{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__poinsot___encyclopedia_of_occult_sciences.pdf","mytitle":"Encyclopedia Of Occult Sciences","mylang":"de"}
THE ENCYCLOPEDIA
o f
OCCULT SCIENCES
Introduction by
M. C. P O I NSO T
TUDOR PUBLISHING COMPANY
New York.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, 1939 AND 1968
Library of Congress Catalog Number 68*58933
MANUFACTURED IN THE U. S. A.
BY CAMS AND HARRIS, NEW YORK.
C O N T E N T S
INTRODUCTION. By M. C. Po i n s o t .........................................................13
The Aim of this Book—Wc must neither Mock nor Disdain the Occult Sciences
before we Know them—The Immense Documentation of the Author—What is
called Occultism, its Origin, its Development, its Sleep and ita Roawaking
during tho lust Century—In how far Occultism is Moral, Thcrapoutio and Divina-
tory—Fatalism, Determinism and Free Will—The Justification and tho
Experimental Reality of Astrology—The Astral Sign-Manual—What is Physio-
gnoraony and what aro its Uses—Tho Planetary Types—Definite Interest of
Chiromancy—Graphology and its Useful Introduction into tho Upper Schools—
Theory of Cartomanoy—Thoughts on Dreams—Clairvoyance and its Marvels—
A Word as to Magic, Witchcraft, Alchemy, the Kabbala, Psychism and Meta
psychism—Attempted Deductions by tho Writer of the Preface himself.
FIRST PART
T h e Div in a t o r y Sc ie n c e s
Ast k o l o o y
CHAPTER 1
45
Historical and General Observations—OpinionofCh. Barlet—Significant Anecdotes
—The Strange Adventure of Lord Finsbury, and tho Death of Tudcsq—Astounding
Predictions (Nostradamus, Cazotte, etc.)—The Planets and tho Determination of
their Influence—Curious Theory as to Planetary and Chromatic Relations—
Mixtures of the Astral Fluids—The signs of the Zodiac and tho Properties of the
Constellations of the Zodiac—The Twelve Houses of the Skv and their Attributes
—Aspects and Cycles—Table of the Decani and their Influences—Tho Lord of
the Hour—General Remarks on Horoscopv—Method of Discovering tho Day of
Birth—Casting of a Horoscope of Nativity—The Horoscope of the Present Day
—Various Astrological Methods, one of which is within the Means of Everybody.
CHAPTER II
P h y s i o o x o m o s y ........................................................ 101
Sections and Short History of this Science—General Remarks and Classification
of Lavater—Table of the “ Ideal Face ”—Short Studies on tho Signs of Power,
on Family and Race Physiognomony, etc.—Small Physiognomonic Table of
Temperaments and Characters—Comparison between certain Animal and Human
Types—Synoptic Tables of Physiognomony—Forehead, Eyebrows, Eyes, Nose,
Cheeks. Mouth, Lips, Teeth, Chin, Neck, Ears, Head, Hair and Beard, Figure,
Skin, Voico, Walk, Movements—Love and Physiognomony. Types of the Best
Husband and tho Best Wife—Morphological Characteristics of Soxuality according
to Dr. Zcnope. Their Importance in Marriage.
Elements of Phrenology—Places of the Faculties in tho Skull—Anecdotes
about Gall—Objections to Phrenology.
Elements of Planetary Typology according to Paul Jagot—The Face is the
Living Translation of the Horoscope—Planetaiy Types according to Physio
gnomony—Table of Chiro-graphological Comparisons.
A coming Science—Digitomancy (Divination by Finger Prints)—Elements
of Psycho-physics according to Louis Gastin.
5
6 C O N T E N T S
CHAPTER m
Cb i b o x a h o t ........................................................................................................148
General Obeervationa and Theory—Chiromancy is in Truth a Science—Scientific
Chiromancy according to Rem and Astrological Chiromancy according to
Deabarolles, Muchery, Jagot, etc.—The Hand according to Louis Gaatin—
Analysis of the Outer Shape of the Hand, the Fingers, the Nails, the Colour and
the Hairs—The Four Types of Hands—Pointed, Square, Conical, Spatnlate—
Other Divisions suggested by J. Leclercq and G. Muchery—The Palm—Fingers
and their Joints. Special Study of the Thumb, the First Finger, the Middle
Finger, the Ring Finger and the little Finger—The Knots of the Hand—-The
Handshake—Cturomantic Geography—The Mounts of Venus, Jupiter, Saturn,
Apollo, Mars, the Moon, the Field of Mam, eto.—The Three Chief Lines of the
Hand (Life, Head, Heart), the FourSecondarylines (Fate, Sun, Health, Intuition),
the Accessory Lines (Small lines a t the Wrist, Ring of Venus, Lascivious Lines,
eto.)—Supplemental Signs in the Hand (Stars, Crosses, Dots, Chains, Branches,
Islands, Forks, Triangles, Bara, etc.)—Medical Chiromancy—Seeming Contradic
tions—Junctions and Combinations of Lines—Luck and the Hand—Adultery
Legible in the Hand—A Specimen Print.
CHAPTER IV
Gb a p h o l o o y .............................................................................................193
Antiquity and Modernisation of Graphology—Conditions of a Graphological
Analysis—Usefulness of Graphology—Its Recent Students, Michon, Deabarolles,
Cr6pieux-Jamin, eto.—Typioal Anecdotes—Method—Reanlte—Study of the
General Aspeot of Graphs (M&rgination, Spacing, Direction, Movement, Height
and Joining of Letters, etc.)—Aspect of Capital Letters—Aspeot of 8maU Letters
—Secondary Aapeota (Accents, Crosses, S top and Punctuation, Initials and
Finals, Signatures and Flourishes). Graphological summing up according to
F. Clergetr—
Influences Modifying Handwriting—Luck and Handwriting—Types
of Writing.
CHAPTER V
Ca b t o m a n c y ........................................................................................................220
History and Legends—Mustwe Believe the Cards T
—Anecdotes and Explanations
—Meaning of the Cards—Colours, Hearts, Diamonds, Spades, and Clubs—Data
of the Daguesah as to the Interpretation—Meaning of the Cards through Number
and Proximity—A Method of Reading the Cards with a Pack of Thirty-two Cards
—Various Solutions (Divinatory, Magical, the Sevens, the Packs, the Aces, eto.).
Taroo considered as a Gams‘—
Meaning of the Major Cards, then of the
Minor Cards—Consultation of the Taroo according to the Daguesah—Consultation
of Taroo according to the Simplified Method suggested by Papus.
CHAPTER VI
O SIRO M A H CY ....................................................................................................... 239
All Nations, at all Times, have Believed in Foretelling tits Future by Dreams—
The Most Famous of the Old Keys to Dreams—That o fArtemidorua of Ephesus—
Some Famous, Curious, or Undoubtedly Premonitory Dreams—Theory of Dreams
(Causes and Explanations)—Affective Dreams and'Intuitive Dreams—Classifica
tions—Egyptian Golden Key (Days on which Dreams are a Good or a Bad Omen)
—Dreams without Value and Real Dream-Oraelea—General Rules as to the
Interpretation of Dreams—a seriously drawn up Key to Dreamt.1
1 I t must be remembered that Taroo appears twice in tills hook and under two different
mw iingaM l) as a game (first part, Cartomancy); (2)as a hermetio synthesis (second part.
C O N T E N T S
CHAPTER VII
7
SHONom D im unom . . . . . . . . . . 267
Instances of (he Innumerable Methods of Ancient Divination—Omens and
(hone who Believe in them—Natural Omens and Artificial Omens—Tables of
Apantomancv (Omens from what is Seen, what is Received, what is Done)—
A HandfulofProverbs—Special Omens—Intimate Reckoningof Women according
to the Amia—Oracles—Principal Means of Questioning the Future by the Inter
pretation of Lines made by Coffee Grounds, Molten Lead, etc.—Short Statement
of tiie Main Oracles—Coffee Grounds (substituted for the Magic Minor), White
of Egg, Molten Lead, Shells, Pins, Paper, Gems, Steam, Smoke, Picking of the
Daisy, eto., etc.—A Little Manual for Lovers.
Elements of Onomancy—Theory of the Influence of the Word, hence of the
Personal Names given to Children—A little Onomantio Dictionary (Meanings
of the most usual Personal Names of Men and Women).
Cloirvoyanoe—The Theory of Boirao as to Metagnomy—Foutastio and yet
Conclusive Experiments—Theory of the Aura—Payohometzy—Clasalo Story
of the Watch which Speaks—The Most Remarkable Mineral Phenomena called
"G am ahts”—Sensitive 8tones.—Attempt a t Explanation.
SECOND PART
T h e M a g ic a l S c ie n c e s
CHAPTER i
PnEMHiXAttr ............................................................................ ......... - • 305
W hat is Magio 7—Quotation from Jollivet-Caetelot—The Geographical Movement
of Magio—The Great Magi—Magio Persecuted—Cryptography, Secret Magic
Writing—Definition, Explanation and Distances or Esoterism—The Episode
of the Terrestrial Paradise and the Symbol of the Egyptian Sphynx—Another
Explanation and Classification of Magic by Pierre Piobb, Barlet, Jagot.
CHAPTER H
Low Ma o ic ......................................................................................................... 311
W itchcraft and its Records—The Sabbath and Ha Extravagances—Trials for
W itchcraft and the Sadism of the Judges—W itchcraft among Savages and
Peasants, according to Lombroso—Various Thoughts on Witchcraft—Storehouse
and Formula of Low Magic—Abraxas—Amulets and Talismans—Magic Rings—
Magic Armour—Divining Rods—The Enchiridion—Bewitching by Hatred and
by Love—Quotation from Dr. Legu6—Conjuring Books—Miraculous Herbs—
Ancient and Modern Magio Mirrors—Mandragora—Necromancy mid Compacts
—Pentodes—Perfumes, Philtres and Charms—Domestic and Medical Formula
of WHchoraft—Satanism—Spells—Vampirism.
Good Luck and Bad Luck—Presents and various Articles bringing Good
Luck or Bad Luck—Luoky and Unhioky Days—Cledomanoy (Fatidio or Conjuring
Words)—Thoughts on Luck—Fetishes—Good Luck ana Chance—Luck ana
Great Men—Luck and 81ander.
The Language of Flowers—Charm of Flowers—Legend of the Origin of
8alems—New Dictionary of the Language cf Plovers.
8 C O N T E N T S
The MagioofStones—Table of Symbols and Qualities ofGemsaccording to the
Radnaparika of Buddhabhatta—Table of the Properties of Precious Stones
according to Fraya—Another Table of the Symbolism of Gems.
Symbolism and Influence of Colours.
Modem Magic or the Employment of Hyperpsyohical Forces—Classification
of Hyperpsyohieal Phenomena according to P. Jagot—Constitution of Man
according to the Occult Doctrine, and Attempt by Means of this Theory a t an
Explanation of Ancient and Modem Magio—Individual Magio or Paychis—
Traditional Magic—Employment of the Hypernaychioal Forces—Relations
between the Planets and the Various Elements of Nature—Rational making of
Talismans —
The Calling Up of Spirits—8tudy of Witehoraft according to the
Data of Modem Black Magio—Explanation and Possibility of Reproduction
of the Most Astounding Marvels of W itchcraft—
Proved Acte of Witehoraft
Recorded in Judicial Bodes—Other Stupefying Tales related by Ely Star—
The Speaking Stick, the Man who Slept for Twenty Centuries, etc.
Small Complementary Lexicon of Magio.
CHAPTER H I
Al o b b x y ..................................................................................................................38ft
Alchemy is neither the Stammering of Chemistry nor a Worn-out Science—The
Theory and its Followers—Alchemy and Kabbala—Alchemy and Therapeutics
—Universal Panacea, Philosopher’s Stone and Palingenesis—Two Newspaper
Articles showing that the Ancient Alchemists were not so Stupid as to Believe
in the Creation of Ufa and the Sure Transmutation of Metals—An Extraordinary
Discovery—Super-Radium,
CHAPTER IV
H io h Ma o i o ........................................................................................................398
Alchemy,the ConnectingLink through its Illusionswith LowMagio and through its
Kabbahstic Principles with High Magio—What is the Kabbala ?—Short Outbreak
of Bad Temper against the Ignorant and the Stupid—Main Kabbolistio Ideas—
The Occult Power of Numbers, 8ecret Relationships, the Law of Analogy, the
Powerof UnknownFluids, the Realm of the Wood,etc.—Kabbalistio Explanations
of the Prophecy of Ezekiel and of the Apocalypse—Other Kabbalistio Methods.
The Mystery of Numbers—It has Always Struok the Nations—Some
Pythagorean Ideaa—The Review of Numbers—The Unit, the Binary, the Ternary.
The Figure Seven, most Fatidic of All, eto.—The Ternary Key according to
P. Piobb—Is 13 an Unlucky Number t—Anecdotes about the Number 13 and
about Fridays—Curious Historical Notea as to the Number 14—From 14 to 100
—More QuaintThingsaboutNumbera—Kabbalistio Practices relating to Numbers.
—How to find the Important Dates of a Life—Table Showing the Result of a
Competition—The .Hand of Fatima.
Taroo, Kabbalistio Key, Synthetic Summing Up in Pictures of the Ancient
Occult Science—The Basio Idea of Taroo is Universal—Obscure Origin of Taroc
—The 8acrod Word of Taroo according to Papua: Iod-He-Vau-He (Evohe,
Jeovah)—Relationship, according to P. Piobb, between the Hebrew Alphabet,
the Loaves of Taroo, their Meaning, their Astrological Sign and their Sym bol-
Study of the 22 Major Arcana—Study (especially according to E. Picard) of the
08 Minor Arcana divided into their Four Groups—Taroo Reminds of Theogony,
Androgony and Cosmogony—Taroo may also be Studied from the Astrological
Angle, tile Basio Angle, the Kabbalistio Angle, the Dlvinatory Angle—Chief
Occultists who Studied Taroo.
C O N T E N T S 9
THIRD PART
T h e Me t a p s y c h ic a l S c ie n c e s
CHAPTER I
F r o m Ma q n b t is ii t o Sf i b i t i s m .............................................................................443
Definition of the Metapsychical Sciences—Their Interest—Their First Aspect—
Magnetism—Mineral, Animal, Human, Terrestrial, Astral Magnetism—Short
History of Magnetism down to its Condemnation by the Academy—Its Reinstate
ment—From Mesmer to Braid, and from Braid to Richet—Hypnosis and
Suggestion—Psyoho-Magnetic Therapeutics—Scientism, the Healers—The Theory
of M agnetism-Stages of Magnetisation, Somnambulism and Exteriorisation of
Sensitiveness—Fabulous Experiences of Colonel de Roehas—Theory of Dual
Personality and Apparitions—Study of Somnambulism, Hypnotism, Clairvoyance
—Conclusive Anecdotes and Experiments—Reference bade to tile Explanations
concerning Magio Mirrors, Coffee Qrounds, Cartomancy, etc., studied in the
Light of Hyperpsychism—Telepathy, Foreknowledge, eto.—A Word on
"M iracles’’—The Reality of the Soul.
Phenomena of Mediumship (Turning and Talking Tables, Knocks, Auto
matic Writing, Displacement of Artioles, Apparitions wnioh can be photographed,
eto.)—The Spiritist Doctrine—The Thesis of Reincarnation—There is no Death
—Prudence is Necessary in the Study of Spiritism.
CHAPTER n
Co n c l u s io n . Tb b Co mb io Rk l io io n —El eme n t s op Th e o so ph y - . - 4 6 8
The Soul and the Perisprit (Outer Soul)—Neither the Supernatural nor Chance
exists—Principal Laws of the Doctrine of Occultism (Laws of the Ternary, of the
Series, of Involution and Evolution, of Relationships, of Signs of Support)
—Astral Body and Astral Plane.
Teachings of Theosophy—Triple Certainty of the Existence of God, the
Immortality of Man, the Justice of Karma—Superior Morality of Theosophy—
Qod and the Logos—That which Springs from the Logos and Returns to the
Logos—A Few Observations—Quotation from L4on Denis by Way of Epilogue,
APPENDICES
No t b I. Th in k in g An i m a l s .............................................................................477
Nora II. Se c r e t So c ie t ie s . . . . . . . 479
No t e III, Hb x a o r a m m is m ..............................................................................- 483
Nora IV. Hu a i-m m .......................................................... 487
Nora V. Mo d e r n Dis c o v e r ie s Kn o w n t o t h e An c ie n t s - • 492
Nora VI. A Re g e n t In s t r u c t iv e En q u i r y .................................................494
I N T R O D U C T I O N
" It is a sottish presumptionto disdains andcondemne thatfor
false, which unto us seemethto beareno shewoflikelihood or truth :
which is an ordinariefault in those who perswade themselves to be
of more sufficiency than the vulgar sort. So was I sometimes
wontto doe, and ifl heardany bodyspeahe,eitherofghostswalking,
offardellingfuture things, of enchantments, of witchcrafts, or any
other thing reported, which I could not well conceive, or that was
beyond my reach—
Dromes, magihe tenors, witches, uncouth wonders,
Night walking sprites, Thessalian conjur’d thunders—I
I could not butfede a kind ofcompassion to see thepoors and seely
people abused with suchfollies. And now l perceive that 1 was
as much to be moaned myselfe: Not that experience hath since
made to discerns any thing beyond myformer opinions : yet was
not my curiositie the cause of tt, but reason hath taught me, that so
resolutely to condemne a thingforfalse and impossible, is to assume
unto himselfe the advantage, to have the bounds and limits of Gods
will, and of the power of our common mother Nature tied to his
sleeve: And that there is no greater folly in the world than to
reduce them to the measure of our capacitie and bounds of our
sufficiencie. If we terms those things monsters or miracles to which
our reason cannot atiaine, how many such doe daily present
themselves unto our sight? ”
Mo n t a ig n e .
I N T R O D U C T I O N
I
Th e author of this Encyclopaedia has begged me to tell the reader at
the very sta rt of the Introduction which he has been good enough to
ask of me, th a t it does not constitute a complete treatise of the sciences
called Occult (this would require ten volumes a t the least), nor will
it be found to be new to the “ initiated.” I t is a popular compendium
having for its main object the collection in one volume, easy to read
and convenient to consult, of the facts and theories in the numerous
special treatises which relate to each of these sciences.
I t is because his work has been th a t of popularising and not of creating
(according to his account at least) th a t tne author has desired to remain
anonymous, and straightw ay I congratulate him on having so well
succeeded w ith this vade-mecum which the scholar, the woman of the
world, the m an in the street, the priest and the little m aidservant will
have on their table, like a dictionary, or a cookery book—a “ perfect
secretary ” in fact. The task which I have before me is a t once less
difficult and more delicate. Although in more than one passage our
anonymous author shews originality, expresses his opinion, discusses,
and sometimes sums up, nevertheless he asks me to explain beforehand
w hat in fact the occult sciences are, to state their connection w ith one
another, to relate briefly their general history, to try to explain them
shortly, and, finally, to shew their usefulness.
This then is w hat I propose to attem pt in a few pages—to shew why
these sciences, which are no longer “ accursed ” and which less ana
less remain “ occult,'* form a whole which is venerable owing to its
antiquity, curious owing to its tradition, solid owing to the idea which
binds it, disturbing owing to its methods, marvellously interesting
owing to its discoveries; why above all these too much disdained
sciences form an indispensable complement for the so-called official
sciences which they strengthen in parts and in parts contradict; why
they rise again vigorously after a long sleep ; why they provide thinking
people w ith an excellent foundation for tnc conduct of life ; and why,
finally, they enable a road to be found to a new kind of belief which
is free from those dogmas, rites and puerilities which drove us away
from the worn-out religions; and why they bring a consoling serenity
to souls torm ented by the riddle of F ate and the afterm ath of D eath.
13
14 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
II
Before carrying out, to the extent of my modest knowledge and
my humble reflections, this perhaps ambitious plan, I should like
first of all to draw attention to tne immense interest of the occult sciences
and of the Occultism which is their synthesis, for is it not m y duty,
before speaking of them , to attract to them a notice which is refused
to them by many through simple ignorance of their object and of their
justification ? How many in fact mock a t Astrology, Alchemy, Taroc
or Chiromancy, even a t Graphology which is surely as easy to understand
as it is undeniable in its results! To how m any does not the word
“ Occultism ” suggest solely ideas of w itchcraft or charlatanism , of
secret or forbidden practices, or a return to Paganism, or even of obscure
and dreaded Satanism I
Ignorance, y es; whence actually disdain, mockery, fear, sometimes
indignation. B ut, whether Occultism loses itself m the labyrinths
of Magic, or concerns itself w ith Spiritualism, it is a t bottom only the
study of natural phenomena which are, however, in the main understood
and explained (although Physiognomony and Graphology are within
the reach of all) only by our hyperphysical senses, by w hat Paracelsus
in one word called the sixth sense. The occult sciences quite am ply
explore, farther than is usually done, the immense realm of the Visible
and the Invisible, still so rich in mysteries. And Occultism sums up
and binds into one whole this super-science traduced by many learned
men or honest educated people because it upsets those who are content
with U niversity manuals, or because it has often been exploited by
tricksters and charlatans.
B ut was it Christ’s fault th a t the Temple was defiled by “ traders ” ?
Is it the fault of the chemist if a scamp becomes a poisoner ? Is it
the fault of Occultism if there are false horoscopes and cheating fortune
tellers ? One of the merits of the present book, I hasten to point out,
is th a t it carefully distinguishes between the true, the possible, and
the more or less magic trickeries quoted simply by way of reference.
A fter having read it I think the “ distinguo ” necessary between argu
m ents and dap-trap will have been established.
F irst of all then let us know what Occultism really is. When we
know th a t we may still keep on the defensive, and even resist its teaching,
for Criticism insists on its rights, and Intelligence varies according to
tem peram ent; but we no longer smile. And th a t is one point gained.
A second point. Occultism is worth studying. N ot only is it not
childishness reduced to formulae, but it is a real science which has
been explored by hundreds of great minds, true scholars, lucid and
cultured seekers, conscientious experimenters, serious writers. I am
anxious to reassure the reader, in this connection, as to the reliability
of the inform ation of this encyclopedia, which is not a mere compilation
consisting of the compressing of a dozen or so of old books bought
second-hand. I have seen the piles—and I m ay say the hundreds—
of volumes consulted by the author and signed by the m ost respected
and best known names in this particular P antheon: Papus, Lion
Denis, Eliphas L^vi, Jollivet-Castelot, Gabriel Delanne, de Rochas,
Myers, Annie Besant, B arlet, Chouasnard, Pierre Piobb, Johanny
B ricaut, Ely Star, Desbarolles, Durville, Rem, Gastin, Jagot—I om it
some and I forget m any and these not the least im portant. References
also load up the foot of more than one page. A n d l make the following
observation:—
There is a catalogue by A lbert Caillet, called Bibliographical M anual
of Psychical and Occult Sciences, in three volumes, containing each
more than six hundred pages of two columns, and which contains only
the title and a summary of the subject m atter of the books published
on these questions. I t bears date, I believe, of 1912, and names about
twelve thousand volumes. To-day this num ber m ust be nearing tw enty
thousand; it is surely a sign of a preoccupation from which we can a t
least draw the conclusion th a t if such subjects had no intellectual
and even scientific interest, they would be allowed to fall into forget
fulness (whereas they arouse an increasing interest) a t a period when
less and less tim e is spent on simple curiosity.
And if I add th a t hundreds of well known men—doctors, em inent
writers, scholars, professors—have pledged their intellectual honour
by signing the greater p art of these articles, it will be agreed, I am sure,
th a t Occultism—the renascence of which during the last half-century
remains undeniable—has in fact entered forgood and all into our spiritual
I t has entered this field so thoroughly th a t it has established a
connection w ith official science on more than one side. The U niversity
has not yet dared—and L£on Denis strongly complains of it—to open
to students the field of high Herm etic sciences. B ut already experi
m ental psychism shows increasingly the work of men whose signatures
are followed by learned titles and degrees. Already an International
M etajisychical Institute, founded by Dr. Gelay, a t present under the
direction of D r. O sty, has alm ost the standing of an Academ y.1 Already
the Sorbonne and m any serious halls are open to lectures on sciences
longbelieved to be more or less demoniac.
The door is opening. . . . The whole of Occultism will one day
pass through.*
* And I do not mention other private organisation of the greatest interest: The Institute
of Or. Btrillon, rue 8oint-Andr6-aee-Arta, that of L. Gastin, for Psycho-Physioo^ roe des
Aqennins, etc.
I N T R O D U C T I O N 16
16 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
III
It will pass through because, old as the W orld and sure to last as
long, it renews itself from generation to generation; it adapts itse lf;
it is alive. Therefore it will live, whenas orthodoxies rebellious of
rejuvenation risk death. We will now cast a glance a t its history. I t
will shew us the birth of its Tradition and how great minds of old made it
m ajestic, kept it alive and embellished it, how great minds of the present
day refine it, reduce it to its essentials, and infuse it with perpetuity.
Under other names, no doubt (but w hat m atter?), Occultism is con
tem porary w ith the first human musings, and the son a t once of the
eye which observes and of the m ental process which compares and
deduces. When the keepers of flocks, as soon as the tam ing of certain
animals and a coherent trend of thought were known, studied the
stars and mused over the various events and discoveries of their own
existence, saw therein many connections and analogies, and inferred
therefrom certain beneficent or maleficent influences of the stars on
the E a rth ; when, later, men still more watchful and more intelligent,
tried to formulate a complete scheme of N ature and to draw up a
science founded on observation and intuition, mistaken here, guessing
aright there, they were already producing Occultism in so far as they
studied phenomena by this sixth sense of which we spoke ju st now,
and which they were careful not to neglect, so as to place a t the service
of the desire for knowledge all possible resources of the physical and
intellectual being.
B ut it is mainly a t the tim e when specialised philosophers built
up their knowledge in a monument the door of which they kept care
fully closed to the layman, th a t Occultism, under the synonymous name
at th a t tim e of Esoterism, deserved its name, occvUum in Latin meaning
hidden, esoterikos in Greek meaning inner.
Under esoteric section, writes Johanny Bricaut in a short pam phlet
giving the essential of w hat it is necessary to know so as not to talk
nonsense in speaking of occult sciences,1 the Alexandrian and Greek
philosophers understood a kind of class selected from amongst their
best pupils, and in which they gave their most abstract teaching which
the ordinary disciples would not have been able to understand. This
esoterism survived in Christianity during the first centuries by means
of initiates who, under the name of Gnostics, gave considerable support
to the new religion.
B ut it m ust be remembered th at what was special here to m editer
ranean countries, was general in all inhabited parts ofthe globe. Every
where where there were Magi there was secret (or esoteric) teaching
for selected disciples, public .(exoteric) teaching for the layman.
1 First Elements of Occultism (Librairie du MagnStisrao, 23 me Saint-Merry).
17
As regards Christianity, as it became popularised, the laym an con
tented himself w ith th a t p art which was exoteric, legendary, easy to
grasp, and the number of initiates, who took the spint instead of the
fetter, keeping the true sense of the sublime teaching (also given, it
will be observed, esoterically, by means of parables, by Christ) tended
to dim inish . The masses took the upper hand and in their turn had
their priests, superficial like themselves. The initiates were persecuted,
hid themselves, formed secret societies. During the Middle Ages,
when the name “ Occultism ” first arose, they added to their doctrine
all kinds of profound teaching drawn from the Gnosis, from Magic,
from the K abbala, sometimes no doubt introducing into it some in
dividual conceit. They were easily charged w ith heresy and w itchcraft.
The Church, which had built for itself an official gospel science assuredly
different from the true one, could not endure them. For which reason,
in order to hide the secret science, the surviving tradition, they used
a language particular in its style, its w riting and its signs, a secret
language apparent in the “ grimoires,” but this stratagem did not always
enable them to escape the vindictiveness of the Church.
These initiates, these occultists of the Middle Ages are numerous,
known in spite of all, for m any of them all the same succeeded in rising
to im portance, a t least by work of other kind. O f such are Reuchlin,
Agrippa, Paracelsus, Cardan, Postel, Fludd, etc. . . . Of such were
in the Seventeenth Century, Van Helmont, Sifesius, Poiret, in the
Eighteenth Century, Swedenborg, from whom derive the greater part
of the Societies of Occultists andIllum inati of the N ineteenth Century.
And then, little by little, Occultism, if I may say so, decanted itself,
reached those high syntheses adorned by the new m asters whose names
I mentioned ju st now, and to whom m ust be added Stanislas de Guaita,
P^ladan and other Mmodem Magi,” whilst on the one hand arose
the Spiritualism of an Allan Kandec, the Theosophy of a Blavatsky,
particularly imbued w ith a moral idea coloured by religiosity, on the
other hand a group of men desirous of giving to the renewed Tradition
an entirely scientific guise.
As for myself, I think I observe a triple current in Occultism, arising
from the best p art of the three great human bodies of the w orld: the
spiritualist current, in the main American, the theosophical current
coming from the ancient East, the European current with realistic lean
ings. And how this accords w ith temperaments, Jhere more attracted by
the extraordinary (Spiritism was bom in America towards the middle of
the N ineteenth Century) there more attracted by mysticism and moral
ity (Theosophy arose out of the religious ideas of India), elsewhere more
attracted by exactitude 1 . . . W hat would be most interesting, w hat is
to be desired, and w hat the author ofthis book seems to look to in the end,
is an harmonious fusion of all these tendencies into a contemporary
I N T R O D U C T I O N
18
Occultism which would be truly universal, and like a new and definitive
religion for a H um anity which in other m atters is on the road to
internationalism .
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
IV
We shall in a moment reach the main divisions of Occultism, b u t
from the general point of view of its utility we m ay already observe
its triple aspect—moral, therapeutic, divinatory—an aspect which
it has always definitely had.1
To be Moral Occultism rightly claims by preaching the constant
perfecting ofthe Individual, both ftom the pointofview ofhis intelligence,
of his self-knowledge, and from the point of view of his behaviour. I t
rightly defends itself against the twofold accusation of official Science
and of the Church, which shows it as deforming the mind and the heart.
W hether we believe the spiritualistic or theosophical doctrines or not, it
is impossible to pretend th a t their theories are immoral. And then the
hypothesis of successive lives, so rich in arguments as to conduct, and
which a t all times formed part of the occult mind, in the W est as well as
in the East, and which m ight perhaps be one of the bases of the universal
philosophical agreement of which I spoke above, is one ofthe m ost noble,
m ost just and most consoling hypotheses ever known. In any case in all
the serious occult books (I ao not allude to the very particular studies
and to the very narrow realm which relates to Black Magic and to Satan
ism, which are anyhow so obsolete) I have never found anything but
a magnificent effort at spiritual uplifting.
To be Therapeutic Occultism also claims (in spite of the Hippocrates
who are unbelieving or jealous of its competition), and claims to relieve
and heal physical ills in its own way. As I am less fam iliar w ith this
section, I do not insist, but simply think th a t if it is right in other
respects, it very possibly is also right in this respect. H as a sufficient
number of facts been checked? Have statistics been drawn up?
Everything depends upon this, for here it is no longer a question of
discussion, but of proof. Let us confess it, it is deplorable th a t the
Medical Profession, instead of fighting, mocking, having recourse to
the Courts, where we have seen cured patients give their testim ony
in favour of the “ healers ” against the doctors who attacked and had
not cured (enormous paradox!) does not seek a common ground so
as to adm it into its fold, after a normal exam ination and serious enquiry,
colleagues who have for their diploma a past of successes.
Divinatory finally. This is the part which mostpeople deny in public
through fear of ridicule, although many secretly consult seers and
Pythonesses of the palm or the card. I t is also the part which m ost
1 In addition, of course, to iU philosophical aspect.
interests a public more easily lured by the trouble of its little
affairs of the heart or of cash than by the need of higher thought.
I t is equally the delicate point on which it is necessary to throw light
and make distinctions, and round which the author of this book has
collected the largest num ber of instructive pages. A fter having gone
through these there will be no more room for doubt, provided we
understand correctly. And the point it is necessary thoroughly to
understand and to remember is th is: th a t the divinatory arts are
deductive or intuitive. D eductive: Astrology, Physiognomony,
Chiromancy, Graphology. In tu itiv e: Clairvoyance, Cartomancy,
Oniromancy.
The deductive divinatory arts are the safer, being founded on observa
tion, dem onstrable, in one word scientific in the ordinary meaning of
the w ord.1 The others require more reserve, but they have in their
favour so considerable a num ber of proofs th a t we are compelled to
take them into account.
Thus tw o points of view suggest themselves: the first is th a t we m ust
look upon prophecies rather as possibilities than as certainties. The
second is th a t we m ust take prophecies as being subject, after all, to
free will.
The Ancients believed too much in a blind, immovable Destiny ;
hence their idea of Fate, although a t the same tim e we m ust not forget
their old saying: astra declinant, non necessitant. The stars predispose,
incline, but do not compel. And is not the hermetic commentary
on Leaf V I of the Taroc, Liberty or Compulsion ?
Besides Fatalism is confined to the E ast. If it were real it would
bind the life of each one into a rigid mould from which no one could
escape; it would paralyse every effort, every initiative, every activity.
As the contrary is common sense and current experience, it would
seem futile to dwell a t length on a theoretical discussion of this subject.
And besides it is not certain th a t the Koran is a t bottom so very fatalistic,
seeing th a t it counsels him who w ants to go to sleep to hobble his
horse ! If fate were inescapable, would Mohammed tell his disciples
to beware of theft ? I t seems to me th a t Fatalism is a frame of mind
rather than a m etaphysical dogma.
The W esterns have* reduced Fatalism to Determinism, thus softening
an iron law. Determinism, like Fatalism and according to reason (the
profound reason of Occultism, as will be seen) teaches the inescapable
concatenation of phenomena and events. B ut it leaves to man, facing
the two roads, the choice, which is common sense. B ut the choice
once made, the chain of consequences follows inevitably, unless, a t
cross-road after cross-road, the will intervenes in order to bring back
' But do not all sciences go in for prophesying ? Meteorologist, doctors, etc., practise a
deductive divinatory art based on their observations.
I N T R O D U C T I O N 19
20
F ate into the desired ro ad ; and what gives the illusion ofthe inescapable
is the fact th a t veryfew beingsreact, not w ithout surprise, and not w ithout
lam ent th a t destiny should follow a course contrary to their desires.
And many more put “ on the back ” of w hat they call chance the
ill luck which comes to them . In tru th there is the unexpected in life,
b u t never chance. The Occultist denies chance as well as the fatalistic
anankS. H e only believes th at from his birth a kind of im petus is
given to man by natural forces, some of them astral, others due to
heredity, others due (if the theory of reincarnation is correct) to his
form er yieldinss to good or evil—and th a t a t the same tim e man
receives a will (differing, it is true, in its intensity in various individuals,
b u t which may be educated), a will capable of modifying his fate.
To look for the signs of this destiny, th at is the task of the sciences
of deductive divination. Hence their potent interest.
B ut since it is not forbidden to study phenomena and the future
still more deeply, since it is a very noble' use of the mind to seek to
fathom the riddle of the universe, the Occultist is also interested in the
intuitive divinations which are so rich in extraordinary proofs, in the
personal psychism the study of which gives excellent results, in the
arcana of Magic and Hermetism, in mysterious forces of all kinds, in
one word, which demand an attention which the superficial mind is
not willing to give.V
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
V
Let us now put some order into these ideas; let us sort th em ; let
us distinguish the various branches of this enormous and many thousand
years old baobab of an Occultism, the roots of which go down to the
earliest strata of human thought.
I t would be difficult and idle to ask here for a chronological order
of birth. The occult sciences were bom quasi-simultaneously in the
night of ages where their respective origins are lost. Some no doubt
have become systematised in modem times, such as Physiognomony in
the Eighteenth Century,Chiromancy and Graphology in the N ineteenth.
B ut whilst in the judgm ent of the Polytechnician Choisnard truly
scientific Astrology is still in course of evolution, although in its tradi
tional form it goes back to the highest antiquity, yet the reading of
the character and of fate by means of facial characteristics and of the
hand is very old. B ut it should always be remembered—and I said
above how alive is Occultism—th a t in reality some of its chapters are
new, such as for instance spiritualism , hexagrammism, psycho-magnetic
therapy, psycho-physics, hypnotism, etc. I say new, but better would
be “ renewed,” for the Ancients knew many tm ngs which appear to us
new only because for a long tim e they were lost or badly understood
among the secret knowledge of yore.1
I t is therefore w ithout assigning to them any date of origin th a t I
shall make a rapid survey of the occult sciences, beginning w ith
Astrology.
And u I begin with Astrology, this is not due to the mere affectation
of a dem onstrator defending a theory often derided and which collides
with the incredulity of a mass of persons who have no other excuse
than their total ignorance of it. I t is due to the certainty th a t it is
one of the keystones of Occultism, as I shall try to explain in w hat
follows.
Yes, Astrology is still derided to such an extent th a t the mere word
raises the laughter of many, bringing back, recalling the famous
fable, the old man w ith long beard, gown covered with stars, and
pointed cap, fixing on the sky his horoscopic telescope. W e m ust
adm it th a t charlatans have considerably discredited it, as also the
authors and publishers of various almanacs and pam phlets ridiculous
as much by their covers as by their context, lowering and traducing
as they please a science m ainly empirical but yet of the greatest interest.
To be sure astronom ers in the m ain also deny it. L et us answer
them a t once w ith Paul Flam bart,* a m athem atician of the first order
who also is no stranger to Astronomy, th a t Astrology is an experim ental
science : it is not only dem onstrated, it is proved.
And its proofs, in thousands, abound in the course of the centuries.
I t would therefore not require a theory as its basis, it would require
it no more than the fact th a t light is brought by the sun. All the same
for our own satisfaction we shall sketch out such a theory.
I t is summed up in two w ords: astral influence.
Is there, or is there not, an astral influence on things, on persons,
therefore on the inhabitants of this E arth ? T hat is the whole question.
If 'here is none, Astrology crumbles. If there is, then the utm ost th a t
could be done would be to criticise the interpretation thereof by
Astrology, only to try and correct th is ; and then it becomes impossible
to understand the ostracism which it suffers a t the hands of the
Academies, even ofthe dictionaries, all of which define it as “ a pretended
science which, &c. . . .” and of the U niversity which omits it from its
programme.
For this influence does ex ist; and the strangest thing is th a t no
one thinks of denying it, whenas by the m ost curious of contradictions
the science which studies it is rejected.
Does any one dream in fact of doubting the influence of the sun,
in the course of the twelve m onths of the year, on the flowering of
plants, th e reproduction of animals, the health of man, of doubting
* See the appendices. * Pseudonym of Mr. Paul Cbouasnmd.
I N T R O D U C T I O N 21
22
the influence of the moon on the tides, on the m enstruation of women,
on Plants ? The peasants know all about this, be assured of it.
The astronomers themselves recognise the connection which exists
between the solar rhythm and the meteorological jphenomena of the
earth. One of the most rebellious of them, the Abbe Moreux, the head
of the Observatory of Bourges, writes th a t the electric fluid em anating
from the sun m ust exercise a certain influence on our nervous system ;
he observes th a t children are more irritable during tim es of solar super
activity, and th at certain patients are then liable to attacks of
rheum atism , neuralgia, even anger. B etter still, he goes so far as to
think th at this aggravation of the solar forces may possibly influence
diplomats and provoke armed conflicts, and he draws up a curve of
these solar excesses and of their correspondences, as regards France,
w ith its periods of war 11 Is not this pure Astrology ?
The Abbd Moreux, who likewise accepts the influence of the moon
(it would be difficult for him to put it in issue) thus finds himselffollowing
Saint Augustin who did not deny heavenly influences on the exterior
variations of the body; Saint Thomas who adm itted these influences
even on the faculties of intellect and volition; the great Eliphas L£vi
(Abb6 Constans) who wrote this remarkable paragraph:—
“ W hat is the Universe if not a group of magnetic globes which
attract and repel each other ? The beings produced by these different
globes (for the idea th at the planets are inhabited is very old) share in
their peculiar magnetism, which is balanced by the universal magnetism.
The spectral analysis of Bunsen has made it possible to distinguish
the classes of magnets, and has thus given a scientific basis to the
ancient intuitions of Astrology. The various planets of the solar
system therefore necessarily exercise a magnetic influence on our
globe and on the living beings which inhabit it. We drink in all the
aromas of Heaven mixed with the spirit of the earth and bdm under the
influence of the various stars.” 2
Thus Christians need not fear th a t they are sinning by studying
Astrology, for they have Fathers of the Church w ith them, and numerous
priests devote themselves to it, for this science is in no way in conflict
w ith the F aith.3 And as has just been seen, there is no reason whatever
for rejecting the influence of the planets if we accept th a t of the Sun
and the Moon. The excuse of distance would not be an excuse in
principle, for in Astronomy the law of attraction rules over formidable
distances. Nor would the excuse of error suffice by reason of the fact
■ Article in the Keene i t VOueet, October. 1020.
’ Tbo Grand Arcane.
• Tho astrologer Luc Qaurio vas bishop and theologian. In a carious letter from Canon
Brettes to M. Choianard, which the latter quotes in Influence aetrale et probabiliUs. it is stated
expressly that the Pope hae no hostile feelings whatever against Astrology.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
th a t Astrology was ignorant of Uranus and N eptune although it felt
their existence. A science is not suppressed by the fact th a t new
elements are discovered in i t ; it is for us to study these and to find
out their functions.
B ut the reality of astral influence is not a mere peculiarity which
m ay be observed here and there (such as for instance the connection
observed in India between lunar phases and fever crises). I t results
above all from the great universal harmony which has convinced us
from the beginning th at a law of solidarity exists between things ju st
as a law of concatenation exists between phenomena. This Law of
solidarity, Ely S tar tells us, exists as well above as below hum anity,
as well among the stars as among the lower regions. Man, the synthesis
of creation, reflects his Universe to which the E arth belongs. The
microcosm which he is finds itself inevitably influenced by the
macrocosm w ith which he remains in sym pathy.
If it is objected th a t persons born a t the same instant ought then
to have the same character and the same destiny, we shall reply in the
first instance th a t in fact they have points of character and therefore
a possible future in com m on; but th at other influences also (heredity,
education, will, etc.), are added to the astral influences, thus modifying
them sufficiently so as to vary their destinies. Astrology in fact
shows only the natural inclinations of the person and their consequences.
I t is the science of causes, not th a t of invincible necessities.
One word m ore: astral influence is a t bottom only a vibratory
mode comparable with the influences of heat, light, electricity, X -rays,
etc. Our organism, which (we m ust not forget it) has an immense
sensitiveness, is in correspondence with this particular m agnetic fluid.
Calculate the m agnetic state of the sky a t the mom ent of a birth,
deduce therefrom a horoscopic scheme, such is in short the justification
and the m ethod of Astrology.
B ut is it possible thus to arrive a t an irrefutable accuracy? L et us
exaggerate nothing. The m atter is very delicate. I t would not,
theoretically, be impossible, by ascertaining w ith meticulous care this
state of the sky, the exact place, a t the moment of birth, of each planet,
and calculating not only the strength of the influences, but the com
binations and resultants which they form by uniting or repelling each
other according to the aspects among themselves of the globes which
produce them . In reality only approxim ations are arrived at. This
is why scientists like Selva, Caslant, Chouasnard, etc., bring in the
theory of frequencies and the calculation of probabilities.
In their opinion and in th a t of their com petitors who w ant to replace
an occult or divinatory Astrology (called forensic) by an Astrology
modem, resolutely and definitely scientific, w ithout a t the same tim e
denying the sound basis of Tradition, it would be necessary to try
I N T R O D U C T I O N 23
24 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
and ascertain by sound statistics the correspondence of astronom ical
factors and hum an faculties, and thus replace coincidences, however
numerous, by law. And when a vast list shall have been drawn up
composed of comparative statistics of non-arbitrary frequencies, we
shall end by knowing thoroughly the general and the individual
influences of the various stars.
This list is to some extent still in its first pages. I cannot go into
it more lengthily, nor into the law of astral heredity, and I refer to the
tw enty or so volumes which Mr. Chouasnard alone has w ritten on his
astrological ideas. Happy to be able to state that, defended by minds
of his quality, and provided th at it perfects his methods, Astrology
in any case remains a very real science, I declare th a t it is impossible
to erase it from the table on which are inscribed its sisters, Astronomy
and Meteorology.
Another very interesting method of raising and resolving the astro
logical problem w ithout passing through formidable calculations and
trying cabbalistic means (as is done by Ely Star) is to seek by experim ent
—or by availing ourselves simply of tradition and the labours which
have modernised it—w hat is known as the astral sign-manual.
Morphological sign-manuals correspond with psychological charac
teristics. And this tilings us to Physiognomony.
B ut there are two methods (which however support each other)
of practising Physiognomony. One, entirely analytical, consists of
the accumulation o f isolated observations, and their classification
into summary tab les; the other synthetic, based on the general
principles of Occultism and deriving from Astrology.
Of the first m ethod I shall speak later on. B ut let me state a t once
th a t the second method arrives at the same results, which shows clearly
(and this ends my pro-astrological dem onstration) th a t everything
takes place as if Astrology were demonstrable, even supposing it were
not so.
Yes, there does exist on every thing, on even' being, a sign-manual
of this mysterious Unknown whom we call the Creator, N ature, A stral
Influx, or in a more moving word the Unknown God. Yes, there do
exist hum an types which can be classified otherwise than in accordance
w ith Geography, classified according to a law occult, undeniable,
form ulated and proved since olden times. W hether we apply the
purely physiological physiognomony of Lavater, renewed by Gastin,
or the planetary typology of Ledos, the morphology of the present
day, the astrological chiromancy of Desbarolles or the experim ental
chirology of Rem, the usual graphology or intuitive synthesis, the
results are the sam e: we arrive a t a sign-manual which may w ithout ob-
S
* ction be called astral, were it only for the sake ofsim plicity oflanguage
u t I repeat, this simplicity is the expression itself of astrological truth.
And this sign-manual is, in the words of Decrespe, the exact total
and the proportion of the various planetary influences received during
the tim e of pregnancy. So th a t a t the moment of birth we receive
a particular vibratory tonality, we are formed in accordance w ith
certain physical and psychic activities. And it is this which constitutes
our Destiny.
The theories of heredity and of regionalism (influence of latitude,
clim ate, geology, etc.), do not suffice, however true and im portant
they m ay be, to explain this sign-manual which, as I have already said,
fits in quite well w ith free-will, as the will is also a p art of the innate
gifts and inheritances. Do these inheritances proceed from one or
more previous lives ? Occultism says yes. I do not here attem pt to
solve this im portant problem ; I merely draw attention to its potent
interest.
And how this sign-manual is also found in the whole of N atu re!
Think, for instance, w ith Stanislas de G ualta1 how the sight of the
octopus, the scorpion, the crocodile produces a premonitory horror,
how the felines and the birds of prey bear the stam p of ferocity, b u t a
ferocity which is not impressed w ith the m anifest im purity of the
spider, and possesses the kind of nobility w ith which the w arrior tries
to adorn him self.8 Consider the appearance of tru th of the greater
p art of poisonous plants, mushrooms,8the datura w ith its livid flowers,
the henbane w ith its repulsive scent, the euphorbia w ith its corrosive
sap, the hemlock w ith its suspicious rustiness. . . . Strindberg has
w ritten a superb page on the m oth called D eath’s-head, the caterpillar
of which does in fact feed on the toxic daturin and solanin of poisonous
plants, on certain vegetation which actually smells of death (such as
arum and orchis) and attract insects which feed on carrion. There are
even minerals which sometimes bear the “ sign-manual ” were it only
the hard silex and the friable grit, but better still, showing sometimes
bizarre shapes, portraits, landscapes engraved on the flat or deeply,
and for which some occultists claim, in the case of the “ Gamahds,”
th a t this is not always the result of simple chance.1
This universal sign-manual which Paracelsus himself has eloquently
described in his so savoury m edieval French, he and others have tried
to study it so as to rediscover the fundam ental principles of the silent
and sublime tongue of the creating word. This sign-manual, proof*
* La CUJ d» la Magic noire.
* Especially the ancient warrior, who believed more strongly that he had a sacred mission.
Observe in this connection how the sculptor has always tried to indicate “ warlike nobility.”
* No doubt it will be objected that the difficulty of distinguishing good from bad mush
rooms invalidates the idea which in addition is only dealt with here very summarily. But it is
for the expert that the poisonous mushroom has a “ nasty appearance " which ho, more observing
than the layman, discovers easily.
* I refer to the very curious note on Garaahes which will be found in this book.
I N T R O D U C T I O N 25
26
of the analogy of the appearance of beings and their deep nature, it
is in short the actual basis of Astrology and its substitutes.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
VI
And th a t is why, on consideration, there is in the arrangem ent of
an exposition of the occult sciences, a certain order which the author
of the present Encyclopaedia has observed: Astrology a t the base;
then on the astral sign-manual, three systems for its discovery in Man,
(a) by Physiognomony, (b) by Chiromancy which a t bottom is but
physiognomony applied to the hand; (c) by Graphology, which is the
result of tiie chirom antic sign-manual. These four sciences constitute
as I have said, the deductive divinatory arts.
I f it is possible to claim with Mme. de Thebes, Mme. Fraya, Rem,
and other chiromancers, th a t in order to read the signs of the hand
it is in no way necessary to have any connection w ith Astrology, if
the graphologers do not even use one word of the astrological vocabulary
(of which, however, there is a traee in purely physiological chiromancy),
this is quite correct so far as results are concerned. I t is no less true th a t
the Occultist is notwrongeither who, w ith a higher, more synthetic mind,
connects all these sciences among themselves, and even w ith the intuitive
divinatory sciences, and even with Alchemy, Magic and the metaphysical
sciences, for thus he obtains a vast and marvellous whole, constructed
like a spacious religious doctrine—a true cathedral where harmonyreigns
from the solid pillars of the base to the m ost delicate sculptures of the
summit.
For the Occultist in fact the Universe is summed up in Man, the
macrocosm governs the microcosm, the astral sign-manual is inscribed
everywhere—on the face, on the hand, in the writing—the secret and
sacred tongue exerting itself to say w hat m ust be said when we approach
whichever part we like of the vast domain of knowledge.
We can therefore now in all logic talk of physiognomony.
Physiognomony is not only tire study of a being through its
!>hysiognomy, as the layman believes, although the etymology is clear
phyais—nature; gnomon—who knows), but really the study of a
M ine through the whole of its outward appearance; from which it
would seem to follow th at Chiromancy is included in it in principle,
although it has been detached from it owing to its im portance.
Is it necessary for me now to justify Physiognomony ? I t does
not in fact enjoy the bad reputation of its m other Astrology. I t
may be currently observed. Who amongst us is not a physiognomonist
when he says of some one th at he has “ a fine ” or “ a nasty ” head in
the ethical sense of the word ? And do we not in the same way practise
27
instinctive astrology when we speak of people “ who are bom under a
lucky star ” or “ who always seem to be in the moon ” ? W ho in
short has not amused himself in the same way by studying passers-by
in order to try and guess from their appearance their soul, their social
position ?
According to evidence there are aristocratic faces (apart from any
title of nobikty) and plebeian faces, the mug of the drunkard and the
pretty face of the born amoureuse, the healthy face of the active man,
the mask of the brigand, the m ajestic type, the face of the judge, the
domestic, the soldier, the priest, the scholar. I t is true th a t the dress
helps a little ; but m ost certainly the character leaves its m ark on the
features. I t was only necessary to study, to classify these outward
marks in order to constitute a science. The idea was old, but the system
had to be organised, and this is w hat the famous Lavater attem pted.
B ut where Lavater, Delestre and other physio-psychologists stop,
the Occultist does not stop, and saturated with Astrology, he in his
turn say s:—
“ These signs-manual of the stars, you notice them w ithout using
the w ord; you say th a t a man is choleric after you have examined his
face ; I say th a t he is so because he was bom under the maleficent influence
ofMars. In short we are agreed, but you are satisfied with the observa
tion, whereas I go back to tne causes. And is it not much more interest
ing to try and guess th a t the subject will be of a choleric disposition
if ne is bom under such or other particular magnetic aspect of the
Sky ? N ot only is this more interesting, but this alone will be useful,
for if to the birth certificate there were added a horoscopic certificate,
the educational task of the parents would be rendered considerably
easier.
Thus, since, I repeat, everything takes place in accordance with
astrological data, even if they are not demonstrable, m ay we not also
accept the theory, intelligent, practical, of the planetary typology ?
I t m ay be adm itted w ithout mysticism, as was done by Paul Jagot
who chew up the series of these planetary types in accordance with
modernised tradition, and pointed out the correspondence of the
morphological signs w ith the physiological, pathological, psychological,
chirological and graphological characteristics, adding prophecies deduced
therefrom as to the norm al destiny of these types.1
And coming back to the pleasure, of which I spoke ju st now, of
watching people, I will confess th a t there is nothing more attractive
than to sit down on the terrace of some cate and to lose oneself in this
occupation, to analyse by a glance, which with practice becomes quick
and sure, the passers-by whose revelation is clearer still if they in
*See his different books: TraiU d a Sciences Occulta tid e la Magic pratique. Let Margee
rcodatrica du D atin, etc. (Drouin, publisher.)
I N T R O D U C T I O N
•rpAv an} u mo siq 3ui)Bm3aj
jo X)qiqs aq) puu jaAiod aq) sassassod ‘auissoa m 3jq b Stnsiusoooj
jo aureS siq) sastpujd oq.VL aq puy •pau&s si 3uiq)AJ3Aa ‘psqjuui
si 3tnqjXj3A3 ‘aq Ann )i jaAa)Bq& )n g uBfoqas b aqq snouas pun
tremoM. b aqq afpiaS ‘adX) snuaA-oujn)Bs b ajaq) i qsup i>paq)‘
s s q)iAt
omuqqmba [B)uam d[qoa b Suiuiqtnoa adX) treraoqodB-ouajidnt b ajaq)
! saiipsaS qomb piiB snojatunu'qjut ‘pijaaBjS pire afddns )a i ptre uaiui
apaSjaua jo ‘a<LC) ireunojani-opreui b ajaq : saiauapuaasB {Blip iire)j30
ajSiratuasip o) sasXpsuB ui )jadxa u b jo j ajqissod si ) j •suopBoqduioa are
ajaq) sXb mjb Xpreatf 'a isj are Xaq) Atouq j jo j*‘saXa Xin ajojaq ssud
Xaq) j i Xqarq si ) j *sadX) {b j)sb paugap qaM. are asaq) Xpux
„-joop
3)UAud b Xq aj)Baq) SounoqqSpu b o)ai sao8 aqs ajaq) j q y *)qnop
)noqjiM )Si)JB amog *pa)Uioa are sjaSiig jaq p ay •ssaasnonjdrqoA
pmsuas X pjpua pun appmuB u b s io jjiu i j ib )ua8qp)ui Xprej y
‘paaopjodojct qaM.)nq *8iq)6fl[ -ssiq b jo j sqsa ipiqM Atoq s.pidn;)"qtrejj
b qatis qjiM. q)notn uostnua b )uqM. pire ‘auqmbB Xpqsgs Xjs a ‘asou
aissBp b ^BqM „ *3tn| ajtui b jo sAiOjqaXa Japan saXa pachrqs naM Xq dn
)q si ‘punojs a)iqM b no quid ‘aasj p*AO J3£[ -saAjno pK)i)dqp ui qu
si aqs asnsaaq )iiq *X)ireaq $otqB) )noq;iAt sacLX) snua^ are ajaq) jo j
‘X))aid pira u bu io m. b st aqs asiisoaq yra ‘adX) snua^. aq) si aqg *onq
sAioqoj ubuioa v y •Xjqamb sqjBAi jb m . jo )auu[d aq) jo uos aqj,
«*w » p
)uapiA b jo o3is aq) png sdsqjad ppioqs j pireq siq )B paqoo[ j j j
•XpAuaq passoja's,) aq) q)tM. 8ui)UMpuuq piqiAi ‘uug B soq aq ajns are
X *auo soq aq j i ajui siq' X)td'o) pauipui uiu j pun *)aajoiA sduqjad
‘a)BUOissBdsi aq inaj j *uia)8jo pauqdiasip ‘aAi)Bquioa aq o) linq aSpnt j
*ajaqMauios jaaaqredap b jo praq jo u b u i ssaaisnq b s i aq' jaq)at|Av
*X3a)Bj)s[Bn)adi3d b jo )sisu o d )snui ajq s ij j ‘)Boa Xrejqiiu b ‘saAjasap
)nq ‘jb 3m )ou saop a jj '-qoo[ preq b )b iim j adX) uViqjBjq y „
—: sdq m q) ‘asou dreqs ‘paaqaioj
SurpaoajqjiM. ‘aauj jo arenbs ‘diq aq) ui )joqs pire Xpoq aq) ui 3uo[ ‘asqa
JBpiosmu X)jaq b s i nnq Stn&oqoj :Xq sasssd iremaiag aq) )n g
(/adX) JBniq aq) jo [Bnirein-iidis aq) sreaq a jj -jaduia) jo
S)g SBq aq )Bq) ‘3aiqaABj) saqq aq )aq j :pian) ‘quaAt ‘3a i)b u i3b u ii s i
a jj *|b u i3u o ‘jouijsipui 'an3ojoapi ‘aiqBUOissaiduii aq )snra ‘paaStsai
pun aAissod suiaas a jx ' ’pasnjaoa* pire )ua{opai are s)uataaAOtu s ij j
•aoioA i'BJ)nau pire )jos b q ju i sqrods a g ’sdq qaiq) q)iAt ‘pasop
Xg>Bq ‘quins si q)nom aqx "ssauinreaip ‘XjoqaiiBjain q )u i padarejs
‘saXa 3uiptu)Ojd pire puno)j ^qSin aq) jo jsqs aq) s b pidtsni ‘qnp
‘ajtqja. aouj y ‘sapjia jo sjuaniSas'ui qB “
pnaq snotma b s i )B q iM
—: Snutoqoj aq) sb
qans ‘noX ui asire sambo|qos jjoqg *smoX JBau ajqB) b jb ao)s am )
S 3 0 N 3 I 0 S 1 ' i a O O O 3 H J r 8g
I N T R O D U C T I O N 2 9
V II
As I have said, Chiromancy is, forthe Occultist, the astral sign-manual
contained in the hand. B ut it is not necessary to believe in Astrology
in order to believe in Chiromancy. In the same way as Chouasnard
wants to arrive a t a scientific Astrology, so Henri Rem wants, and he
says it himself, to “ disoccult ” Chirology. He is entitled to do so.
We are entitled, while respecting his method and adm iring his work,
to remain in our doctrinal atmosphere which arrives a t the same con
clusions, but m aintains the link of harmony above pointed out.
Let us note, however, th a t the disocculted Chirology keeps various
astrological term s, such as the mounts of Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury
or Venus, the line of the Sun, the plain of Mars, etc. I t is true th a t
it looks upon these merely as words for which it is inclined to substitute
those of m ounts of the index, the middle finger, the ring finger, the
lines of health, of intuition, of fate, etc. All th a t has no im portance.
The main thing is th a t Chirology (which includes the traditional Chiro
mancy and Cmrognomony) has to its credit, just as has Astrology, a
considerable number of proved observations which, even if they do not
rest on a valid theory, make it an actual science of great utility.
B ut there is a clurom antic theory, whether we base it on Occultism
as being applied astrology, whether we take as its foundation, with
Desbarolles, the animal electricity which is peculiarly noticeable in
the hand, or relate it with L. Gastin to psycho-physics. Once more,
one thing only counts—the amazing frequency of the correspondence
between the chiromantic elements and tne tem peram ent, the fate of
the subject. This frequency has been observed for centuries, and
constitutes owing to its repeated experience an empirical proof of
alm ost indisputable value.
Wishing to have all my doubts removed as to this science still so
little shown to the open daylight, though considerably followed in
tiie silence of the consulting room, I called some tim e ago on one of
its best known exponents—Mme. Fraya. Having questioned her
as to her art, she told me th a t she did not care for theories, and was
satisfied w ith the readings, so numerous in her own experience th at
they were for her alm ost a certainty. W hat seemed to me extremely
Interesting in this woman of great position and ofthe highest intelligence
was th at she adm itted to me th at she was continually advancing,
owing to her specialisation in the m atter. Thus it is th a t she found
out in the end the relativity of the sign of length in the life line, where
by tradition, length was looked to alone as index for the length or short
ness of life, and she also found the importance of the colour which
in the same hand can change so as to foretell serious events; it is in
this manner th a t she foresaw, shortly before the W ar, the imminence
30
of a great catastrophe when she was astounded by the unusual colour
of the many palms which she then had before her eyes.
If I quote these details, it is in order to show th a t Chiromancy also
is alive and not petrified in a hackneyed collection of rules of which
the memory of the ordinary fortune-teller m ight too easily make use.
G reat powers of observation, judgment, memory, intuition, and a
long experience are required to become expert. Of this expert know
ledge a woman like Mme. Fraya who is consulted (I whisper it very
low, don’t go and repeat it!) by persons very highly placed in the
political world . . . and by others1 gave a formal proof on the
day when she took part without fear in the following experim ent:
She was asked to examine a certain number of schoolchildren who
in turn held out their hands to her through an opening in a curtain
which hid the faces whose too expressive features might too easily
have allowed her to list them psychologically. Purposely the most
diverse types of children had been mixed, gentle, nervous, studious,
stupid, vicious, intelligent, lazy. The m aster himself knew them
thoroughly, and noted down the accounts of the chiromancer who
rapidly analysed each hand, saying what this exam ination revealed
to her as to the temperament and the abilities of the subject; and
she was right in the proportion of 87 to 100.
After this it is difficult to believe th a t an article in the Code forbids,
so I am told, the exercise of Chiromancy under threat of punishment,
ju st like a swindle. I confront the judges with the testim ony of facts.
And I confront the sceptics with this demonstration of Henri Bern:
If science is a co-ordinated collection of exact observations, of actual
facts relating to a principal subject, observations and facts being linked
by a general theory which must account for all the observed phenomena,
if it is by observation, experiments, comparison and analogy th at
scientific experience is gained, then we have the right to say th at
Chirology is a science, since its deductions flow from experience acquired,
from the examination and the classification of the facts so th at it is
possible to establish a correlation between the signs and the facts and
to draw therefrom conclusions both inductive and deductive.
This is all right as far as it goes. B ut w hat may be brought up
against Bern ana his so remarkable book* is th at as*a m atter of fact
he keeps only to experience, to correlations and deductions. I see
1 Anyway I need not be more disoreet than the interviewers. 1 find in Ptychica tho
account of a visit by U. Gaudeletto to Mme Fraya where she herself recalls among a thousand
other recollections, thatshe wasable to foretellto U. Malvy,Deputy, his rise to ministerialrank,
the scandal in which he was to be involved in about his fortieth year, his exile and his return—
to Bolo Pasha (but here in a vision, at a meal given by him), his fall and his tragic death—
to the sister of William II in May, 1014, the war and its final result for the German Emperor,
etc. EvidenUy therefore this chiromancer is intuitive and possesses gifts of clairvoyance.
* ll'ial it Revealed by the Hand. (Publisher, Albin Michel.)
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
in it no trace of induction. He does not go back to the causes. How
could he do so otherwise than by connecting Chirology w ith Astrology ?
By “ disocculting ” as he says the science which he loves, he robs it
of its head, of its explanation. T hat is why I think th a t Desbarolles
is superior to him . B ut Desbarolles1 is confused, disconnected, full
of hors-d’oeuvres often long and unnecessary. Modernised, cleared
of dead wood, condensed he would be perfect. This it is th a t men like
M. Muchery and M. Jagot are trying to do, and it is the spirit which
governs th a t p art of the present book which is devoted to Chiromancy.
V III
To defend Chiromancy either from its physiognomonic or its
divinatory point of view was not heroic. To defend Graphology is
alm ost a commonplace. There is here still less w itchcraft or dem onism!
I t is so simple although delicate, so sure although disdained by un
pardonable ignorance and im penitent scepticism i And yet Graphology
has become actually official in the hands of experts called in to judge
forgeries in w riting. How can it be denied in its principles and its
conclusions ?
The handwriting, it is the hand translating—or betraying—the soul,
disclosing its character and consequently its abilities. B y the side
of the astral sign-manual, or rather as the result of this sign-manual,
the graphic sign-manual. Never do they belie each other. W hy do so
few people consult it for the secret of the tem peram ent of their children,
or their relatives, or their connections? And if this is a true and
em inently practical science, why is it not listed in the U niversity
programmes, and especially in those of the High Schools ? Is it not
w orth as much as arithm etic or history ? If I t helps to govern our
own life to the extent, which is considerable, in which it is connected
w ith others, is it not as necessary as the knowledge of the extraction
of cubic roots, or th a t of the Pharaohs of the twenty-second D ynasty ?
I was speaking of High Schools. I am surprised th a t they do not
teach this Graphology1 which would be so useful to the m asters to
enable them to distinguish the qualities and faults of their pupils.
Thus little by little generations would be formed who are quick to
appreciate the qualities of others. How much public m orality would
benefit from this, as th e trium ph of evil is mainly due to the hypocrisy
of the wicked and the sim plicity of their victim s!
And this further point occurs to me as following on the four great
deductive divinatory sciences:—Would it not be an excellent thing,
* The Myuterits 0
/ the Maud. (Publisher, Gamier.)
* And also psycho-physics, so hclpiul to good teaching.
I N T R O D U C T I O N 31
34 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
disuse. This one survives. The mystery of this survival has an in
disputable value.
And Dreams ?
First of all we must distinguish, as will be seen later on, between
emotional dreams, due to some organic affection, and intuitive dreams,
without any pathologic cause, these latter only being connected with
Oniromancy. Mme. de Thebes, who was so expert in this particular
divinatory art, said herself that it was necessary to limit them to ten
per cent, at most of the total number of nocturnal visions. But those
ten per cent, sufficed to convince her of their premonitory truth, always
provided they were not asked for more than a general meaning devoid
of details.
It is probable that dreams belongto the realm of what Occultists call
the outer mind, that is to say the fluid outer cover of the soul, distinct
from it, and which never sleeps. They are connected with forebodings.
Besides, if in some psycho-physical conditions (such as hypnosis)
human beings arc capable of foreknowledge, why should not sleep be
one of these conditions when premonitory perception manifests itself
by means of more or less symbolic images ?
X
There is yetanothermost interesting kindofdivination: C lairvoyance,
whether it is produced by psychometry, the magic mirror and its deriva
tives, or by the simple contact of the hand.1
We know what psychometry is—this extraordinary power possessed
by some persons “ to perceive the fluid impregnations of astral things,
persons and images which remain in the aura of things and of persons.”
We cannot argue about it. It is a strange but real phenomenon proved
by many experiments made in this connection. Papus explains it
thus:—
“ It follows from this phenomenon (tested hundreds of times) that
every thing may carry around it an invisibly written history. The
same thing applies to the human being. Every one of us carries around
him a radiance invisible to the human eye, but perceptible to the
trained mind. Inscribed in this radiance in the shape of pictures are
the most important results of our thoughts and our actions. In
accordance with Tradition this radiance is termed the a u ra , and there
is an a u ra for every principle. Thus there will be an aura ofthe physical
body, of very small extent, an aura of the astral body, an aura of the
mind. It is this last which was recognised by religious tradition
surrounding the heads of saints and divinities with halos. It is thanks
to this radiance of the three principles of the human being that we can
>M. do Flouriero, lengthily studied and tested by Dr. Osly, works in th!» manner.
explain many seemingly strange phenomena, such as sudden sympathies
or antipathies, intuitions, and so-called unconscious previsions, etc.”
Clairvoyance is also produced, as we have said, by means of a special
magnetised condenser of the astral plane term ed the Magic Mirror,
of which our author speaks in connection with the Arsenal of Magic,
ju st as he speaks of the visions seen in coffee grounds in the chapter
dealing with divinations of the second degree. And I quite understand
the reserve which he shews here ; but perhaps he ought to have dealt
separately at least w ith the psychometry which has been tested by
experiments.
Our author, it is felt, gives but a limited belief to these divinations
of the second degree. Y et ne describes conscientiously, not the hundreds
of ancient methods which are nearly forgotten, but those of the Kabbala
(such as onomancy, tarom ancy) and also the oracles, the prophecies
which prove th a t the secret influences of this radiance govern many
of our states of mind.
And here also we skirt the mysteries of presentiment, of telepathy
which evidently belong more to those studies which relate to the
metaphysical sciences. And why should wc not have these subtle
forebodings ? Have animals not often a sure instinct which warns
them of danger ? W hy should man be deprived of a sim ilar faculty
when he nears strife, death, events of the first im portance? How
strongly we sometimes apprehend the Future! How m any soldiers
during the war had in advance the certainty of their im minent death 1
How many people have the intuition to go or not to go here or there,
to do or not to do such or such a thing 1 Strange power of vague pre
vision 1 Kind of obscure voyance. L et him explain who likes. The
Occultist, who does not believe in chance but in the mysterious forces
of N ature, finds his thread of Ariadne in the extreme sensitiveness of
the outer m ind from which, it m ight be said, fluid antennae spring,
draw out and grasp the future.
L et us sum u p :—
Even though he m ay not be able to explain it until the m ighty and
subtle forces of N ature, the constitution of the Universe and of the
human being are better known, yet through the accumulated experience
of the centuries it is possible for man to know by the aid of Astrology
the initial inclinations of his life, and by the aid of Physiognomony,
Chiromancy and Graphology, his temperament, his character, the
possibilities of his destiny. Another group of sciences, more vague,
entirely intuitive, but likewise based on the experience of centuries
enables him a t any period of his life to control its direction. Whence
it follows th at it is better to discuss these m atters than to smile a t them .
The value of this book lies in the fact th a t it helps us to consider them
in an atmosphere of lucidity and good faith.
I N T R O D U C T I O N 35
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
X I
And now we arrive in the midst of the strange but moving medley
of the magical sciences. I confess th at in these chapters I have not
merely been taught a mass of things, but I have also learnt to be less
surprised at things in which I used to see nothing but superstition or
childishness, to respect certain rites whose high symbolism I have come
to understand, to think more deeply over things and deductions which
formerly were for me only dim visions guessed a t through scattered
or hasty reading or by intuition, and to strengthen my old resolution
always to leave the window of my mind open to unknown winds.
Always for instance I had been impressed by the secret meaning
of numbers, by the certainty of the existence of human magnetic
currents, similar to other vibratory methods of the ether, by the
probability of the unity of m atter, by the enigmatic but definite value
of prophets and great leaders of men such as Moses, Solomon, Christ.
. . . . And th a t is why there was such great interest for me in the
study of the Kabbala, of the riddle of numbers, of the power of the
Word, of Alchemy, of W itchcraft, of High Magic, of Hermetism. Veils
covering fabulous horizons were torn. The sacred texts of religions
became illuminated. The voice of Ezechiel rose from the depths and
commanded my attention. The Apocalypse lost its obscurity. Moses,
Buddha, Christ and very many others grew in my sight, sublime initiates
who had seemed to me superhuman w ithout m y being able to explain
it, and whom yet I refused to acknowledge as gods. The old Wisdom
arose out of the mystery and became a harmonious and magnificent
Temole. In short Occultism dazzled me by its truths, linked together,
as I have already said, into a huge and solid synthesis, sim ilar to some
great tree from which one may with right pick off some dead leaves,
out which, driving its roots nght down to the foundation of human
thought, raises towards the sky its branches in which are built the singing
nests of hope.
Here I am no longer called upon to vindicate, and our author himself
has undertaken to explain. I can therefore only draw attention to the
moral greatness and the intelligence of the pages devoted in this book
to the magic sciences. However, I note th a t the classification adopted
is in no wise obligatory. I know of two other possibilities a t least,
but this is unim portant if everything th a t has to be said is in fact said.
Here is for instance a different statem ent of the problem of Magic,
given by Pierre Piobb in his well known Formulary:— 1
In lus opinion and in the words of K arl du Prel, Magic is but
“ unknown natural science.” And this science includes Astrology,
Alchemy and Magic properly so called, Astrology dealing with the
• 1 Pormulaire i t Bautc-Magit (publisher, Dvagon).
celestial bodies in their nature and movements, Alchemy with m atter
in its essence and evolution, Magic w ith fluids or the fourth state of
m atter, so far but little known because A ntiquity cared less for demon
stration than for observation and deduction. In other words Astrology
is the science of causes, Alchemy or hyper-chem istry the science of the
evolution of m atter, Magic or hyper-physics the science of fluids.
As for Paul Jagot, he starts out from Psychism and its manifestations
which, closely studied for more than half a century, have verified the
general principles of Magic. He classifies and explains its m anifestations
—extenorisation of sensitiveness and m otivity, perception of m atters
situate outside the senses, telcpsychics, division of personality. He
describes the constitution of Man as seen by Occultism and his threefold
correspondence w ith the Universe. He shows the power of thought
and how it m ay be used in personal Magic.
“ The work of Fabred’Olivet, Saint-Yves d’Alveydre, B arlet, Papus,
Stanislas de G uaita,” he says, “ has shown clearly th a t N ature, explored
by the scholars of A ntiquitv in a manner differing from ours, yielded
to them the secret of certain laws which they were able to apply, of
a class of forces barely suspected by the m oderns; in short th a t they
succeeded in discovering the interaction of divers cosmic causalities
and to erect on the foundations of this knowledge a doctrinal synthesis
a t once ethical, metaphysical and experimental—the fragments of which
modem occultists seem to reconstruct.”
Passing from individual Magic to traditional Magic, P . Jagot shows
th a t the latter introduces new elements into the former and inclines
to collect various cosmic currents so as to obtain effects desired and
corresponding to the nature of each of them . Whence it is necessary
to know planetary relations, the best moment for the collection of the
fluids, the attracting graphisms and the condensing substances. Then
comes the application—preparation of talismans, evocations, w itchcraft
(enchantm ents, possession, etc.).
Thinking th a t there is, on the one hand, a definite link between
Magic and the K abbala, on the other hand th a t it is im portant from the
point of view of Occultism not to forget Alchemy, th a t further there
is an obvious connection between magical practices and the hermetic
doctrine, the author of this Encyclopaedia has thought it better to
divide the second p art of his book into three chapters, dealing
successively w ith Low Magic, Alchemy and High Magic.
W ithout wishing to attach a derogatory meaning to the first of these
titles, he includes m it everything th a t relates to w itchcraft and his
store of formulae, recipes, bizarre preparations, sacred articles; also
Satanism, necromancy, potions, charm s; further he deals w ith luck,
cledomancy, fetishes; finally he brings us a “ language of flowers,”
the symbolism of stones, etc. I t is a curious collection of inform ation
I N T R O D U C T I O N 37
■nnapg smatdng
otj} ‘jCqdoeojnid jo jionntu sq^ oj dn osti qpratj pm ‘sojeiinn otnoooq pm ^rasqow
©I no nsd J»p>| pinoo oqMaiotrajSaq atf) jo ooaotoa oqj 'datajsig 9tf} Ajuo s b a XqsimoqD ,
‘piJ°A\. aqj jo Bapi puauad b psq oqAt sjsijjnoao ‘suspisXqdBjain ajbav
Xaqj qB aAoqu putt uaqj puy 'Oja ‘sjBjatii jo suoijBagtpoui otdojqoqo
uiBjqo ‘saauassajuinb uio jj saipauiaj aAtjoajja XjSuipaaaxo ‘ajurejS
Iraq? lapjBq sauojs pqagtjjB ajjsui pptoa Xaqj i XBp-04 jsoj are qaiq.tt
aqnuzjoj Atauq Xaqj i siiaqj 04 aSpaiAtooq ppts 04 si auop udaq ssq jisqj
Ijb pun ‘jssaj j b jjBd ui’tXjjsiraaqa Atatq sjstmatpiB aqj qjwt ui3aq oj;
•Xjjsiuiaq;)jodsq aqj siXmaqafy jBqj Xbs 04 ‘ajojajaqj‘joxia ub si j j
<
t*puBq ut pireq qp?At 04 spiBMiajjB
sb os jaqjo qasa mot pm Xaqj ajaqAt juioa dmjaam b sn spajaioj jobj
XjaA siqj pus ‘pxBMctn tnojjoq aqj uioijjajjBf'aqj ‘pjBAtUAtop doj aqj
uio jj sipoAt jauuoj aqx *paaiBi<uca aq Xbui sul ioj sji jo apnjtjpiui aqj
qoiqM. jo stream Xq aouBjsqns b ‘ajdptiud juaoBfqns b si aiaqj jaqjaqAt
uoijanpuiXqjaAoasip04saujpussuuofaqjsaipnjsjajjB[aqj !uoissaidxa
sjijo j X[uosuuojaqjojsqoojpusaftjsaipnjsX(juanbasuoajauuojaqx *jps
-jtsjsajiuumajq qatq&qSnojqj suuoj aqjSuuuasqoXq ppoj^ aqj saipnjs
jajjuj aqj snaiaqAt ‘saAjOAa tptqAt ajq aqj jo juiodptrejs aqj jb jpsji
SuiaB[d Xqppo^V aqj saipnjs jauuojatp jBqj si Xnp-ojjo aauaiagaqj pus
jssd aqj jo aauaiag aqj uaaAtjaqaauaiagip pjoaurepunj aqx „—'•juBsag
amuy jospjoAvasaqj 'snuogsjt puoaft7 Jouotfnioag 9i{£ moij uotjB^onb
aiaui b Xq XjqSnoi 41 upqdx'a 04 sb os ‘jsBa[ }B jaqmamai sn *ja^
•ssaujSBA pus qjdap sji jo uosBai Xq W aqj
usqq. ssaj jo u aaom 3uiqjou papeo ‘pjotqdosopqd X{sno[[aAiBm ‘saauaios
jo aanaias aqj si 41 Xjqaaj ut sBaiaqAt u ppS jo Suc^
bui „ aqj jaafqo sj i
io j SuiABq jjBjaqajm jo qaixj b Xjuo 4; ui aibs oq.w. (Biogjadns oqj pus
4UBJ0iiSiaq4XqXiuo papuap si Xuiaqoiy 4obj jo jajjuui b'sy -suoissnastp
XqjSuaj 004pus paureaf 00404mSuuajua jo jbdj jo j 40Uaxep pun'a3xB[ua
04 aqq ptnOAi au *asBa jb pi si jsipasdopXaug aqj 4Bqj paj oav ajaq
jng '*oi3bpi qsig pus mo^ uaaAvjoq AJBipauuajui sb aas[d S
41 aqaj
ub3 siqj Avoq sAtoqs JoqjnB ano pun ‘Xuiaqafy uo sAtopoj aa^duqs*y
•043 ‘•04a ‘4
jB ja q 041.it j o sasBD Xu b u i j o u o i4BU B[dxa a q j u o
5 aioj aqj 04 qonui os pps soqspaj uo ‘qoiq uo Sassasip jo uo issiuisubjj
aqj pun spads uaa.itjaq Xjijbiiuiis oq; uo 2p[0 jo apnjund aqj uio jj
papuaasap qjiuj ut q40q ‘aaijosid snoid b jaqjo aqj ‘tusiusifedjo jusmuaj
b ouo aqj ‘sairejnclBos pun s4ajmuB uaaAtjaq 'aatrejsui jo j ‘X
3o[BU
B aqj
uo pres aq pfnoo qonui Atoq jng ‘pjnsqB aqj ptre afqnqojd aqj ‘aiuj
aqj uaaAtjaq auq aug b AtBjp 04 aiqissoauii si 41 sasBO Xubui XiaA uj
'uoijsaSSns-ojnB* jo puiq b mojj jo ‘uoijijsj'adns mojj paaooid 04 raaas
sjaipq amog *oja 'uoissassod jo Xjqiqissod aqj ‘sjo jjiui diSbui jo stream
Xq aouuXoAjo Xjqiqissod aqj sb qans ‘jaajjoo aq 04 pajjiuipn are sjobj
amog *joojd ‘aabj ‘jsaj ‘uouajuo jo uoijsanb b aq ja3uo{ ou ajaq ubd
ajaqX *miq 04 sjBaddB qaiqk jjnd juqj joaps piAt auo qosa qaiqAt mojj
s a o N a i o s i i n o o o aHJt se
of M atter and of Life, and were thus anim ated by a spirit of synthesis
which is lacking in the m ajority of our laboratory scholars who are more
and more specialised.
The hope expressed by the great theosophist Annie Besant m ust
be preserved. G reat minds like Poisson, Jollivet-Castelot, etc., have
taken up Alchemy again under the more appropriate name of Hyper*
chem istry. In the same way there is in course of creation a Hyper-
physics, which goes beyond the usual researches and penetrates into
the world of unknown forces, so rich in surprises and instruction.
I do not say th a t it is necessary to go back to the whole of ancient
science. B ut by clearing its undergrowth and keeping above all its
wonderful spirit, by linking it up with the modern discoveries and
theories, it seems to me th a t it should a t last be possible to erect the
monument of True Science, the basis of definite Philosophy, or better
still, making together w ith it but one great indissoluble and sublime
whole.
I N T R O D U C T I O N 39
X II
Ancient Science, ancient Wisdom, High Magic,K abbala,Herm etism ,
Taroc, a t bottom they are one w hole; they are the adm irable attem pt
a t the understanding of the Visible and the Invisible of great minds
who no doubt did not know all th a t we know, but who also knew m any
things which we no longer know. These words ought no longer to
evoke merely bizarre and childish stories of sorcerers. They m ust
come to evoke a moving chapter of Man’s intellectual adventure, an
attem pt at an explanation of the Universe, marvellously interesting
and by no means worn-out.
I t has been tried to substitute for this explanation, sometimes no
doubt believed to be too daring, another, altogether analytical, m aterial
istic, so-called daughter of Exactness and the Critical Mind. F ar be
it from me, who had very marked determ inist leanings, and inclined
to the belief in nothing after life, to deprecate the achievements of
our scholars during three centuries. B ut I cannot forbear noticing
w ith L£on Denis th a t they have allowed the G reat D oubt to continue
in existence, whilst the Church, with its categorical bu t insufficient
affirmations, and attacking both the old occult tradition and the official
Science, although imbued with the former and pretending to make
use of the latter, has placed itself in a state of m anifest inferiority.
These two enemies, allied against the third thief of Knowledge, have,
whilst fighting each other, weakened for a long tim e their intellectual
fulfilm ent of H um anity; b u t now we find them compounding w ith a
tradition renewed by a rising free fine flower of intellect which m ay
well one day trium ph over the double obstinacy of the Laggards.
40
And this fine flower is attenuated neither in quality nor in quantity.
The Metaphysical sciences have conquered hundreds of important
nam es: doctors such as Charcot, Dariex, Louys, Geley, Bemheim,
Baraduc, Osty, Flammarion the astronomer and Lombroso the criminal
ist, William Crookes who discovered thallium and invented the radio
meter, the physicist Oliver Lodge, of the University of Birmingham,
who gave us the theory of ions, Russel Wallace, the President of the
English Society of Anthropology, the great Barret, of the University
of Dublin,' the engineer Varley, Duclaux, head of the Pasteur Institute,
the geologist Barkas, the chemist Hare, Professor Myers, the philosopher
Boutroux, and Bergson himself. . . . I quote purposely haphazard
names well known in various scientific departments, and I pass over
hundreds, these having come to me at the point of the pen, and I keep
back even eminent men like Delanne, Denis, Papus, Peladan, Gualta,
Kardcc, Leadbeater, Cailld, Nus, S£dir, Marc-Haven, lest they be accused
of partisanship. Yes, leaving on one side spiritists and theosophists
and keeping only to those who are convinced metapsychists, it seems
to me that these thoughtful, lucid, unquestionably upright men con
stitute a very honourable company for those who advance with a
firm step towards new horizons.
I do not wish to unclose the third part of this book where will be
found these names and the experiments, the hypotheses, the certainties,
the theories which are for ever connected with them. I t is devoted
to these metapsychic sciences which compel us to reconsider the
problems of death, the soul, the beyond. Neither the University nor
the Church, the one with its scepticism, the other with its mysticism,
has given us any tested solutions. To them I prefer the conclusions,
although they are still disputable in detail, proposed in the closing
chapter of the present Encyclopaedia, to which conclusions I make free
to join mine, and which arc summed up as follows:—
M atter is but a semblance, a word. In truth there are only
differences of condition, not of nature, between all bodies, inorganic
or organic; Matter may disappear completely (vanish, according to
the word of Lcbon) in contradiction to the so-called axiom of Lavoisier
(nothing is lost, nothing is created). That which is is Force. A milligram
of radium contains millions of atoms, each one of which is but a system
of force. Matter and Force intermingle (Pythagoras already stated
this). The visible Universe is a compound of invisible elements.
Death also is but a semblance. It is but a moment in the eternal
life of the being, a moment in which its m atter becomes disorganised
by allowing the escape of the entity which made it live its earthly life
and which goes on—as the ancients believed and taught—to live in
the expectation of a reincarnation which as yet we know but dimly
but suspect to be real, since the experimental proofs of it are so many.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
41
Further this ever living entity must no longer be defined as has
been the custom, and what used to be called soul must be understood
to consist of two parts, the one wholly spiritual, the other fluid. Ex*
planations on this im portant point will be read in the course of these
pages.
In addition, whatever may be its nature, the real soul, endowed
with faculties and forces which still seem to be strange and are far from
being thoroughly known, appears to be able to manifest itself visibly,
to act from a distance, during its earthly life, and even after death.
There is, therefore, after the physical death, not a break, but
continuity for the soul, for the personality which does remain, in a
new state, a t first entirely different from the world which it leaves so
as to inhabit, no doubt temporarily, what the occultist calls hyperspace,
the realm of the “ fourth dimension.”
This hyperspace is thus peopled by milliards of souls of which a
certain number are possibly reincarnated—when ? how ? where ?
mystery !—and it is linked with space into which it somehow projects
a diffused consciousness composed of the milliards of consciousnesses
which have vanished from this earth. It becomes a centre a t once
cosmic and psychic, sometimes uniting with the individual conscious*
ness of the living, creating psychic currents, comparable with the
magnetic currents—hence the expression which becomes very true,
“ there are ideas in the air.” As to the nature of these souls, I have
already said that it must be double, one part of it being fluid. This
is what occultists, theosophists, spiritists, call the outer soul (orperisprit)
and which they call the seat of metapsychic phenomena.
These phenomena, the author speaks of them fully enough to enable
us to adm it them with him, since they are reckoned to-day in thousands,
all strictly checked. The facts can no longer be disputed. W hat
remains obscure is their explanation, although the one suggested above
is logical and clear, and it is the life after death which remains to be
studied extensively.
As to those who will only believe in phenomena which are repro
ducible at will, it is easy to answer them : you do not manufacture
comets, meteorites, magnetic disturbances due to sunspots, and yet
you observe them. Metapsychical phenomena are registered in the
records of Occultism. That is all. The only thing to do is to check
them. B ut the right remains to unite them amongst themselves by
an attem pt a t a general explanation.
The study of the Invisible, of the forces which it conceals, of the
human fluids, is yet but a t its dawn. Patience! To deny is absurd.
To observe is scientific. To think is wise. This is what I have done.
I t is what you will do after having read this book, the well arranged
summing up of vast reading and lengthy thought.
I N T R O D U C T I O N
42
Thought which has been useful, even should it have for its sole
result the furnishing, the uplifting of the intellect, the helping in the
conduct of life.
Thus the ancients, the old sages thought. And with a mind, be
sure of it, very active, very open, very intuitive, confronting the
observations of all with the doctrines of the Magi. And the elect
deduced therefrom a system, often varying according to the schools,
the personal turns of mind, but having a strong armour—the occult
Tradition—sufficiently one in its diversity to enable us, having found
it again, to revivify it by one great common effort.
This armour is th at of the old philosophical records, the Kabbala
and the Taroc, Spiritism, Theosophy. I t is the same everywhere with
very slight variations. I t is a t the bottom of all religions, but freed
from the crust of exoterism which hides their common oasis, dear and
easily understood by him who goes farther than superficial rites and
catechisms. I t is this freed basis of truth which constitutes modern
Occultism.
Let us therefore carry out this noble alchemy, an entirely intellectual
one, which consists of the transformation into an armour of precious,
hard metal and invulnerable, of the old rusted armour which still
dothes a humanity slow to plumb what astounds it, slow to work
at anything which docs not seem to lead to its immediate material
well-being.
Now the wise man knows that well-being proceeds above all from
success. Success is obtained by power over oneself and over others.
The noble power of him who has knowledge and will. The power of
him who is the master of his forces, and in one word of his rate.
This book which you are going to read belongs to those which will
teach you to know yoursdf and to know others, to keep a proper balance,
to have, as they say, temperament, to lead your fate, therefore, to
succeed—and to be happy.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
M. C Po in s o t .
F I R S T P A R T
THE DIVINATORY SCIENCES
“ Wearesofarfromknowingall thepowersofNatureandtheir
various methods ofaction, that it would bepoorphilosophy to deny
the existence ofphenomena solely because they cannot beexplained
in thepresent stateofour knowledge. Only wemust examine them
with an attention the more scrupulous as it 8eems more difficult
toacceptthem,anditis herethattheanalysisofprobabilitiesbecomes
indispensable toenable us to determine theextent towhichwe must
multiply observations or experiments, so as to obtain by means of
the powers which they seem to indicate a probability superior to
the reasons which we may havefor rejecting their existence
La pl a c e .
CHAPTER I
ASTROLOGY
I
Historical and General
Ou r amiable “ introducer ” having undertaken the task of vindicating
one after another the greater part of the various so-called occult sciences,
we shall not enlarge greatly, in the case of each of them, on a demon
stration already carried out, being content, by putting in order and
collecting into a seeming whole the numerous notes communicated
to the writer of the preface, with completing it on certain points, adding
to it a few historical sketches and a few remarks and anecdotes, expand
ing theory and practice as clearly as we are able so as to render this
Encyclopaedia really popular.
The reader will already have understood why webegin with Astrology,
the basis of the deductive divinatory arts. In addition it is no doubt
the art which before any other haunted the first human dreams.
Old in fact as the World, dating back to the distant tim es1 when
the shepherds guarding their primitive flocks employed the leisure
time of solitude by watching the phenomena of Nature, and in particular
the starry sky where very soon they discovered an unchanging order
and rhythm , Astrology was at the start an amazed and quasi-religious
meditation, a vast dream in which slowly principles and laws were
sketched out.
Little by little these men who, nearer to Nature than u>e are, had
an instinct and an intuition perhaps more developed than in our days, *
1 It is well known to wbat distant dates geologists to-day place back tho appearance of
human brings on the earth. Supposing it to be contemporary with the quaternary age (and
many think it goes back to the end ot the tertiary) it would already have an existence of 126,000
years. But we must not expect from the still animal outline of primitive man a speculative
intellect. It is thought that this outline required 100,000 years to reach the yet very relative
civilisation of the so-called mousterian era. It is therefore about 15,000 or 20,000 years that
we must date back man having an articulate language, a vague religion (he already believed in
survival), a few thoughts—and consequently a first sketch of astrological scienco.
> Men little inclined to credulity, such as Dr. Fnunusan, are willing to believe it rather
than admit on the other hand a constant perfecting of psychism. The reason for this is that
instinct and intuition have decreased in man as the result of the artificial life of civilisations
and the development of the centres of reason; and on the other hand far more diviners, meta
gnomons, sorcerers, etc., are found among primitive peoples than among the modems, where
these curious personalities are in feet recruited chiefly among people who are worn out or of
low culture; and finally the study of animals shows their admirable understanding of each
other without language, their foreknowledge of death, of danger, of particular events.
•ijjnijl
jo
a
g
ji
|0
}H|od
oqt
mot)
ao2uo|
Sm
£8o]oi)sy
mmpnoo
}oa
mop
‘snoftVAimai
s
jj
8trnp)tu'iqTq*
“qointio
otq
)vm
oogjtug
sin
uj
tuu>i(s
nosq
ovq
11
■
‘oanra
«
|t
i|ojn[Osqn
si
(oquao
jo
]
o
s
naq)
punoj
Bjoatqd
m|t
jo
nop
-npAoi
oq)
Bjnnpo
qosuoAin
qaiqa)
iflarj
fntuiouaipro
om
jo
unsai
pjai2o|aj-itro
oqj
in
g
ip
n
a
gqt
ptmoi
pooler)
qojqa
trag
inn
m
a
qj
■jotfl
poAoqaq
Aaqj
ynji
poojuapm
smtnnai
I
I
■
qdjfllg
mojj
qi
8tn8uuq
t
u
uujqauvjq
qqtqa
*8a3q)y
o)
uopCqflg
moi}
aoiiipai?
tnappiQ
otp
qqSnoiq
oqa
osojog
ova
)j
)vq)
pros
st
)t
)nq‘
i
mmoQ
pus
poison
]0
son)
oq»
ooino
aooaiQ
ui
aaoaq
uooq
evq
JSJojausy
,
e
*panquii
aq
o
j
a
a
u
a
p
s
s
iq
j
poA
aipq
X
i
S
u
o
j
m
qaiqM
qjiM
uisqBjBj
aq$
}
s
u
ib
3
b
b
n
qiM-aajj"
53
s
41
p
n
f
j
S
u
p
a
s
‘p
m
sq
u
q
3
n
o
q
j|B
BujqstuojsB
qou
si
qaiqM
‘uistu
o
in
ap
jo
qnq
3
jn
q
so
d
a
n
j
o
qoa
siaM
oqoj
s
ji
SaisnooB
‘}i
SuiAiiap
‘j
3
A
3
Moq
‘jn
o
q
jiM
A
S
o
p
u
jsy
p
a
q
a
a
^
B
X
jtuB
ijsuq;)
•(X
u
io
u
o
j
j
s
b
u
i
uaAa)
poA
jasoid
aAuq
3
m
qaiqM
sa
u
re
a
oqoquiX
s
j
o
auiAip
a
q
i
o
m
p
o
^
a
q
j
jo
su3is
a
q
j
o
j
puB
(aAa
p
a
q
s
u
a
q
j
o
j
ajqistA
3
j
b
qaiqM
UMouq
bi3M
asoq?
Xiao
qaiqM
j
o
p
i
q
s
i
b
j
s
a
q
j
u
i
o
j
j
p
a
q
sm
S
u
p
sip
^prea)
s}auB[d
a
q
j
o
j
3
a
b
9
qaiqM
a
a
a
a
jjj
s
b
m
m
;
j
'q
^
r
e
g
oq*
p
u
n
o
j
u
n
g
a
q
*
‘io
u
o
i
j
b
j
o
j
a^apluioa
a
q
j
j
o
s
q
ju
o
u
i
aA
pM
j
o
j
u
i
uoistAip
b
o
j
d
u
ip
u
o
d
sa
jjo
b
s
u
o
ip
q
p
js
u
o
a
3
A|3M^
a
q
i
q
S
n
o
jq
j
„
sauB
uiuinj
„
jB
d
p
u
u
d
o
m
j
a
q
j
j
o
X
aiunot
a
q
j
p
a
q
u
a
s
a
p
:jsaq
puB
OBipojj
a
q
j
p^Aiaouda
‘u
o
o
n
a
q
j
puB
u
n
g
a
q
js
p
o
S
ja
iq
b
j
p
q
j
j
o
j
SuiABq
‘oqM
s
u
s
i
u
s
s
y
sq
^
s
b
m
j
t
jB
q
j
a
is
s
s
pjnoM
•soujunoo
QB3UBXi3)ip3j^
snoiiBA
aq^
‘auioy;
r
‘o
o
a
a
ig
‘^dXSg—
ppoM
t)u*3i3UB
s
q
)
j
o
j
s
a
i
a
q
)
j
s
a
o
*
p
sa
a
d
s
)
i
‘B
ip
u
j
u
i
p
u
s
B3ppsq3
u
i
X[aBpi
6
r)iB
d
p
a
q
stjn
o
g
A
^ojoj^sy
aisqM
*Bisy
u
i
o
i
j
'SjuauiaA
oai
q
s
q
j
j
o
^
p
tijs
aq^
j
o
j
S3TJOJBAJ3SqO
PUB
SJBJS
3
q
j
JO
dtqSJOAV
3
q
)
JOJ
P3J33J3
s
j
b
j
j
b
a
jd
u
a
^
3
<
u
b
s
s
q
)
p
u
s
au
o
u
i
p
u
n
o
j
aJ3M
uojX
qB
g
u
i
p
u
u
q3A3ui^[
u
i
s
n
q
j
p
u
y
•p
agissnp
suroaaq
3
g
)
i|
Xq
3
(jjq
qaiqM.
‘p
ajaa
q
o
a
X|MO(s
‘aSpajM
ouq
ja
q
jo
jo
sp
u
iq
q
u
u
i
p
u
u
‘su
o
p
B
in
ig
u
o
a
j
o
su
o
im
u
i
u
t
‘su
o
p
m
^
u
t
S
uipunojsB
u
t
q
a
u
jaX
j
n
q
‘sassau
q
sip
p
q
a
p
i
n
s
jo
iia
Xq
pdjBtjtA*
‘pasiijuoa
u
io
jjo
q
j
b
a
b
u
sp
s
y
-sapraiA
ip
^JB
[3jn)
ssaj
j
o
3
j
o
u
i
10
saauj
a
q
)
^nd
X
sq
j
jq
S
iu
a
q
j
jo
sa
q
a
io
j
b
sa
q
j
p
u
iq
a
q
j
o
j
‘a
a
u
a
p
s
s
n
o
p
i
p
j
y
*
s
m
b
[
psjaA
oasip
X
puanbasqns
j
o
aainuouS
i
Xq
os|B
p
u
s
(
s
j
b
o
X
p
o
ap
unq
m
s
j
b
u
i
sXo)
aq
qiM
qaiqM
)
s
ju
a
u
in
q
s
u
i
p
a
p
d
o
sno[pA
JB
ui
jn
o
jo
q
an
j
3
q
j
Xq
‘(3uiuos«aj
uiV
)jaaun
o
j
^
u
a
u
iu
a
d
x
a
a
jn
s
S
u
u
js
ja
id
‘X
iSuijuds
p
u
iu
i
p
a
p
u
a
siq^
pa’
s
n
X
aqj
q
S
n
o
q
jp
)
’
p
u
tu
i
[BapiJa
a
q
j
j
o
ajnjiB
j
a
tg
Xq
p
a
g
is
p
j
siiopBUBidxa
qjtM
'u
o
i^
p
sja
d
n
s
qju\*
pa{3uiui
XjsnotAqo
a
a
u
a
p
s
b
'saA
jasuiaqj
s
j
b
j
s
a
q
^
s
a
p
in
^
j
p
q
j
s
b
q
o
b
)
oqM
siajapuB
M
asaq?
^
s
S
u
o
u
ib
p
a
u
u
o
j
s
b
m
.
’suoijBAjasqo
q
s
a
ij
Xq
01
p
a
p
p
u
X
guB
jsuoa
u
o
ijip
B
jj
jo
pasoduioa
‘a
a
u
a
p
s
aiu
^
b
s
n
q
r
'p
ajB
aqdtuoa
a
jo
u
i
p
u
u
a
io
u
i
JajBf
jn
q
ajduiis
j
s
j
g
‘sSuiuosBaj
paiSojBUB
j
o
^p
isaj
a
q
j
s
b
p
u
s
‘j
a
q
jo
qaua
pa^B
ioqouoa
qaiqM*
s
ja
n
j
p
a/ijasq
o
sn
o
ja
u
in
u
j
o
jp
is
a
j
a
q
j
s
b
j
i
p
aA
aip
q
X
aqj
;
ju
p
S
a
j
os
s
b
m
ss
a
j3
o
jd
asoqM
s
j
b
j
s
a
s
o
q
j
u
i
o
j
j
S
uijB
uuuia
saau
an
gui
u
iip
paA
iasqo
X
aqj
j
u
q
j
jq
S
n
o
q
j
S
3
0
N
3
I
3
S
n
n
o
o
o
3
H
i
9t
The European Middle Ages—after the dark times of the Invasions
—very eagerly studied Astrology (preserved particularly in Italy)
which reached its apogee in the Sixteenth Century. The names of
Nostradamus, Ruggien, Gauric, Cardan, Morin de Villefranche are
well known. B ut already Astronomy was arising, although Copernicus,
Tycho Brahe, Kepler, Spinoza, Galileo, whilst accepting the new ideas,
did not in any way deny a part of the older ones.
The two sciences quickly became enemy sisters, as always happens
when a tree of belief splits into two branches one of which attem pts
to supplant the other (such as Protestantism and Catholicism—pro
ceeding from Christianity). On the one hand some tended towards
a science called exact, founded solely on calculation, on positive and
renewable experiments, on logical deduction; on the other hand others
did not want to abandon a tradition so rich in analogies, in authorities,
in acquired observations. The former thus created a science to some
extent official, academic, dogmatic, opposed (instead of uniting with
it) to the old Astrology, winch was relegated to the rank of divinatory
arts, occult, scoffed at, ridiculed. I t must be confessed th a t its experts
conduced to the mockery by retaining, perhaps on purpose, a somewhat
baroque attitude, a somewhat bizarre vocabulary, a hermetism which,
however, was not without pride. Several fell into quackery. And
it is not so long ago th a t it seemed as if Astrology were definitely
sentenced to remain the bee in the bonnet of a few inoffensive eccentrics,
the livelihood of a few old fogeys, and an example of popular
credulity.
B ut now we find th a t educated and inquisitive persons, patient
searchers, occultists determined to remain sane and clear in mind,
united during the middle of last century in thinking th a t perhaps all
was not so childish or so stupid in these century old statem ents.1
Thinking it over, they found th at all the so-called occult sciences were
connected, held together; they re-read the old texts; they tried to
clarify tradition; they definitely parted company with the quacks;
and finally bravely they reconstructed Astrology such as true scholars
teach and practise it to-day.*
* Astrology bad as basis, according to Piorro Piobb, an electro-magnetic induction of tbe
stars, the mathematical formula of which was published recently. This induction woe termed
influx. The interplay of the various influxes produoes the conditions of Ufe on earth. Astrology
is in short the science of material and psychological determinism.
* It would seem to be true that it was the Greek Posidimus who, according to Bouehi
Leclereq, was the first to give to Astrology natural foundations. We must subsequently come
down to Harm to And Astrology again escaping from the occult ideas. Finally it is Coolant
who in our own time started again on the scientific truck on which ere engaged men of pure
reasoning such aa the polytechnician Chouasnord (Paul Flambart). Side by etae with him we
may mention amongst eminent astrologers of yesterday and to-day, Hentgea, Fomalhaut,
Krafft, Mainssieux, Selva, Barlet, Brieu, Ely Star (although ha often uses kabboliatic methods),
etc., etc.
A S T R O L O G Y 47
48 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
II
Cases of Prophecies—Astrological Signs
And jret, in spite of our good will, we shall not be free from reproach.
The obstinate sceptics will always look upon us as visionaries, and our
scientific progressives will call us laggards. We have given our answer
to the former. The latter will allow us to wait, before popularising
their methods, until these become more perfected and consequently
clearer, therefore simplified, for the more an art or a scicnce progresses,
the more simple it becomes. In this book we will keep to an Astrology
whose modernised tradition is full of prophecies which became true.
One of the best known of these is th at of Pierre d’Ailly who predicted
the French Revolution some three hundred and fifty years before it
broke out. The Centuries of Nostradamus comprise several centuries,
and his predictions for the most part came true. We find one of the
most remarkable horoscopic successes—made, it is true, by a Hindoo
—in the Memoirs of Lord F., published by the Century Review, and
quoted by Luc Orion in his Astrology Unveiled:—
F.’s father, so he tells us, was the younger son of an exceedingly
rich English family, but owing to the law of primogeniture, he himself
was poor. At the beginning of the Eighteenth Century he was Lieu*
tenant in command of an outpost in the Punjab (India). One evening
his scouts brought in a Hindoo who said he lived in a distant sanctuary,
the priests of which practised Astrology. As this man did not seem
to be very suspect, the Lieutenant was on the point of letting him
go, when a sudden thought occurred to him—he offered him his liberty
in exchange for a horoscope. The Brahmin begged him to be careful,
saying that it was dangerous to pry into the sacred mysteries. The
companions of the officer, much impressed, did not ask to know their
fate. F.’s father alone insisted. He gave the date of his birth, and
the Hindoo, having consulted the sky and mentally drawn up the
horoscope, answered after a long pause in a solemn voice:—
“ You desired to know. Listen. Yet ten revolutions of the sun
and three revolutions of the moon, and you will be rich and a lo rd ;
you will rise to fortune on a ladder made of eleven corpses. Y et three
more revolutions of the sun and two revolutions of the moon and silk
will cause your death. The stars have spoken.”
F. smiled and let the Hindoo go. B ut soon he heard of the death
of the head of his house, an English peer, then, having left India, of
the death of the eleven members who within ten years and three months
left him heir to the title and fortune of his brothers. Remembering
the prophecy, the first part of which had been so strangely fulfilled,
he forbade the use of all silk in his castle. B ut when fresh trouble
49
A S T R O L O G Y
broke out in India, he rejoined the Service. He had barely reached
his post when the well-known “ revolt of the Thugs ” broke out, and
he was strangled, in accordance with the custom of these rebels, with
a silken cord. And this happened thirteen years and live months after
the adventure in the Punjab.
Next let us extract from an old number of the Gaulois, the following
paragraph which appeared shortly after the death of the celebrated
occultist Stanislas ae G ualta:—
The sale of the library of the very distinguished occultist, the Marquis
de Gualta, a fervent Catholic, has once more brought to the fore those old
books of prophecies of which he had collected such extraordinary examples.
Their number is incredible, and in almost all of them there are gleanings for
the plain man as well as for the better informed.
When we consider, for instance—from the time of the Revolution down
to the excitements of the present day—the events of the century in their
connection with the prophecies of seers of all times and of all countries, we
are struok by their coincidence with historic tenth. From 1781 to our own
time there is not one fact of real importance which has not been foretold,
long years before its occurrence, by the most celebrated among the seers.
The horrors of the Revolution, the coming of Bonaparte, his unexpected good
fortune, his pride and his reverses, the campaign m Russia, 1814, 1815, the
entrance of the Allies into Paris, the Restoration of the French Royal Family,
the fall of the Bourbons and Louis-Philippe, “ the cock taking the place of
the lily,” the reignof whatsomecallPlutocracy,the revolutionof 1848, Napoleon
III, the Crimean War, the disasters of 1870 have been foretold in language
so precise, so striking and b o clear that we rightly remain amazed.
No other epoch has ever seen such a harvest of prophets and seers as ours.
And, without speaking of Mile. Couesdon or of the visionaries whose truthful
ness has not been definitely proved, is it necessary to refer to the Prophetic
Voices of the Abb6 Curique, the predictions of Father Necton, those of the
Nun de Belley, of the Trappist of Orthez, of the Abb6 Souffrant, of the seer
of Owell, the “ announcements ” of Mgr. d’Hohenloe, the Last Word of the
Prophecies of Turrique, the predictions of Melanie Calvat, of Marie Lataste,
of tne ecstatic of BouUerest . . . and so many others who are found every
day 1
Among all these visions of the future two are specially revered by the
lovers of occult matters. The well known PredictionofOrvaland the Prophecy
ofPremol owe their universal fame as much to the clearness and the certainty
of their statements as to their indisputable authenticity, since they have been
found as far away as India.
Let us add to these two or three known facts relating to the
phenomenon of prediction.
The astrologer Bishop Luc Garic, so says the Princess of Cleves,
had foretold to Henry II that he would be killed in a duel; to the
50
Due de Guise that he would be murdered; to a certain M. d’Escars
th at he would have his head broken by the kick of a horse; it is well
known that he was not mistaken.
Cazotte (the author of the Deoil in Love) and who also was an initiate,
being one evening at the house of Chamfort, shortly before the Revolu
tion, which was already being talked of, foretold:—
to Condorcet, that he would die in prison by poisoning himself;
to Chamfort, that he would cut his veins by twenty-two cuts with
a razor;
to Vic-d’Azir, that he would die of an attack of go u t;
to Nicolai and Bailly, that they would go to the scaffold;
to the Duchesse de Grammont, that she too would go into the fatal
cart.
All these suffered the unhappy lot foretold them by this seer-
academician in 1780.
Olivarius, surgeon and theologian, published in 1542 a Book of
Prophecies in which we find, written beforehand, a biography which
corresponds almost item by item with Napoleon 1.
In 1550 appeared the Book of the Condition and Mutation of the
Times, by Richard Roussat, Canon of Langres, and we find this descrip
tion of it made recently by a bookseller in his catalogue, where he
values it a t the tidy sum of 2,000 francs:—
“ Among the curiosities of this work we find the remarkable prophecy
in which the French Revolution is announced in a very definite manner. In
the paragraph (page 102) which we reproduce below, the dates 1789 and 1814
are indicated in rail words:—‘Let us leave and put an end to speaking of
things completed and which are done daily, which almost all men know and
are aware of unless they are stupid and idiots. And now let us change our
subject and come to speak of the great and marvellous conjunction which the
astrologers tell us is to come about the years of Our Lord onethousandseven
hundred and eighty^nine (1789), and about twenty-five years later (1814).
Having consideredand calculatedall thesethings, the said astrologers conclude
that if the world endures until such and such a time (which to God alone is
known) very great mutations and alterations will take place in this universal
world; even unto the religions and the laws.’”
Of course all these prophecies which we relate at this moment are
not particularly astrological, and many are phenomena of voyance
of which we shall have to speak again. B ut we hope to be forgiven
if we encroach in these anecdotes on later chapters, which themselves
are not deprived of them. I t may also be thought to be not out of
place, on the very threshold of a book dealing mainly with the divinatory
sciences, to give typical examples of various divinations which them-
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
61
selves prove that, whencesoever they may proceed—from the reading
of the skies, the hand, the cards, etc.—they form an im portant whole
of mysterious facts well worth study.
This is why we allow ourselves to recall here the recent and dis-
concerting stories which went the round a t the time of the excavations
carried out in the Valley of Kings, in Egypt. I t is well known th at
the violation of the tomb of Tut-ank-Amen was followed by the some
what early and somewhat strange death of several of those who were
responsible for it. Soon after, another death caused surprise in the
world of Literature, the death, in the East, of the journalist^ Andrd
Tudesq, not so much on account of the death itself, a t which his friends
were not much astonished, for they knew th a t their colleague was
consumptive, as on account of the report thereof given by the President
of the Press Syndicate of Cochinchina which follows:—
While I was trying, writes M. do la Chevroti&re, to comfort him, while I
attempted to make him believe that the end was not near, he shook his head
and told me the following prophecy:—
“ Friend, I am a marked man.
“ There are holy places which it is not right to violate.
“ An emiment traveller took into a holy temple at Angkor an impious axe,
a bonze foretold his death. He was, as you know, murdered!
“ The Governor General Long, Northdifie, and I, we also violated, with the
impiousness of inquisitive tourists, a temple hidden in the woods, of which a
Buddhist priest wanted to bar us the entry.
“ This bonze put a curse on us and told us in his imprecations that before
five years had elapsed we should all three be removed from the number of the
living.
“ Northdifie was the first to die. Poor Maurice Long fell on the journey,
at Colombo. I alone am left. This is the fourth year.
“ I feel the prediction of the bonze weighing down my fate.”
Andr£ Tudesq lies there, dead; the prophecy has come true.
We have here a prophecy by curse and not. by astrology—so be it.
We shall see later what Magic thinks of it and how it explains it. Still
it is a prophecy, like many thousand others. And we wanted to begin
by quoting some before plunging into the heart of our subject.
• « • • • •
I t is of course understood that we shall not base our faith on anecdotes
of this kind, although it would be possible to multiply them. Such
exactness in the knowledge of the future remains somewhat fantastic.
But more within our reach and more easily checked are horoscopic
statements relating to this or that person whom we know. I t is in this
realm convenient for our examination th at we can and must draw up
our tables of nativities—we shall presently show how.
A S T R O L O G Y
52
And here also we have the support of modem scholars, as is shown
by this fragment of an interview given to our colleague Andr£ Arnyvelde
by the celebrated F. Ch. Barlet (who died in 1922):—
“ Apart from the study of the Kabbala, of religions and their symbols,
the only concrete scienceto whichM. F.Cb. Barletdevoted himselfis Astrology.
In this realm he iBlooked upon as a master, and the work which forms the
result of his researches is law. As I ask him for a few definite details, he
gives me a large mass of cases in which the future was described to him with
certainty by means of astrological tables. He helped in the cure of children,
whose coming illnesses he had seen; during the war he was able to put on
their guard soldiers and officers whom he knew or who were described to him,
by warning them of the day and the hour when they would take part in the
attack, and what precautions they would be able to take. When the events
did not bear out the tables, there was yet always a part of truth in what
the latter had foretold. Thus M. Barlet several times during the war read
in the stars the end of the war, and if at the date given the war did not end,
still it became known subsequently that these dates had alwayscoincided with
attempts or proposals for peace. . . .
“ Astrology, continued M. Barlet, is the great providential guide which,
by warningus, orby showingto uswhatweshouldnothaveknownof ourselves,
enables us to correct. The more we perfect ourselves, the more we escape
from Astrology, that is to say, Fate. Yet it is the great Teacher. It is tne
proof that there is ‘something’ which governs humanity. It leads man
towards an immortal realisation of the Absolute, of the Absolute looked upon
as an inexhaustible power which manifests itself progressively.1
”
A good astrological exercise will be the construction of the horoscope
of great men whose qualities, defects and career are known to us. We
shall thus have excellent tests.
For instance the horoscope of Gamahut, the sinister murderer,
has been drawn up. Criminal leanings abounded in it : —Mercury
in Scorpio, Mars ana the Moon joined in house and in addition equated
with Saturn. Saturn twice, joined with Jupiter and Mercury in house
X, which means condemnation, imprisonment, violent death.
Proof of low instinct likewise abounds in the astrological table
of Pranzini. We do not set it out in detail, especially because the
expressions used will for the moment seem to you sibylline, although
presently they will become clear. B ut we may add that, drawn up
again and again by qualified astrologers, at the other end of the appalling
1 We could not be more up to date tban by pointing out that at the last Congress of Experi
mental Psychology, the President, after having again replied to all the objections raised against
Astrology, showed the ecientiflo and social utility of such study. “ Its great utility," he said,
“ is that by showing us our qualities, flaws and defects, and the conjunctions in which the sub
ject will probably find himself, it enables us to correct the defects, eradicate the flaws,forcsco the
events, and to ward them off before thoy have become real.''
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
horoscopes above mentioned, th at of Victor Hugo is truly magnificent,
th a t of Napoleon most remarkable with its double prediction of rise
and fall. A young pupil of Professor Theano (Mme. Bordy) one day
during one of the lectures of this learned and unarming woman a t the
Lecture Hall of the Learned Societies drew the horoscope of Pierre
Loti illustrated on the blackboard. The fascinated students recognised
item by item in the celestial signs the beautiful and melancholy terres
trial adventure of this great writer.
Farther on we shall find a fairly simple method of recognising
without recourse to the horoscope, by means of planetary typology,
the main influences of the stars on a human being. B ut it is time
we reached the practical object of our chapter:—the principles of
Astrology and their application.
First however, it is necessary to give the Table of the signs
generally used in Astrology, a t least those representing the seven planets
and the twelve constellations of the Zodiac. Here they are, together
w ith an explanation resembling th at given in the Human Cosmogony
of Elie Alta who says they are derived from the configuration of the
Zodiac:— 1
1. The Sun is represented by a circle showing traces of the human
face, but simplified h y a dot in the centre, symbol of the infinite and
of the figure 10.
2. Saturn means Time (remember Mythology) represented by a
cross and the four quarters of the circle symbolic of duration, the
finite within the infinite. I t is therefore pictured by a cross with one
of the quarters of the circle, or sometimes two opposite quarters.
8. The Moon is pictured by a crescent, plain without any further
explanation.
4. Mars is a ray shooting forth from the Sun, like an arrow of heat.
5. Venus has for its sign a cross surmounted by a circle. I t is in
short the sign of Time placed under that of the sun, for Venus is solar
fertility, but dependent on Duration.
6. Mercury has for sign th at of Venus surmounted by a lunar
crescent, sometimes by two quarters of the circle which perhaps are
symbolic of wings (as in Mythology), Mercury being the intermediary
between the four elements and the phenomena produced by them.
7. Jupiter is more complicated. There are three suns, symbolic
of earthly fire maintained by heavenly fire and rising out of the waters
under the form of steam (fire-ether), which falls back as beneficent ram.
These three suns are united by lines forming a kind of 4 which explains
the hieroglyphic simplification which has been made of it.
1 Which theoretically ia a circle divided into four by the seasons.
A S T R O L O G Y 53
54 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
T a b l e o f t h e P l a n e t s ,
THEIR COMPLETE CONFIGURATION AND THE SIMPLIFIED SION WHICH
REPRESENTS THEM
*3&£. «_£u/n
„i‘•1 1
1
© ©
! M i
3 3 D
jK c ite
G T o *
/>
YevuU>
9 9
JlC w xu 'U j,
? ¥ $
% t ¥ 1
As to the 12 signs of the Zodiac, here is their configuration, beginning
with the Ram, the first of the astrological year (start of spring).1
2
*
4
5
1. The Ram is represented by a ram’s head, but simplified into a
figure forming a horizontal 3, symbol of beginning fertility, the head
of the starry flock.
2. Taurus: in principle a bull’s head, also simplified into an 8 open
at the top.
8. Gemini: two children joined, simplified into a capital H.
4. Cancer or the Crab is represented by two horizontal Nines, joined
or disjoined.
5. L eo: the symbol of the Sun followed by a tail, symbolic, says
Alta, of “ the spermatozoid, the principles of reproduction, the central
fire of the earth, maturity, the vital force.”
A S T R O L O G Y 55
Ta b l e o f t h e Sig n s o f t h e Zo d ia c ,
THEIR COMPLETE CONFIGURATION AND ABBREVIATED SIGN
( Q )
tiawAAA6
“O ’ V u
G e m in i
ft fr H
Qo a v c &C 0 5 $
Zejor
Q ^ o * 2
w p rrp w
JCi£ n a , _Z [V u-n-, -2 -
S-COX^AJO- /VW* YT\^
fca^OXa/ULuA si— > ^ —> -»—*•
Q xp u ca tn g & £
.A x£LU X/tU £4
^FtAce6
i < *
5 6
6. Virgo. Alta sees in it the symbol of the digestive canal (as he
saw in Cancer the symbol of the system of circulation) and th a t of the
serpent which the Virgin often holds under her foot in the Christian
images. Simplified, the sign is a sort of capital M.
7. Libra. Middle sign of the Zodiac, symbol of equilibrium. A
simplified scale.
8. Scorpio. Under the emblem of lightning ending in a dart of
scorpion’s tail.
9. Sagittarius. A man drawing a bow. Simplification: an arrow.
10. Capricorn. Alta sees in it the signs of Saturn, Jupiter and Mars
joined into one forming three crescents connected.
11. Aquarius: two wavy lines symbolic of the regular running of
liquids (or fluids).
12. Pisces. Two fishes joined into a sign, differing from, though
resembling, that of Gemini.
We do not intend to lose our way among the long explanations
given by various authors of these symbolic signs. Besides, later pages
will clear up what may be left dark in this summary for those who
are not initiated into the mysteries, symbols and analogies with which
Astrology abounds.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
I ll
The Planets and their Influences. The Lord of the Day.
The natural Astrology, which confined itself to explaining the
atmospheric variations, has become Meteorology. The cosmogonic
Astrology, which studied the stars solely from the physical point of
view (nature, course, etc.) has become Astronomy. I t is horoscopic
Astrology alone which concerns us here1. Its object is the study of
astral influences.
Let us study its various elements without further delay. We shall
then come to the practical conclusions based on these data, namely
the divination, or rather the expectation of a destiny, by means of
casting the horoscope.
1 We bod intended for a moment using tbe word Astromancy, suggesting to our colleagues
in this beautiful and curious art, that it was preferable to that of Astrology. Besides Ely Star
and others have used it. It is more logical and just as harmonious. Ourreason was as follows:
While it was the initial knowledge of the stars, tbe word Astrology (astron—star; logos—word)
was excellent, since it described the total of the knowledge of the sky; but since to-day Astrology
has given birth to other well-defined scienoes, via., Astronomy and Meteorology, it now forms
but a part of the old general science, namely that special scienoe relating to the divination
of character and of fate by means of the stars, and therefore it ought to be called Astromaney
(astron—star; manteia—divination). We have, however, through modesty not yielded to the
temptation. If the word is the right one, it will come into uso by itself.
57
The reasons for believing in astral influences have been supplied.
But what are these influences ? Tradition is going to show them to
us, and first as regards the Seven Planets.1 Let us remember th at in
Astrology the name of Lord of the Day is given to each of the stars
which governs with its influence a day of twenty-four hours. In other
words, the ancients believed th at the stars each in their turn governing
one day of the week w ere:—For Sunday, the S u n ; for Monday, the
Moon; for Tuesday, Mars ; for Wednesday, M ercury; for Thursday,
Ju p ite r; for Friday, V enus; for Saturday, Saturn.
They also believed th at where one or other of the parents belongs
to a particularly well defined type, it is possible th at through sym
pathetic harmony, birth may be advanced or delayed, so th at it may
take place a t the time of the predominance of the ruling star. They
believed th at we have a certain character, not only because we are
born under this or th at sky, but th at we are bom under a particular
sky because we have a certain atavistic character sketched out during
gestation. “ The astral influences of the moment of birth sum up the
atavistic astral influences, those which ruled during gestation, and
those which will rule during life.” (R. Schwaeblc). I t had in fact
been noticed th at frequently a son is born under a sky not dissimilar
from th at of his father. Whence “ family likenesses.” a
Let us add, therefore, for the benefit of those who in all lope will
want to add to the influence of the Lord of the day of birth the influence
of the Lord of the day of conception, th at Astrology enables them to
do so in the following m anner:—
The principle on which the sidereal forces react on the new-born
child, impressing on it both a physical and a moral stamp, thus forming
its character and its destiny, is found in the woman, the mother. Since
it reacts in a sure fashion on the menstrual flow, it also obviously reacts
on the pregnancy. I t is therefore possible to prepare a natal horoscope
by means of a prenatal horoscope.
Now it seems settled th at tne conceptional life consists of three
stages:—conception, the seventh month (when the foetus acquires a
life of its own) and the moment of birth.
Taking as basis the data which the German astrologer, Glaser,
* Two others have been discovered, but possibly just because of their distance their in
fluence is less; they have only to be studied. It will also be observed that the word planet
is here applied also to the star the Sun and to the satellite the Moon. Simple question of vocabu*
lory. The Sun and the Moon were mainly called the two Luminaries.
Further note:—It is well known that In the K&bbala e special number was giventoeach
S
lanet. It is very odd to note that these numbers begin with 3 (Saturn) and end with 0 (the
loon). The numbers I and 2 arc not used, and correspond with the two planets then unknown,
but perhaps guessed a t. The other numbers are 4 (Jupiter), 6 (Mars), fl (the Sun), 7 (Venus),
8 (Mercury).
* In this connection we might have to criticise at length the law of astral heredity, so
dear to the great astrologer Paul ChouasnanL
A S T R O L O G Y
58
claims to have found in Egyptian inscriptions which reveal the
method in this connection of the priest of Apis named Phuom-Omri,
we shall be able to draw up a scheme for each of these three stages
capable of being united into one threefold whole.
However, as the exact date of conception is not always known, it
will be sufficient to observe the general magnetic state of the sky during
the ninth month preceding the birth during an approximate period
of ten days. In this manner we shall obtain “ the Lord of the Sign ”
and the “ Lord of the Decanus ” as to which we shall presently give
the necessary explanations.
Let us now pass on to the description of the general influence of
each of the seven planets, remembering th a t it m il always be more
or less modified by other influences which we shall study subsequently.
The Sun. This is the luminous hearth of the Universe, the source
of heat, the emblem of wisdom and of will. I t is youth and its ardour,
its impetuosity and its generosity. I t is life and its generative power.
I t is Apollo on his fiery chariot. I t was the star of Agamemnon, of
Alexander, of Raphael, of Moli£re.
The Solarian1 is generally of medium height, well made, of lemon
colouring mixed with red.2 His face is oval, his beard full, his hair
auburn or golden,2his forehead prominent, his eye limpid, stern without
unkindness, his cheeks arc firm and fleshy, his nose is thin and straight,
his eyebrows are well arched, his mouth large and thick-lipped, his
hips slender, his limbs thin, Ids gait noble, his body running more to
muscle than to fat.
The true apollonian sign-manual makes benevolent, proud, somewhat
ambitious, cheerful, intelligent, qualified for command, wealth, celebrity,
or at any rate for a brilliant position. I t produces the intuitive, the
inventor, the acute and keen-sighted who none the less are seduced
by beauty, loving decoration, state, the arts and literature.
Those who, bom under this beneficent influence, wish to accentuate
it, will prefer the colour white, take the chrysolith as their talismanic
stone; gold will be their metal, the lion their animal, saffron their
scent; they will give honour to the vine and the laurel.4
>We deal here, as in the cose oi the other planets, with the description of an almost single
influence,whichnoveroccura. Noaolartype.Baturaianorothar.ispure. Butthesolar,satumian,
or other dominance may be very oleoily marked,
* Deabarollea, in speaking of the colour of the complexion in the different planetary types,
always stresses it, giving it thus an importance which we mention in passing.
* One reservation on this point. The auburn colour of the hair, formerly frequent, has
yielded place firstto fair hair,then to brown. The numberof the brown-haired increaseswithout
ceasing. Thisimportantobservationianotto be foundin any of the bookswhichwehaveperused.
* As may be guessed, these symbols are akin to Magic which will be studied later on,
but they are found m ell books dealing with traditional Aetiology. The scientists disdain them.
All the same we have thought well to mention them by way of record.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
B ut there are shadows in this table. The Solarians run the risk
of seeing their pride change into insufferable arrogance, their ambition
into folly of grandeur, their talk into chatter, their elegance into
eccentricity, their golden complexion into dull yellow; their eyes
may become weakened and veiled, their heart suffer palpitations.
They will dread death by fire. Their home is sometimes unhappy,
their children ungrateful. If they wish to avoid many disappointments,
they will do well to remain lonely.
The Moon. I t has always been looked upon, even in literatures
totally unconnected with the occult sciences, as the star of dreaminess,
the golden muse of imagination and also of hallucination. Does not
Pierrot sing for ever to the Moon of his unrequited love ?
Merely by casting on us its magnetism the Queen of the Night
would seem to be maleficent. I t turns its sons into fantastic and change
able beings, those lunatics of whom we have all met specimens, people
incapable of initiative, listless, apathetic, undecided. Imaginative
5
res, b u t always following a new desire; they would like to spend their
ives travelling. They are whimsical.
The Selenians appear to be nervous, inclined to paralysis, to
strabismus, to diseases of the brain (it is amongst them th a t the largest
number of insane and neurotics is found), but for this same reason
inclined to somnambulism, to magnetism, to hypnosis. Many are
dreamers, visionaries. Very few become orators. The bad lunar
types are lazy, drunkards, egoistical, liars and false.
Tradition shews the well defined Selenian to have dull fair hair,
head round, complexion pale, the eye weak or inattentive, the nose
short and rounded, the temples wide.1 I t is in the main true th at
their face is usually astonished, melancholy, their flesh flabby, their
body stout, their gait unsure, their limbs thick, their movements timid,
their lips fleshy, their mouth bitter and small.
Poets, fishers, sailors belong to this planetary type whose lucky
metal is silver, their colour green, their talisman the pearl, the opal
or selenite, their animal the ass, their plant (rather narcotic) the poppy,
the buttercup or the tulip, their perfume amber.
If painters, says J . de Grandpr£, they will produce landscapes
flooded with tw ilight; if musicians, nocturnes and fantastic symphonies;
if writers, mysterious or fanciful novels. Corrected by Venus, they
may become remarkable, as witness Theophile Gautier.
Mars. Hostile planet (because it is the nearest to us ?) and
unchaining catastrophes, according to the Ancients, such as wars,
1 The head round, wide above the temples where the organ of imagination is situate; the
upper part of the forehead, where in phrenology “ causality ” and “ comparison " ore situate,
is not eery prominent, but that part of the skull which is near the eyes and gives qualities of
perception projects much (Desbarollea).
A S T R O L O G Y 59
6 0
revolutions, tempests, earthquakes. Star of wrath and brutality,
but also of initiative and 'will, Mars is the lord of fire, the protector of
the soldier, the god of war-makers, of men inclined to fury and to violent
sensuality.
The Martians, if they are subject to beneficent influences, are,
however, able to transform these dangerous instincts into qualities,
be merely self-willed, energetic, tenacious, enduring, loyal, even heroes.
“ The persons bearing the sign-manual of this planet,” says Enigm a1
“ have a robustconstitution, a manly appearance. Theirhair is generally
black or tawny, their glance quick and hard, their jaw large, their
cheekbones prominent. Their gestures are quick, daring, and they
walk quickly. The complexion of the Martian is swarthy, his nose
bony and arched, his dun square, his temperament bilious. In the
upper dasses the subjects of this planet become surgeons, dentists,
lawyers, generals, explorers, hunters. In the lower dasses they become
metallurgists, smiths, blacksmiths, quarriers, miners, butchers, hangmen,
gunsmiths, soldiers, barbers, etc. The Martians die fairly young and
often of a violent death. They are subject to accidents, to blows, to
wounds, to inflammations. Few of them become rich, for they have
no foresight.
Their correspondences are:—In the animal kingdom, the wolf;
in the mineral, iron; in the vegetable, absinthe; their colour ydlow,
their stone the amethyst, their perfume garlic; their chiefcharacteristics,
the face and muscles. Illnesses, hysteria, erethism (irritation of the
tissues).
Mars allied to Saturn gave their impetuous qualities to Michael
Angelo and to Leonardo da Vinci. Allied to Venus it dominated Horace
Vernet. Caravage was a thorough Martian. In Julius Caesar were
combined Mars and Jupiter. I t was exaggerated Martianism which
was responsible for the fiery complexion oi Catilina, of Cassandra, of
Caesar Borgia.1
Mercury. He was the messenger of the gods. Intdligence. Science.
Eloquence. Inventiveness. Movement. Mental and physical activity.
This is his “ charm ” in addition fertilised to some extent by surrounding
influences.
The Mercurian is thus dexterous, intuitive, subtle, a good or smart
speaker who can use his tongue either for good in the making of great
speeches, for the defence of Just causes, or for evil in order to deceive
the masses, betray, cajole, slander. They have “ by principle ” grace
and lightness, an indefatigable and prolonged youthfulness of soul,
a sympathetic manner. They are simple, adapt themselves to events,
have varied abilities.
1 Your Destiny.
* According to Denbarollea, following Porta's De Humana phytiognomonia.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
61
Mercurians become scholars, philosophers, geometers, doctors,
Iiostmen, grooms, commercial travellers, able merchants and industrials,
awyers and diplomats, comedians and dancers, and also, unfortunately,
thieves, spies, forgers.
The Mercurian is generally small, with a long face, a complexion
like n ew honey, forehead nigh and prominent, rarely a beard,
eyes deep set, very mobile, brilliant and crafty, the lips thin,
the chin pointed, big shoulders and broad chest, the limbs
both strong and thin, the voice weak.1 They have, in the
upper classes, quick and piercing thought, great love for sciences
and arts. Saturn and Mercury united sometimes produce
genius.
The good influence of Mercury inclines towards real superiority,
sobriety, a somewhat mocking gaiety, to study, the love of the family.
If bad, it makes thin, with grimacing face, sometimes hunchbacked
(and in those cases full of malice)8 inclined to error, to superstition,
to lying, to envy.
The influence of Mercury produces interm ittent fevers, stammering,
convulsions, catarrhs, certain diseases of the mind such as worries,
manias, madness.
Metal, m ercury; plants, fir, valerian, camomile. Perfume, benzoin.
Talismanic stones, agate and jasper. Animal, the dog. Colour, blue.
Most sensitive part, the lungs.
Jupiter. The anonymous scholar who is the author of Light of
Egypt says th a t this planet holds the scales between Saturnian slowness
and M artian haste. Its influence is beneficent. I t governs the noble
and generous parts of the human nature (goodwill, veneration,
spirituality, hope). I t “ symbolises the ethereal absorption into the
Cosmic Being, and represents accordingly the organ of smell by
means of which we apprehend the most subtle atoms.” Star of
great magnitude (it comes in size next to Saturn), it provides what is
good and compassionate in u s ; its action is frank, upright,
straightforward.
The Jupiterian has a fine soul, honest, charitable, sincere, a high
morality, humanitarian and philanthropic qualities. H e has a
feeling for justice, receives the gifts of sobriety, a high quality of
cheerfulness, virility, sympathetic seriousness. Physiologically, he
usually has chestnut hair, a high forehead, is tall, with smiling eyes,
crimson lips, calm and dignified bearing, a fresh complexion, clear
voice.
The Jupiterians produce doctors, judges, magistrates and priests,
1 As for instance Aristides, Plato .and many scholars.
> Almost all hunchbacks, Doebarollrs assures ua, are under the double influence oi Saturn
and Mercury.
A S T R O L O G Y
62 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
statesmen and bankers.1 Scholars and philosophers, too, bear the
sign-manual of this good planet.
Correspondences—violet, figtree, mushroom, aloe (as to perfume),
sapphire, purple, tin, pig.
Weak organ, the liver (the Jupiterian often sins through greediness).
Physical dangers, palpitations, bad blood (for they are sanguine).
As they get old they are inclined towards stoutness, baldness. They
are supposed to be lovers of sensual pleasures (what we would call
fast livers), fond of festivities and banquets, and also of settled con
ditions, order and social conventions. A proverb says of them, “ They
pass quickly out of poverty and puberty.”
If the influence is bad on account of the appearances (see later on)
of the planet at the moment of birth, the Jupiterian becomes proud,
vindictive, a spendthrift, lustful, orgiastic; he neglects his family to
pursue pleasure.
Among fine Jupiterian types were Rubens and Rossini.
Venus. The day of Venus has always been and still remains Friday,
as everyone knows. Oh, the lovely planet of love. . . . Happy is
he who enjoys the protection of the Star of Eve, in spite of its few
dangers!
Venus means beauty, gentleness, charm, gaiety, seductiveness,
taste for music, song and dance, harmony of the form and purity of
line, playfulness, generosity (and even improvidence), the desire to
please, love of show, jewellery, flowers and perfumes.
Franz Hartmann says, Venus is love. In ner lowest states she means
blind attraction, luxurious instincts. B ut in her higher aspects she
is the guide of artists and therapeutists. Tritely Venus leads to worldly
marriages and pleasures, to amorous free unions. Proudly she leads
to exalted love and sublime devotion.
The Venusian has deep red lips, a pink complexion, iridescent hair,
long lashes, charmingly dimpled cheeks, straight nose and smiling
mouth and eyes, a soft voice.2 But he sometimes likes the pleasures
of the senses to excess, and he suffers from weakness of the body, the
kidneys, and the genital organs.
Venus is the planet of artists, initiates, perfumers, courtesans. For
her metal she has copper, for colour, red*; for perfume, cinnamon;
1 Yes, we are willing to allow that Tradition foresees among theJupiteriana,doctors,judges,
magistrates and priests, all honest and noble. But aloe, how many would give the lie to this
astral sign if we did not know that many have not followed theirnaturalvocation,but,governed
by bad influences, have accepted positions for which they were not suited, or which merely
assured them a good income.
* The Venusian voice is tender, a little drawling, noble, full of charm. It becomes harsh
and husky through debauch ; just as animals at the time of heat have a hoarser voice.
■ Bo not be surprised if the correspondence as to colour varies amongdifferentwriters,and
see on this the other remarks in the present book.
A S T R O L O G Y 63
for stone, turquoise; for favourite plants, the bean and the syringa;
for animal, the goat.
If the Moon, remarks the author of the Light of Egypt, represents
the astral fluid in repose, Venus represents it in action. If maleficent
in a feminine horoscope, she produces debauched and venal 'women.
Otherwise she presides a t healthy pleasures, a t family and friendly
reunions. Unless it is strengthened by another influence, th at of
Venus abandons its subjects to their feelings and their desires; in
man it produces effeminacy, excessive susceptibility, even intemperance
and vice.
The sign-manual of Venus is not unlike that of Jupiter, but the
former is to some extent feminine, and the latter masculine. There
are few artists, says Desbarolles, who are not under the influence of
Venus, unless it be th at their art is the result of science and not of
inspiration.
Saturn. Pale and slow planet, star of mourning and of curse, emblem
of death and inertia, symbol of treachery and of cowardice: this is
above all the Star of Mischief!1.
Saturn destroys, like Mars, but slowly (you will remember, in
Mythology, Saturn devouring his children). I t is the dark reaper of
the babies, whom it carries off through croup, meningitis and con
vulsions. I t is the enemy of women, whom it makes barren. I t is
the spirit of evil, of lying, of perfidy, of defiance, of doubt, of sadness
and of neurasthenia.
The Saturnian, it is said, has an i ce of sadness; his shoulders
bent, body dry and long, eyes sm dark, chin angular, cheeks
hollow, cheekbones prominent, jaws heavy, lips thin, nose hooked,
a slow walk. H e is taciturn, avaricious, envious, insincere, but also
prudent, thoughtful, diplomatic. His virtues are, however, by no
means sympathetic.*
Saturn supplies us with monks, hermits, theologians, sorcerers,
agriculturists. His colour is orange, his metal lead, his perfume
sulphur, his animal the camel, his stones onyx and jet, his plants aconite
and cypress.
The Saturnian stands in special danger of paralysis, jaundice,
arthritis, deafness, trouble with the legs (varicose veins, lameness,
etc.).
B ut there are Satumians of a good type, and in them the definitions
given above will sometimes give interesting results. Some of them
are good occultists, become great in mathematics and the abstract
1 It willbe seenfarthercn that theTraditionwhichissohard onthfastar mast bo softened
as it es amceatratioa rather than cross.
' oly the so-called itttatort (thrower of the evil eye) truly corresponds to the type of
8*ten.
T
H
E
O
C
C
U
L
T
S
C
I
E
N
C
E
S «®*IK
u»auod
fav{So(09iu
8BSQXD$
J3i>p«ia
«na
*»oog
OOfHUJ
aow jPd
80UQAV
XspaodXH
i* a
P O Q
TOippqj
x ia o
Xddod
JXU(dlTlS van
fia u U }
a j|w » v
um jdo aSttsxo
m h o
sp&i p*a Xvpnn«S vm tos
OMB
wropsoq in t o
smrpnnod
fiw p n a
w n d
«9|U |«|9b h
*®PA
» * n
X|U8a|OI
®oP*!M IO 6|pM l0
ipca&d
iBsqifoig
*W sanitldcs
m
aoiV a u a
TBOOJt(imn
o j )2m
W !A 3{dlD<
I
wapsiM
# *q*PH
iju o q io y
CSMIpMO iep u n q x, n o d n f
**np=s
csttO ftturea
u » p )n g
snoaSmS
stn(ununo
SlQiUQ/H
WP*«W
«C J
{On S u m s
*3amoo jadapx
W )
n°M
XqnH
1«Xqj»aiv
» t* a
3jpeO OOI] aqiupqV MOIPA
jadtn»x
q itea its X op»nx vow
*»n»“ » f
snrw ycuo
VMBQp»d
■MJVV
)«OJqX
« t« !N
« m io o
slsn p i^
tpstno)5 M 01 iCmxnq
»Aoa
ip a
p o o
P|SBQ 3
asfonbxnj.
TtoanQQ}3
■oaq»A a d in
o » a
«2u)4Xs
J F I P>H
X)OOQ
• ao ^
i XoPHJ « n»A
eovtpem»3
3£0}ttIQ
o n csrajfQfl
tita& v
tn S u m H
mxSb o x
q g n
sn n r| aApepPI x*oa
jairod
X»n>H
*>a
X * 3 H
a»«*V
xadrtmf
tlpTOQ itta a n
afjm oano
oqjn®A
9QIS
»nrtR «
tsrapng
ssrasDoaoSoi X»psaop»AV in w R
l
i
Z
i
l
qseaxo)5
S9AX»K
tzpug BopnnScui] W B}tS7
B U S
1 0
& np»a
pBRDBId
p o d
■Ml
« t « v aa«!S QM1Q
IW H BpPJ
AsaufosoiQ
00000)9801 Xopoojf w o «
tKnts»|oxd iw * °n
8S»poai Xtnjry
fryw]«j
0W S P *P»H
wp»UV
W H W BipS »PUd n on
8paaqj>3 ■daijotpH
P P 9
Q06B31
»5|A
pjm ri T O
aof)vq ooa
v * n iopn ns nns
UVd 8HV080 on in vn Q MS 1TH1HV SMOIS i« » S i v i s k w r y 8APX03 970QKAS AVQ
(SHOHiciv saoiavA ox oN iaaooov) saixH H aoaa h ih h x o n v sx a N n x s h x ao a is v x
TABLE OF PLANETARY TYPES BOTH PHYSICAL AND MORAL
AS DRAWN AND SUMMED UP AFTER MADAME DE THEBES
J u p i t e r . S a t u r n .
Figure .. Tall Toll i
Appearance
Shoulders
Fino
Brood
Thin
High
Head .. High Low
Eyes Blue, smiling Dull and fishy
Nose Medium Big
Mouth Classic Large jaws
Teeth Vory line Nasty
Eyebrows
Hair
Regular
Light brown
Bushy
Dull black
Beard Fair, wavy Black and
thin
Voice Pleasant Hollow
Complexion Lily and rose Dark, dull
Skin Crushed Brown, oily
strawberry
Peculiarities Premature Prominent
obesity cheekbones
Qualities.. Generous Ambitious
Defects .. Giddy,
unfaithful
Love of money
Character Cheery, bright Old and sad
Morels Charitable Dissimulating
Abilities .. Government Mines, farming!
Signs Without Taciturn
rancour
S o n . M e r c u r y . M a r s . M o o n .
Medium Small Tall Very tall
Fine Elegant Robust Weak
Proportioned Broad Big Drooping
Expressive Long face Short neck Round face
Light brown Black, bright Grey or brown Blue
Fine and straight Slightly pointed Aquiline Short, round
Medium Than Sensual lips
Shaped like saw
Foolish
Well set Small Big, yellow
Well arched Well arched Close set Anyhow
Golden, fine,
silky
Dark chestnut Red Tow
Fair, curly Almost black Red Thinniah
Nice tone Weak, heady Strong and
sonorous
Drawling
Swarthy Pale Congested
Red
Milky white
Yellow and red Colour of honey White
Good looking Mobile faoe Square chin Fat chin
Honest Clever, worker Brave Modest
Cruel Dishonest Great eater
and drinker
Lazy
Magnanimous Intriguing Aggressive,
violent
Loose liver
Fantastic
Chaste, generous Unscrupulous Weak-willed
Modem arts Science, industry Fights, war Quiet life
Accident by fire Always lying Always bank Inconstant
Ve s o t .
Ideal
Perfect
Proportioned
Fine oval
Liquid brown
Regular
Small
Pretty
Well arched
Bright black
Slight, wavy
Soft
Mat pink
Brown
Groat beauty
Amiable
Wanton
Impatient
Lovee pleasure
Music
Unfaithful
A
S
T
R
O
L
O
G
Y
68
Mixtures of astral fluids. As we have said, no one is ever under
a single astral influence. Astrology, very truthful in this respect, states
fully th at on the one hand we must take the dominant into account,
and on the other hand the resultant. We give here a few resultants,
quoting from Desbarolles, who compares the combinations of the
celestial signs-manual to the mixtures of colours on a palette.
Saturn and Jupiter, if good, give gentleness and philosophy. Further
the Sun adds to all the planets physical beauty and exact understanding.
United to a good Mercury, Saturn brings mental and physical pleasures,
even genius. If bad, the two stars produce dangerous types, for
Saturn collects evil and Mercury emits it. If favourable, Mars tempers
the Saturnian cowardice, turning it into prudence and courage; if
unfavourable, Mars accentuates defects already strong and drives to
S
aradox and cynicism. Venus inclines Saturnians to jealousy, to
ebauch.
Jupiter and the Sun combined bring happiness, glory and wealth.
Jupiter and Mercury produce a quick intellect, especially good doctors,
honourable and honoured men; but if these two are in opposition
(see farther on the chapter on appearances), the results are shallow
boasters, noisy and of ill-repute. Combined with Mars, Jupiter gives
daring tempered with wisdom (great warriors) or if evil, insolent,
ferocious and rebellious types. Venus makes the Jupiterian cheerful,
simple, truthful, a lover of life and of spending.
The Sun strengthens the Mercurian eloquence, rectifies the lunar
imagination, adds benevolence to the charm of Venus. Somewhat
childish intellectuals stand under the double sign-manual of Apollo
and Venus, as for instance Sterne and La Fontaine.
The combined good influence of Mercury and Venus produces
wonderful artists. Mars and the Moon mark famous navigators, as
Columbus, Lapeyrouse and Cook, their evil influence corsairs. Mars
and Venus favour amorous ardour.
We can by ourselves and after consideration multiply and resolve
these combinations. See also, farther on in the chapter on Physiogno-
mony, the views on this subject of M. Paul Jagot.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
IV
The Signs of the Zodiac and ike properties of the Constellations of
the Zodiac
The ring of the firmament, the circular zone whose centre is occupied
by the Elliptic and which contains the twelve constellations through
which the sun seems to travel in the course of a year is called in
69
Astronomy the Zodiac, name taken in fact from Astrology which described
its twelve parts, corresponding to the twelve months, by twelve signs
called zodiacal signs.1
Each of these signs therefore corresponds to a constellation. Here
are their names, signs and dates which should be rem em bered:—
S p r i n g
The Ram.—From 21st March to 19th April inclusive.
Taurus.—From 20th April to 20th May inclusive.
Gemini.—From 21st May to 20th June inclusive.
S u m m e r
Cancer.—From 2lst June to 22nd July inclusive.
Leo.—From 23rd July to 22nd August inclusive.
Virgo.—From 23rd August to 21st September inclusive.
A u t u m n
Libra.—From 22nd September to 21st October inclusive.
8corpio.—From 22nd October to 20th November inclusive.
Sagittarius.—From 21st November to 20th December inclusive.
W i n t e r
Capricorn.—From 21st December to 19th January inclusive.
Aquarius.—From 20th January to 18th February inclusive.
Pisces.—From 19th February to 20th March inclusive.
A S T R O L O G Y
Notes:—
1. The signs run anti-clockwise.
2. The astrological year commences in spring.
8. On the basis of the four elements, the ancients grouped the
signs in the following m anner:—
Assigned to Fire:—Ram, Leo, Sagittarius.
Assigned to Earth:—Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn.
Assigned to Air:—Gemini, LJbra, Aquarius.
Assigned to Water:—Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces.
1 Important note.—It must always be remembered that the Zodiac, which is the terrestrial
or ecliptio orbit, is in reality an ellipse represented by a circle. It ia an imaginary closed curve,
which is not, as many seem to think, the total of the constellations whose names are identified
with its signs. For the precession of the equinoxes has the result that this identification takes
place only once in about 25,000 years. Thus at the present time it is tbo constellation of Pisces
which corresponds to the sign of the Ram. Thus it is not the signs of the Zodiao but the sections
of the Zodiac which in all probability exert their influence, influence of tones rather than of stars,
as Paul Flambart observes.
70
4. The constellations consist offixed stars, as opposed to the planets
which the ancients looked upon as moving stars. I t is understood that
in Astronomy such stars are not in reality fixed stars, but as the whole
of our Universe moves in a concerted movement, things happen much
as if they were fixed, as they are found in the same places at the same
periods.1 Astrology limits itself to the influences oi the seven visible
planets and the twelve constellations of the Zodiac.
According to whether at the moment of a birth the twelve signs
of the Zodiac are in conjunction with this or the other planet, they
modify (for good or for evil) the portents of such planet. The following
are their astrological properties:—
The Bam.—I t governs spring. I t walks at the head of the flock
of the stars (whence its name). I t is ruled by Mars. Its day is Tuesday,
its colour red, its stone the amethyst. Its influence is bad during the
whole of its thirty days, or rather its thirty degrees (it must be remem
bered that the 860 days or degrees of the Zodiac give thirty days or
degrees for each of the twelve signs) unless its entry into the (astrological)
new year takes place on its own day..
Being a Martian constellation, it rules the instincts, the forces, gives
to its subjects a very strong will, an active intellect, abundant vitality,
irritability, generosity, affection. In short the influence of Mars is
benignant to it. I t presides, physically, at everything which concerns
the head.
' Predictions (Ely Star):—Variable luck, conjugal differences, broken
friendships, few or no children, situation not easily settled, many
enemies and jealousies.
Taurus.—(Venus, Friday, green, agate), symbol of agricultural
fertility, rules work and gain, and consequently favours the latter
provided the former perseveres. Venus gives it gaiety, amiability
and fecundity. I t governs the neck.
Taurus makes self-opinionated, difficult to get on with, grudge
bearing, but gives upright and inquiring mind, capable of ruling,
conservative in thoughts and things.
Predictions:—Relatively calm life, disturbed only by disputes
due to the obstinacy of the subject himself. Many but comparatively
useless friends. Life long if the subject itself does not shorten it.
Gemini (Mercury, Wednesday, grey, beryl) rule the affections,
develop filial love and friendship into devotion and even an excessive
selflessness. Gemini symbolise union, the mother of strength. Through
this constellation Mercury gives to its subjects intelligence, initiative,
and also some amount of inconstancy. This sign governs the shoulders
and the arms.
Love of arts, sciences.
* The variation Is negligible.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Predictions:—Unstable position. Worries and troubles. Long
unions. Enemies and connections themselves to be feared.
Cancer (Moon, Monday, blue, emerald) is also called Crab. Its
subjects, delicate, arc predisposed to mediocrity. They are generally
presumptuous, impressionable, romantic, paradoxical. Its women
are probably fertile. Presiding over the lungs, the chest, the stomach,
it inclines to cancer and tuberculosis.
A S T R O L O G Y 71
Settled life. Quick wit. Discretion.
Predictions:—luck in the latter part of life. Happy family life.
Leo(Sun, Sunday, yellow, ruby) favours strength, courage, generosity,
devotion, fidelity, firmness, strong feelings. Persons marked by it
are ambitious, strong-minded, keen on honours. I t rules the heart
and the back, and predisposes to pleurisy, palpitations, fever.
72
Sudden anger but quickly over. Love of wealth and pleasure.
Strong and considered passions. Burning opinions.
Predictions:—Wealth acquired unaided out apt to be lost un
expectedly. Brothers, sisters or relatives harmful. Long illnesses.
Family embroilments. Possibility of honour and fame. Friends
numerous but unimportant. Enemies who will tire. Rheumatic
and geniculary pains. Disease of the bladder probable.
Virgo (Mercury, Wednesday, grey, jasper). She comes, crowned
with corn, and rules the womb, the intestines, the genital organs.
She produces sympathetic sanguine types, gives prudence, tact and
ingenuity, love of economy and ability m business. This sign inclines
towards virtue and the liberal arts, also towards agriculture.
Predictions :—Wealth acquired by brains. Mysteries or irregulari
ties in the family. Difficulties in love. Struggle before being able to
live one’s own life. Frequent journeys. Few and changeable friends.
Hidden enemies.
Libra (Venus, Friday, green, diamond). Period of equable days,
governs the kidneys and threatens bladder trouble. Constellation of
justice and equity, it favours artistic minds, the amorous passions
of women, contracts and connections. Its subjects sometimes incline
to a fallacious fraternity, a routine which confines them to inferior posi
tions. They lack dash and daring, but they are gentle and of good life.
Predictions:—Instability of the family. Change of position in
middle life. Highly placed protectors.
Scorpio (Mars, Tuesday, red, topaz) has a bad bearing, for it is a
season abounding in illnesses. Governing the sexual ports and the
matrix, it predisposes to fistula; its subjects are generally energetic,
tenacious, spiteful, jealous. Scorpio is a sign of fights, duels, accidents,
lawsuits, treachery. I t endows with various excesses.
Predictions:—Scorpio always promises, for some day or another,
money, and often a large family, sometimes two marriages, one of
which is not very happy. Heart trouble due to a cruel loss by death.
Good position late in fife.
Sagittarius (Jupiter, Thursday, blue, turquoise). Symbol of the
date of hunting, governs the hips, causes falls from a horse, makes
the character enigmatic, gives love of hunting, of science or art, energy,
an ordered mind. The influence of Jupiter adds wisdom, honour,
discrimination.
Character remaining cheerful. Simple manners. Mistrust and
timidity. Calm passions.
Predictions:—Family embroilments. Short but frequent illnesses.
Numerous removals. Useful social connections. Relentless slanders.
Capricorn (Saturn, Saturday, black, onyx) makes its organs delicate,
that is, the knees; its types are mournful, with thin face, impassive, but
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
73
concealing ambition, the desire for honours, egoism, arrivism, the
use of doubtful expedients; this sign predisposes to broken bones,
rheumatism and skin diseases.
Inconstancy of the affections. Not very prolific. Quickness and
good eyesight.
Predictions:—Hostile family. Great struggles. Mobility of life.
Several marriages.
Aquarius (Saturn, Saturday, black, sapphire). Its weak organs
are calves and ankles. Dangers: Cramp and spasmodic illnesses.
This constellation, dangerous to travellers by sea, gives to its subjects
discretion, fidelity, thoughtfulness, mysticism, a love of the fine arts,
benevolence in the ruler, submission in the ruled. The constitution
of people born under this sign (which predisposes to altruism) is good.
Graceful mind. Firm will. Patience and hard work. Strong and
lasting passions.
Predictions:—Danger of wounds. Marriage with artist. Falls
and rises alternating. Helping friends. Expensive removals.
Pisces (Jupiter, Thursday, blue, chrysolith). This sign governs
feet and toes. It predisposes to ulcers and arthritis. I t makes indolent,
timid, variable, gentle. It foretells danger, ruin, treachery, dishonour,
violent death. I t is a maleficent star giving to its subjects a leaning
to hypocrisy and slander. It has been said to be “ the Hell of the
Zodiac.”
Predictions:—Threat of treachery. Violent events in the fam ily;
but high positions may be hoped for, also the favour of the great and
lasting friendships.
By way of reference we insert here a small table showing the
mythological connections of the signs of the Zodiac and a summary
of their influences. We found it in an old “ Art ofForetellingtheFuture ”
of 1821, signed by Aldegonde Perenna “ Provensal Sybil.”
Libra. Themis, Love of lawsuits.
Scorpio. Orion was changed by Diana into this animal. Malice and
knavery.
Sagittarius. Chiron the Centaur. Love of hunting and travelling.
Capricorn. The Goat Amalthea. Thoughtlessness and impulsiveness.
Aquarius. Ganymede. Gaiety.
Pisces. The Dolphins who carried Amphitrite. Gentleness.
Ram. The one of the Golden Fleece. Violent emotions.
Taurus. Jupiter carrying off Europa. Boldness and strength,
Gemini. Castor and Pollux. Friendship.
Crab. The one which bit Hercules. Bothers.
Leo. The lion of the Ncmean Forest. Courage.
Virgo. Astrea. Chastity.
A S T R O L O G Y
74
I t will be seen that the ascriptions of this method are not very
profound. Too many popular books do not go beyond interpretations
of this kind, which obviously do not overtax the brain of the com*
mentators.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
V
The Twelve Houses o f the Sky
The annual course of the sun in Astrology is divided into twelve
stages corresponding to the twelve months, to the twelve signs of the
Zodiac. These twelve stages constitute twelve divisions which are
named dwellings, houses of the sky, or more usually solar houses. They
are described merely by numbers, and to each of them is attached an
influence which is exercised no longer solely on the human being itself,
but on his life and all the events connected therewith. We give below
the table of their meanings.
First House. I t relates to the vital forces and personal connections,
that is to say our temperament, our qualities, defects and flaws, to our
general happiness or unhappiness, to the success or failure of our
existence which, in one word, may be successful or spoilt. It is the
House of Life.
Second House. This corresponds with our expectations of success—
occupations, posts, employments, their profits or their benefits, in one
word the material success of our work. It is the House of Wealth.
Third House. It is the house of the relations between brothers
and sisters and the consequences of these relations. It is the House
of Collaterals.
Fourth House. Financial position, means of existence, inheritances,
and consequently near relatives, intimate family life. It is the House
of the Family.
Fifth House. Our children. Our affairs of the heart. Our morality,
our speculations, games, pleasures, love affairs. Our faith and our
trust. According to Mme. de Thebes, it is above all the House of the
Children.
Sixth House. Informs us about our organic constitution, our health,
our inferiors and our enemies. “ I t is the most important,” says
Ely Star. “ Woe to him who at his birth finds one of the three bad
signs (Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces) in this solar house, especially if one
o f the three evil planets (Moon, Mars or Saturn) comes to aggravate
the malign influence of this sign. Even if he should be born on the
steps of a throne, with this fatidic planetary appearance he is condemned
to an unhappy life or to a disastrous en d ! ” I t is the House o f Health,
says Mme. de Thebes more neatly and more simply.
Seventh House. I t is that of matrimonial contracts and associations,
of lawsuits and enmities, of all th at belongs to our relations with
strangers. I t is what according to various authors is called in one word
the House o f Marriage.
Eighth House. It gives information on the struggles and obstacles
of the life of the subject: lawsuits, vexations, separations, divorces,
mournings, wounds, accidents. I t marks the professions which in
some way or other are connected with death, doctors, surgeons, butchers,
executioners, and also spiritists, mediums, occultists. I t similarly
governs the consequences of death, such as wills, legacies, dowries,
and further the forebodings, fatalities, relations with the Beyond.
It is the House o f Death.
N inth House. The ruler of the intellect—capability, ambition,
journeys and their results, dreams and prophecies, religion and occult
sciences. I t is specially concerned with Churchmen. It is the. House
o f Religion.
Tenth House. Of extreme influence, called the Centre of the Sky,
because it is at the top of the Circle. I t is the home of wealth, of
honours, of glory. I t gives information as to the part which the subject
will play on the stage of the world, whether brilliant or modest,
ephemeral or lasting. I t marks the Heads of the State, in the male
horoscope the father of the family, in the female the mother. It is
the House o f Honours.
Eleventh House. It governs our friends and our social relations,
indicates the kind and the degree of sympathy which is shewn to us,
the value of those who protect or lead us. I t also throws light on our
plans and our hopes. It is the House o f Friendship.
Twelfth House. I t is that of misfortune, of difficulties, of ruin, of exile
and imprisonment, of trials, scandal, social disaster. It is called the
Hell of the Zodiac in comparison with the Sixth which faces it and is
called the Paradise of the Zodiac. The beneficent planets which
dwell in this accursed lodging bring to it but small and transitory
consolation. It is the House o f Enemies.
A S T R O L O G Y 75
The solar Houses are fixed in the sky. Thus they receive in turn
the twelve signs of the Zodiac with their influence.
Thus the Ram is found at the start in the first house, then in April
it passes to the second, in May to the third, etc. On each it sheds its
rays. Whence the necessity, as will be seen farther on, when casting
a horoscope, of marking the place of the signs in the various “ houses
of the sky.”
76
Below are two practical designs showing at a glance the place of the
solar houses and helping in the casting of a horoscope:—
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
SOUTH
CONFIGURATION OF THE TWELVE SOLAR HOUSES.
It will be seen on the one hand that the order of the houses must
be read anti-clockwise, and on the other hand the relative importance
of the placing of the houses will be seen:—
At the top is the 10th house, the royal dwelling of the horoscope,
the most important symbol—the general part which the subject plays
on earth.
Immediately opposite, at the nadir, the 4th house, governing the
private life, whilst the 10th house orders the public life.
At No. 1, the first house (the Ascendant) shows the temperament
and the personal affairs. At No. 7, facing it, help or hindrance for these
initiatives.
At No. 6, the Paradise of the Zodiac; at No. 12, facing it, the Hell
of the Zodiac. These oppositions, these symmetries are remarkable,
and show the depth of the meaning of the hermetic philosophy of the
Astrologers.V
I
VI
Relative Positions and Cycles
The relative positions are the places which the planets occupy in
relation to each other. The ancients attached considerable importance
to this, and had classified them as follow s:—
1. Conjunction.—Meeting of planets in the same solar house.
2. Twelfthposition.—Distance of 30 degrees between two planets.
3. Sixth position.—Distance of 60 degrees between two planets.
4. Quadrature.—Distance of 90 degrees between two planets.
77
5. Thirdposition.—Distance of 120 degrees between two planets.
6. Fifthposition.—Distance of 150 degrees between two planets.
7. Opposition.—Distance of 180 degrees between two planets.
Meaning of these positions :—
Quadrature and opposition:—bad.
Third and sixth:—favourable.
Twelfth, fifth and conjunction:—indifferent.
We shall return to this later on.
Some astrologers had further considered the division of Time into
cycles of thirty-six years, each dominated by one of the seven planetary
“ spirits.” In case anyone might like to use it in the casting of a
horoscope, Ely Star drew up the table from 1729 to 1908. I t shows
the following cycles1 to which we have added one for the present
time :—
Cycle of theSun;—From 1729 to 1764.
Cycle of Saturn:—From 1765 to 1800.
Cycleof Venus:—From 1801 to 1836.
Cycle of Jupiter:—From 1837 to 1872.
Cycle of Mercury:—From 1873 to 1908.
CycleofMars:—From 1909 to 1944. (Is this the reasonof the Great War 1)
He gives details of each cycle. We will confine ourselves to the
two la st:—
CycleofMercury (1873 to 1908).
Mercury, 1873 to 1880, etc., every seven years.
The Moon, 1874 to 1881, etc. „ „ „
Saturn, 1875 to 1882, etc. „ „ „
Jupiter, 1876 to 1883, etc. „ „ „
Mars, 1877 to 1884, etc. „ „ „
The Sun, 1878 to 1885, etc. „ „ „
Venus, 1879 to 1886, etc. „ „ „
CycleofMars (1909 to 1944).
Mars, 1909 to 1916, etc. „ „ „
The Sun, 1910 to 1917, etc. „ „ „
Venus, 1911 to 1918, etc. „ „ „
Mercury, 1912 to 1919, etc. „ „ „
The Moon, 1913 to 1920, etc. „ „ „
Saturn, 1914 to 1921, etc. „ „ „
Jupiter, 1915 to 1922, etc. „ „ „
The year 1925 of the cycle of Mars is thus dominated by Venus.
*The planets governing the cycles are placed in contrary sequence to the days of the week.
In each eyole the initial planet is the same as that of the cycle. The sequence of the planete
is always the same.
A S T R O L O G Y
78 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
VII
The Decani and their Properties
The astrologers give added precision to the astral influences by
dividing the period of thirty days ruled by each sign of the Zodiac
into three decades, each of which receives the magnetism of a separate
planet which takes charge of it and becomes its “ Lord.”
These decades are called decani (at bottom the same word). We
have drawn up a table below of the twelve signs each divided into
three decani with the name of its planetary Lord.
SlOK Dt o a t io h o f Dbc a h u s Lo r d o p Dbo a h u s
The Bam .. lstdecanus from 21st March to 30th March .. .. Mars
2nd decanus from 31st March to 9th April .. .. Sun
3rd decanus from 10th April to 19th April .. .. Venus
Taurus .. 1st decanus from 20th April to 30th April .. .. Mercury
2nd decanus from 1st May to 10th M a y ............... Moon
3rd decanus from 11th May to 20th May............... Saturn
Gemini .. lstdecanus from 21st May to 30th M ay............... Jupiter
2nd decanus from 31st May to 9th J u n e ............... Mars
3rd decanus from 10th June to 20th June .. .. Sun
Cancer .. 1st decanus from21st June to 1st J u l y ................Venus
2nd decanus from2nd July to 11th J u ly ................Mercury
3rd decanus from 12th July to 22nd July................Moon
Leo .. 1st decanus from23rd July to 1st August
2nd decanus from2nd August to 11th August
3rd decanus from 12th August to 22nd August
Saturn
Jupiter
Mars
Virgo .. 1st decanus from23rd August to 1st September
2nd decanus from2nd September to 11th September
3rd decanus from 12th September to 21st September
Sun
Venus
Mercury
Libra .. .. 1st decanus from 22nd September to 1st October .. Moon
2nd decanus from2nd'October to 11th October .. Saturn
3rd decanus from 12th October to 21st October .. Jupiter
Scorpio .. 1st decanus from 22nd October to 31st October .. Mars
2nd decanus from 1st November to 10th November Sun
3rd decanus from 11th November to 20th November Venus
Sio n
Sagittarius 1st decanus
2nd decanus
3rd decanus
Capricorn .. 1st decanns
2nd decanns
3rd decanns
Aquarius .. 1st decanns
2nd decanns
3rd decanus
Pisces .. .. -let decanus
2nd decanus
3rd decanus
Du r a t io n o f Dboa ht js Lo r d o f Dbo a n u s
from 21st Novemberto 30th November Mercury
from 1st December to 10th December Moon
from 11th December to 20th December Saturn
from 21st December to 30th December Jupiter
from 31st December to 9th January .. Mars
from 10th January to 19th January .. Sun
from 20th January to 29th January .. Venus
from 30th January to 8th February .. Mercury
from 9th February to 18th February .. Moon
from 19thFebruary to 28th February.. Saturn
from 1st March to 10th March .. Jupiter
from 11th March to 20th March .. .. Mars
A S T R O L O G Y 79
Let us sum up the properties of the decani according to the little
book of Professor Enigma, beginning with the astronomical year.1
January.—(a) From 81st December to 9th Jan u ary :—2nd decanus
of Capricorn. Lord of the Decanus :—Mars.
Capricorn makes his subject ambitious, self-willed, capable and
persevering. Mars adds to this fearlessness in attaining his aim, and
the taste for battle. We may foretell an advantageous marriage,
but possibilities of divorce and of various accidents. However, the
planet governing the day of nativity, that is the Lord of the Day,
brings modifications. Thus Jupiter tempers the violence of the being
bom under the Martian sign-manual of Capricorn, and also his am bition;
he gives some wisdom and inclines to integrity. Venus under the sign
of Capricorn foretells amorous and domestic difficulties, but also
successes, legacies, good luck. Saturn adds to the ahove-named
influences envy and egotism, servility towards superiors and harshness
towards inferiors, and threat of an unhappy end. The Sun brings
temporary high protection and the risk of doubtful health. The Moon,
mistress of the day, will, as may be guessed, incline towards great
dreams, vanity, indolence. Mars will naturally double his influence,
whence violence, great muscular strength, love of battle. Mercury
will make the intellect gay, mocking, perhaps slanderous, with a love
of eloquence and the occult sciences.
(b) From the 10th to the 19th January:—8rd decanus of Capricorn,
governed by the Sun as its Lord.
General influence:—Pride, authoritativeness, discretion, mental
power, delicate constitution, success in undertakings, high but unstable
position.
* For the reason already mentioned, and as will already have been observed, we make
reservations on the outer form (height, colour of hair, etc.) given by the astrological data
8 0
With Jupiter as Lord of the day, as always, added wisdom, a little
melancholy, few irregular passions, marriage of reason. W ith Venus,
ardour and inconstancy, amiability and charm, leanings towards
luxury, licentiousness in the man, coquetry in the woman; for both
vanity, sexual diseases, numerous liaisons. W ith Saturn, obstinacy,
sullenness, danger of neurasthenia, taste for manual labour, foresight,
acquisition of land, little love, celibacy. With the Sun, its influence
doubled, therefore very beneficent, dignitv, aptitude for command.
With the Moon, much imagination, but little energy, fantastic mood
and excess in enthusiasm and in discouragement. W ith Mars, quick
impulse, heroism, jealousy. W ith Mercury, initiative, perspicacity
ana distrust.
(c) From the 20th to the 29th January:—Aquarius (1st decanus)
Venus.
Expansiveness, confidence, affection, good health, lack of foresight.
Influenced by Jupiter, indulgence, friendships, popularity, success
through women; by Venus, leaning to adultery, to pleasure, to thriftless
ness, little effort and diligence; by Saturn, thoughtfulness, meditation,
restlessness, isolation, worries, hidden vices, unhappiness in love,
taciturnity. By the Sun, mysticism, spiritist influence, fear of death
and of the beyond; by the Moon, fanciful mind, incompetence in the
conduct of business, slowness, but posterity, sad ending of life; by
Mars, aggressive character, embroilments, rivalries, risk of violent
death; Dy Mercury, lack of scruples, tendency to theft, to treachery,
to the exploitation of others.
February.—(a) From the 80th January to the 8th February:—
Aquarius (2nd decanus) Mercury.
Generally:—Sympathetic character, fine intellect, regular life,
common sense.
But Jupiter adds pride, incapacity for serious study, false judgm ent;
Venus the promise or gain by the Fine Arts, the Theatre or Song, good
family relations; Saturn intellectual powers, faithfulness, the promise
of success in undertakings and connections; the Sun power ana guile;
the Moon a fertile imagination, leaning to sleepwalking, success in
hazardous undertakings; Mars lack of foresight, daring, the hatred
of superiors, and yet military tastes; Mercury finally will double his
own influence so as to make life honest, without excess of happiness
or unhappiness, average health, a happy and simple marriage, pleasant
relations.
(b) From the 9th to the 18th February (8rd decanus), Moon.
Wild imagination bringing disappointments. Lack of initiative,
easily influenced. However, Jupiter will have here, as usual, a
beneficent influence, bring good luck, prosperity, good health, safe
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
81
friendships, good fortune socially, in love and in finance; Venus will
add indolence, lade of foresight, source of reverses, bad luck in love
for w om en; Saturn will make the women irregular, the men sensual,
but will give them a restraining prudence; from the Sun w ill come self*
confidence, m ixed with self-sufficiency; the Moon will bring its fantastic
note—Mars its bad instincts; Mercury egotism, ruthlessness, hypocrisy.
(c) From the 19th to the 28th or 29th February: first decanus of
Pisces, with Saturn as Lord of this decanus.
Here we have the worried type driven by anguish, for whom lie
in wait relentless foes, unhappiness of all kinds, a tragic end, and worse
still a lamentable reputation.
If Jupiter intervenes, they will be proud, defiant, difficult, marrying
b ad ly; their temperament will be harsh, stem , obstinate. They
will have to beware of illnesses of the kidneys, the chest and the bones.
If Venus comes, they will be anxious to please, have secret and romantic
liaisons, low tastes, genital diseases, few or no children. If Saturn
rules, the tragedy of their lot will be doubled. They will have every
thing to fear:—hatred, slander, ruin, a bad end, a poor and difficult
occupation, an unhappy marriage, in short a life full of trials. But
with the Sun a little less bad luck, but sudden changes, cunning but not
very powerful enemies, strength in fight, a sternness inclining them
towards philosophy and religion. Under the Moon, their life will
probably be unsettled, their mood contem plative and fairly cheerful,
they will be sociable, and probably reach a ripe old age in the country.
If Mars rules, this belligerent planet will give them rough manners,
obstinacy, love of drink, little taste for fam ily life, vehem ent but short
liaisons. If Mercury, common sense will restrain them , they will have
initiative, eloquence, occasional friends and some successes.
March.— (a) From the 1st to the 10th ; 2nd decanus of P isces;
Jupiter.
Success late in life, after critical periods. Irregular life. Thought
lessness.
Jupiter will be doubly beneficent at this period, incline towards
happy fam ily life, alert mind, open character, sobriety and kindliness.
Venus w ill give an early marriage full of charm and graciousness,
sensuality, and many children. Saturn will bring his leaning to distrust,
envy, love of science, sensual love, avariciousness, will make youth
difficult and hard working, help in the acquisition of landed property.
The Sun will try to give calm in obscurity, useful friendships, confidence,
but will allow lack of foresight to subsist. The Moon will bring her
discouragements, her neurasthenia, her indecision and her diffidence.
Mars will always have his genius for quarrels, biliousness, sudden anger,
jealousy, extravagance. And Mercury his lack of fine feeling, his self
A S T R O L O G Y
8 2
restraint, his commercial abilities, his taste for vice which hides under
honest appearances.
(b) From the 11th to the 20th; 8rd decanus of Pisces and their
lord Mars.
A troubled and original life, made up of pride and indolence. _
Jupiter will prevent sane judgment and bestow a fatal ambition
made of inefficient and vain self-esteem, intelligence but also laziness,
skill without flexibility. Success is not very probable in either sex.
Venus will be worse, infuse sensuality on top of the indolence, give the
women a dangerous beauty, an inordinate love of pleasure, a constant
infidelity, a predisposition to sexual diseases. Saturn will supply
an exacting, malevolent and diplomatic imperiousness, a ferocious
arrivism, and in their support, energy, activity, powerful relations.
The Sun will harmonise these dispositions both physically and morally
—uprightness, chivalry, generosity, devotion. The Moon will deepen
the indolence and carelessness, the taste for travel, for petty love
affairs ending in tired distaste. Mars will give exactitude of outlook,
clever hands, aptitude, independence, violent love affairs, leaning
towards fighting and sports, taste for iron industries. Mercury wifi
supply his materialistic, pleasure loving, superficial, hypocritical mind,
quick a t imposing on his inferiors, his harsh, distrustful, inquisitive and
wild nature.
(c) From the 21st to the 80th March:—Ram, first decanus, dominated
by Mars.
The astrological year starts in the circle of the Zodiac on the 21st
March. Those who are born under this sign will have vitality, strength,
obstinacy, impatience, daring, bravery.
Jupiter will add good health-bringing cheerfulness, self-confidence,
imperious will, activity; Venus fervent and somewhat romantic feelings,
coquetry and vanity; Saturn slowness of intellect and taciturnity;
the Sun integrity and love of peace, strength and brilliant faculties:
the Moon her customary originality made up of imagination and
prodigality; Mars daring and tem per; Mercury acuteness and
eloquence.
■April,—(a) From the 81st March to the 9th April, 2nd decanus of
the Ram with the Sun.
Who says Sun says nobility, conscience, success, respect.
If Jupiter intervenes, benevolence, integrity, firmness, in the case
of women leaning towards free union. If it is Venus, her charm, her
goodness, faithfulness and the love of art. If it is Saturn, prudence,
daring, avariciousness. If it is the Sun, doubling of the initial good
influence. In the case of the Moon, trouble by reason of leanings
towards laziness and luxury. In the case of Mars, boldness, irritability
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
83
and vanity, but activity, intelligence, leading to fortune. If it is
Mercury, his persuasive eloquence, perverted love and very liberal
ideas.
(6) From the 10th to the 10th April, 8rd decanus of the Ram, Venus.
Venus foretells beauty, charm, modesty, moral pleasures.
Jupiter presupposes a rich and well-matched marriage, influential
connections; Venus wealthy connections, but in the woman misconduct;
Saturn perverseness, impotence and hatred: the Sun its customary
good qualities; the Moon her eternal chimeras and her lack of balance;
Mars guile and disappointments; Mercury dislike of love and the
family, leanings towards mystery and fear of death.
(c) From the 20th to the 80th April, first decanus of Taurus, Mercury.
Taurus means fertility, perseverance, intelligence, strong wilL
Jupiter modifies this sign by adding to it self-restraint and a
domineering spirit. Venus brings her bad qualities of coquetry, risk
of desertion and poverty. Saturn demands constant hard work and
threatens various troubles. The Sun here is very favourable. The
Moon is satisfied, with bringing changeableness, Mars reverses, Mercury
very varied abilities and irrational feelings.
May.—(a) From the 1st to the 10th, 2nd decanus of Taurus, Moon.
From this month on we will be shorter, so as not to overburden this
chapter, for it will have been understood from the preceding particulars,
th at the same planets always, according to their own influence, modify
the general influence somewhat in a direction which can from now
onward be guessed at.
Here, for instance, we have predictions of bizarre and capricious
luck. If Jupiter intervenes it will be to bring his spirit of justice,
calm and goodwill. If it is Venus, wise love and taste for art. If it
is Saturn, nis bad qualities. If the Sun, his well known influence for
good. If the Moon, her fancies. If Mars, his violent nature. If
Mercury, his adaptability.
(b) From the 11th to the 20th, 8rd decanus of Taurus, Saturn.
Saturn means fatality, reverse and ruin.
W ith Jupiter Fate improves, also with Venus, the Sun and Mercury
if they are lords of the day. With the Moon and Mars, bad omens.
W ith Saturn, doubling of the evil prediction.
(c) From the 21st to the 80th, Gemini (1st decanus), Jupiter.
This decanus with Jupiter is favourable. And if in addition Jupiter
is lord of the day of nativity, the good omen is strengthened. Venus,
the Sun, Mercury, are good. Even the Moon is for once benign. Saturn
reminds of the difficulties of life, Mars brings his bravery and his quarrel
some tendencies.
A S T R O L O G Y
84
June.—(a) From 81st May to 9th June, Gemini (2nd decanus), Mars.
Sorrows, embroilments, annoyances, solitary old age.
Jupiter, Saturn and Mercury do not bring any change. Mars
redoubles his fury. Venus softens. The Moon’s influence as usual.
(b) From 10th to the 20th, Gemini (8rd decanus), Sun.
Good omen by reason of the Sun bringing his high protection,
especially if he is, in addition, master of the day. Jupiter, Venus
and Mars are favourable. The Moon considerably decreases the
splendour. Saturn also is full of treachery. Mercury is as always
the utilitarian planet which helps in commercial success.
(c) From 21st June to 1st July, first decanus of Cancer with Venus.
Cancer makes fantastic, effeminate, of delicate health. Jupiter
adds powers of attraction and softens the destiny, also the Sun and
Venus. Saturn is evil. The Moon threatens, also Mars and Mercury.
July.—(a) From the 2nd to the 11th, Cancer (2nd decanus), Mercury.
Mercury in and through Cancer loses his good influence and engenders
versatility.
B ut Jupiter can restore the love of work, Venus th at of devotion
and faithfulness, the Sun that of nobility of the soul. On the other
hand Saturn and Mars bring evil, the Moon make prodigal and inconstant,
Mercury mediocre and sedentary.
( b) From the 11th to the 22nd, Cancer (8rd decanus), Moon.
Usual influence of the Moon. Jupiter modifies it in the direction
of strength, the Sun in that of nobility and initiative. Venus, Mars,
and especially the Moon if mistress of the day, strengthen it. Saturn
adds his perverse instincts.
(c) From the 23rd July to the 1st August, Leo (1st decanus), Saturn
as Lord.
Courage and bravery. Judgment and firmness. Jupiter, Venus
and the Sun very favourable. Saturn here gives mistrust and diffidence,
the Moon ostentation and lack of restraint, Mars jealousy and lust,
Mercury infidelity but activity.
August.—(a) From the 2nd to the 11th, Leo (2nd decanus), Jupiter.
All omens are good, both of the decanus and its Lords of the Day.
Venus, howevfer, brings her excesses, the Moon her indolence, and Mars
his lack of discipline.
(b) From the 11th to the 22nd, last decanus of Leo, with Mars.
Mars always foretells annoyances arising from rivalries. Jupiter,
Venus, the Sun and Mercury are favourable. Saturn and the Moon
disturb life. Mars redoubles his fury.
(c) From 23rd August to 1st September, Virgo (first decanus), the
Sun.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
85
A fortunate destiny is promised under this double sign, which is
strengthened if the Sun is Lord of the day, and also by Jupiter, by
Venus in spite of her taste for luxury, by Saturn in spite of his
melancholy, the Moon despite her laziness, Mars despite some troubles,
Mercury in spite of his scepticism.
September.—(a) From the 2nd to the 11th September, Virgo (2nd
decanus) and Venus.
Also fortunate lot, but latish in life. All the planets are beneficent,
in spite of the fact th at the influences of Venus are excessive, and that
Mars foretells many lacks of self-restraint.
(b) From the 12th to the 21st, Virgo (8rd decanus) with Mercury.
Good destiny with all the lords of the day, except Saturn the severe,
the venturesome Moon, Mars and his sensuality.
(c) From 22nd September to 1st October, 1st decanus of Libra, with
the Moon.
Prosperous destiny, although possibly Saturn will bring sorrow in
love, Mars his everlasting quarrels, and Mercury his versatility.
October.—(a) From 2nd to 11th, 2nd decanils of Libra, and Saturn.
Bad streak, the evil of which is increased by Saturn, but which
Jupiter softens by his intelligence and his goodness, the Sun by his
wisdom, but Venus is perverse, Saturn greedy and depraved, the
Moon eccentric, Mars altogether in discord, Mercury morose, and they
do not improve this decanus.
(b) From the 12th to the 22nd, 8rd decanus of Libra, and Jupiter.
The good omen can be guessed. B ut we must fear Venus and her
disappointments, the savage Saturn, the diffident and undecided Moon,
Mars the over-impetuous.
(c) From 22nd to 81st, 1st decanus of Scorpio, Mars its Lord.
A fatal and maleficent decanus. Violence, hatred, jealousy, treason.
Even Jupiter foretells mourning and lawsuits, Venus feminine revenges
and reverses of fortune, Mercury severe enmities, Saturn doubles the
ill-luck foretold; the Moon, however, promises enduring love, and the
Sun dries all tears.
November.—(a) From the 1st to the 10th, Scorpio (2nd decanus),
the Sun.
The Sun docs not succeed in dispersing the clouds, even when
Lord of the day. Jupiter is better, and helps to surmount obstacles.
B ut Venus, Saturn drive towards evil; the Moon brings discord and
revenge, Mars revolt and indiscretion, Mercury distrust and enmity.
(5) From the 11th to the 20th, Scorpio (8rd decanus), Venus.
Similar dangers, which are accentuated by Venus on her day, by
Saturn, Mars, Mercury the indelicate. The Sun, Jupiter and the
Moon intervene favourably.
A S T R O L O G Y
(c) From the 21st to the 80th, 1st decanus of Sagittarius under the
royalty of Mercury.
On the whole a good omen. Only M an is aggressive and obstinate,
the Moon extravagant.
December.—(a) From the 1st to the 10th, 2nd decanus of Sagittarius,
under the lunar empire.
Also a good sign-manual, supported by the Lords of the day. But
Saturn gives excessive ambition, the Moon excessive pusillanimity,
Mars excessive daring.
(b) From the 11th to the 20th, 8rd decanus of the same, w ith Saturn.
Less pleasing, on account of Saturn, who, however, is attacked by
Jupiter and Mercury. But Venus drives to debauch, the Moon to
fancies, Mars to violence. Saturn, when Lord of the day, causes the
worst trouble.
(c) From the 21st to the 80th, 1st decanus of Capricorn, Jupiter.
W holly excellent, if the Moon and Mars do not intervene.
86 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
V III
The Lords o f the Hour
Just as Astrologygives a Lordto the Cycle, to the Year, to the Sign
of the Zodiac, to the Month, to the Decanus and to the Dayitgives
one to the Hour. And thus we find again the law of analogy, and in
addition, with its seven influences, the law of the septenary. See
the Table, below, of the Lords of the Hour.
THE LORDS OF THE HOUR
Ho b bs Mo n d a y Tit bspa y We d n e sd a y
1 a Moon Mara Meroury
2 Saturn Sun Moon
3 Jupiter Venus Saturn
4 Mara Mercury Jupiter
6 9 Sun Moon Mars
6 w Venus 8aturn Sun
7 a Mercury Jupiter Venus
8 3
O
Moon Mara Mercury
0 S&tum Sun Moon
10 Jupiter Venus Saturn
11 Mara Mercury Jupiter
12 Sun Moon Klara
Th u r sd a y Fb id a y Sa t o b d a y Su n d a y
Jupiter
Mara
Sun
Venus
Venus
Mercury
Moon
Saturn
Saturn
Jupiter
Mars
Sun
Sun
Venus
Mercury
Moon
Mercury
Moon
Saturn
Jupiter
Jupiter
Mors
Sun
Venus
Venus
Mercury
Moon
Saturn
Saturn
Jupiter
Mats
Sun
Mars
Sun
Venus
Meroury
Mercury
Moon
Saturn
Jupiter
Jupiter
Mars
Sun
Venus
Venus
Mercury
Moon
Saturn
A S T R O L O G Y 87
Ho u r s Mo n d a y Tu e s d a y We d n e s d a y Th u r sd a y Fb id a y Sa t u r d a y Su n d a y
13 Venus Saturn Sun Moon Mara Mercury Jupiter
14 Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun Moon Man
IS Moon Mars Morcuty Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun
16 Saturn Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus
17 o Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun Moon Mars Mercury
18 § Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun Moon
19 t-t Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn
20 52
O Venus Saturn Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter
21 Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun Moon Man
22 Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun
23 8aturn Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus
24 Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun Moon Mars Mercury
IX
General Remarks as to the Horoscope
We have now learnt to what astral influences a human being may
be subject. Let us now see how they may be found in some individual
by means of the casting of his horoscope, an operation which enables
us to discover the magnetic condition of the sky at the moment of a
birth, and which is also called Astrological Scheme.
First of all, let us, however, make a few more remarks.
To begin w ith it must be remembered that the horoscope is of two
kinds, according to whether we deal with a scheme of nativity or with
a scheme of actuality. It is possible, as a matter of fact, it is thought,
to foretell not only a destiny in general, but also such part of the destiny
as we wish to examine. We shall say a word later on as to this particular
forecast which is difficult to obtain, subject to errors, and consequently
less often asked for by the public and less liked by astromancers on
whom it throws too heavy a responsibility. It is their very integrity
which induces them to confine themselves to general data as regards
the general position and the main events of a fife.
Secondly, let us remember that there are several ways of casting
a horoscope. We will go through them rapidly.
Some astrologers as a matter of fact combine the rules of the Kabbala
or the data obtained from onomancy with the drawing up of their
schemes, that is to say they add the “ fatidic circles,” the numerical
combinations arising from the name and Christian names of the client
(onomancy) and the hermetic taroc. Others combine the result of the
cards and the result of the stars into a kind of astro-cartomancy which
is no doubt ingenious, but seems to us somewhat fantastic.
Far be it from us to wish to criticise onomantic astrology. It can
be carried out and is interesting. Professor Theano, who uses it,
states that it is bound to arrive at the same results as the one of which
we are about to speak. But it seems to us a useless complication of
Astrology1; it is liable to error if it is not applied strictly in accordance
with the subtle rules of Herm etism ; it runs the risk of proving nothing
because it tries to prove too much.
And further, if tne influence of the stars, experienced for thousands
of years, is real, to some extent physical, its study ought by itself to
be sufficient, and it seems to us dangerous to mix it up with kabbalism,
although we do not mean to say that outside it and in order to complete,
corroborate, define the horoscope it should not be permissible to add
onomantic or other interpretations. And we ourselves arc so strongly
in favour of these additions that we propose, as will be seen, to complete
what we call the psycho-prophetic portrait of a person by chiromantic,
graphological, onomantic, kabbalistic and other data. But we repeat
that with Luc Orion and other authors, we are of opinion that Astrology,
with its physical, chemical and mechanical tests, which show us the
action of the stars by reason of their size and their magnetism, has
its own methods, its own bases of proof, its own processes of investiga
tion and its own very definite realm.
Before proceeding to the casting of horoscope we must say a word
about relative positions and dignities.
The rays or a star in coming to us collide with other dynamic rays
which modify their intensity and their properties. The respective
positions of the stars amongst themselves are called their relative
positions (hereinafter called aspects”). In principle their number
would be indefinite. It has been restricted to those which form the
sides of regular diagrams. We have already named them. Let us
return to them to explain more fully.
The conjunction is a powerful aspect, cancelling the two influences
of the adjoining stars, therefore excellent between tw o good stars,
but to be dreaded between two bad ones. Thus the Sun + Jupiter
is very favourable. Jupiter + Moon is beneficent, but to a less degree,
the action of Jupiter inclining the selenic in a good direction. M ars +
Saturn is exceedingly bad. The Sun + Mars indicate courage leading
to victory. Jupiter + Mars will be the energy exercised in the perfor
mance of duty. Mercury -f Venus shows a vacillating destiny, an
excessive desire to please, etc.
■Various astrologers reject it entirely, in particular the mathematicians such os Ur.
Ghouasnard and the whole of the scientific school.
88 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
89
A S T R O L O G Y
Opposition and the sauare are bad, but less between beneficent
planets than between maleficent planets. Between beneficent planets
they counteract each other (reducing them, according to the Egyptians,
to a seventh of their power).
The following table shows the oppositions of the Z odiac:—
The third and sixth positions have the same effect as the conjunction
but in a less degree.
A further rem ark:—It has been noticed that certain planets made
their influence felt in constellations in which they did not stand, and
that in those in which they stood their influence varied, being now
increased, now diminished, now impeded. To these various states
the name of dignities has been given, and the following table shows their
positions (according to T oth ):—
Pl a n e t s Tr b o n b Ris e Fa l l Ex il e
Saturn
Jupiter
Mara
Venus
Mercury
Sun
Moon
Capricorn and Pisces
Sagittarius and Aquarius
Ram and Scorpio
Taurus and Libra
Gemini and Virgo
Leo
Cancer
Libra
Cancer
Capricorn
Pisces
Virgo
Ram
Taurus
Ram
Capricorn
Cancer
Virgo
Pisces
Pisces
Soorpio
Cancer and Virgo
Gemini and Leo
Taurus and Libra
Ram and Scorpio
Sagittarius and Pisces
Aquarius
Capricorn
A planet is in rise when its power is over-excited (for good or for
evil).
A planet is in fall when its power is diminished for good, increased
for evil.
A planet is in exile when, being in a position opposite to its throne,
it is weakened.
A planet in its throne, that is to say in its normal position, has its
normal influence.
Finally, before starting on our practical work of horoscopy, let us
give an easy method of finding the day of a nativity where it is not
known.
B y referring to the table given here, which is a perpetual calendar,
it will be sufficient to add the figure of the day of the month, the figure
of the month, the figure of the year and the figure of the century. The
total of these is the figure of the day required.
Ram—Libra.
Taurus—Scorpio.
Gemini—Sagittarius.
Cancer—Capricorn.
’’ * larius.
sees.
Ce n t u r ie s
PERPETUAL CALENDAR.
Da y s o p t h e
Mo n t h
Yea r s Mo n t h s
1 — 6
2 — 6
3 — 0
4 — 1
ff — 2
e — 3
7 — 4
8 — 6
e — 6
10 — 0
u — 1
12 — 2
13 — 3
14 — 4
16 — 6
till
14tb Oct.
1682
and since
16th Oct. 2
17 — 3
18 — 6
10 — 0
20 — 2
01 20 67 86 3
02 30 68 86 2
03 31 60 87 1
04 32 60 88 6
05 33 ei 80 6
06 34 62 00 4
07 36 63 01 3
08 36 64 02 1
00 37 65 03 0
10 38 66 04 6
11 30 67 06 6
12 40 68 06 3
13 41 60 07 2
14 42 70 08 1
16 43 71 00 0
16 44 72 100 6
17 46 73 101 4
18 46 74 102 3
10 47 76 103 2
20 48 76 104 0
21 40 77 106 6
22 60 78 106 6
23 61 70 107 4
24 62 80 108 2
26 63 81 100 1
26 64 82 110 0
27 66 83 111 6
28 66 84 112 4
except for 1700, 1800,
1900, instead of 5 ... 6
January .. .. 6
Years underlined 6
February .. .. 2
Years underlined 3
March . 2
April.. .. . 6
May .. ..
June .. ..
July .. ..
August . 1
September . 0
October .. . 6
November . 2
December . 0
1 2 17 0
2 1 18 6
3 0 10 6
4 6 20 4
6 6 21 3
6 4 22 2
7 3 23 1
8 2 24 0
0 l 26 6
10 0 26 6
11 6 27 4
12 6 28 3
13 4 20 2
14 3 30 1
16 2 31 0
16 1
Da y s
0 7 14 21
1 8 16 22
2 0 16 23
3 10 17 24
4 11 18
6 12 10
6 13 20
8unday.
Monday.
. Tuesday.
. Wednesday.
. Thursday.
Friday.
Saturday.
For instance, what is the day of a nativity which took place on the
14th July, 1889 ? Here is the table:—
Figure of the day of the month .. .. 3
Figure of the month ....................... 6
Figure of the y e a r ................................. 5
Figure of the century ....................... 0
14, figure of Sunday.
Sunday is the day looked for.
X
Casting o f the Horoscope o f Nativity
W ith the information given above it will at last be possible for us
to cast a horoscope. I t will, in principle, be the one to which the
91
name of Toth is given, because it was found engraved in the burial
chamber of this Egyptian priest who lived under the fourth dynasty.
But we have amenacd it (for it only included the Lords of the Day,
of the Hour and of the Decanus) by adding the Lords of the Cycle,
of the Year, of conception and of pregnancy (here they will be the
Lords of the decanus of the month of conception and of the decanus
of the 7th month of pregnancy).
A S T R O L O G Y
SOyTH
N&RTH
Th e Zo d u o w Re po s e
These Lords are given in the preceding tables. B ut it is not enough
to know them, we must place them in a Zodiac properly drawn up.
The drawing up of the Zodiac consists of putting it into the position
relative to the E arth in which it was, first, a t conception, secondly
a t pregnancy, and finally a t the birth.
Let us say a t once th at generally one single drawing up of the
Zodiac is considered sufficient, th at of nativity. The planets of con
ception and of pregnancy are placed inside this.
Let us start with the horoscope in repose, th at is to say let us take
92
it on the first day of spring. In this case the circle of the Houses is
situated in such a manner that House I coincides with the first con*
stellation of spring which is the Ram, this latter itself coinciding with
the point East of our diagram which gives the order, which must
always be observed, of the Houses and of the signs of the Zodiac.
Let us now draw up the horoscope.
To do this we must, with the help of the information given by the
movement of the sun through the Zodiac and the tables of the straight
ascents, find the sign of the Zodiac which occupies the Zenith, that
is to say House X, which is at the top of the circle. (We m ust not
forget th at the Houses themselves do not m ove; House X , therefore
will always be a t the Zenith; we shall only have to find which is the
sign which corresponds to it).
It is well known that the circle of the Zodiac is divided into 860
degrees, which gives or 80 degrees for each sign (or 10 for each
decanus and 1 for each day, the astrological year being reckoned as
860 days instead of 865, a discrepancy without importance).
Therefore, knowing that the sun gives one degree a day, it is easy
to find which degree of the sign the sun occupies on a given day. If
for instance the date of nativity is the 26th August, the sun, which
enters the sign of Virgo on the 22nd, will, on the 26th, be a t the fifth
degree of the sign.
B ut to which solar cycle does this figure correspond? In order
to find this, we must consult a special table, called the table of the
Straight Ascents. First we look for the degree of the sign; we follow
the horizontal line till we reach the column of the sign, and there we
find the point of the annual solar cycle.
Then, knowing the hour of the nativity, we turn it into minutes,
remembering that a minute represents 40 degrees. Thus, for instance,
8 hours make 8 X 60 = 480 minutes or ^ = 120 degrees. Thus
also 7 | hours make 7 X 60 -f 80 =
• 450 minutes or 112£ degrees.
Adding then the degrees of the hour to the degrees of the day,
and taking the total into consideration, we look at the table of straight
ascents for the figure nearest thereto; then we look in this column for
its sign. This is the sign we want. As to the degree, we find it by
following horizontally the line in which was the number of which we
have just spoken.
For instance, a birth took place on 17th August, 1872, at three
o’clock in the evening:— .
On this day, the Sun, which entered Leo on the 28rd July, is at
the 26th degree thereof.
Point of the annual cycle:—147.18.
Number of degrees of the hour:—5 hours = 800 minutes - ^
- 75 degrees.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Total of the degrees :—147.18 + 75 = 222.10 (corresponding column
Scorpio 16th).
Therefore House X begins at the 16th degree of Scorpio. The
remaining places follow.
T a b l e o f St r a ig h t As c e n t s
A strictly exact table gives a figure in degrees and minutes for
each degree and for each sign. But for general use an approximation
as regards degrees is enough, as it is very rare that the discrepancy
exceeds one degree. I t is enough to remember that the Sun successively
enters each sign 30 degrees later, that is to say it passed from Ram (0)
to Taurus on the 80th degree, to Gemini on the 60th degree, to Cancer
exactly on the 90th degree, to Leo on the 120th, etc. From which
we obtain the following approximate table:—
A S T R O L O G Y 93
g l
m ta
3
«
i
3
s
§
o
i
K
6
o
0
1 3
S
c
o
r
p
i
o
SA
O
IT
T
A
B
IU
8
1
<5
y
2
<
a
<
a
1
i 0 30 60 90 120 160 180 210 240 270 300 330
2 i 31 61 91 121 161 181 211 241 271 301 331
3 2 32 62 92 122 162 182 212 242 272 302 332
4 3 33 63 93 123 163 183 213 243 273 303 333
6 4 34 64 94 124 154 184 214 244 274 304 334
6 0 35 65 95 125 155 185 216 245 276 305 336
7 6 36 66 96 126 156 186 216 246 276 306 336
8 7 37 67 97 127 157 187 217 247 277 307 337
9 8 38 68 98 128 158 188 218 248 278 308 338
10 9 39 69 99 129 169 189 219 249 279 309 330
11 10 40 70 100 130 160 190 220 250 280 310 340
12 11 41 71 101 131 161 191 221 251 281 311 341
13 12 42 72 102 132 162 192 222 252 282 312 342
14 13 43 73 103 133 163 193 223 253 283 313 343
15 14 44 74 104 134 164 194 224 254 284 314 344
16 16 46 75 105 135 165 195 225 255 265 315 346
17 16 46 70 106 13A 166 196 226 256 266 316 346
18 17 47 77 107 137 167 197 227 257 287 317 347
19 18 48 78 108 138 168 198 228 258 288 318 348
20 19 49 79 109 139 169 199 229 250 289 319 349
21 20 60 80 110 140 170 200 230 260 290 320 350
22 21 61 81 111 141 171 201 231 261 291 321 361
23 22 52 82 112 142 172 202 232 262 292 322 352
24 23 63 83 113 143 173 203 233 263 293 323 353
25 24 54 84 114 144 174 204 234 264 294 324 354
26 25 56 85 115 145 175 205 235 265 295 326 356
27 26 66 86 116 146 176 206 236 266 296 326 356
28 27 67 87 117 147 177 207 237 267 297 327 357
29 28 68 88 118 148 178 208 238 268 298 328 358
30 29 59 89 119 149 179 209 239 269 299 329 369
94
As to the placing of the planets into our drawn-up Zodiac, this
was formerly done (we mean to say a few years ago) by the help of
annual astrological almanacs published in England, which gave this
with date, hour, minute, second. This was exact, but somewhat
difficult to consult, and our table of straight ascents became insufficient
for births outside Paris, as it required corrections as to latitude by means
of another table called Table of Oblique Ascents.
Astrologers who relied chiefly on the inscription of Toth and the
work of Johan Glaser, have found an easier method which is as follow s:
We place in the sign where it has its throne (in the case of a birth
by day) or its domicile (in the case of a birth by night) the planet which
appears more than once in the list which we have learnt to draw up,
of the Lords of the Cycle, of the Year, of the Sign, of the Decanus,
of the Day, of the Hour, of the Pregnancy, and of the Conception.
It is obvious that one of the seven must be repeated at least twice,
since there are eight Lords in play.
We place the Master of the Day in House X , and the Lord of the
H our1 into his constellation according to the following table (each of
the 12 constellations corresponding to two hours):—
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Ram ............................... from 6 to 8 a.m.
T au ru s............................... from 8to 10 a.m.
G em ini................................ from 10 to 12 a.m.
C an cer............................... from 12 to 14 p.m.
Leo ............................... from 14 to 16 p.m.
Virgo ................................ from 16 to 18 p.m.
Libra ............................... from 18 to 20 p.m.
Scorpio............................... from20 to 22 p.m.
Sagittarius ...................... from22 to 24 p.m.
Capricorn ...................... from 0 to 2 a.m.
Aquarius ...................... from 2 to 4 a.m.
Pisces ................................ from 4 to 6 a.m.
The Lord of the Decanus of course goes into the Decanus ruled by
him, just as the Lord of the Sign goes into his constellation. The Lords
of the Cycle and of the Year remain outside. Their individual influence
is taken into account, but to a lesser extent than that of the other Lords.
Once the planets are placed, we observe carefully and note their
aspects and dignities in a little table which will be useful to chedc
the interpretation which now alone remains to be made by referring
to the meanings of the fixed and moving stars above set out.1
1 When the hour is unknown, the middle hour is taken (that of noon). Also remember
that the astrological day counts from noon to noon. The first i2 hours a n therefore from noon
to midnight, they are the evening hours; the morning hours count from midnight to noon.
In the case of these the date must therefore be put one day forward.
* We admit that the method here set out is attacked by some astrologers. But we thought
it better to simplify as much as possible, and to give mainly a general idea of Astrology. If
an exact horoscope is required, it will therefore always be best to nave it cast by a professional,
as we advise later on.
A S T R O L O G Y 95
X I
The Horoscope of the Present
In addition to the horoscope of nativity, it is possible to cast a
horoscope of the present, that is to say, show to a person of whatever
age the possibilities of his destiny for the current year or the following
years.
For this purpose it must be remembered that the Zodiac moves
to the extent of one solar house each year. Therefore, in order to know
which sign of the Zodiac will be in House I during the year in question,
it is necessary, knowing the age of the client, in such year, to add 2
on to House A l l , 8 on to House X I, 4 on to House X, etc., till the actual
age. The sign at which we stop will be placed in House I for the
intended consultation. Then the Zodiac will be properly drawn up
(according to the method of Ely Star).
The following method can also be adopted:—If the age does not
exceed 12, count as above. I t it does exceed 12, deduct this number
as many times as possible, or (which comes to the same thing) divide
the age by 12, and add to the remainder the order number of the sign
under which the client was bom (1 in the case of the Ram, 2 in the case
of Taurus, 8 in the case of Gemini, etc.). The total will show which
sign m ust be placed in House I.
For instance, a man is bom under Scorpio, which sign will be in
House I on the 45th year ? We divide 45 by 12 = Quotient 8, re
mainder 9 (45 — 86 9). The Order number of Scorpio being 8,
we add this to 9 and get 17. B ut there are only 12 signs, we deduct
12 from 17. Remains 5. Now 5 is the order number of Leo. There
fore, in his 45th year, the client will have Leo in his first house.
The following table enables us to replace this calculation by a
glance. At the following ages the sign of nativity passes:—
In House
*
*
M
If
ft
ft
*
»
ft
ft
tt
I at 1 13 25 37 49 01 73 85 yean.
XU at 2 14 20 38 50 02 74 80 year*.
XI at 3 15 27 30 61 03 75 87 years.
X at 4 10 28 40 52 04 70 88 years.
IX at 5 17 29 41 63 05 77 89 years.
v m at 6 18 30 42 54 00 78 90 years.
VII at 7 10 31 43 55 07 79 91 years.
VI at 8 20 32 44 50 08 80 92 yean.
V at 0 21 33 45 57 09 81 93 yean.
IV at 10 22 34 40 58 70 82 94 yean.
III at 11 23 30 47 69 71 83 95 yean.
II at 12 24 30 48 00 72 84 90 yean.
It therefore but remains to interpret the omens for the passing
of the sign of nativity and the sign of the Zodiac through each house.
These omens are too subtle for us to give them here, especially as, in
of several maleficent directions of the luminaries which converged
about this time.
The transits are the passing of the planets over the important
points of the sky of nativity. “ They provide the most manifest proof,
statistically, of the influence of the planets on destiny," says Mr.
Chouasnard.
The solar revolution is the representation of the sky at the place
of nativity at the exact moment when the sun returns to the same
point of Zodiac at which it was at birth. A comparison with the
sky of nativity gives the good or bad periods of the ensuing year.
98 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
X III
Note on Onomantic Astrology
During the progress of the present book some people have asked
us, although they do not recommend it, to state at least the broad
principles of the Astro-onomancy of Ely Star. We are too loyal not
to comply with these wishes, but in case it is desired to apply the
method of the celebrated astrologer, it will be absolutely necessary
to have a copy of his Mysteries o fthe Horoscope1for it is not possible
for us to condense 800 pages into 20 sufficiently explicit pages.
The following gives in a few words the “ Starian ” system :—
Necessary for the casting of the horoscope by its means are the family
name and the usual personal name of the client, and the exact date of
his birth. Its main principle is that the horoscope is the synthesis
of the arcana of nativity2.
We begin then by reducing kabbalistically into numbers the name
and chief personal name of the client (by means of the rosicrucian
alphabet). Then we convert the date of birth into degrees by means
of the thebaic calendar. The planet of the year (see special table)
gives the fatidic circle which must be taken, always placing House I
on the Zodiacal sign of nativity. We then draw up the genethliac
scale (as to how this is done, see the said book) which gives 6 figures,
one of which, the topmost, with its adjoining planets, m il form House
X. The name, personal name, etc., constitute the remaining houses.
Haying drawn up the scale, and the circle of the year in question,
we begin our researches on the particular circle, starting from a point
specified by the decanus of nativity (see special table). Having properly
placed the Zodiac (the sign of nativity in House I), the scale before
1 Published by H. Durville, 23 rue Saint-Meroi, Paris.
* In allgood faith we mustadd that the book in question enables to begin with the casting
of a simple horoscope without onomancy, which may be added to it afterwards.
our eyes, as well as the fatidic circle, we put in the planets kabbalistically
(see the method in the book) with their degree of dignity, and we begin
to find the meaning of the omens by grouping them in the 12 Houses.
As will be seen, the pages at our disposal for the sketch of the
science of Astrology are not sufficient to enable us to go a t length into
this method by describing the hermetic Taroc. But it would seem
that marvellous results have been obtained from its use.
A S T R O L O G Y 99
XIV
Simplified Astrology
Some readers, discouraged perhaps by the above lengthy explana
tions and the different methods in use, will think it impossible to have
even a rudimentary astrological forecast about themselves or those
in whom they are interested. We will now suggest to them a method
which, while not having the value as regards exactness of a properly
cast horoscope, will yet give them some data sufficient to obtain a
little light.
But above all let them not purchase those popular handbooks
which give the destiny of people “ bom in this or the other month.”
They will realize how dangerously false these forecasts are when
they remember that the astronomic month does not correspond to a
sign of the Zodiac.
They should be content with observing, but they should a t the very
least observe, the following:—
1. The sign of the Zodiac presiding a t the nativity and the Lord
of th at sign.
2. The decanus of the sign of the Zodiac and the Lord of th at
decanus.
8. The planet ruling on the day of nativity.
The present book will give them without any calculation the ex
planations corresponding with these influences. I t will be enough
to read them carefully and then to bring them into accord.
For instance, what tendencies and what chances has a child called
Germain, bom on a Wednesday at the beginning of February ?
We are in the 2nd decanus of Aquarius. We thus have the following
influences:—
1. That of the sign of the Zodiac, Aquarius, and its Lord, Saturn.
2. That of the Lord of the 2nd decanus of Aquarius, which is
Mercury.
8. That of the Lord of the day, Wednesday, which is Mercury.
100
Aquarius generally gives a sound constitution, firm will, love of
work and enduring passions, but alternating falls and rises, and danger
when travelling. Our Germain will therefore have to be careful when
travelling about, and not be afraid of the ups and downs of life. A
man warned is worth two. And a man who nas Mercury twice in his
horoscope has made a good start in the steering of his boat. He will
very probably have an honest life, without excesses of joy, of sorrows,
of honours. His personal name (as will be seen later on) is generally
borne by persons of solid qualities. Saturn is here only the dominant
of the sign and not the dominant of the subject; therefore there is no
reason to fear him overmuch. Germain will probably be intelligent,
live a regular life, have common sense, marry well some day. B ut
these are only vague predictions, although pleasant. I t would be
necessary to look a t his hand and to read it; this it will be possible to
do thanks to our third chapter; and his astral sign-manual would have
to be corroborated by physiognomony of which we are going to speak
immediately.
Before going further we want to apologise for having been compelled
to open with pages which are somewhat arduous. The reader should
not be discouraged on this account: all that comes later will be much
more easily understood, without being any less interesting: and the
more he advances in his studies the more fascinated he will become,
for they trend ever upwards towards astonishment and intellectual
pleasure.
One final rem ark: We have given a means of obtaining for oneself
a summary statement of one’s own personal astral influences, but we
would strongly advise anyone who wants a serious horoscope to apply
to the specialists in this exceedingly difficult science—the most difficult
of all those aiming at the discovery of information regarding the future.
I t is moreover the science which has been most conscientiously
modernised. I t follows therefore that its full application to-day entails
most complicated calculations. In the circumstances we have kept
to broad principles, attempting rather to explain than to teach.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
CHAPTER n
PHY8IOGNOMONY
I
Divisions and Short History
An y o n e who has cared to read the introduction to our book will have
guessed for himself the division which is obvious in this chapter:—
1* Physiognomony purely morphological.
2. Phrenology (Physiognomony applied to the skull).
8. Chirology (Physiognomony applied to the hand).
4. Typology (Planetary Physiognomony).
'On account of itS' importance, however, we shall study separately
Chirology, which again is divided into two sections, one morphological,
the ocher astrological.
I t has also been seen th at Physiognomony is the study of the whole
of the outer being, and not only of hisphysiognomy, although the latter
is after all the most im portant section of this art, which has been
invented for the purpose of codifying the undoubted relations between
the physical and the ethic.
Long before the time of Lavater these relations were observed and
practiced or divinatory deductions were made from them. The Greeks
nad already so fully sensed them that in their language they combined
into a single word—kalosagathos—(which means honest man, good
man) the two words halos (beautiful) and agathos (good). W ith them
beauty and goodness had to be combined in one single being before he
was worthy to be called a human being. Amongst the Latins the
word persona (from which comes the English word personality) meant
a t first the mask with which the actor played his part. Personality,
therefore, is actually and figuratively the mask from which it is possible
to diagnose both your tendencies and your future.
And this mask of the ancient actor was rigid; it represented his
soul, his whole psychology.1 Long before Lavater, therefore, before
1 This rigid mask was given up precisely because neither the soulnor the face is thus made
of one piece and unalterable. Both become flexible at the dictates of the will. The rigidity
of the ancient mask was the symbol of fait, the tbeoretio inflexibility of whiob we have also
softened by the belief in a determinism mitigated by free will.
101
102
Lombroso, Penschel, Pcrnetti, Harder, Kubisse or Delestre, the ancients
claimed that a given face reflected a given character, corresponded
with given faculties.
And among the ancients, it is Aristotle, we think, who was the
first to point out the connections (so clearly defined in the works of
Lavater) which exist between some human faces and some animal
heads,1 it is the philosopher Zophirus, the physician Hippocrates.
In the Middle Ages, and nearer our own times, it is Cureau de Lachambre,
physician of Louis XTV, Porta and Adamantius, Pierre d’Albans and
Cardon, Michael Scott and Claramontius, Montaigne, Bacon, etc.
Montaigne wrote: “ I t seems that some faces are lucky, and others
unlucky, and I think there is some way of distinguishing kindly faces
from idiotic ones, stem ones from harsh, those malicious from the
sorrowful, those disdainful from the melancholy, and other neighbouring
qualities.”
And long before him Marcus Aurelius wrote:—“ A man full of
frankness and integrity spreads around him an aroma which character
ises him ; he is sensed, he is guessed; his whole soul, his whole character
show themselves in his face and in his eyes.”
And before Marcus Aurelius, Solomon:—“ As the water reflects
the face of those who see themselves in it, so the heart of man is open
to the eye of the wise man.”
Delestre in his excellent Physiognomony (1866) gives the well known
list of works written before Lavater on this subject and on the adjoining
one of chiromancy:—The Art ofChyromancy of Master Andrien Corum,
small incunabulum without mite, printed by Jehan de Verdellay;
the little treatise of Michael Scott, an occultist of the X IH th century,
the first edition of which, however, does not date farther back than
1608, the Latin essay on chiromancy of Andrea Corvo, the Enchiridion
physiognomonice, dated Cracow 1582, the Chyromancy of Tricassius,
entirely based on Astrology and translated into French, the Geomancy
of Pierre d’Albano and that of Code, the Physiognomony of Molinius,
the book of Thaddeus Hagece (1565) where physiology first appears,
the Treatise of the Examination of the Hand of Picciolus who himself
quotes more than fifty of his predecessors, the remarkable De Humana
Physiognomonia of J . B. Porta, the treatise of Metoseopy and Ophthal
moscopy of Fuchsius (1615), the works of Phinella, of May (medical
chiromancy, 1665), of Ronphile, of Siclcr, etc., etc.
If we nave ventured to give such an extensive list, it is in order
to show how much this science, like the others, fascinated the seekers,*
* As is well known, the painter Le Bnm executed a series of quite remarkable drawings
in which these relations are shewn in pairs—the head of an animal and side by side with it the
human head showing the same characteristic, the lion and the man with leonine face, the dog
and the man with canine face, etc.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
the pioneers who prepared the roads which were subsequently explored,
w ith their methodical and critical genius, by Lavater and Gall, later
by Desbarolles, later still by Gastin and Jagot.
Let us also remember Saint-Simon, the keen observer, who writes
in his Memoirs:—“ I t was only necessary to have eyes, without any
knowledge of the Court, so as to distinguish the interests delineated
in the faces.”
Camper and Gall brought exactitude to the science of physiognomony,
then still in its infancy and incongruous. But as we nave said, to
Lavater belongs the honour of having definitely established it.
Swiss and the son of the doctor, Jean Gaspard Lavater very early
showed himself to be thoughtful. Studying theology, he was appointed
pastor in 1775. His sermons were very well attended. He wrote no
less than 129 books, the most famous of which was and remains his
Essay on Physiognomony.
P H Y S I O G N O M O N Y 103
II
General
I t is common knowledge that, face to face with a fresh physiognomy,
one experiences a feeling of attraction, of indifference or of hostility,
actually based on the impression which it conveys of frankness,
goodness, intelligence, or commonplace, of flatness, even stupidity,
or of malignity, harshness, crookedness, brutality.
B ut it is not the face alone which mutely speaks to us. I t is also
the attitude, the movement, the bearing, the way of walking, of dressing,
of listening, or of speaking. This man is negligent, th at other takes
great care of his appearance; this one ambles along, bent, piteous,
and that other walks straight, proud, sure of himself. Here we have
a serious type, with restrained gesture and slow speech. And this
man is agitated, a “ rigolo,” a chatterer. No two are alike, and a t
once land sometimes even too quickly) we judge them. How many
have become friendly with a man solely because they liked his good
manners, his correctness or his good nature ? How many, on the other
hand, have wished never to see again a person who was introduced
to them, simply because “ his face did not appeal to them ” ?
On the basis of these data which, as will be seen, only consist of the
examination (quick or careful) of the face, Lavater divided his science
into four classes :—1
1. The temperamental physiognomony, which noticed the constitution
of the individual, the quality of ms blood and of his organs (delicate
or coarse), his adaptability, his irritability.
104
2. The intellectual physiognomony—exterior, qualities of the mind
showing themselves by the formation, the face, the complexion,
the gestures.
3. The moral physiognomony—inclinations towards good or evil.
4. The medical physiognomony—visible signs of disease or health.
On the other hand he divided his observations into six categories
according to whether they related to the face, the attitude, the voice,
the texture of the tissues, the complexion, the hair.
Since then all this has been simplified, and F. Clerget (who wisely
asks us not to judge anindividual froma few marks, but to studythem
all and to draw an average conclusion from them) only divides
Physiognomony into three parts:—
1. Relating to the intellectual life (examination of the frontal region).
2. Relating to the moral life (imparting mobility to the features of the
face).
3. Relating to the material and organio life (attitude and gestures).
We shall presently combine the two methods.
ButfirstafewmoreremarksdrawnfromthebookofGastonRobert1
on ugliness and beauty, the appearances of strength and weakness,
the pnysiognomonic differencesbetweenthe sexes, the familylikenesses,
the national physiognomonies, the physiognomy of ages and tempera
ments, profiles and silhouettes.
As a m atter of principle, says G. Robert, virtue makes beautiful,
and vice makes ugly. But it is possible to find ugly people full of
good qualities, and beautiful women who are very eviL However
r‘ look at the physiognomy when face to face with an evil act, and
you will see to what extent it differs from the same types noticed
in those who have never failed.” In the same way we detect in ugly
people when lit by noble emotions, the kind of beauty which always
accompanies virtue.
According to Lavater, a very beautiful face—quasi-superhuman—
must have:—
(a) A striking equality between the three parts: forehead, nose, chin.
(b) The forehead ending straight, hence tne eyebrowB straight, close and
bold.
(c) The eyes blue or light brown, seeming from a distance black, and
the upper lids covering the eyeball about a fifth or a fourth.
(d) A nose with large bridge, almost straight, and slightly tilted.
(«) A straight mouth with well marked curve, and equal lips.
(/) A round and prominent chin.
(g) Short dark brown hair, ourled in big waves.
1 The Art o/ Knowing the Qualities and the Faults of People (published by Gamier, 1903).
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
PHYSIOGNOMONY 105
The last characteristic is doubtful. The union
of the others is rare. I t is found, for instance,
in Napoleon I and in Madame Recamier.
Human strength, according to Lavatcr, is in
its outward appearance alive and calm. Some
Herculeses, he says, are all bone and nerve,
compact, close knit, endowed with the strength
of a colossus. Other strong men seem elastic.
If a man “ built like a Hercules ” has slack
muscles, he is not really strong, and this is easily
seen.
The signs of a real calm and lasting strength
a re :—well made somewhat tall figure, thick neck,
broad shoulders, a face with the bony structure visible (a man with
a fat face is rarely strong), quiet bearing, firm step, medium voice.
An alert strength is manifested only by accident; it belongs to
individuals who are thin rather than stout, of somewhat tall figure,
short speech, piercing eyes, thin lips.
The physiognomonic signs of weakness are very tall figure, thin
build, a soft skin, the nose and forehead too rounded, chin and nostrils
somewhat small, uncertain gait and gestures.
Since the time of Lavater these matters of strength, and even
athleticism, have been studied with particular care, for the reason
th at physical training and sports have become the subject of very
deep research. I t is in special books that exact and practical informa
tion will be found on these matters which are outside our scope.
Differences appear between man and woman from the point of view
of physiognomy.
In the woman everything is rounded. The tissues are delicate
and extensile; they soften the angles, and unite the various parts
of the body by means of gentle transitions. The muscles are very
mobile, do not contract for long; consequently they do not modify
the face sufficiently to give it the habitual expression which in a man
allows the discovery of the ruling passions, the inclinations, the leanings
of the mind and the heart.
Hence also woman is not so good a subject for the science with
which we are dealing as man. None the less it will be easy to detect
a t a glance a proud woman (erect carriage, head raised, the mouth
slightly disdainful, looking down from on nigh), a hypocrite (she, the
same as the man, has a shifty eye, unless, being cynical, she is not
afraid to look you in the eyes), the worthy poor woman with the suffering
and resigned face, the professional beggar, with bent head, whining
106
mien and excessive sighs, to distinguish a young woman of good
behaviour from the gay woman with the instinctively provoking look,
the timid girl from the conceited, the ignoramus from the educated
woman, a common woman from a lady of good family, however simply
dressed.
One piece of advice:—Distrust the sharp nose, and especially the
thin lips. It is common knowledge that a woman with thin lips has
a bad disposition, is peevish, cruel, heartless.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
I d e a l T y p e s a c c o b d ix o t o G b z e k St a t d a b y .
Admire crimson and thick lips ; they usually belong to affectionate
persons, and also to passionate lovers.
As regards the fa m ily p h ysio g n o m y G. Robert makes the following
remarks:—1
1. From a stupid father and an intelligent mother very intelligent
children arc frequently born.
2. From a father by nature good, the children usually get a good
disposition.
107
8. If the father is good, the sons seem to get from him their moral
characteristics, from the mother those of the intellect. The daughters
more usually inherit the soul of the mother.
4. The newborn child must be studied, for it is during the first
few hours th at children most resemble their parents. This resemblance
does not return till several years later.
5. If the physical likeness of the children increases as they grow
older, the same will happen in the case of the intellectual likeness.
6. From the father come the strength or the weakness of the kind,
not the shape of the bones or the muscles. From the mother come
the quality of the nerves, the shape of the face if the maternity arises
from first love (the widows for instance are an exception). Naturalists
have noticed that a bitch in her various litters always gave to her pups
the characteristics of the race to which she owed her first gestation.
7. If the child resembles both parents, it leans in the end towards
the one who loves it more strongly and more intimately.
8. Where a passionate character is introduced into a family by the
father or the mother, it may take centuries before it is softened.
9. The phlegmatic temperament is the one which is least easily
passed on.
10. The active, hardworking, watchful temperament is almost
ineradicable.
The national physiognomy is a kind of extension of the family
physiognomy which covers a race.
The races of the world are distinguished by their features as much
as by their colour.
The Caucasian type is the only one which is essentially white and
in which individual features are most varied; Tartars resemble each
other much, also Mongols, Chinese, Malays. If they are of the same
age, it is difficult for a European to distinguish them. Variety is
found again in the American race, but between tribe and tribe. We
shall not go a t length into the details of human types; this would lead
us too far and be of not much use.
B ut we would like to say one word about the physiognomy of the
ages.
“ The child," says G. Robert, “ has the face short, wide, squat,
the forehead prominent, the cheeks fat and smooth, the lips fresh and
crimson, the skin soft, tender and pink, all the outlines rounded and
graceful.
“ In the adolescent, the bones of the face are developed, the nose
becomes sharper, the cheeks longer, down begins to show, the look
becomes more assured, the colours diminish, the physiognomy acquires
P H Y S I O G N O M O N Y
expression, the feelings sketch out their imprint on the face which later
they will wrinkle.
“ The adult has features, more pronounced but less mobile. The
physiognomy then gives hints as to nationality, family, character and
i
^ liognomy ofthe old man is dulled, his features are hardened,
the skin dries and wrinkles, the eyes lose their light, the shape becomes
angular, the face lacks mobility."
108 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
temperament
*Thenhv!
I ll
Physiognomonic Tables. Temperaments and Characteristics
The Choleric :—Eyebrows thick, tip of the nose angular, lips thin,
eye characteristic, but alert, assured. Complexion often swarthy
or yellowish (if the individual is bilious), the hair dark, harsh and well
placed, good teeth.
The Phlegmatic:—Outlines slack, dulled (those of the eyes arched),
lower lip prominent, glance without life, complexion dull; usually
fair hair (often thin and flat), teeth irregular and slightly bluish.
The Sanguine:—Face full, complexion florid, lips highly coloured,
good teeth, nair thick, eyes often blue, merry, indicating thoughtlessness
and love of pleasure.
The Melancholy:—Nose inclined towards a mouth often closed,
nostrils small, lips thin (the lower one prominent), chin small, forehead
wrinkled, glance sad, cheeks hollow and complexion pale.
The Choleric-Melancholy is inclined to friendship, the Sanguine-
Phlegmatic to marriage.
The man o f good disposition is generally good looking, with large
well proportioned nose, slightly inclined towards the mouth, the eyes
somewhat deep set, forehead stem, chest broad.
A man o fevil disposition has an irregular pale face, with narrow earn,
thin lips, slanting eyes, back somewhat arcned, fingers long, legs thin
and feet badly shaped.
The witty type has a wide forehead, good ears, well arched brows,
figure erect, fingers flexible, heels somewhat prominent, cheerful
expression.
The idiot has a neck too short, its back too rounded, jaws too large,
eyes dull, foolish expression and ungainly movements.
The brave man has keen eyes, well arched brows, pointed chin,
muscular neck, body broad and well filled out.
The coward has large eyes, small face, delicate limbs, weakly body,
rounded forehead, a quick step and the face drawn out with fear.
109
P H Y S I O G N O M O N Y
The pleasure lover has a smiling face, hair thin, chest and body
hairy, brilliant and lascivious eyes.
A few more rem arks:—
E nvy makes thin and languid.
In inflammations of the chest the face grows pale, the look seems
to stray. W hen gangrene sets in, the nose gets pinched, the lips turn
blue, the complexion leaden. It is a bad omen in a patient w henhis
eyes fix them selves on the light, get m oist, squint, redden on the inside,
when the arteries sw ell, blacken and draw back.
The profile m ust not be neglected; it is best studied by means of
silhouettes thrown on to a screen. Lavater had given attention to
them .
A profile showing the forehead curved slightly inward indicates
great capacity, but little creative power. The size of the upper lip
denotes the extent of thoughtlessness. A high forehead is a sign of
intellect. B ut a forehead rorming an acute angle w ith the nose is a
sign of the opposite.
B ut we snlul pass all these characters in review. Here we merely
wanted to point out that the silhouette confirms the physiognom ic
signs of the face.
A n i m a l Co m p a r i s o n s
This branch of Physiognom ony which is one of the m ost remarkable,
and perhaps one of the m ost true, is by no means new. As we said,
Aristotle already claim ed that animal physiognomies clearly defined
in men m ight supply a sure indication as regards character, and we
will now rapidly sketch out here, according to Decker, the correspond
ences which exist between the physiognomies of some men and the
animals whose likeness their features suggest.
The monkey—cautious, flatterer, tricky, tim id, tendency to petty
theft, to drunkenness and to lasciviousness.
The fo x—great cunning, considerable patience, marked circum
spection, tendency to flattery and to egotism .
The bear—misanthropy, rudeness, unsociability.
The panther—irritability, knavery, lack of sensitiveness.
The wolf—trickery without tenderness, dissim ulation, quarrelsome
and melancholy.
The lion—greatness, generosity, firmness, nobility of character,
calmness and prudence.
The parrot (hooked nose, receding chin)—superficial, unthinking,
talkative, irritable and greedy.
110 t h e o c c u l t s c i e n c e s
An im a l Co m pa r is o n s .
Th e Ox T y p e
The owl—not much imagination, not much courage, not very docile,
but orderliness and moderation.
The raven—cleverness, impudence, rapacity.
The eagle—high character, courage, resolution.
The dog—courageous, faithful and devoted.
The cat—egotistical, flatterer and insincere.
The ferret—inquisitive, mischievous, restless, very wily.
The sheep— simple disposition, good, gentle, but obstinate and
im itative.1
The pig—no tenderness or feeling, gluttonous and badly looked
after.
The horse—generous but proud nature.
The donkey—lazy, self-sufficient and given to m aterial pleasures.
The ox—careless and apathetic, conscientious, im itatively laborious
and useful.
The camel—laborious and sober, but sarcastic and cold.
P H Y S I O G N O M O N Y 111
T h e D i f f e r e n t P a r t s o f t h e B o d y
Let us now pass on to the synoptic tables of physiognomony which
will very clearly give us fairly exact information as to the tendencies
of individuals as shown by each part of the body.
1. F o r e h e a d
According to Penschel, its length from one tem ple to the other
should normally be nine inches.3 The following is a list of the varieties
of foreheads usually m et w ith :—
W ell proportioned as to length and
breadth—generalabilitiesandqualities.
Too large—laborious but solid memory.
Too sm all—predisposition to avarice.
Too wide—tendency to anger.
Too long, very even—cruel, suspicious
and vindictive character.
Narrow, low, prom inent—the forehead of
the energetic and enterprising type.
Round (convex)—gentleness.
Retreating inw ard—egoism and weak
ness.
Sm ooth and fla t—middling imagination
and intelligence.
Flattened, knotty, irregular—brutality,
criminality.
Dented—industry.
Arched—femininity.
Straight—great intellect.
U nwrinkled—cold, hypocrisy.
W rinkled horizontally—softness.
W rinkled vertically—energy.
Set w rinkles—weak intellect.
D eeply wrinkled above the eyes—slow
mind.
Crossed by a swollen vein — great
abilities.
1 The ovine profile is often found among prostitutes (see remarks of Messrs. Poinsot and
Normandy).
■A complete divinatory science has been founded on the lines of the forehead on account
of the impressionability of the akin of this part. This was Meioscopy.
112 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
2 . E y e b r o w s
A ngular and broken—activity.
W ell arched—good nature, kindness.
Slightly arched— simplicity, frankness.
T hick and well drawn—sure judgment.
T hin—moral weakness.
U ntidy—violence.
W ith tu ft between them—cunning.
Supple, scarce, drooping—weak .char*
acter.
M eeting (in men)—hard-heartedness,(in
women) jealousy.
JPeHdivided—rather cold heart.
H orizontal—manliness.
Close to the eyes—gravity.
R ising towards theforehead—cruelty.
R aised fro m the eyes—timid inquisitive
ness.
Short and tufted—memory
8.
Very light blue—weakness.
B lue—gentleness, kindness.
China-mue—passion, jealousy.
D ark blue—profound thoughts.
Brown—lively mind.
Yellow ish brown—talent, superiority.
Green—bravery, constancy.
Green-yellow—treachery.
B lack— cunning, tenacity.
Grey—gentle thoughtful mind.
Very light grey—quickness of mind and
gaiety.
Pale—enigmatic mind.
A lw ays straight glance—despotism.
Yellow—murderer's eyes.
Penetrating glance—consciousness of
one’s own value.
E y e s
Large, expressive—energy.
Large, weak—phlegm.
Sm all and alert—perseverance.
Deep set—envy, malice.
Very hollow—spying.
Set at very sharp angle towards the
nose—judicial wisdom.
U pper eyelid arched—cheerful char
acter.
H eavy drooping eyelid—genius.
M oist and veiled eyes—talent for art.
Sm iling eyes—amorous and kind.
D rooping eyes—lack ofintelligence.
Rounded eyes—unbalanced.
Open and prom inent—obstinacy.
A lw ays moving—inconstancy.
Projecting—laziness and wantonness.
4 . N o s e
A perfect nose—it must have the same length as the forehead and
show near the root a very slight dent—is always a sign of great moral
qualities.
W ell-shaped nose—lofty mind.
Large—goodness of heart.
Sm all—nne feeling.
Long and rounded—disloyalty.
T hick and sm all—bad character.
Sm all and thin—alert intellect.
T hick and rounded—good nature.
Square end {flattened)—original ideas.
Hooked—greed.
Pointed—mean character.
Arched at the top—overbearing.
Inclined towards the mouth—high senti
ments.
Perpendicular—not very strong char
acter.
IPitAnarrow base—trickeryanddistrust.
Broad—great ability.
Retrousse—mischievousness, thought
lessness.
Pinched—very great strictness.
Veryfleshy—greediness.
TPtaenostrils—expansiveneas.
P H Y S I O G N O M O N Y 113
5.
Fleshy—sensuality.
T h in and narrow—austere habits.
Too plum p—candour.
Hollow—sorrow, melancholy.
Very smooth—lack of brain.
Ch e e k s
Slightly wavy—experience.
Furrowed—simplicity.
R ising towards the eyes—generous heart.
Triangular dim ples—indicate envy and
jealousy.
6. Mo u t h . Li p s a n d T e e t h 1
U pper lip projecting over the lower—sign
of kindness, but of mediocre mind.
Both lip s projecting equally—uprightness
and sincerity.
Lower lip projecting over the upper—
disdainful and dissatisfied character.
Fleshy lip s—sensuality.
T hick—voluptuousness, not over-nice.
Very thick—nastiness in tastes.
F irm —energy.
Crooked—timidity.
Sharp—ill-nature.
T h in —hardness of heart.
Slack—weakness.
M obile—inconstancy.
T ight (edges not showing)—order and
coolness.
M outh weU dosed—resolution, firmness.
M outh h a lfopen—weakness, irresolution.
M outh open—weak mentality.
I n a straight line—logical mind.
Too wide—lack of restraint.
Too sm all—archness and frivolity.
T ight—affectation and vanity.
D rooping com ers—habitual sadness.
B rilliant teeth—refined tastes.
Yellow ish—accustomed to work.
Sm all and short—keen mind.
W d l caredfo r —love of order.
Strong, pointed—long life.
Broad and thick—liking for good food.
Prom inent—calm temperament.
B adly cared fo r—careless character, or
mystical disdain of the body.
7.
P rom inent—firmness.
Dimpled—discretion.
F leshy {double)—sensuality.
Curved—meticulous mind.
Receding—weakness.
C left—composure.
Round—great kindness.
R ound and dim pled— amiability.
V ery square—harshness.
P ointed—bad temper.
Ch i n
Straight to the lower lip —frankness,
loyally.
Short and narrow—timidity.
Short and round—constancy.
Roughly angular—avarice.
Square and projecting—ambition.
C ontinuing straight fro m the cheeks—
audacity.
N on-existent—degeneracy.
> The Mouth has been considered so important in Physioguomony that whole volumes of
observations have been devoted to it, sueh as Buecomania (1851) by William Rogers, in which,
in addition to the information given above, the following is found:—
Any mouth twioe as wide as the eye indicates stupidity. Do not be afraid of anything
from a person who in all the movements of the soul maintains a graceful mouth. The more
tlie month is closed and the chin broad, the more rigid and obstinate the character. The slack*
ness or firmness of the lips corresponds to that of the character, etc. According to Rogers the
mouth is sufficient to denote the oharacter. And did not Herder write this graciousline :—
The mouth is the cup of love and the chalice of truth.
114
8 . T h r o a t
B ound and well-formed neck—gentleness.
Long andflexible—supple nature.
S tiff and thin—intolerance.
T hick and large—strength, power.
T hick and awkward—temper.
Long and slender—phlegm.
B entforw ard—beggar or inquisitive.
B ent to the right—studious.
B ent to the left—dissipation.
T H E OC C U
9.
Sm all—refined tastes.
Large and fla t—mediocre intellect.
W ithout rim —total lack of intelligence.
Badly-shaped and pale—cretinism.
T hick and swollen—
-alowmind.
T hick at the tip only—unrefined greedi
ness.
M assive and rounded—vulgarity.
Narrow and rounded—high ability.
Placed very high— cynicism .
Pointed {top and bottom)—caustic spirit.
a n d N e c k
V eryfa t—sensuality.
Short and wide—brutality.
B ent inw ard—cowardice.
Back o f the neck swollen and bare—
scnBual appetites.
Overlapping—hrutishneas.
Very thtn and very high— egoism, strong
will.
Slightly hollow—vanity.
' S C I E N C E S
W ell-shaped, good rim and somewhat
large—great commonsense and well-
developed intellect.
W ell drawn and rim m ed, p in k colour—
tendency to eloquence.
Large ana smooth, very open—musical
abilities.
S et dose to the head—obstinacy.
Deladted—cunning and ability.
Set somewhat low, sinuous outline—good
nature.
10.
Square type—energy, thoughtfulness.
Longish square—duplicity.
L ongish round—prudent ambition.
Longish oval—nobility of feeling.
Square type—energy, orderliness, mor
ality.
Longish square—hardness.
Longish round—alert and independent
mind.
H e a d 1
Me n
Longish triangular—spontaneity, strong
will.
Short conoid—ingratitude, egotism.
Wo m e n
Open oval—ambition.
Longish oval—imagination, faithful
ness.
Short oval— curiosity, devotion.
11 . S k u l l
(See farther on: Phrenology).
• As regards the hood, see farther on our typological table.
P H Y 8 I 0 G N 0 M 0 N Y 115
12. Ha ir
Ijong thin hair—effeminate man.
F lat hair—mind without consistence.
Short and stro ig—energy, strong will.
Black, thick, greasy—love of orderli
ness.
Black and very thin—sensitive nature.
Hard—self-willed.
Hard and crinkly—obstinacy.
Veryfrizzy—imitative mind.
S ilky and very fine—versatile mind.
T h in and sparse—practical mind.
a n d B e a r d
Caroty-red—entirely good or entirely
bad.
Veryfa ir—dreamy character.
Fair—gentleness.
Golden—nobility, open mind.
D ark chestnut—accommodating nature.
With light meshes—doubtful faithfulness.
Black—resolution, violence.
Very black—jealousy.
A sh blond (in women)—leaning towards
the arts.
13. B o d y , H e i g h t a n d P r o po r t i o n s
A harmonious and well proportioned figure indicates a good physical
and moral health. In addition we give below some details:—
Unequal shoulders—delicacy of mind.
M assive shoulders —strength without
distinction.
Broad shoulders—power.
Pointed shoulders— difficult character.
M uscular and hard arms—hard work.
Fleshy and soft arms—phlegm.
H airy arm s—-dissoluteness and curiosity.
A rm s very hairy—bra/.enness.
A rm s without hair—mean revenges.
Short arms—dissoluteness.
IjQng arms—bravery und generosity.
Curved arms— love of money.
Broad chest—sign of strength.
Narrow chest—weakness.
Smooth chest— prudence and wisdom.
H airy chest—voluptuous nature.
Very broad chest—d aring.
Hollow chest—degeneracy.
F at chest—laziness.
Red chest—inconstancy and pride.
Broad back—conciliating mind.
M edium back—good balance.
Narrow bad:—small minded, quibbling.
H umped (or bent) bock—intelligence and
jealousy.
Broad stomach—swagger.
Narrow stomach—business ability, aus
terity.
Big stomach—sensuality.
T hin stomach—love and melancholy.
H airy stomach—passion for adventure.
U g s nervy and thin—weakness, timidity.
Legs nervy and muscular—audacity and
firmness.
Legs short and fa t—bad temper and
cruelty.
Legs long—magnanimity.
Legs swollen and soft—impotence.
Legs twisted or hollow—thieves and evil
doers (excepting congenital malforma
tions).
Feet big—solidity.
Feet with thick ankles—plebeian origin.
Sm allfeet—breeding.
Feet without hair—weakness.
Feel normally hairy—perfect balance.
Feet with harsh hair— debauchery.
Flat feet—despicable individual.
H ard feet— close intellect.
Soft feet—lightness.
Longfeel (in women)—easy conception.1
1The “ Grand Albert ” claims that in order to know tho measure of the secret charm of
a woman, it is necessary to tako half tho length of her left foot. Other authors say that such
length is in harmony with tho size of the mouth.
116 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
14. Sk in a n d W r in k l e s
Whiteandsoftakin—phlegm.
Delicate, fine and smooth skin—weak
ness.
Oliveskin—melancholy.
Brownorreddishskin—bad temper.
Pole skin—self-sufficiency.
Somewhat bright complexion—great
openness.
Pronouncedcomplexion—bad tempered.
Matcomplexion—great sensitiveness.
Yellowishcomplexum—very nervous.
Suddenflushings—timidity.
Wrinkles on the forehead—thoughtful
mind.
Premature wrinkles— impulsiveness,
cares.
Straight wrinkles—upright judgment.
Wrinkles numbering seven—constancy
and seriousness.
Twistedwrinkles—
duplicity, falseness.
Wrinkles turning towards the left—
hypocrisy.
Brokenwrinkles—versatility.
Verticalwrinkles—discreet firmness.
Wrinkles incomerof eyes(crow’sfeet)—
business men, preoccupied.
Nowrinklesat dtt—
flawless character.
Finally, the wrinkles on each side of
the nose show a thoughtful mind,
with mathematical leanings.
15. V o ic e . L a u g h a n d Sig h s
Trenchan voice—violent temperament.
Honeyedvoice—intriguingtemperament.
Sonorousvoice—cheerful temperament.
Hollowvoice—melancholytemperament.
Tiredvoice—saddened temperament.
Unctuousvoice—pious temperament.
Highpitchedvoice—slanderoustempera
ment.
Persuasive voice—noble temperament.
Harmoniousvoice—charmer’s voice.
Hoarsevoice—choleric temperament.
Trembling voice—impressionable tem
perament.
Nasal voice—mediocre temperament.
Metallicvoice—clear and precise mind.
Thinlaugh—hardness of heart.
Noisylaugh—superficial gaiety.
Open laugh—frankness.
Laughthroughclenched(Seth—dissimula
tion.
Laugh which causes triangular hollows
in thecheeks—
jealousy."
Laughwithrounddimplein thecheeks—
generous sensitiveness.
Laugh showing the upper gums—indis
cretion.
Smilewithoutreason—trickery.
Gracioussmile—kindness.
Disdainful smile—self-sufficiency.
Involuntarycries—weak will.
Repressedcomplaints—strong will.
Markedsobs—weakness.
16. W a l k
Lively—blundering activity.
Careless—laziness.
Agitated—unequal temper.
Uniform and moderate—
wisdom and
thoughtfulness.
Counting steps—meticulousness, hesita
tion.
On the toes—timidity, indecision.
Striking on the heel—vanity, ostenta
tion.
Putting the foot well down—frankness
and loyalty.
Straight ahead—decided will.
Slanting—falseness, cunning.
With the feel turned inward—general
weakness.
P H Y S I O G N O M O N Y 117
17. Mo v emen t s
Angular— tr e n c h a n t m in d .
Rounded off— c o n c ilia tin g m in d .
Numerous— n e rv o u sn ess, a ffe c ta tio n .
Fete— w isd o m , coolness.
Looking down from above— d isd a in fu l
c o n d escen sio n .
Looking over the shoulder— c o n ceit.
Frequent shrugging o f the shoulders— self-
su fficien cy.
Upward— silly p rid e.
Downward— m o d e sty .
Uncertain—tim id ity .
Studied— d a n g ero u s se lf-m a ste ry .
Body forward— carelessn ess — b ra z e n
ness.
Stam ping of thefeet— im p a tie n c e .
Im posing attitude — sw a g g e r, p la y
a c tin g .
Some authors draw moral deductions from warts and spots on the
face. We have not thought it necessary to follow them as far asthis.
IV
Love and Physiognomony
By applying the principles of morphological Physiognomony to
the period of love, L. Mario, in a quite well constructed book1 gives
the following advice, by which those in love may profit:—
A young wrinkled forehead denotes a thoughtful mind, somewhat
melancholy. However, an excess of
wrinkles indicates a lack of coolness,
of restraint in impressions. Generally
wrinkles going upward mean a cheerful
character.
If in the young face of a woman
laughter brings a mass of lines at the
corners of the eyes, this is a good
sign of moderation. A vertical line
appearing on the forehead at times
indicates habits of diligence and
prudence.
Wrinkles round the mouth denote
a tendency to pouting, even to temper.
So beware, gentlemen. And you also,
young ladies, ladies who are going to
choose husband or lover, for these
wrinkles, caused by a bitter character,
forebode rain or tempests in the sky of
your loves.
• L . M ario. I n Love— W hat m a y be read on the P hysiognom ony (published b y N ilsson).
Premature wrinkles round the nose spell mockery in girls, meanness
in boys.
The complexion is influenced by the action of theblood, and con
sequently accords with certain states of the soul. Mistrust him who,
when angry, turns pale. He is deceitful, perhaps vindictive. A girl
who frequently changes colour thus shows her sensitiveness and her
openness. If she blushes at the sight of a young man who comes
near her, this means avowal or shyness.^ A bright colour belongs to
the frank type, a too bright one to theimpatient. A yellowish com
plexion belongs to the envious man (save in the case of illness). A
pimpled complexion is not normal in young people.
The type representing the best combination of qualities is:—
In women:—Nose regular (delicate feeling), somewhat strong
(thought), mouth Arm with fleshy lips (kindness, normal sensuality),
chin well marked (gentle will), eyes well opened (care), eyebrows well
arched (frankness), ear proportioned, hips broad, neck round, some
what fat at the back (see the face p. 117).
In men:—Nose somewhat strongly divided from the forehead by
a imperceptible dent (nobility), facial angle open(intelligence), forehead
broadanahighbutwithoutexcess,mouthwellmarked,hairflatwithout
being hard. If the hair is chestnut and the eyes at the same time are
S , the likelihood is stronger that you are face to face with a good
worthy lad.
On the other hand, lovers all, distrust him (or her) who does not
look straight at you, who speaks of love with eyebrows like this,
/ \ whose nose is thinnerat the root, withthe whiteofthe eyeslightly
yellowish, soft cheeks, feet tending to turn inward, bent bade, the
left hand a little larger than the right (sign ofjealousy), a tight mouth,
canine teeth prominent.
118 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Another book, very important on a likewise important though
delicate subject, is that of Dr. B. Zenope, of the Pasteur Institute,
which ought to be in all hands, and deals with the morphological
characteristics ofsexuality. 1
After having shown that the sexual act is indispensable to health,
and havingtherefore in the name ofnature and of morality condemned
the ecclesiastical celibacy, which by the way does not in any way
compd to absolute abstinence (which could only be obtained by a
castration), Dr. Zenope insists on the danger of marriages which are
physically badly matched fromthe sexual point of view. It is in fact,
he says, a mistake often terrible in its results, for a genetically weak
* Boa to Choott out'a Wifa or one'* Buabani (published by the Oranie Libraxtit Mondials
at Constantinople).
man (which generally is in no way his fault) to marry a woman too
ardent for him, and just as much for a *strong’ man to unite himself
with a womaninsufficientlyovarian; fora delicateand notvery sensual
girl to take a hyperorchidian husband, or for a strong wench to give
herhandto himwhowillbe unableto satisfy her. Allthesecases result
in diseases, infidelities—marital hell.
It is therefore worth while going into the question, and if this is
nota matterof occultism, it is physiognomonismof thegreatestinterest.
We therefore thought we ought to give a moment to it and reproduce
our author's table of outer signs of sexualities.
Various signs of female sexuality:—
Figure.—A short figure (less than 5 feet), stout or thin, indicates
ovarian and thyroid insufficiency, and consequently choleric, changeable,
calculating character: sexualtemperament averse from enjoyment, threat
of obesity, gout, diabetes.
A tall figure, stout or thin, indicates ovarian insufficiency only.
The character may be not detestable, but the temperament remains
cold.
Cheeks.—Big and red:—hyperthyroid, hence bad character and
sensually cold.
Thin (without being hollow) and pale ina womanof medium height:
—normal ovaries, hence lovingcharacterandgoodsexual temperament.
Parents who are thin, without diabetes, albuminuria or arterio
sclerosis, generally have daughters of the same kind.
Hair.—On the face (lips), fore-arm, thigh:—certain ovarian in
sufficiency, hence risk in everything and promise of diseases.
Throat.—When the lower part of Adam’s apple is swollen and hard
and the thyroid is large:—sadness, bad temper, coldness.
Breasts.—Thickness of the tips of the breasts is a good sign of an
ardent temperament. Small effaced nipples are a sign of impotence.
Body.—Athick body (not to beconfounded with a body accidentally
swollen) is a sign of ovarian or thyroid insufficiency. Bad character
if the figure is short, indifferent if it is tall. Arthritic temperament.
General obesity is likewise a bad sign.
Eyebrows.—Marked vertical lines:—insufficiency, bad temper.
Rules.—This is one of the safest signs if it is possible to know them.
Abundant regular rules (every 28 days) and lasting 5 days:—
Excellent normal ovaries.
Insufficient, irregular, painful, short rules:—abnormal ovaries.
Let us not forget, without going into detail, that the glands are of
immense importance. The thyroid gland, below Adam’s apple, is
called that of “ bad temper ” because its irregular secretion causes
this.
P H Y S I O G N O M O N Y 119
120
The ovarian gland is dual and forms the ovaries of women.
As to the word orchidy, the reader will guess its meaning, as also
the reason why a woman is chosen according to whether her hips are
broad or narrow.
Signs of male sexuality :—
Figure.—Tall (thin or stout) indicates moderate power; if short,
hyperorchidy (unless the head is small, the shoulders and hips narrow,
in which case orchidian insufficiency).
H air.—Ifbytheageoftwentyaboyhasneitherbeardnormoustache
—insufficiency.
Cheeks.—Roughly the same signs as in women.
Voice.—Harsh—hyperorchidy. Thin, childish—insufficiency.
Body.—As soon as it begins to get stout, powers begin to decrease.
H air.—It generally begins to turn white at the same time as the
secretion begins to decrease.
Obesity and mark between the eyebrows.—Same as in women.
These observations are so true (but we have condensed them, and
those interested must not rest satisfied with them) that Mr. Zenope
by means of them explains certain racial characteristics.
“ How can we be surprised,” he says, “ that Frenchmen should
have the reputation of being amorous, somewhat frivolous, in any
case loving woman much? Most of them are of medium height,
dark, pale, hence normal orchidians and often even hypcrorchidians.
“ Englishmen on the other hand have all the symptoms of genital
insufficiency—tall figure, thinness, red cheeks, etc. This does not
mean that they are incapable of having children. But they are for
this reason of a cold temperament, not very sexual.
“ The Orientals are often hypcrorchidians, lascivious, vicious and
poetical; their women, suffering from thyroid insufficiency, are lazy
and not very intelligent.”
Andforourselveswe askin conclusion:—Whenwill the ante-marital
medical certificate become of general use ? Why do not two families
who wish to unite their children, each ask the advice of the doctor
ofthe otherfamily, whowoulds a y (1) ifthe youngman(orthe young
woman) is healthy, and above ail not syphilitic, and (2) what kind of
sexuality he (or she) has, so as to know whether their temperaments
are matched in this respect.
To unite in marriagetwo equal fortunes or social positions is a good
thing. To unite in marriage two corporal and mental harmonies is
perhaps better still.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
121
PHYSIOGNOMONY
V
Elements o f Phrenology
Intellectual brother of Lavater and his passionate admirer, Gall
is the inventor of Phrenology.
Francis Joseph Gall, bom in 1758 in the Grand Duchy of Baden,
devoted himself early to the study of the brain and to the researches
which were to lead to his system. I t is said that having noticed at
school the successes of those of his fellow pupils who were endowed
with large and prominent eyes, and who all had a good memory, he
concluded th a t if memory seems to have such an outer sign, the same
must of necessity be the case with the remaining faculties. I t was
in 1796 th at he opened in Vienna his famous lectures on the anatomy
of the brain and on the data of phrenology. At the start his work was
made easier by his obtaining for his researches the entry into prisons
and hospitals, heads of persons condemned to death, etc. He himself
moulded a quantity of skulls of persons of all kinds. B ut the Church
interfered, claiming th at his teaching led to fatalism and to materialism,
although the master denied this. Meanwhile his reputation spread.
He went to Paris in 1807, became a naturalised Frenchman, gave
lectures which were very well attended and wrote a book of the greatest
importance.1
But like so many innovators, he antagonised “ officialdom.” The
doors of the Academy of Sciences were dosed against him, and this
upset him much. Mocked, neglected, he sank into poverty, and in
1828 he took refuge in Montrouge, where he died at the age of sixty,
brokenby fatigue and sorrow, leavingawidowin distress, anabequeath*
ing to the School of Medicine in Pam his own skull and his collections.
His pupil Spurzhcim successfully continued the work of the master
in England and in America, where he died in 1882. Then the doctrine
was taken up, augmented, arranged by Broussais, Fossati, Bouillaud,
Combes, Vimont, Poupin, Saler—but attacked by Sarlandi&re, Cerise,
Lelut, Flourens. We propose to explain it briefly, drawing attention
to the fact a t least th a t Gall has placed the exclusive metaphysicians
under the necessity of reckoning with the rationalism of physiology,
and this is a not inconsiderable result. As to the astral sign-manual,
this need not be taken into account for the purpose of practising good
phrenology. However, for those who are willing to adm it it—and we
have given proofs of its truth and of its interest—it will but corroborate
the data of Physiognomony in general, phrenology included.
• The Anatomy and Phyeiology of the Nervous System and of the Brain in particular
(4 volumes with 100 engraved plates).
122
The skull being moulded on the brain, its surface reproduces the
shapethereof.1 Andasthe brainisthe scat ofourfaculties, if it is seen
that persons having a given talent, vice, orvirtue, all seemto have the
same part of the skull particularly developed, there would appear
to be authority forthe beliefthat the subjacent part of the brain is the
seat of that talent, that vice, or that virtue.
Phrenology or Craniology is therefore the study of the psychology
of the individual based on the peculiarities of his skull.
Undoubtedly the circumvolutions of the brain must be taken into
account, and on the other hand the peculiarities of the skull are not
direct signs of the dispositions of the substance of the brain, but they
reveal them “ like the protuberances of a bag the contents of which
we try to guess by feeling it with the hand.” (G. Robert).
Without going into the details of the anatomy of the brain, let us
remember that its organs correspond to three classes of faculties—the
instincts, thefeelings, andthe abilities (perceptive or reflective).
Accordingto the phrenologists, the instincts occupy, apart fromthe
forehead, the whole of the surface which remains uncovered when
we put our hat on; the feelings occupy the space covered by the hat,
and the abilities the remainder.
Theinstincts ortendenciesinPhrenologynumberten:—amativeness,
philogeniture, habitativeness (or concentrativeness), affection, combat*
iveness, destructiveness, alimentivencss, secretiveness, acquisitiveness,
constructiveness.
Thefeelingormoralfaculties numbertwelve:—self-esteem, approba-
tiveness, circumspection, benevolence, veneration, firmness, conscien
tiousness, hope, admiration, idealism, cheerfulness, imitativeness.
The abilities or perceptions fall into two classes:—
(a) perceptive faculties:—
individuality, configuration, extent, weight
(resistance), colour, locality, arithmetic, orderliness, eventuality,
time, tone, language;
(b) reflective facultiescomparison, causality.
All this is somewhat complicated, and some ofthe names areplainly
barbarous. Let us try to simplify and to speak a language which is
less difficult for the layman.
Let us first study the instincts and their phrenological places.*
' Sec, however, the reservations stated at the end of this sub-ohapter.
* All the following is the summing up of the book of G. Robert, The Art of Knowing the
Qualities and tht Dejecta of People (published by Gamier in 1003) which all those who wantmore
details on these interesting questions ought to get. But the treatise of Delcstre may also be
consulted.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
P H Y S I O G N O M O N Y 1 23
1. Amativeness.
2. Philogeniture.
3. Habitativcnes3.
4. Affection.
5. Combativeness.
6. Destructiveness.
7. Alimentiveness.
8. Secretiveness.
0. Acquisitiveness.
10. Constructiveness.
11. Self-esteem.
12. Approbativencss.
13. Circumspection.
14. Benevolence.
15. Veneration.
10. Perseverance.
17. Conscientiousness.
18. Hope.
19. Admiration.
20. Idealism.
21. Cheerfulness.
22. Imitativeness.
23. Individuality.
24. Configuration.
25. Extent.
26. Resistance.
27. Locality.
28. Arithmetic.
29. Orderliness.
30. Comparison.
31. Colour.
32. Time.
33. Language.
34. Causality.
35. Eventuality.
124 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Amativeness.—This is the sense of love. Its organ is the little brain
(at the back of the brain) which is generally more developed in man.
If he is sanguine and vigorous, he leans towards ardent love when
sustained by the instinct of affection, and towards jealousy when
sustained by the instinct of secretiveness.
On the other hand the weak man, if his instincts of courage and
destruction are not strong, will incline towards solitude.
When the organ is atrophied, it means indifference to voluptuousness,
excessive shyness, and in women leaning to celibacy, even tne cloister.
Philogentiure.—Paternal or maternal instinct, the seat of which
is the middle part of the little brain. This organ is more marked in
women.
Combined with the instincts of acquisitiveness and habitativeness,
it makes good parents.
In parricides and infanticides it has been noticed th a t this organ
is missing. A mad woman in the Salp£tri£rc, in whom it was highly
developed, used to nurse blocks of wood in her arms.
Habitativeness.—The love of the horde. This tendency illumines
with its circumference the apophysis of the occiput.
Affection.—Its scat is outside and above that of philogeniture.
I t is the social instinct. I t must not be confounded with benevolence.
By itself it is commonplace and fails to select. Combined with the
instinct of love it leads to fatiguing attentions.
Combativeness.—Above the preceding. Quarrelsome people, says
Gall, have th at part of the head a t the Dack and level with the ears,
broader and more developed than cowards. If well supported by
other good instincts, it makes brave, but if badly supported, foolhardy.
I t is highly developed in the cock and the lion. I t is weak in women
and chudren. Turenne had it very strongly marked.
I t is absent in timid persons frightened by life (these are sometimes
inclined to commit suicide) and who, putting up with every injustice,
lead a painful existence.
Destructiveness.—This organ makes a ridge somewhat behind the
ear. A tendency dangerous to social life. Edgar Allan Poe called
it the instinct of perversity. I t is marked in him who beats animals,
ill-treats children and women, and also in carnivorous animals. Tendency
to evil, even to murder.
Alimentioeness.—This is appetite. Its seat between destructiveness
and constructiveness.
Well developed it indicates leaning towards greediness and drunken
ness.
Secreliveness.—A little above the top of the ear.
Much developed it means trickery, lying, dissimulation (for instance
in the fox and tnc raven).
125
Supported by passions and necessity it leads to theft, to indelicate
actions.
Acquisitiveness.—Its seat, bulging and longish, is above and a
little in front -of the preceding. I t is the sense of economy and of
good management. Exaggerated it leads to avarice.
United to combativeness, hope and idealism, indicates a brave and
adventurous character.
If lacking—prodigality, lack of orderliness.
ConstrucHveness.—lSeated in th at part of the forehead situate
immediately above the temples.
Combined with idealism and admiration, it makes ingenious and
inventive writers.
Together with configuration, extent and weight—architects,
engineers.
Together with language, comparison, causality—advocates and
pedants.
Together with orderliness and arithmetic—inventors and mechanics.
I t Is a tendency which is of value only through its alliances. This
bump gives skill to the good workman, genius to the great leader,
diplomatic skill to the negotiator.
Let us pass on to the examination ofthe moral and affective faculties.
Self-esteem.—Is situate at the intersection of the circumference
of the skull and an imaginary straight line starting a t the extreme
tip of the chin and passing through the greater part of the exterior
ear.
If excessive—pride and disdain of others.
Normal—excellent moral restraint, leading to good feelings.
Very marked in the peacock, the turkey, the cock, the pheasant,
which have lost this restraint and make themselves unbearable by their
vanity.
Approbaiiveness♦
—Principle of emulation. To it we owe devotion,
the desire to please, the need of esteem. Its phrenological place is
vertically and laterally above the preceding.
Combined with self-esteem it produces a very fine character.
Alone and without useful complements—debasing concessions and
compliances, vanity, thirst for praise.
Worldings often have this organ to excess. Dogs are well provided
with it.
Circumspection.—In the middle of the imaginary line which ends in
self-esteem.
Well developed—thoughtfulness, foresight—as in oxen and other
herbivorous animals.
Benevolence.—In the middle of the upper forehead.
P H Y S I O O N O M O N Y
126
One of the best faculties. I t complements affection. Makes us
gentle and charitable.
Very noticeable in elephants and dogs.
Veneration.—At the top of the head equally distant from the
apophysis of the occiput and the middle of the eyebrows above the
nose. Very pronounced in savages.
This faculty inclines to credulity, religiosity, servile respect for the
uniform.
If not too marked—deference to old people and women, genius,
work, the law.
Combined with affection—domesticity.
Firmness, perseverance.—At the rear of the preceding organ, on the
middle line separating the two halves of the brain.
Element of strong will. Fine attribute. The soul of great work.
Its overdevelopment leads to obstinacy which is the vice of strong
will.
Conscientiousness.—At the rear and side extremity of each medial
lobe.
I t produces justice, duty, love of truth. Makes magistrates in*
corruptible and legislators enlightened. Indispensable in him who
governs or commands.
If it is lacking, there is risk of want of proportion in all things.
Hope.—Below veneration, it illumines the centre of the medial
lobe (a little higher up).
Auxiliary to strong will, but veils perils and may lead to carelessness.
If absent—continual disappointments.
United with constructiveness—makes vast undertakings and great
inventions possible.
Admiration.—In the middle of the intersection of the anterior
and medial lobes.
Love of the great, the unknown, the extraordinary. Leads to
exaggerations.
If absent in anyone who is upright—dear sight and wisdom.
Idealism.—Subjacent to the preceding.
Causes love of the beautiful, a brilliant imagination, the sense of
progress.
B ut may lead to extravagance, a taste for tinsel and the fantastic. ,
Cheerfulness.—A little above the arch of the eyebrows.
Gives a love of <prips, aptitude to mockery.
This bump is highly developed in Henn IV, Gresset, the comic
authors.
Imitatioeness.—That portion of the skull which skirts on each side
the point of the hair. Its point ends on the open middle of the forehead.
Very common in parrots, monkeys, blackbirds and many animals.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
The cause of numerous actions copying others and without much
thought.
Impedes the personality. B ut enables artists to discdVer the
movements of truth. This organ was highly developed in the skull
of the noted actor Debureau.
At last we come to the intellectual facilities.
Individuality.—A t the juncture of the eyebrows, immediately above
the base of the nose. N ot to be mixed with temperament. This
concerns the memory of physiognomies, the power to distinguish
between likenesses, to study objects individually.
Configuration.—Adjoins the preceding laterally, following the
outline of the eyebrows.
I t is the sense of proportion following on the perfection of touch
and sight.
Extent.—Follows the preceding.
Correct estimate of distances, approximate estimate of heights
and depths.
Weight (or Resistance).—At the top of the eyebrow ridge.
This organ gives a clear idea of the weight and resistance of objects.
Tendency to dynamics.
Colouring (or Chromatic).—Seated on the arch of the eyebrows.
Perceives the colours and their harmonies. Highly developed
in Raphael and Rubens.
Is sometimes lacking (Daltonism).
Locality.—To the right and left of the upper edge of individuality.
Sense enables places seen to be distinctly remembered.
Very developed in dogs and pigeons.
Arithmetic.—The bump of arithmetic is at the outer angle of the
eye. Sometimes, when highly developed, it causes the outer part of
the upper lid to project i Education increases it, but an ignorant
person may have it. I t is a spontaneous gift.
Newton, Descartes, the famous mathematicians and arithmeticians,
had this bump very prominently.
Orderliness.—Projection on the ridge of the eyebrows, a t the start
of the downward line.
Im portant—taste for logic, clearness, method, classification.
Eventuality (memory of things, educability).—Astride on the medial
line of the forehead.
Combined with idealism—fertile imagination.
Missing—lack of remembrance, therefore of experience.
Time.—On the inside of the arch of the eyebrows.
Ability to estimate the lapse of time, to remember dates. The
principle of rhythm.
P H Y S I O Q N O M O N Y 127
128
Tone.—At the extreme end of the eyebrow ridge.
Sense of method and of harmony.
Languages.—Behind the eyeball which it pushes out or allows to
sink according to its excess or its insufficiency.
Comparison.—In the centre of the forehead. Missing in most
animals. Gives the power of comparing, of symbols. Valuable in
philosophy.
Causality.—A t the top of the forehead. Broussais had this bump
enormously developed, also Curie. I t is the essential gift of scientists
and scholars.
• • • • • •
Gall summed up the preceding data under three heads, and divided
the phrenological characteristics of the head into three classes:—
1. Intellectual characteristics indicated by a predominant forehead.
2. Moral characteristics indicated by a considerable distance between the
top and the centre of the skull.
3. Instinctive characteristics, when the lateral and rear parts are the more
important.
However, his doctrine was chiefly based on the relations between
the faculties, allowing the possibility of development of the original
powers—a mediocre intellect, for instance, improving thanks to strong
instinctive passions, or a formation of the brain being modified by
education, surroundings, events. In short, Phrenology gives hints
as to the mental constitution. I t must not be asked to do more.
The collection of skulls bequeathed by Gall bears out his theories
to a considerable extent.
Specially to be noted a re:—
Skull No. 168, of a professor of libidinous temperament—notable
development of the organ of physical love.
Skull No. 82, that of the murderer Papavoine—very prominent
organ of the tendency to murder.
Skull No. 286, that of the executed Voirin—same remark.
Plaster cast of Henri IV. His cheerfulness, his benevolence, his
acquisitiveness are marked.
The mask of Cartouche—penetration, love of disguise, memory,
trickery and theft.
Mask No. 281—the Italian sculptor Ceracchi, conspirator and patriot,
who tried to assassinate Napoleon when he was First Consul—organs
of pride, destructiveness and mechanics very marked.
Skull No. 161 is that of a leader of brigands with organs of ambition
and leadership developed.
No. 157, bust of AbW Gauthier, professor and philanthropist.
His most noted organs are goodness, love of children, educability.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
The bust of Buffon shows poetic sense, educability, configuration,
locality, colouring.
Busts of Leibnitz, Pica della Mirandola—types of fine cerebral
development.
Plaster copy of bust of Raphael—very marked sense of colour.
Head of Gluck (10), bust of Gretry (108), mask of Liszt (66), indica
tions of sound, veneration.
Goethe (5), poetry. Memory for words. Comparison.
Bacon (89), Voltaire (60)—comparative sagacity. Wit.
Skull 188—Eva Castel, celebrated cartomancer—taste for admira
tion.
Mask of W alter Scott, Tasso, the mystic Dehayes—same note.
Heads of Richelieu, Charles X II, Napoleon, Lamennais—types
of firmness of character.
A visit to the Gall Museum, as also to the Dumontier and Vimont
Museums, is therefore very instructive. The Vimont Museum in
particular has one of the most remarkable and most complete collections
of skulls of animals.
Apart from these museums, famous skulls have been preserved
and thoroughly studied. Let us remember for instance th at the Ubump
of criminality ” is most marked not only in common murderers, but
also in Catherine de Medici who flogged her servants, and in the Comte
de Charolais (18th century) who tortured women who were decoyed
to his house by accomplices.
P H Y S I O G N O M O N Y 129
We cannot close these pages without relating some typical anecdotes
about Gall and his system.
One day (at the height of his fame) he invited to breakfast some
sixty cabdrivers, and asked them before the meal if he might examine
their skulls. He thereupon examined them one by one from the point
of view of quarrelsomeness, and divided them into groups, from the
quietest to the most irascible. After this he gave them plenty to eat
and drink.
At dessert his forebodings did not fail to materialise. Some of
those in whom the bump of love of squabbling was pronounced began
to chaff or insult the others, whereupon those who had similar phreno
logical signs retorted. Hence violent quarrels and great fighting, whilst
the men in whom the same bump was only slightly marked remained
calm and patient.
At a German University, a student asked Gall to examine him,
which the Master did, telling him afterwards that he had found the
bump of self-defence fairly strongly marked (polite expression so as
not to tell him th at he too was quarrelsome). The young man
protested that he was most qpet, and the professor was astounded that
he should be mistaken on this point, but some time afterwards he met
his “ pacifist ” being taken away by the police. He learnt th at the
student had cone into an inn, had quarrelled with the firstcomer and
taking up a chair had hit out right and left among the visitors i
Attempts were naturally made to test the knowledge of Gall. As
he was passing through Italy, some people brought him a skull in plaster
and asked him what he thought of it.
“ I t is that of a great artist,” said Gall after having felt it.
I t was in fact a moulding taken from the authentic skull of Raphael.
By practice Gall arrived at such a certainty of diagnosis, that
sometimes it was enough for him to look at people in order to guess
their tendencies, and this always excited the admiration and also the
dread of those with whom he mixed.
One evening there was in a drawing room a large gathering of men
and women o f the world, philosophers and scientists. Gall's claims
were discussed before him, some thinking them exaggerated, and the
greatest talkers, who were antagonistic to the phrenologist, were on
the point of carrying the day, mien a caller was announced who was
a total stranger to nun.
Gall immediately asked for permission to look at the newcomer
for a moment, and turning to him whilst scrutinising him with his
sharp eye he said:
“ This gentleman will help me to convert you. I do not know
him, and he has never met me. But I am inclined to think th at he is
a collector.”
The stranger, much surprised, assented.
“ But what would you think if I told you that he collects, not
insects or plants or medals, but pictures ? ”
The guest, by now utterly astounded, said that it was correct, and
the incredulity of all was turned to admiration.
In 1828, at a time when he was at his own house giving lessons in
phrenology to numerous medical students or hospital pupils, the latter
one evening placed on his table the head of a murderer who had been
executed that very morning and which they had been able to
obtain.
“ Oh, what a dreadful headl ” exclaimed the professor, and taking
it in his hands, he felt it and used it as the subject for his lecture,
knowing only that it was that of an executed man. He described its
bumps, showing the prominence of the senses and of the desires, his
gloomy and destructive character, his love of a solitude which favoured
nis dark designs, his sickly disposition, his ferocity combined with
cunning, and everything which probably had led him to this kind of
crime.
130 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
The amazed students were listening to the tale of the life and the
terrible misdeeds ofL<5ger, which are recorded in the Assizes of Versailles.1
B ut the professor, continuing his demonstration, showed th a t this
head, although so badly shaped, need not necessarily lead to crime.
Other signs showed th a t he might have been able to resist if he had not
been so profoundly ignorant, having been abandoned in his childhood.
He might then have become, as he said, a simple worker without much
intellect, but honestly working for his living.
« • « « * *
And now to sum up.
Phrenology, sister of Physiognomony, is not infallible any more
than the latter, but they are undoubtedly both of great inductive value.
If it is asked why they are here connected with the divinatory arts,
and especially why they are placed at their head, side by side with
Astrology, we should answer:—These two sciences combined into
one do constitute a very scientific and very sure part of the Science
of Destinies, which themselves are the whole of the a rt of divination.
Knowledge of what life will bring us, th at is what we ask of the seers,
be they astrologers, cartomancers, chiromancers, etc. Now Destiny
is written in the features of the face and the shape of the skull just as
much as in the lines of the hand. This does not mean that this or th at
thing foretold will inevitably happen to you. I t means, your line
of destiny follows this or that direction. See whether you should
accept or try to escape the events which logically it entails.
And this destiny, why should it not be bound up with your character
(natural qualities and defects) which induces you to perform this action
rather than th a t other ?
Having already pointed out the necessity in which the earnest
seeker finds himself to rectify his opinion as soon as this is required,
it is but proper th at we should set rignt, in accordance with the progress
of science, all the ancient ideas which need it. Phrenology is already
a century old. Since then the study of the brain has been pursued
and consequently of the local brain centres which, although guessed
at, had taken a concrete form only with Gall. Now it had been observed
th at the skull and the brain were divided by a liquid and by membranes
which considerably decrease the relation set up by the Scientist of
Baden between the wealth of circumvolutions and the bumps of the
head. Nevertheless this relation seemed sufficient to Broca and to
>This unhappy man had at the age of 28 withdrawn into the depth of the woods, on a
rook, and there he lived on game whieh he caughtand devoured alive. One day be threw himself
on a little girl of 16 who had etrayed there, carried her off to his den, mutilated and violated her,
then cut her into pieces for one of hie horrible meala. When arrested by the Law, he made this
appalling reply, “ If I have drunk blood, it ia because I thirsted for it."
P H Y S I O G N O M O N Y 131
Ferrier to enable them to localise in the grey covering of the brain,
fixed centres of motion and of sensory reception.
However the War—the Great War—came, enabling the surgeons
to make many more observations of the so often injured cerebrum of
soldiers. And we were forced with the famous Dr. P. Marie to the
conclusion that these centres, if sometimes inborn, are frequently
modified by education; on the other hand the recent researches of
V. Monokow on the centres of motion indicate th at if the latter present
a hereditary structure, they acquire their functions by use and by
education.
I t follows th at the localisation of the faculties, considered by Gall
as fairly certain, remains rather vague. The proof is th at lesions in
the nerve centres do not always entail the mental troubles foreseen
by Phrenology if the latter were absolutely precise. For instance,
memory can appear at any point of the cortical surface, which explains
its varieties. Take the astounding case of the chessplayer Alelchine
who can beat, with his back turned to them, twenty-eight eminent
players who carefully watch their board; here is a man who can locate
in his brain 1792 squares and 896 pieces and follow the movements
of the pieces without losing sight of one of them, until each of his
opponents acknowledges himself beaten. W hat a special and almost
monstrous bump he ought to have!
According to Dr. J. Laumonier, it would seem finally th at the
psychic faculties belong in common to several nerve elements and
are not the property of one only. However this may be, it remains
true that an enlightened education adapts them to the needs of collective
existence. This is apt to be forgotten, says this physician, who sums
up as follows :—
“ At present, owing to a morbid sensitiveness, the tendency is to let each
one 1live his life.’ To he sore the intellect does not gain hy this, as is proved
by the luck of balance throughout the world, but beneath the veneer of an over
developed culture and the mask of a material progress which wears us out pre
maturely, the elemental instincts regain bo great a power that already the
barbarism of prehistoric times forces our gates and invades our hearths.” 1
V
I
132 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
VI
A Coming Science: Digitomancy
Although we did not mention it in our divisions of Physiognomony,
because it is as yet only in its very early stages, it is as well to speak
here of a science which may be based on the appearance of finger-
* Roview Im Pensit Franfoist, 23rd March, 1023.
prints, and to which M. Georges-Anquetil was anxious to be the first
to give a name. Unfortunately the word Dactylomancy, which would
be appropriate, is already known ; it belongs to one of the main arts of
divination, now out of date and without interest, which used to be
practised (it deals with the use of the ring, and as will be seen, the
name itself is inappropriate). So as to avoid confusion, the word
Digttomancy is suggested by M. A nquetil; but it has the disadvantage
of being badly constructed, being naif Greek and half Latin. If we
might offer another, it would be PoU&comancy, as it is the thum b in par
ticular which is used for the prints.
B ut whatever the name may be, the thing itself is known and is
interesting. I t is well known that the police adds to its personal
descriptions the prints of the fingers, and of the thumb in particular
(this it calls dactyloscopy). I t has as a m atter of fact been observed
th at these prints differ in each individual, and are unalterable in each.
There are no two men who have the same, any more than they have
similar lines in the hand. Hence its great importance in the search
for evildoers, many of whom were found, thanks to the prints left on
articles touched by them in the course of their misdeeds. This identifi
cation (against which it is now tried to guard by the wearing of rubber
gloves) was invented by M. Alphonse Bertillon, based on the numerous
investigations on the subject made by Mr. Dastre and Mr. Lacassagne.
The anthropological authorities were able to arrive a t a classifica
tion of these prints, and there was even an idea of introducing them
into civil life as a complement of the signature to notarially certified
documents, commercial and otherwise, like a stamp, this human seal
making errors and forgeries impossible.
But then, thought M. Georges-Anquetil, if it is true that every
man, every woman, thus bears an individual permanent and recognisable
sign, is it not probable that the variety or the series corresponds to
varieties of temperament, to a sign-manual similar to all the other
morphological signs ? The Orientals had long ago discovered their
im portance; they even claim that these kinds of vortices of fine and
concentric lines Dear a relation to the circumvolutions of the brain.
Who knows, therefore, whether their more or less pronounced physical
clearness does not correspond with a certain mental clearness; in
which case the intermediate shades, from perfect clearness down to
confusion and breaks, would likewise have their meaning.
We leave these thoughts to all those who occupy themselves with
astral sign-manuals. Let them seek, with us, whether there is a
possibility of classification and statistics. For everything is there—
in order to establish a digitomantic science (or pollexomantic, or
dactyloscopic—take whichever word you prefer) it will be necessary
to establish a law of correspondence and a law of frequency.
P H Y 8 I 0 G N 0 M 0 N Y 133
134 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
And in this way a new chapter will be added to those dealing with
the deductive divinatory arts.
VII
Elements of Typology
W ithout referring to traditional methods, or rather by reviving
them with success, Paul Jagot in some interesting books1 gives us a
series of syntheses for the reading of signs-of fate which it was impossible
for us to ignore in this Encyclopaedia, especially as it adorns it with
a scientific cloak under which trie golden vestm ent of the divinatory
sciences can easily persist.
And the proof that the author does not despise Astrology is found
in his writing verbatim :—
" Do the Btars exercise an influence over us 1 Or does the cosmic harmony
entail a strict correlation between all the phenomena which take place at the
same moment 1 I cannot state exactly which of these two hypotheses explains
the connection between the appearance of the sky of nativity and fate, but
what is important to observe isthatthisconnectionhasbeenprovedbyexperiment.”
The presence in a horoscopic sky, he continues (we condense) of
this or that particular dem ent, corresponds both with a definite mode
of reaction of the non-self on the self, and with definite psychic qualifica
tions, with definite organic dispositions, with definite outer forms.
And all this is explained by the law of causality, which, however, in
no way entails the abolition of free will. Both are simply in continual
conflict, and this drama is not without its
greatness.
Unfortunately most people let themselves go
without resistance to their fate. The strong,
the intellectual alone know how to conduct
themselves.
Havingsaid this, and returning to the settled
general principles, M. Jagot draws up the
following rules:—
1. According to the Binary L aw : the lengths
denote statics (ideas, quality), and the breadths,
dynamics (action, quantity).
Thus a narrow and long head corresponds
to a similar hand, a similar writing, etc.
* Rtutalivg Signs of Character and Treatise of Occult Sciences and Practical Magic.
1. PUMWDUIOB O
V
In s t in c t .
135
2. According to the Ternary L aw :—
Vegetativeness corresponds to the lower
part of the face (from the chin to the base of
the nose).
Sensitiveness corresponds to the medial part
(from the base of the nose to the eyebrows).
Intellect corresponds to the upper part
(forehead).
The lower part of the face thus gives
information as to the animal nature, the
orientation of physic needs and instincts.
The medial part as to sentimental impulses,
imagination, impressionability.
The upper part of the face as to thought,
idealism, tneir quality and their importance.
The predominance, insufficiency or balance of these regions therefore
give indications by which to distinguish the instinctive type, the
emotional, the mental. W ith the help of the Binary law, their qualita
tive intensities will be recognised by their height, their quantitative
intensities by their breadth.
In Chiromancy the fingers correspond to the upper, intellectual
part of the face, the mounts of the hand to the media! part, the palm
to the lower part of the face.
In Graphology the correspondences are:—Strokes and curves
above the line, body of the writing, strokes and curves below.
8. According to the Quaternary Law, specially followed by Marc
Haven, the types may be divided in to :—
Lymphatic or phlegmatic, fat, broad, short, somnolent, soft, weak,
lazy.
Sanguine with stout corpulence, powerful assimilation, open red
complexion, cheerful sensuality.
Melancholy or nervy, with dull skin, slow
digestion, taciturn mind, tenacity at work.
Bilious or choleric, thin, yellow skin, hard
pulse, active, daring, impatient, ambitious.
According to the researches of Lacroze and
Polti the shape of the nose is important here.
Any upper concaveness indicates the first of
these types (lymphatic).
Any upper convexity indicates the nervy
type.
Any lower convexity indicates the bilious
temperament.
Any lower concaveness indicates the sanguine.
P H Y S I O G N O M O N Y
3. PaBDOWHAKOB o r
Bmsim m ma.
2. PBBDOMINANCE 07 THE
In t e l l e c t .
136
Gary de Lacroze and Polti have described each of these types
minutely. Their analysis is somewhat lengthy for reproduction here.
Further these types combine and often produce mixed temperaments
a table whereof can be drawn up.
4. According to the Quinary law, the Binary principle by its actio
on the Ternary produces geometrical forms which may be brought
down to five mam types according to whether a face can be drawn
into a square, a circle, a triangle, a cone, an oval.
(a) Square type—energetic nature, firm, settled, argumentative,
observing, sceptical, ordered.
(b) Triangular type—capricious, impulsive, cunning, dashing, con
tradictory, tyrannical, irritable.
(c) Round type—initiative, impetuosity, courage, impudence,
realism, excess, vanity, passions.
(d) Oval type—impressionable, supple, versatile, facile, inspired,
lazy, intuitive.
(e) Conoid type—common sense, delicacy, calculation, calm, jovial,
taste for pleasure, love of money.
As to the chirological and graphological characteristics, these will
usually b e :—
In the square type—massive hand, spatulate fingers; firm close
writing with short strokes;
In the triangular type—thin hands, slender fingers; thin writing,
upper strokes long.
SUMMARY OF THE TABLE OF CORRESPONDENCES
ACCORDING TO P. JAGOT
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Th e
In f l u e n c e OP Su n Mo o n Ma m Me r c u r y J o n rs a VSMUS Sa t u r n
Treds to produce Expansion Absorption Dynamic Convertibility Harmony Conccntratioa
Favour .. .♦ Dash
Expansive
vitality
Objective
(acuities
Discernment
Individuality
Aesthetic
Resistance
Static
vitality
Subjective
faculties
Intuition
Assimilation
Memory
MuKular
M itngtb
Vital energy
Nervous
strength
Adaptiveness
Homogeneity
ffalanr*
Sensual
sharpness
Harmony of
Hypertension
Accumulation
PndispM ti lo Combative
(acuities
Success
Strategy
Adaptive
faculties
Genius
Diplomacy
Sociability
fWnntthtiT
faculties
Order
Equity
Attractive
faculties
Charm
Affection
Family
Superficiality
Constructive
faculties
Philosophy
Mathematics
Synthetic Mctaphyite Combative Practical Priestly Harmonious Critical
lo rlic e lo .. Homogeneous
evolution
Intellectual
evolution
Executive
evolution
Experimental
evolution
Ethical
evolution
Emotional
evolution
Abstract
evolution
In the round type—muscular hand, round fingers; rounded writing
with great curves.
In the oval type—well shaped slim hand, conical fingers; writing
unequal and sloping.
In the conoid type—fleshy hand, square fingers; writing heavy,
broad, lower strokes thick, heavy.
5. According to the Septenary law, we find the seven planetary
types already studied in Astrology. We only refer to them in order
to give a table of predispositions according to the researches and
observations of P. Jagot and the chiro-graphological correspondences
which he has discovered.
We cannot fail to be struck by the deep relationships which exist
between this table and the astrological data already given.
P H Y S I O G N O M O N Y 137
Table o f Chiro-Graphological Correspondences
Solar Type:—Slender, yellow, dry hand, with very thin lines.
Finger conical. Ring finger long. Writing long, full, ordered, harmon
ious, the T firmly and cleanly crossed.
Lunar T ype:—Plump soft hand, with short thumb, smooth and
pointed fingers, lunar mount broad and big. Writing thin, sloping,
round, open, end strokes upwards, T crossing weak.
M artian Type:—Fleshy hard hand, thum b rounded, deep lines,
spatulate fingers, mount of Mars prominent. Writing heavy, angular,
square, legible, T crossings short, club-shaped, downward.
Mercurian Type:—Hand long, fingers narrow at the top, little
finger and thumb long but thin. Writing pleasant, rather high, end
strokes upward, unequal, T crossings clean.
Jupiterian Type:—Hand large, broad, velvety, fingers medium,
conical, mounts large, first finger long. Writing heavy but clear,
high, broad, steady, with rounded lines, large capitals.
Venus Type:—Hand short, fingers pointed, skin white, moist. Lines
thin, heart line long. Writing without order, curved, sloping, pleasant,
light, without T crossings, rather weak.
Saturnian T ype:—Hand long, with rectangular palm, finger joints
knotty, mounts not very defined. Writing squat, angular, thin, close,
without slopes, capitals or spaces.
P. Jagot adds an eighth type, in which animalism predominates :
Earthy Type:—Hand elementary, bony, even, fingers spatulate,
thumb broad, curved inwards. Writing awkward, unequal, heavy,
without order or harmony.1
*
* Soo also the tables of correspondence drawn up by Papus in bb Trtaliat of Practical
Magic, p. 340 tt seq. (published by Chacornac).
138
Having drawn attention to the rules of physiognomonic observation,
the author studies the lack of balance (through excess or through
insufficiency), the harmonies and the dissonances of the stars, the
simple and double predominances, the possibilities of correction, then
draws up a very interesting table of the combinations which give the
greatest hopes of success, and which we reproduce below:—
In order to succeed, it is well to have, according to one’s fate, the
following additions:—
In Letters:—Mercury-Moon.
In the Theatre:—Mercury-Venue-Jupiter.
In the vocal Art:—VenuB-Sun or Venus-Jupiter.
In Painting:—Jupiter-Sun-Venus.
In Music:—Venus Moon-Sun.
In Oratory:—Mercury-Jupiter.
In the exact Sciences:—Satum-Mercury-Sun.
In Finance:—Mercury-Jupiter.
In Medicine.*
—Mercuiy-Mere-Satum.
In P oliticsSun-Jupiter-Mercury.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
B ut we must return to each of the planetary types as they are
seen by Paul Jagot, for nothing is more instructive than to compare
them with the astrological data given in our first chapter; they will
be supplemented, as has just been seen, by an eighth type, called earthy.
The face is a living translation ofthe horoscope, aptly says the author.
We find in it the powerful or attenuated sign of each celestial luminary,
and as these signs are numerous, their connection, their interpretation
(harmonious appearance, conjunction) even their composition (dissonant
appearance—opposition, quadrature).
Let us remember that the sign-manual affects each part of the
face. On the lower part of the face it gives information as to the
instincts, on the middle part as to the feelings, on the upper as to
the mentality. A mere photograph, thoroughly studied, is itself
a document.
And now we come to Typology proper.
Solar Type.—Form composed of lines rectilinear in the centre,
harmoniously curved, in wide sweep, at each end. Homo-
geneous division of the flesh on the bones and the muscles.
f .. g a Complexion mat on a slightly lemon ground. Face placed
in a pure oval. According to Ledos, the head of the
( ly
> V School of Planetary Physiognomony, the solarian (or
V r . / soleian) has the face calm, noble, serious, the forehead
x ' ' arched, the eye at once gentle and severe, the eyeball
P H Y S I O G N O M O N Y 139
saffron dotted with gold, eyelashes long, nose slightly aquiline with
firm end, mouth medium with lips not very thick, red, the chin
rounded, slightly projecting, medium figure and body without hair,
hips arched, not much beard, but generally curly, quiet movements,
measured step, voice pure, seductive.
The solanan, who does not laugh easily and is not communicative,
made to command, magnanimous, is not a great lover. He lives for
himself, hence is rather unhappy in his home, his friendships, his family.
Highly intelligent, he understands everything, but does not specialise.
These remarks may be applied to the three parts of the face and the
necessary deductions made. We need not go into detail.
Lunar Type.—The lunar influence produces round forms, in segments
of the circle, a sallow complexion, and predisposes to swelling. A
round eye will therefore hint at a lunarian (or sclenian) even if the rest
is not of the type.
Ledos, summed up by his pupil Leclercq, shows the
selenian with a very broad prominent forehead, a humid
and grey eye, a short nose with rounded end, a small
moutn barely closed, the chin not very prominent.
The female of this type has beautiful clear blue eyes,
the breasts high, small, firm and charming. Both men
and women are frequently short-sighted. Their character
is mobile, undecided, tim id; much imagination, vagueness
of mind, resignation; they fear conflict, love solitude; they are
intuitive, naturally religious-minded, sensual through the brain. * The
female of the type is rather cold, but caressing, affectionate; she
sometimes has a strange power over men.
Martian Type.—Straight tight features. Flesh in muscular masses,
with prominent and clean angles. Complexion red. Face may be
drawn into a square. Dynamically powerful.
Generally the head is small, muscular, with high
forehead and broad temples, thick eyebrows which easily
meet, eyes open, daring and hard. Checks muscular and
cheekbones prominent. Nose like an eagle’s beak, with
dilated nostrils. Mouth disdainful, chin square. Neck
muscular and short. Shoulders broad. Chest bulging.
Voice strong and harsh. Gait insolent. Strength, will
power, daring ; but also carelessness ; quick tem per;
intolerance and brutal frankness. Everything passionately—good or
evil. They are daring in love and know how to make themselves loved,
but they do not forgive adultery. Passionate gamblers.
Mercurian Type.—Face drawn into a lengthy oval. Flesh thin
and fiat. Greyish complexion. Body slender and well made. Delicate
limbs, graceful and supple, quick hands. Keeps young-looking.
140 T H E OCCUL T S C I E N C E S
The eyes are expressive, somewhat deep-set, brown, alert, sparkling,
mobile. Nose rather long, straight, a little arched and pointed at the
tip, with narrow nostrils. Mouth loose and turned up at
the corners, with thin lips. Chin angular. Neck long and
thin.
Nervy, hence quick walk, rapid speech, voice pleasant
and cheerful. Gentleness and politeness. Impatience
quickly repressed. Tact and gentle mockery. Initiative.
Calm in love. Great mental activity. Intellect lively,
perspicacious, cunning, penetrating. Lies easily. Clever
at getting out of a scrape. Natural eloquence and quick assimilation.
Independence.
J u p ite r ia n T y p e .—Tissues in fleshy masses. Impression of brilliant
health. Disposition to plethora, to obesity. The face goes into a
trapeze, the small base of which is on the chin. Thick-set. The
Jupiterian grows fat into thickness, the lunarian in roundness; the
Venusian is sometimes chubby, but never fat. Solarians,
Martians, Mcrcurians and Saturnians never grow fat.
The Jupiterian has a well proportioned skull, two
bumps in front, the eyes large, fine, smiling, the nose
medium, fleshy, the mouth closed and rather large, the
lips crimson, the chin round and dimpled. He goes bald
early. Face open. Voice serious and pleasant.
ile has a sane, judicial, benevolent mind ; he laughs
easily, is sociable, optimistic. He is a moralist and voluptuous, at the
same time moderate, earnest, upright, observes laws and customs,
rather bourgeois in one word, courteous towards women, devoted to his
friends, philanthropic, family man. He likes the pleasures of the table,
meetings, chairmanships, honours, etc.
V e n u sia n T y p e .— I lls features are sinuous, not round as in the
lunar type, but like segments of an ellipse ; hence his flesh is divided
into rounded chubby masses, with dimples. Pink complexion on
white ground. The face goes into a rounded oval. The
forehead is fine, smooth, the eyebrows short, the eye clear,
almost flush with the head, with long lashes, soft and
voluptuous glance. Nose straight, elegant. Mouth charm
ingly drawn. The bones of the face arc nowhere seen.
Hips broad and prominent. Walk easy, almost dancing,
lascivious. Skin fine.
The Jupiterian makes for social success. The Venusian
irradiates by his personal magnetism, his charm. He is communicative,
amiable, gentle, sensitive, affectionate, caressing, often prodigal, never
envious. He sees everything rosy. He is inconstant in love, likes luxury,
prefers glitter to solidity. He often has talent, rarely genius.
P H Y S I O G N O M O N Y 141
S a tu r n ia n T y p e .—Features rough, irregular, with acute angles.
Prominent bones. The face goes into a long drawn rectangle in height.
The forehead trapezoid opposite to the Jupiterian. Glance severe,
concentrated, piercing. Nose large, bony, prominent,
arched, thin at the tip. Mouth narrow and thin. Cheek
bones bony. Shoulders narrow. Back bent. Hips
straight. Thin with large bones, big hands and feet.
Skin brown, dry. Often the figure is tall, the walk slow.
He is serious, stern, cold, solemn, with slow but
firm thought, slow to speak, good memory. He is
insincere, persevering, clever, resolute, independent, but
distinguished, patient, inquisitive, solitary, pessimistic,
systematic, defiant, vindictive. He loves few but thoroughly,
enthusiasm. All great thinkers are under this influence.
E a r th y T y p e .—This one is but an outline. He is
mediocre, materialistic, with face square and angular,
thick eyebrows, horizontal above hard eyes. Nose wide,
mouth tight with pronounced maxillaries, complexion
earthy, voice harsh. He is massive, careless of conven
tions, awkward, loves the soil, works hard, does not give
himself away, has solid common-sense, is vulgar in his
tastes. Yet there are earthy types who are artists, but
without go, scholars but experimenters.
methodical,
Without
Let us try a rapid conclusion.
It has been observed, and we repeat it-W hichever method of
deduction may be used, thanks to the traditional horoscopic scheme
more or less defined by astronomic mathematics, thanks to morphological
physiognomony more or less defined by planetary typological observa
tion, thanks even to onomanev made more or less subtle by kablmlistic
methods, it is possible to divide persons into classes, and nothing is
more interesting than to study their signs-manual. But the sign-
manual is never simple. Hence its study becomes more difficult, but
yields also a greater intellectual pleasure.
We must therefore beware of rash judgments. We must also
remember, and this constitutes a sure advance on Tradition, that a
celestial influence of whatsoever kind is in itself neither good nor evil ;
it depends on whether or not it harmonises with others. Thus the
influence of Saturn, so greatly dreaded, has produced men of high
qualities when it has been, not corrected, but supported in a beneficial
sense by another. The influence of Saturn is an influence of co n cen tra
tio n . Well then, let it be found only in the upper part of the face,
fertilising the intellect, whilst the middle is influenced by Venus and
the lower part by Mercury, and we shall have a high abstract intellect,
'with taste for the arts, in particular music, and also a resisting and
nervy active type, easily adaptable, for instance a composer of scholarly
rhythm who, in spite of the difficulties of his life, will triumph over
obstacles and become famous.
We have also seen that fortunate harmonies have been observed
between influences which by themselves would be less fortunate. Thus
Moon and Jupiter in harmony may lead to fortune, although the
selenian influence induces carelessness; Mars properly united to
Mercury makes a good business man, etc. On the other hand, if
nothing tempers a bad influence of Mars and Sun, this will produce
violent despotism, and in the case of Venus in a bad position with
the Moon, the result may be the most complete amorahty leading to
salaciousncss, even to proxenetism.
And in the same way the different parts of the body rive information
as to the modality of action and of thought. Thus the solar face suggests
a clear and rapid thought which becomes soft and subjective in a lunar
face, methodical in a Jupiterian, deep and slow in a Saturnian. Thus
also the solar mouth shows a cultivated sensuality which becomes
inordinate in a person with a selenian mouth, intense but sane with the
Martian mouth, inquisitive with the Mercurian, voluptuous with the
Venusian, animal with the earthy mouth, etc.
In short, when we have thoroughly saturated ourselves with the
nature of each astral influence, we snail easily be able to find its result
in each particular case.
VIII
Psycho-Physics
I t will not be surprising that some great thinkers, by means of
modernising tradition, and bringing into the light the old divinatory
arts, should have tried to make the practice of Typology absolutely
scientific, adapting it to various uses. Just as M. Chouasnard has
tried to rid Astrology of the ancient clichis, just as M. Rem, as we shall
see presently, has done the same for Chiromancy, so Typology has been
transformed in the hands of M. Louis Gastin, and has definitely become
Psycho-Physics, haring its Journal and its Institute.
All Science is vain, says M. Gastin in his programme of action,
which has as its aim merely the amelioration of life. The science of
the Soul must become the* subject of studies which are absolutely
objective, precise, utilitarian. And he invented the psycho-diagnosis,
which is for the individual the synthetic label of lus temperament,
his faculties, his abilities. We have ourselves above referred to the
importance of a psycho-predictive portrait. The two might supplement
each other.
142 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
143
P H Y S I O G N O M O N Y
B ut M. Gastin remains on a ground bare of all occultism, although
he does not in any way deny intuition, psychic phenomena, or certain
of the data of the Kabbala which we shall study later on, or of Astrology
which we reviewed some time ago. He even wants to start, and it
will have been started by the time this book is published, a Laboratory
of Psycho-Physics, where diagnosticians trained in his school will
draw up tables which will be used for orientation and professional
selection, the choice of vocation in the child, matrimonial harmony,
prison reform, moral orthopaedics, mental hygiene, pedagogy, etc.
The following is an outline of the chief problem solved by M. Gastin,
that of the temperaments.
His doctrine is earlier than the books of M. Jagot. He worked a t
it for a long time with the late Albert Jounet. We And it summed up
in a review of High Sciences which was then called The Sphinx (1922),
but republished works which had appeared previously.
This doctrine is connected with Hermetism and in part derives
from Tradition; th a t is why it has a place in this Encyclopaedia.
After studying as a m atter of fact the symbol of the Sphinx and that
of the Cross, M. Gastin comes to the following conclusion:
The Sphinx with the body of a bull, the claws and tail of a lion,
the wings of an eagle and the head of an angel, is the expression of
the human quaternary, and its correspondences are as follows:—
Ox .. .. Instinctive.. Lymphatic.. Nutritive.. Lymph .. Chest
Lion .. .. Anaemic.... Sanguine.. Respiratory Blood .. .. Head
Eagle .. Intellectual.. Nervy .... Mental .... Nerve power Body
Angel.. . . Will . . . . Bilious . . . . Muscular. . M e n ta l e n e r g y
Which means th at if every being at bottom has instincts, feelings,
thoughts and will, yet there is in each case a co-efficient of these elements
and it is the difference between these co-efficients which denotes,
the difference between temperaments. For instance the lymphatic
temperament is more favourable for the development of instincts, the
sanguine for the passions, the nervous for ideas, the bilious for mental
energy.
Tne Cross too is a symbol of the quaternary, but from another point
of view which is summed up in the following table :—
Passive Cold (—)
D b y
Spiritual World
Earth Fire
Nervous Bilious
Lymphatic Sanguine
Water Air
Material World
Mo is t
(+) Active Hot
144
This table contains the following indications:—
1. The binary—spiritual (above) and material (below);
2. The lour temperaments in pairs;
3. The passive polarity at the left and the active polarity at the right;
4. The relation between the ancient four elements (elementary qualities
of matter) grouping themselves in dry and moist, in hot and cold.
Thus we get the table of temperaments :—
N. Nervous. Dry. Cold. Earth.
B. Bilious. Dry. Hot. Fire.
S. Sanguine. Moist. Hct. Air.
L. Lymphatic. Moist. Cold. Water.
And even a table of the evolution of the great races :—
N. Yellow race.
B. Blaok race.
8. Bed race.
L. White race.
Below appear the details of the physical, physiological and psycholo
gical characteristics in three tables, in which the symbols of the sphinx
and of the cross are combined.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
1. T a b l e o f P h y s i c a l Ch a b a c t e r i s t i c s
Spir it u a l Wo bl d
Body—thin and dry, delicate akin.
Note—convex, pointed tip.
Lifte—thin, drooping comen.
Chin—pointed and receding.
Part of head predominant—Posterio-superior
(brain).
Hand—cold and dry, bony.
Fingers—long, smooth ana thin—pointed tips.
Lint* ofthe hand—fine and thin, very numer
ous.
Thin and angular, flesh firm and dry.
Convex, rounded tip.
Thin, tight and straight.
Strong and projecting.
Anterto-superior (forehead).
Dry and hot, hard.
Long,smoothandfat—pointed orrounded tips
Fine and deep—numerous.
Dr y
Eagle N I B Human head
( - ) Cold----------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- Hot (+ )
Ox L I 8 Lion
Hoist
Body—well filled and round, flesh soft.
Nose—concave, round tip.
Lips—thick, pale, soft.
Chin—large and undecided.
Part ofthe headpredominant—Posterio-inferior
(neck).
Hand—moist and cold, soft.
Finger*—short, knotty and fat, thick tips.
Lines ofthehand—white,broad,notnumerous.
Accentuated. Flesh firm.
Concave, pointed tip.
Thick, red and firm.
Square or round.
Anterio-inferior (jaw).
Hot and moist, firm.
Short, knotty and thin, square tips.
Bed and deep, not numerous.
Ma t e r ia l Wo r l d
145
P H Y 8 I 0 G N 0 M 0 N Y
2. T a b l e o f P h y s i o l o g i c a l Ch a r a c t e r i s t i c s .
Spir it u a l Wo r l d
Complexion—pale, s o m e w h a t y e l l o w .
Most developed seme—sight and hearing.
Predispositions to illnesses—nervous affec
tions. Neuralgia.
Chief need-mental exercises. Rest of nerves.
Writing—quick, pointed, sloping.
Movements—quick, short.
Step—quick, shortsteps.
8peech—quick,abrupt.
Dr y
Mat, dusky, almost b l a c k .
Touch.
Liver, kidneys, bowels, neurosis.
Muscular exercises, general aotivity.
Firm, equal, upright,
Firm, precise, large.
Firm, slow, big steps.
Authoritative,laboured.
( - ) Cold.
Eagle.
Ox!
N I B
L | 8
Moist
Human head
Lion
Hot (+ )
Complexion—pale and w h it e .
Most developed sense—taste.
Predisposition to illnesses—affections of the
glands, catarrhs.
Chtefneed—food.
Writing—soft, big, rounded.
MovemenJs—slow and soft, careless.
Walt—slow, short steps.
Speech—soft, qqiet, careless.
Coloured, almost b b d .
Smell.
Inflammations, hemorrhages, rheumatism.
Air.
Quick, not orderly.
Quick, alert.
Quick, big steps.
Quick, assured.
Ma t e r ia l Wo r l d .
3. T a b l e o f P s y c h o l o g i c a l Ch a r a c t e r i s t i c s
Ma t e r ia l Wo r l d
Morol Faculties—easily impressed. Versatile.
Character, irritable. Pessimism. Imagina
tive exaggeration. Envy. Quiet bad
temper.
Intellectual faculties—quick understanding.
Creative imagination. Love of detail and
physical work.
Eagle. N
(—) Cold---------------------------------------------
Ox L
Great force of character. Strong will, author
ity, ambition. Susceptibility. Quick temper.
Despotism and pride.
Quick worker. Quick of decision and com
mand. Positivism. Disdain of detail.
Rational thought.
Dry.
| B Human head.
-------------------------------------------------Hot (+ )
| S Lion.
Moist.
Moral Faculties—calm thoughtful character.
Passive strength. Indifference. Greediness
and laziness.
Intellectual Faculties—methodical and slow
worker. Passive mind. Practicalpositivism.
Affection and mobility. Benevolence.
Optimism. Passionate tendencies. Quick
temper and liar.
Quick and absorbing work. Activity bodily
rather than mental
Spir it u a l Wo r l d .
Of course the majority of temperaments result from combinations
of these elements L.S.N.B. according to the one which predominates.
Thus we obtain a table of this kind:—L.S.N.B., L.B.S.N., S.L.N.B.,
S.B.L.N., B.N.S.L., B.L.S.N., etc., altogether 21 types.
146
But, observes Mr. Gastin, the quaternary classification is not carried
out in practice. The binary is generally' considered sufficient. For
instance:—
Two intellectual types, N.B. and B.N., the one more passive, the
other more active.
Two corporal types, the active S,L. and the passive L.S.
Two active types, B.S. and S.B., two passive, N.L. and L.N., two
subjective and two objective.
Then he gives examples of binary types studied with care, which
we reproduce so as to clarify this marvellous investigation.
In t e l l e c t u a l T y p e s
N.B.—Hieroglyphically, it is the Eagle which draws M an towards
the summit. Passive mentality, imagination predominates. The
type of the ‘
pessimist more or less self-wuled. Complexion dark, black
on yellow ground.
B.N.—M an has tamed the Eagle. Mental energy dominates
imagination and uses it for the purpose of its ambition. The Proud
type. Complexion darker still, yellow on a ground almost black.
Co r p o r a l T y p e s
S.L.—Hieroglyphically, the Lion draws the Ox. Work, whilst
remaining methodical, becomes more active. The type of the calm
optimist. The complexion is light, but coloured, white on red ground.
The contact of the hand is firm and moist.
L.S.—The Ox holds the Lion back. (Under the ardent influence
of the Sanguine, the Lymphatic wakes up sensual). The complexion
is lighter still, a little red on a white ground. The contact of the hand,
still moist, is softer and colder.
A c t i v e T y p e s
B.S.—The Human Head leads the Lion. The w ill shows itself
more benevolent, but at the same time more or less mobile. The active
or enterprising self-willed type. Almost absolute independence. The
complexion is copper-coloured, red on dark ground. The contact of
the nand is warm and hard.
S.B.—The Lion draws the Afon along. Action dominates thought.
Type of the Optimist conscious of his physical and psychical superiority.
Benevolence and amiability are protecting, and a t the same time sus
ceptible. The complexion is colourful—dark on red ground.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
147
P H Y 8 I 0 G N 0 M 0 N Y
P a s s i v e T y p e s
N.L.—I t is the Eagle which tries to draw the Ox along. Idealism
more or less practical and bourgeois. Intuition is calm and rather
objective. Type of the calm or melancholy pessimist. The hand is
cold and bony. The complexion is pale, white on yellow ground.
L.N.—The Ox holds the Eagle back. Reflection and method temper
and regulate Imagination. Type of the contemplative. Hand cold
and soft. The complexion is paler still, milky. More or less yellow
on white ground.
O b j e c t i v e T y p e s
B.L.—The Human Head leading the Ox. Calm and positive despotism.
Quietly ambitious type, in whom will predominates; Iron hand in a
velvet glove. The hand is hard and rather cold. Complexion white
on dark ground.
L.B.—The Ox leading the M an. Hidden ambition, stubborn work.
Calmly self-willed or persevering type. The contact of the hand is
cold and rather soft. The complexion Ls lighter than in the B.L.—
dark on white ground.
S u b j e c t i v e T y p e s
N.B.—Hicroglyphically, it is the Eagle who tries to fly away, but
the Lion holds hirn fast, to the earth. Idealism but little realised.
Actively pessimistic type in whom the intuition of the nervous type shews
itself—the misunderstood inventor. A good artist who produces on
condition th at he can go on quickly. Hand bony and warm. Com
plexion red on yellow ground.
B.N.—The Lion dominates the Eagle. Feelings always excessive.
He is passionate. Actively and hardened pessimist. The hand is warm
and dry. The complexion is yellow on red ground.
We have said enough to make the method of Mr. Gastin under
standable. B ut onlv attendance at his Institute can give complete
information on Psycho-Physics, a dawning science of marvellous social
interest.
CHAPTER m
Ch ir o m a n c y
I
Ge n e r a l
We shall in the one word Chiromancy include chirognomony, invented
by Captain d’Arpentigny, which is morphological physiognomony
applied to the hand (therefore dealing only with its outward shape),
chtrology, expression preferred by Mr. Rem and the “ scientifics ”
because it excludes all idea of occultism, and finally chiromancy properly
so-called, the good old chiromancy which studies in the hand the
astral sign-manual, in which Desbarolles believed, th at great master
of an art which it is possible to modernise without depreciating its
ancestors. And we shall keep this word sacred, just because it takes
into account occultism without the enlivening of which the science of
the hand appears to us incomplete.
The hand is the movement; the movement is the word ; the word
is the soul; the soul is man. Let us sum up the whole in these words:
the soul of man is in his hand. Chiromancy is the a rt of divining the
soul of a person and his fate by examining his hand.
Chiromancy corroborates the astrological and the physiognomonic
data. I t is easy to see the interest of this triple consultation, each
one being like a physician who gives his opinion. An average is struck
from these which has a great likelihood of being a precious and definite
information from which by deduction it is possible to form a view as
to the future of the person interested.
I t always remains understood that free mill is able to modify the
natural inclination written in the horoscope, in the features of the face,
in the lines of the hand.
But, it will be asked, have these lines really any evidential value.
And first of all are they not simply formed by manual work ? In no
way, seeing that in the working classes, where they ought to be very
marked, they are but slight, and much less marked than in people who
lead a more intense intellectual life. Further, they exist in a young
child, even in a new bom baby who has hardly had time to make many
CHI ROMANCY 149
movements. Further yet, paralysis leads to their disappearance.1
Therefore let us say it firm ly:—The lines of the hand correspond tothe
vitality of the individual. We shall see presently th a t they also corres
pond to his temperament and its consequences.
Desbarolles, whom we have just mentioned, with the conscience
of a great honest man and his indubitable genius of perspicacity studied
for many long years the omem presented by these lines.
He suggests a_scientific < . he phenomenon by the animal
electricity which is contained in the corpuscles discovered by Pacini
which are found in every hand, especially in the palm, the mounts
and the tips of the fingers. These reservoirs, he thinks, endow us
with an extraordinary sensitiveness which remains in relation with
the brain, with all the other senses, with the whole organism. And
this would explain why every organic activity is reflected in the hand,
and enables us to read in it our physical and mental constitution.
Desbarolles goes farther. He claimed to be able to foretell the
illnesses with m uch the client was threatened, because already he
saw their germ. . . .* And why not ? W hy in the same way should
not' an acute observer be able to foresee, marked in the lines of the
palm, the dangerous periods in an existence ?
Thus Chiromancy would be a science more exact even than Physiogno-
mony and than Graphology which anyone sharp enough can lead
astray by disguising his handwriting or by looking stem.
Madame de Thebes, according to Desbarolles, claimed (in 1917)
that Chiromancy is in fact a science which has its definite settled and
verifiable laws. She wished th at a Learned Society should be formed
for its close study and to accumulate for this purpose properly checked
documents. She denied th at there was anything in it which* belonged
to the Kabbala or to Magic. I t is pure Physiology I she would exclaim,
just as anthropology or ethnology. Neither does it in any way, as
we have said, fetter our liberty. There is no fatality because there
are signs of character and of fate. The will remains entire. Besides,
if it is in the left hand th at fate is especially written, it is in the right
hand th at we find possibilities of modifying it.
Bom from the civilisations of India and of Egypt, and nursed
jointly with Chaldean Astrology, Chiromancy fell into discredit when
bunglers and charlatans exploited it without sufficient study and
with the sole desire of making money. I t is but half a century ago
th at Desbarolles and d’Arpentigny rescued it from forgetfulness and took
it away from the quacks of Divination.
1 At death the lines disappear little by little, beginning with the slightest.
* See on this point farther on the note relating to Hr. Georges Mucheiy.
150
The hand must be looked upon as a sort of pentacle, as a symbol
which Nature gives us to decipher. But we must not seek for absolute
certainties in it. The obstacle to the spread of Chiromancy lies in the
lack of confidence of many, and also in the demands of those who want
to know their to-morrows with a precision and with details such as
on other subjects they do not ask for a hundredth part from an expert,
for instance from a meteorologist or from their doctor!
Let us also remember that the lines of the hand traced a t birth
under the influence of the stars, are modified as we get older (and not
by chance) as the result of changes which take place in our existence
or of acts of will by which we have thwarted our fate. Chiromancy
thus serves to prove free-will when reasoning fails 1
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
We shall see later th at we must study not merely the lines of the
hand to “ make them speak,” but also its shape and its movements.
A hand meticulously cared for may for instance belong to a vulgar
soul which reveals itself by movements resembling it, whilst a coarser
and less clear hand may by its noble and frank movements prove that
work may injure it without touching (far from it 1) the uprightness of
him who uses it to earn his bread. Look at an honest labourer and at
a courtesan of low degree. The latter from professional necessity,
and because she has no more urgent task, will have hands “ well made,”
soft, very clean, adorned with carmined nails ; the hands of the former
will be calloused, heavy, the nails still earthy. And yet what a moral
difference 1 The chiromancer will not make a mistake.
» » » • • •
The Ancients found in the hand the seven reservoirs of astral in
fluence (Desbarolles likened them to a magnetic phenomenon) corres
ponding to the types of the seven planets which they knew. Thus
they had observed that in the Venusians the root of the thum b was
always strong and lined; the Jupiterian had the same sign a t the
base of the first finger, and so on as to these celestial influences; they
were all revealed at the base of the fingers by a small fleshy protuberance
(or if it be absent, by a lined depression). These protuberances are
called the mounts (mount of Venus, of Jupiter, etc.).
The Ancients had likewise discovered th at the fundamental lines
of the hand correspond to the construction of our being. I t is by
numerous and checked observations and notes—how many thousands
during so many centuries 1
—that they have settled—and we carry
on their tradition—the correspondence which thus exists between the
qualities and abilities of the individual on the one hand, and on the
other hand the length, the depth, the colour, the tracing of the lines
of the hand.
CHI ROMANCY 151
Therefore we shall be careful in Chiromancy to notice the size of
the hand, its general colour, its shape, its temperature, its mounts,
its lines and their direction, their strength and their colour, the length
and shape of the fingers, the appearance of the nails and the hair, the
grain o f the skin, and finally particular signs such as squares, circles,
stars, dots, crosses, spots, etc., etc.
All these elements are useful. And if, after having applied them,
we wish to translate them astrologically, we can with Mr. Jagot classify
them in the following manner which will give us an initial typological
indication:—
Solar hand.‘—Elegant, well-proportioned, slightly lemon in colour.
Martian hand:—Massive, fleshy, red.
Sdenian (or lunar) hand:—Sort with rounded fingers.
Mercurianhand:—Thin, slender, with pointed fingets.
Venusianhand:—Chubby, pinkonwhiteground,snort, withconicalfingers.
Jupiterian hand:—
Strong, well covered,
I t is possible to appreciate this without the knowledge of the persona
observed, and thus to Know them a little, without having spoken to
them, without having studied their hands, and joining this knowledge
Physics) here is the meaning which Mr.
Louis Gastin attaches to the hand.
His chirological method will easily be
seen from it.
U
Outward shape and appearance o f the Hand
to th at which is given by their faces, to obtain some support for the
distrust or the sympathy with which we enter into relations with them.
And here, as farther on, for the sake of dearness and the ease of
study, we shall proceed by explanatory tables:—
152 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
A.
Well proportioned hand:—General poise in (he individual.
Hand too short:—Tendency to bad character.
Hand too long:—Interfering mind, maniacal.
Woman’s hand very narrow:—Difficult confinements.
Hand which, at the end of the outstretched arm, touches the knee:— Bad
character, fighter, self-willed.
Hand large in comparison with the body:—Smartness, guile.
Hand somewhatlongwithshortjotfingers:—Neglect, laziness, lightheadedness.
Handfleshy and wot articulated:—Long life.
Hand hollowand badly articulated:—Short life.
Hand long, thin, narrow:—Dominative, egotism, unsociability.
Hand short andthin:—Avarice, tendency to gossip.
Handfat and chubby:—Choice people (if in addition it is well shaped).
Hand badly shaped, twisted:—Bizarre people.
Handbtdmng:—Luck, success even without great effort, especially in finance.
Hand soft, pale and swarthy:—Perfidy.
H and cold, smooth, im passive:—Egotism, lack of sensitiveness.
Hand while, even not reddening in the air: Impenetrability, relentlessness.
Hand supple, a little wrinkled:—Goodness, benevolence, amenity.
Hand hardand wrinkled:—Fighting character.
B.—T h e F in g e r s ,
Fingers well proportioned:—Good character.
Fingers smalland thin:—Tendency to eccentricity, to mania.
Fingers well apart:—Egotism, intellect, self-confidence.
Fingers set close together:—Discretion, reasoning power.
Fingersbentbacktowardsthebackofthehand:—Smartness, guile.
Fingers separated at the baseand meetingat thetop:—Omen of misery.
Fingers closetogetherat thebase:—Economy, discretion.
Thumbleaning towards the otherfingers:—Cynicism, avarice.
Thumbhabituallyenclosedinthehand:—Nullity of intellect, lack of will-power.
Firstfinger leaning towards the thumb:—Egoistical ambition.
Ringfingerlongerthanfirstfinger:—Intellectual good luck, material bad luck.
Firstfinger longerthan ringfinger:—Material success, love of pleasure.
Middlefinger leaningtowardsfirstfinger:—Epicurean philosophy.
Middlefinger leaning towards ringfinger:—Love of advertising, love of arts.
Ringfinger leaningtowards littlefinger:—Art taking counsel from science.
Ringfinger equal or almost to middlefinger:—Love of gambling, of adventure.
C H I R O M A N C Y
C.—Th e Na il s . 1
153
Nails naturallypink:—
Constancy, firm
ness.
Nails twisted, obtuse:—
Independence, rapacity.
Nailsprinted at the end ofthtnfingers:—
W
eaklnngs.
Nails dark andlong:—
Dangerouspeople.
Nails short:—
Love offightinganaquibbling,irony.
Nails short and hard:—
Bad temper, longlife.
Nails small, coveredwithflesh—
sensuality.
NaUs spotted with white:—
Nervousness, happiness.
Nails spotted with Hack:—
Signof badluck.
Nails soft:—
W
eakness, lack of will-power.
Nails breaking:—
W
eakhealth.
Nails hardandbent back:—
Ambition, spite, passionif theyarepointed.
Nails pointed:—
Imagination, laziness, love ofthearts.
Nails conical:—
Feeling for beauty, goodness, truth.
Nailsfiat, broad, a little curvedat theend:—
Guile, dissimulation.
Nailsgrey, pale andround:—
Dangerousperson.
Nailsbitten:—
Nervousness,irritability,melancholy(maniacalledonichophagy)
Nail oflittlefinger defective:—
W
eakbowels.
Nail ofringfinger wtth quickdeformed:—
Heart weakness.
Nails “watch glass ” shape.-—
Broncho-pulmonary suppurations.s
Nails grooved lengthwise:—
Superabundance of nervous fluid.
Nails long:—
Timidity, reserve, meticulousness.
D.—Co l o u r .®
White and transparent:—Indifferent and soft nature.
White and soft:—Lymphatic nature.
Pink with transparent veins:—Benevolence.
Red:—Sanguine complexion, medium health.
Purplish rea:—Laziness or bad health.
Swarthy withpink tints:—Good health, good character.
Dark, tndined togreenishyellow:—Bad temper, spite.
A hand should be slightly swarthy, with pink tints, and veins
slightly transparent, th a t is a sign of benevolence, of goodness, of good
health (Rem).*
* Are the nails possibly the link between tbe fluids end the flesh t Hall breeds, even with
white skin, for several generations keep the sign of their race in their nails. Balzac says, “ The
line where our flesh ends and the nail begins, contains the inexplicable and invisible mystery
of the constant transformation of our fluids into horn." Are the nails possibly fluid solidified
in the air T
* Observation of Dr. P. Marie.
* Madame Fraya, the neat chiromancer, attaches a particular importance to the colour
of the hand. She goes so far as to assert that this colour is affected by the influence of the
subconscious before anevent, expected or not, takes place which is capable of upsetting destiny.
154 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
E.—
Ha ib .
Hand (of a m
an)witkout hair:—
Effeminate.
Hand normally hairy:—
G
oodcomplexion, goodnature.
Hand hairy on bade, calloused in palm
.*—
Heavy andanimal mind.
Lower part otdy hairy:—
Greatvitality, B
ignofwit.
Too much hair:—
Instability.
Hair scattered:—
Tem
peram
ent lacking order.
Proverb:— V ir pilosus aul libidintis aut fo rtis (a hairy man is
amorous or strong). It is told that Condi having been admitted one
day, or rather one night, to the house of Ninon de Lenclos and not
having given to the famous courtesan sufficient proofs of his amorous
prowess, the lady suddenly took his hand, which was very hairy, and
exclaimed not without an assumed admiration, “ Oh, Monseigneur,
how strong you must be 1”
in
Types of Hands
There are four well defined types of hands, according to whether
they are pointed (that is to say having all the fingers pointed), square,
conical or spatulate. Let us take them one by one.
P ointed hands, that isto saywithpointedfingers. “Pointedfingers,”
says Henri Rem, “offer a conduitfreeandwithoutobstacle, andin this
resemble the magnetised points of lightning conductors; they easily
draw in and emit fluid, consequently absorb spontaneouslysurrounding
ideas and emit them in the same manner. Hence the inspirations,
the illuminations, the inventions which flow from pointed fingers and
make dreamers, poets and inventors.”
To the pointed fingers therefore belong intuitions, arts, ideas,
theories, inventions. The pointed hand is the hand of the imaginative,
the psychist, the idealist, the aristocrat (or rather the artistocrat, as
Gerard de Lacaze-Duthiers would say), the hand of the elect. But
alas 1 it is not well fitted for the battle of life, for reasoning, for
materiality, for effort. Therefore it is also sometimes the hand of
laziness, of impulsiveness, of malformation, of exuberance, the hand
of luxury, of joy, of charm. It is the hand of the great lovers, the
pretty mistresses, the demi-mondaines.
Thesmoothpointedhandbelongstothepoet,theartist, theinventor.
If it has philosophical knots (see later), there will be conflict between
inspiration and calculation. If material knots are added to it, positive
qualities will correct exaggerated idealism.
C H I R O M A N C Y
TYPES OF HANDS
155
Henri Rem quotes as examples of the jpointed hand:—In politics
Robespierre; in painting Raphael, Perugmo, Correggio, Antonia de
la Gandara and most of the imaginative painters; in literature Milton,
Shakespeare, Schiller, Goethe, Chateaubriand, Musset, the ciderDumas,
George Sand.
156
Victor Hugo had at first pointed and smooth fingers. Later on
they became conical and knotty, the philosophical knot having come
up little by little, and the knot of material order having become
developed. Alterations of this kind are not rare; but never in the
opposite way will knotted fingers be seen to become smooth, nor
spatulate fingers become pointed.
Square harm.—It has the joint with the nail ending in a square by a
clear cut. It indicates poise in the character, the taste for meditation,
ideas perhaps bourgeois, but in any case firm, clear, well settled. The
uncompromising, the intolerant especially have the middle finger very
square. The others are at least good philosophers, methodical, cool,
thinking and calculating with common sense, executing with order,
energy,loving justice, not apt to initiative (the heritage of the pointed
finger) but precise, prudent, disciplined, logical in thought, reasoning,
deductive. The hand of reason, of duty and of command.
These qualities are strengthened if the fingers have knots at the
articulation ofthe joints. Theseknots, whilein fact not verynecessary
to the square finger, sign ofsolid judgment, are the more necessary to
the pointed finger whose defects they minimise.
Ifby an excess ofmalformationthe square fingerattains the shape of
a ball, a tendency to murder may be feared.
In Francemoresquarehandsthanspatulate handshave beennoticed,
“ that is to say more brains organised for the theory of science than
men capable to apply it.*' The Germans, more able in carrying out,
have an abundance of spatulate hands.
Some celebrities with square hands:—
In Politics:—Louis XIV, Vauban, Turenne, Guizot, Falli&res, CHmenceau.
In Literature:—Boileau, Voltaire, the younger Dumas, Paul Hervieu.
In Art:—Holbein, Albert Diirer, Le Poussin, Corot, Rodin.
In theTheatre:—Frederic Lemaftre, Rachel, Adelina Patti, Sarah Bernhardt,
Got, Leloir, Emma Calvi, Andrle M6gard, Marthe Mellot.
Conical hand.—Thehandofreasonandofintuition,the philosophical
handp a r excellence. It is partly the square, partly the pointed nand,
therefore almost ideal. It is seen in most people of talent if not of
genius. It is the hand of him who can understand everything, and
love everything, who can acknowledge his errors, be benevolent,
friendly, indulgent, the friend of peace and harmony, of order and
comfort.
The hand of Moligre, La Fontaine, Rousseau, Lamartine, Augier,
Mcndgs, Sully-Prudhomme, Berthelot, Paul Deschanel, HoraceVemet,
Dclaroche, Meissonnier, Diaz, Ggrdmc, the brothers Coquelin, Dgjazet,
Rgjane, Berthe Bady, Jane Granier, Arlette Dorggre, Duse, Simone,
Robinne, Segond-Weber, Cgcile Sore], Loie Fuller, etc.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
C HI ROMANCY 157
Spatulate hand.—Spatula shaped fingers, with the nail joint almost
flat (exception must be made in the case of deformation owing to the
use of tools).
' The hand ofinstinct, of feelings but little restrained, of the material
mind, of revolt (most revolutionaries have these finger signs).
Spatulate fingers belong to the active man who acts beforethinking,
who is too self-confident, and who is often ruined by his pride.
Those with spatulate fingers are fond of the open air, of daring, of
hunting, of travelling, of colonisation, of sailing, or manual work.
They dislike bureaucracy, sedentary occupations, are not much
inclined to art and elegance, are gourmand rather than gourmet,
artisans rather than artists, lovers of liberty.
A very spatulate thumb indicates quick decision ; if the first finger
—need for domination, for command; if the middle, love of culture,
of construction, in one word of material creation. If the ring finger,
it indicates a type meticulous, not very inventive, imitative.
The spatulate hand is resolute rather than resigned. It is often
found in Brittany, in the North.
A hard and smooth spatulate hand understands business, is afraid
of nothing. If soft, it loses the love of work, but retains that of action
(journeys, feasts, walks, etc). On the other hand the influence of the
knots (which we shall go into later) may modify it.
Spatulate hands were those of Napoleon III, Lamennais, Fernand
Labori, Rubens, Rembrandt, Bouguereau, Andr£ Antoine.
M ixed H and and E lem entary H and.—As will be supposed, there
are few hands which can be completely classified into the above pure
types. Many are mixed, having fingers of varying kinds, which will
in that case keep their particular meaning.
As to the elementary hand, it recalls the earthy planetary type of
which we have spoken. It also is earthy and is often found in the
country. The fingers are thick, massive, it is the hand of the peasant,
instinctive, of the rudimentary being.
Thishandabounds in Lapland. It is the helpless hand of the bom
slave.
The classification of the hand is not always the same with different
chirologists, although in the end they all obtain the same results. By
way of example, here is the method adopted by Julien Ledercq in his
book, The Character and the H and (published by Juven):—
We divide, he says, into four classes the hands of people of which
we have collected the picture:—1
1. Intellectual hands. 2. Brilliant hands.
3. Passionate hands. 4. Practical hands.
If we had to draw up a system, we should have to add at least two
more classes:—
168 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
6. Vulgar hands.
6. Insignificant hands.
This division is not theoretical. The method is of the simplest.
I confine myselfto examiningthe documentswhichI have in my hands,
and I compare them by taking into account nothing but the sketches
which I have before my eyes. And thus I make my groups. Chance
will have it that I find four; the exact remembrancewhich I have of
other hands enables me to complete my division.
There remains but one thing to be done—put a label on each group.
Here the character, more or less known beforehand, of the personalities
in question intervenes together with the chirognomic information
gained, and I try to find a common plane, as extensive as possible, on
which these personalities may meet.
The description of the various hands and the definition of the
corresponding characteristics must be hinted at rather than definite.
The irdeUeclual hand is fleshy and half soft, often bony and dry,
but neversoft orfat. Thefingersarestrong without beingthick at the
root, and seem rather long. Their shape is drawn out without being
either slim or thin, this being the shape common to this class. It is
never short, or even square. Never small, but large or medium. Its
parts are balanced, nonepredominant. Thebottom ofthe hand, which
is larger, would not, however, be noticed in relation to the top.
Tne corresponding intellectual character is governed by principles
and ideas. It is patient andpersevering in its wavs. It proceeds after
ripe reflection. Not at all or only slightly supple, not be influenced.
Methodical and constant work.
The brilliant hand is medium or small, never large. The palm is
fleshy without being hard, half soft, never bony or dry. This palm
is apparently stronger than the fingers which are loose, never thick,
ratherlong. Thelowerpart ofthis hand, especially towards the mount
of Venus, is apt to attract attention. In any case neither thick nor
thin. Not square, neither short. It is pretty.
The brilliant character is ruled by appearances. It is sociable and
malleable. Its instability preserves it from being absorbed. Anxious
to attract attention, it prefers rapid methods, schemes and systems
being foreign to it; it is naturally clever and improvises its actions.
It proceeds by intuition. Suppleness, assimilation, varied abilities.
Work easy but inconstant.
Thepassionate hand is fleshy, resisting, hard, sometimes dry, always
strong. The fingers are thick and rather short. It is small, medium
or large. If small it seems round; if large it is apt to be vulgar. It
never looks longish. The palm is appreciably broader at the bottom
than below the fingers.
The passionate character is believing, powerful, active, inspired. It
proceeds by a feeling for things and produced by a natural abundance.
Capacity for work. Keen, enthusiastic, absorbed worker.
The practical hand has a family likeness to the preceding. It is
square, but like the passionate hand, it is fleshy, often fat. The palm
does not appear less broad below the fingers than at the bottom. It is
found in all sizes, and when too large it is coarse.
The>
practical character is governed by material needs and by useful
ness. It proceeds by reason, produces by interest, obeys calculations,
advances with orderliness. It is foreseeing, disdains dreams, repulses
illusions. Master of himself, he conforms to circumstances, ana is a
fighter. Work in proportion to his needs, considerable if necessary.
Taste for good living and calm enjoyment.
The vulgar hand, of which I could not show an example without
hurtingsomeone, is strikingby its size andby a suggestionofmalforma
tion. it is generally hard and thick. It corresponds to simple tastes.
The insignificant hand is too small ortoo large, verynarrow,without
resistance, without special features, very soft, with weak bones.
The majority of hands do not belong to a definite type, but it is
very rarely impossible to say with some certainty which type prevails.
C H I R O M A N C Y 159
By way of example, here are two “ famous ” hands analysed by
J. Leclercq:—
The hand o f Father D idon :—The morehandsI see, the more it seems
to methat they modify my opinions ofcharacters inthe sense ofgreater
truth.
I was inclined to believe, some years ago, that Father Didon was
a manentirely passionate, vehement, uncontrollable. Whata mistake !
He is a brilliant man with a flash of passion. At least that is the view
which his hand gave me of him the day when I was allowed to take a
photograph of it.
His hand is too small to be a passionate hand, and it is also too
pretty. Its relief is prominent and without hardness. The somewhat
strong fingers and the prominent places of Venus, Mars and the Moon
are its passionate parts.
The little fingeris independent, and the thumb, without being long,
has power. The will is powerful, without however being so to excess.
The fingers are round, almost square—order.
Therefore, if I am to believe this hand, Father Didon adds to his
freedom of manner, a greater wish to please than to strike, a quick
160
and assimilable mind, an improvised judgment, a clear intellect and
great charm. Addto these gifts colourand intensity.
Self-confidence, indestructible, also belongs to him.
Brilliant men, when they have some degree of passion and are very
independent, are not protected, but rather protectors.
In the true passionate character there is always some amount of
confusion, of obscurity, but the feelings are deep and the beliefs more
solid. The thought of the passionate is slow, it has fetters to break
through and roads to force.
The thought is strongly bound to the organism and frees itself with
difficulty. In the brilliant type it is like a bubble of air which rises
rapidly fromthe depth ofthe waterto the surface. It is like a strange
element, comingfromoutside, whichrapidlyfindsits wayoutagain.
I do not think that the true passionate has ever been an orator.
Thelatterhastoomuchpresenceofmind,hedoesnotknowdisturbance.
A flash of passion is enough for him. This is the case with Father
Didon.
The hand o f Mounel-Svlly.—The palm is small in comparison
with the fingers. Further, this hand, which has less character than
the others, is prettier. Yetit is trulyapassionatehand, butwithsome
thing, some shade, some trace of brilliancy.
Relief prominent, especially around Venus. Fingers strong, flesh
fairly firm. Little finger strong and thumb thick. The ring finger is
predominant rather than the first finger.
Knowing that this is the hand of an actor, it is possible to say that
we are not dealing here with a supple actor, but one who is vehement,
playing with his personal feelings, compelled to work hard in order
to free hisconsciousness froma ground in whichemotion at first labours
confusedly, who does not assimilate easily, whocan hardly avail himself
of the assistance of others.
A general prejudice is responsible for the belief that the first con
dition of a remarkable talent is facility. This is an error, for it is not
so in the case of basic, personal talents, who depend on themselves for
everything.
• • • • • •
We give now, concerning the classification of the types of hands, an
entirelynewsuggestion ofG.Muchery1whichis veryinteresting because
it leads us back to planetary typology.
There are three types of individuals, says this young and already
famouschiromancer, theIntellectual, the Passionate and the Material.
The Intellectual derives from Saturn (pride), the Sun (envy) and
Mercury (avarice).
* Death, Illnesses, Intellect, Heredity, an shown by the imprint of the hand (published by
Astiale, illustrated, 2 volumes, ono containing plates).
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
ThePassionate derives fromMarswhogives himbadtemper, coming
from the heart and not the brain.
The Material derives from Jupiter (greediness), Venus (voluptuous
ness), the Moon (laziness), Earth (materialism).
(It is obvious that these words with apparently bad meaning must
be taken in a very broad sense).
The long conical hand is solar.
The short conical hand is lunar.
The long round hand is jupiterian.
The short round hand is venusian.
The long square hand is martian.
The short square hand is earthy.
The long spatulate hand is saturnian.
The short spatulate hand is mercurian.
Butpuretypesdonotexist. Andbesidesweareallsolarandearthy:
the Sun and the Earth are there solely in order to add spirituality
or materialism to the other influences.
Thetype Earth is inreality onlya materialcombination ofMarsand
Jupiter.
The type Sun in the same way is but a combination of Saturn and
Mercury with a touch of Venus.
The Sun gives qualities and defects proceeding from the soul.
The Earth gives qualities and defects proceeding from materialism.
Saturn and Mercury give qualities and defects proceeding from the
brain.
Mars gives qualities and defects proceeding from the heart.
Jupiter, Venus and the Moon give qualities and defects proceeding
from the body.
From the point of view of colour:—
Generally the Intellectual is yellow, the Passionate red, the Materialist white.
From whioh we have the following combinations:—
Colour darkyellow—Saturn.
„ t^ttenKue—the^Moon.
„ white-yellow—Venus.
„ white-red—Jupiter.
„ red—Mars.
This typology applies to Physiognomony, including Chiromancy.
On comparing with this the theories of Jagot, Gastin, etc., we find in
fact the same data originally stated by each. On the other hand Mr.
Muchery in the book already mentioned states an astro-chiromantic
theory which is extraordinarily interesting and to which we refer the
reader.
C H I R O M A N C Y 161
162 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
IV
The Palm
Apartfromthequestionoflines,wemustnotneglectthepalm,which
gives information as to the instincts. In animals the bones of the
palm, as amatter offact, constitute so to speak the whole ofthe hand;
hence in man predominance of the palm over the fingers indicates a
preponderance of animalism. The fingers by their delicacy are the
instruments of the soul, the palm is merely the seat of the material,
sanguine life. This is seen at once in a sick person in whom it
becomes burning as the result of fever. Here the pacinic corpuscles
are collected.
A well-coloured, soft, tepid, moist palm indicates youth, good
health, sensitiveness. Dry, thin, it shows roughness of character.
Over 08'6° the heat is excessive, and (apart from a known illness)
this is a sign of weakness of the organism, of bad action of the lungs.
Its warmth is also in relation with the blood. The fact that it is cold
is however not a proof of the absence of passion. Cold hand, warm
heart, says the proverb. And this is not always true either. The
line of heart alone gives information as to this. Moist to excess, to
someextentperspiring,it denotesagreatlymphatic,andalsosensuality.
If fleshy, it shows a taste for material pleasures. If thin, only the
pleasures of the soul are enjoyed. If massive, large, thick and hard
with short fingers, it is on the borders of animalism. If simply firm
and solid, it is a sign of activity, vigour, vitality. A hard nand is
proof of endurance. A soft hand belongs to a temperament of the
same kind. A hollow palm foretells lack of courage, even serious
illness. _A broad palm belongs to the analytical, a long palm to the
synthetical, a mediumpalmto the synoptical, a thin palmto the weak,
a palm bare (or almost) of lines to the fatalist, a flat palm without
mounts to the neutral, an “agitated ” palm, that is to say full oflines,
to the passionate of all kinds.V
V
The Fingers
The palm is the index to the vital forces. The fingers indicate the
intellectual powers. Each of them has its general meaning. Each
of them is moreover divided into threejoin ts, the unions of which are
called knots. The first joint (that of the nail) gives information as
to the spiritual abilities, the second (middle) as to the intellectual
abilities, the third (whichisconnectedwiththe palm)astotheinstincts.
163
Whata fineopportunitythis gave to Occultism, and the three parts
of the body—the head for mentality, the chest for emotion (sensitive
ness), the body for vegetation (nourishment).
We have studied the general shape of the fingers divided into
pointed, conical, square, spatulate. Let us now examine each of them
more in detail, and for the sake ofspeed, in the form of tables.
1. T h e T h u m b
It is the master finger, said
Montaigne. It is the thickest, the
leader of the file of the others, and
can be placed opposite to them. It
sums upourvital force, our will. The
Ancients looked upon it as the very
symbol of man. Cowards had it cut
off. In Sparta, the teachers as a
E
unishment bit the thumbs of their
raypupils. In the Circusit was with
the thumb, turned up or down, that
the Emperorcondemnedor sparedthe
vanquished. The thumb is man,
wrote d’Arpentigny. Idiots have a
short thumb without any corpuscles
at all, as has been demonstrated by
Dupuytren. The new-bom baby, as
vetwithoutwill-power,holdsits thumb
hiddenin itsclosedhand; theepileptic,
who has lost his will-power, does the
same, as also the patient who is
grievouslyill, the paralytic, the dying.
The joints of the thumb represent:
the first energy, the second logic,
the third affection. We may therefore draw up the following table:—•
Firstjoint too long—pride, obstinacy.
Firstjoint long and strong—strong will-power.
Firstjoint short—indecision, self-distrust, weakness (unless it is broad).
Firstjoint very short—passivity.
First joint broad, strong, swollen—stubbornness (for instance Proudhon),
Firstjoint ball-shaped—pigheadedness, even brutishness.
Firstjoint pointed—poetic sensitiveness (Victor Hugo).
Firstjoint conical or round—varied but slight abilities.
Firstjoint square—practical and reasoned will-power.
First joint spatulate—impulsive will-power.
C H I R O M A N C Y
Tu b Fix o ebs a n d t u b Mo u n t s
os t b b Ha n d .
164
Second joint long and strong—
justice, clarity, lope.
Secondjoint depressed or short—lack ofjudgment.
Thirdjoint (root ofthe thumb—
seeM
ountofVenus).
But it is not enough to consider the joints by themselves. Their
relations amongst each other are also of value. For instance:—
The twofirst joints equal—
goodbalance(F. deLesseps).
First thick and long, secondshort—energy without logic.
First short, second long—
m
orelopethanwill-power.
The debauched and prostitutes often have the root of the thumb
developed and the remaining two joints short.
According to d’Arpentigny:—
Thumb short—
m
orefeelingsthanideas; m
oreheartthanreasonandenergy.
Thumb long—
the head predominates, will-power, personality, firmness,
perseverance.
Thumb very long—
dominating will-power of the leaders, the ambitious, the
arriviste.1
Thumb thin—
organicweakness.
Thumb narrow—
guile and subtlety.
Thumb thick—
solid temperament.
Distrust the thumb which is bent back (cowardice). Choose your
servants among the short thumbs. A thumb not very loose indicates
frankness and disdain of prejudices. Desbarolles claims that he has
several times seen the sign of eroticism in a hand where the thumb,
in the middle of the palm, may take a kind of phallic shape (as in the
case of the murderer Castex, etc). Avoid persons who have the habit
of enclosing their thumb in their hand, and thus suppress their own
will-power.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
2. T h e F i b s t F i n g e r
It is the finger which points, orders, threatens, decides, attacks.
It is the finger of Jupiter.
Pointed—
contradicts its role. Tendency to contemplation leanings to art.
Conical—
itissaidthatinthiscaseitpredisposestoreadingandgentlesimplicity.
Square—
bourgeois, orderly, regularleanings.
Spatulate (rare)—
exaggerated mysticism.
Straight, upright—
love of independence and fighting (the Irish patriot M
aud
Oonne).
Short—
temperedambition(unlessit is hard, thick, spatulate).
1 Many great men bad large thumbs—Descartes, Newton, Galileo, Leibnitz, Danton,
Luther, Corot. Voltaire had enormous thumbs. Montaigne, La Fontaine bad the nail joint
of the thumb rather short, because they were ruled by doubt or by a naivetd which formed
the charm of their genius.
165
As in the thum b, let us rapidly study the joints :—
First, long—
intuition, religiousness.
First, short—
scepticism, unbelief (especiallyif it is square).
First, fleshy—sensual pleasures.
First, dry—
stern religion.
First, broad, withnail bentback—
phthisisandscrofula(medicalobservation).
Second, long—
ambitiondeterminedto succeed.
Second, short—
efforts without success.
Second, eby—ambition, love of glory.
Third, long, strong—
love of domination.
Third, short—
retirement.
Third, dry—
disdainof thejoys of life, asceticism.
8 . T h e Mi d d l e F i n g e r
The finger of the centre. The axis of life. Represents destiny.
Besides derives from the Mount of Saturn.
Pointed—
loses its saturnian character. Intuition. Study of great problems
easy.
Square—
-rigour, intolerance, discipline.
Spaiulate, flat topped, swollen—
sombre sadness, taste for profound studies
love of the soil and of mines.
Long—
gloomypride, doubt of self, fatalism.
Thick—
philosophical materialism.
Nail jotnt long, broad—prudence, morbidness.
Nail joint short—gentle resignation.
Nail joint thin, dry—
scepticism and funereal simplicity.
Secondjoint long—love of agriculture, and, withknot, of occultism.
Secondjoint short—
uselessness of all experience of life.
Third tong—
avarice, love of mortification.
Short—
wellthought out economy.
4. Th e Rin g Fin g e r
Finger of the sun, of the ring In sympathy with the heart. Finger
of art and the ideal.
Pointed—
fortunate aestheticleanings.
Conical—more disposed to commerce.
Square—
love of nches, of artistic truth found in reason.
Spaiulate—
artappliedtomovement(paintingofbattles,militarymarches,the
dance, the theatre).
Short—
indifferenceto glory, andif veryshort, lowinstincts.
Long—
love ofshow, ofspending,offame.
Knotty—reasoned love of beauty.
Badly shaped—shameful celebrity (of criminals!.
C H I R O M A N C Y
166
Firstjoint long—
noblelove ofart, ofintellectualasceticism(less nobleif it is
short).
Firstjointfleshy—
definiteandsensual seekingafter beauty.
Firstjoint dry—
spiritual seeking after beauty.
Second long—
reasonin art, talent, originality.
Second short—
impossibility of success (the failures).
Secondfleshy—
realisticart.
Second dry—
idealistic art.
Third—
long in proportionto the probability of success.
5. Th e L it t l e F in g e r
The chattering finger. The mercurian finger of skill, of intuition,
of eloquence, of nous.
Pointed or conical—
natural eloquence, perspicacity.
Satiate or spalulaie—
practical and reasoned science, physical skill.
Short—
quick assimilation.
Long—reflection, knowledge of life, perfectibility.
Knotty—
pronounced com
m
ercial abilities.
Badly shaped—
bad luck, lack of skill.
Folded inward—
sign of arthriticism (according to Professor Landouzyi.
First joint long—
taste for study.
First joint short—
mental laziness.
Second—
short or long according to cleverness in speculation.
Third—
long orshortaccordingtoguile orsimplicity.
Sometimes the little finger has, or seems to have, only two joints.
If the nail joint is the longer—lack of guile and intellectual qualities.
If it is the shorter—the practical sense dominates the aesthetic sense.V
I
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
VI
The K nots
The knots are the prominant articulations which connect the
joints.
The knot called philosophical binds the nail joint to the second.
The knot called material binds the second joint to the third.
Smooth fingers may become knotty. The contrary never occurs.
Exaggerated knots denote excess, hence disorder of the faculties.
The philosophic knot is the index of the need to know, to compare,
to discuss, sometimes to deprecate others, to doubt everything.
Few women have it. Desbarolles says that it is often seen among
Parisians, as well as the square finger and the smooth finger.
The knot of material order denotes the practical qualities, the love
of order, of well-being, of wealth. It is useful for commercial men,
business men, calculators.
If these two kinds of knot exist, they spoil the beauty of the hand,
but are a benefit to the possessor. Knots are useful to pointed or
spatulate hands. They give reflection and patience.
C H I R O M A N C Y 167
VII
The Handshake
According to the Daguesah, this also gives information. It has
been posable to draw up the following little table as to this:
Ordinary withgood-nature:—Superficial or cunning men.
Short:—Men avaricious or afraid of emotion.
Dragging:—The simple formality of the indifferent.
Brutal:—That of a bully or a rude man.
Broad andfrank:—Of a friend, a good-hearted man.
Heavy:—Of the indolent to whom all movement is a task.
From the tips ofthefingers:—Of the disdainful (insolent gesture).
Caressingand lasting:—Of a voluptuary.
Caressing with pressureCarnal desire.
VIII
The M ounts
However much the “ scientific chirologists ” disclaim their interest
in Astrology, they are compelled to admit that the protuberances at
the roots of the fingers and at the percussion (the outer part of the
hand opposite to the thumb which is used when banging with the
fist) are the synthesis of the abilities and instincts given to each of
these fingers. At these points there are heaps of pacinic corpuscles
which are as it were the condensers of the nerves ofthe hand, reservoirs
of magnetic electricity, of rising sap. Perhaps it is not foolish to
think that the astral sign-m anual is there, and explains, together
with the names which the scientifics have had to preserve, the corres
ponding planetary influence.
However this may be, here is the list and the place1 of these
protuberances:—
At the root ofthethumb:—The mount of Venus.
At therootofthefirstfinger:—The mount of Jupiter.
‘ Seep. 163s the drawing of the finger? and the mounts of the hand.
168
Attherootofthemiddlefinger:—The mount of Saturn.
At theroot oftheringfinger:—The mount of the Sun.
At therootofthelittlefinger:—The mount of Mercury.
Below the mount ofMercury:—The mount of Mars.
Belowthemount of Mars:—The mount of the Moon.
Between these seven mounts, the remaining space is called the Plain of Mars.
Pre-eminent mounts always denote an abundance, even a plethora
of fluid. When flat, they denote a relative absence of power, of sap,
of passion. When hollow, they show the contrary of the abilities
indicated.
Lines on the mounts indicate increased nervous power. One
mount larger than all the others shows the dominant influence on the
life. If it is distinguished beyond all others, this excess is probably
ratherfatal, a real tyranny exercised overthe person.
Let us now consider each of these little mounts, so remarkable and
so expressive.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
1. Mo u n t o f Ju pit e r
Belowthefirstfinger, andlikeit, it refersto ambition, to dominance,
to honours.
Well proportioned, it gives the jupiterian qualities of reward well
earned, of the joy of living, of normal recompense. It foretells happy
marriages, loving unions.
In excess:—Pride, the desire to shine, to command, exaltation, superstition.
Depressed:—Lack of dignity, common leanings.
Leaning towards (he mount of Saturn:—Religious aspirations. If it absorbs
thelatter:—Success at any price.
If there are to be seen:—
Straight upward lines:—Good prospect of success.
Crosslin e s:—Domestic sorrows (VictorHugohad this fatidic sign; his terrible
losses are well known).
Dots:—Position in danger, disappointed ambition.
A bar:—Delayed opportunities.
A triangle:—Aptitude for diplomatic sciences.
A cross:—Happy omen of love.
A star:—The best of all signs. Complete satisfaction. This sign never lies
(Rem).
2 . M o u n t o p S a t u r n
Below the middle finger and its symbol of destiny.
Plain, full, smooth—quiet life:—Possible success if other unlucky signs are
absent.
Pre-eminent (rare):—Serious, bitter, splenetic character.
Leaning towards Jupiter:—Ambition is victorious over science. Bad reputa-
tion.
LeaningtowardstheSun:—Artistic tastes, but leaning towards melancholy.
One or more dots on it:—Fatality, unhappiness.
A triangle:—Aptitude to mystical or occult sciences.
A cross:—Fatal mysticism.
A star:—Threat of serious illness, paralysis, painful death, murder.
8. Mo u n t o f t h e Su n
Below the ring finger—glory, wealth, artistic leanings. Therefore
if normal it is a good sign. If excessive, it draws beyond these noble
qualitiesto theiroppositedefects. Depresseditcancelsthesetendencies.
Slight and plain;—Quiet life, without fame.
Ascendinglines:—Are as usual signs of good prospects.
Disordered lines:—Exuberance, presumption, lightheartedness.
Crosslines:—Struggles, obstacles, changes.
A star:—Possibly aangerous successes (e.g. General Boulanger).
A bar:—Vanity, false glory, lack of power, hindrances.
A triangle;—Great artistic aptitudes.
A small island at the bottomand on the line ofthe Sun.'—Success, perhaps as
the result of adultery.
Holes orpits:—Diseases of the kidneys.
4. Mo u n t o f Me b c u b y
Below the little finger. Intelligence, abilities, eloquence, medicine,
commerce.
Normal:—Possibility of success in the Mercurian branches of activity.
Abnormal:—Theft, cunning, lies, bankruptcy, discredit, pretentious ignorance.
Depressed or absent:—None of the abilities resulting from the mount.
Swollen, leaningtowards thepercussion:—Extreme cunning, greed for gain.
Leaning towards theSun:—Union of art to eloquence ana to science.
It has been observed that people with leanings towards medical or
natural sciences, the wives, daughters or mistresses of doctors, nurses,
hospital sisters, etc., have on Mercuryrising lines. If at the same time
the mount of the Moon is strongly developed they take care of them
selves and drug much. They arethe type ofthe imaginary patient.
Unions, marriages, widowhoods, children, are written on the
percussion of the mount of Mercury.
Cross or baron this mount;—Kleptomania (leaning to theft).
Triangle:—Diplomatic or political abilities.
C H I R O M A N C Y 169
170 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
5.Mo u n t o f Ma s s
It represents struggle, resistance. Normal it gives courage, calm,
self-restraint. Even its excess is favourable, especially if the thumb
is large (will-power). Big and plain it indicates firmness, tenacity.
Absent orflat, the contrary—flabby,cowardlybeingswithoutcharacter.
United with the Moon in one single swelling, it betokens resigned
heedlessness.
OnMarslines are a badsign; they makeviolent, foretell bronchitis,
laryngitis. A star threatens a serious wound (many had it who died
in the war). Abarmeanspossible violent death. Atriangle—military
science.
The plain of Mars often contains the signs of the struggles of life.
Smooth, without wrinkles, it means peace. Hollow, it means non-
resistance. With many lines, it indicates constant fighting. But the
fighting often comes from the Martian himself; a cross on the plain
snows nim violent and quarrelsome. If in addition the head line is
short, thenall the wildpassionsarelet loose. Atrianglethere promises
military glory. A large cross united to a Venus line leads to the date
of a catastrophe; as witness the Empress Eugenie who with this
sign bore the prediction ofthe Franco-Germanwarfor about herforty-
fifth year; in it she lost her crownand soon after herhusband.
6. Mo u n t o f t h e Mo o n
If normal it gives, according to Desbarolles, a gentle melancholy
and poetic imagination, love of dreaming and of silence, of harmony
and mystery. But if exaggerated, the caprices of the Madwoman of
the House, mobility, sadness, fanaticism, vapours and megrims.
If absent ordepressed, nosense ofbeauty, ofenthusiasm, ofillusion,
buta cold, dry,hardcharacter. If thinand lined,itbetokenslascivious
curiosity. Striated, itisasignofmadness, ofirritation, ofeffervescence,
of the dread of chiiiiaeras, ofthe love of the odd. These troubles come
from the heart if that line is predominant, from pride with a strong
jupiterian mount, from business with a prominent Mercury, from love
if Venus is mistress.
Lunar lines incline to forebodings, to premonitory dreams, to
hallucinations. Together with large eyes and a good head line, good
memory and aptness for languages are foretold. A star on the Moon
mount foretells a danger on the water, and poor Lantelme who died
drowned, had it, very strongly marked on a line of travel on the per
cussion ofthe hand. Anislandonthe mountmakes the somnambulist,
the seer, givesthe diviningsense (e.g., the youngerDumas). Atriangle
means common sense, intuition, maritime science; a bar sorrow, rest
lessness, exaltation, in the woman shamelessness. On the percussion
arefound imagination (more or less numerous small lines) and journeys
(horizontal lines going towards the back of the hand).
7. Mo u n t o f Ve n u s
It is the root of the thumb, the largest of the mounts of the hand.
The line of life surrounds it. It is the seat not so much of love as of
vital essence, the movements of the soul, affectibility, attractions
towards joy and voluptuousness.
Nevertheless if sentimental love is especially written on the heart
line, it is on the mount of Venus that sensual love is inscribed. If
therefore it is harmonious, normally striated, the pleasures of the
senses will attract normally, and also the intellectual pleasures, music,
the dance, beauty, luxury. If it is weak and smooth—small attraction
to lust. On the contrary the latter is victorious together with its
unhappy train on an exaggerated lined mount, especially if thick and
hard. The true libertine, says Desbarolles, is shewn by the manifold
lines whichare accentuated bya ringofVenus(seebelow). Most ofthe
gallant women have this, together with a short thumb (lack of will
power). But a curious thing is that persons with the same sign, if
they nave a pointed first finger, may also incline towards mysticism,
in their troubled need to love something—the flesh or a God.
Sometimes we see on the mount of Venus dots, signs of accidents;
a triangle, sign of base calculation in love; abar, sign oflasciviousness,
of sexual perversion ; a cross, sign of a sole and unhappy love (unless
afurthercross, onJupiter, transformsthisunhappinessinto happiness);
a star, possible sign of unhappiness in love (if the star is connected with
the head line, divorce or separation).
It is said that four equidistant lines going from the root of the
thumb to the mount of Venus denote inheritances at a ripe age (Rem);
that if these lines are placed towards the end of the life line it means
that the legacy will come inyouth; that if there are only two or three
it means that the legacy wul not be so considerable; finally that if
these linescross each otherat the end, it means alawsuit onthis matter.
It is said that several lines crossing on the top of the mount of Venus
towardsthejointure ofthethumbmeanfallfromahorse, fromavehicle,
oraccident in the mountains. It is saidthat the root ofthe thumb cut
in several places foretells death by drowning or by strangling, that
one ortwo thick lines crossingthe thumbthreatenmurderorbeheading.
Butlet usleave these funerealpresages andcometo morecheerfulones :
—numerous and rather shallow small lines tell of little love affairs;
not very numerous thick lines proclaim the serious passions; lines
going from the root of the thumb to the life line and meeting on the
mount reveal a double love.
C H I R O M A N C Y 171
172 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
IX
The Lines of the Hand
These axe the great revealers, the pythonesses who are most easily
questionedandwhoreplymostobediently. Theyarethe varyingsigns
ofvitality, of energy, of sensitiveness, whichthe astral influence signed
from the day of birth. Their decrees modify those of the mounts and
the fingers. They reflect the will of the brain, its impulses, its starts,
its weaknesses, even its organic blemishes, and the whole of the past,
present and future existence of the
subject. They in some way automatic
ally record our deeds, and even fore
warn us, they tell us mutely of our
fate.1
The lines of the hand, at least the
chief ones, are formed in the maternal
womb, at the same time asthe features
of the face. “ God placed signs in the
hands of men,” say the Sacred Books,
“so that all might know their fate.”
These lines change during the course of
life and disappearat death.
The diversity of temperaments and
ofvitalities causes theirvariety. There
are no two persons with the same lines.
Thelinesarethemorenumerousaccord
ing to whether we have a complicated
or sensitive soul. The working classes
have much more simple lines than men
and women of the world or the elect.
They change, we repeat, under the
influence of our occupations and pre
occupations.
Each hand corresponds to the
opposite brain, the right to the left hemisphere, the left to the right
hemisphere, as is provedbyhemiplegia.
1 “ Troubles, sorrows, the neat moral shocks, reverses of fortunes, illnesses, accidents,
leave traces on the face, on the physiognomy, engrave lines on it which even change its features
and its expression. These events of a life, these revealing reflexes, inscribe themselves by
corresponding stigmata on the hand as on the bee.It is the same with all important events,
with accidents to beware of, with morbid germs which must open and blossom at a more or has
early time. The date of the event and that of the blossoming inscribe themselves also in the
hand. Violent impressions, even if received in childhood, produce and leave their stigmata
and their trace in the band." (Henri Rem, op. cti. p. 158).
The number of the lines of the hand is considerable. They may be
divided in to :—
Three principal ones (lines of life, head, heart).
Foot secondary ones (lines of fate, sun, health, intuition).
Eleven ancillary ones, of which the rings round the wrist, the ring of VenuB
eto., are described later.
Let us give a few general remarks on the lines.
The principal and secondary lines are sometimes accompanied by
a sister-line which mends their bad effect in case of breaks, but increases
this bad effect if the line itself is not good, or doubles the good effect
if both are good.
The colours of the lines must be considered. Pale or light yellow
they betoken lymphaticism, therefore calm. Red they are a sign
of sanguineness, therefore of power, of passion, even of violence. Yellow
they are a sign of bile, hence of pessimism, of sadness. Livid, dark
blue, they show materialism, disorder, grudge, especially if the fingers
corroborate these defects.
Good lines, th at is to say those which are complete, dear, fairly
broad and deep, are a sign of good character, of normal fa te ; their
predictions in this case are very sure.
Imperfect lines, confused, twisted, denote a bizarre being, lacunse,
dangers. If too strong, this sign is excessive. Very deep they intensify
it. Fine and numerous they mean nervousness, activity. Broad, not
very deep, not very numerous, they show calm and power of resistance.
Broken, cut, they mean stops, changes, dangers, restless fate. Regular
and numerous they indicate a noble life, intellect, sensitiveness.
These lines and signs are not the same in the two hands which supple
m ent each other. If the two hands are appreciably alike, their pre
dictions are the surer. If not, they must both oe looked at, remembering
th at the right hand is that of activity, the left that of passivity. The
hand which has the greater number of lines is the dominant of the
subject, th a t is to say shows whether he is more active or passive.
The man of feeling wul have the left hand more lined. He will have
the luck of chance. He whose right hand is more lined has only himself
to rely upon.
A part from the lines, the hand contains various signs, stars, crosses,
triangles, bars, isles, chains, etc., which we shall look at in the following
pages.
• • • • • •
The Line ofLife.—I t is the one which runs like a rivulet of sap round
the vast promontory of Venus. I t is the most important, the one
which indicates the amount of vital energy, the probabilities of long
life, of serious accidents. We must therefore study it carefully.
C H I R O M A N C Y 173
174 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
The writer of our Introduction has already observed that, according
to the opinion of Fraya, it would be better to name it the line of vitality,
for its length is not, as the man in the street (or the sibyl of low degree)
generally claims, necessarily in accord with the number of years we
nave to live. If it were, it would be criminal or a t least dangerous to
tell the client exactly his early or distant end, thus implanting in him
a fixed idea which would be capable, as the fatal hour approached, of
putting him into such a state of moral and physical infenority th at he
would run the risk of himself
advancing the hour of his death.
In the same way the client, by
taking the necessary care of his
health, is able to strengthen it and
thus himself to lengthen this line
which, we repeat, is but a sign of
vitality. On the other hand, and
this is remarkable, a line of life will
never shrink firom the length which
it shows at the moment of exam
ination. If for instance it indicates
that a person aged 50 may possibly
live to 70, it may be that he wifi
live even to 80, but he will not live
only to 60 except in the case of a
sudden accident, which anyhow
would also be written in the palm.
However this may be it is possible
roughly to say that when the line
of life reaches to the line round the
wrist, there is the possibility that it
will mark at least 80 years on the
dial of life. By dividing the line
from its start below the mount of
Jupiter, up to this point either by
ten or by seven years,1we obtain a
scale of the stages of life as follows:
From birth to 7 years, which is the age ofreason (childhood). Instincts,
probable character.
From 7 to 14 years, which is the “ difficult age ” (adolescence).
Natural aptitudes.
1The traditionalists made this division by ten. The “ renovators ’*of chiromancy make
it by 7, baaing thennelvea on the doctrine of the physiologist Flourena who teaches that the
total renewalof the cells ofthe body takesplacein 7 years. Wehave adopted this lattermethod
which admits of a more rationaldivision of the “ ages ” of life. Andwho docs not see that here
we adopt once more the occult law of the septenary ?
From 14 to 21 years (that is to say the time of puberty). Illusions
and hopes.
From 21 to 28 years, the period of sensual pleasures (youth). Physical
love, enthusiasms, inconstancy.
From 28 to 85 years (manly age). Physical and intellectual pleasures.
The best time of life.
From 85 to 42 years (middle age). Consistent desire for wealth
or honour.
From 42 to 49 years (ripe age). Wisdom, reason, culminating point
of life.
From 49 to 56 years (critical age). Prudence, foresight, care of the
health so as to “ round the cape.”
From 56 to 68 years (autumn). Reflections and first regrets.
From 68 to 70 years (first old age). Infirmities, pains, trouble or
quiet in the home.
From 70 to 77 years (second old age). The fingers become knotty,
the heart also. The character is apt to become bitter.
From 77 to 84 or 91 years (senility). Distrust, the grave yawns.
After the age of 91, if man still lives, he becomes again a child,
indifferent, vegetating, inert, ghostly.
In order to classify events according to their dates, the scale of the
stages of life will therefore be consulted. We now give a table of the
chief peculiarities of the line of life:—
Good line, long, pink, free of signs, or breaks—good and long life.
Pale and not very broad—delicate health, lymphaticism.
Pale and broad—little strength in much sap. Very broad—bad
health (valetudinarianism).
Red—strong health; red and broad—violence; livid and very
broad—spitefulness, brutality.
Bluish—venusian character. Dark blue—martian character (bad
temper).
Long—possibility of long life. Long and thin—but little sap,
timidity, nerves.
Like a chain, broken—sickly and troubled life.
Broken at birth—illness in early childhood.1 Often interrupted—
many illnesses.
Tortuous—unequal temper. Badly drawn—delicate but resisting
health.
Short—risk of short life (especially if the two hands are alike).
In two pieces—mortal danger (unless in the other hand the line is
not cut).
Double—great vital power. In women the sign of passion without
1 Broken in one bond, continuous in the other indicates the certainty of an illness which
has placed or will place in danger of death (Desbaroilea).
C H I R O M A N C Y 176
restraint (e.g. Clara Ward, who married a prince, then the Gipsy Rigo,
then the undistinguished Italian Ricciardo, and lower still a man named
Cassalota). Victor Hugo had the rarity of a triple life line. His enor
mous vitality is well known.
Branches at the start—promise of wealth. A t the end, towards
Venus—loss of fortune; towards the ring round the wrist—misery.
Branches thrown out from the comer of the life line towards the head
line—success. Towards the Moon—rheumatism. Towards the plain
of Mars—full success but after trials. Towards Saturn or the Sun—
fame, wealth.
A line at the start going towards Jupiter—ambition, success.1
Life line forked towards the bottom—weakening on the turn of
life. Rest necessary when the rime comes (Lamartine had this mark,
to which we owe a fine melancholy page written by Ars&ne Houssaye).
Clean lines proceeding from the life line—success due to personal
merit.
Straight line going to Venus or from the life line to Mercury—
successes in business or in love.
Lines crossing the life, head or heart line—changes of position, of
fortune or of fate.
Lines going from Venus to the plain of Mars, called lines of sorrow
—illness, bad Tuck.
176 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
The Line of Head.—It is found in the middle of the hand, starts
between the thumb and the first finger, forms with the life line “ the
supreme angle,” and traversing the plain of Mars, ends by the per
cussion. It is the line of mental activity. On it are inscribed wounds
of the head, neurasthenia, madness, all the mental diseases, and also
Sualities of initiative and reasoning. Its absence in a hand is a sign of
eath by accident.
In order to ascertain the approximate date of the events foretold
by it, it is divided by perpendicular lines drawn on to it from the middle
of each finger, from the first finger to the little finger, which gives five
divisions, from 0 to 10 years, from 10 to 15, from 15 to 25, from 25 to
50 and from 50 to 75.
If clear, long, straight, slightly sloping, it indicates balance of
faculties and firm will-power.
If very long, going to the percussion, straight, dry, it means excessive
reasoning, therefore some egoism, positivism, calculation in everything,
arrivism, self-restraint. I t was like this in Corot’s hand, and no doubt
in Fontenelle’s to whom Tensin said that he had a brain instead of a
heart. If in addition such a line curves towards Mercury or sends a
* It sometimes comes up suddenly before a future success (Rem).
branch in th a t direction, it means that calculation turns to cunning,
to a genius for affairs even somewhat unscrupulous.
When it is forked and one branch goes towards the Moon, it indicates
an aptitude to invent opportune lies (sophists, advocates, solicitors,
and also actors who drop their own personality at will so as to represent
their part, and women who are clever at getting out of difficulties).
If the line plainly slopes towards the mount of the Moon, it means
a leaning towards imagination, towards poetry. If it is goes lower
down, it means taste for simplicity, for occultism, for spiritualism.
If double, the head line foretells proba
bility of money in middle life.
If it leaves the life line late, it is a sign
of late development of the intellect. If it
begins without touching the life line it
inmcates serious eye trouble in youth. If
starting beneath the middle finger, the
development of the intellect is considerably
hindered.
If short, the character is weak. Ending
beneath the middle finger shews danger of
death in youth. Stopping below the ring
finger means in women coquetry, in men
unfaithfulness, often a spoilt life.
Cut near the start—wounds or disease of
the lower limbs, wounds to the head
generally as the result of a fall.
Cut in pieces—tendency to headaches,
lack of memory or stupidity. If in two
pieces—serious wound or madness. If the
pieces cross each other under Saturn—severe
accident (it is found in many criminals
condemned to execution).
Will-power, courage are in proportion to its depth. If thin and
feeble—lassitude, lymphaticism.
Pale and broad it indicates mental inactivity; red, energy; too red,
danger of apoplexy or epilepsy.
Ascending and curved is a bad sign—a great misfortune threatens
life.
Tortuous it means liver trouble, spite, lies, inconstant will.
Badly formed, confused, scattered—weakness of the brain, madness,
illnesses.
Inclined towards the life line—certain happiness. Near to the
heart line—palpitations, asthma, suffocation. Rising and joining the
heart line—the heart governs the head. B ut if a branch goes towards
C H I R O M A N C Y 177
the heart line, it is on the contrary the head which governs the heart.
A branch towards Jupiter and ending on a star means great success;
but without a star and rising towards the first finger, simple pride.
178 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
The Line ofHeart.—I t runs from the first finger to the percussion,
at the base of the mounts. I t is the voice of the joys and the sorrows
of life, of emotion, of heart troubles, more eloauent in women and
more explanatory in them than in men. Its oracles are supplemented
by the study of the mount of Venus and by the little lines of passion
of which we shall speak presently.
The heart line is divided, like the head
line, by straight lines drawn from the middle
of the fingers starting with the little finger,
but counting is in the reverse direction, 10
(years) being below the little finger, and 25,
50 and 75 below the others.
A good heart line, without accidents,
well coloured, straight, normally deep fore
tells a normal love, made up of serious
affection, goodness, conjugal happiness,
sane friendships, a well balanced soul. I t is
generally like this in French women of all
social classes; it is found in the heroines
of the Revolution:—Madame Tallien,
Madame de Mouchy, Madame Roland, Mile,
de Sombreuil, Madame de Rosambo who on
meeting the latter when going to the
scaffold said to her: “ You have had
the happiness of saving your father, I have
the consolation of dying with mine.’'
According to Rem it is found in true and
sympathetic orators, earnest lawyers, great
preachers, great dramatic artists.
A very large line, especially with branches at the two ends, shows
an excess of sensitiveness. Those of Lamartine, of Sully-Prudhomme,
were of this kind.
Pale, it denotes more calm, and red, an ardour which sometimes
turns to violence.
Slight, thin, fine, it means dryness. Too hollow, cruelty (parricides).
Double, great expansiveness (Dejazet).
A large line, if the mount of the Moon is striated, betokens jealousy,
which is also shewn by the ring of Venus.
If beginning in the first finger—wealth; if under Jupiter, idealism;
in both cases honours and riches are possible. On the contrary mis
C H I R O M A N C Y
fortune and loss of property is foretold if the line starts a t the root
of the first finger; hard work and luck if it starts between the first
and middle fingers; troubled life if it begins under the middle finger;
poverty of heart and of mind if it starts under the ring finger.
If stopping under the middle finger, danger of short life; if under
the ring finger, conceit; if under the little finger, cleverness rather
than sincere love.
Sloping towards the head line—hypocrisy or domination of the
heart by the head. Joining it under the middle finger, risk of violent
death. According to Rem, if it slopes
towards and joins the head line and the life
line and forms a St. Andrew's cross on the
mount of Jupiter it indicates a union or a
marriage entailing suffering and loss of
money.
A confused chain-like heart line indicates
moral prodigality of the heart, physically
a tendency to palpitations. This is the case
with those who are picturesquely called
“ artichoke hearts.” If tortuous at the
ends—heart trouble. Cut or intersected by
other lines—inconstancy. Forked, baa
circulation.
Throwing at the start a branch towards
Jupiter—strong and tender passion; three
branches, wealth.
Some authors place the line of Fate
among the principal, others among the
secondary lines. I t does not matter. We
will now deal with it, and with three other
lines, those of the sun, of health and of
intuition.
The Line ofFate.—Also called the line of luck, of fortune, of fatality,
or saturnian. It is the one which starts from the ring round the wrist
(or from the life line or from the plain or the mount of Mars or the
mount of the Moon) and which ends at the middle finger. The Ancients
called it the line of fate or of fortune, but gave to these words tneir
etymological meaning—th at which happens, that which comes. I t
must therefore not be translated in the sense th at the line denotes
“ good luck ” or wealth. In our opinion, which we offer to chiromancers,
it must be considered as indicating the realisation or otherwise of the
individual in accordance with his abilities. It can therefore be good
179
in a peasant, a rich man, a poor man, a man of small position, a noble
man, a maidservant, a priest, etc., if they have “ reamed ” their lives
according to their respective abilities.
I t is a curious line, changeable even during the course of life, rich
in combinations. Its direction towards one mount or the other denotes
the tendency of the powers of the individual—here towards the arts,
there towards position, elsewhere towards commerce. Those in whom
it is absent or weak may possibly succeed, but they have only themselves
to rely upon.
In order to know the approximate dates of the events, it is divided
like the others, by placing 80 (years) where it crosses the head line,
and normally 15 at the end, by the mount of Saturn.
If good in both hands it means assured success.
If better at the beginning than a t the end, hard times in old age.
If irregular in a hand with many lines—excessive sensitiveness
making success difficult.
Accompanied by small lines—good omen, obstacles overcome.
Made up of small lines—illnesses, indecision.
Confused—changeable fate, capricious; also if it is broken, cut,
reconnecting at each instant.
If it has ascending branches—destiny improves little by little
(towards the sign of the mount attained).
Its beginnings are important. If a t the ring round the wrist, and
straight to the end—happy calm fate. If a t the life line, happiness
acquired by merit. At the mount of Mars—power of resistance to
attacks. At the plain of Mars—difficulties, especially at the start,
discouragement, black thoughts. At the mount of the Moon—good
fortune by chance or by other people.
Stopping at the head line: Rash act or brain trouble At the
heart line—heart trouble or change of position owing to an affair of
the heart. At the mount of Saturn—happy old age. If forked,
difficult old age.
If cut on Saturn by cross lines—obstacles, misfortunes. Rising
towards the middle finger—great destiny for good or for evil. Rising
towards Jupiter—success.
Very red, possibility of catastrophes.
Lengthened across the lines of the wrist—tragic destiny.
180 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
The Line of Sun.—This line rises from various points of the hand,
but most frequently from the ring round the wrist or the head or heart
line towards the root of the ring finger where the mount of the Sun is,
which it dents with a more or less pronounced groove. I t shows the
enthusiasm of the being (for the Sun means expansion) and it is very
C H I R O M A N C Y
lucky. He who has it well marked may expect renown. It is in short
the true line of luck. He in whom it is lacking may fear that he will
never succeed. A ll chosen people or those who have arrived possess it.
For the division of the ages we count 80 (from the bottom) up to
the head line, 40 to the crossing with the heart line. The Sun line
docs not generally start before the head or the heart line, because it is
towards the age of 80 th at the future unfolds itself.
Starting from the heart line, if the solar furrow runs beautifully
towards the mount by the ring finger it indicates talent, success, nobility
of soul (Sully-Prudhomme, Sdverine). If from the head line—the will
to arrive by means of the arts or literature (Gyp). If from the intuition
line—good qualities which are somewhat spoilt by excessive imagination.
From the line of Saturn—success and intellectual fame (the elder Dumas,
Gounod, D6jazet). From the mount of Venus or the life line—brilliant
omen (Meissonnier, Victor Hugo, Marcelin Berthelot). From the
mount of the Moon—success for poets, artists, comedians. From the
plain of Mars—agitated fighting, success through struggle (Rodin,
Rljane, Ctemenceau). From the mount of Mars, it excites to ambition,
daring (Got, the younger Dumas, F. Labori, Sarah Bernhardt).
Doubled or tripled—great reputation (Lamartine, Aubert, Corot).
If the solar line ends at Mercury, love of m oney; if on Saturn—
missed vocation.
Crossed by small lines—obstacles (the painter Diaz).
The L ine o f In tu ition runs to the mount of Mercury, starting from the
life, fate or sun line. Clean, long, regular, it means good health, good
memory, eloquence, intuition. Its appearance as m all other lines
indicates the intensity of these qualities,
The H epatic (or health) L ine goes from the mount of Venus to the
line of Life. H. Rem denies the tradition concerning it, declares th at
its traditional qualities are very doubtful, and says that further it is
often mixed up with the mercurian line.
181
Other lines and signs in the h and:—
The R ing o f Venus.—Half circle surrounding the middle and ring
fingers. The ancient chirologists called it a sign of violent passion,
of lasciviousness. H. Rem believes in this sign only if it is double,
triple, badly drawn, broken. Otherwise it is merely a sign of increased
vitality, increased fortune.
The Lascivious L ine.—This line, sister ofthe intuition line, resembling
the milky way, made of all kinds of little parallel lines, seems to betoken
excessive ardour in love, voluptuousness.
182
Rings Round the Wrist.—These are small lines which form a kind
of bracelet round the wrist. There are two or three, rarely more.
I t is said that each denotes 80 years of life. B ut certain reservations
must be made on this subject. The data of the line of life are sufficient
and more sure. Let us confine ourselves to the following notes:—
Badly marked, much interrupted—not very good health, long
illnesses.
Short—accidents which may prove fatal.
Single—bad health and short life.
B ut it may be that towards the age of twenty these lines become
more numerous, deeper, longer. Therefore let us not make this pre
diction unless we know more.
Quadrangle.—This is the rectangular space, also called the Table
of tiie hand, situate between the heart and head lines.
A regular spacious quadrangle indicates balance, loyalty, benevo
lence. If it is missing in one hand it is a bad sign. If it is narrow it
betokens irresolution, lack of go, of spontaneity, and this omen is
strengthened if there are many small lines in it.
Great Triangle.—Formed by the head, heart and intuition lines
in the inside of the hand. Well marked it indicates mental balance.
The contrary indicates opposite qualities. If narrow it points to
narrow-mindedness. If it gets stronger during the course of life, it
means that the latter improves.
Small Triangle.—The meeting of the hepatic (or intuition) line with
the heart and fate lines. Well formed it denotes a taste for the liberal
professions. Archeologists and collectors have it strongly marked.
A fairly considerable number of small signs further occur in the
graphic of the hands, and further interpret tne lines and the mounts.
They are as follows with their meanings according to their position:—
Stars.—Desbarolles says that they announce inescapable events
deriving from the place they occupy. According to H. Rem the
following list may be drawn u p :—
A star on Jupiter—success, wealth; on Saturn (always bad)
paralysis, disastrous death; on the Sun, wealth not bringing happiness,
perils; on Mercury, unscrupulousness; on Mars, serious wound,
death in w ar; on the Moon, peril from water (shipwreck or otherwise);
on Venus, probable disappointments; in the quadrangle, good disposi
tion ; on the head line, wound in the head or madness; at the end of
the head line—head wound or rash a c t; on the life line, misfortunes;
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
on the Sun line—catastrophe if that line is broken; on the ring of
Venus, crime of passion, venereal disease.
On the ring round the wrist—legacy. At the tip of the thumb,
excessive gallantry. On the back of the thumb, voluptuousness. On
the tip of the fingers—peril.
Crosses.—Sign of minor fatalities (except on the mount of Mercury),
especially if well shaped.
C H I R O M A N C Y 183
St a b s a n d Cr o s s e s
Astride on the root of the first finger—happiness; on Jupiter—
love marriage; on Saturn—mysticism; on the Sun—missed fame ;
on Mercury—tendency to theft; on the lunar'mount—danger on the
water; on the mount of Venus—single and fatal love; in the quad
rangle, belowthe middle finger—mysticism; at the beginning ofthe life
line—accident in childhood; in the life line—unfortunate event; in
the middle ofthe headline—braintrouble; onthe heartline—accident;
on the Fate line—alteration of position; on the solar line—stoppage
of luck; on Mercury—aptitude for science, especially occult science;
on the Sun—leaning towards religion (without mysticism); on the
ring round the wrist—unexpected wealth.
Dots.—Their colour is as important as their position.
Dark—bad omen j red—trouble with health; white or pink—good
sign; red on the heart line—love troubles; white on the same line—
sentimental lightheartedness; on the line of fate—obstacles ; on the
line of life—illnesses or wounds; on the head line—wounds ; on the
Sun—sorrows; on Saturn—accident very soon ; on Mercury—business
gone wrong | on the nails—nerves:
Chains.—They indicate a succession of obstacles on the lines—fetters.
On the line of Life—broken health.
On the line of Heart—slight and numerous passions.
On the line of Fate—reverses.
On the line of Fame—bad sign.
On the little finger—confused imagination not very apt at dis*
entangling itself.
Branches.—Leading to the middle finger—effort needed.
Leading to the little finger—practical tendencies.
On the line of Fate—dangers.
On the line of Heart—affection ideal (if rising) or low (if falling).
On the line of Life—health, success, wealth.
Isles.—Two little curves touching at the ends—bad sign.
On the line of Life—clandestine child.
On the line of Heart—adultery.
On the line of Fate—life ruined as the result of adultery.
On the line of Fame—life ruined.
At the base of the little finger—beware of theft and bankruptcy.
Figures.—Approximate figure 5—serious and sad events.
Form of 4 on the mount of Venus—marriage of inclination.
Sign o f Venus—(a little circle surmounted by a cross) great love
shared.
If the cross is below, this love is the source of sorrow.
Sign o f M ars (circle surmounted by an arrow)—strength. Love
of fighting. Duels.
On the line of Life—success due to courage or to decision.
On the line of Heart—genesic strength.
On the line of Fate—favourable sudden event.
A t the base of the little finger—success due to good policy.
Crescents.—Inconstancy, removals.
On the line of Fame—leanings towards music.
On the ring finger—literary vocation.
184 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
B ars.—At the top and close together on the mount of Mercury
they indicate in doctors medical intuition (remark of Desbarolles).
Horizontal going from the Moon to the outer seam—travels.
Forks.—These are two pointed branches departing from a principal
line.
Ascending—good omen. Descending towards the upper part of
the hand—reverse in fortune and lack of success in current enterprises.
R ails.—Their name shows to what these signs resemble. If placed
on a line they hinder its effect.
Suns.—Circles with rays. At the root of the little finger—success
in science ; on the ring finger—prediction of fam e; in the hollow of
the hand—victory over difficulties; a t the root of the thumb—gallant
successes; on the Moon—journeys.
Squares.—Tokens of energy. If numerous—luck abroad.
Sm all triangles.—If numerous—abilities.
C H I R O M A N C Y 186
We want to draw attention again to the very remarkable work of
G. Muchery on the signs, visible in the hand, of heredity, of illnesses
and of death which the very learned organiser of the International
Congresses of Psychology has observed during years of experiments
on hundreds of hands of scholars, of artists, of patients, of madmen,
of centenarians, etc.
I t is a medical chiromancy into which our scheme does not allow
us to go in detail, but which is of the highest interest. We are con
vinced th at in the very near future Medicine will take official note of it,
for in the opinion of the author it is possible to discover in the hand
very clear symptoms of all kinds of perturbations of the organism,
such as poor circulation of the blood, albuminuria, cancer, diabetes,
epilepsy, troubles of the stomach, the kidneys, the eyes, the legs, the
throat, the bowels, gout, hysteria, premature impotence, rheumatism,
paralysis, tuberculosis, etc. Also sudden and accidental death, tendency
to suicide, madness, and so on.
In the same book a very curious chapter deals with the signs of
intellect, and an analysis is given of a great number of eminent people.
X
Seem ing Contradictions and Combinations
I t may happen th at an analysis made with the help of the above
details leads to contradictions of predictions. The reason for this
will be th a t observation was defective. Further, certain combinations
or junctions of the lines modify their individual significance. And
besides no one has a character all of one piece. A man having a certain
defect may a t certain times show a reaction, a move towards the
opposite direction. Let us take one by one the lines of which we have
spoken.
Line of Life.—Cleanly separated from the Head line, it denotes a
light fantastic individual, not very sure in his dealings, but succeeding
by his self-confidence.
If it joins th at line between the thumb and the first finger, it denotes
on the other hand a well-balanced mind which does not give in to
fancies.
If the three lines (life, head and heart) join, beware of fancies.
These people are not very much masters of themselves. They must
beware of accidents and catastrophes.
The line of Life interrupted by small lines indicates th a t the liver
must be looked after.
If the lines of Life, H eart and Head form a square well designed,
it is a token of an equable character and a good constitution.
If the mount of Venus extends as far as Jupiter, it is a sign of violent
passions, and sometimes of sudden death.
Line of Heart.—If mixed up with the Head line—tendency to a
“ thunderclap ” in love.
If the join is towards the middle of the palm—disappointments in
love may cause violent actions.
If the H eart line surrounds Mercury up to the folding of the hand—
self-interest pursued in sentimental affairs—infidelity.
Line of H eart descending towards the line of Head—leaning towards
platonic love.
Line of H eart ending in a curve towards the root of the first finger—
exaggerated mysticism.
Line of H eart traversing the whole hand cutting through the mounts
—inconstant feelings.
Line of H eart very near to the line of Head—hypocrisy.
Line ofFate.—Very straight from the ring round the wrist to Saturn,
touching the line of Life—existence without troubles, health and
wealth.
Mixed up with the line of Life—found in those who have risen through
their own merit.
Joined to the small line which traverses the mount of the Moon—
variations of fortune due to variations of temperament.
Joined to the line of the Sun—success in the arts.
Starting obliquely from the mount of the Moon—fate upset by
dreams.
186 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Starting from the mount of Venus—love will be the great pre
occupation of life.
Ending in a cross towards the mount of the Sun—mental derange
ment through crashing of expectations.
Ending before the mount of Saturn—melancholy due to lack of
mental balance.
R ing o f Venus.—Joined to the Line of Heart—risk of stupid acts
owing to base love.
Touching the line of the Sun—propensity to voluptuousness.
L in e o f the Sun.—Joined to the line of Mercury—abilities thwarted
by excess of imagination.
Ending a t the line of Mercury—eloquence useful in good things.
Directed towards Mars by crossing Mercury—low sestheticism.
Directed towards the mount of the Moon—tendency towards
mystic or baroque art.
Mixed up with the lines of Life and of Mercury—sane, balanced
and profitable art.
Mounts of the Sun and of Mars mixed up—low art imposing itself
by bluff.
Line of Mercury.—Traversing the Head line—sure judgment.
Traversing the H eart line—feeling dominating the practical side.
Ending on the mount of the Moon—characteristic of inventors
without tne means for action.
Ending on Mercury—practical intellect.
Joining the life line—sign of preparations a long way ahead.
Ending on the mount of the Sun—inventive imagination.
The mounts of Mercury and of Mars joined—laborious and practical
temperament.
CHIROMANCY 187
XI
Luck, Adultery and the Hand
According to Papus1:—
A spatuiate finger denotes lack in material enterprises.
A square finger denotes luck in scientific enterprises.
A pointed finger indicates luck in art and diplomacy.
Fine lines under the little finger denote aptitude for great commercial affairs.
A fork below the ring finger denotes the probability of becoming rich.
A cross below the first finger (mount of Jupiterl—sign of luck in love
* The Book oj buck.
in the subject, and by a fresh love. Another line goes from the Life
line, crosses the plain of Mars and ends a t Mercury—towards the age
of 80 a fresh liaison without giving up the first (isle in the Saturn line),
hence adultery.
8. T ype o f hand o f woman horn to deceive men :—Head line forked
(lies and cunning in getting out of all difficulties). Mount of Venus
high and broad (sensual passion). Line of adultery giving rise to two
others going towards Mercury and the Sun (practical use of her lovers).
4. T ype o f adultery without knowing i t :—Short, broad, firm, material
hand. Head line straight (frankness). Mount of Venus lined (solid
appetites). No line of adultery. This woman had a lover of whom
she did not know that he was married.
5. T ype o f adulterous m an succeeding through wom en:—Sign of
unhappy marriage—H eart line joining the Life line and forming a
cross on Jupiter. Sign of the divorce which followed:—line starting
from Venus, crossing the Life line and joining the Head line by a cross.
Sign of a liaison which brought him money in the line of the Sun.
Sign of licentiousness—double ring of Venus.
190 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
X H
A Specim en P rint
As a practical conclusion of this chapter we give here the photo
graph of a print of a hand made by Mr. Muchery who will himself
m a short analysis teO us what he thinks of i t :—
Hand signed by the Moon and Mars, hence hand of an active and
imaginative type giving for this reason contradictions or rather a
succession of selenian and martian impulses which may also at times
be combined.
This imagination of the subject will not be sterile dreaming, as
Mars will always try to cany it into effect; but actions are sometimes
precipitate, whilst certain periods are calm, even taciturn and melan
choly. The subject will have to pass through crises of pessimism,
even neurasthenia, but there is the probability that his discouragements
will not last long and will be followed by fresh flashes of effort and
enthusiasm.
By its shape the hand is artistic and sensual, denoting the taste for
the beautiful and the good. Whether he holds a pen or a brush,
the subject will do strong esthetic work which will be surrounded by
charming details, for the influence of the Moon will soften everything
he touches.
C H I R O M A N C Y 191
Intellect mixed, at once synthetic and analytic, fond of details
and also ofthe whole, judging sanely and without spite when he becomes
critical. Square hand, ruling in spite of the Martian influence.
The health docs not seem very strong, but has improved, for physical
resistance is written on a good little mount of Venus.
The Head line is remarkable—strong mental activity and great
sensitiveness come through the branches from the heart rather than
the brain; patience for a task of long duration, and constant desire
to learn (first finger pointed, sign of intellectual curiosity).
Good Heart line denoting goodness, sensitiveness, impulsiveness,
and also defective circulation or the blood (forks, bars on Mars which
may cause hemoptysis). Bars on Saturn and vertical lines crossing
the Heart line—weakness of the legs to be feared in the future.
Nails short (critical sense). The hand of a man gifted for medicine
(in which he would certainly have succeeded). But also the hand of
a writer (some of the fingers spatulate). Result ability for documentary
work.
Union of the lines of the Heart and the Head—timidity, lack of
self-confidence, physical crisis towards the 20th year, which will recur
towards the age of 55 under the shape of a loss of vitality which, how
ever, may be avoided by preventive means.
On the whole a good hand of slow, difficult, but certain ascent (on
account of the existence ofa line ofthe Sun).
. . . And now may we say that this hand, giving correctly in every
detail the above pycno-medical portrait, is that of the writer of our
Introduction. We assert that the young and famous chiromancer had
never before seen the writer of the introduction to this Encyclopaedia.
Those who know him as poet, essayist and novelist will be surprised
at such a correctness down to the smallest details.
Wc should therefore like to see, as was done at the third International
Congress of Experimental Psychology (1928), of which Mr. Muchery
himself was one of the organisers, that Chirology should be applied by
heads of institutions and by doctors, for it would in the most interesting
manner give them information about the persons committed to their
care.
192 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
CHAPTER IV
G r a p h o l o g y
I
General—Ancient and Modernised
G r a p h o l o g y is the study of the relations existing between the hand*
writing of a person and his character. It is supported by observations
more slender than those of Physiognomony. Its conclusions are
therefore less radical, but thanks to the progress made, they are never
theless sufficiently sure for it to be classed henceforth amongst the
sciences, and to be studied by people who make all possible reserves
concerning the divinatory arts. And yet it has a connection with these
in the sense that, by determining the tendencies which are subtly in
scribed in the written forms, it joins with them in the logical foretelling
of fate and can consequently assist in the establishment of a psycho-
predictive or psycho-diagnostic portrait.
Just as there are as many physiognomies as there are individuals,
so there are as many kinds of writing as there are kinds of people. “And
if the physiognomy,” said Paul Barbe,1 “ which is so very instructive,
deceives us sometimes, because it is easy to make up one’s face according
to the circumstances, yet the movements, which are instinctive ana
entirely spontaneous, cannot lead us into error.”
But still it is necessary th at we should have for our analysis a
writing which itself is not disguised. Let us therefore say at once that
in order to be able to form an opinion it is absolutely necessary to have
before us a sincere writing, not a draft or a few words hastily written,
not some writing in pencil (the pencil has not the sensitiveness of the
pen), not a postcard where one is compelled to write the lines close
together (the spacing between the lines, as will be seen, is of interest
in graphology), not a laboured and constrained letter, sent perhaps
to a superior, not the copy of a document, where the feelings of tne
copyist are of necessity alien to its context. The best thing is to have
a letter written on unlined paper, written without the author knowing
1 Telle tcriture, tel earaeUre (Jules Roufl, publisher).
193
194 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
that it would be studied from the point of view with which we are
dealing, a letter written spontaneously and in such a manner th at it
truly reflects the natural state of mind of its author.
In any case the fact that a writing is disguised does not esbape the
acute expert. For even if the shape habitually given to the letters
is falsified, or their slope (by making upright a usually slanting writing)
is altered, yet some details will soon disclose the fraud to the practised
graphologist, and he will, and with good reason, not express an opinion
on this dishonest disguise, any more than a physiognomist would give
an opinion as to the true expression of an actor on the stage.
What is the use of Graphology ? Even if it were only to give you
information as to the person from whom you receive a letter, whether
on business, from a new friend, distant relative, or desired object of our
love, would it not be a great boon to know something of his tempera
ment, to guess his tendencies, so as to be put on our guard or to
accept his sympathy? But there is more than this, we repeat—to
fuess the temperament of a person, does it not mean foreseeing what
e will do, what may happen to him, what the future has in store for
him ?
Having said this, let us recall in a few lines that from the earliest
times the appearance of the handwriting struck prudent people. With
them it was but intuition, and the reasoned study of writing was not
to be started till our century. But Aristotle already claimed th at he
could define the soul of people by their way of writing, and when
Suetonius noticed that tne Emperor Augustus did not separate his
words, he came to the conclusion that he neglected the detail for the
sake of the vast whole. Later Goethe became much interested (in
what subject was this great genius not interested ?) in these psycholo
gical curiosities. As early as 1622 Camillo Baldi wrote a small
Latin book about them called De Signis ex Epistolis. Lavater studied
them. The German Heuze erected a system on which unfortunately
he committed nothing to writing.1
The true promoter of scientific Graphology is the Abb£ Michon *
a preacher and novelist of Corr&ze (1806 to 1881), and the first serious
book on the subject is that which he published in collaboration with
Desbarolles. *
Since then important books have been published by Cr£pieux-
Jamin, * Varinard,4 Raymond, * R. de Salberg,7 A. de Rochetal,8
' In 1016 a smallbook was published without author's name, but attributed to Hocquart:
The Art of Judging Characters of Men ’-y their Writing, full of originalsketches.
* Wemastnot, however,forgetthatasearlyas 1830theAbbeFlandrinbegan to systematise
G R A P H O L O G Y 195
etc., and numerous popular works. Graphological studies are likewise
found in the general books on the divinatory arts, such as the one by
Jules dc Grandpr^.1
And all are agreed that there is a close connection between the
different parts of the body, that they are animated by the same mind.
I t is the body which produces the arm, the arm the hand, the hand the
fingers. All movements receive their impulse from the mind (we mean
by this for the moment temperament, character), and it follows that
the mind reveals itself in the movement. And among all movements
there arc none so varied as those of the hand and the fingers.
And does not the same phenomenon lead us to similar conclusions
in art ?
Does not the temperament of a painter reveal itself in his pictures ?
Some occultists even claim that it would be possible to deduce from the
pictures of a painter not only his character but also his physique,
th at the elegance of Raphael, the strength of Rubens, the clear brown
complexion of Holbein, the ruddy face of Largillgre are found in their
work. The brush also is a pen which indicates the man.
And after all what is writing but a drawing? A drawing which
speaks. And what it says has two meanings, the meaning deliberately
put into the context, and the meaning unconsciously put into the
outward shape of the context, that is to say the graphism.
Before passing on to practical graphology, let us relate some
anecdotes which show the usefulness of tnis beautiful science.
Here is one which comes from the Memoirs of the Comte Horace
de Viel Castel, that evil but witty tongue of the reign of Napoleon III.
At the time of the betrothal of Mile, de Duras with the Marquis
de Custine, the Duchess de Duras had one day in her drawing room
the young couple, the Comte de Nieuwerkerke, Baron Humboldt and
a few other guests. Graphology was talked about, and Humboldt
claimed that he could from the writing of people recognise their
character. The Duchess suddenly handed him a letter and asked
what he thought of the writer.
Our scientist looks, examines, thinks, and begins to hold forth.
He shows point by point that the author of the letter can only be
bizarre, corrupt, of whom in short he drew an atrocious portrait without
noticing th at the Duchess, much annoyed, tried all she could to interrupt,
or at least to soften the merciless verdict which dealt with the aspiring
Marquis himself—who was present at the charge 1
The marriage was broken off. Custine married Mile, de Courtomer
and became the sad type whom everyone knows. The solemn German
had not made a mistake.
1 The Art of Predicting the Future (Fayard,publisher). Anydesired documentation on this
particularart will aho be found in the Uietory ofGraphology of Emilio do Vara.
196
M. Michon tells how he was asked by a worthy man aged 40 to
examine his writing, in which the famous Abbd discovered an excessive
melancholy, obvious loyalty, but also a heartrending lack of energy.
His correspondent wanted his opinion, being on the one hand a bachelor
very anxious to m any a certain young lady of 25 with whom he was
much in love, and being on the other nand obsessed with the desire
to go to Paris and start in business. The graphologist did not fail
to advise him to give up his commercial intentions, as he was too naif
and not sufficiently strong willed, and also to abandon his matrimonial
plans relating to a woman who was too young and whom he would
make unhappy. The good man took the advice, being thus saved
from the double risk of compromising his fortune and his domestic
happiness.
A police officer friend of ours owed to Graphology one of the
successes of his career. Some money had been stolen in a house, and
no due made the finding of the culprit possible. Having however
noticed some blotting paper on which a note, not signed, had been
blotted, and the master and mistress of the house having stated that
they had had no opportunity of writing for three days, he examined
the few lines written by reading them on the spot in a looking-glass,
and described the probable character of the w riter; the description
corresponded with the son who, on being questioned, became troubled
and finally with tears admitted his th en and the name of the young
woman for whose pleasure he had committed it, and with whom he
had just fixed up a meeting to bring her the proceeds.
In conclusion let us be ultra-modem and copy this extract from a
newspaper of the 15th April, 1925:—
“ Let us watch ouz writing! This obviously becomes necessary nowthat
several American Life Assurance Societies refuse to decide the premium to
be paid on death before having a specimen of the writing of the assured.
Dr. Broud Kurt, who was the promoter of this new decision, claims that
their clients must be divided into three classes, according to the Bize of the
letters which they write.
Those in group 1 will disappear nine years after the signing of their
policies, those of the secondgroup 25 years after, and those of the third group
50 yean after.
Figures given haphazard, you say 1 In principle one might be inclined
to believe it. But what is exceedingly disturbing is that statistics drawn up
from the assured who have died proved Dr. Kurt entirely right.”
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
G R A P H O L O G Y 197
II
Method
Some graphologists have tried to analyse the whole of the alphabet
letter by letter, both as to the capitals and the small letters. This
method has the double defect of being too fastidious and too detailed.
I t proves badly by wanting to prove too much. The more so as the
same person, even sincerely, forms the same letters differently in the
course of a page. In this Encyclopedia where we guard against
charlatanism, giving facts and ideas only by way of reference and
with all reserve, we maintain that in Graphology as in all the other
arts called divinatory we must exaggerate nothing; that it is better
to find in it only hints, sometimes very sure, but sometimes also some
what vague, which must be taken into consideration only so far as
they appear to corroborate each other.
Wc think therefore that in Graphology it is necessary and sufficient
to stu d y :—
1. The general appearance of the writing.
2. The appearance of the letters.
3. The secondary appearances (dots, lines, terminations, paragraphs, etc.).
4. The influences which may modify the writing (health, age, nationality,
etc.).
I t is under these four heads th at we shall divide our remarks, giving
or adding to them synoptic forms. And in this connection also let
us note th at if these tables arc convenient, they run the risk of having
a kind of dogmatic look against which we warn the reader. He must
remember th a t other signs may seem to contradict them ; here also,
therefore, it is an average which we have to look for, according to the
great occult law of results.
Before going fully into the subject, two words more, as to the
graphic signs and as to the style of the writer.
A graphic sign may be simple, for instance the return hook of the
M. I t may also be complex, if for instance this hook, already significant,
is in addition club shaped.
The more frequent and well defined a sign is, the more intensity
it reveals in the quality or the defect which it expresses.
Generally speaking, each writing has one or more dominants. I t
is well to be able to ascertain them. Often they jum p to the eye
and form a guide for the remainder of the researches.
In the same way the quality of the style, dear or confused, frank
or reticent, the syntax, the spelling, enable us at once to see if we are
dealing with an ignorant or an educated person, a frank or an insincere
being, an intelligent man or an idiot. This is not yet pure graphology,
but no one would deny that this preliminary study prepares for it by
giving the judgment hints for its subsequent examination.
The following is a table of results drawn up by J. Crdpieux-Jamin:—
198 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
The “ t ” weakly crossed ..
Large lines of the pen
Very sloping writing
Large lines of the pen
Upward lines
Snort endings
Restless writing
Sloping letters
Clear and harmonious writing
Rapid writing
Wnting barely sloping
Very eloping writing
Closed angles.......................
Sober writing
Harmonious writing ..
Hiring writing
Writing very sloping ..
Letters close together
Curves .......................
“ N ” written like “ U ”
Writing sloping a little
Writing very sloping ..
“ T " not crossed
Rounded writing
Serpentine writing
Words getting smaller
Backhand writing
Re-entering hooks
Very sloping writing
Long “ T ” crossing
Very sloping writing
Sign of self-satisfaction.
Re-entering hooks
“ T ” crossing sword shaped..
Signs of pride.......................
Rounded lines
Very sloping writing ..
Weak will
Imagination ..
Great sensitiveness
Imagination ..
Ardour.
Economy
Agitation
Sensitiveness ..
RESULTS
| Cowardice.
1-Lack of judgment.
j-Love of gambling.
Clear intellect..
Quick ideas ..
Moderate sensitiveness
j-Penetration.
Sensitiveness ..
Firmness.
Approbation ..
Intelligence ..
Ardour, ambition
Sensitiveness ..
Intuition
Gentleness
Benevolence ..
Sensitiveness ..
Sensitiveness ..
Lack of will-power
Gentleness
Supple mind ..
Delicacy
Dissimulation
Egoism
Passion
Liveliness
Sensitiveness ..
Vanity
| Balanced sensitiveness.
jsiight vanity.
}Lack of positivism
(weathercock).
j Devotion.
}Laziness and unhappi
ness.
Theft and lying.
j Injustice.
Satire
Pride
Gentleness, weakness
Sensitiveness, passion conscience.
G R A P H O L O G Y 199
Qniet writing.......................
Bounded writing
Light and graceful writing ..
Sloping writing.
“ T ” weakly crossed
" T ” crossed long
Sloping writing
Fine w ritin g .......................
“ T ” crossed long
Sloping writing
Heavy writing or with thick
s tro k e s ........................
Words (getting smaller
Serpentine writing..................
Quiet mind
Gentleness
Delicacy
Sensitiveness ..
Weak will-power
Vivacity
Sensitiveness ..
Impotence
Impotence
Vivacity
Strength
Delicacy
Suppleness of mind
RESULTS
11Patience.
.j-Timidity.
.|spitefulneaa.
[Very bad temper.
11Diplomacy.
m
General Appearance of Writing
This appearance relates t o :—
(a) The margination;
(b) The direction and the spacing of the lines;
(o) The spacing of the letters and the words;
(d) The height of the letters;
(e) The movement, the clearness, the legibility of the writing;
(/) The joining of the letters between each other, and even of the wordB
to each other.
(a) The margination of a page is the first thing which strikes the
eye, but too great importance must not be attached to it.
No doubt graphologists tell us that a page without margins or
paragraphs indicates avarice; an equal margin both sides, nicely
framing the page, indicates order and harmony ; a normal and regular
margin on one side only denotes economy; a very wide one, generosity;
an increasing one, extravagance overcoming economy; a decreasing
one, economy overcoming extravagance.
B ut we must not exaggerate, and above all we must avoid somewhat
too easy deductions. We see people writing now with a margin,
now without, according to whether they have little or much to say.
We prefer putting our faith in the appearance, whether clean or
neglected, sometimes dirty, of the paper and the envelope. This
certainly indicates the care or otherwise which the writer bestows
200
on what he does. Spots, blotches, a sheet with a comer turned down
are not very flattering signs.
One observation: look rather at the end of the letter than a t its
beginning on which generally more care is bestowed. The end gives
a closer knowledge of the w riter; and if the writing, good at the start,
becomes scrawling, you may be sure that you are dealing with a nervy
or impatient person, who is apt to lack an orderly mind and persever
ance.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
tw b . K» —
-«■ — * * * * * " 7*
t-/.
Lin e s .
(6) The direction of the lines is much studied by graphologists.
1. A horizontal, rigid, straight writing denotes will-power, inflexi
bility.
The same, without too much rigidity—uprightness and persever
ance.
The same, soft—weak will-power, hesitation, irresolution.
2. A writing sloping upwards belongs to him who has dash and
ambition.
Sloping upwards but sloppy, it means stupid vanity.
If it climbs, it is no longer ambition, but exaltation.
8. A writing sloping downwards is a sign of pessimism, of melan
choly. 1
If it topples down in some way, the pessimism becomes mourn
fulness, gloominess.
And if, sloping downwards, it yet shews some signs of strength,
there is danger of discouragement, even of suicide.
4. A writing with concave lines denotes reaction against adversity,
an effort to fight against fate.
A writing with convex lines shews presumption, with easy ups and
downs.*
A sinuous serpentine writing—suppleness of mind, diplomacy.*
B ut of course it is possible for these various signs to be combined.
The spaces between the lines also have their value :—
Clear and regular—sane judgment.
Irregular—imagination predominating.
Very close—avarice.
Very wide—liberality.
For ourselves we do not think it necessary to place too much reliance
on this. Narrow spaces between lines may mean an abundance of
ideas desired to be incorporated in one page. Wide spaces mean
not so much liberality of the purse as liberality of the mind.
(c) The same remark applies to the spacing of the letters. It
may be th at a close writing denotes avarice; but in the end if this
sign is to be found, it must be as the result of all the graphic close
spacings—letters, lines and spaces between lines. And even then do
not let us be too much in a hurry !
According to this means of observation we find :—
Widely spaced letters—prodigal instincts.
Wide spaces with long end letters—generosity.
Widely spaced letters without hooks (a signof egoism)—disinterested
ness.
Widely spaced letters with hooks—interested generosity.
Widely spaced letters with large strokes of the pen—extravagance.
Normally spaced letters—wise economy.
Close writing must not be mistaken for small writing. Besides
it is possible to make small writing with large letters.
' Dr. Schwiedland given the following physiological reason, Being discouraged, tired, we
lean towards less fatiguing movements, towards letting the arm drop. On the other bond the
optimist is brave, and not afraid of the effort which “ w some way raises his hand and makes
the writing slope upwards.”
a For instance lim e, do Pompadour—constant but ineffectual effort. And she died young.
* Diplomacy, according to CMpieux-Jamin, is the result, rather than the sign, of delicooy
cd suppleness.
G R A P H O L O G Y 201
202
(d) In children’s writing the letters usually get larger towards
the end of the word; it has been noticed that in them, and also in
grown-ups, it is a sign of childishness.
I t follows that a gladiolated writing (sword-shaped, that is to say
getting smaller towards the end of the word) is a sign of the opposite
—cunning. And if the end of the words is sometimes illegible because
so small, or is merely a wavy line, we are entitled to think that the
cunning becomes dissimulation, even perfidy.
Writing of medium height and regular in this respect denotes
integrity, loyalty.
Irregular medium writing—versatility.
Writing getting larger and heavy—obstinacy, exaggeration.
Writing getting larger, but light—simplicity, credulity.
Writing getting larger and inharmonious—stupidity.
(e) The movement of the writing is in our opinion a subtle but sure
indication.
An excited person writes quickly, for vivacity is of the essence of
his movements.
A calm man writes steadily. And this is recognised at once.
A hasty and very quick writing—extreme activity.
If it is only quick, lack of reflection may be feared.
If it is merely brisk, it resembles the mind, active and ready.
The writing may also breathe strength, health. Then it is called
dynamogenious.
The calm writing of which we spoke above may be soft like the
writer.
Careless writing indicates thoughtlessness; if hesitating, indecision;
if trembling, fatigue. But here we fall into too easy assimilations.
Much to be preferred is the information conveyed by a clear and
distinct writing, the daughter of mental balance, to th at conveyed by
a confused, tangled, in one word bizarre, writing, the daughter of an
odd mind.
Legibility may be rapid and easy in frank, brisk and honest
characters.
I t may also exist, but slow like their thought, which accentuates
tiie sign of honesty.
Illegible but equal—an ardent, precipitate, impulsive nature.
Illegible but pointed, the words getting smaller—cunning, dissimu
lation, inscrutability.
(/) The joining of letters and words gives information to the
graphologist from the psychological standpoint th at the intuitive
creator of ideas puts these down without connection, whereas the
deductive type carries out, deduces, reasons, hence connects.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
From this point of view we therefore have two kinds of writing,
the detached, cut, and the connected. If we raise this observation
to the ethnographical level, so as to give it a striking confirmation, we
find that the Oriental who is contemplative, has a detached writing,
and th at the Occidental, who is practical, and acts, has a connected
writing.
The following are the main differences in this graphological scheme :
A writing entirely disconnected denotes a taste for paradox—if
less so, a taste for theorising, intuition.
If only the first letter of the word is disconnected—intuition followed
by realisation.1
The connected writing, as we have said, belongs to the deductive
type.
If even the words are joined together—excess of deductiveness,
sophistry.
Writing with an equal number of letters disconnected and an equal
number connected—good mental balance.
More letters detached than connected—ideas predominate.
Less letters detached than connected—realisation predominates.
G R A P H O L O G Y 203
IV
Appearance of the Letters (Capitals)
The simplest means of making ourselves understood would seem
to be to draw up a ta b le:—1
2
*
4
5
6
7
8
1. Simple capitals, well traced, or resembling small letters—well
developed intellect.
2. Ungraceful and awkward capitals—poor intellect.
8. Graceful capitals, with harmonious curves descending below
the line—taste, elegance, aesthetic sense.
4. Capitals resembling print—aesthetic sense, love of form.
5. Capitals with many flourishes and curves—pretension, ostenta
tion.
6. Capitals resembling figures—methodical people who reason
from exact premises.
7. Dashing capitals—trenchant characters.
8. Capitals very long as compared with the following small letters
—pride. Capitals low and small—modesty or dissimulation.
1 “ In writings which have all the letters connected, there are some which have the first
letter cleanly disconnected, and I have found that this sign corresponded with brains rich in
dednetiveness, but which yet had an initial movement towards intuition ” (Abbf Michon).
204 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
9. Capitals closely written —timidity. Capitals very large and open
—bluff.
10. Capitals large at foot—practical sense. Capitals large on the
top—idealism or vanity.
11. Capitals high up “ as if on stilts”—self-sufficiency, vanity.
12. Capital underlining the following letters—self-complacency.
Capital covering the following letters—protecting pride.
18. Capital ending towards the left—fight with oneself. Capital
ending towards the right—independent spirit.
14. Very large capitals—pretentiousness. Absence of capitals,
modesty or material mind.
15. Hook at beginning—acquisitiveness. Hook at both ends—
avarice.
16. Capital ending in backward hook—egoism. Capital connected
with the small letter following—self-forgetfulness.
The letter M in particular attracts attention by its variations:—
17. The M with three downstrokes, called aristocratic, denotes
a person of the cultured world. The M with two downstrokes, called
popular, denotes the contrary, or if it is found among, intellectuals,
all failures write it thus. If very high and very broad—boasting,
self-confidence.
18. The first downstrokc higher than the others—pride of com
parison. Downstrokes equal size—no ambition. If like the last—
desire for approval.
19. Like a down staircase—pessimism. Like an upward staircase
—vulgar ambition.
20. Joining of strokes rounded, angular, or half-way u p :—1,
Gentleness; 2, Obstinacy; 8, Keen acquisitiveness.
V
Appearance of the Letters—Small
We propose to study them from the following points of view :—
Dimensions, direction, shape, arrangement and plastic, openness,
soberness, slope, upstrokes ana downstrokes.
A. Writing wide—courage, openness, daring.
„ sinuous and supple—the parvenu.
„ rigid and firm—great daring.
„ high and upright—pride, even arrogance.
„ high and sloping—compassionate pride.
„ high with backward hooks—pride, disdain.
,. narrow—timidity if it is high; or avarice if it is small and
compact.
G R A P H O L O G Y
Qba pbo l o o io a x . Ta b l b —Ca h t a ib .
2 0 5
1
CP 8
2
3
A
TH ■
H
~
'T
>
6
6 3 & L
.
Jp * , ‘
J
4 -A 'P t o c p “
? “ J& - vCC
1
> r ,s
/ O 14
\Ja/fC4
15
C
S
A
16
17
C
P
T
L dJ/jp
IS
4% /m j {
19 2°
c / ^
Writing not wide but high—largeness of views, knowledge of one’s
own strength.
,, high and wide—love of display.
„ high and narrow—constraint.
„ high and alert—great imagination.
„ high and slow—proud aspirations.
„ small—conning, minutia, sometimes avarice.
„ small and harmonious—delicacy of mind.
„ small and harmonious, the crossing of the “ T ” ending in a
point—caustic character.
„ small and harmonious with last letter ending in a point—
cunning.
„ small and inharmonious—stinginess.
„ 8mall and inharmonious with regular pointing—mania.
„ small and inharmonious, close and compact—
avarice.
„ small, low and flat—timid humility, no breadth of mind.
But it must not be forgotten that long-sighted people write large
and short-sighted people small. Therefore, before coming to a decision,
we must study other graphological elements.
A thick writing denotes material instincts, greediness, sensuality.
A thin writing denotes an absence of voluptuousness.
A firm writing shows energy and temperament.
B ut firm and defaced—coarseness, brutality.
A light writing (less firm than the thin) denotes delicacy, weakness,
a somewhat sickly nature.
B. Let us pass on to the direction of the letters. I t is based on the
distinction between the strong, the active, the go-ahead and the hesitat
ing, the delaying in everything. The former have been called
dextrogyrous and the latter sinistrogyrous, because the former slope
their writing towards the right, the others towards the left or backwards.
If a dextrogyrous writing slopes towards the right strokes which
should normally slope towards the left, this denotes in its author
activity, intelligence, altruism.
If on the other hand a sinistrogyrous writing slopes towards the
left strokes intended for the right, we infer from this that its author
is slow, hesitating, inactive. Thus the head of a business will know
beforehand the character of him who applies for a post by letter.
C. Shape. This is either rounded or angular.
A rounded writing denotes an easy temper, gentleness, sometimes
softness and indecision.
Rounded and very sloping—passion leading perhaps to a lack of
conscience.
Rounded, sloping and connected—self-abandonment.
206 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
G R A P H O L O G Y 207
Rounded, sloping and upward—devotion.
Rounded, sloping and calm—patience, and in the case of soft writing,
laziness.
An angular writing indicates a peevish obstinate character.
If it is angular and sloping—weak sentimentality.
Angular, erect and alert—quarrelsome mind.
Angular, erect and stiff—malevolence.
There are writings which are so to speak square—they can bend,
but rule if necessary.
D. There are also orderly careful writings. Others are disorderly
and scrawling. And they are so consistently or intermittently, indi
cating constancy or inconstancy of instinct.
Needless to say a “ made ” handwriting has no graphological value.
B ut there are pleasing, beautiful, harmonious writings, indicating good
taste, and unpleasant, ugly inharmonious writings which indicate the
contrary.
E. We do not think too much ought to be made of the openness
of letters (a, o, g, q, etc.), of which the gamut is as follows:—
Lettersvery open—thoughtless confidence, indiscretion.
„ open at the top—expansiveness, frankness.
„ open backward—expansiveness towards strangers.
„ open at the bottom—hypocrisy, dishonesty.
„ open irregularly—discretion.
„ generally closed—reserve.
„ hermetically closed—inscrutability.
„ with curves—concentration.
„ with curves above—open backwards—hypocritical expansiveness.
F. Graphologists also claim to read in the soberness or the flourishes,
in the one a sign of gravity, in the other a sign of vanity, going as far
as coquetry or silliness. A dry writing denotes a sense of truth and the
abstract. Severity makes a writing dry, angular and rigid.
G. The slope of the writing gives the following shades:—
Sloping backwards—dissimulation, reserve, distrust.
Upright—strength of character and judgment.
Sloping very slight—sensitiveness of the heart, but calm maintained.
Well sloping—tenderness, the heart dominating the head.
Very sloping—almost lying down—excessive sensitiveness.
Varied sloping—struggle between the heart and the head.
208
H. The downstrokes and upstrokes have been the subject mat
of various observations:—
Rounded and slight—tenderness.
Bounded and tuck—devotion.
Angnlar and light—egoism, dryness of heart.
Angular and thick—coarse passion.
Upper downstroke larger than lower—intellectual activity.
Lower downstroke larger than upper—physical activity.
Downstrokes well proportioned—mental and physical balance.
Tail of downBtroke curved—sprightliness.
Downstrokesshort—dear mind and sane judgment.
„ long—lively imagination.
„ excessively long—exalted imagination.
„ crossed—obstinacy.
„ with curves or little hooks at bottom—verbiage.
Downstroke connected with the small letter following—sociability.
The small D, like the capital M, has attracted special attention.
It has all sorts ofshapes, ofwhichthe followingare the principal:—
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
<
L J a., r > $ y* ^ &
A 2 S A 'S 6 7 0 9 t o «
1. Copybook type—simplicity, even insignificance.
2. Going straight up—ideal aspirations.
3. Inclined to the left—
intellectuality.
4. Covering the preceding letters—struggle against imagination.
5. Going below tne line—egoism.
6. Thrown forward to the right—independence.
7. With right hand curve—imagination.
8. Curved with stroke across—lively imagination.
9. With repeated curves—exaltation.
10. W ith flourishes—coquetry, pretentiousness.
11. Connected with the following small letter—sequence of ideas.
Wc repeat once more with Mr. Barbe himself—graphologists have
multiplied the signs to such an extent that in the end they have spoilt
the interest in the signs. Each new expert tries to find something
fresh. Let us be careful. We will, however, give the chief discoveries
recently made or churned to have been made, and we shall close our
study of the small letters. Here again a table would be convenient:—
209
1. Greek letters—some vanity.
2. Small “ b ” with convex back—benevolence.
3. Letters finished afterwards—love of detail.
4. Curves descending below the line—keenness for money,
5. The “ m” and the “ n ” curved at top—firm character.
6. The same letters curved at the bottom—gentleness, amiability.
7. The letters “ p,” “ j ” etc., taller than the otherletters—clear imagination.
8. The “ j,” “ g,” etc., crossed in the middle of the downstroke—domestic
tyranny.
9. The “ v ” going up a little higher than the following letter—sense of duty.
10. The “ x ” like a St. Andrew’s cross, with straight fines—fighting spirit.
G R A P H O L O G Y
A.L. £ (? . 1 'rn.Ti i4 c.w £ 1 X
-i z a s 6 7 r a ' -*
o
Let us stop here so as not to get fanciful. And rather, returning
to the main line of our observations, let us say th at the general appear
ance gives excellent indications, much better than these too precise
details.
Yes, it is correct that the courageous man, with broad and daring
gestures, will have a writing of the same kind, that the timid man,
who makes himself small in his life, will write closely, th at a person
with broad views will have a tall writing, whereas the meticulous will
ding to the details of a writing which will almost always be very small.
I t is correct th at a broad writing denotes appetites, and th a t a fine
writing marks delicacy, etc.
In the same way there are writings which reveal clearness, frank
ness or dissimulation, aristocratic and common writings, etc. I t
seems to us th at we must not try to go too far in reading a soul with
certainty through some shape of a letter or other sign. This might
lead us into mistakes, and by insisting on it into charlatanism.V
I
VI
Secondary or Accessory Appearances o f Writing
These consist of the accents, the crossings, the dots and the punctua
tion, the initials and finals, the signatures and flourishes, the erasures.
A. I t is logical, if not always correct, to say that order shews itself
in placing accents regularly, but the contrary may be the result of mental
super-activity.
210 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Accents placed rather high suggest good activity; those which
are heavy and placed low indicate less high instincts.
The accent with a hook would indicate a restless mind. The
circumflex accent drawn in one line betokens mental activity.
B. The logical double dash framing a secondary phrase indicates
a cultured person.
Too many words underlined attract the eye with an annoying pre
sumption.
The crosses of the T have been much observed on account of their
amazing variety, and the following table has been drawn u p :—
Length:—
None (that is absence of cross)—ill-will.
1. Weak—mediocre will power.
2. Long—vivacity, impatience.
Normal—good will.
Resemblance:—
Dissimilar in the same writing—inconstancy.
Cross always alike—constant will-power.
Height:—
3. The cross low—submissive character.
Half way up—calm thoughtful will.
Bather high—strongwill.
4. Above the “ t ”—domineering character.
6. Making a curve above the “ t ”—oppressive will.
Thickness:—
6. Fine—vivacity of mind.
7. Strong—strong will.
8. Heavy—violent temperament.
9. Thicker at one end—coarse instincts.
Place:—
10. Behind the “ t ”—hesitation.
Crossing the “ t ”—decision.
11. In front of the “ t ”—initiative.
Shape:—
12. Very thick at the end—powerful will.
13. Very thick at the beginning—enthusiasm.
14. Getting thinner—aggressive will.
15. Like a harpoon at the end and upward—supple tenacity.
16. Like a harpoon at the end and downward—tenacity without supple
ness.
17. like a harpoon at the beginning, tenacious resistance.
G R A P H O L O G Y 211
Direction:—
18. Rising at an angle from the bottom—contradictory mind.
19. Rising from the middle—disputing mind.
20. Rising in a curve—unaggressive quibbling mind.
21. Rising in a rigid line—aggressive quibbling mind.
22. Going down in a rigid line—obstinacy.
Curved lin e s:—
23. Coneave curve—gentle cheerfulness.
24. Curve thicker in the middle—love of material pleasures.
25. Curve like a whiplash—carelessness.
26. Curve like a lasso—seductive will-power.
Backward curves:—
27. Angular—obstinacy.
28. Angular and long—strong obstinacy.
29. Ending at the bottom in a curve—patience.
30. Returning curve and long—pigheadedness.
These types of crossings are simple. But in most cases the writing
shows various combinations of these types. I t is for the expert grapho
logist to find a solution.
C. There is a very old saying—putting the dots on the “ i’s,” which
means, be exact. The dot on the “ i ” has become a graphological
element which has the following variations:—
Absence of dots—negligence.
Dots placed regularly and well—careful orderly mind.
Dot to the right of the “ i quick mind.
Dot to the left of the “ i "—slow thinking.
Light dot placed high—imagination, even mysticism.
Light dot placed low—practical even earthly mud.
Dot accentuated—firmness, sensuality.
212
Point lengthening into an accent—ardent nature.
Thick ana heavy dot—coarse instincts.
Dot like a light comma—mental activity.
Dot like a heavy comma—diligent mind.
8qnare thick dot—materialism.
Point connected with the following small letter—great enthusiasm.
So much for the dot crowning the “ i.” 1 Now for the dot ending
the sentences:—
If it is always lacking—lack of distrust.
If it follows the signature—distrust.
Heavy or light—materialism or spiritualism.
Punctuation likewise gives information:—
Correct punctuation—order and logic.
Bad punctuation—intellectual activity and lack of distrust.
Light or heavy exclamation mark—spiritualism or materialism.
Repeated exclamation mark—enthusiasm.
Graceful and light question mark—aesthetic taste.
Heavy and badly made question mark—lack of taste.
Repeated question mark—mental exaltation.
Dots or dashes—if they are all over the place—romanticism.
D. Study of first and last letters of words:—
1. Small hook at the beginning of a capital—acquisitiveness.
Curve like the handle of basket—reserve and concentration.
Large initial curve—dash, gaiety.
Rigid line at the start—combativenesa and even contradictoriness.
2. Last letter cut short, mediumor long—economy, wisdom, extravagance.
Rising, curved—religiosity, gratitude.
Rising stiff—susceptibility, temper.
Horizontal—affection, courtesy.
Descending—practical mind.
Drooping—keenness for money.
Turning to the left—self-conflict.
Last letter thickening upward—strong will.
Last letter forming an acute angle—peevishness.
Last letter like a rising harpoon—supple tenacity.
Last letter like a falling harpoon—tenacity without diplomacy.
Last letter curved—gentleness.
Very large last letter—exaltation, ostentation.
Last letter flying into the air—quibbling.
1 Albert de Itochetal, editor of the Graphological Review, is amongst those for whom the
dote on the u i “ have much'importanCe. In his hook {Graphology Put Wilhin the Reachof All)
he says that tho accentuation of a dot is the accentuation of an idea.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
E .T h c signature in our opinion has much more value than the
majority of tne other graphological signs.1 I t is a very sure sign of
personality—it becomes its seal. Hence the number of types of
signatures and flourishes is enormous; there are almost as many
as there are persons. Yet they have been classified (see table witn
figures given).
A signature without flourish belongs to mediocrity; but if it is
th at of an intellectual person it reveals a superior being to whom his
G R A P H O L O G Y 213
7 ^
3
5s£&
)
7
CO
i o ^ 1 8
1 4 " 1 6 — >
name suffices because it contains the whole of him. Many men of
frnius and high position, rulers of the mob, have neglected the flourish,
or instance Corneille, Victor Hugo.
1. A signature followed by a dot denotes a prudent cautious nature,
afraid of opinion. For instance the signature of Thiers.
2. A signature followed by a stroke denotes the distrustful man
who is on nis guard and plays all his trumps. For instance Mirabeau.
8. A signature ending in a downward stroke like a sword betokens
* Prom the commercial, judicial,anthropometrical pointof view,say* Professor Raymond.,
the signature is of the greatest importance, and therefore could not be missed by Graphology
Without this peculiarity the -whole economic life would suffer; it is the talisman against forgers,
and he who ventures to forge a signature carries bis condemnation in his own band.
214
the defensive type. If the end is like a club, the resolute defensive;
if like a harpoon, violently defensive.
4. A flourish after the signature ending in a point denotes the
aggressively militant (Robespierre). Yatagan-shaped—the combative
fighter (Henri Rochefort), vertical or almost—brain predominant
(Pasteur), with signs of will-power if it thickens, of combativeness if
it gets thinner, of tenacity if like a harpoon, etc.
5. The shield-like flourish (seeming to protect the name and then
drooping) denotes the courageous, but with a shade of prudence.
6. A plain line underlining the name—pride of one's own personality
(Barr&s).
7. A back stroke without curve—defensive, grudge-bearing.
8. Stroke underlining with little hook a t end—pride mixed with
skill.
9. Back stroke with several angular return lines—energetic vin
dictive fighter.
10. Backstroke like lightning or zigzag—active and quick self-
willed.
If the zigzags are rounded or angular—gentleness or rigidity in
such will-power.
11. The back stroke forming gentle curves is th at of the cheerful
type, of the good-natured.
12. Lasso with several knots—great skill (F. Arago).
If the lassos cross each other—divided from the signature—spirit
of intrigue.
18. If the lasso takes the shape of a corkscrew—cunning.
14. The flourish like a knotted necktie is th at of tact, of skill in
negotiations.
15. A cobwebby flourish—industrial or commercial ability.
A flourish like railings—distrust.
16. A flourish almost completely surrounding the name tells of
an egotism which insists on satisfaction.
If the flourish completely surrounds the name and encloses it—
the life is neither expansive nor bright.V
I
I
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
V II
Summary
Many have tried to sum up the art of Graphology, to prepare con
venient tables. F. Clerget gave quite a good summary in a little book
called How to Read in the Thought. Here it is, agreeing roughly with
the detailed data which we have given:—
215
W riting.—Accentuated—despotism. Lengthy—suppleness. Angular—
strength, energy. Sloping—ambition, dash. Well spaced—method, order,
judgment. Curved—weakness, gentleness. Downward—discouragement,
melancholy. Hard to read—dissimulation. Like strokes of a sword—
ardour, courage, struggle. Wide—extravagance. Narrow—meanness.
Finn—integrity, loyalty. Fine and close—carefulness, cunning, avarice.
Strong—passion. Getting smaller—cunning. Getting thicker—frankness,
naivety. Sloping—sensitiveness. Connected—calculation. Masterly—
nobility. Neglected—thoughtlessness, carelessness, laziness. Clear—
order, method. Sloping from right to left—feeling. Sloping from left to
right—resistance, revolt. Straight—reason. Small—carefulness. Large—
will-power, domination. Without end letters—economy. Serpentine—
cunning, lies. Thin—discretion, reserve. Level—calm, tranquillity.
Lines.—Sloping upwards—ambition. Sloping downwards—discouragement.
Sloping upwards and downwards—unequal character. Straight—order,
calm. Wide spaced—extravagance. Incoherent—restlessness, agitation.
Many on the page—economy, churlishness. Wavy—cunning, skill.
Words.—Rising—ardour. Drooping—fatalism. Widely spaced—extravagance.
Getting smaller—skill, irony. Getting bigger—confidence. Connected
together—assimilation, calculation. Many to the line—economy, avarice.
Few to the line—generosity. Without end letters—reserve, economy.
Letters.—With hooks—egotism, pride. Angular—personality. Rounded—
egotism. Disconnected—extravagance. Well proportioned—taste, poetry.
Disguised in themselves—cunning hypocrisy. Disproportioned—lock of
judgment. Closetogether—avarice. Weakand pointed—lack ofresolution.
Closed—reserve, lies. Last letters angular—obstinacy. Illegible—bizarre
character. Very faint—weakness. Unequal downstrokea—versatility.
Downstrokes disconnected—disorder. Open—candour, gossip. Wide—
imagination. Very heavy—pose.
Capitals.—Lower than the line—lack of taste. Too high—meanness. Large—
pride. Small—simplicity. Put instead of small letters—pride, egotism.
Harmonious—restraint, justness, taste.
Curves.—Exaggerated—imagination. Firm—daring. Soft—laziness. Numer
ous—kindness, gentleness.
Hooks.—On the capitals—egotism. Backward—egotism. Very marked—pride.
Hashes.—At the end of the lines—doubt, distrust. Hard and broken off—
pigheadedness. Getting thicker—strong will. Uncertain—timidity,
cunning. Dashing—vivacity, ardour. Dashing upwards—rashness.
Supple—kindness, gentleness.
Crossing of the " T.”—With angular backstroke—obstinacy. Short and
clear—resolution. Hooked—tenacity. Pointed—will-power, no consist
ence. Club shaped—obstinacy. Serpentine—will-power, suppleness.
In mesh—independent. Strong, with sudden stop—limited ideas.
Very faint—weak will. Long—vivacity. Misting—lack of will-power.
Placed high up—despotism. Long and strong—firmness, energy.
GRAPHOLOGY
216
Various.—Numerous angles—cold heart. Angles very acute—obstinacy.
End letters hooked—narrowness. End letters long—extravagance, large
views. Numerous flourishes—pride. Great movements of the pen—
imagination, exaltation. Decorations—self-sufficiency. Smallletters
printed—artistic sense. Dots missing—imprudence, excessive confidence.
No punctuation—thoughtlessness, imprudence. Signs accentuated—
intense abilities. Signs irregular—unequal abilities.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
V III
Influences which Modify the Writing
The influences, which are capable of deforming, of altering the
nature of the writing, are moral or physical.
They must be taken into account, and it will be seen at once how
difficult they make graphological decisions.
I t is certain that if one is pressed for time, if at the moment of
writing one is in a bad temper, if one has the kind of pen to which one
is not used, if one is preoccupied, saddened, or on the other hand
enthusiastic, the writing will show it.
Through adopting tne official style of writing esteemed by adminis
trations, the bureaucrat will end by losing his spontaneity to some
extent. In the same manner monks and nuns, soldiers, school pupils
all have a kind of uniform writing due to restraint. B ut as soon as
they are free from this restraint, their individual character reasserts
itself.
And then there is the nervous person whose writing gets jumpy
(more than it would normally be), the drunkard who makes it shaky,
the madman who makes it eccentric, etc.
Certain manual occupations make the hand heavy; on the other
hand the liberal professions give a great freedom. Lovers of the
aesthetic all have a harmonious writing
Age exerts an influence—the heavy, hesitating and impersonal
writing of the child gets lighter, firmer and personal. Towards the
age of twenty we generally have a writing. On the threshold of old
age the writing tends to get less firm and to shake.
The sex of the writer is also generally easily recognised. A woman’s
writing is usually light, rounded, sloping, with long end letters, very
long letters and in the whole thinner than a man’s which is firmer,
quieter, more connected.
I t would take too long to note all the influences which may alter
the writing—ink, pen, light, scat, paper, clothes, cold, etc.—and as
to the signs of the nationality of the writer, that would lead us too
far. Let us merely note th a t:—
The English writing is usually high, angular, with broken and badly
shaped lines.
The German writing is almost always regular, thoughtful, sloping.
The Slav (Russian or other) writing shows in its roundness and
disconnection the suppleness of these nations.
The Italian writing is harmonious, artistic, less energetic than the
Anglo-Saxon.
G R A P H O L O G Y 217
IX
Luck and Handwriting
Here is a small table, borrowed from Papus (the Book of Luck)
which, according with the data of the preceding pages, will show yo u :—
The signs ofgoodluck (therefore to be sought!—
Lines slanting upwards.
Crossing of the '*T ’’ high or upwards.
Letters connected and clear.
Wide margins.
The ‘o ’ and “ a ” open.
Dots on the “ i ” well marked.
The signs of bad luck (therefore to be corrected)—
lanes slanting downwards.
“ T ” crossing missing, too low or sloping downwards.
Letters disconnected and badly shaped.
Lack of margins.
The " o " and " a ” closed.
Dots on the “ i ” badly marked.
We make our reservations as to the margins, but a d d :—
To the signs ofgood luck:—
Round, regular, legible writing.
Writing without backward hooks.
Upright or slightly sloping writing.
To the signs of bad luck
Angular, squat or illegible writing.
Writing with backward hooks.
Backward or exaggeratedly sloping writing.
The explanation of this advice is neither occult nor extraordinary.
Those who have properly read the present chapter will have noticed
th at the writing corresponding to the signs of good luck is th a t of
218
optimistic, intelligent, frank, good persons, not egotistical or hypocritical;
tn at of the unlucky ones being also that of the pessimist, the man
without ideas, of weak will-power, insufficient reflection, egotistical,
coarse, hypocritical.
And the best means of succeeding in life has always been to have a
loyal, Arm, generous character, to be confident in one’s own power,
and not to undertake anything thoughtlessly or without the will to
carry through.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
X
Types o f Handwriting
Serious study of any science will lead to a particular manner of
classification. Thus we have seen chiromancers of repute make different
groupings of the various forms and styles of hands. In the same way
m Graphology Professor Raymond—to mention no others—has divided
handwritings into a certain number of types shown by the following
tab le:—
( ) The plebeian writing.—Coarse, heavy and gross. I t is th at of
the common people who do not like to hold a pen, and if they are
forced to do so, they put into it the coarseness of their mind which thinks
little and of their awkward hand.
( ) The practical writing.—That of doctors, underwriters, architects,
etc. The letters are very harmonious, connected, close, small, often
illegible.
(c) The aesthetic writing.—Lightly traced, with graceful curves.
Letters printed. The writing of musicians generally slopes upwards,
harmonious; that of painters has artistic and somewhat soft curves;
that of sculptors has disconnected letters, that of the actor flourishes,
some vanity, a tendency to the fanciful.
(d) The copybook writing.—That of the clerk. No idealism. A
dry, banal writing.
(e) The intellectual writing.—Medium height, moderate slope, calm
lines, regular punctuation, signature sloping upwards, the various
signs of order, thought and a laudable ambition.
(f ) The writing o f genius.—Superior harmony in a disjointed
writing, proof of an intuitive mind and a creative imagination.
Simplicity and clearness. No flourishes.
(g) The mixed writing.—I t is the writing of the soldier, aviator,
fencer, etc. Impatience, nervousness, end letters like a whip lash.
(ft) The rounded writing.—Gentleness, charm, kindness, sometimes
weakness.
(*) The angular writing.—Gravity, severity, courage, rigidity, some
times quibbling.
(j) The pathological writing.—I t shows impressive or expressive
derangements. I t is always odd. I t shows itself in various ways :—
shaking, sudden bursts, breaks, exaggerations, lines very wavy, etc.
The criminal has the signs of falseness and of coarseness, a sinistrogyrous
writing, enormous club-shaped letters, etc.
• • ♦ * •
Another method of classification has been suggested by Dr.
Schwiedland, based on the examination of the slopes, which he has
divided into six categories :—
G R A P H O L O G Y 219
i
Direction 1—vertical—cold and reserved natures.
Direction 2—continued sensitiveness, without passions.
Direction 3—passionate sensitiveness, but governed by will-power.
Direction 4—the will-power diminishes; sensitiveness gains the victory.
Directions—a susceptibility almost diseased.
Direction 6 (to the left of 1}—timidity, distimulation.
CHAPTER V
Ca r t o m a n c y
I
History of the Cards
The origin of the cards, at least according to Legend, is a story of
love:—
When Charles VI, King of France, began to feel the first signs of
approaching madness, he was loved by a young girl of great sensitive
ness called Odette, who devoted her life to him.
The first thought of this loving girl was to distract the thoughts
of her Prince. She was skilful to avoid the crises of terrible boredom
which tormented him, and sought games, songs, stories capable of
occupying the mind of the King. As there was much talk at th at time of
an invention which had come from the land of the Saracens and which
consisted of coloured cards by means of which all kinds of amusing
combinations could be arranged, she sent for a pack of this kind, and
asked a painter to decorate others similarly. The plan succeeded,
the royal lover had much pleasure, and in his lucid moments was able
to follow the combinations; it was seen that the crises which did him
so much harm became less frequent.
Legend—or if you prefer it a Chronicle of the period—adds that
a Saracen woman, having heard of the good influence which the game
had on the mind of the King, came one day to see Odette and offered
to complete her knowledge:—
“ You know how to arrange these cards so as to derive amusement
from them,” she said. “ I will teach you to arrange them so as to
learn a lesson from them.”
She took the cards and spread them on a table and began to tell
what their combinations revealed, just as if she were reading an open
book. Astonished and delighted, Odette bought her secret.
And since then, during seven centuries, the oracle of the cards has
been consulted by thousands and thousands of people.
220
C A R T O MA N C Y 221
This story, at bottom simple enough, had to become somewhat
complicated. I t so happened that Odette was unable to keep her
secret, and confided it, doubtless discreetly, to her companions; but
tongues move quickly, especially when some of them are in love.
Soon the whole Court Knew how to “ make the cards,” and crowds
came to the shop of the painter Jaquemin Gringonneur, the amiable
decorator of the little cards.
B ut certain fickle lovers were upset to find that the cards revealed
their infidelities. Under the pretext that the card game led to losses
of money, they obtained a royal edict which forbade their use.
Now a soldier of the name of La Hire resolved to obtain the repeal
of the edict by means of a tric k ; for he owed gratitude to the Saracen
* invention thanks to which he had learnt of the love of a lady whom,
without their oracle, he would not have dared to court.
He therefore asked Jaquemin to make a set of cards each of which
was to show a patriotic emblem. He got him to paint ladies which
were named Pallas the Goddess of Arms, Judith the great Jewess, Argina
the gentle fairy (in fact Odette herself), Rachel, the symbol of the
harsh Ysabeau. And also Kings, all brave and wise monarchs—
David, Caesar, Charlemagne, Alexander. And also daring fighting
men—Hogier, Lancelot, Hector, and . . . La Hire himself.
The stratagem succeeded. He extended it to the su its:—the dub
became the sword guard, the heart the tip of the cross-bow, the diamond
the iron of the arrow, the spade the tool of the same name which was
so useful in a siege.
This is the Legend—in which some give the name of Agnes Sorel
instead of th at of Odette.
But assuredly the history of Cards is not only much older, but quite
antique.
This is proved by the Taroc, the Egyptian Taroc of which we shall
speak later on, which is a kind of pack of cards, but a much more
complicated pack, with an entirely philosophical foundation, since the
Taroc is nothing but a symbolical expression of the hermetic sdence.
The Lydians, the Saracens—who called them Nights—knew the
cards and drew their omens, following their custom of always
reproducing by a picture a symbol of the happenings of the future
which all nations nave known.1
Nonetheless, it is in the 15th Centiuy—here Legend joins hands
with History—th at the cards took their present appearance (except
>This is proved by the fact that the Synod of Worcester in 1240 forbade clerks The Oamt
of the King and the Queen, that cards called naibi are mentioned in an Italian manuscript of
1200, that monastic statutes of 1337 proscribed the game of pagince, that a Castilian school
in 1387 likewise forbado cards.
222
during the Revolution, when they expressed republican laws and virtues).
Whether ancient or modem, they have always attracted curiosity,
study and interpretation, formerly by the Magi, now by the “ Fortune*
Tellers,” but also by more enlightened minds, cartomancers belonging
to the highest ranks of Occult Scientists.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
n
Are tee to believe the Cards f
In the Introduction an attempt to justify Cartomancy, or rather
a search for the mechanism of divination which it sets up, has been
found. I t is certain that the time will come when this mechanism
will be revealed. Up to now we can only vouch for the truth of
cartomancy by experience. The divinatory data thus supplied have
been looked upon as conclusive for hundreds of years by thousands
of people. W hat can reasoning do against this ?
Remember Josephine. Was it not a cartomancer who foretold to
her th at one day she would occupy a throne ? And when the mistress
of Bonaparte did occupy it, was it not a cartomancer who foretold
th at she would fall from it if she tried the dictator by her moods? The
same who, recalled later by the Empress who was afraid of the ship*
wreck of her fortunes, could only confirm her oracle—abandonment,
loneliness and tears ?
Remember the actress who, playing Carmen, alarmed her com*
panions in the wings by saying to them, “ During the card scene I
unwittingly drew the 7, 8 and 9 of spades one after the other; it is
a sign of death; woe is m e! ”—and died during the night.
This might be a proof of terrible auto-suggestion. That is to say
th at obsessed by the event, the unhappy woman might have exerted
all her destructive forces against all her vital forces, to the extent of
succumbing when the latter were defeated. Mystery 1
We need not mention a quantity of familiar cases. Everyone
knows some of his own.
By accident we read a number of the Ere NouveUe, and from the
always witty chronicle of Georges Pioch we extract this passage
which relates a personal recollection of the writer who one day was
in the Breton hamlet of Moulin de la Rive, near Morlaix, together
with Madame Caillaux, her daughter Germaine (who has since become
Madame Saulgeot), Mr. Pontana who was the secretary of Mr. Joseph
Caillaux, the painter Bloomfield, and two or three others.
To kill time, relates Pioch, his wife suggested to those present
that she should read their cards.
C AR T OMANC Y 223
“ When the turn of Madame Caillaux came to be informed by this game
which was as derisory as our fate, the cards said: He of whom you think
will be condemned but put at liberty immediately after his condemnation.
He will lose three of his best friends, and then his luck will change. A few
years later he will return to power.
“ Pascal Ccccaldi, Pontana and d’Estoumelles de Constant, who were
the best friends of Mr. Joseph Caillaux, are no more. And the condemned
man of the day is to-day our minister of Finance.” 1
Amongst the celebrated cartomancers we m ust mention Marie
Ambruget who foretold to Louis X IV the outcome ofthe battle ofDenain,
Lenormand, born a t Alengon in 1768, who died in 1848, and to whom
Gall had foretold th at she would become “ the first witch in Europe ”
(and in fact she made an enormous number of predictions which nave
come true). Amongst chiromancers survives the name of Fiasson, the
tailor of the Rue Saint-Honor^ whom the Duke of Orleans (the Regent)
used to consult, and of Moreau, much esteemed by the wives of soldiers
who, under the Empire, asked him for news of their husbands. He
used the grounds of coffee and the cards, but died poor unlike his
competitors, most of whom grew rich.
As for Lenormand, she worked mainly on Fridays, and in this con
nection it should be observed th at Tradition as a m atter of fact mentions
Fridays and Mondays as lucky days for reading the cards. Schwabergen
wrote in 1672 a book in Latin on Occult Sciences, in which he shews
that in addition there are favourable hours, and that no divinatory
operations (whether by cards or otherwise) should be undertaken when
it is too foggy, stormy, raining or windy. A calm sky appears to him
an essential condition. And after all it is not unreasonable to think
that at th at moment the operator is at the height of his occult powers.
Is Cartomancy always successful in its predictions ? By no means.
Side by side with the truth there are errors. Be it so. B ut neither
must we on the one hand imagine that the first woman who comes
along is able to “ read the cards ” and on the other hand demand from
her exact details, or accept them from her if given. In any case,
following the opinion of Paul Jagot and the writer of our introduction,
intuition, clairvoyance and lucidity are faculties which as yet are
barely known to Psychology or rather modern Hyperpsychics. The
true cartomancer, by unconsciously handling the arcana of the cards
or of Taroc, and in a kind of secondary state into which she gets by the
traditional ritual, fulfils psychical conditions of a special kind which
enable her to obtain a glimpse of the future, to lift the veil of the past,
to grasp some secrets of the present. Even he who makes a solution
' Caillaux, condemned by the High-Court, was at the time in the Sant6 prison. The
article in question was written on the 17th April, 1026.
224
for himself alone places himself without knowing it into a particular
psychic state which, according to his receptivity, gives him likewise
a sort of divinatory power.
Further,ifthecardsdonottell usthefuture,wemustadmitthatthey
give us warnings. Therefore, taking their indications into account,
let us be on our guard if they foretell a peril.
And on the other hand let us not buy any of the pamphlets on
Cartomancyofwhichthereareso many, asthere are onthe Language o f
Flowers, and on K eys to Dreams. Cartomancy has a Tradition. In
the following pages we have respected it.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Ill
Meanings o f the Individual Cards. (Piquet Pack)
S u i t s
H earts relate to matters of family, friendship and love.
Diam onds deal with business undertakings, Journeys, messages.
Spades denote suffering, sorrows, mournings, betrayals.
Clubs indicate money matters.
H e a r t s
Ace (Upright). Family happiness.—(Reversed) troubles and
quarrels.
K ing (U.) A sympathetic man, generally fair.—(R.) Not very
easy to get on with.
Queen (U.) Pleasant and virtuous woman, generally fair.—(R.)
Obstacles in love.
Jack (U.) Loyal and good young man.—(R.) His thought.
Ten (U.) Love, work.—
-(R.) Pleasant surprise.
N ine (U.) Content, success, harmony.—(K.) Hindrances, worries.
Eight (U.) Visit or present.—(R.) Auburn young woman, great
pleasure.
■
Seven (U.) Thought of the client or of a loved being.—(R.) Their
desire or their will.
D i a m o n d s
Ace (U.) Letter, business documents.—(R.) Unpleasant letter.
K ing (U.) Protector, soldier, useful man. Marriage with adjoining
queen of diamonds.—(R.) Obstacles. A foreigner or a man from the
country.
Queen (U.) Thoughtless harmful woman (stranger) generally fair.
(R.) Woman from the country or gossiping.
Jack (U.) Soldier, postman (letter certain).—(R.) Disagreeable
letter or upsetting news.
Ten (U.) Journey.—(R.) Delay or change.
N ine (U.) New business.—(R.) Delay.
Eight (U.) Excursion into the country or hunting.—(R.) Delay,
worries, business.
Seven (U). Mocking thought or present.—(R.) Upsets, quarrel.
If next to the client, strengthens the omens.
S p a d e s
A ce (U.) Business or sentimental proposal, lawsuit.—(R.) Love
forsaken.
K in g (U.) Lawyer orjudge.—(R.)Widower, spiteful man. Bother.
Queen (U.) Widow or divorcee (dark).—(R.) Widow wishing to
remarry. Difficulties and disturbances.
Jack (U.) Dark young man.—(R.) Treacherous or envious young
man. Betrayal in love.
T en (U.) Tears, jealousy, worries, letters.—(R.) Bad news, loss
of money
N ine' (U.) Mourning, obstacle, priest, ruin, illness, pain.—(R.)
Strengthens the omen.
Eight (U.) Bad news, sorrow.—(R.) Mystical ideas.
Seven (U.) Worry. Thought of a serious person.—(R.) Indecision,
failure.
Cl u b s
Ace (U.) Lucky speculation.—(R.) A present.
K in g (U.) Dark useful man.—(R.) Sick dark man.
Queen (U.) Dark rich loving woman.—(R.) Loving but flighty
woman.
Jack (U.) Dark young man very much in love.—(R.) Angry or
sick young man.
Ten (U.) Big sum to win or big business.—(R.) Love and money.
N in e (U.) Rich marriage orbiggishsumofmoney.—(R.) Apresent.
Eight (U.) Dark young woman or small sum of money.—(R.).
Dark lady without money.
Seven (U.) Dark child or very small sum of money.—(R) Money
tightness.
It would be a mistake to think that a card can be interpreted in
a thousand ways, for this would mean that it is fantastic ana without
interest. We must as far as possible keep to tradition which is borne
out by empiricism.
C A R T O MA N C Y 226
Daguesah gives the following data about the four suits:—
Hearts denote joy, pleasure, happiness, harmony, hope fulfilled.
If reversed, they are merely less emphatic and denote delays and
obstacles.
Diamonds are less happy omens—rather unpleasant letters, dis-
agreements, lack of harmony.
Spades are generally bad.
Clubsspeakofmoney, ofbusiness. Reversed, theybringdifficulties.
To sum up, the red cards relate to affairs of the heart, generally
better with the hearts and bad with the diamonds; dubs relate to
material affairs; spades are bad omens.
226 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
IV
Meanings o f Groups or Juxtapositions
B y N u m b e r
4 kings—support, honours, success. Obstades if one or more reversed.
8 kings—support, but less powerful.
2 kings—good advice. One reversed, lack of harm ony; both reversed,
entanglements.
4 queens—gossip and scandal; 8—criticism and small scandal;
2—curiosity.
(It is always understood that cards reversed strengthen in an unlucky
sense).
4 jacks—battles; 8—quarrels; 2—discussions.
4 tens—fortunate change of position.
8 tens—money tightness, loss of lawsuit.
2 tens—unexpected repayment of money.
4 nines—unexpected luck; 8—success in enterprises.
4 eights—worries; 8—support from the family (reversed, the contrary).
2 eights—declaration of love (reversed—don’t accept it).
4 sevens—enemies (reversed—they will fail).
8 sevens—birth in the family (reversed—abandonment, sorrow).
2 sevens—irresistible love (reversed—the chosen one will deceive).
4 aces—triumph (reversed—obstacles to this triumph).
8 aces—excess of kindness (reversed—beware of an abuse of con
fidence).
2 aces—intended marriage (reversed—broken off).
B y P o s it io n
The cards, favourable or unfavourable, show their meaning by
their position.
If the client is a dark woman, represented by the Queen of Clubs :—
Near a King of the same suit, followed by a Heart—marriage of inclination.
Near a King of the same suit, followed by a Club—marriage for money.
If the client is a fair woman, represented by the Queen of H earts:—
8urrounded by Jacks—small love affairs.
If it is a m an ;—
Queen and King near him—certain marriage.
If the client is elderly (King of Clubs or of Hearts, of Spades in the
case of a widower):—
Queen of Spades next to him—remarriage (if he has already been married).
Client surrounded by Clubs—money; by Hearts—love; by Spades
—illness.
King (client) near a Queen of Diamonds—intrigues.
King (client) near a nine of Spades—illness (serious if a ten of Spades is on
the other side).
King (client) near the ten of Diamonds—coming journey.
King (client) near the Queen of the same suit—marriage in prospect.
King (client) near a Queen close by a Heart—friendship.
Kiug (client) near a Queen close by two sevens—
irresistible passion.
Queens of Diamonds and Spades surrounded by Hearts—their spite will be
foiled.
Queens of Diamonds and of Spades surrounded by Clubs—they try to harm
you.
Queen of Diamonds near a Jack of Spades—betrayal.
Jack near a Queen of Hearts—small love affair (if there is a King near—
marriage).
Jack near the King—protection.
Jack of Spades near the Jack of Diamonds—look after the servants.
Ten of Diamonds near a red eight—journey by sea.
A ten near the ten of Diamonds—legacy from a distant relative.
Nine and eight of Spades close together—serious illness.
Neighbourhood of a nine of Spades—serious worry.
Neighbourhood of a nine of Diamonds—delay.
Eight of Diamonds near a Heart—short journey.
Eight of Diamonds near a Club—journey of interest.
Seven of Diamonds near a Spade—serious anger.
Seven of Diamonds near a Club—anger due to a money matter.
Sevenof Diamonds neara Jack of Spades or a Queenof Diamonds—betrayal
of love.
Ace of Spades near a seven of Diamonds—proposal which will annoy you.
Ace of Spades near eight of Spades—disappointment.
Ace of Spades near a nine of Spades—abandonment.
Ace of Diamonds near a ten of Diamonds—letter from abroad.
Ace of Diamonds near a seven of Diamonds—anger.
Ace of Diamonds near a nine of Spades—illness.
Many Court Cards—large gathering at which you will be present.
C A R T O MA N C Y 227
228 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
V
A Method o f Reading the Cards. (Pack o f 82)
There are several methods of reading the cards. We will confine
ourselves to one, the most usual, which was supplied to us by a good
cartomancer.
Shuffle and have cut by the client with his left hand. Spread
the whole pack fanwise and face downwards, and let the client draw
with his left hand 18 cards which he hands to the operator. The
latter takes them in the same order, and gathering the remaining 19
cards into a pack, puts them on one side and spreads the 18 drawn
cards fanwise and face upwards.
Having done this, find out where is the card of the client, which
is the King of Hearts for a fair man, the King of Clubs for a dark man,
the Queen of Clubs for a dark married woman, the Queen of Spades
for a widow, the Queen of Hearts for a fair woman or a youngwoman.
If none of these cards is present, take the thought o f the client, which
is the seven corresponding to one of the above cards.
After this count in fives starting from the client, and taking care
that each new starting point shall be the fifth card counting from the
preceding start, so that in reality there shall be only three cards in
each space. Each of the cards so arrived at is read, that is to say, it
receivesits traditionalmeaning. Allthe cardsarethereforeinterpreted.
The client then draws 5 further cards from the 19 remaining in the
pack, and with these covers those 5 cards in the fan as to which he
wants more information. The operator then takes the cards of the
fan two by two, one from each end and reads them in conjunction.
One card, the middle one, remains, as to which nothing is said.
The 18 cards are reshuffled and stacked in three packs, the first
card forming the base of the first pack, the second the base of the
second pack, the third the base of the third pack, the fourth being
placed on the first pack, the fifth on the second pack, etc.
The client chooses one pack for himself, one for his house and one
for his surprise. Taking up each pack and spreading it fanwise, the
cards are again read in relation to their new positions, and the client
thus obtains about himself, his house and his unknown destiny (the
surprise pack) the details which he wished for.
C A R T O M A N C Y
VI
Some K in ds o f Solutions
T h e P a c k s
Shuffle, mix, cut or have cut with the left hand.
Take the cards one by one and make eight packs of four each,
face downwards, except the last of each pack which is placed face
upwards.
Take up two by two the cards of the same value, two aces, two
tens, etc.
Turn up the cards which were below the cards taken up, and start
again.
Success if you take up all the cards. Failure if any cards remain
in the packs.
T h e A c e s
Draw or have drawn anyhow 13 cards from a pack of 82 well shuffled
and cut.
Take out the aces found in these 18 cards and put them on one
side. Brilliant success if the 4 aces should be in these 18 cards.
If they are not all there, reshuffle, recut, and have 18 cards drawn.
Medium success if they all come out the second round, less good
if they only come out the third round, failure if they have not all come
out in the third round.
T h e D i v i n e r 1
After having well shuffled a pack of 82 cards, cut or have it cut
with the left hand. Imagine four lines one below the other, each
corresponding to one suit. There will thus be the line of Hearts, the
line of Diamonds, the line of Spades, the line of Clubs. The sequence
of the lines does not m atter, so long as they are remembered.
Take the cards as they come and place them, face upwards, 8 in
each line
The client indicates a card haphazard. This is picked up and put
in its proper place, the sevens being at the left and the cards going in
proper sequence from the seven to the ace.
When putting it in its place, the card which was there is in its turn
picked up, put in its proper place, and a third card is picked up. And
so on until the last card picked up and put in its proper place shows
the success of the attem pt.
1 It is also called tbe Discovery. It is said to be the one which Harie-Antoinette persistently
played in the prison of the Temple.
230 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
T h e Ma g i c i a n
Holding the pack face upwards, put down the first card calling it 7,
the second card 8, the thira 9, ana so on up to the ace. Beginning
again, call the ninth card 7, the tenth 8, the eleventh 9 and so on.
Each time the card thrown down and the card called correspond, the
card is put on one side. Go on until all the cards have been put down.
Then pick up the cards which did not correspond (without shuffling
them) and go on calling.
Success is very rare.
T h e Se v e n s
This may be played with the cards face upwards or face downwards.
W ith the cards face upwards, take one by one the cards from the
top of a shuffled and cut pack, and place them in rows, 7 cards in the
fiist row, 6 in the second, 5 in the third, the second row partly covering
the first, the third partly covering the second, and so on, there being
thus seven rows, with 7 cards in the first and one in the seventh This
makes 28 cards, 4 remaining in the hand.
Having thus laid out the cards, it is necessary, in order to succeed,
to free the aces and make up the cards into four packs, one of Hearts,
one of Diamonds, one of Spades, one of Clubs, the ace being a t the
bottom, followed by the 7, 8, etc., up to the King.
One means only is allowed to obtain this result, th a t is to move
one uncovered card (there are 7 at the start) and to place it on a card
immediately above in value and of another colour (a red ten on a black
Jack, a black Queen on a red King, a black eight on a red nine, etc.),
if there is one available.
If one comes to a stop, the cards in the hand may be called upon
to get out of the difficulty. When these four cards are exhausted
without the four packs having been formed from the cards which have
become available, there is failure.
With the cards face downwards, the process is the same, but only
the last card in each row is placed face upwards. As the remaining
cards are hidden, it is not known where the aces are, but it is allowed
to move a whole column the head of which is available for placing
on another uncoveredcard(e.g., if a visible columnconsists of a series,
red Jack, black ten, red nine, blackeight, and the last card of another
column is a black Queen, it is allowed to move the whole column on
to the Queen. Onecolumnbeingthus free, anothercardmay beplaced
there from the foot of another column, the last card of which may
then be turned up. This gives more freedom of movement).
These two solutions do not often succeed, and they require attention;
hence their double interest. A wish should be made before beginning,
failure indicating that the wish will not come true.
Large numbers of these solutions might be given and are quoted
by Daguesah. Butwelook upon them mainlyas a pastime, a drawing
room game, and consequently we do not think we should, in a serious
bookdealingwiththe OccultSciences, spend muchtime on these amuse
ments where the reality of prediction, if it exists at all, is infinitesimal.
C A R T O MA N C Y 231
VII
Taroc
We shall in this book consider Taroc twice. The first time, here,
from the point of view of Cartomancy. The second time, in the second
part, we shall, in addition to its history, discuss it from the point of
view of its philosophical, or rather kabbalistic, symbolism.
At present, therefore, let us, without discussion, examine the Taroc
cards mom the point of view of playing cards.
A pack of Taroc consists of 78 cards, 22 being called major arcana
and 56 minor arcana, divided into 4 series, each having its own colour,
and called rods, cups, swords, pence.
The group of major arcana consists of symbols which we shall
describe below.
The group of minor arcana consists of 40 hieroglyphics and 16
Court cards. In each series therefore there are 14 cards, viz., 10
hieroglyphics and 4 Court cards.
The Figures on the rods and the swords represent dark persons,
those on the cups and the pence fair persons.
The following are the individual meanings of the 78 cards and
leaves of Taroc. These are as given in the Daguesah. There are others,
particularly those taught by Etteilla, the pictures of which are not
the same as those described below.1
Ma j o r Ca r d s
TheJuggler.—Change of position, soon if the card is upright, long and difficult
if it is reversed.
The Popess.—Against the client a cruel, malevolent and unbalanced woman,
who, if reversed, will cause worries.
The Empress.—Fertility and happiness at home. But reversed, she denotes
disunion, serious or passing, according to the cards which are near.
1It is a pity that there is not in Taroc, as in vnoordinaiy playingcords, a definite type
whichcouldeasily besetup througha combinationof the varioustraditional types.
The Pope.—This card represents man, strength. Upright it denotes loyalty
which gives the courage to escape from temptation. Reversed it counsels
distrust; beware of deceivers and intriguers.
TheLorn.—The Bymbol of chaos, of indecision, of obscurity. Placed between
a King and a Queen, it announces a marriage, but if it is reversed, the
break of a union.
The Chariot.—This was the Initiate, he who knows, he who is. Announces
great honour for the client. If reversed, the client will be unhappy
at home.
Justice.—Success in business matters, the winning of a lawsuit. If reversed
—great disappointment.
The Hermit.—Some one is seeking to harm you, but the spitefulnesa at work
against y o u will fail. If reversed, it means the opposite.
The WhedofFortune.—The best sign of luck in Taroc. Reversed, it indicates
delays.
Strength.—Success through work, perseverance, will-power. Reversed—
disgrace, cares.
The Hanged Man.—You sacrifice yourself too much. And if this card is
reversed, the sacrifice is useless.
Death.—Upright or reversed, it is a bad omen. Do not undertake anything
for the moment.
Temperance.—Fortunate omen. Rich marriage for the client. Reversed,
thoughtlessness which may be harmful.
The Devil.—Temptation to evil, irresistible if the card is reversed.
The Madhouse,—
-Accident, shipwreck, unexpected misfortune. The sign
of events which will surprise you. If near the pence, you will have a
legacy, If reversed, beware of the lightning.
TheStar.—This is the influence of the stars on your birth. This card reversed
is the sign of the near conclusion of a business.
The Moon.—Obscurity, unclear business. If reversed, be careful in your
undertakings.
The Sun.—Early clearing up. Happy omen. If reversed, do not worry.
Judgment.—You will succeed in everything. Reversed, do not act without
advice.
The Madman.—A thoughtless act may play you a bad trick. If reversed,
black thoughts.
The World.—If well surrounded, there is nothing to fear, especially if Justice
or the Emperor are near. Reversed, difficulties to overcome.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Min o r Ca r d s
T h e Te n s
Ten of Rods.—Strange town. Tempest. Reversed—spitefulness which will
fail.
Ten of Cups.—
Success. The town in which the client lives. Reversed, a
nch marriage. If this ten is next to the seven of rods, slander.
TenofSwords.—Sorrow, melancholy, cares, lack oi money. Reversed, wealth,
success.
Ten of Pence.—Announces some money. Placed near the chariot a legacy.
Reversed next to the ace of cups, festivity or family ceremony.
Th e Nin e s
Nine of Rods.—Illness, delay in business matters. Reversed near the Em*
peror, benignant illness.
Nino of Cups.—Honour, success, gain. Reversed near the eight of pence,
plans upset.
Nine of Swords.—Great disappointment. Prudence necessary. Reversed,
you will be present at a marriage. For the client it will break a union
if the nine reversed is next to him.
Nine ofPence.—Certainty of success. Reversed, beware of a bad joker; near
the Madman, plots.
C ART OMANCY 233
Th e Eig h t s
Eight of Rods.—Journey. For an unmarried person, prospect of marriage.
Reversed near a pence card, worry; near sword, care, falseness.
Eight of Cups.—Happiness for a young girl, or marriage with a fair woman.
Reversed, success of a projected union.
Eight of Swords.—Discussion, possibility of a duel. For a soldier, fighting.
Reversed, spiteful proposau.
Eight of Pence.—Good position; brilliant future. Reversed, success with
women for a bachelor; for a lady client, worldly success.
Th e Se v e n s
Seven of Rods.—Silly chatter. Reversed near the three of cups, fire.
Seven ofCups.—Unhoped for favour. Reversed, charitable mind.
SevenofSwords.—Success in all undertakings. For a married woman, several
children. Reversed, a lawsuit concerning a legacy.
Seven of Pence.—Reflection, prudence in business matters. Near the wheel
of fortune, big legacy. Reversed, happy marriage.
Th e Six e s
Six of Rods.—Obstacle to plans. Reversed, betrayal by a friend; but near
the eight of cups, success over enemies.
Six ofCups.—New acquaintances who will cause worry. Reversed, rivalry.
Six ofSwords.—Journey. Near a card of pence, great ambition. Reversed,
legacy from a relative.
Six of Pence.—Contested legacy. Reversed, unexpected and powerful pro
tection.
234 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Th e F iv e s
FiveofBode.—Anger. If thiscard isnearthefourofrods,(peatgam.Reversed,
winning of alawsuit (certain if the Sang of Swords is near it).
Five of Cups.—Lucky card. Important inheritance. Reversed, brilliant
marriage.
Five of Swords.—Theft at home, lies. Reversed, ceremony at which yon
will be present.
Five ofPence.—Unexpected gain. Reversed, find on the public road.
Th e F o u b s
Four of Rods.—Stay in the country. Increase of wealth. If reversed, a
birth.
Four of Cups.—Great upset. Reversed, a pleasant meeting.
Four ofStems.—The client will have mystic thoughts. Reversed, rain.
Four of Pence.—Gain in a lottery, money will be invested. Reversed, yon
will overcome difficulties.
T h e Th b e e s
ThreeofRods.—The client will become famous or rich. Reversed, difficulties.
Near the Juggler, betrayal by a friend.
ThreeofCups.—Success; for an artist, great renown; for an author, snccess;
for an officer, brilliant future; for a woman, unhoped-for success. Re
versed, fall; accident.
Three of Swords.—Great disillusion. Reversed, divorce or marriage broken
ofi; bad omen, false and lying lover.
Three of Pence.—Unexpected business proposal. Reversed, a proposal of
this kind will not he accepted.
Th e Tw o s
Two of Rods.—Jealousy, heartache. Reversed, unhoped-for joy.
Two of Cups.—Wealth, hut avarice. Reversed, unexpected success.
Two of Swords.—Valuable present. Reversed—friendship of a rich and
generous person.
Two of Pence.—Undertaking which will turn out badly. Reversed, great
discussion.
Th e Ac e s
Ace ofRods.—Near the two of cups—calumny. Reversed, abandonment.
Ace of Cups.—Will which will overcome. Near the Queen, happy news.
Reversed, happy inspiration.
Ace of Swords.—Catastrophe, ruin. Reversed, help in distress.
Ace ofPence.—If this card comes out first, it foretells such happiness that it
overcomes all other cards and destroys all bad influence. Near the
Wheel of Fortune, immense wealth. Reversed, smaller fortune.
C A R T OMANC Y 235
Th e Sq u ir e s
SquireofRods.—Pleasant news. Nearthe tjueenof Rods, brilliant marriage;
near the Wheel of Fortune, lucky speculation. Reversed, modest happi
ness.
Squire ofCups.—Great esteem. Devotion on the part of friend. Reversed,
present.
SquireofSwords.—Betrayal by a friend of rivalry in love. Reversed, pleasant
surprise.
SquireofPence.—For a lady, conquest ofa rich man whowill make her happy.
Reversed, disorder; money squandered.
Th e Kn ig h t s
Knight of Rods.—Money; fortunate change of position. Reversed, money
borrowed.
Knight of Cups.—Visit, pleasant invitation. Reversed, crookedness.
KnightofSwords.—Beware of attack or slander. Reversed, quarrel, disunion
in the family.
KnightofPence.—Thoughtless conduct which, in a woman, will cause worries
and in a young man will have serious consequences. Reversed, an
opportunity which you will miss.
Th e Qu e e n s
Queen of Rods.—Woman possessing great qualities. Happy marriage with
a dark lady. Reversed, a happy old age.
Queen of Cups.—Fair or chestnut lady, distinguished, devoted. Reversed,
intemperance, misconduct.
Queen ofSwords.—Widow, forsaken woman. Reversed, do not marry lightly;
solitude.
Queen of Pence.—Dark woman, rich heiress. Reversed, this woman has
baa health.
Th e K in g s
King ofRods.—Man who succeeds in business. Sincere friend.
King of Cups.—Chivalrous generous lover. For a young man, support.
Reversed, you must be careful.
King of Swords.—Soldier or judge. For a lady or young girl, beware of a
flatterer. Reversed, deceiver.
King of Pence—Usurer; man who may harm you. Reversed, good looking
man, but thoughtless and deceiver.
• • • • • •
In order to consult the Taroc, see the teaching of the Daguesah:—
I t must first be remembered that in general the meaning of the
Taroc is intensified or diminished according to whether the card is
near to or far from the client—that man represents action and will
power ; women, indecision, inconstancy or submission; the knight, a
young bachelor; the squire, activity without initiative; th at the
rods, cups, swords and pence correspond to the clubs, hearts, spades
and diamonds of an ordinary piquet pack; finally that the aces react
on the cards near by, weakening or strengthening their meaning.
Method :—Shuffle and have cut, either three times or seven times,
then ask the client to choose first 21 cards which you will place in a
half circle, then 5 more cards which you will place like th is:—One at
the top above the 11th card; the second at the bottom, underneath ;
the third above the fifth card (at the right), the fourth above the fifth
card (on the left), that is symmetrically with the preceding; the fifth
on the 11th card, half covering it.
Then explain; read the cards from the right to the left, according
to the data just given.
After this let the client draw 42 more cards and make them into
7 packs of 6 each.
Place these packs into a row, proceeding from the right to the
left.
Take the first card of each pack and place them in a row from the
right to the left.
Then take two cards from each pack and make two more rows.
There remain 7 packs of 8 cards each. Pick them up starting on
the right and leaving them in their order, then make three more rows
with them.
The total of these rows will make a second figure below the first
(the 26 cards of the fan). Read and explain this second figure from the
right to the left.
There remain 10 cards in the hand (since you have used 26 + 42
= 68). Without shuffling them, spread and read them ; they will
foretell bad luck which can be avoided and good luck which can be
brought about.
Here is another method, the Italian, which seems to correspond
most exactly to the primitive Taroc:—
1. Shuffle, cut, spread out the whole pack face downwards. Ha
22 cards drawn and spread them before you as they are drawn, from
the left to the right in three series of seven plus one.
The first seven give general information as to the immediate past.
The second seven relate to the present, and especially to the actual
anxieties of the client.
The third seven deal with the immediate future, and the remaining
card is the synthetic resultant.
236 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
2. Connect the separate meanings of the cards in lives (as was
done in the ordinary piquet pack, so th at there are three cards between
every two consulted), starting from the first on the left.
8. Reshuffle the whole pack, have it cut and 48 cards drawn which
are made up into 12 packs of 4 each, the meaning of each relating t o :—
I. The personality of the client; II. Money matters; III. Family rela
tions ; IV. Parents (hither, mother and their property); V. Love, pleasures,
personal satisfaction; VI. Colleagues, collaborators, current relations; VII.
Marriage, lawsuits; VIII. Health; IX. Personal merits and their results;
X. Actual good or bad luck; XI. Assistance and protection; XII. Unpleasant
nesses and misfortunes.1
4. If it is desired to be more precise, reshuffle, have cut and 15 cards
drawn which are spread out from left to right, then 15 more, which
are placed in a stack on one side
Start the interpretation again, beginning with the first card on the
left, in fives as before.
Then give the stack of 15 to the client asking him to draw one which
he will place on th at card spread out which interests him most. This
card will give the supreme enlightenment.
Finally there is this simpler method given by Papus®:—
1. Take the pack of the minor arcana and separate the suit which
relates to the kind of consultation asked for, that is to say the Rods
(or Sceptres) for Business matters, the Cups for Love affairs, the Swords
for Lawsuits, the Pence for Money questions.
2. Shuffle the cards chosen, have them cut by the client.
8. Take the major arcana, shuffle and have them cut, place them
without looking in a cross from the left to right as appears below (in
ordinary figures).
3. Take the minor arcana, shuffle and have them cut, then let
seven cards be chosen haphazard which are reshuffled, recut, and from
which the three top cards are taken and placed as appears below (in
Roman figures):—
4
I II
1 8
III
2
1The analogywith the twelve houses of the sun mentionedin the Chapter onAstrology
will be noticed.
*Let us remember that various serious methods of reading thocards and Tarooare found
intho booksof Papus, Lemarchand, Julia Oraini, Mme. Clement, Etteilla.
C A R T O MA N C Y 237
4. Then pick up the cards and read their meanings, noting that
card 1 indicates the beeinning of the problem you are asked to solve;
card 2, its apogee; card 8, the obstacles to beware o f; card 4, the end
of the business; the major card I, the influence on the question in the
p a st; card II, the influence a t present; card III, the influence on it
in the future.
In this simplified method the King represents a Man, without
other distinction, the Queen a Woman, the Knight a Young Man,
and the Knave a Child.
238 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
CHAPTER VI
O n i b o m a n c y
I
Antiquity o f Oniromaney. Famous Dreams
Al l nations in all times were struck by the extravagance of dreams,
and also by the coincidences which they noticed between the subject
matter of their dreams and subsequent events. Therefore at an early
date a premonitory value was attached to dreams, wise men began
to comment on them, and a special science was born to interpret them.
This belief in the revelation of the future by the images of sleep
came from the faith in gods who by this means sent to man warnings
and counsel. It will thus be seen a t once th a t Oniromaney (from
oneiros, dream, and manteia, divination) is connected w ith intuitive
divination, whilst the inductive divination interprets the signs of the
thoughts of the gods. Wc have here an intim ate communion w ith the
intellect, a subjective (and not objective, by means of intermediaries)
prediction, which is made by the direct coming of celestial light to the
mind. This is how Aristotle understood it, whilst adm itting th a t
sometimes the language of dreams might be symbolical.
Oniromaney is a great realm which may be divided into tw o terri
tories :—th at of the observation of dreams, or Oniroscopy, and th a t
of their interpretation, or Onirocritics. Plutarch and Cicero did not
scorn to study it, and following them there are numerous authors
from olden tim es to the present d ay 1 not to speak of m any w riters of
Keys to Dreams, always drawn up at second hand.
One of these Keys, the most famous and extremely old, is th a t of
Artemidorus of Ephesus which has recently been translated and
commented on by Mr. Henri Vidal in a beautifully produced book
w ith notes on the author, from which we gather the following inform a
tion.*
* 8ee lVlbus, The Mysterious Realm of Dreamt (published by Drouin).
* The Key to Dreamt, by Artemidorus of Ephesus, or The rive Books of the Interpretation
of Dreams and Visions, translated from the Greek and commented on by Henri Vidal (Sditfona
de la Sirens, 1921}.
240
Artemidorus was bom at Ephesus in the tim e of Antoninus Pius.
He practised Oniromancy in ms native city, then a magnificent and
famous town, and also Chiromancy, under the name of Artemidorus
of Daldia. H e had read all the treatises which had up to then appeared
dealing w ith these m atters, and had sought his enlightenm ent from
Epicharmus, Antiphon, Strabo, Demetrius of Phalera, ApollodOrus,
Aristarchus, Aristides the magnetiser, Geminus the astrologer, and
many others. He added his own experiences and was careful to dis
tinguish between dreams which might have a prem onitory value and
others.
Mr. Vidal also refers to the interesting book which Mr. Boucher-
Leclercq has devoted to the ancient history of the divinatory a rts.1
According to this author Onirocritics is as old as the world. B ut
Jaucourt gives its origin more exactly by tracing it back to the Egyptian
priests who were p u t masters of the art. B ut it is more probable
th a t dream s have always moved those who had them .
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Many dreams have become famous, either on account of the position
of those who had them, or on account of the events which happened
and which are claimed to have been foretold by them.
No child who has studied his Bible will have forgotten the dream
of Jacob seeing the ladder placed on his breast and rising to the sky,
prediction of the high destiny of his race; the dream of Pharaoh (the
seven fat kine and the seven lean kine) which Joseph interpreted as
the approach of seven years of plenty followed by seven years of famine,
and so many others in which Jehovah appealed to Moses and the
Prophets. More especially in the Gospels ne will remember the angel
foretelling to the carpenter Joseph the supernatural motherhood of
Mary, and the other angel who warned him to fly into Egypt so as to
escape the Massacre of the Innocents, and the wife of Pilate excited
by dreams which drove her to beg her husband to save Christ, etc.
Independently of the well known dreams of A thaly and Belshazzar,
it was in a dream th a t the m other of Virgil knew by seeing laurels
th a t she would give birth to a poet, in a dream th a t B rutus saw a
threatening spectre foretelling his defeat on the eve of the battle of
Philippi, in a dream th a t Calpurnia, the wife of Csesar, foresaw the
murder of her august husband, in a dream th a t Catherine de Medici
saw the tournam ent in which her husband lost his life, in a dream th a t
Henri II of France heard a voice predicting exactly the wound to his
eye which would come soon, in a dream th at the Princesse de Condd
was present in anticipation a t the battle of Jam ac in which her son
was to perish, in a dream th a t Madame Roland knew the death of her
i Published by Ernest Lodoux, 1870.
m other, and th a t Madame de la Bddolli&re saw the man she was to m arry
and whom she did not know.
Here are some other rem arkable dream s:—
The celebrated astronom er Flammarion told1 Madame de Thebes
th a t a traveller of the name of B£rard saw in a dream, at an inn where
he put up, all the details of a m urder which was to be com m itted later
when the lawyer V. Am aud was killed in the room in which he slept,
thanks to which dream it was possible to discover the body (in the
bam ) and to arrest the m urderers.
' The Italian chronicler, Paul Jove (X V Ith Century) relates in his
Histories th a t a certain Captain Sforza dream t of a river in which he
tripped and was nearly drowned, after having in vain asked the help
of a person dressed like St. Christopher, who was on the shore. On
the morrow, as he was crossing the Peschara at the head of his troops,
he saw one of his pages who had got away from the ford by which the
arm y was crossing, and who was being carried away by the current.
He ran to his assistance, but was in his turn carried off by the rapid
tide. Thus he perished after having the preceding night foreseen
the danger which he told to his companions in arms w ithout attaching
any im portance to it.
So also Louis de Bourbon, the Cond«5 who was mixed up in the
religious wars, being one of the chiefs of the Protestant P arty, dream t
some tim e after the battle of Dreux th a t he was fighting three others
and winning them , but th a t he m et his death am ongst the corpses of
his enemies, the M arshal de Saint-Andr£ and the Due de Guise. And
the Marshal was in fact killed soon after a t Dreux, the Duke a t Orleans
and the Prince himself a t Bassac. I t is true th a t in those troublous
tim es it was fairly safe to foretell a death in war. Y et it remains
th a t this particular one seems to have been foreseen in a dream .
A t the tim e of the siege of Chio (1481) the Genoese Grimani one
day told his friends th a t in his sleep he had seen an enormous serpent
crawling tow ards him to swallow him. He concluded th a t a violent
death threatened their comrade, and advised him not to take part in
the fighting. A sortie taking place, Grimani confined himself to
following the soldiers a t a distance, then, hiding behind the ram parts,
he put his eye to a loophole, when a t the same moment a ball struck
him and killed him.
Three days before being killed by Jacques Clement, King H enri
III of France saw in a dream all the royal insignia bloodstained and
trodden under foot by monks and by the mob.
John Funger of Leovarde relates a dream which in its result was
a strange godsend for the dreamer. A young man of Dordrecht, an
1 In hia book, The Riddle of the Dream.
O N I R O M A N C Y 241
orphan and loaded w ith debts, no longer knew how to get out of his
difficulties, when in a dream he was advised to go to Kempen, where
he would find the solution of all his troubles. The latter town was
a long way off. Nevertheless our Dutchm an went there, and walked
about all day, waiting in vain for the promised solution. W orried
and staring a t the ground in front of him, he m et on the bridge of the
town a beggar who asked him w hat was worrying him. The young
man, who had nothing to do, told him his story, related his dream ana
confessed the purpose of his journey. The beggar smiled and was
astonished th a t any one should take such a long journey for so little.
“ If I took any notice of such rubbish,” he added, “ I should only
have to go very quickly to Dordrecht, from where you come, and find
a garden which has also been described to me in a dream, and where
there is a treasure buried under a rosebush. B ut rather than do such
a silly thing I prefer tw o days' receipts on this bridge where passers-by
give me alms.”
To this the beggar added various details from which our Dutchm an
learnt th a t the garden in question was nothing more or less than the
garden of his own father who had recently died and whose fortune he had
just wasted. Appearing, like the beggar, to attach no im portance to
dreams, he chatted a few moments longer, and w ithout further delay
returned to Dordrecht. He walked ml night and arrived towards
morning, tired out, but buoyed with lively hope. W ithout taking
any rest he hastened towards the garden which he Knew so well, started
digging at the foot of the rosebush and found there in a cashbox such
a quantity of gold coins th at he was able to repay the money which he
had borrowed and to live, a wiser man, happily to the end of his days.
The violinist and musical theorist Giuseppe Tartini (18th century)
claims th at it is to a dream th a t he owes Ms famous composition of
wMch the title The DeviTs Sonata recalls the origin. He had begun
it in a burst of inspiration, but could not manage to finish it. Tired
of seeking, he fell asleep, obsessed by Ms subject. In Ms dream he
saw himself again tied down to Ms ungrateful task, despairing of ever
carrying it through. Suddenly the devil appeared to Mm and offered,
in exchange for ms soul, to finish the sonata. No artist consumed by
the fire of genius would refuse to make such an exchange to enable
him to create a masterpiece. W ithout haggling Tartini agreed to the
bargain, whereupon he heard with the greatest delight the devil play
on his violin the notes he wanted. W aking up, he ran to his desk,
wrote down what he had just heard and took up his violin. The sonata
unrolled itself complete and entirely in accordance with his desire.
I t is quite possible th a t in those days of faith the composer may have
thought th a t he saw the image of Satan disturb his slumbers, but we
m ust also remember th at it is a common experience th a t “ the night
242 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
brings counsel,” and th a t it has often happened th a t m athem aticians,
amongst others, have found in the morning the solution of a problem
which troubled them the night before.
O N I R O M A N C Y 243
II
A Little Study on Dreams
Are dreams in Reality prophetic ?
We have all known coincidences in this respect which were a t
least disturbing and striking. Let us add th at some scientists have
believed (Franklin for instance) and still believe in dreams as a warning,
a t least to some extent. On the other hand there are certain cases
where the dream foreboding can easily be understood. How many
wives of fishermen, for instance, see in their sleep their husbands being
shipwrecked, when alas, th a t same night the men are engulfed by a fate
which is only too common to seafarers. B ut do they not forget these
same dreams when nothing happens ?
Nevertheless let us remember, following Paul Jagot, th a t if in some
psycho-physical conditions (especially in hypnosis) the hum an being
shows himself apt to foresee future events, similarly it is not extra
ordinary th a t sleep should sometimes be accompanied by a premonitory
sensitiveness in which images seen transform themselves into a more
or less vaguely symbolical form.
Chi the other hand Thylbus rem arks in his Realm of Dreams, th a t
they are predictive barely once in a hundred times. These visions
of the night are often due, as we shall see presently, to the state of the
body, or to a physical sensation perceived during sleep,1or to a contri
bution from the immense reservoir of our recollections, or to a repressed
desire (Freud's theory). Therefore, before opening a Key to Dreams,
try to find out by a careful analysis w hat it is th a t may have given rise
to the dream which disturbed you. I t is only in cases where it seems
inexplicable th a t it m ay possibly have any premonitory value.
Before studying the causes of dreams let us quote the pretty legend
of their origin, according to an Arab tale told by the Countess T ad y :—
The Dreams one day took ship w ith their father Sleep for an
inchanted isle. B ut the latter, having offended the God of Tempests
by giving a peaceful rest to some sailors whom th a t bellowing deity
* Experiments by Herroy de Saint-Denis and Maury. For instance a bottle of scent
>utbefore a sleeper induced the vision ofa perfumer's shop in Cairo; a lew strokes on a triangle
jave him the thought of a town where the alarm-bell was ringing, etc.
was pursuing with his fury, in his turn saw contrary winds revenging
themselves of his kindness, and cast him on an inhospitable snore
where there was nothing to save from Boredom. B ut the power
of the M aster of Storms ceased w ith the tw ilight, when began the reign
of the Moon and Night. Then the father of the Dreams, taking pity
on the sorrow of his children, allowed them to escape as soon as night
fell. T hat is why, with the coming of the Shadows, the Dreams take
their flight and bring haphazard, according to their several characters,
to some sweet illusion, to others the obsession of nightm are.
• • • » • •
The Egyptians called the dreams Mysterious Messengers, for they
took them to be sent by the Goddess Isis who, w ith the aid of Serapis,
thus sent warnings and counsel.
B ut let us come to more serious explanations.
In the opinion of occultists, the separation of the being into the
m aterial “ self ” and the psychical or astral “ self ” rarely takes place
in a state of wakefulness, but more often during sleep. And if they
see in dreams a kind of presentiment or telepathy, this is, they say,
because the soul during sleep more than during wakefulness is freed
from the heavy weight of the m aterial body, and thus is more easily
able to communicate with the spiritual world.
Scientists, on the other hand, at least the m aterialists who despise
every hypothesis which does not use the scalpel, explain dreams by the
rush of the blood to the head, allow them only physiological causes,
and say they are the result of the nervous system acting on itself without
communicating with the outside world, sleep, by suspending a t least
in part the exercise of certain faculties (attention, will-power, judgm ent)
releasing the control of all the images and thoughts which imagination
brings to the mind without co-oraination (hence incoherence).
I t cannot be denied that physiological conditions affect dreams,
and the ancients were well aware of this, for before accepting signs, they
took into account the functioning of the organs, the position of the
sleeper during his sleep (which had to avoid any compression of the
liver, themirror oftrue dreams), the hour, the day and the season (autum n
and winter, in their opinion, being not very good times). This is why,
following the Arab physician Ibn Sirin (who lived in the eighth century
b .c .) , Moreau de la Sarthe and Maine de Biran distinguish two classes
of dreams—the intuitive (independent of any diseased or special state,
and the only ones of interest to Oniromancy) and the affective or organic
(connected w ith special conditions, pathological or other, and due to
them, as for instance of cold, sleeper dreaming of snow, etc.)
Let us go into some detail as to each of these categories.
244 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
As we said, the intuitive dreams are the only ones which have any
connection with divinatory science. Even then it is perhaps going
too far to believe th a t “ the gods ” busy themselves with our petty
affairs to the extent of giving us their advice in this manner, and it
may be disturbing to see the contradictions existing between the various
“ keys to dreams ” which are offered to our eagerness to know the future.
And besides, how m any thousands of dreams have never seen their
predictions fulfilled!
Y et Madame de ThSbes replies:—(1) The contradictions between
the various keys are only seemingly so ; the signs are never clear,
and their interpretation varies according to colour, juxtaposition, or
the sequence of images in a contrary direction. Thus one key may
say th a t a dog seen in a dream is a lucky omen, another th a t it is
unlucky; but good luck is foretold only if the dog is white, for a grey
one foretells misfortune, a black one ruin, a red one discord or war
(red—m artian token). (2) On the other hand, these indications vary
according to the planetary type of the person interested, the astral
influences acting on the whole of his life. For instance the dream of
a serpent, dangerous to the Jupiterian, only foretells worry to the
Saturnian, and whilst stagnant water is hostile to the former, this
same w ater to the lunar type promises joy and wealth. (8) Finally
the contradictions in question, even if real, may be explained by different
interpretations being given by different nations, some having thought
th a t certain signs were to them bad omens, whereas for others they
were favourable. Let us also remember the peregrinations of the
elements of O nirom ancy:—the Greeks borrowed them from the
Egyptians and the Chaldeans before transm itting them to the Romans
who in their turn brought them to us by conquest. And do we not
observe also th a t groups of superstitions cnange their character
according to whether they are rife in the N orth or in the South ?
We have said th a t occultists saw in dreams a kind of presentim ent
or telepathy, which is the faculty of seeing at a distance and w ithout
the aid of the senses. By the laws of determinism, events concerning
each one of us are undoubtedly always in preparation in the vast field
of the invisible w orld; they are in some way in a condition of germina
tion as the seed is at the bottom of a furrow. B ut it happens in the
spiritual world as it happens in the physical world, and all forebodings
do not come true—just as all seeds cast into the furrow do not blossom.
Reasons of which sometimes we are unaware, and which sometimes
are the result of our will-power warned by the dream, arrest or precipitate
the events on their course.
And Madame de Thfebes, so celebrated owing to the thousands of
dreams which she interpreted during her consultations, and who
with the fugue of a faith which seems so convinced wrote her well-
O N I R O M A N C Y 245
known Riddle of the Bream, loyally shows her prudence when she
w rites:—
“ No absolute certainty must be founded on the interpretation of dreams.
A line must bo drawn between Boience and fancy, and we must admit that
dreams are reminiscences or the reflection of preoccupations rather than
predictions. . . . We must not take keys to dreams like words of the Gospel.
All that we can say on the subject of the mysterious future, the search into
which has been of passionate interest to the human soul since there have been
human beings, will never be based except on hypotheses and on coincidences.”
And after having honestly warned in this way those who offered
her large fees for the interpretation of their dreams, she adds these
delightful lines, borrowed in part from the Great Encyclopaedia,
which shall serve as conclusion to this passage on intuitive dream s:—
" The Ancients claimed that it was possible, by recipes, by amulets,
by prayers and by drawings, to regulate one's dreams, to procure sweet and
pleasant ones and to avoid unpleasant ones. For this purpose they specially
advised the placing of a branch of laurel near the head. Would you like some
advice on this matter ! Sweet dreams arise naturally from a peaceful heart
and an easy conscience; the wicked man has no pleasant dreams. Do good
to all, loveand devoteyourself, and your nightswillbefull ofpleasantrecollec
tions and dreams. Do not read at night dark or terrifying pages which will
reproduce themselves in equally horrible images. Go to sleep on pleasant
thoughts and you will have pleasant dreams.”
To close this subject on quite a modem note, let us draw attention
to the enquiry made by the Petit Journal (May, 1925) into “ Modem
Sorcerers,” or rather present day occult happenings (which would
be a better title) by Messrs. Marcel Nadaud and Maurice Pelletier,
the article of the latter being headed “ In the Realm of Dreams ”
(19th May). We find there a t length the story of a peasant in Burgundy-
whom they knew during the war. I t was a man of the name of Antoine
Maugras, looked upon as a simpleton, who learnt during his sleep
various coming events, a birth, news of which arrived by u tte r three
days later, an order, which in fact came a t the hour mentioned, etc.
Alas, in the same way Maugras knew two days beforehand th a t he
would die in the attack of tne 7th July, 1915. Another curious fact
was th a t his wife had a similar gift of prediction. We have here
evidently a phenomenon which combined the strange fact ofpremonitory
dreams and the strange fact of certain presentiments. I t should be
added th a t the wife of Maugras died on tne same day as her husband.
As to the affective or organic dreams which are caused in a definite
246 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Mid natural m anner by the pathological condition of some organ,
they possess an interest which is practical and can often be checked.
They belie the saying th a t every dream is but a lie, for they may possibly
reveal to the dream er some evil of which he had no suspicion. And if
he will follow our advice, he will in these particular cases a t once call
on his doctor to be examined. And then he will be able to say th at
in tru th his dreams were for him warning gods to whom perhaps he
owes his salvation.
Larousse, who generally is not very favourably disposed towards
anything which touches the supernatural—far from it—is yet com
pelled to bow before the evidence. And on this subject he says the
following:—
The slightest indispositions as well as the most serious illnesses may give
rise to dream s. Unfortunately their semeiological value is very uncertain;
we do not know their connection with the seat and the nature of the various
affections which they accompany. All that we do know is that, during sleep,
the pathological labour which goes on in the depths of the organism induces
dreams which are in more orless direct relation with the affected organ. This
is so true that they may sometimes raise suspicions as to an illness which is
notrevealedbyanythingduringastateofwakefulness. Togivesomeinstances.
Organic affections of the heart or the large veins are sometimes announced
before their obvious occurrence by painful dreams or nightmares followed
by sorrowful presentiments. If they are frequently repeated, they may be
looked upon as symptoms foretelling a serious lesion which it is already very
difficult if not impossible to prevent. When this has become actual, the
dreams are very wort; they occur mostly during the first sleep and arc
quickly followed by waking up with a start. Combined with them there is
always or almost always the fear of an early death in tragical circumstances
According to the observations of various doctors, spontaneous hsemorrhages,
the result of an abnormal congestive rush of blood to the head, are sometimes
foretold by red dreams of fire or of murderous sights. The morethese dreams
arc accentuated and detailed, the more they must be taken into consideration.
It is especially during the prodromic period of neurosis and of mental aliena
tion that they are found of such a bizarre and extraordinary character as to
arouse the suspicions of a doctor. Madness, before showing itself definitely,
very often reveals itself by terrible nightmares of the worst omen.
The same phenomena accompany illness more often than they precede
it. Fever-stricken persons sometimes feel the most dreadful thirst, and
dreamthat they cannotslake it. People have been known to dreamthat they
had a legcutoff or turned to stone, andhavewakenedupparalysed, or become
so a few days later. Cold in an organ or its prolonged compression are some
times accompanied by the same sensations. The scientist Gessner dreams
that he is bitten in the sideby a serpent, and very soon recognisesin the same
spot the signs of an anthrax which will carry him off in five days. Arnauld
do Villeneuve dreams that he is bitten in the foot by a viper and soon sees it
0 NI R 0 MAN CY 247
248
stricken with a cancerous ulcer. As will be seen from these examples, nearly
all these dream s, related to various morbid states, are nightmares. In
melancholia dreams are habitually sad and oppressive. Sometimes those
who have them wake up wet with perspiration and bathed in tears. In the
case of expansive monomania dreams are gay and smiling; in mania, odd,
bizarre, without order; in dementia and imbecility, rare and transient. Of
alldiseasesthosewhichinducethe mostterrifyingnightmaresare theaffections
of the heart, of the great vessels of the brain and of the organs of respiration.
Thisisas faras Westernsciencewillgointhismatter; Easternphysicians
go a little farther.
Hindu and Chinese medicine for centuries has been looking to dreams
for information as to the diagnosis of illness. In their system dreams are
dividedintofiveclasseswhich correspond to thefive great viscera:—theheart,
the lungs, the kidneys, the spleen and the liver. Each class is sub-divided
according to two normal conditions of the organ. The normal condition
of all these organs induces no dreams of any kind. These principles having
been stated, the following gives, as an example of this Asiatic science, a sum
mingupofthevariousdreams whichdenotethebadfunctioningofeachviscera:
I. Dream of ghosts, monsters, terrifying figures—sign of bad functioning
of the heart (vessels choked), repletion. Dream of fire, names, smoke, light-
sign of bad functioning of the heart (giddiness due to weakness of the blood
current and slowing down of the rhythm), inanition.
II. Dream of fights, war, weapons, soldiers—sign of bad functioning of
the lungs; repletion. Dream of plains, sea, country, difficult roads and
journeys—sign of bad functioning of the heart; inanition.
III. Dreamof excessivefatigue,paininthekidneys—signofbadfunction
ing of the kidneys; canals overfull. Dream that one is swimming with
difficultyandisindangerofdrowning—signof badfunctioningofthe kidneys;
inanition.
IV. Dream of songs, festivities, music, pleasure—sign of bad functioning
of the spleen; repletion of the canals starting from it. Dream of dangers,
battle, dispute, meals—sign of bad functioning of the spleen; inanition.
V. Dream of inextricable forests, steep mountains, trees—sign of bad
functioning of the liver; repletion. Dream of grass, lawns, bushes, fields—
sign of baa functioning of the liver; inanition.
Finally, dream of brooks, or murmuring springs, of waterfalls, is a sign
of anemia; and dream of murderers, hanging, strangulation is explained
by asthmatic suffocation.
It will be seen that this diagnosis by dreams is very similar, insomeof its
inductions, to that made in similar cases by Western physicians, but it is a
little more extended.
In any cose it is generally recognised to-day that painful nightmares,
suffocations with sensation of imminent death, reveal a choking in the great
vessels of the brain and the heart. It will be well to remove the threats of
congestion which they indicate by a modification of the way of living. So
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
alsointhe caseof frequent dreams oftotal or partial paralysis, which indicates
adefectivecirculationof theblood,an“ abnormalcompositionoftheelements."
Here at least dreams offer a sure interest, and it is even probable that it
was this practical application of oniromancy which formed in olden times the
rightly fundamental basis of this science, and we should be wrong to neglect
its instructive study under the pretext that the mystics and subsequently
the charlatans turned it aside from its most interesting purpose.
O N I B O M A N C Y 249
Ill
The Oracle-Dream
We give the following by way of information, for our work would
be incomplete if we did not place before our readers the elements of
Oniromancy,leavingitto theirreflection, their mentality,their observa
tion to decide to what extent they are able to use these elements with
profit and to give them their confidence.
First we nave, according to the Golden K ey o f the E gyptians
(followingMeruetde Saint-Mesmin), atable ofthe daysonwhichdreams
are of good or bad omen :—
January ..
February ..
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October ..
November
December
1.19, 27, 31
13, 23
7, 8,18
1,10, 17, 22
3, 9, 12,14
13.19, 23, 28
5,27
10, 20, 29, 30
1, 2, 4, 6, 9,14
10,17,20 ..
3, 5, 7, 9,12,13
4, 20
2, 6,10, 23, 30
5.13, 27 .,
5, 7,10,14,19
2.13, 27, 31
6, 10,15,18, 30
13, 16, 22, 23
13,16, 23, 31
3, 9, 27
8.13, 23, 30
6,25
10,20,29 ..
13,28,31 ..
Yon will be satisfied with them.
They will be against you.
They will be excellent.
They will be insignificant.
Don’t tell anybody.
Beware.
They will come true.
Bad dreams.
Fairly good.
The future is in danger.
They will sooncome true.
God help you.
They will be good.
Fate is unfavourable to you.
Don’t reveal them.
No results.
Fate is with you.
They will cause you pain.
Very good dreams.
Bad omen.
They will be pleasant.
Dreams of no importance.
Great joy.
Trouble at home.
250
Let us add to this table1the information that it is on the night of
Wednesday that dreams are most strongly informative as to business
matters, and on the night of Friday as to love affairs.
Dreams without value. According to Rankajou they are:—
(a) Dreams during the first hours of sleep during the time of digestion.
(b) Dreams of a person or a thing which we have recently heard spoken of.
(c) The feverish nightmares due to pain, to fright, to a book read, to some
thing seen.
(d) Dreams resulting from the manner of deeping, from the position of the
deeper.
(el Dreams due to illness or some obvious outside cause (noise, cold, etc.)
The true oracle-dream.—This comesinthe middle ofsleep, preferably
between three and seven o’clock in the morning, when the digestive
functions are complete, when the body is in a good state of health,
when the mind has not been exposed to any excitement, and when
the normal position ofreposecausesnotroubleto anyorgan. According
to the Arab Ibn Sirin, the author of the first treatise on dreams, “ the
sleeper, lying on the right side, will have abstained from all excess of
food or of drink. He will have gone to sleep with a light heart, an
easy conscience, after having obeyed the precepts of the Koran as
to prayers and ablutions.”
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
IV
Interpretation o f Dreams
These are the general rules as to the interpretation of dreams:—
(a) Thegravity, the importance of the events predicted are in direct
relation with the depth of impression produced in the dream by its
omen.
(b) The due date of the event predicted is in proportion:—
1. In the ease o f an anim al, to the time of its gestation, or incubation, or the
breaking of its egg.
2. In the case o f a thing seen, to the distance at which it was, in the dream.
3. In the case o f a recurring event, to its recurrence, etc.
(c) Apart from fairly numerous exceptions, the meaning is,
general, the opposite of the dream; thus dreaming of death means
marriage or happiness; of murder, safety; of a mirror, betrayal.
1 Seo also the tablo as to the in&uenceof the moon, at the end of this ehapter.
251
O N I R O M A N C Y
Id) Monstrosities, deformities, ugliness, are however evil.
ie) The right is good (also odd numbers); the left isfatal.
(f) All wudfelines, all huge animals, are evil.
(g) All domestic animals, especially if of light colour (except the
cat) are of good omen.
(A) Reptiles are the worst possible omens (slander, crookedness,
betrayal)^
(*) Fishes mean “ abundance and wealth ” ifthey arefine and appear
on the surface ofthe water; but if they remainat the bottom, “ serious
danger."
- (j) Interpretation relating to all birds seen in dreams:—
On the right or East—beneficent.
On the left or West—maleficent.
Flying high—good luck.
Flying low—bad luck.
Singing—success.
Hiding the head—bad sign.
Turning it away—upset.
Head under wing—illness of a much
loved person.
Coming above you—beware.
Wounded—betrayal.
(k) Fruit means “ abundance ” unless its season is past at the time
of the dream, in which case it means “ duck."
(l) Vegetables ere a deplorable omen, with two exceptions (mush
rooms and peas).
(m) The variousparts o f the body indicate the persons to whom your
dream refers:—
A dream of a head relates to-day to yourself; amongst the Greeks to your
father.
A dream of teethrelates to-day to a near relative.
A dream of a right hand relates to-day to your brothers and sisters; amongst
the Greeks to mother, son, friend or brother.
A dream of a left hand relates to-day to your children; amongst the Greeks
to mistress, daughter or sister.
A dream of the right foot relates to-day to your parents or grandparents;
amongst the Greeks to your slave.
A dream of a leftfoot relates to-day to your servants; amongst the Greeks to
your Blave.
(n) In the case of a dream of illness, of pain, always consult the
doctor.
(o) Weapons are always a bad omen—betrayal or break.
(p) It is never lucky to dream of an animal o f the same sex as the
sleeper; the opposite is of course a good sign.
\q) All dreams of efforts foretell difficulties to surmount. If, how
ever, these efforts are weak or crowned with success, you may expect
a happy ending. If on the other hand the task dreamed of is difficult,
this is a sign of serious obstacles.
262 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
(r) A light, brilliant, new orfu ll article is a happy omen.
($) A dark, dull, old, used or empty article is evil,
it) Going up is alwaysgood.
(u) Going down, always bad, denotes at least a decrease.
(v) It is preferable not to dream of insects (worries, cares).
(as) Dream of living relatives orfriends with whom you are on good
terms is a lucky sign.
(y) For a girl to dreamthat she sees herselfmarried means “ break,
accident, possibly death.”
(z) All dark or black shades are bad omens; light shades on the other
hand have a cheerful meaning. Any violent colour indicates excessive
passion; any colour missed with black has meaning contrary to that
which it has when alone.
These are the chief meanings:—
Bright red—strong love.V
After having given these general rules, there only remains for us
to draw up our own Key to Dreams at once synthetic and reasonable
(as far as this is possible), only by way of information of course, as our
very scepticism docs not prevent our being conscientious. For this
task we have consulted the best ancient and modem sources,
Artemidorus as well as Thylbus, Professor Enigma and the Countess
Tady, the dictionary of Occultism of Desormes and Basile, etc., etc.
We have adoptea the triple ru le:—
1. Not to waste too much time on dreams which are too vague, too rare or
too bizarre.
2. To broaden the meaning ofthese images, for here more than in any other
divinatory art would detail run the risk of landing in a very morass
of charlatanism.
3. To neglect explanations which are silly for the very reason that they seem
plain, or which have an unpleasant after-taste, such as for instance
that threading pearls in a dream means a love affair.
Bright red—strong love.
Rea and black—furious hatred.
Dark red—violent passion.
Light red—affection.
Dark yellow—low desires.
Light yellow—material ease.
Dark green—evil, threatening.
Light green—serenity, cheerfulness.
Dark blue—domineering,
light blue—purity, happiness.
White—family joys.
Black—mourning, death.
Chestnut—melancholy, danger.
White stones—happy omens.
V
New Key to Dreams
253
We shall in the main give those meanings which have unanimous
opinion in their favour, this being a sign of tradition and m oral value.
O N I R O M A N C Y
Abandonment—misfortune, quarrel.
Abbey—consolation for worries.
Abduction—success.
Absinthe—sorrow, illness.
Abyss (go along one)—approaching
danger.
Abyss((all intoone)—immediatedanger.
Abyss (see one)—wise warning.
Accident—danger.
Accident (to the head)—danger to one
self or to one's father.
Accident (to the right foot)—danger to
one's brother or sister.
Accident (to the left foot)—danger to
a servant.
Accident (to the right hand)—danger to
one’s mother.
Accident (to the left hand)—danger to
one's children.
Accused (to be)—by a man, good news.
Accused(tobe)—bya woman, bad news.
Actor—falseness, deceit.
Aeroplane—ambition, success.
Affront—blazing success.
Alms (given)—great joy.
Alms (received)—loss of employment.
Altar—joy, consolation.
Amazon—mysterious woman.
Ambulance—wound, illness.
Ambush—betrayal.
Amputation—wounds, injustices, dis
appointments.
Angel—protection, happiness.
Angdus—great joy.
Anger—reconciliation.
Animals (a herd)—prosperity.
Ants—activity, health.
Anvil—fruitful perseverance.
Applause—reproach.
Apricots—health, pleasure.
Army (on the march)—a great event
coming.
Asphyxia—signs of asthma, see the
doctor.
Assembly ofmen—trickery.
Assembly of women—gossip.
Asthma—consult the doctor.
Attack—serious danger.
Avalanche—serious danger.
Avenue—happy and easy life.
Axe—strength of character.
Azalea—expensive flattery.
Babies—luck in home.
Bag (full)—produce, abundance.
B ag (empty)—laziness, cares.
Bait—deceit, cheating.
Balcony—ephemeral honours.
Balcony (collapsing)—catastrophe.
Ball—opportunity to seize.
B all (rolling)—success delayed.
Bank of moss—small task.
Banner—glory, honours.
Baptism—
desire fulfilled.
Barking—beware.
B arley—joy and health.
Barra, (full)—abundance, wealth.
Barrel (empty)—poverty.
Barrel (full)—prosperity.
Barrel (empty)—tightness of money.
Bam—poverty.
Basement of house—anguish, torment.
Basket (full)—pleasanl invitation.
Basket (empty)—passing worry.
Basket (full)—economy, success.
Basket (empty)—beware.
Bat—torment and peril.
Bath—see water.
Bath (too hot or too cold)—passing
worry.
Battle (field)—illness.
Beans (white)—hateful omen.
Beans(black)—grave danger imminent.
Bear—awkward friend.
Beard (cut)—danger of illness.
Beard (fair)—good counsel.
Beard (black)—betrayal.
Bed (well made)—cleanliness, rest.
264 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Bed (unmade)—disorder, mistake.
Bed (empty)—appointment, disappoint
ment.
Bed(occupied)—indisposition, illness.
Bed (go to)—indecision, bother.
Bees—successful work.
Bees (stinging)—bother, check.
Bees (dead)—loss of money.
Beggar—check, sorrow.
BeS—good news.
Bed (alarm)—alarms justified.
Bdt—faithful love.
Bitch—joy, satisfaction.
Bicycle—early success.
Binoculars—
you. are being deceived.
Biscuits—cheerful reunion.
Bits—hatred, jealousy, wound.
Birth—good luck.
Birds—]oy, good news.
Birdcage—serious slander.
Blindness—deceit, betrayal.
Blows—break.
Blade (of knife)—betrayal.
Blood—illness, wound.
Bouauet—
disappointment.
Bame (full)—joy, pleasure.
Bottle (empty)—disappointment, illness.
Bottle (broken)—great quarrel
Boat (sailing)—fortunate journey.
Boat (stationary)—joy, good news.
Boat (upset)—serious worries.
Boot (entering into harbour)—fruitful
labour.
Bones—
omen of catastrophe.
Boar—violent enemies.
Bolt—secret sorrow.
Brigand—squabble, loss of money.
Broom(sweep)—bother discovered.
Breast—wealth, abundance.
Bread (white or fresh)— coming good
luck.
Bread (brown or stale)—fatigue, worry.
Bridge (crossed)—happy solution.
Bridge (broken)—difficult position.
Break—
-renewal of affection.
BuUd—position threatened.
Butler—excellent omen for material in
terests.
Buttons(sew them on)—conjugal happi
ness.
Bums—success.
Bushes—triumph overobstacles.
Burglar—keep it secret.
Burial—early marriage.
Burial (one’s own)—serious illness.
Bumblebee—thoughtlessness, importu
nity.
Butterfiy—inconstancy.
Cave (deep)—anguish.
Candle (alight)—birth.
Candle (out)—death.
Candle (wax)—birth.
Cage (empty)—break, marriage broken
off.
Cage (full of birds)—cares passed away.
Camp—rest and holiday.
Cards(playing cards)—loss of money.
Cards(to play)—useless expenditure.
Cards (to see them played)—deceit,
cheating.
Cards(to read them)—dangerousunder
taking.
Cavern—great sorrow.
Camel—hard work.
Cat—treason, perfidy.1
Castle—happy event.
Castle (in ruins)—distress.
Caterpillar—betrayal.
Cake—family festivity, or pleasant sur
prise.
Cemetery—news of death.
Cherries (sour)—tears threatened.
Cherries (sweet)—joy in love.
Chain—sorrow, suffering.
Chariot—sure reward.
1According to Halil-el-Mosri, s classic of Oniromancv, very very varied interpretation :—
To see one walking alone—probable journey by water, slowing cat—petty slanders. Scratch
ing cat—
deceit. Furring cat—hypocrisy. Of a near relative. Angry cat—quarrela—
cat
which one kills, danger escaped, etc., etc., etc.
O N I R O MA N C Y
Chocolate—satisfaction.
Child (ugly)—contrariness.
Child (beautiful)—satisfaction.
Child (punish it}—injustice.
Child (see it ill)—heart trouble.
Chilblains—indiscretion, worry.
Cheese—
gain, profit.
Chestnuts (cook them)—you will be ex
ploited.
Chestnuts (eat them)—difficult business
matter.
Cider—
joy, gaiety.
Cistern—serious peril.
Cloister—despair and peace.
Clock—important business matter.
Cloak—protection.
Clouds—
squabble.
Coffee (drink it)—fatigue, cares.
Coffee (upset it)—upsets.
Coffee (beans)—bad omen.
Country (devastated)—Borrow, danger.
Coffins—joy, recovery.1
Coed (burning)—happiness, success.
Coed (burnt out)—sorrow, death.
Cottage—happy and simple life.
Coachman—vain exertion.
College—gaiety.
Comedy—you are being laughed at.
Cock (crowing)—early success.
Cock (not crowing)—rivalries, quarrels.
Convent—see cloister.
Cow(fat)—abundance.
Cow (lean)—famine.
Confinement—
joy, prosperity.
Crutches—accident, infirmity.
Cradle—hope realised.
Crown (of gold)—honours, vanity.
Crown(of leaves)—sign of pleasure.
Crape—
-early mourning.
Crime (see it)—exaggerated fear.
Crime (commit it)—victory.
Cross —good luck, triumph.
Crab—separation, disunion.
Crowd—importunity.
Currants—squabbles, disputes.
Currants (out of season)—unfaithful*
ness.
Cyclone—catastrophe.
255
once—gaiety.
Dancing (see it)—bad dream.
Deathagony (see one)—good omen for
the patient.
Death agony (one’s own)—take care of
yourself.
Declaration (of love)—mystification.
Decoration—joy, honours.
Derailment—disorder.
Descent—castastrophe.
Desert—disappointment, abandonment.
Detonation—scandal.
Devil—torment, peril.
Death(seeone’s own)—flourishinghealth
Dice—fatal loss.
Discussion—dispute, perfect agreement.
Ditch—obstacle.
Ditch (to jump it)—joy, success.
Ditch (to fall into)—cares at home.
Donkey—hateful omen.
Donkey(running)—disappointment, sor
row.
Donkey (resting)—slander.
Donkey (black)—illness of a near
relative.
Donkey (braying)—serious troubles.
Dog—friendship or faithful love.
Dog (white)—nappy omen.
Dog (grey or black)—misfortune.
Dog (yellow)—ruin.
Dog (red)—discord or war.
Dog (mad)—enmity.
Dog (barking)—good sign.
Dog (bowling)—bad news.
Rove—
happy event.
Douche—charming news.
Roe—victory over one's enemies.
Doctor—illness soon.
Roll—ephemeral pleasure.
Drinking trough—unimportant losses.
* According to H alil:—To see oneself alive in a coffin—bod omen of death.
To see a living woman on a bier—her early marriage, etc., etc.
256
Drunkenness (one’s own)—sure success.
(Seeadrunkenwoman—indisposition).
Drowned person (see one)—sorrow
followed oy joy.
Drowned person (save one)—service
rendered.
Drown—coming danger.
Duck—anonymous letter.
Dud—discord without results.
Dungheap—dishonour.
Dungeon—fatal results.
Dwarf—enemies, failure ofundertaking.
Eagle—prosperity.
Eagle (dead)—ruin.
Eagle (wounded)—loss of money.
Earthquake—serious danger.
Ed (alive)—you will miss a success.
Bd (dead)—revenge carried through.
Eggs (broken)—quarrel, misfortune.
Eggs (whole)—abundance.
Eggs (red)—
-abundance.
Eggs (scrambled)—discord.
S ant—certain victory.
aider—quiet happiness.
Empress—fatal pride.
Enemies—salutary distrust.
Epaulets—honours, triumph.
Bade (emigration)—break, sorrow.
Byes (beautiful)—sincere love.
Eyes (diseased)—bad business.
Eye (lost)—death of near relative.
Eclipse —failure, death.
Easy chair—change of employment.
Fall—confusion, anemia.
FaU (frequent dream)—weak heart
(physiology).
Fainting—
coming illness.
Fan—gaiety, futility.
Famine—vain efforts.
Family—sign of joy.
Fairy—wishes realised.
Fasting—unfounded fears.
Fair (country—enjoyments.
Factory—profitable labour.
Face (cheerful)—happiness, long life.
T H E O C C U L T
Face (sad)—worry, idleness.
Face (beautiful)—pleasant visit.
Face (ugly)—premature death.
Fear (have it)—take care of your heart
(Physiology).
Feather—frivolity, worry.
Feather (coloured) — see generally
colours.
Fishbones—obstacles surmounted.
Fireplace (with fire)—family pleasures.
Fireplace (empty)—sorrow, loneliness.
Figures—cerebral anaemia.
Fire (to light it)—important event.
Fire (with smoke)—threat of a quarrel.
Fire (without smoke)—enjoyment,
health.
Fire (conflagration)—great joy.
Fire (burning)—dangerous enemies.
Fire(gone out)—sorrow.
Fig—sincere love.
Ftshing (for big fish)—joy, happiness.
Fishing(forsmall fish)—limited success.
Fishing (see it)—betrayal.
Fight—failure of business matters.
Ftr tree—
constancy.
Fir tree (in forest)—health, long life.
Flag—change, success.
Flame (erect)—triumph.
Flame (brilliant)—success.
Flame (red)—anger.
Flame (gone out)—disillusion.
Flowers—joy, love.
Flowers (wlute)—sign of death.
Flowers (red)—recovery from illness.
Flowers (received)—kindness.
Flowers (given)—friendship.
Flowers (in the garden)—country walk.
Flowers (faded)—disappointed nope.
Flies—teasing.
Fleas, lice—unpleasantness, worry.
Fleas, lice (kill them)—triumph over
worries.
Flight (aerial)—triumph, honour.
Foot (cut off)—pain, damages.
Foot (diseased)—affairs going well.
Foot (soiled)—tribulations, bothers.
Fox (kill it)—success.
S C I E N C E S
257
O N I B O M A N C Y
Ford—success, victory.
Follow one’s own funeral—notable
success.
Fountain—see water.
Frog—indiscretion.
Friend—good omen.
Fury (harpy)—very bad sign.
Fusee—ephemeral pleasure.
Gag—betrayal, accident.
Gaiety—coining sorrow.
Gallows—success.
Game (alive)—hope of wealth.
Game(dead)—gam, present.
Game(high)—loss of money.
Garden (with flowers)—pleasant sur
prise.
Garden (bare)—passing shortness of
money.
Gambling—good, if one loses.
Gcunbling—bad, if one wins.
Ghost (white)—joy, consolation, happi
ness, health.
Ghost(black)—sorrow, deceit, mourning.
Ghosts (several)—distress.
Ghost (speaking)—advice to listen to
Ghost (dead)—long and happy life.
Ghost(dressed)—threatof serious illness.
Giant—too much ambition, oheck.
Gloves (to put them on)—pleasure trip.
Gloves (to take them off)—upset.
Gloves (lose them)—commit a blunder.
Gloves(coloured)—see generally colours.
Gloves (clean)—satisfaction.
Gloves (soiled)—bother, insult.
Gloves (with holes)—humiliation.
Glass (full)—sentimental message.
Glass (empty)—poverty, distress.
Glass (broken)—omen of success.
Gossip—spite, uneasiness.
Goat (white)—inconstancy in love.
Goat (black)—coming misfortune.
God (to see him)—assured success.
God (pray to him)—consolation.
God (speak to him)—happiness.
Goose—
abundance.
Gout—illness.
Goup—efforts to success.
Goose—insincere compliments.
Gold—loss of money.
Grind (com)—abundance, wealth.
Grind (coffee)—pleasant success.
Grind (pepper)—sorrow, melancholy.
Grasshopper—omen of loss.
Gun (cannon)—hope unfulfilled.
Gun—deceptive gam.
Gulf—
see abyss.
Guillotine—see scaffold.
Guitar—declaration of love.
Gtdl—safe journey.
Hair—costly trickery.
Harlequin—love of the unknown.
Halo—esteem, glory.
Hangman—bad news.
Hat—bitter disillusion.
Hay—profitable business.
Hail—worries, sorrow.
Hall—loss of money.
Hammock (fall out of)—unstable
position.
Hammock(lying in it)—carelessness.
Harp—pleasure, happiness.
Hand—flattery.
Hand (cut off)—disunion, loss of a
friend.
Hand (dirty)—visit from an applicant.
Hammer—lack of skill, imprudence.
Hanged person —agreeable surprise.
Harvest (good)—wealth, abundance.
Harvest (bad)—exploitation.
Hearse—triumph, festivity.
Hell—quarrels.
Hermit—quiet life.
Hedge (jumped across)—get out of a
difficulty.
Hedge (not jumped)—obstacle.
Hedgehog—struggle, difficulties.
Heron(to the left)—miscalculation, fail
ure.
Heron (to the right, or on one foot)—
good luck.
Hen (white)—festivity.
Hen (black)—news.
258 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Hen (coloured)—honest competence.
Hen (fat)—wealth.
Hen (thw)—mediocrity.
Hens (several)—scandal and gossip.
Hen (pecking)—ruin.
Head (living)—good omen.
Head (dead)—mourning, ambush.
Head (swollen)—wealth, pride.
Head (big)—power.
Head (cut on)—liberty deliverance.
Head (shaved)—very bad omen.
Horseman (galloping)—success in an
undertaking.
Horseman (falling off)—danger of great
reverses.
Horse (white)—wealth, success.
Horse (black)—sorrow followed by
pleasure.
Horse (grey or piebald)—unquiet life.
Horse (coloured)—small profit.
Horse (harnessed)—
good omen.
Horse (running)—early success.
Horse (falling)—sad news.
Horseshoe—happy journey.
Honours (rendered)—good omen.
Honours (received)—dander.
Hospital—
-distress, sorrow.
HoUy—honour well kept.
Honey—success in business.
Hunchback—happiness.
Hut—isolation, solitude.
Hunting—useless labour.
Hunting horn—sorrow, check.
Hunger—vain efforts.
Hyacinth—sincere affection.
lee—
ambushes, dangers.
Ice (cream)—profitable gain.
Idlers—important counsels.
Idiot—upset.
Idol—omen of bad luck.
IUumination—
ephemeral joy.
IUne3S—melancholy, sorrow.
Inn—worry, bothers.
Infirmity—you will help a friend.
Iron (red not)r-risky undertaking.
Island—abandonment.
Itiy—faithful friendship.
Impasse—
foolish undertaking.
Jaguar—bad omen.
Jam—squabbles with friends.
Jam (to eat it)—happy omen.
Jaundice—unforeseen wealth.
Jewels—money affairs.
Jewds (precious stones)—various
according to the stone.
Jewds (imitation)—unlucky vanity.
Jealousy—hide your happiness.
Journey—hazardous enterprise.
Judge (one)—good omen.
Judges (several)—discord, break.
Key—appointment missed.
Kitchen—good profit.
Kiosk—adventure in the country.
Kdling—fatal omen.
Knife—
danger, peril.
Knot—embarrassment, difficulties.
Kiss—deceit, betrayal
Lambs (carry them)—complete satis
faction.
Lambs(killthem)—serious menace.1
Lawyer—lawsuit, poverty.
Lace—
frivolity.
Ladder(going up it)—patience, success.
Ladder (going down it)—success doubt
ful.
Ladder (to fall off it)—total failure.
Lark (flying)—coming wealth.
Lark (singing)—pleasant news.
Lark (caught)—loss of money.
Labourer—prosperity, wealth.
labyrinth—mystery revealed.
Lamp (alight)—dear business.
Lamp (extinguished)—you are being
duped.
Lantern—be prudent.
Laurel—
content, success, marriage.
Laurd (pick it)—triumph.
Laurd (to be crowned with it)—vanity,
withanditsworries (Priettgaby P. Vienon).
Laughter—coming sorrow.
Leaves (budding)—
-birth.
Leaves (dead)—serious illness.
Legacy—loss of money, distress.
Legs (pains in)—cares, sorrow.
Legs (cut off)—sad news.
Legs(Wooden)—support lost.
Letter (received)—news very soon.
Letter(sent)—neglect of friendship.
Letter (anonymous)—worries soon.
Letter (illegible)—crooked business.
later (torn)—break.
Light (to, a candle, a lamp, a fire)—
success in love.
Limp, Limping—bard earned success.
Lightning (to tne right)—happy omen.
Lightning (to the left^fam uy discord.
Lyps—frankness, security.
Lizard—wise distrust.
Linen (clean)—considerable legacy.
Linen (white)—marriage, happiness.
Linen (soiled)—illness, death.
Linen (worn out)—ruin.
Linen (washed)—disorder, difficulty.
Linen (changed)—a visit soon.
Lion—powerful adversary.
Lighthouse—good advice, protection.
Load—fruitful effort.
Lottery—bad luck.
Lock (broken)—risk of theft.
Loft—see bam.
Lyre—hope.
Maps—long journey.
Matches (burning)—honour, success.
Matches (not lighting)—misunderstood
affection.
Mason—death, legacy.
Man with one arm—bother.
Marble—unfeeling friend.
Marriage—death.
Mask—betrayal, lies.
Mass—internal joy.
Magpie—bad omen.
Marsh—see water.
Medal—vanity, success.
Meat—
gaiety, profit.
O N I R O
Mirror—gallantry.
Mistletoe—happy omen.
Military cap (put it on)—
triumph.
Military cap (take it off)—disappoint
ments.
Milk (drink it)—peaceful happiness.
Milk (upset it)—unrealisable plan.
Millstone—enormous efforts.
Mill (going)—joy, wealth.
Mill (stopped)—sorrow, useless efforts.
Mid (windmill)—journey.
Mm (watermill)—difficult undertaking.
Money(to find it)—trouble threatening.
Money (lost)—unhoped for success.
Money(counted)—important gain.
Money (spent)—ruin.
Moon—fatal omen.
Moon (full)—delay.
Moon (increasing)—deceit at home.
Moon (pale)—sorrow.
Moon (misty)—illness.
Mother—
good omen.
Monk (dressed in white)—promise of
success.
Money—loss of money.
Monster—omen of misfortune.
Mountain (climb it)—improvement.
Mountain (go down it)—eign of the
opposite.
Monkey—mockery.
Mouse—loss of money lent.
Murder—see crime.
Mud—serious worry.
Muddy (to get)—coming danger.
Mushrooms—long life, protection.
Mute (at funeral)—good news.
Muff—
comfortable life.
Mustard—bad sign.
Mule—business difficulties.
Museum—intellectual nleasure.
Music (pleasant)—good omen.
Music (discordant)—slander.
Nads—unexpected news.
Nails (twisted)—great difficulties.
Naked (to be)—insult, poverty.
Naked(see some one)—scandal, slander.
UANCY 268
260
Nails (finger, cut)—worry, quarrel.
Nails (finger, bitten)—pain.
Needles—spite, slander.
Needles (packet of)—bothers, cares.
Needles (falling)—lawsuit, worries.
Needles (broken)—loss of work.
Necklace—ephemeral feeling.
Nets (full)—wealth.
Nets (empty)—poverty.
Nets (torn)—disappointment.
Negro—beware.
Nest (seen from outside)—birth, profit.
Nest (full)—omen of good luck.
Nest (full of serpents)—great worry.
Nettles—suffering, betrayal.
Nightmare—danger, indigestion.
Night (clear)—success, happiness.
Night (dark)—sign of bad luck.
Noise—worry, quarrel.
Notary—receipt of money.
Number—profit, present.
Numbers—1
Nun—protection, consolation.
Nurse—prosperity.
Nuts, hazelnuts—difficulties which can
be overcome.
Oak tree (cut down)—loss of a friend.
Officer—fortunate event.
Olives—olive tree, peace, reconciliation.
Old man—happiness in the family.
One-eyed person—troublesome omen.
Oven (alight)—ease, abundance.
Oven (gone out)—distress.
Owl—don’t start anything next day.
Ox (fat)—abundance.
Ox (thin)—bad harvest.
Ox (yoked)—quiet happiness.
Ox (mad)—quarrel.
Ox (stopping)—fatal indecision.
Oysters—easy and sure profit
Pancake—pleasure, surprise.
Palace (see it)—distress, sorrow.
Palace (inhabit it)—pride in the wrong
place.
>See note at
T H E O C C U L
Panther—fatal omen.
Park—pain, melancholy.
Parrot—indiscretion, slander.
Penknife—squabble, unfaithfulness.
Peacock—pride in the wrong place.
Peacock (with spread tail)—rich
marriage.
Perfumes—see Smells.
Pearl—
disillusion, sorrow.
Peas (green)—perfect happiness.
Peas (ary)—coming marriage.
Pheasant—happy event.
Pin—wounded self-esteem.
Pit (to fall into it)—fatal omen.
Pitchfork—sterile labour.
Pictures—pleasures to come.
Pigeon—sincere love.
Pipe—small satisfaction.
Pipe (broken)—quarrel.
Pig—
difficulties, damage.
Platform—protection, honour.
Poppy—pleasure, amusement.
Pond—see Water.
Postman—letter coming.
Policeman—absolute safety.
Poverty—profitable change.
Post, X shaped,—success.
Procession—funeral.
Procession (wedding)—funeral pro
cession.
Presents (at New Year)—loss of money.
Prison (enter it)—fatigue, oppression.
Prison (come out)—recovery from
illness, fatigue.
Procession—luck on journey.
Promenade—tranquillity security, quick
joy.
Purchase—gain, profit.
Purse (full)—loss of money.
Purse (empty)—unexpected profit.
Public-house—
depressing influences.
Pump—difficulty, fatigue.
Quad—serious difficulties.
Rainbow—end of troubles.
Rain—despotism, tyranny,
id of chapter.
r SCIENCES
261
O N I R O M A N C Y
Raven (to the left)—danger of death.
Raven (to the right)—disappointment,
sorrow.
Railing—serious worry.
Rabbit (white)—friendship, success.
Rabbit (grey)—marrage.
Rabbit (black)—lies, reverses.
Rabbit (eat it)—recovery from illness.
Rabbit (kill it)—danger of betrayal.
Railwayengine—great journey.
Railway engine (derailed)—fatal hurry.
Rain (fine)—worry, difficulty.
Rain (heavy)—wealth, abundance.
Rain (storm)—accident.
Raisins(ripe)—covetousness,enjoyment
Razor—quarrel, dispute.
Raisins(eat them)—
-slight drunkenness,
beware!
Rat—hidden enemies.
Raft—safety.
Removal—change of employment.
Reaping—lucrative labour.
Reading—pleasure.
Ring—engagement, reconciliation.
Ring(as present)—marriage,protection.
Ring (broken)—divorce.
Riot—worries, jealousies.
River—see Water.
Road(broad)—happy life.
Road(narrow)—deceit.
Road(dusty)—disagreements.
Rope—fetters.
Rocks (at sea)—difficulties.
Rowing—aim attained.
Rose(given)—sympathy bestowed.
Rose (received)—worldly success.
Running—success.
Ruins—sorrow, reverses.
Safe, strongbox(full)—constant cares.
Safe, strong box(empty)—success in the
end.
Role—
loss, tightness of money.
Sand—uncertainty, disappointment.
Salt—excellent omen.
Salt (upset)—squabbles, sorrow.
Sailor—uncertainty, danger.
Scissors—quarrel, death of friend.
Seales (weighing)—legal business.
Scream—bad news.
Scaffold—honours, high position.
Scorpion—serious loss.
Seat (to sit down on it)—serious busi
ness.
Seat (of wood)—moderate profit.
Seat (of stone)—important profit.
Servant—tedious visit.
Sea (calm)—happiness, success.
Sea (stormy)—anger, check.
Serenade—sentimental jealousy.
Shelter (see a)—faithful friend.
Shelter (seek a)—worry threatening.
Shepherd—perfect happiness.
Sheep—good omen.
Sheet (bed)—prosperity, happiness.
Shaving—loss of money.
Silverplate—avarice, bothers.
Sing (near singing)—sorrow to endure.
Sing (oneself)—complete joy.
Silks—scandal, gossip.
Shipwreck(make)—delay.
Shipwreck(escape)—good omen.
Ship—see boat.
Sky (blue)—sign of happiness.
Sky (dark)—passing worries.
Sky (stormy)—change of position.
Skating—easy gain.
Skein(of yarn)—difficult position.
Skittles (play at)—pleasure.
Skittles(upset)—failure of plan.
Slaughterhouse—gains, success.
Smoke—disastrous business affair.
Smoke (going straight up)—difficulties
overcome.
Smoke (white)—small worries.
Smoke (grey)—painful worries.
Smoke(dark)—great sorrow.
Smells (pleasant)—good omen.
Smells (unpleasant)—great worry.
Snail—honours and slander.
Snow—beginning of love.
Snake—someone has a grudge against
you.
Snake(kill it)—victory.
262 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Song(sacred)—sign of sorrow.
Sorrow—
early consolation.
Souring—joy, wealth.
jSpufa^-mwsnit, betrayal.
Swifting—
insult, despising.
Spirits (celestial)—see Saints.
Spectacles—disgrace, melancholy.
Spinning tehee*—
poverty, weakness.
Squabble—affection, disagreement.
Stockings (silk)—money for yon.
Stockings (in holes)—approaching tight
ness of money.
Stockings (to be withouti-^e oarefol.
Stockings (to take them ofi)—change of
fortune, simplicity.
Stick—travel worries.
Stoutness—wealth.
Stoutness (lost)—poverty.
Stairs (to go up)—profitable effort.
Stairs (to go down)—loss of employ
ment.
Stairs (to fall down)—peril of illness.
Stars (pale)—life of poverty.
Stars (brilliant)—happy destiny.
S ta n (shooting)—certain success.
Straw (in stacks)—wealth, abundance.
Straw(in sheaves)—economy.
Straw (in bam)—income.
Straw (wet)—prison.
Straw(on fire)—money lost.
Slones-—
seePebbles.1
Sun(rising)—joy.
Sun(blazing)—success,triumph.
Sun(hidden)—straggles.
Sun(red)—discord, war.
Sugar—confidence betrayed.
Suicide—upsets.
Suit-case—shortjourney.
Swallow—family happiness.
Swallow (leaving the house)—unhappi
ness enters it.
Swallow (coming in)—good news from
afar.
Swallow(dead)—
lost affection.
* See notea at end of chapter.
Swallow(kill it)—ingratitude.
Sweets(receive them)—flattery.
Sweets (give them)—attentions well re
ceived.
Sweets(eat them)—futile spendings.
Swan(white)—happiness, prosperity.
Swan(black)—worries, cares.
Swan (swimming)—great success.
Sword—
success, victory.
Swim—see Water.
Table—(sit at)—pleasant comfort.
Tailor—bad faith.
Telegram—surprise.
Tear(in dress)—
-passing bother.
Tempest—danger, ambush.
Tent—unforeseen adventure.
Testament—omen of death.
Testament (destroyed)—coming legacy.
Thistle—disloyalty.
Thimble—quiet happiness.
Thom(pricking)—vexation, reproach.
Thom(drawn out)—success.
Thread(on reel)—lasting affection.
Thread(broken)—bad omen.
Thread(tangled)—great efforts.
Thunder—sorrow, Ulness.
Thunderstorm—danger threatening.
Thinness—loss of money.
Throne—change of position.
Thief—false friend.
Tiger—bad omen.
Tower—ambition realised.
Toad—warning of danger.
Tooth(growing)—pregnancy.
Tooth (falling out)—death of a relative
or a friend.*
Tooth(white)—success.
Tooth(bad)--illness.
Torek(burning)—happiness.
Torch (extinguished)—dishonour.
Too—lack of will power.
Tobacco—ephemeralpleasures.
Tomb—
long life.
Torrent—
danger, adversity.
• It is remarkable (hat this interpretation is the same in all keys to Dreams.
ONIRO
Tower—success, rise.
Trees (climb them)—greatness and
wealth.
Trees (fall from)—approaching mis
fortune.
Trees (struck by lightning)—despair.
Trees (cut down)—loss ofa loved one.
Trees (avenue of)—long happiness.
Trees (green or flowering)—unexpected
pleasure.
Trees (covered with fruit)—prosperity.
Trickery—beware.
Trap—betrayal.
Treasure—hope disappointed.
Tribunal—
lawsuit in prospect.
Tramp—lack ofinitiative.
Turkeycock—serious mistakes.
Tunnel—laborious undertaking.
Turtle dove—mutual love.
Ulcer—cases, sorrow.
Umbrella (in the hand)—lasting friend
ship.
Umbrella (open)—help, protection, sup
port.
Unibrella(shut)—security in business.
Umbrella(inside out)—coming change.
Umbrella(lost)—abandonment.
Umbrella(found)—valuable connection.
Undressing oneself—lack of foresight,
dishonour.
Unfailhfrdness—lasting love.
Uniform—adventure.
Velvet—honour, wealth.
Vengeance—longlawsuits.
Vermin(kill it)—fruitful gain.
Veil(torn)—secret revealed.
Veil (woman’s)—modesty.
Vtryim—great happiness.
Vinegar—jealousy, quarrel.
Violin—happy love.
Viper—see Snake.
Visit (paid)—injustice.
Visit (received)—
-flattery, sorrow.
Volcano(in eruption)—passion.
»Beenotes a
IfANCT 263
Volcano(extinct)—dangerousadventure.
Vomit—great worry.
Vulture—dangerous illness.
Vulture (kill it)—favourable luck.
Water (clear)—health, happiness.
Water (muddy)—dispute, sorrow.
Water (to bathe in it)—loss of a relative
or a friend.
Water(fresh)—imminent wealth.
Water(hot)—illness, accident.
Water (boiling)—happiness which flies
away.
TVater(to fallinto it)—persecution, ruin.
Water(running)—lasting happiness.
TVater(stagnant)—sorrow.
TVater(to swimin it)—ill-luck overcome.
TVater(inundation)—serious accident.
TVater(thingssettlingdowninit)—happy
omen.
Waterfall—abundance.
Wasp—spiteful enemies.
Walk(easily)—triumph.
Walk(withdifficulty)—difficulttriumph.
Walnuttree—
danger, misfortune.
TVeapom—plot, danger.
Wealth—disillusion, danger.
Weasel—dangerous woman.
Weasel(to km it)—considerable profit.
Weathercock—lack of resolution.
Wedding—short joy.
Tyeepiny—good news.
WeepingWillow—coming sorrow
Wheat—(see under “C"corn)
Wheelbarrow—suffering, poverty
Wheel(turning)—fortunate change.
Whistle(heard)—danger, dishonour.
Widowhood—satisfaction, marriage.
Wings (to have them)—your position
will improve.
Window (open) easy success.
Window (shut)—danger escaped.
Winding sheet—legacy soon.
TVind(gentle)—happiness.
TVind(storm)—misfortune,
end of chapter.
264 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Find—bliss.
Window(broken)—dispute, theft.
IFtwe (in bottle)—happy old age.
Wound—illness.
Women—lies, betrayal, quarrel.
Women(several)—mortification.
Women(pregnant)—pleasant news.
Wolf—suffering, adversity.
Wolf(kill it)—triumph.
Workingman—work and gain.
Worms—
small worries.
Wrinkle—disillusion.
Youth—good omen.
Zouave—success.
VI
Notes on the Key to Dreams
I. Thylbus in his Realm of Dreams speaks of the interpretation to
be given to numbers dream t of. According to him, if the figure is
higher than 22 (which is th at of the m ajor arcana of Taroc) it m ust
be reduced according to the usual occult method by adding its digits.
For instance:
829,608 = 8 + 2 + 9 + 5 + 0 + 8 = 27. And 27 = 2 + 7 =9.
Thus we give to numbers the meaning of the leaves of the Taroc
which may be summed up as follows:—
1. S kill—hence success.
2. Mystery—hence tangled or mys
terious business.
3. Fertility—hence fruitfulness of
current plans.
4. Stability—hence continuation of
current plans or business.
5. Inspiration—you will presently
have an interesting intuition.
6. Love—
you will ere long have a
pleasantexperiencein thisrespect.
7. Providence—protection will come to
you.
8. Justice—
you will have justice done
you in the case of a lawsuit,
contest, eto.
9. Prudence—take care.I
I
.
10. Fate—change in your position.
11. Strength—your effort will meet with
reward.
12. Sacrifice—trial is before you.
13. Death—conclusion of a cycle, of a
business, of an adventure.
14. Metamorphosis—
change,alteration.
15. Fatalism—your deeds are going to
have their result (good or bad).
16. Catastrophe—danger on the way.
17. Hope—don't be discouraged.
18. Darkness—ambush in the shadow.
19. Vnveiling—solution nearing.
20. Surprise—something unexpected.
21. Aberration—you are going to do
something foolish.
22. Absolute—
gnat success.
II. Precious stones.—Remember correctly the stone of which you
dreamt and give it its symbolic meaning. Here is a short list of these
meanings as commonly recognised:—
Amber—favours, profits. | Amethyst—satisfaction.
O N I B O MA N C Y
Beryl—good omen for affairs of the
heart.
Carbuncle—good omen in love affairs.
Chalcedony—material success.
Coral—peril at sea for you or some one
who is near to you.
Cornelian—victory over adversaries
(lawsuit, rivalry, etc.)
Diamond—business carried through
successfully.
Emerald—intellectual success.
Garnet—conclusion of a current matter.
Jet (Saturnian stone)—loneliness, wis
dom, austerity.
Lapis-lazuli—satisfaction in friendship
or love.
Malachite—danger escaped.
Opal (stone of black fate)—bad omen.
Ruby—rash act.
Sapphire—attainment of favour longed
for.
Topaz—triumph.
Turquoise—you acted wisely.
III. Wells.—Dreams of wells have given rise to numerous com
mentaries, the origin of which is the im portance of w ater in hot countries.
I t follows th a t the meanings attached to them by Eastern Oniro-
mancy m ust have a t least a local value. We give them anyhow as a
curiosity.
Draw clear water from a well—happy
marriage in prospect.
Draw muddy water—unhappy love in
prospect.
Full well—abundance of goods for the
house to which it belongs (if it is
possible to recognise it).
Well with water low—contrary meaning.
Well overflowing—the secrets of the
master will be betrayed.
Uncovered well on one's estate—assured
wealth.
Public well—the locality in which it is
situate will be fortunate.
Public well overflowing—contrary mean
ing.I
V
.
Well found on the road and where one
drinks—great success.
Digginga well—your secret loves will be
discovered.
Filling up a well—your secret loves will
have success.
Throwing someone into a well—very bad
sign.
Goingdownintoawell—a journey soon.
Falling into a well—illness, danger,
death.
Fallingfrom a dock tower into a well—
unhappy second marriage.
IV. Influence of the Moon from the onirocritic point of view.
According to some authors, and especially Easterners, the following
are the 28 meanings which correspond to the lunar month as regards
dream s:—
New Moon:—
1. Dreams generally cheerful.
2. Beneficent day. Bad dreams have little effect.
3. Useless dreams. Do not take any notice.
4. Good dreams alone will come true.
5. Fateful day. Dreams doubtftf.
6. Good day. Do not tell your dreams of the previous night.
266 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
First Quarter:—
7. Dreams generally come true.
8. Dreams relating to travel specially come true.
9. Dreams quickly come true.
10. Vain dreamB, for your day must have been good.
11. Tain dreams. Your day was anyhow.
12. True dreams. Your day was bad.
13. Dreams quickly come true.
Second Quarter:—
14. Very lucky day. Dreams doubtful.
15. True dreams following on a sad day.
16. True dreams following on a happy day.
17. Dreams come true within three days.
18. True dreams following on uneasiness.
19. Coming true soon.
20. True dreams after an interesting day.
Last Quarter:—
21. Day of rejoicing. Vain dreams.
22. Maleficent day. True dreams.
23. Day of ill-humour. False dreams.
24. Indifferent day. Vain dreams.
25. Maleficent day. Indifferent dreams.
26. Maleficent day. True dreams.
27. Day of enterprise. Doubtful dreams.
28. Indifferent day. Vain dreams.
CHAPTER V II
Se c o n d a r y D iv in a t io n s
I
Ancient Divinations
Cl a s s if ic a t io n s are sometimes difficult. A part from the great
divinatory sciences which we have just passed in review, dividing them
under the tw o heads of Deduction and Intuition, there are others
which are very interesting as well as rare, such as Voyance, Psychometry,
M irrors and their derivatives; others which are less so but are still
in use and are described in many popular pam phlets, such as Omens,
Oracles, Onomantics, the mystic influence of certain spoken phrases,
etc., others which have fallen into complete disuse, whilst in olden
tim es they swarmed. Of these we shall give a short list. These
various divinations depend mainly on Intuition and on Empiricism.
Some of them belong rather to the Magic Sciences, some to the
M etapsychical Sciences. The reader m ust therefore be indulgent
to a classification which perhaps he himself would make differently.
The main thing a t bottom is to avoid gaps, and the Table of Contents
will always enable him to find w hat he wants.
B ut even before devoting a few pages to each of these divinations
of second ran k ,1 let us shortly mention some of the innumerable ways
of ancient divination, most of which, we repeat, have fallen into disuse.
We shall in this draw on the Dictionary of Occultism of Desormes
and B asile:—
In olden tim es, as a m atter of fact, men drew their omens from all
kinds of observations. For instance from the clouds (nephelomancy),
the winds (austromancy), the smoke of the hearth (capnomancy),
the flight or the song of birds (omithomancy), the flame of a lam p
(lampadomancy), the smoke of incense (thurifum ia), the ashes of a
sacrifice (spodomancy), the w ater of a fountain (pegomancy), etc.,
etc.
• We call them this so as to distinguish them from the preceding better known ones,
and notwith the after-thought of considering them leeainteresting. Voyanoc and Psychometry
i the metapsychical sciences, and being
267
They also drew them from the figures made by a handful of things
thrown'haphazard on a flat surface, such as pebbles or peas (derom ancy),
salt (alomancy), dice or knucklebones (astragalomancy, ragalomancy),
pearls (margaritomancy), earth (geomancy), barley flour (crithomancy).
Further from the -examination of the skull (craniomancy), the
entrails (anthropomancy), the bones (osteomancy), the lines of the
forehead (metopomancy), the nails (onychomancy), the eyes (oculo-
mancy), the stomach (engastrimancy), the nerves of the dead (necyo-
mancy), the boiled head of an ass (kephalonomancy).
N aturally the lines of the hand (chiromancy) furnished and still
furnish divinatory data, as also the cards (cartomancy), the hand
writing (graphology), dreams (oniromancy), the stars (horoscopy),
to which special and more interesting arts'w c have devoted separate
chapters.
Other elements are also met with, such as the ripples formed on the
water by speech or by the wind (aeromancy), the sudden meeting of
an animal (apantomancy), the number of letters in the family name
(arithmancy), the movements of a hanging key (clidomancy), the
crackling of a branch of laurel thrown into the fire (daphnomancy),
the sound or the image made by the fall of a body into the w ater
(lecanomancy), the appearance of wine (ocnomancy), the etymology
of names (onomamancy), the arrangement of pieces of dry wood found
on the road (xylomancy), the remaining letters of words w ritten in
the ash after breath of wind or other (tephramancy), the sound of a
figtree shaken by the wind (sycomancy), the way of dressing (stoliso-
mancy), the lines striking the eye on opening haphazard a volume of
Horace or Virgil (stolcneomancy, rhapsodomancy), the howling of
dogs (ololygmancy), the figures made by molten lead dropped on the
ground (molybdomancy), the reflection of a m irror (crystallomancy),
the shape of melting wax (ceromancy), etc., etc.
There is no end to the enumeration of everything which enabled
diviners to make predictions. The greater part of the tim e it was pure
fancy, childishness, imposture. B ut some ways of divination have
survived, and some may be seriously considered, because, as we have
stud, they are really disturbing, or because they are based on data of
value. We have studied the great divinations. Let us pass on to
omens and oracles, to onomantics, etc.I
I
268 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
II
Omens
Men have always believed th at signs due to the intervention of
occult powers were able to give them information as to more or less
near events affecting them , whether on m atters relating to themselves
individually or on m atters relating to their country or even to a whole
group of nations. Thus it was thought th a t the appearance of a
comet in the sky announced a w ar; or more modestly, th a t a raven
seen on leaving one’s house and going towards the left foretold a worry
during the day. I t is even curious th a t of the word “ sinister ” which
in Latin simply means “ to the le ft” but denotes “ of bad omen,” the
word “ sinister ” should have been made, the meaning of which is
well known.
Well informed people, like the Em peror Julian, attached great
im portance to omens. Even a scientist like the surgeon Ambroise
Pare believed in prognostications.
S E C O N D A R Y D I V I N A T I O N S 269
Omens have always been divided into two classes:—
1. Natural omens, drawn from the elements, from plants and animals,
omens applying only to things which are to happen in the ordinary
course of Nature and thus will happen entirely outside the human
will. In exceptional cases the Church allows belief to be accorded
to these omens, since, according to St. Paul, “ God may sometimes
reveal to men the secrets of the future.”
2. Artificial omenswhich giveinformation as to eventswhich may happen
through the human will. Thus for instance the asking of the gods
whether to undertake a given business or not. The Church forbade
them, claiming that they were but illusion, lies and vanity. On
various occasions the Bishops in council decided to punish those
who professed “ to foretell by all the means which the devil uses
to give certainty to uncertain matters.” But it is curious that
tho Church, whilst refusing to believe in the truth of oracles, should
profess belief in devils.
N either do we w ant here to give any opinion as to the predicting
value contained in the meeting of a priest, or of a hunchback whose
hum p we touch. I t is especially by way of information for those persons
who claim to have observed th a t certain omens were followed by certain
results, th a t we have w ritten this chapter and drawn up the tables
which follow.
The “ science of omens,” very well known in olden times, drew
its prognostications from :—
( ) What is seen;
( ) What is received;
(c) What is done.
270
What is seen or met.—Superstitious people draw good or bad omens
from w hat they see or meet on the way, animals, plants, various things.
Often they have their trouble for nothing, for it m ust be remembered
th a t all things created by nature m ust of necessity be found some
where on earth I And further th a t if some very common animals
strike your eye, it becomes truly childish to believe th a t by so doing
they scatter an omen which through its infinite repetition would lose
all value. Thus in the thousand and one pamphlets devoted to omens
we Tead th a t the sight of a bee in flight foretells good and cheerful work,
and th a t of an ox promises wealth. How many travellers would
become rich through passing through the country where a t every
com er we m eet a team of oxen, and how the race of lazy people would
die out in a country where swarm millions of bees fluttering from
flower to flower in fine weather 1
Let us not exaggerate, and even if we do not confine ourselves
to putting all meetings to the credit of Chance, let us reduce omens of
this kind to a minimum, lim iting them to cases which are somewhat
out of the common.
Thus lim ited, we may say w ith good authors th a t:—
Good luck may be brought by the sight of an eagle, of a spider
(at night), of a wagtail, of a quail, of a piebald horse (luck in gambling),
of a squirrel (pleasure very soon), of a ferret (success), of a hedgehog,
of gulls on the masts of a boat (fortunate journey by sea), of a peacock
spreading his tail (happiness at home), as these meetings are not
frequent.
Bad luck may be brought by the sight of a spider in the morning
(sorrow) or a t noon (cares), of a bat which cries m flight, of a cuckoo
singing, of a dog howling at the moon1 (someone is dying in the neigh
bourhood), of a nawk or a kite (an enemy lies in wait for you), a weasel
(trouble at home), of an owl howling three times (serious bad luck),
of a serpent (betrayal), of a lizard (disappointment).
According to Belly, we should add these omens relating to anim als:
A donkey rolling in the dust—fine weather.
A cat rubbing its paw behind its ear—rain.
A toad—rain (rain as a m atter of fact drives it from its retreat).
A cock crowing on your wedding day—quarrels a t home.
A raven flying off to your left—bad news.
Two vultures together—death within two days of a person
you know.
A spider spinning its web—someone is plotting against you.*
* This is a specially interesting case, as a dog cm in fact divine tdepsychicaUy the pretence
of a dyingperson withinfairly extensive radius.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
271
Just as in the case of animals, we should be very careful about the
omens drawn from the sight of plants. For it would really be too
easy if, following the common beuef, we could be sure of never being
deceived in love owing to the fact that we saw a wisteria, and it would
be terrible if an old man were to harm you every time that your eye
lights on a fir tree!
Let us confine ourselves to somewhat more rare occurrences:—
See white heather—consolation if you have a sorrow.
Find afour-leaved clover—you will have great good luck.
Discover an aloe in bloom, (which does not happen very often)
—tears soon.
Look at heather faded—sorrow in prospect.
Transataumancy was the science of omens drawn from things
which unexpectedly met your eye. We will only mention a few:—
The rope of a hanged man, if a piece is given you by the person
who cut the suicide down—brings luck.
A candle falling—bad luck to fear.
Cross formed by two knives—bad omen.
Cross formed by two forks—slander about you.
Cross formed by a spoon and a fork—pleasure followed by
sorrow.
Cross formed by two matches—pleasure soon.
Horseshoe found on the ground—luck-bringer to keep.
Your shoe-lace coming untied—interesting news.
Spilt ink—trouble in current affairs.
We leave on one ride as too childish omens drawn from fires which
burn brightly or will not light (know howto lay them and have proper
chimneys, and they will always be all right I), from smoke which on
coming out of the chimney goes straight up, spreads or blows down
(blame the wind), of the kinds and directions or the rain (ditto), etc.
Let us only note the following beliefs which at least have the faith of
the peasant in their favour:—
Rain on St. Swithin’s day—forty days’ rain to come.
Red clouds at sunset—sign of wind for the night or the next
day (see below for a handful of proverbs).
Let us go on to meetings with persons, and note the best known:—
It is a good omen to meet on the road a madman (good luck
very soon), a hunchback, a trio formed of a postman, a soldier
and a white horse (wish I).
It is a bad omen to meet a priest, a gravedigger, a madman
ringing, a man without legs.
8 E C 0 N D A R Y D I V I N A T I O N S
272
What is received.—Ospcromancy was the name given to divination
from presents—good or bad—received by chance.
Good presents:—Black cat, white mouse, wliite rat, tortoise,
birds, mirror, crystal bowl, bunch of roses, penny with a
hole in it.
Bad presents:—Black pearl, sapphire, lapis-lazuli, weapons
(quarrel), plates, Turkish slippers, screen, perfume burner,
hour-glass, prism, amphora or tankard (fatal drunkenness),
yatagan (revenge), knife (cuts friendship).
What is done.—(A.) The following events are said to bring good
luck:—
To get caught up, upset matches, touch the hump of a hunchback,
break white glass, find a horseshoe, step into mud, upset wine on the
table, the left earringing (someone is speaking good of you), get up on
the right foot (good temper), drop an egg, give bread to a poor man,
sneeze, touch wood, hang up mistletoe in the home, etc.
(B.) On the other hand bad luck is brought by:—
Killing a cat, a dog, a toad, a night bird, a bee, a ladybird or a
spiderat night; putting on a wedding ring before being married (break
probable); having one’s wedding ring cut (divorce); breaking a plate,
a mirror, a bottle1; singing on a Friday, mimickingalame man, giving
away a horseshoe one has found; to treadonthe tail ofa cat, upsetsalt
or pepper (especially bothtogether), get up onthe left fout, be thirteen
at table, etc.
• • • • • •
Proverbs are the Wisdom of the People. They are worth what
they are worth. We give a handful here which are extracted from
an old almanac and refer to the seasons. These prognostications
are obviously the result of observations through thousands of years
and they must have been found true or they would not have been
continuallyquoted by Public Opinion. Atany rate itwould have been
difficult for us to omit such a list from the oracles given in a book of
divinatory lore.
Hail and thunder in February is the sign of a good autumn.
Much snow in February is the guarantee of a fine summer.
Snow in February puts little corn into the barn.
On the day of good St. Blasius winter cold decreases.
Fogin Marchbringsearlyrain—morefrostinMaythan you want.
Much wind in March brings marriage to the labourer’s daughter.
* It is also unluckyif a minorora glass breakssuddenlywithoutapparentcause. Numerous
coincidences (we know several ourselves) have confirmed this curious and sad omen.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
27S
S E C O N D A R Y D I V I N A T I O N S
Rain in April and dew in May bring a good harvest.
If it thunders in April—prepare your barrels.
Buds in April put little wine into the barrel.
Rain at Easter means small fruits of the earth.
Mud in May—dust in August (Picardy).
Cool May—big loaf (Lyons).
Rain in May—com in August.
Rain at St. Medard last for forty days.
(Humida Medardi pluvias lux usque minatus).
Unless St. Barnabas cuts the grass under foot.
(Barnabas sanctus fatiem jubet ire per herbas.*)
Married in August often collects no goods.
On St. Laurence’s day put the scythe into the bam.
OnSt. Lupusday hangupthe lamp(Picardy) (the watches begin).
Leave your place on St. Lambert’s day and you lose it.
October seminat, vina proebet cum came ferina.2
On St. Francis day start sowing and earlier if you like.
On St. Martin’s day all must is good wine.
On St. Clement’s day stop sowing wheat.
On St. Lucy’s day the day increases by the jump of a flea.
(Ad saltum pulicis fert Lucia lumina solis).
On St. Thomas’s day the day increases by a good step.
If the wind weeps at Christmas it is for a great Mend dying.
1 It will be seen that this is an entirely free and popular translation of the Latin proverb.
* All the tasks of October, vine harvest, sowing, hunting ore included in this Latin phrase.
4. Joy and gaiety.
5. Sorrow approaching. IX.
6. Surprise in love.
7. Platonic love.
8. Great joy to experience.
9. Change. V.
10. Great and cloudless love.
11. Entire faithfulness.
12. Great passion.
13. Expect sorrows. VII.
14. Fortunate news.
15. What you expect will happen.
16. Separation.
17. Bad news. II.
18. You will be desired.
19. You will be loved.
20. You will love. VIII.
274 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
21. Passing worry. IX.
22. Melancholy, suspicion.
23. Adventure and good luck.
24. Ton will be upset. IV.
25. Early journey.
26. Return and regret.
27. Realisation of your dreams.
28. Someoneis thinking of you. I.
29. Pains and tears. VI.
30. Unexpected event.
31. Yon nave admirers.
D a y s o f t h e W e e k
Monday.—Newacquaintance.
Tuesday.—Present. II.
Wednesday.—Anxiety. IV.
Thursday.—Proposal.
Ad v a n c e s .
1 day.—You will be happy.
2 days.—New friendship.
3 days.—Sorrow.
Friday.—Sorrow. X.
Saturday.—Settlement ofaffair.
Sunday.—Perfect friendship.
D e l a y s
1 day.—Someonethinks of you.
2 dayB.—Upset.
3 days.—Someone loves you.
T h e Tw e l v e Co u n s e l s o f Am ia
I. Love with all your heart those who love you.
II. Help those who suffer, even if they are your enemies.
III. Do not burden yourself with a hatoed—it is too heavy a load.
IV. Do not speak of your neighbour except to say good of him.
V. Let kindness always be in your heart.
VI. Keep back your tears—they are strength running away.
VII. Look upon childhood as sacred.
VIII. Give yourheartto himwhodeservesit and be faithful.
IX. Uplift your thoughts by healthy reading.
X. Have faith in wiU-power—it is the greatest of all powers.
XI. Understand the cares of man and never sulk.
XII. Remember that charm passes and that gentleness remains.I
l
l
Ill
Orade8
What will to-morrow be made of? Eternal question which almost
every man has asked every day since the world has bran. At the
very dawn oftime, when ourancestors lived on the edge of deep woods
or of great defensive lakes, when their only occupation was himting
so as to clothe and feed themselves, to watch the neighbourhood of
their huts or their caves so as to parry any hostile attack, and when
they began to cultivate the soil and to build towns, ever at each new
dawn they questioned the skies or the gods whomthey invented, and
275
S E C O N D A R Y D I V I N A T I O N S
when evening came they still asked, what will the coming hourbe made
of? in their anxiety to know if the day or the morrow would
be favourable to them ornot, if evil ordeath threatenedthem, whether
or not they might look forward to some good luck.
And back in farthest antiquity men either more cunning or better
instructed than their neighbours, and who were called diviners, sooth
sayers, sibyls,1 pythonesses (women, being very intuitive, were not
backward in wanting to teach others), offered their help to those who
held them in veneration, and distributed hope or fear.
The most eminent persons, chiefs, princes, monorchs, were haunted
by the same worries as the lower classes. They also consulted those
who claimed to be able to lift the veil of the future.
Further, is not each one of us inclined without knowing why, some
times to sadness, sometimes to gaiety, as i f unknown causes, inherent
in our surroundings, constituted a condition o f our soul f It is this
discoverywhichgavebirthto the ideaofdrawingfromoursurroundings
hints as to the future.
Before mentioning the various means of questioning the future*
we will, in order to facilitate interpretations, explain in a general way
and once forall the meaningofthe various signs metwith on consulting
some of them, such as coffee grounds, the white or the yolk of eggs,
earth, molten lead, etc.
A straight line—calm and quiet
existence.
Severed straight lines—old age free from
infirmity.
Fairly long straight line (Fig. 1)—long
peaceful life.
Straight line crossed by slanting lines
(Fig. 2)—accident or illness.
A curved line (Fig. 3)—false friend to
beware of.
Several curved lines—several false
friends.1
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
9
Wavy lines—journey (its length corres
pondsto the lengthof thelues).
A brokenline (Fig. 4)—heart sorrow.
Several broken lines—serious money
trouble.
A slanting line—your affairs will go
smash.
Slanting line crossing a curve—
you will
be offeredwork.
Several slanting lines crossing several
curves—you will be able to take
advantage of circumstances.
1 There were, according to the ancient authors (see Fr4d6rio de la Orange) 13 8ibyla:—
1. Sabella, who wrote a book on the wars of Alexander.
2. Libyca, of whom Euripides Bpeaks.
3. Delphica, whom Chrysippua considered wisdom personified.
4. Cymera, found in the chronicles of Norms and Puo.
0. Sarnia, mentioned by Eratosthenes.
6. Cumana (or Amalthea), bora at Cumin in Ionia.
7. Phrygia, of Ancyra, who foretold the death of Christ.
8. Hellespontica (or Marmessa), bora near Troy and mentioned by Herodotus.
9 and 10. Europea and Agrippa, without details as to date or place.
11. Tiburtina, who lived in a cave at Tivoli, near Borne.
12. Erithrea, with Cumana the best known, and of whom St. Augustine speaks.
13. Finally the Queen of Sheba, at die time of Solomon.
276
Slantinglinescrossingbrokenlines—you
will sailer and causesuffering in love.
Slantinglinescuttingwavyones—giveup
a dangerous journey.
Veryregularsquare(Fig. 5)—happiness,
pleasure, drunkenness, love and
legacy.
Small irregular squares—others are bin*
dering your success.
Small squares touching—
there is a
traitor near you.
Squares touching at the corners—you
are threatenedwith theft.
A well made triangle (Fig. 6)—unex
pectedlackinyouraffairs.
A truncated triangle—
jour position is
not safe.
Twotrianglestouching—
jour position is
stable.
Crown of triangles—success in love.
A large oval—marriage according to
your wishes.
Several ovals—success in your affairs.
A circle (Fig. 7)—small present of
money.
Severalcirclestouching—you will receive
money very soon.
A circle containing dots—you will soon
have a baby.
A circle containing three dots—it will be
a boy.
Scatteredcircles—do not waste the large
sums which you will receive.
Circle or oval crossed by lines (Fig. 8)—
disappointment corresponding to the
number of cuts.
A cross (Fig. 9)—you will hear of the
death of a relative or friend.
Two crosses (Fig. 9)—happy old age.
Threecrosses (Fig. 9)—you will attain a
very good position.
Numerous crosses—your existence will
be troubled by passions.
Crown(Fig.10)—smallwishcomingtrue.
Severed crotons in groups (Fig. 10)—an
influential person will give you a
great success.
T H E O C C U L T
Crown with cross (Fig. 11)—an obstacle
is in the way of your desire.
Crown of crosses—
omen of death.
House(withroofandwindow—Fig. 12)—
happiness at home or in the family.
House near a circle—you will soon own
some property.
House near a tree—your property will
be in the country.
Houseneara cross—it will be situate in
town.
House near a triangle—you will inherit
it.
Housenear a crown ofcrosses—you will
end your days there.
Window—you will be robbed.
Window near a cross—a fine threatens
you.
Four-legged animal (Fig. 13)—generally
favourable change of situation.
A donkey—cares at home.
A camel—
money tightness at home.
An elephant—success in your affairs.
A tiger—your energy will save you.
A lion—you will prevail over your
enemies.
A dog—you will have a faithful friend.
A pig—beware of excesses.
Humanface (fullface or profile) without
other parts (Fig. 14)—beneficial in
fluence from a new connection.
Human head with other parts upwards
(Fig. 15)—a protector is ready to
look after you.
Human head with otherparts downwards
(Fig. 16)—a Blight connection will
do you harm.
Human profile only—
efficacious pro
tection.
Thehumanface(fullfaceonly)—
someone
loves you.
Two human faces full face—you will
share this love.
Twofaces in a circle—you will marry
very soon.
Two faces divided by a line—you will
ask for a divorce.
S C I E N C E S
S E C O N D A R Y D I V I N A T I O N S 277
................
2
JL________________________________
A>
; : '-. .••*
4 ■
*
»
5 6
.H . \;..4CM
A
7
.**
*
» .•«*,
• «
^ o
q
. .ff V
y s .......
/ i • ••
j r r
* • “
f x
*
1
1
Vj
u ••• . *■'
* : *• <
v** t \ *•; *..»
. A *•*’ '
•i’* '•* ' ^ / f
7 4
,•■1 :.....
....
278 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
45 4b
279
S E C O N D A R Y D I V I N A T I O N S
Twofaces divided by a rose—marriage,
long life and perfect health.
Birds (Fig. 17)—pleasant news, quiet
happiness.
Severed fishes (Fig. 18)—great dis
appointment.
One only—invitation to a meal.
Serpent (Fig. 19)—calumny, jealousy,
betrayal, beware 1
Insects—unexpected annoyances.
A star or a flower (Fig. 20)—satisfied
love.
Severalstars orseveralflowers (Fig. 20)—
triumph and happiness in the home.
Ship (Fig. 21)—a journey very soon.
Ship near a cross—journey on account
of a death in the family.
Ship near palms—legacy, fruitful
journey.
Pedm or pcdmtree (Fig. 22)—money
success, prosperity or distant journey.
Oak—you will triumph over your
enemies.
Willow—youwillweepmuch.
Clover—you willreceivea sum of money.
Several tittle mounts (Fig. 23)—beware
of the company of dangerous people.
Fork(Fig. 24)—small upset, smallanger,
small disappointment.
Groupofforks (Fig. 24)—serious quarrel
which may lead to a break.
Tripod—violence will help you to
triumph over an enemy.
The letter M—some one is trying to kill
you.
The letter S—do not drink with your
enemies.
Thick and rounded blots—you will have
a lawsuit.
Largeandbadlyshapedblots—difficulties
in affairs.
Chain—love, perfect agreement.
N.B.—The drawings are by Professor
D e s c r ip t io n o f S o m e O r a c e e s
1 . Co f f e e G r o u n d s
In order to obtain a clear, definite and legible oracle, dry properly
(for 2 or 8 days) a few pinches of coffee which nas been ground, pressed
and passed through boiling water. When these grounds are thoroughly
dry, put them in a saucepan going towards the fire, add a glass of
water, heat on a gentle fire and take off just before boiling.
Then pour these grounds with the water on a flat, very level, very
white ana very dry plate. Take this plate in both hands and shake
in gently, moving it in all directions and blowing on it. You will
then see the grounds separating little by little from the water, spreading
and settling, finally sticking to the bottom of the plate which vou
will again tilt very carefully so th at the water may run off. Allow
to settle.
Then you will see th at the grounds have formed a large number of
signs, drawings, silhouettes, which you will simply have to examine
and interpret according to the foregoing explanations, remembering
always th at any vague or doubtful figure must not be taken notice of
(except dots which may be examined with a magnifying glass).
For further details on this study of coffee grounds you may consult
special tables, such as those drawn up by Florent Gamier1 who gives
a somewhat different method of proceeding—or else the various booklets
which, however, must not be relied on too much. The best of them
is that of Daguesah.2
Let us add in conclusion that Paul C. Jagot in his Treatise on Oecuit
Sciences and Practical Magic derives divination from coffee grounds
from the phenomenon of voyance by means of magic mirrors. But
in the latter case voyance, instead of being direct, is obtained sym
bolically by an intermediary.
Two other divinations which are similar and according to Paul
Jagot derived from the same principle, are those by means of the
white of eggs and of pins.
280 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
2 . T h e E g o a n d L e a d
An egg having been boiled in the sheU, therefore having the yolk
still quite liquid, take this egg, break it as if you were going to eat it,
cutting the tin from the small end (and not from the big end) and
having placed before you a sheet of white unruled paper, drop the yolk
on to it drop by drop.
The spots and splashes being thoroughly dry, all th at you have to
do is to interpret the signs and figures thus obtained, as in the case of
coffee grounds.
Another method, with the white of egg:—
Break a fresh egg and take out the yolk; pour the white into a
large glass which is then filled with water, place it for 24 hours in a
dry place without covering it, and then interpret.
' If you wish to question molten lead in the same circumstances
and according to the same principles, pour quickly into a white or
light coloured bowl full of cold water some molten lead which you
have obtained by heating it until it has become liauid.
The more or less thick and connected discs wnich are formed as
the lead gets cold will form the designs which you can then interpie
according to the same general principles.
3. Sh e l l s a n d Pin s
Drop into a sieve seven small shells shaped like holy water basins,
and two beans, one white and the other blade. Shake your sieve seven
times from left to right. Stop and examine the position of the shells
* The Futurefrom Coffee Grounds or the Art of the Great Agrippa placed within the reach
of everyone (Cbacornac).
* The Sevelations of Coffee Grounds by Daguesah (Nelsson). Divination by coffee grounds
teems to have been particularly in use in Italy where it was reduced to rules by Thomas
Tomponelli, whose famous treatise has been translated into almost all European languages.
281
in relation to the beans; look to see if they have turned over or not,
th a t is to say whether you see their hollow or their domed sides.
The following is a table of the positions obtained and their prophetic
m eaning:—
From 4 to 7 shells hollow side up near the white bean—good luck,
success, happy marriage, long life.
From 4 to 7 shells domed side up near the white bean—accident
or illness but not fatal.
From 4 to 7 shells hollow side up near the black bean—good luck
interrupted by trials.
From 4 to 7 shells domed side up near the black bean—business
troubles.
Shells in shape of cross domed side up near the white bean—mourn
ing very soon.
Shells in shape of cross hollow side up near the white bean—broken
happiness.
4 shells in a circle hollow side up hear the white bean—probable
legacy.
4 shells in a circle hollow side up near the black bean—legacy and
painful mourning.
4 shells domed side up, the black bean at a distance from the white
bean—accident in travelling.
If you are working with pins, hold them for a moment in the hand.
Then take them in the other hand, so as to impregnate them with
fluid. If you are working for another person, he must thus handle
them.
Then tlirow the pins a few at a time on to a white sheet which has
previously been divided into twelve squares corresponding to the 12
solar houses (see Astrology). Then explain the shapes according to
the details given at the beginning of this chapter, confining yourself
of course to those only which can possibly exist, that is those made of
straight lines (squares, rectangles, etc.)
4. P a p e r
Write thirteen questions on thirteen pieces of paper and place
them in a bowl without folding them and fill the bowl with water.
A reply in the affirmative will belong to that question which is written
on the first piece of paper which rises to the surface of the water.
5. T w e l f t h N ig h t Ca k e
If it keeps for three months in a dry drawer without going mouldy
—success or the m atter enquired into.
S E C O N D A R Y D I V I N A T I O N S
282
If the cake has gone slightly mouldy—the success of the matter
is doubtful.
If the cake has gone entirely mouldy—complete failure.
6. P r e c io u s St o n e s
Scatter on a plate brilliant stones of different colours, but make
a circle ofthem in the centre ofwhich you will light a big short candle.
Watch for the first stone which reflects the light.
If it is a blue stone, lookforearly good luck.
If it is a green stone, look for the fulfilment of a hope.
If it is a red stone, look for a love affair.
If it is a violet stone, look formourning.
If it is a yellow stone, look for unfaithfulness.
If it is a grey stone, look for tears.
If it is a garnet stone, look for a marriage.
7 . W a t e r
Ask a question which can be answered yes or no.
Throw a pebble into a bowl ofwater and count the concentric rings
which are formed.
If the ripples are odd—favourable reply.
If the ripples are even—unfavourable reply.
8. T h e R in g
Sit down in front of a table on which you have placed an empty
glass.
Attach a ring to a hair and hold this hair between the thumb and
the first finger of the left hand. Hold the ring above the glass and
let it go down into it.
The oracle will interpret the oscillations of the ring as follows:—
If the ring knocks against the left side of the glass—distrust your
heart and the more so as unintentional hurts will be numerous.
If the ring knocks against the right side self-interest is your
dominating passion.
If the ring knocks against the ride away from the questioner—
success, good luck, happiness.
If it knocks against the ride near the questioner—misfortune,
disappointments.
0. T h e Su n
Trace a circle in a spot on which the sun must presently shine.
Write on pieces of paperat the rate of one on each piece the questions
which interest you and which can be answered m the affirmative.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
283
Shuffle these papers after having turned them upside down and place
them in the circle in such a manner that you are ignorant of theplace
of each question, and wait for the sun. The first paper on which it
shines will show which of your plans will be the first to be realised.
10. T h e M o o n
Young ladies, starting with the first day ofMay on which the Moon
is visible, look at it on nine consecutive evenings, havinga looking
glass hidden in your pocket or your hand. Then on the night of the
ninth day place this looking glass under your pillow, asking the star
to show you in a dream your future husband. On the morrow go out
early and give alms to the first beggar you meet. If it is a man, you
will be married within the year to the man of whom you dreamt. If
it is a woman, you will have to wait another year.
11. St e a m
Write on various pieces of paperthe names of young men (or young
women as the case may be) whom you may possibly get engaged to,
or various matters, affairs in which you are engaged, etc., and throw
them, rolled like cigarettes, into a sieve over a saucepan of boiling
water. That paper which will be first unrolled by the steam will give
you a reply. Do not forget to put amongst the others a piece of white
paper rolled the same as the others but on which you have written
nothing. If this is the first to unroll, you will remain unmarried.
12. Th e e Ba b b :
Choose it broad and thin, put it into a bright fire and wait till it
has caught. As soon as the flames have gone out, read, as in coffee
grounds, the signs made on the black surface by the traces of the ash.
13. So o t
Similarly interpret the designs and blots made on oilcloth or on
a sheet of glass by a mixture of soot and oil stirred up together.
14. A m a n d W in d
Put on a tabic upside down a number of small squares of paper
of the same size on which you have written various replies to the
questions which you want answered. Gently move a fan over them,
and the answer which fate intends for you will turn up.
S E C O N D A R Y D I V I N A T I O N S
284 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
15. E a b t ii
Fill five flower pots with exactly similar earth and plant in each
on the same day the seed of the same kind of flower. Each pot corres
ponds to an exacted event. The first to happen will be determined
by the seed which has germinated first.
16. T h e Cu c k o o
As soon as you hear it sing, put your hand in your pocket, take
a coin and hold it firmly, saying," Cuckoo, shall I make my fortune ? ”
If the cuckoo immediately sings twice, the reply is favourable; if
several times, doubtful; if once, no.
17. T h e D a is y
Everybody has consulted this popular oracle. How many believe
in it ? Is it more ridiculous to believe in than others? “ I love you
(or he loves me), a little, much, passionately, not at all.” Hope and
rear of gentle lovers! Precious avowals made by the white petals 1
How many hearts you will yet fill with happiness or melancholy 1
Others, occupied with plans, say yes ana no, or similarly failure
and success, etc.
18. T h e E n t r a il s o f A n im a l s
How many centuries back docs this oracle go 1 The soothsayers
used to consult the throbbing entrails of the burnt offerings which
sometimes were human beings. To-day, less cruel, we confine our
selves to sacrificing fowl or game. They are read as follows:—
If there are black intestines to the right—increase in the family.
If there ore black intestines to the left—loss of money.
If the intestines are twisted—struggle, but success in the end.
If there are intestines recently torn—discord.
If there are intestines tom long ago—renewed harmony.
19. T h e B l a c k H e n
Magicians used this “ magic animal,” and divination by its help
was called alectromancy. A circle was traced on the ground and
divided into sections corresponding to the letters of the alphabet or
to the number of replies required. In each section a grain of millet,
or barley or of com was placed. Then the hen was placed and the
order in which it picked up the grains was noted, this order forming
a word which gave the reply or the sequence of the events to come.
In Tunisia a black cock which had had nothing to eat th at day
is used instead of the hen.
286
S E C O N D A R Y D I V I N A T I O N S
20. Sh o e s
In order to know whether they will get married, girls throw one
of their shoes from the foot down the stairs. If the shoe falls toe
upwind, there is no m arriage; if on the other hand the heel is upwards,
then a marriage will take place after as many days, months or years
as the shoe fell in steps.
Take a dandelion in seed and blow on it. If all the seeds fly off at
once, you are loved passionately. If a few seeds remain, there may
be some unfaithfulness. If many remain, indifference.
Oracles for Lovers abound. Most of them are gaily fanciful.
Many reproduce the information previously here given and interpreted
in favour of or against love. From a small book on the subject we
extract the following by way of distraction amongst so many serious
m atters:—
Needle—if it is broken while sewing, a young man thinks of the
sewer.
Matches—upset by a girl, early marriage if the whole box is upset.
If any remain in the box, each one means a day, a week, a month
or a year before the marriage takes place.
Ring—given it is always a sign of love and token of happiness.
Beware of breaking off if this ring is lost. Danger of divorce if it is
broken. Danger of betrayal if it loses its shape owing to a blow.
Stockings or socks unintentionally put on inside out on rising mean
a present soon.
Walking stick—accidentally broken by a girl—beware of a cruel
husband.
Scissors—broken, bad om en; one blade broken, squabble ; both
broken, break.
Looking-Glass—given as a present—anxiety ; if it breaks, end of
orsehoe—found, good luck ; found by two lovers together, com
plete happiness.
Slipping—on fruit skin, flirtation; on the lawn, fainting in the
open a ir; in the water, love and tears; on parquet floor, fainting in
an enclosed space.
Garter—lost, proposal coming soon to the owner; coming undone,
beware ; found, love letter coming.
21. Th e Da n d e l io n
Lit t l e Or a c l e f o r L o v e r s
uncss.
286
H and—knocked against wood—you will be loved; against iron—
do not trust.
Sting—of a bee, passion; of a wasp, danger; of an ant, quarrel;
of a flea, small worries.
Broken egg—sulks.
Penny with a hole—good luck for the recipient. Happy home
for engaged couple if it is given them.
Glass—broken, good sign if it is a white glass; if it is red, worries;
if green, hope disappointed; if it is full of wine, lasting love.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
IV
Onomanties
We do not say Onomancy.
Onomancy was and remains divination by names. The following
is the opinion of the occultist Ely Star, the author of an onomantic
Astrology entitled The M ysteries o f the Horoscope, on this subject:—
Not satisfied with ascertaining the influences of the stars by the usual
proceedings of Astrology, Ely Star, as we have seen, claims th at we
must add the influence of the name, that is to say the family seal (given
by the family name) and individual signature (given by the personal
name), the whole kabbalistically reduced to numbers. We have
said th at this complication seemed to us somewhat unnecessary and
slightly fantastic. We do not intend in saying so to reject the curious
ideas expressed by this scholar on the characteristics of names, but to
separate Onomancy from Astrology, which may be added to it, but in
our opinion not mixed up with it. In other words, this enables us
to distinguish between Onomancy in which we have not very much
faith, ana Onomanties which we consider useful.
To say a word, justly writes Ely Star, is to evoke a thought, to
make it actual. Further, the magnetic power of the word is the begin
ning of all manifestation. This is why we find in the Gospel, “ In
the beginning was the Word, and the Word was God.” To give a
name is not merely to identify the being that bears it, but it is to devote
it by the Word to the occult powers. Things are what they are made
by naming them. The Word is blessing or curse. Thus names become
beneficent or maleficent according to the influences attached to their
elements, that is to say to their letters and to the numbers corres
ponding to those letters.
The name is therefore a signature. Its very sound impresses us.
In the abstract, for instance, Gamahut is an ugly name, and it is not
surprising that it should have been borne by a murderer; Noailles
is a beautiful name in its sonorousness which turns into limpidity,
and we are glad th at it should adorn a poetical talent as it adorned a
family illustrious in history. Names nave their own physiognomy,
gentle or aggressive, honest or low. I t is well known that family
names were originally nicknames, and personal names have a well-
known meaning. How remarkable is the euphony of the first name
given by believers to the Divine being, which is, as is well known,
merely a collection of vowels:—I, E, O, U, A, which became Ieouva,
Ieova, Jehovah!
Personal names, the only ones of which we shall speak here, without
trying to attach a destiny to them, which seems to us to be going too
far, have a hidden poetry, delicate but- sure. Thus the Greeks gave
the name Melanie to a dark girl, because melanie is a translation of the
word brown (Melanesia, for instance, is that part of Oceania which
was inhabited by dark people), Theopliilus to a pious man (Theo—
G od; philo—friend), etc. I t could therefore almost be said of dark
people, passing from the proper name to the common noun, th at they
were melanies, of pious men th at they were theophiles, and similarly
bridget could be called a servant, as the second word is a translation
of the first, daudine an idiot, demence a dark woman, flavia a fair
one, bemard a hermit, philip a lover, etc.
Thus an idea, a belief, a destiny were attached to names, and thus
Onomantics led to Onomancy. B ut the idea has been to such an extent
forgotten th a t the destiny has hardly any value left.
So much was it believed that destiny was bound to the name that,
apart from usual reminders of characteristics, names were invented
which might bring good luck. W hat is the meaning of Celestine if not
“ protected by G od”, of Alexander (Alexo—I protect; aner—men)
if not “ protected by men ” ? And this faith in the mysticism of
the name is found again in the fact that Catholics give to a child the
name of a Saint who becomes its patron, its protector, and who is
honoured, as well as the child, on the day of his feast.
In short, personal names were adapted to those who bore them.
I t is a great pity th at it is no longer so. However, it is not rare to
find godfathers and godmothers give to their godchildren names which
they like, which they hope will bring them luck. We are therefore
not at all opposed to the principle of finding for newborn babies names
which have a meaning, or a t any rate are harmonious. I t might be
hoped th at in the result they should correspond to the child when
grown up, for there is no doubt th at some names do not at all agree
with the faces of those who bear. The best thing might be to give
several personal names, so as to be able to choose, one day, if necessary,
the one amongst the number which is the most suitable. H ad not
the Romans three names—the family name, the baptismal name, and
S E C O N D A R Y D I V I N A T I O N S 287
the surname which often was the only one remembered, the only one
that passed to posterity. You know Tullius Marcus Cicero. Cicero
was the surname. I t is the one which to-day glows in our memories.
Marcus has been forgotten, and the memory of Cicero has remained.
288 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
The following, therefore, belongs more to Onomantics than to
onomancy. We shall describe what the bearer of this or that personal
name ouglU to be rather than what he is or will become. None-the-
less by way of information, and so as not to grieve those who believe
in the luck of a personal name, we shall also give what Onomancy
claims to attach to it in the way of prediction.
Let us begin with the common feminine personal names.1
Alba: means the white one. Hence whiteness, parity. The Albas are (in principle,
we repeat it) naive, upright, not very firm. Sometimes mystical, they remain
unmarried or become nuns.
Agnes: the pure, the gentle one. Fragility, tenderness. The Agnesesare (or ought
to be) small delicate gentle women, timid and ready to sacrifice themselves.
Agatha: the precious, the good, the brilliant one. Lively pretty women, musical,
fond of pleasure and the arts, intelligent enough to succeed, but afraid of
strong emotions.
Adda: the unknown, the noble one. Oreat coquettes, sprightly, changeable, not
very reliable, well made physically; unfaithful companions and careless
mothers. If dark these defects are slighter.
Anna: the gracious, the merciful one. The personal name for kindly women, of
sane mind, frank, courageous,goodwives, goodmothers, charitable. Generally
not very pretty but having good eyes.
Angda: the appointed one. There is something of the angel in them, they are
fair, gliding, light, open-faced with blue eyes, dreamy, poetical, becoming
mystical in later life, or neurasthenic.
Alice: the conqueror. Suits the haughty tall statuesque woman; but there are
small pleasant and proud Alices. Great courtesans who rule by their charm.
Amy: the beloved. They are gracious, pleasant, good, knowing how to keep love,
ample, wise, modest, sure of long happiness and a calm old age.
Augusta: the feminine of Augustus. Obviously greatness, nobility, intelligence,
pride. They are predisposed to broken loves, which subsequently make
them cry in silence.
Aurdia: the halo. A somewhat pretentious name. Intelligence and will-power.
It is little used, and not very appropriately. There is little attraction in the
word, hence the bearer is apt to become an old maid.
Aline: the upright, the dainty one. Gentleness, indolence, integrity. You see
a small gracious woman, somewhat stout, loving and gentle, with dainty
tastes, feeling, and a sense of duty.
>These details are in part a sampling up of those given by J. Renonx in his Meaning
of Personal Name*.
Adrienne: the beautiful one. Lively, coquette, alert and particular. Not much
energy, but calm and a little caddish. Tendency to languor. Good
company.
Barbara: the stranger, the aged one. This name should not be given to a baby.
It evokes a stern and strict elderly woman, sentimental but reserved, a fault
finding and thin old maid, lover of cats and parrots.
Bertha: the beautiful one. It is short, simple ana gentle. You see a loving little
woman, good to her friends, a worker, pleasant and fair. Economical perhaps
and very practical, somewhat reserved.
Beatrix: the blessed, the valorous one. Beatrices owe it to themselves to be beauti
ful, noble, brave, combative, artistic, original. Dante loved a Beatrix.
Bridget: the peaceful, the serving one. The Bridgets are good, devoted persons,
elderly, retiring, afiable. They love children, look after old people. Not
much youthfulness.
Cecilia: St. Cecilia is the patron of musicians. Harmony, intelligence and passion.
A voice bound to be pleasant. Good heart, but very touchy.
Clara: the luminous one. A Clara is alive, nervous, upright, pretty, dark, supple,
small but well made. She marries, becomes jealous and loves less than she
is loved.
Claudia: the silly one. The author of “ Claudine ” has made her tender rather
than stupid, and this name now evokes a shrewd young woman, but remains
sensual, gentle and childish.
Cornelia: hard as horn. And Cornelia is a cornelian name, denotes a virile and
firm temperament, a noble and practical nature, somewhat cold physically,
eager morally.
Clemence: who pardons. A sensible, slow, not very expansive woman, generous
modest indulgent. Not very beautiful but with a maternal feeling. Clemence
grows old, happy, childish and greedy.
Charlotte: the strong one. Judgment, good heart, energy, wisdom due to deep
thought and true integrity. A Charlotte is active, hard working, a good
companion, pleasant, fairly elegant. Her tastes are not very aesthetic. She
is a simple and sane bourgeoise.
Camille: free. This name is male as female. Camilles are smart, shrewd, forward,
boyish. They naturally please, are good company and make good wives.
Colette: slender neck. Oh, what a pretty name for an exquisite woman with a
dainty mind, beautiful eyes, full of life and soul!
Carmen: melody. The Carmens are keen and self-willed, proud and vindictive,
pretty and fantastic, small, nervous, restive. What attractive eyes, what
a pretty smile I They inspire strong passions in a Spanish way. One always
dreads a tragic death for them.
Diana: good sense and youthful strength. We think of the Greek Dianas, proud,
robust, sporting. They are healthy women, well balanced, magnificent, self-
willed. They dominate.
Denise: reminder of Dionysos. Charm and gentleness. Gentle natures but without
strong passions.
Eva: life, the mother of men. The Evas are pretty, inquisitive, thoughtful. They
marry young and have many children.
S E C O N D A R Y D I V I N A T I O N S 289
Elizabeth: greeted by God. Fortunate personal name which gives charming temper
and natural powers.
Eidalie: I speak well. Hencestudious, anda traveller, goodstoryteller, imaginative,
romantic.
Estelle: the star. Name of pride, of elegance and of health.
Euphrasia: I charm. Yes, but it no longer charms, the village name of the woman
with many children and a drunken husband.
Either: the secretive one. Timidity, moral qualities, not very pretty but know
how to please. They love reading, meditation, the theatre, dreaming and
melancholy.
Eugenie: the well born. Obvious name for the strong dark woman with beautiful
blaok eyes. Faithfulness, love of jewels and dress. Coquettish, but remains
honest. Marries rather late.
Emily: Emily is patient, gentle, but somewhat stubborn. She marries young,
but often has no children. If red she is more attractive than if fair, but less
so than if dark. Excellent at work.
Fdieia: the well-treated one. Independent, morethan ambitious, of wide know
ledge. Little heart and much aplomb.
Frances: the fearless one. Frances is small, well made, pretty, daring, cheery,
skilful, lively, pleasant.
Fernanda: is more than ambitious, self-interested, brave and often good, skilful,
hard working and self-willed.
Georgette: often pretentious, although not very well made. Often also thin, silly,
lying, eager foradventure and cowardlywhenin danger. Sometimes, however,
a Georgette has good heart.
Germaine: a Germaine is kind, gentle, soft, malleable, loving, sympathetic.
Genevieve: who inhabits the woods and breeds courage. And me has courage,
under a simple, delicate and graceful appearance. She is upright, nolne,
strongwilled, right minded. She has charm, and often the convent attracts
her.
Harriet: belonging to a powerful family. German name. Intelligence, calm,
strong will, positivism, suppleness.
Hortensia: who comes from the garden. Pretty in youth, embittered in old age.
Fades like the flower.
Helen.* who comes from Greece. A delicate name which suits beauty, elegance
and gentleness. Medium intelligence, but dainty mind. Causes perhaps
some illusion, but so charming!
Isabella; French substitute for Ysabeau, for Elizabeth. No pride, but dis
simulation. The Ysabeaus were often ardent, cruel, unjust, vindictive.
The Isabellas are less so.
JuUa: bom in July. Also graceful in the shape of Juliet. Good feelings, dainty
ideas. Will-power moderate but sustained. Constancy in affection. Some
what touchy.
Jacqueline: peasant name. Grace whioh soon fades, hence may develop into a
difficult character.
Josephine:judged ofGod. Softnature, not veryenlightened, common. Superficial
kindness. Silliness and vanity.
290 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Jane: Hope, shelter, grace. Name of tenderness rather than of beauty. The
Janes are kind at times, devoted to excess, often sensual, sometimes vicious,
always impressionable.
Louise: the gentle one. It is a somewhat ordinary name, simple, timid, amiable,
ardent.
Lucy: the luminous one. Smart name, solid intellect, livelycharacter, will-power
unequal. Sentimental and romantic in youth. Charm without beauty
but which is loved.
Leonie: comes from leo, lion. Decided, touchy, vindictive character. Practice,
activity, broad morality.
Hans: name of entwining, of daring, of elegance. Not much heart. Leaning to
carelessness and love of money.
Mary: the very high one. Name which has fallen from its high estate,
originally superb, made for imagination, a great heart, strong will
power. But it has fallen towards easy pleasures, common tastes—with
exceptions.
Margaret:the pearl. Excellentname, generallywellsuited to women at once firm
and gentle.
Melanie: the dark one. They are all like this, seductive, easy, somewhat talkative,
made for calm.
Magdalen: fair, pretty, sensible, expansive, dainty, passionate.
Marian: (Mary-Ann). Sympathetic, lively and gentle nature, conciliating and
firm, not very elegant.
Martha: means from Bethany, and the attracting one. You see them dark, fault
finding, loving pleasure, somewhat egoistical, easy going, made for success,
but with frail health.
MarceUe: graceful name. Moderate intellect, hard heart, daring.
Natalie: rising star. They bring luck. Cheerful character. One likes to meet
them.
Paula: the little one. Pauline, Paulette. Domineering nature, especially if it
is the male name turned into Paule. Independent women, unequal, nervous,
hot or cold, egoistical, obstinate.
Rachel: the sheep. Rachels are passionate, sensual, profoundly intelligent and of
great personal charm, even if it is not due to beauty.
Renee: the Queen. Generally fairly tall, alert, sentimental, not very sensitive,
decided, brave.
Rose: the flower. The flower of flowers. Much charm and passion. But with
thorns and ephemeral. They come, they charm, they pass on, coquettish,
independent, not very sensitive.
Sophia: wisdom. Name which is falling into disuse. It is a pity. It stood for
intelligence, calm will, personal worth, solid qualities. This is probably the
reason, alas I why it has ceased to please.
Sylvia: Rustio poetry. Charming simplicity. Childishness. Moderate and
chimerical intellect.
Susanna: the lily. Clear intellect, practical common sense, pride and nobility.
Captivating beauty. Great self-respect. Correct behaviour. Simplicity
apparent rather than real.
S E C O N D A R Y D I V I N A T I O N S 291
Simone: the heretic. Imagination, sensuality. You see them fair, somewhat
stout, sentimental, smiling, elegant, amiable. Their lives are somewhat
exciting.
Theresa:means she who healsthe bite of the serpent, and the untamed one. Name
for a sensitive expansive affectionate character, sometimes passionate, kind
and cheerful.
Yvonne: full of grace. Name very distinguished for real beauty, active intellect
calm and persevering will-power.
Me n ’s Na me s
Adam: the old man, the father. It is said that his name brings bad luck. And
yet there have been famous Adams. Must we believe that it induces laziness,
carelessness, spite, vice %
Augustus: the great one. Name of intelligence and strength, of good luck, success
and fertility.
Antony: who carries himself well; and inestimable. Name of health, bad head
and good heart. It produces pleasant companions, men liking manual labour,
sensitive self-willed men.
Anaiole: Dawn, and he who rises high. Name which in its origin was proud, has
been somewhat vulgarised by the people, but is now again finding its high
place among the Mite. The bearer is in danger of a violent death.
Albert, Alberto: of good birth. Cold imagination, practical common sense, broad
minded.
Armand: the formidable one. Mocking, positive, tenacious, original mind. Good
looking, with successes among women, but, these getting to his head, misses
his opportunity, and finally marries anyone.
Andrew: the conqueror. Pleasant appearance, simple manners, good company.
Marries late. It has been observedthat many Andrews are bitten by animals,
or lose the sight of one eye through some awkward person barging into them.
Adrian: courageous. Moderate in everything.. Manualskill. Uprightcharacter,
but easily embittered. Little will-power.
Alphonse: au afire. The name has become sadly common. On principle, nice
fellow, madcap, empty heart.
Benjamin: son of my right hand. Made to be petted. Intelligence and gentleness.
Generally well balanced.
Bernard: solitary, and strong as a bear. Voluptuous, thoughtless, sometimes
“ lucky.” 'With some exceptions not much energy.
Charles: the strong. Charles is generally practical, gifted in commerce, of solid
mentality, skilful, hardworking, self-willed, looking after his own interests.
Daniel:-judgment of God. Slightly fantastic and sentimental name, somewhat
soft, affectionate, of alert nund and conciliating character. Love of simplicity.
Eugene: the well born. Male qualities and defects of Eugenie. With this name
a somewhat unhappy marriage may be looked for. Not very keen on work
and somewhat swaggering.
Ernest: grave, serious. Simple, obliging, strong nature. Good husbands. Apt
for diplomacy.
292 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Emmanuel: God with him. Very good brain. Graceful manners. Sensuality.
Somewhat easily influenced.
Edmund: happy. Good fellow, somewhat timid, generally fair, regular, hearty,
distinguished. A moderate intellect which easily adapts itself. Pleasant
comradeship.
Emile: obliging. And loving fighting. A sympathetic name, strength, loyalty,
courage, energy. Ordinary intelligence and obstinacy. Heart of gold.
Excellent husband.
Francis: the fearless. See under Frances, and put what is there into the
masculine.
Ferdinand: seductive, mocking, imaginative, cold, prudent, cheerful by fits.
Oaston: the host. Simple and without side, independent and assimilative. Calm
and full of initiative. Often fair. Broad ideas agreeing with moral integrity
and without excessive bourgeoisie. Chief defect, thoughtlessness. Delightful
fellow and excellent husband.
Gabriel: the manofGod. Fightingand nervystrength. Somewhat proud manners
but generous heart. A Gabriel is worth getting to know. He is good at
patient work. He is obliging and can love.
Germain; Sincere. Rustic name of a solid and firm man full of good qualities.
Gilbert: brilliantcompanion. Denotes sensitiveness, gentleness, firm ana wheedling
will-power, great inner activity.
George: who is of the earth. Somewhat excessive vivacity, apparent good nature.
Good looking, good health.
Henry: A Henry is hard working, somewhat hard of heart, rather keen on money,
well made, meant for an easy life and a fair number of children by marriage.
Hippolyte: lover of horses. He has clear thoughts, a passionate temperament,
is slightly presumptuous.
Joseph: saviour. This name betokens simplicity, evenchildishness,calm, honesty,
perseverance. But for some unknown reason he is often betrayed by women.
Julian: nothing original. Dull nature, without noticeable qualities or defects.
Calm and retiring.
John: entrance door. Nice, simple and gentle name, breathing true poetry, self-
control, noble independence, love of truth, a reserve which conceals high
feeling.
James: the supplanter. Somewhat mobile character. Democratic tastes. A
friendship which gives itself without reserve. Loves the soil.
Jerome: Connected thought. Anxious to succeed. Great practical common-
sense. Strong willed.
Leo: lion. And yet a Leo does not seem attracted by noble pride, or sure of his
strength or courageous. Many are sensual, supple, mobile, self-interested
and not very interesting.
Lucian: comes from lux, light. Middle class name whichdenoteseconomy, egoism,
carelessness, and yet a Lucian is not spiteful. Too smart perhaps, boasting.
Women don’t trust them.
Mark: born in March. Short dry name, betokening strength, decision, success
with women and in business.
Miehad: like God. Prideand oddness. Artistic sense. Jealousy. Independence.
S E C O N D A R Y D I V I N A T I O N S 298
294 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Nicholas: victory. And yet it is a calm, modest name. A Nicholas usually is a
good fellow, good son, good husband, good father, somewhat timid.
Oliver: bearingfruit. Delightful medieval name full of chivalrous bravery. Our
Olivers still seem noble, sensitive, affectionate, reserved, always equable
and sane.
Oscar: rough. Nasty name exuding boasting, egoism; but at the same time it
contains intelligence and suppleness. Aristocratic at first, it has become
quaintly middle-class.
Peter; says what it means, but it must not he taken to mean hardness of heart.
What it does mean is firmness. Fine name too much left to the lower classes.
The Peters are upright, somewhat careworn, not very idealistic. They are
wrongly looked upon as utopian, limited, r e m a i n i n g unmarried. They are
somewhat naif it is true and somewhat obstinate, but at bottom good
fellows.
Prosper: happy. Intellect somewhat slow but practical. Little physical charm.
Some vanity.
PhUvp; the lover. Charm. Not much energy. Passion. Not much judgment.
Will-power. Not much intelligence. Is good looking, will probably succeed
with simple minded women. Shines and deceives.
Baphael: who delights. Winged poetic graceful name, betokening art. Physical
and moral beauty. One has a feeling that Raphaels spend themselves much,
use themselves up and die young.
Raymond: giverofadvice. This name pleases women. Sensitive and melancholy,
a Raymond can think and love. He is gentle and weak, at once romantic
and quiet. He iB afraid of his passion.
Richard: here we havethe strong man, solid in body, mind and heart. Keenness,
daring, independence. He is proud and susceptible, likes emulation. Well
made, often fond of sports.
Robert: brilliantorator. He is said to be distrustful, slowto understand,suscepti
ble, tenacious, keen on money, self-willed.
Sebastian: respectable. Serious, settled, pleasant name. Equally happy whether
married or not.
Severine: graveand stern. Intellect. Patience. Love of paradox.
Stephen: crowned. Serious natural qualities redeeming a not very cultured mind.
Suppleness and decision. Very alert judgment. Stephens generally make
their fortune. They frequently remain unmarried. They become wealthy
bachelor uncles who are petted in their old age.
Sylvester: who is of the fields. Loving nature, simple, good, enlightened, sharp,
somewhat cunning.
Theodore: Ample abundant fantastic imagination. Frankness. Despises un
known persons.
Thomas: Popular name. Broad commonsense, strong qualities of the heart
rather than of the mind. Hard work and thoughtfulness.
Tony: artificial name. Sustained will-power. Moderate imagination. No
enemies. Good match. Success.
Vidi ' Very ambitious, that is to say more will-power, than heart
William: formerlynoble, nowpopularised. Mobile complicateddiplomaticoharao-
ter, capricious, enterprising, odd, impressionable.
Xavier: gentle, graceful pleasant manners. Delightful mind. Acute sensitiveness.
Gift of pleasing.
To the above let us add the etymology of a few other fairly well
known nam es:—
8 B C 0 N D A B 7 D I V I N A T I O N S 295
Abd: he who weeps.
Abraham: illustrious father.
Achilles: who has beautiful lips.
Adolphus: paternal help.
Agrippina: born feet foremost.
Atdies: strong.
Alexander: who protects the warriors.
Alfred: very quiet.
Ambrose: immortal.
Amelia: powerful.
Anastasia: who restores to life.
Ann: gracious.
Anselm; helmeted companion.
Aristides: the best made.
Arsine: energetic character.
Bertha: illustrious and beautiful.
Blanche: pure.
Caroline; brave.
Casimir: master in his own house.
Catherine: sincere.
Ceesar: born with hair.
Chrysostom: mouth ofgold.
Claud: lame.
Cleo: glorious.
ClotUde: illustrious daughter.
Cora: girl.
Cyr,Cyprian: lord, master.
Dadd: well beloved.
Dennis: diviner.
Dominie:.master of the house.
Dorothy: gift of God.
Dreyfus: three footed.
Edita: noble.
Eleanor: conqueror.
Emma: protector.
Eusebius: pious.
Evaristus: the best.
Fdician: happy.
Frederick: who brings peace.
Gerard: strong in war.
Gertrude: who protects the house.
Gervase: estimable.
Gisda: servant.
Gregory: watchful.
Hubert: brilliant mind.
Hugh, Hugo: serious thinker.
Ignatius: unknown.
Irene: peaceful.
Irma: of German race.
Isaac: who laughs.
James: the supplanter.
Jerome: the sacred name.
Judith: who praises.
Landry: rich m the land.
Lambert: powerful in the land.
Luke, Lucas: luminous.
Mark, Marcd, Martin: of March,
brave.
Matthew,Matilda: gift of the Lord.
Maurice: black.
Maxim: the greatest.
Mederick: cheerful.
Noah: beautiful,radiant.
Onesimus: helpful.
Pascal: passenger.
Raoul: adviser.
Bemi: the rower.
Roger: asked.
Simeon: answered.
Solange: unique.
Valentine; in good health.
Vincent; who restrains himself.
Yves: watchful.
I t will be seen th at names which resemble each other have the
296
same root, which increases the hints given above. Examples of names
which have the same meaning:—
Adalbert, Adelaide, Adela, Albert, Albertine.
Claire, Clara, Clarice.
Cyr, Cyprian, Cyrion, Cyril, Cyrin.
Etienne, Stephan, Stephanie, Stephen, Steven, Stepan, Fanny.
Francis, Francis, Francesco, Franz.
Leo, Leon, Leonie, Leonce, Leonard, Leontine, Leopold.
Matthew, Mate, Mathias, Matilda, Matteo, Maffco, Matthys.
Maur, Maurice, Moreau, Morel, Morin, Morris.
Nicholas, Nicaise, Nicanor, Nicol, Nicostrate, Nicolai.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
V
Voyance and Psychometry
We thought that it would hardly be possible to omit dealing in this
chapter with divination by clairvoyance, although this is a hyper
psychic phenomenon like those that are dealt with in the second part
of the book. We rely here on the authority of Mr. Jagot, who includes
clairvoyance and cartomancy as well as magic mirrors among the
intuitive divinatory arts; and it is from his remarkable Treatise of
Occult Sciences and Practical Magic that we extract the substance
of the fifth division of the present chapter.
Mr. Boirac, the Rector of the Academy of Dijon, who has taken
such a great interest in hyperpsychical phenomena, has given the name
of metagnomy to the perception of persons or things situate outside
the radius of the physical senses of the seer. This vision through
space may surely be described as intuitive divination. We give four
examples:—
Dr. Cloquet having in 1829 magnetically put a woman to sleep
so as to remove her breast, Dr. Chapelain a t the same time put her
daughter to sleep, whereupon the latter described step by step the
state of her mother, and told him that the mother would die on the
following day without suffering or death agony, and this happened.
Further the autopsy revealed that the clairvoyant had seen in great
detail the condition (really terrible) of the internal organs of the patient.
Dr. Joire, having put a medium, Miss D., to sleep, made with her
an experiment of crystal vision, of which we shall speak later in that
part of the book dealing with Magic Sciences. He placed before her
on a black m at a crystal ball, told her that she was going to see the
portrait of a gentleman whom she did not know, and asked her to tell
him what she noticed particularly. She did so at the end of a few
moments, describing minutely a lady’s brooch with a small portrait
surrounded with gold, stating the place where this brooch was (in a
box), the cupboard which contained it, the room and its furniture.
Notes having been taken, the correctness of all these details was
checked in a town 60 kilometres away. The operator alone knew
of the existence of the jewel. He has related this fact of metagnomy
and many others in his book entitled “ Psychic and Supernormal
Phenomena."
Here is another of his experiments :—
Placing his usual medium Prima Nitija before a crystal ball, he
asked him to describe exactly what he saw there. W hat the medium
saw was a woman in outdoor clothes, with hat on, ready to go out, a
man near her with a walking stick in his hand, waiting for her. Nitija
recognises the woman, gives her name, adds that she is looking for
something—a key which she finally finds on a shelf in a cupboard,
then she goes out. Questioned the next day, the lady, much astonished,
admits the correctness of the facts as to her looking for a key, then
gets angry with the man who was with her, being surprised that she
should be spied upon (!)
A correspondent of C. Flammarion told the famous astronomer
that in 1867, being then in Odensa (Denmark), he used to meet a lawyer
of the name of Balle connected with a well known hypnotiser called
Hansen, who frequently hypnotised the lawyer. One day the corres
pondent asked Hansen, who had just put Balle to sleep and had reached
the stage of clairvoyance and with his consent to visit in mind his
mother who lived at Roeskilde. He did so, saying th a t he saw the
lady ill but not seriously so in a house in the street called Skomagcr-
straede. How could this be, since she did not live there ? B ut a
few days later this was confirmed by a letter telling th a t the lady
had felt unwell and had had herself taken to the street in question.
Side by side with these facts of voyance of places there are facts
of voyance of dates. Here is one quoted by Dr. Liebault, which is
very important, as it is also connected with chiromancy.
He says1 that in January, 1886, a certain Mr. de Ch. came to tell
him th at having in 1879 consulted Mme. Lenormand, the famous
chiromancer,3 the latter, having examined his hand, told him th a t he
would lose his father in a year, that he would become a soldier, but
would soon leave the army, would marry young, have two children
and die at the age of 26. Now, each of the first five prophecies having
come true, he came, much worried about the sixth, to ask if there
were no means of escaping it. Dr. Liebault tried to drive out these
black thoughts by deep sleep and suggestion. He did not succeed,
' In bis 8vggutive Therapeutic».
* Not to be mistaken for Miss Lenonaand who died in the middle of the 19th century.
S E C O N D A R Y D I V I N A T I O N S 297
but handed him over to one of his colleagues, who was successful
Freed from his obsession, Mr. de Ch. went away happily. Alas 1soon
after Dr. Liebault heard of his death. The unfortunate man had not
escaped his fate.
Surely, concludes Mr. Jagot, in this case Mme. Lenormand acted
as clairvoyant rather than as chiromancer, as in the latter part it is
difficult to give such exact details.
Another case extracted from the Annals of Psychic Sciences:—
Lady A. discovers one day (in 1896) the disappearance of a considerable
sum which had been placed in a travelling bag, the latter itself having
been locked up in a cupboard. She calls on a clairvoyant, Mrs. £ .
The latter consults the coffee grounds, then the cards, and tells her
th at the theft has been committed by a member of the staff of the
house and not by a stranger, describes the topography of the flat of
Lady A., tells how the theft has been committed (the bank notes having
been withdrawn from the bag one by one without forcing the lock).
She further added that the thief would not be caught, but going on from
theft to crime, would one day suffer the last penalties of the law. Two
years later the thief was found and arrested for murder. He was
a former footman of Lady A., none other than the sinister Marchandon.
Mrs. E., it will be seen, combined three forms of metagnomy—
knowledge of the past, distant sight and foresight of events concerning
a third party.
• • • • • •
To some extent related to clairvoyance is psychometry, the ability
of perceiving the fluid impregnations of things or persons and the
astral images which remain in the aura of things ana persons.
We shall see presently what it is that is called aura, and we shall
say a few words as to the virtual images of events and as to their forma*
tion. Here we will only remember th at if the psychic emanations
of each of us leave a trace, in the same manner things are impregnated
with the radiations of those who touch them and thus retain a part
of their aura, th a t is the pictured remembrance of the events which
concern them and in which they have been mixed.
That is why, when a psvchometrist places an article on his forehead
with the purpose of “ making it speak ” he perceives little by little
a series of pictures relative to the destiny of the article.
The classic example of this kind of phenomena is given by Papus
who made a series of experiments before a meeting of scientists and
writers to which he had brought a friend gifted with psychometry,
and to whom someone offered for divination an antique watch. Tne
medium first saw a royal court at the time of Mme. de Pompadour
and a duel, then a scene under the Revolution where an old woman
mounted the scaffold, then a hospital where a surgical operation was
298 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
being performed. Now the owner of the watch, utterly astounded,
admitted that it had come to him from an ancestor who had been
killed in a duel during the reign of Louis XV, that it had passed through
the hands of an ancestress who was guillotined under tne Terror, and
that, having long forgotten it among his heirlooms, he had worn it
on the day when an operation was performed on his wife.
To Mr. Phaneg, one of the most able and most learned of psycho-
metrists of the present day, a photograph is given. He puts it to his
forehead, and soon finds himself in an inn where everything is in
disorder and where a lady and a child seem to be in a state of terror.
Not far off soldiers arrive, invade the house, force the doors and carry
off the lady and the child. Mr. Phaneg’s vision stops. Then he
is told th at the photograph is that of a lady captured by the Germans
in a village in the east of France during the war of 1870.
In short, concludes Papus, an article may carry its history written
invisibly around it, just as a human being carries around him “ a
radiation invisible to the human eye, but perceptible to the trained
soul.” In this radiation are inscribed in the form of pictures the
results of our thoughts and our deeds. This radiation is termed aura,
and there is an aura for each of the three principles which form the
human body—a physical aura, an astral aura, a mental aura.1 I t is
this radiation which accounts for sympathy and antipathy; it is
by this radiation th a t a trained occultist discovers the value of a man
much more than from his features.
I t is possible to become a trained psychometrist, claims P. Jagot,
for each one of us possesses this faculty more or less. B ut it requires
very strong will-power, practice for an hour a day a t least, absolute
concentration, the stopping of the course of thought and the obtaining
of mental passivity to such an extent that on applying an article to
the forehead and keeping it there by a bandage it becomes possible
to evoke a series of pictures which shall disclose the main features
of its history.8
We might also say a word about magic mirrors. B ut as it is
necessary in certain cases to follow a ritual, we refer the reader for these
to the chapter of Magic Sciences.
* It is A is latter, well known in religious tradition, which forms the halo (aureole) round
the heads of the Saints.
* In order to practise psychometry, which is absolutely free of danger, it is best in the
beginning, according to P. Piobb, to use letters or postcards from acquaintances. Darkness
or twilight are beat. Experiments should be made every day at the same hour, taking oare not
to become impatient. The time will always come when pictures are formed, at first vague,
then more ana more distinct (the face of the writer, the plaaa where it was written, where it was
posted, otc.)
Having obtained snooess with written documents, any kind of article may then be taken.
And the very oldest will thus reveal the civilisations of the past.
S E C O N D A R Y D I V I N A T I O N S 290
300
On the other hand, since we have spoken of the possibility of the
impregnation of objects by physical fluids, let us mention those truly
extraordinary phenomena which are termed gamahfa.
Gamahis are stones which bear most curious signs of which it is
impossible to say whether they are natural or the result of a fluidic
impregnation.
King Pyrrhus had an agate in which could be seen the nine Muses
dancing. In Venice, in the Church of St. George there used to be a
block of marble on which were drawn the Crucifix with the nails and
the wounds of our Lord, and an altar of veined marble on which a
death’s head grinned. Albert the Great speaks of a block of marble
which, sawn m two, revealed the head of a crowned king painted
perfectly. In Pisa wats seen on a stone an old hermit sitting near a
brook with a bell in his hand. In Constantinople there was a John
the Baptist dressed in a camel skin. In 1769 could be seen in the
right aisle of the Cathedral in Paris a Christ crucified iii a block of
black marble placed in the wall of the choir.
Is all this the work of Nature ? Look at broken pebbles. You
will see images inscribed on them, landscapes, heads, figures, letters.
Gamahis may be flat, hollow or in relief, of one colour or of several.
Chance ? I t is by no means certain. Remember the figures obtained
in molten lead, in coffee grounds, etc. I t is said that these pictures
may be formed as on a seeing retina—a cross may appear on a pebble
which is broken by a fervent Christian whilst he is thinking of the
emblem of the cross, a railway engine may show vaguely on stones
which witness a railway accident.
Can the stone itself register an impression ? Who knows ?
Lightning does sometimes turn photographer! In August 1850 a
young girl was standing at a window facing a walnuttree at the moment
of a flash of lightning; a picture of the tree was found on her body.
In September 1857 lightning struck a tree under which a woman and
the cow she was looking after were sheltering. The cow was killed,
but its picture was engraved on the chest of the fainting woman.
Ordinary photography is in short a flat gamaJU.
I t is well known that the root of the mandragora resembles the
genital organs of man. In Holland the picture of a priest with stole
and chalice has been found in a tree sawn in two. And do not pregnant
women see marks develop on their skin in certain cases of fear or strong
emotion or envy?
The review Psychica has on several occasions given cases of naevi
in animals, such as a date inscribed on a sack of flour being reproduced
on the bodies of two kittens born near the sack; in the eye of a chicken
the portrait of a person disliked by the hen; and also on the two sides
of a calf otherwise well made the picture on one side of a man who
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
301
apparently wanted to run, with his arms raised; on the other side that
of a dog with its mouth open. In the latter case the owner said that
he remembered very well that during the time the cow was in calf it
was chased and frightened by the farm dog, and that he himself ran
after his too faithful guardian, scolding it and raising his arms.
Mr. Schwaeble, in his Problem o f E vil, says that a horse slipping
on a stone and suddenly startled may well form a gatnahi, that is to
say the picture of its head on a piece of stone. He mentions “ the
Tree of the ten thousand pictures " seen by Father Hue in the Lamaist
Convent at Koun-Boum in Thibet which bears on its leaves and its
bark pictures of Thibetan characters inscribed which are renewed each
spring.
How can these phenomena, which resemble each other after all,
be explained ? Let us leave pure chance on one side. As to some
of them it might perhaps be claimed that they are of ectoplasmic
origin. It is well known that ectoplasm is the exteriorisation, in whole
orinpart, ofsensitivenessinthe shapenotonlyoffluidbutofavaporous
substance which can be seen and photographed. It might be assumed,
following the lightning, the vagaries of which we mentioned just now,
that a being underthe stress or a strong emotion might exteriorise his
picture, or, which amounts to the same thing, that a very impression
able person may evoke on his own body the picture of aexterior object.
Certain psychists who have studied very deeply problems of
transcendental occultism claim that the larv« of the invisible intervene
in these strange occurrences. But this is Magic pure and simple.
We had already touched upon it in discussing divining mirrors. Let
us approach it'deliberately in our second part which will provide us
more astonishment and valuable information.
S E C O N D A R Y D I V I N A T I O N S
S E C O N D P A R T
T H E M AGICAL SC IEN CES
Magic, Hermetic Philosophy are rational, positive, for they
proclaim the constancy ofnatural lam ; hut they teachthat thefeta
of operation of these Utws is infinite and that most of them are still
unknown to men. Hence the miraculous, supernatural appearance,
the extraordinary aspect of some phenomena which in reality are
very simple.
F. J o l u v e t -Ca s t e l o t .
CHAPTER I
P r e l i m i n a r y
I n principle Magic should stand at the beginning of an Encyclopaedia
of Occult Sciences, for it is in fact the first scientific, religious, moral
and political doctrine of Humanity. It is the traditional science
of the secrets of Nature, and in the beginning it contained them all.
I t is the collection of the knowledge which its owners did not wish
to reveal to the common herd incapable of understanding it and in
whom it might engender a fatal pride. Magic is the old name of
Occultism, the science of the philosophers of India, of Chaldea, of
Persia, of Egypt, who were called Magi.1 Magic formulae are found
in the Vedas, m the Egyptian ritual, in the Chaldean books, in the
Hebrew Kabbala.
“ Magic,” writes Jollivet-Castelot, “ is by no means, as most outsiders
imagine, the negation of Science. Quite on the cohtrary Magic is Science,
but Science with syntheses, almost integral Science, its horizons being the
Absolute, the Infinite in Unity.
“ Magic therefore dominates the narrow, childish, earth-bound Science
of to-day, with the whole of its greatness and unique splendour. It is not,
in truth, Science which will ever explain Magic to the people, but it is Magic
which will progressively cause to be understood the doctrines of science which
to-day are still in their infancy; it is Magic which will develop in their true
sense the apparent mysteries of Nature, the present attempts at methods,
at systems and at theories.
“ In truth Magic is the knowledgeofthe action and the combination of the
forces of the Universe (there are none other in reality, as nothing can exist
outside Nature which makes up everything in the three cosmic dimensional
thestudy oftheir conduct, their involution, their evolution.”
From India, where it seems to have had its birth, Magic passed
to Chaldea, where, according to Diodorus of Sicily, a sacred tribe
1 Besides the word Magus is derived from the Greek Magos and the Chaldean Megdhum,
variations of the words Mog, Megh, Magh, which in Zend meant Priest, Wise, Excellent.
305
306
was entirely occupied with occult sciences. Thence it conquered
the world of antiquity. I t is found amongst the Cabiri ana the
Etruscans, in Greece in Homeric times, in short everywhere. B ut
for a long time already it had constituted a special part of Occultism
and was differentiated from the other sciences. I t is probable th a t
from the first days of Christianity various sects were formed which
preserved what they took to be the true Faith in God. They were
called Gnostics. Gnosis flourished in the third century, in the Alexan
drian Schools under Plotinus, Porphiry, Jamblichus who seems to have
joined Theurgy to Magic so as to prevent its deviation. Theurgy,
or White Magic, intercourse with the celestial spirits, would thus be
the pendant and the opposition to Black Magic or Goetia, intercourse
with the infernal spirits. As will be seen, Magic a t th a t time already
had a fairly precise meaning.
Amongst the famous Magi (of whom the three Kings who, led by
the Star, came to the Crib to bring to the newborn Jesus their gifts
and their worship, formed part) we must mention Moses and Solomon,
those admirable and powerful leaders of men, Hermes Trismegistes,
Appolonius of Thyana, the Emperor Julian, the Sorcerer Merlin,
Raymond, Lullius, Albert the Great, Paracelsus, names which some
times seem legendary, names of strange deep minds who also practised
alchemy and other occult sciences and in our own days men like
Eliphas Levi, Stanislas de GuaTta, Sar Peladan, Papus. 'Truly Magic
becomes modernised like every other intellectual activity, as we shall
see presently.1
Naturally the Church waged war on the Magi, or rather on
the Magicians (for the word Magi is better confined to the Wise Men
of old and a few modem ones, and Magicians used for those who
specialised in Magic). I t purposely confounded them with the Sorcerers
(who in fact also often practised Magic), fearing their power and their
authority. Hence, in order to escape from its persecutions, the
Magicians, alchemists and other custodians of the occult tradition,
concealed their knowledge in bizarre formulae or under the veil of
secret writing.
Even this secret writing, or cryptography, was not originated by
them. I t was practised in antiquity. The Celts had one made of
small sticks; the Egyptians had their hieroglyphics,* the Greeks their
scytalus (for secret correspondence). Cryptography was revealed
1 Let tts mention the excellent translation of the carious Archidoxut Magicua, in seven
volumes, of Paracelsus, by Maurice Pelletier who has supplied an interesting introduction con.
tabling the key of contemporary occult science. It shows how the science of the ancient Magi
agrees with the latest data from our laboratories {Durville—publisher).
• It would be a mistake to think that the hieroglyphics were the current writing of the
Egyptians. They were only their sacred writing. They had another, oalled Aierotic, winch was
used by the priests, and another called demotic, used by the people.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
to us by two works of Abb£ Trith&me (his Polygraphy and his Steno
graphy) and others published since dealing with this question.
Bose de Veze in his Little Synthetic Encydopcedia of Occult Sciences,
which is not very well arranged and very far from complete, writes
th at the ancient occult nomenclature divided Magic into four sections:
1. Natural Magic, being the possibility of performing certain
miraculous deeds by a deeper knowledge of the phenomena of Nature.
This was defined by Father Kircher as the Knowledge of the Sympathy
and the Antipathy ofthings. I t was the Magic of Hermes Trismegistes
and of Zoroaster; it was the High Kabbala.
2. Mathematical Magic, of the thorough knowledge of the laws
of Mechanics. I t was tne knowledge of Albert the Great, of Boetius,
etc.
8. Poisonous Magic, thus called by Agrippa, because it deals with
philters, with mysterious potions, with metamorphoses, etc. I t was
the Magic of Medea, of Circe.
4. Ceremonial Magic, the most powerful, the most terrible, whether
Black Magic or Theurgy, which supplied the means of communicating
with the spirits.
Another classification is given by J. E. Bourgeat, th at is to say,
for all Magic Sciences two kinds of teaching—the exoteric method,
taught in public, and the esoteric method, reserved to the initiates.
Exoterism comprised the legends, the pictures, the symbols, the
remains of which are the Bible, the Arabian Tales, the Fairy Tales,
the Pentacles and other representative designs. Esoterism, oral
teaching transm itted from generation to generation was the share of
the very intelligent only who proved their courage and their strength,
and were worthy to know the keys of the exoteric language.
Mr. Bourgeat gives two apt illustrations in support of nis theory.
Let us take with him the episode of the Temptation in the Earthly
Paradise. We read it in the B ible; it is known to all children who
learn their Biblical H istory:—Adam, Eve, the seducing Serpent,
dialogue between Eve and the Demon-Reptile, the sin, innocence
lost, the departure before the flaming sword of the Cherubim guarding
the road which leads to the Tree of Life. . . . That is the Exoteric
Tale.
B ut now Esoterism intervenes and says:—Adam is none other
than the representation of the active human element, intellect; Eve
personifies tne passive, love. Now the active succumbs to the sense
attraction of tne passive, thus abdicating his intellect. Man then
evolves towards animalism (God in fact covers Adam with the skin
of beasts before driving him out). He must leave Eden, that is to say
the Circle of Life, and he shall not re-enter it until he has vanquished
P R E L I M I N A R Y 307
308
the Cherub (the soul of the Earth, the secret science, represented bv
the Cherubim) whose flaming sword sends out flashes of truth which
blind the ordinary man instead of enlightening him.
Another instance: the Egyptian Sphinx, for the non-initiated,
was a fabulous animal, with a human head, a woman’s breast, the
loins of a bull, the claws of a lion, the wings of an eagle.1 To the
initiated this human head represented intelligence and knowledge;
the claws daring and action; the loins will-power, perseverance and
labour; the folded wings silence. Hence the quaternary of the
Magi:—Know, dare, will, keep silent.
The initiate also finds in the Sphinx
the four elements, Are (the lion’s claws),
water (the woman’s breasts), earth (the
loins of the bull), air (the wings of the
eagle). And thus the Sphinx represents
the light of the stars and its properties.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
On the other hand Pierre Piobb in his
Formulary ofHigh Magic says:—Magic
after all, according to Karl du Prel,
is nothing but unknown Natural Science.
Formerly the three great sciences of
Astrology, Alchemy and Magic proper
were confounded in the same expression.
To-day they are carefully divided:—
Astrology celestial deals with the bodies as
regards their nature and their movements.
It is the science of words.
Alchemy deals with matter as regards its
essence and its evolution. It is hyper-
chemistiy.
Magic keeps as its own province the fluids
which are a manifestation of the fourth state of matter. It begins where
physics end, it is hyperphysics.
B ut even from the point of view of Magic, P. Piobb distinguishes
between on the one hand superstition, charlatanism, what Eliphas
Levi calls “ the sign which survives the thought, the dead corpse of
a religious practice ” and which is but a deformed practice, a carica
ture of the supreme Science, and on the other hand the latter, which
is worthy of esteem and study, and which survives in the utilisation
of the three fluids, magnetic, astral and essential, in its four form s:—
1 Compare the symbols of the four Evangelista, the angel, the ball, the lion, the eagle.
309
(1) Man acting on himself or (2) on the outside world.
(8) The fluid acting in the star or (4) outside the star.
The first two forms constitute microcosmic magic.
The latter two constitute macrocosmic magic.
Each form acts in two ways, the personal and the ceremonial.
The personal is carried on without the assistance of an outside
ritual.
The ceremonial is carried on with the assistance of an outside ritual.
I t is in short the one used by religions.
Ceremonial Magic, says F. A. Barlet, is an operation by means
of which man seeks to coerce by the very action of natural forces the
invisible powers of various orders to act in accordance with his demands.
Hence pentacles, special condensers, conditions of time and space
to observe. This resembles industrial science, where human power
is as nothing compared with steam, electricity, explosives, etc., but
where it becomes formidable when it is able to use these powers.
As to personal magic, it also is very efficacious when it succeeds
in utilising those two forces which ore so simple for the layman, Love
and the Word, but whose power is multiplied a hundredfold for the
initiate.
How much could not be said as to the real creative force of Love
and the Word 1 A phrase occurs to us at the moment found in an
interview which V. Mandelstamm had with the healer Jean Bezant
(see appendix):—“ The Cause cannot help loving the Effect.” How
should the creator of a thing not love this thing, issued from
himself ? I t is natural; it is inevitable. Love draws. Love resolves.
Love conquers. As to the Word, it also is a marvellous lever, it is
the powerful, headstrong, victorious expression of Thought. The
Word, says Dr. Baraduc, goes so far as to alter the visceral and psychic
vitality of the subject, whom according to its will it makes ill or of
good health.
Paul Jagot, finally, starting scientifically from hyper-psychic
phenomena and the constitution of Man according to Occultism (see
below) deduces two classes of modern Magic—the personal or psychic
Magic, and the traditional Magic, in which latter he includes Black
Magic.
By the former he understands the possibility of using Man's own
reactionary power for the creation of astral movements which shall
serve as agents in the realisation of his will. By the latter, the addition
of new elements and the attem pt at influencing the cosmic currents
with the view of obtaining by their properly directed action effects
in relation with their nature. This influence is effected—and here
P R E L I M I N A R Y
310
we fall back on the traditional data collected and classified by P. Piobb
—at the time indicated by Occult Science, when the modality of forces
and the entities which govern them offer a maximum of power, and by
means of substances and writings which, by the operation of the law
of correspondences, are appropriate condensers.
I t is not easy to bring these various ideas into relation. To succeed
in doing so we shall use three chapter headings:—Low Magic, Alchemy,
High Magic.
By Low Magic we understand, without giving the least derogatory
meaning to this description, the whole of magic practices ancient ana
modern.
Alchemy will keep its well known meaning and realm of hyper*
chemistry.
High Magic will be for us the occult interpretation of the Cosmos
and Humanity—in fact Hermetic Philosophy.
Through Low magic we shall, by means of hyperpsychics, arrive
a t Spiritualism.
Through High Magic we shall, by means of hyperphysics, arrive
a t Theosophy.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
CHAPTER II
Low Ma g i c
I
Witchcraft
T e n years ago we should have begun this chapter by saying th at
W itchcraft was the collection of the practices of Low Magic long worn
out and which were like the slime a t the bottom of the Lake of Occult
Sciences, a t the present day decanted by the wisdom of the elect.
B ut after reading this or th a t formulary or ritual of Eliphas Levi, of
Papus or of Pierre Piobb, or some volume of Jagot, all of which deal
quite seriously of these extraordinary matters, after learning th a t
phenomena luce those of psychometry or clairvoyance by mirrors
are scientifically obtained, and th at some queer act of bewitching
does not belong to the realm of chimeras, we are compelled to stop
on the threshold of the mysterious Temple on the other side of which
we merely imagined a collection of illusions or cheatings, and we open
the door only with caution to see and try to understand.
Very imprudent would be the man, who, without prejudice, and
anxious to make no errors, would dive for information into some
History of Occult Sciences like th a t of the Count de Resi, or even
the greater number of the contemporary books which claim th a t they
are free “ from the superstition of former times." Let us, objectively
and without comment for the moment, confine ourselves to remarking
th a t witchcraft goes back to the very oldest times, and is merged with
Magic, which accounts for the name of magicians given indiscriminately
to sorcerers and to magi.
The Jews, the Greeks, the Romans, the Germans, the Scandina
vians practised W itchcraft, but it must be noted th a t a time came
when they distinguished between Magi and Sorcerers, and punished
the latter as criminals. The same thing happened in the Middle
Ages when they were confounded with Heretics. The fight of Justice
against them relaxed in the 15th century, when an era of free dis
cussion seemed to dawn. B ut Papal Bulls1soon reinforced the horrors
1 Innocent VIII (1484), Alexander VI, Leo X, John XIII. The rising Protestantiam added
to the fury of the Church, which engulfed Protestants and Witches in one debauch of cruel
punishments.
311
of the Inquisition. The fires of persecution multiplied, again exciting
the people. Under Charles IX there were more than 30,000 witches
in France.
Let us now mention the “ crimes ” of the witches, catalogued by
Bodin under fifteen main heads. And first let us mention the
Sabbath, which in reality was the ceremony of initiation, and the
origin of which seems to go back to the earliest days of Christianity,
when the Celts, in protest against the new religion, secretly preserved
the worship of the god Pan and celebrated it according to a ritual
which was modified from time to time and eventually came to follow
the rites of the adepts of Satanism.1
The Great Sabbath united once in three months all the sorcerers
and witches of a State. The Little Sabbath called together once a
week the initiates of a town or small region. I t took place in a lonely
spot, a wood, ruins, the side of a lake, cross roads (even if a cross was
erected there), the foot of a gallows, and began towards midnight.
The initiates arrived riding on broomsticks, and very soon the Devil
in person (was it trickery, hallucination or evocation ?) was seated on
a throne, having a t his side the Queen-Mother, or Queen of Witches.
Sometimes a Goat took the place of the Devil. And before the All-
Lowest, either in the flesh or by deputy, the new recruits were brought.
And now the neophyte prostrates himself, renounces God, the
Virgin, the Catholic Faith, delivers himself body and soul to Lucifer,
and takes the oath of allegiance to him. Then he kisses his left hand,
his mouth, his heart and his genitals. The Black Master places the
stigma diaboli on his left shoulder. After this the assistants strip
him and rub him with a foetid ointment.9
Thereupon homage is rendered to Lucifer by kissing his base, and
work begins. Powders, drinks, magic ointments are prepared, using
mainly among plants ivy and hemlock, valerian and asphodel, and also
extraordinary ingredients such as snakes’ teeth, toad’s skin, the entrails
of hanged men, the brain of a newborn babe, the excrement of the
owl, the gall of the goat, in short everything that may seem strange,
repugnant, horrible. Spells are uttered, bewitchments made, curses
pronounced. Then the festival begins. Scenes of extravagant
eroticism take place, wild dances are performed in a fury of exaltation
which turns all heads and ends in a kind of general epilepsy and in
monstrous connections. But fatigue and exhaustion in the end over
come the victims, they collapse until, when the sound of infernal music
* Micbelet thinks that possibly Witchcraftwas in some way a revolt of the people against
the double power of the Church and the State.
1 It may also be that having first been rubbed with this ointment, the adapts went to the
Sabbath «n a dream, or with their astnd body (see Appendix).
312 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
restores their vigour, the celebrated Round of the Sabbath begins,
which ends at cock-crow in a general flight.
About the year 1800 a supplemental ritual began to be used, the
Black Mass. It started with the general confession, in which of course
every one boasted of the most abominable crimes. Satan or his deputy
then read a blasphemous parody of the ordinary Mass, preached a
sermon inciting to evil, ridiculed in gestures frequently indecent the
consecration, gave in communion to his disciples no one knows what
fantastic meats and drinks (even the remains of deceased sorcerers),
and then gave free course to the above mentioned convulsions.
The frequently sadistic imagination of the judges was never a t a
loss in order to obtain confessions from those accused of witchcraft
and subsequently executing them. I t was by the cleansing (!) fire
that they were chastised after trials abounding in judicial infamies
as to which we shall keep silence.
These trials were especially numerous in the 16th century which
saw the condemnation amongst others of Verdun and Burgot who
confessed having turned themselves into wolves and devoured children,
the famous sorcerer Trois-Echelles who claimed to have 8,000
accomplices, Gilles Gamier of Lyons, accused of lycanthropy and
anthropophagy, 400 Huguenots at one time who were charged with
magic as a convenient means of punishing their heresy, La Mole and
Coconas who, it was said, tried to bewitch Henri III, ana a considerable
number of other “ apostates, idolaters, sodomites, homicides, en
chanters and worshippers of the Devil.”
“ The examination in these strange trials,” writes Florian Par-
mentier, “ presented inexplicable anomalies. Nothing could shake
the conviction of the judges, neither the conflicting depositions of the
witnesses nor the absurd talcs of the accused. Further not one minute
of judgment specifies the actual offence.”
We are entitled to conclude on the one hand that the abominations
of the sorcerers and witches have been enormously exaggerated, and
on the other hand that in the case of most of them there existed, in
the words of Dr. Regnard, “ an epidemic disease of the mind ” which
brought on all the above mentioned exaltations, some of which may
have degenerated into the fiercest eroticism as well as into actual
murders.
In the opinion of Lombroso (Hypnotism and Spiritism), the
primitives, tne ignorant country people worshipped individuals
(sorcerers, magicians, prophets) who were true mediums, believed
to be capable (and sometimes actually capable) of breaking the laws
of nature by seeing at a distance, prophesying, levitating, communica
ting with angels, devils, and especially with the dead.
LOW MAGIC 318
314
In Sicily the people believe that men possessed have the gift of
tongues, tbiat witches transform themselves into cats, into bats, make
women barren, cast spells, etc., that there are good and bad Ladies
of the Night. In Benevento Blasio has seen as many as one per cent,
of the population hysterical, alcoholic, epileptic, and speaking a jargon
of their own.
In Portugal witches grew rich from predictions and philters.
According to Maurerie, they had their own quarter in Lisbon, and
the police tried in vain to take proceedings.
In France Brittany and the Vosges were especially infested by
magicians who told the future and cast spells. Looked a t closely,
the majority of these persons only produced more or less efficiently
most of the hyperpsycnic phenomena which to-day are well known
(see Third Parti.
The Arabs nave their aissaouas, their dervishes expert in clair
voyance by means of the magic mirror, the crystal or water, their
convulsed medidubs. The Patagonians have their prophet-physicians,
who, as in Brazil, are almost always epileptics. The Kaffirs have
isangonas or diviners who have to go through an apprenticeship.
The sorcerers of Madagascar stand in the front rank.
There is no end to the list of the various sorcerers of the successive
centuries and the various latitudes. B ut special mention is due to
the Fakirs of India of whom a former Consul in Benares, Jacolliot,
was one of the first to relate the marvellous feats. Thus the Fakir
Covindaswamy, to name but one, was able, by leaning on the knob
of a stick, to rise in the air with legs crossed in Eastern fashion and
to remain in this position for twenty minutes, to make it impossible
for any one to lift a small table whlch he had magnetised by laying
his hajids on it, to play a musical instrument from a considerable
distance, to make a stick write, without his touching it, on the sand
a word thought by another person, to make a papaw seed germinate
and prow to eight inches by the laying on of hands, to let himself be
Su t into a coffin and buried in the ground for ten months without
ying, to produce above a chafing dish hands which move and pick
flowers. All these phenomena Delong clearly to mediumship or
hyperpsychics (see Third Part).
• • • • * »
In his book on Witchcraft Mr. Florian Parmentier tries to take
its mechanism to pieces, and says some very apt things about it, the
chief of which is as follows:—
“ The origin of the demoniac part of Witchcraft,” he thinks, “ comes
in truth from the Catholic dogma relating to the existence of the Devil.
Witchcraft has taken hold of this thought (which perhaps is but a
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
symbol) and has made it into a reality which, in its turn deformed
by the popular imagination, has become a new dogma, viz., the belief
in a Devil having well settled shape and attributes (horns, cloven
foot, tail, smell of sulphur, etc.), able to appear and disappear, full
of an evil power and in short only desiring to do mischief. With
whose assistance shall he do mischief? W ith whose but that of the
sorcerers ?
“ On the other hand, the people, unable to explain the ills under
which it laboured, found it only natural to attribute them to the Devil
and to his agents. At once, then, sudden deaths, epilepsies and any
illness out of the ordinary, accidents, reverses of fortunes, murrains,
calamities of all kinds were attributed to sorcerers. Better still, or
rather worse still, the fact of being independent, of having opinions
contrary to those of the rest, knowing the properties of herbs and
simples, being able to reduce a sprain, all this meant to be more or
less in touch with the Devil. During a thousand years, says Michelet,
the witch was the sole physician of the People. The wealthy had
ercourse to certain rare men who were thought to be able to heal without
recourse to witchcraft. B ut the vulgum pecus always applied to the
aaga, vague wise woman, or rather woman who was more or less a
w itch; out of respect she was called Good L ady; at bottom she
inspired fear; further this healer did not hesitate to bring about
abortions or poisonings which Medicine, then rudimentary, was unable
to denounce (for autopsy was unknown).
“ Besides,” says Mr. Florian Parmentier very aptly, “ since it
was a religious dogma to believe in the Devil, why should it not be
allowed to accuse him of everything which seemed supernatural ?
Thus we may explain the credulity of superior minds a t the same time
good Catholics, such as Pica della Mirandola, Jean Femel or Ambrose
P a r i”
Finally his conclusion is well worth remembering:—“ Luminosity,
electro-magnetic waves, forces in motion and actions a t the beginning
of their performance, all these in the universe in fact repulse ana
attract each other and give rise to unsuspected reactions. Hypnotism,
mental automatism, thought transference, opaque vision, high frequency
electricity with its millions of oscillations per second, X rays and the
photography of the Invisible, the telegraphing of pictures, tele-auto
graphy and tele-mechanics, the N ray ana the emanations of radium,
all these are so many forces which to-day are disciplined, phenomena
which we know to be produced by radiation and to act a t a distance
on appropriate receivers. Now the human brain and the human
nervous system are so far as we know the most perfected receiving
apparatus for all magnetic currents, for all the vibrations of the psychic
atmosphere. And this leads us to think in the last resort that mani
LOW MAGIC 315
316
festations attributed to occult causes have in truth merely changed
their name, and that the witchcraft of the devil has been followed in
our own time, the great scientific witchcraft which, like the other,
has its initiations, its phenomena, its mysteries, its conquests of the
infinite, and also its superstitions, its trickeries and its errors.”
Where, however, Mr. Florian Parmentier makes a mistake, and
where he goes farther than he needs for his exposition, is in saying that
there is no call, in his opinion, to be surprised a t the credulity of
yesterday when we consider the credulity of to-day. Why, he asks
in substance, in the 16th century should not people believe in the devil
when in the 20th century they still believe in the follies of Spiritualism!
On the face of it he is right. As an occultist he exaggerates. There
is no need to put in issue the disturbing although still unexplained
phenomena of mediumship; he thinks these are natural if they exist,
and we agree with him on this point, for these phenomena do in truth
come within the scope of natural events, since they are true and not
chimerical. As to Spiritualism, he is perhaps somewhat hasty in
condemning it.
Where he frankly is right is in seeking out and showing up the
amount of imposture and charlatanism which exist in witchcraft.
W ith him we are convinced that there were a t the time thousands of
tricks, that the judges proceeded through stupidity, through sadism
and even through self-interest (they profited to some extent from
the confiscation of the property of the condemned), th at W itchcraft
supported revolts against the Government, th a t crooks of all kinds
used it for their own benefit (and also cunning lovers), th at eroticism
profited by it at a time when the law was severe with free love, that
some so-called magic formulae were at bottom mere aphrodisiacs,
that hysteria played a considerable part in those troublous times
when, in default of morphia or cocaine, the properties of opium, of
stramonium, of belladonna, of datura, of hemp were brought into
use, that the drugs prepared in accordance with magical formulae
must of necessity produce a thousand hallucinations, somnambulism,
even the mad imaginings which caused sorcerers and witches to confess
“ crimes ” which they had never committed except in dream, th at
hypnotism played its part in the m atter (impressionability bring
greater than to-day and the number of neurotics and weaklings more
considerable), that the spells cast might well be nothing but suggestion,
that the cases of demoniac possession might be merely auto-suggestion
(the same remark applying to exorcism), that sorcerers might be able,
like some modems, to heal or relieve through magnetism and to
hypnotise themselves like the Fakirs, believe themselves, like the
mediums, to be visited by spirits, and to practise witchcraft in the
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
317
manner of Mr. de Rochas, by explaining this true phenomenon by
the exteriorisation of sensitiveness.
Yes, we believe all that, and it considerably lessens the mysteries
of Low Magic and makes them into a frequently caricaturing intro*
duction to the great modem psychic experiments.
LOW MAGIC
II
The Storehouse and the Prescriptions o f Low M agic
After this preamble it will be surmised that we shall not occupy
ourselves for long with the practices of Witchcraft. We shall give
a list of them, together with the strange prescriptions and the grotesque
storehouse of Low Magic, intentionally confusing the ancient and the
mediaeval tradition, and confining ourselves to extracting from curious
books and spell-books of all kinds, which had an amazing circulation
and which are still being republished and modernised, those things
which appealed to us the least extravagant and also the most typical,
all this, of course, merely as historical and informative. B ut those
who in spite of everything think th at these formulae may possibly
have retained some efficacy need not hesitate to try them.
I t will not be difficult to find in the following information on any
desired subject concerning these survivals from ancient times and
popular beliefs, and we also mention the names and give some details
of the most famous of the books of Ancient Magic. After th at we shall
go on to the modernisation o f traditional M agic.
Abraxas
This first word correctly describes the storehouse of the sorcerers,
the main items of which were natural talismans, magic formulae, rings,
wands, weapons, magic rings and mirrors, the flying pistol, baby’s
skins, virgin parehment, virgin wax and soil, etc.
The chief natural Talismans were :—
The mandragora, inspiration of love.
The topaz, driver of! of black thoughts.
The ruoy, quieter of excited senses.
The hyena skin, which makes invulnerable.
Powdered toad, which produces love.
The bezoar, universal panacea.
318 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Amulets and Talismans
These are various articles, consecrated or not, which protect against
illness, misfortune and accident. They also bring luck and success.
But, says £ . Bose, they are of value only if the wearer has faith in
them. And Eliphas Levi says, “ The talismans in this resemble the
Catholic host, which is salvation for the just and damnation for the
sinner, and which thus, according to the state of him who receives
them, means God or the Devil.”
The Jews have among their talismans a roll of parchment called
mezuroth. They place it in the lintel of the doors of their houses, or
carry it on them in a small case so as to comply with the saying in
Deuteronomy, “ You shall never forget the law of God and shall engrave
it on the lintels of your doors.”
The talismans sold by the pedlars of Occultism, or which are
advertised, are swindles, says Scnwaeble in his Book of Luck, seeing
that, to be efficacious, the talisman must be made by the person it
concerns. There are some which are worn on the person because
they remedy one’s defects or strengthen one’s qualities, and others
are used on special occasions only. Some writers say th at for the
former a metal disc must be cut corresponding to the planet which
rules one's life, and the signs of such planet engraved on the disc;
others say that two discs must be used-, one for the planet ruling one’s
life, the other for the planet strengthening or modifying it.
The following are also mentioned as bringing luck:—
A horn made of coral or gold or stone.
A piece of the cord of a hanged man.
One of the sacred stones in astrological relation with the wearer
(see below).
A little bag containing the eye of a woodpecker, the eye of a weasel,
a crystal ring, a penny with a hole in it, a fragment of an acrolith
(stone fallen from the sky) and dust from a menhir.
Also a four-leaved clover, but picked by the wearer, either at
midnight on a Friday during the first three days of the Moon, or in
bright sunshine between noon and three o’clock either in a lonely spot
or in a graveyard; if it has not been picked by you yourself, it should
be given you by a friend and handed to you by the stalk. Wear it
round the neck in a locket.
Let us look a t the Jewish Kabbala of Paul Vulliaud. Amulets,
he says, are of great interest in the study of religions, of folklore, of
practical Kabbala. Their use is universal, whether they are called
Hemelets (in Persia), Amuleta (in Rome), Teraphim (in Mesopotamia),
Phylacteries (in Greece), Totapoth (in Egypt), or Tebhulim (in Chaldea),
319
Talismanic art is the art of making these articles from which we expect
a protection, and the name of which means “ that which is attached.”
The first human ornaments seem to have been amulets (earrings,
etc.) Breast jewelry, rings on the hand were charms. Precious stones
were always looked upon as endowed with magic virtues. Soon the
word amulet came to mean a small bag hung round the neck and
containing roots, seeds and other articles which had an efficacious occult
power, or a metal disc engraved with Kabbalistic signs.
The Jews had a whole series of forbidden and permitted amulets.
A whole book might be written on their talismanic art, also on th at
of other nations. We shall forbear, merely saying that Christianity
had and has its amulets (scapularies, medals, holy relics, etc.), the
same as other religions.1
In conclusion let us draw attention to thd theory and the instances
of talismans given by Papus.2
The language of the Invisible World is the Picture, says the great
modern magician, for the picture is understood by every one. Hence
a symbolic language seen by clairvoyants, consecrated by Tradition
ana used in the making of talismans.
Talismans influence the plane which is in relation with the graphic
characters of which they are made and with the ceremonies which
have been used to fix their astral attraction.
The hieroglyphic signs of the talismans must be inscribed on virgin
parchment on which no other image has yet been set, even in thought
(what we have said above as to psychometry and as to objects retaining
the impression of the persons and the things with which they have
been in touch, will be remembered). Virgin parchment is made of
the skin of still-born animals.
Magic Rings
These are amulets with varying properties according to their con
secration. W ith their aid the magicians, it seems, worked miracles.
‘ The talismans used in magic are the visible signsof the Principles, the channels of energy,
corresponding to piers ; they are the piers, the accumulators of the astral; the energy is cap
tured, imprisoned in them, directed by means of the operations of the Magician, through his
incantations, the power of the strength of the Magician and the power borrowed by him from
Nature, this energy being communicated to the thugs which are the conductors of the nervous
and magneto-ethero-electric fluid.
The religious medals of all cults, the rosaries, the fetishes, the luck bringers, especially if
in metal, the scapularies, are magic talismans. But the devout dc not know the reason of their
influence, they attribute it to the gods instead of referring it to the universalEnergy,specialised
by religious or purely magic rites (as the case may be), which rites still further increase the
power of the talisman or the ceremony by reason of the Tradition (an occult chain in Space
and Time) and the solidarity of the.spirits all tending in the same direction and towards the
same end. (Jollivet-Castelot).
1 In the Book of Luck,
LOW MAGIC
According to Ch. V. Langlois, there were two well defined kinds of
magic rings:—
1. Those which gave their wearers supernatural powers.
2. Those which bound their wearers to some bondage.
One of the most famous rings of Antiquity was that called Solomon’s
ring in the stone of which the great King saw everything he wanted
to know (this was no doubt a case of clairvoyance of which phenomenon
we have already spoken).
The best known kinds of these rings were the following:—
The stellar rings which were worn, not on the finger, but round the neck
like a scapulary.
The handlers' rings which enabled them to cover long distances without
fatigue (there is no doubt that, through auto-suggestion, they simply
doubled the energy of the traveller).
Therings ofinvisibility,like that of Gyges,King of Lydia, which made their
wearer invisible to the eye. It had to be made of Bolid mercury and
ornamented with a stone which is only found in the nest of the hoopoe.
I t may be pointed out that wedding rings are a remnant of the
magic rings. They are worn on the ring finger, because in chiromancy
th at finger corresponds to the heart. The husband will be master
in the home, if, on placing it on his wife’s finger, he is careful to push
it right down.
320 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Magic Weapons.
Everyone knows the marvels worked by the celebrated Durandal,
the sword of Roland, who used to cleave a rock with it. I t obviously
was enchanted.
In witchcraft a magic or enchanted sword is an ordinary sword
consecrated. The magic sword is used either to trace the magic circle,
or in defence against the evil spirits of Invisibility.
A magic knife was a knife with a white handle, dipped in the blood
of a male goose on the day and at the hour of Mercury in an increasing
moon. Three ordinary Masses were read over this sword and certain
mysterious signs were written on it in exorcised sulphuret of mercury.
Magical and Divining Rods
The practice of Rhabdomancy (divination by a rod) was one of
the most highly honoured in Magic. It survives in the very remark
able art of the dowsers.
321
According to Father Lebrun, a divining rod is made half of alder*
wood, half of other wood. I t is balanced on a pivot fixed in the earth
in a spot where water may be expected to be. He says th at before
the sun has dispersed the morning dew, the alder, more porous than
other wood, absorbs the aqueous emanations of the soil (sign of water)
and dips down if there is a sheet of water or a spring. Nothing remains
but to dig.
The celebrated rod with which Moses smote the rock to make water
gush forth was undoubtedly a rod of this kind which he knew how to
use.
Another kind of dowser’s rod is simply a fork of walnut wood about
18 inches long, one year old and as thick as a finger. The rod is grasped
by its two ends, the point of the fork forward, and the dowser goes
slowly over the region where he expects to find water below ground.
A t the exact spot where there is water, the point of the rod dips towards
the ground.
The rhabdomancer Royer used for this fork alder, oak or pear
wood indiscriminately, balanced it on the back of hfs hands, and,
walking slowly, pointed out where there was water at the moment
when the rod began to turn by itself.
As will be seen, Rhabdomancy has nothing magical, and belongs
to pure physics. B ut the ignorant are surprised by the phenomenon,
and from surprise to a belief in witchcraft is but a step.
The true divining rod was used for three different discoveries—
water, hidden metal, the track of man. This last named property
is said to have been brought to light following on a very curious hap
pening in Lyons which we shall briefly relate, for it was much dis
cussed at the time, and has to some extent become classic in argument.
On the 5th July, 1692, in Lyons, a family of wine merchants were
killed in their cellar with a bill-hook, and the money in the shop was
stolen. In order to trace the murderers, a peasant of the Dauphin^,
Jacques Aymar, was called in, as he was said to be able to follow the
track of evildoers by means of a magic rod. The good man asked
to be taken to the cellar, and although he had not been told anything,
his rod began to turn in the exact two spots where the man and the
woman had been killed. He himself became highly feverish; he
went back to the shop, and from there passed into the street, still
led by his rod. He lest the town, went along the right of the river,
into the house of a gardener, maintained th at the murderers must
have sat down at his table to drink a bottle, which fact was confirmed
by two children who were questioned and whom the rod had pointed
out as knowing something of the drama. On the other hand, the
authorities having buried m some land belonging to Mr. de Mongirol
the bill-hook with which the crime had been committed, together with
LOW MAGIC
322
some others, Aymar found the former. Then he was accompanied
by a Clerkofthe Court andsome archers. He went backto the Rhone
and found that the culprits had taken a boat. Aymar followed them
on the water as on the land, landed everywhere where they had landed,
found the beds where they had slept, the tables where they had eaten.
The magician in this way went as far as Beaucaire, knew that they
had separated there, and followed the track of the accomplice who
most strongly affected the rod. He went as far as a prison, and among
a dozen prisoners, pointed to a hunchback who had been locked up
an hour before for some petty theft. On being questioned, the man
confessed after some resistance that he had been a witness of the
crime committed by two others. Aymar starts off again, goes as far
as Toulon and does not stop till he reaches the sea, where he says
that the murderers have taken a boat to escape abroad.
That is the story. A treatise on the Divining Rod in two volumes1
gives the following explanation:—
The Rod, also called Caduceus, divining Rod, Rod of Aaron, Staff
of Jacob, etc., was known in all times, and many writers mention it.
Its action is revealed by the “ philosophy of corpuscles,” the latter
being volatile agents, subtle forms of matter which are capable of
detaching themselves from bodies; it is they which, escaping from
the subterranean water, from a hidden treasure, or from a man whose
track is followed, influence the divining rod, just as would happen
in the case of the emanations of a scented object revealing its passage
to those who did not see it; the author likewise quotes the smell of
dogs who follow or find their master, and he sees an analogy with
the action of the rod, the latter being equally sensitive “ to the cor*
puscles.” But he admits that this sensitiveness belongs to the man
who communicates it to his tool which without him, would remain
inactive. And here he brings in the idea of magnetism.
As to the discovery of treasures, according to the author it must
be assumed that the rod correctly handled is sensitive to metallic
emanations, and he gives a list of mines found by this means, notably
in the Pyrenees, the Languedoc, Auvergne, etc. He also describes
the “ face of the sky ” under which the rod must be cut so as to find
the mines in accordance with the metal which they contain.
It is very curious to discover from this little book the progress
of criticism. Formerly the working of the rod was looked upon as
demoniac. Here occult physics are brought in and the theory of
corpuscles is discussed. Thus we attain to truth and the purely
scientific explanations given for instance to the divining rod of the
dowser, and which will some day in like manner be given of the other
phenomena of rhabdomancy.
1 Occult Phytitt, published by Moetiena at the Hague in 1772.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Enchiridion
The Enchiridion is a collection of magical prescriptions and prayers
discovered (or invented) by Pope Leo III and given by him to Charles
the Great in 800 to protect him against all evils. We extract from
it the following:—
Against thieves:—Throw into water the names of the suspected
thieves, each written on a piece of paper, and sa y :—“ Aragoni-
Parandamo-Eptalicon-Lamboured.” At these words one or more of
the papers will float; they reveal the names of the guilty.
Against ep ilep sy:—Blow into the right ear and repeat three tim es:
“ Fora consumatio est ramus-malin-rite-confedo-saluero.” A t these
words the patient will give a convulsive start. Drive three nails into
the ground at the spot where he fell, and add .*
—“ Valeam de zazoeo
attila alleluia.”
Against b u m s:—Place currant jelly on the wound and say three
times :—“ Esoenareth. Fire of God. Lose thy heat-Escenareth 1”
Against toothache:—Say “ Struggole faiusque lecutate, te decutinem
dolorum persona.”
There is a whole book full of these. The above extract will suffice.
I t will be seen th at the Enchiridion is based almost entirely on the
power of the word.
LOW MAGIC 323
Spells
Although we place spells among the Low Magic, later on, in the
third part of this book, the scientific explanation of this noted magical
practice will be found.
The spell consisted of making in wax a small statue or a heart
which was given the name of the enemy to be bewitched. (Sometimes,
in order to increase the likeness, this effigy was clothed in the same
manner as the hated object, and in order to accentuate the curse it
was tried to get a tooth, or hairs, or nail parings of this person, and
they were added to the dressing.) After this, concentrating on this
image with curses, it was torn with pins, pinched, skinned, crushed.
And the enemy endured the same sufferings, even death.
We said that below an explanation of bewitching will be found by
reason of the exteriorisation of sensitiveness. But some occultists1
say that the experiments of Mr. de Rochas in this connection necessitate
the magnetisation of the subject who in fact exteriorises his sensitive*
ness whilst asleep; but the casters of spells of old never put to sleep
those whom they bewitched. And some years ago, when Stanislas
de Gualta and the Abb£ Boulan bewitched each other—and both
1 See in this connection R. Schwaehle, The Book of Lack.
died of it—they did not put each other to sleep.1 In the same way
(if it is true) the village sorcerers did not put to sleep the cattle and
humans on whom they cast their spells ana who suffered from them.*
It has therefore seemed necessary to find another explanation,
an occult one, which is as follows:—There are, if not microbes of
passion(goodorevil)atanyrateelemental# (seeThirdPart)whocirculate
in the Invisible. It is to them that the caster of spells appeals with
the whole strength of his faith to induce them to carry to the enemy
the poison of illness and of death.
In order to guard against such a curse it is therefore necessary
to know a clairvoyant who will warn you of the danger, thanks to
which you will, with your own will-power, drive back the accursed
messenger who, unable to make use of his “ load of evil,” throws it
back on the sender (this is called the shock of the rebound).
At bottom there is in the theory of spells an idea similar to that
known to Catholic Faith as the “ Communion of Saints.” We know
that Christ “ took on Himself the sins of the world” when He died
on the cross to save Humanity. We know that various Saints prayed
God to put on them the ills of other human beings. An instance b
St. Lydwine.* We know that people bring to church a limb in wax
similar to their ailing limb and ask for it to be healed. We know that
Monks pray in the Choir in the hope that their prayers will atone for
sins. What is the meaning of all tnis if not a belief in the possibility
ofatransmission of evils ? Didnot Christhealthe possessed bysending
the spirits who troubled them into swine?
Side by side with criminal or hate spells, there are love spells.
These are of two kinds—those which stop love and those which
evoke it.
The former are called the “ tying of the knot ” (see below under
“ Charms.”)
We shall deal here with the second alone. We can find as many
formulae for love philtres as we want, either in the old books of spells,
or (in the shape of aphrodbiac pills) on the fourth page of the news
papers I According to Schwaeble, it b at bottom sufficient to rub
yourself with verbena. The same writer gives another formula, a
mixture consisting of 20 grammes of essence of clove, 10 grammes of
essence of geranium and 200 grammes of alcohol at 90 degrees. Wash
• This extraordinary adventure took place in January, 1893, and was modi talked about
atthetim ci. Boulan was tire first to die, at Lyons, and Quartosubsequently ol the shock of tbs
• See in the appendix the enquiry of the Petit Journal as to modern witches.
• See the admirable book which J. K. Huvsmans has written about her; without being
a true oooultiat, he waa very well instructed on these variouscurious questions of mysticism ana
324 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
325
your hands and arms thoroughly so as to open the pores and then
rub yourself with the mixture. I t acts, he assures us, on the genetic
sense.
W hat is the meaning of the expression, a charming woman ? It
is a woman who charms. Whence comes this definite charm of some
women ? From their attractions no doubt, but also from some indefin
able magical power. Some writers claim that it is because they are
able by their will (but without any knowledge of the theory) to influence
the good “ elcmentals.” Let man do the same, let him exert his
will. And by a kind of suggestion he will rouse love in her whom he
loves.
Although we are going to speak of spells again later, we have thought
it interesting to quote here this extract from an article on the subject
by Dr. D. Lcgud :—
The middle ages with their alternations of shadows and light were never
able to fathom magnetism. Antiquity had seen its results without having
tried to know their causes. The 18th century, with Mesmer’s tub, had not
yet disentangled the scientific principle from the miraculous which surrounded
it. The same facts which acted on the organism of our fathers are produced
to-day.
Not very long ago. Colonel Rochas, a Professor at the Polytechnic School,
had gathered round him a few people to whom he intended to demonstrate
in an almost tangible form the phenomenon of casting spells in the middle
ages. For this purpose he had Drought a wax doll, and in support of his
theory he thought ofone of the ladies in the audience, and said that the person
indicated would at the same moment feel his touch of the doll. In met he
touched several times the heart and the arms of the figure, and Mrs. X. felt
these touches in a manner proportionate to the will-power which the Professor
put into his action.
The experiment over, everybody got up, with the exception of Mrs. X.
who was sitting at some distance. One of the spectators out of curiosity
picked up the object which the experimenter had used, and turned it over
in all directions.
Mrs. X was then heard to say plaintively: " Have you not yet made me
suffer enough 1 ”
How is this singular phenomenon to be explained unless in the same
manner as the stigmatisation which reproduces the wounds of the martyrs
on the bodies of neurasthenics whose imagination was a prey to trouble caused
by religious asceticism ?
Scientists, physicians, physiologists have collected a great number of
instances in order to show the pathologic effects produced by violent emotions.
Let us go back to an example which has become histone. When persons
in convulsions took, on the tomb of the Deacon Paris, the position of Christ
on the Cross, it was often noticed that their hands and feet became red. The
palms of their hands were burning, and certain marks like Btigmata appeared
LOW MAGIC
326
on their bodies. Burdach, the well known physiologist, relates that one
day a red spot was seen on the body of a man who had dreamt he had received
a violent blow. In this case it is to-day recognised that the intensity of dreams
can go so far as to produce the appearance of digestive troubles.
Who has not read, in the Golden Legend, the Btory of the patient of
Capriena ? Does she not share, with St. Francis of Assisi, Madeleine de
Pazzi and so many others, the not very enviable honour of bearing on different
parts ofher body the stigmata ofthe Passion ? Now “ these stigmata, according
to Burdin, exude a colourless and burning liquid. It is certain, he adds,
that if the bodies of all these bearers of the stigmata had been carefully
examined, the same ulcerations and the same pustulas would have been found
in them too.” Some of them bore piously on their limbs the mysterious traces
of the wounds of Christ, their foreheads bled as if under the pressure of the
Crown of Thorns. The action of the thought, of the influence of the mind
on the body, or, as weshould say to-day, auto-suggestion thus became manifest
in a material manner.
Well, the followers of occultism ask themselves with some disquietude,
could not this volition of the soul act just as well at a distance on a given
person ? Were there none in the middle ages, who did not wish that their
enemy might suffer this or the other torment 1 Hence the spells which were
so frequent in the 13th, 15th and 16th centuries and even later, and which
might well bejncluded in the series of phenomena discussed above.
Conjuring Books
These were manuscript books for the use of magicians and sorcerers.
They were also called A.B.C.S o f the Devil. Only three have been
printed, and they became famous:—
The Grimoire of Pope Honorius.
The Grimorium Vervm, translated from the Hebrew by
Plaigniere.
The Great Grimoire, followed by the Clavicle o f Solomon.
B ut the following are also looked upon as Conjuring Books:—
The Enchiridion, the Red Dragon, the M agical Venus, the
Treasure o f the Old M an of the Pyram ids, the M agic Works
o f Agrippa, the Secrets of the Old Druid, the Black Hen, etc.,
and especially the Great and the Little Albert.
The last two names are given to the collection of magical formulae
left by Albert the Great, the famous doctor (in the mediaeval sense
of the word) who was bom in Swabia in 1198 and died in Cologne in
1280. Having joined the Order of Dominicans in 1222, he taught
the sciences and the philosophy of his day in various towns, and
particularly in Paris (1245 to 1248) with such success that in the end
ne had to speak in the open air, such was the size of his audiences,
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
in a square which has preserved his name (Magister Albertus, which
has been corrupted into Maubert).
In Rome, in 1255, Pope Alexander IV loaded him with honours,
but he soon returned to his beloved studies which he only gave up when
overcome by old age. He was the teacher of St. Thomas Aquinas,
and his works consist of not less than 20 stout folios. His erudition
was amazing. He made real discoveries in chemistry.
B ut he shared with his times errors which astound us to-day,
prodigious childishnesses. He believed in the most grotesque tenets,
and it is as a magician th a t he became historical. He composed
hundreds of fantastic receipts which, we repeat, are found in one of
his works which has become a classic of its kind, The admirable Secrets
o f the Great Albert, and The Secrets o f the Little Albert.
M agic Herbs
There are, in Low Magic, about fifteen herbs to which Albert the
Great and other sorcerers, ascribe magic virtues, brief details of which
we give below:—
The heliotrope which, picked in certain conditions, wrapped in a
laurel leaf with a wolfs tooth and carried on the person keeps from
slander.
The nettle which, held in the hand with some yarrow, keeps off the
fear of ghosts.
The teasel which, dipped into mandragora juice, brings puppies
to a bitch.
The celandine which, carried on the person together with a mole's
heart, makes invincible against enemies and lawsuits.
The periwinkle which becomes an aphrodisiac if eaten powdered
with earthworms in meat.
The nept which, put into the nose of animals, makes them drop
as if dead for a short time.
The hound's-tongue which, hung round the neck of a dog, gives
it a fatal giddiness.
The henbane which, mixed with the blood of a young hare and
carried on the person, collects round you all the hares of the neigh
bourhood.
The lily which, if picked under the sign of Leo, mixed with the
juice of laurel and placed under a dungheap, breeds worms which,
powdered and placed in a person’s clothes, prevent the latter sleeping.
The mistletoe which, hung up to a tree by the wing of a swallow,
collects all the cuckoos of the neighbourhood.
The centaury which, thrown into the hie on a starry night, makes
the stars appear dancing a kind of mad saraband.
LOW MAGIC 327
328
The sage which, allowed to rot under a dungheap, breeds worms
which, thrown into the fire, make a noise like thunder.
The verbena which likewise in rich soil breeds worms which, put
into a dove-cot, collect pigeons there.
The m int which, thrown raw with cypress juice into soup, makes
the latter very pleasant to the person eating it.
The snake-wood, the rose, etc., are also endowed with various mar
vellous properties.
Side Dy side with these magical herbs we also have magical animals
and stones; each one lends itself to quaint formulae and fantastic
claims which we shall not detail here, for the whole of this section
of Magic has to-day fallen into disuse and is without interest.
Let us, however, in passing mention the scries of so-called planetary
plants, which is as follows:—
Ofjodiliua (Saturn). Used against diseases of the kidneys and the legs, and
in exorcism.
Buttercup (the Sun).—Against stomach troubles, and to calm frantic and
melancholy persons.
Chrinostate (the Moon).—Against acidity and scrofula. Made into tea, it i'b
good for digestion.
Amoglosse(Mars).—Against headache. Stomachicjuice. Cures hemorrhoids.
Cinquefoil (Mercury).—Closes wounds, calms toothache.
Henbane (Jupiter).—Antidote for ulcers, for liver complaints. Makes cheerful
and charming.
Pistorion (Venus).—Hub is verbena which cleanses the breath and brings
love.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
M agic M irrors
They enabled, it was said, to see the present, the past and the
future. They are of great variety, and of great antiquity.
St. Augustine (in De Cixntate D ei, Ch. VII, 85) says th at they were
used by tne witches of Thessaly who wrote their oracles on them in
human blood.
Varron claims that they are of Persian origin, the Magi having
used them for a method of divination called Catoptromaney.
Spartianus says that Didius Julianus used them to know the result
of the battle which Tullius Crispinius fought with Septimus Severus,
his rival for the Throne.
The persons who, in Rome, read these mirrors were called Specularii.
In the East these instruments were called Stellar M irrors. Pica
della Mirandola had faith in them, provided they were made under
a favourable constellation, and that they should only be consulted
when one felt comfortably warm, for the cold harms the lucidity of
their oracle. Reinaud speaks of them in his Description o f the Blacas
LOW MAGIC 329
Cabinet. He adds that the operators perfume them, fast for seven
days before using them, and recite sacramental prayers at the moment
of consulting them. The Chinese and the Hindus made theirs of
metal, concave or convex.
Muratori tells us of a Bishop of Verona who was put to death because
under his pillow a magic mirror was found bearing on the reverse the
word fiore which means flower, and proves collaboration with the
devil, since, according to St. Cyprian, Satan sometimes appeared in
the shape of a flower. A mirror of this kind was also found in the
house oi Calas de Rienzi. Catherine de Medicis had one.
The shape of these mirrors was, as we have said, very varied. Some
bore the name of their inventor (Cagliostro, Swedenborg, etc.) More
recently they have been used to fix the eye of clairvoyants or mediums
so as to put them into a state of hypnosis.
Cahagnet, in his M agnetic M agic, quotes the principal mirrors as
follows:—
The Theurgic M irror—a bottle of clear water looked at by a child*
and in which the Archangel Gabriel replies by pictures to his questions-
The M irror o f the Sorcerers—any kind of mirror or pail of water-
The country sorcerer, standing near the consultant, recites a spell
and shows him the reflection of the picture wanted.
The M irror o f Cagliostro—the bottle of clear water is on a piece
of furniture, and before it a child, on whose head the operator places
one hand and tells him the questions to ask, to which replies are given
in allegorical pictures.
The M irror o f du Potet—a piece of cardboard having pasted on one
side a sheet of tin and on the other a piece of black cloth. The operator
magnetises it strongly and places it a foot away from the eye of the
consultant who, having fixed his eyes on it, soon sees in it the desired
object.
The Swedenborgian M irror—a paste of graphite mixed with olive
oil is poured on an ordinary mirror and allowed to dry for a few days.
The consultant, whose image must not be reflected (he stands at some
distance for this reason) looks into it, whilst the operator stares mag
netically at the back of his head, and vision takes place.
The M agnetic M irror—a round crystal globe filled with magnetised
water at which the consultant looks carefully until the desired vision
appears.
The Narcotic M irror—similar globe but a narcotic powder made of
belladonna, henbane, mandragora, hemp, poppy, etc., is dissolved
in the water.
The Galvanic M irror—it is made of two discs, one of copper and
330
concave, the other of zinc and convex, both magnetised nine times
in nine days. The centre of the concave is looked at.
Cabalistic Mirrors—there are seven, being seven globes each
representing one of the seven planets of Astrology, made of the
corresponding metal and consulted on the appropriate astrological
day. They are :—
The globe of the Sun, made of gold and consulted on Sundays as to superior
beings and the great persons of the earth.
The globe of Mercury, made of a glass globe filled with mercury and con
sulted on Wednesdays as to questions of money.
The globe of Jupiter, made of tin andconsulted onThursdaysas to the proba
bility of success and as to the devotion of domestics.
The globe of Mars, made of iron and consulted on Tuesdays as to quarrels,
lawsuits, enmities.
The globe of Venus, made of copper and consulted on Fridays as to questions
of love.
The globe of Saturn, made of lead and consulted on Saturdays as to secrets,
lost articles, etc.
The globe of the Moon, made of silver and consulted onMondaysas to dreams
and plans.
As regards Mirrors, the Third Part will give information as to
everything relating to “ crystal vision,” a phenomenon of clairvoyance
pure and simple, and there will be shown the psychic basis of these
apparently fantastic magic objects where it is no longer necessary
to evoke the spirits and where it is possible actually to obtain visions
of the future.
Divination by coffee grounds, as we have said, is nothing but a
substitute for divination by magic mirrors.
Mandragora
This curious plant has a root which somewhat resembles a human
face or a phallus.1 Some mystics saw in it the umbilical sign of our
terrestrial origin. Eliphas Ldvi himself thought th at man having
been made of the dust of the earth, must needs have first been made
in the shape of a root. By analogy he inferred th at the first men
belonged to the family of mandragoras, some of the latter having come
to life under the sun. I t is difficult for a naturalist to adm it this
hypothesis. However it may be, some alchemists believed in it.
Paracelsus claimed that it was possible to succeed in everything with
the aid of mandragora, and also by its means to give birth to a
homunculus (little living man).
1 We deal hero with Atropa mandragora, the apothecary’s kind, also called female mandra
gora, hand of glory or magician’s herb, with a foetid smell, and often a forked root.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Hence also artificial mandragora was made and was used as a
talisman.
LOW MAGIC 331
Necromancy
This was the a rt of raising the dead. The celebrated Christian,
in his History of Magic which the astrologer Ely Star used so much,
taught this art, of which much might be said if one takes into account
the phenomena of spiritualism or even of mediumship (see Third Part).
There is certainly some connection between modern experiments and
the old practices of witchcraft, for it is more than probable that more
than one sorcerer was a medium.
The celebrated Voisin, th at remarkable witch, soothsayer and
poisoner, burned alive in 1680, practised necromancy. And in the
alack Magic of the doctors Ja f and Caufeynon we find the account of
the evocation of the ghost of Turenne carried out by her in the Church
of Saint Denis at the request of Abb4 d’Auvergne, Prince and Cardinal
de Bouillon, the heir of the Marshal who believed th at the latter had
hidden a treasure.
The description of an evocation ceremony is found in the same
book, and in many others to which we refer the reader, begging him
however to beware of this kind of witchcraft which could only end
in turning his brain. I t will be better to confine himself to the experi
ments of mediumistic apparitions which he will find farther on.
Many have erroneously included in the same word both Goctia
or Black Magic and Necromancy. B ut the latter raises the dead,
and Goetia raises demons. According to the Count de Resie, this
raising of the spirits of ancestors was merely performed in the way
of family affection. The Canaanites practised it. Moses forbade it
to the Jews as being opposed to the worship of the true God.
I t will be remembered that the Witch of Endor raised Samuel
for Saul. Other necromancers are Orpheus, Phorontius, Cecrops,
Apollonius of Thyana, Jamblichus, Porphyrius. Shakespeare used
this magic art with powerful effect in his theatre (the three Witches
in Macbeth put into their cauldron all the ingredients mentioned in
the traditional formulae).
Pacts
These were agreements, treaties entered into with the Devil with
the view to obtaining special favours from him. They took the form
of direct and formal agreements, or invocations through the intermediary
of sorcerers, or acts which were to take effect through the power of
the Prince of Darkness.
332 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
The method of entering into these agreements is found mainly
in the G reat C lavicle o f So lo m o n , which contains the P a cta conventa
deem oniorum . First we learn the names of the infernal dignitaries—
Lucifer, the Emperor of Hell, Prince Beelzebub, the Grand Duke
Astaroth; the military chiefs Lucifuge, Satanachia, Flcurty, etc.,
the subordinates Baal, Agarcs, etc. After this the procedure, the
method of invocation, etc., are stated.
These invocations vary according to what is asked for, such as
increasing one’s property, finding a treasure, winning the loved woman,
etc.
intermediaries, pentacles generators.
In making them the following ar
The ink for the pacts was made
of river water, gall-nut, Roman
vitriol, alum, gum arabic, the
whole heated in a new vessel
over a fire of vines cut during
the full moon of March and ferns
cut at midnight on St. John’s
Eve.
P en ta cles
There are two kinds of pen
tacles, some universal (for invo
cations and spells), the others
personal.
Pentacles, says Pierre Piobb,
are not talismans. The latter
assist in the polarisation of fluids,
whereas pentacles contain the
polarised fluids. Talismans arc
required:—
1. Draw a sacred symbol and enclose it in a double circle.
2. Inscribe within this double circle a sacred name or an appropriate
verse from the sacred books.
3. Perfume it with the perfume of the planet the nature of which
corresponds to the purpose.
4. Sing Psalms, cast spells, make incantations, if necessary offer
sacrifices.
The pentacle is drawn on a Wednesday at the hour of Mercury
when the Moon is in a sign of air or earth and in the same degree as
the sun.
A pentacle must be engraved on metal corresponding to the planet
whence it comes, or else on virgin parchment or china.
333
LOW MAGIC
M agic Perfumes
We mention a few as curiosities:—
F riday's P erfum e:—Musk, ambergris, aloe wood, red roses, the
whole reduced to powder, mixed with the blood of doves and the brain
of sparrows, made into a paste, then into grains, and consecrated with
the following w ords:—“ Deus Abraham, Deus Isaac, Deus Jacob,
bless all the creatures of the kinds contained in these odorous grains,
so th at they may increase the power and the virtue of their scent,
that no enemy or phantom may abide in them. Per Dominum nostrum.
Amen.”
M onday's P erfum e:—The day of the Moon, frog’s head, bull’s
eyes, seed of white poppy, pure incense such as storax or benzoin with
a little camphor. The whole mixed with the blood of a turtledove,
made into a paste, then into grains. And with it the magical operations
of Monday are performed.
Quaint formulae certainly. The Church is opposed to these con
trivances. And yet do we not see in the pages of "Holy W rit, in the
story of Tobit, the angel leading him and commanding him, when he
meets his wife, not to fail to make a perfume with the liver of a fish
whom the angel haul cut open, so th a t through the occult pouter o f that
perfume evil spirits might be restrained from harming nim and be
kept away from the bridail couch ?
And after all what is the incense of religious rites but a survivad
of the magic of perfumes ?
Philters and Charms
Philters are mystic drinks producing certain sentim ents; those
relating to love are the most sought after. There were also some
for inspiring hate, courage, etc. Here is a specimen:—Dried peri
winkle powdered and mixed with powdered earthworm induces love.
A pinch dropped into food is sufficient to excite him who swadlows
it. As will be seen, philters and aphrodisiacs are not unrelated.
So-called sacred plants usually entered into the composition of
philters, such ais thyme, marjoram, fennel, wild mint, hyssop, lily.
Also some ashes like those of the dried heaurt of a dove, of a donkey’s
hoof, etc.
Lustral water was a powerful philter. I t used to be obtained as
follows:—In a fountain of white marble the magicians collected storm
water and a t the end of five years killed in this thirteen doves, a virgin
trout, a sheep, a bull, a black cat and a white dog. Then it was put
into crystal flagons, and subsequently used for aspersions accompanied
by incantations. The Holy W ater of to-day is simpler. B ut he who
uses it must not laugh at lustral water. Instead of lustral water a
E
’ :r may be made of rain water in which for thirteen days thirteen
of sacred plants and the powder of a dove’s heart are soaked.
The sap of the hazelnut tree, the water from chick peas and hellebore
seeds mixed, the water of garlic and pomegranates are also good
philters.
Charms are spells in the shape of words arranged in a certain way
which are used to obtain miraculous effects. But there are also charms
without words. Thus La Voisin claims to have received from a priest
consecrated oils which made lips loving, and she promised some to
Madame de Bauc£.
Enchantment was a kind of charm by means of song or music.
Some snake charmers charm by movements of the eye. Others charm
by playing the flute. The delightful legend of Orpheus will be remem
bered.
334 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Domestic, Culinary, Medical and other Prescriptions
Cloth is made non-inflammable by washing it in salted water after
having rubbed it with alum beaten up in the white of an egg.
To be able to handle red hot iron, rub your hands with red arsenic
and alum mixed in the juice of leek and laurel gum.
Scorpions and snakes are driven out of a house by burning the
lung of a donkey in it.
To prevent rats from coming into your house, burn the hoof of a
To catch birds, scatter grain which has been soaked in wine lees
and the juice of hemlock. Those which eat them will not be able to
fly away.
The seed of leek restores its strength to vinegar which has gone off.
Crush and mix together marigold blooms, marjoram, wheaten
flour, stale butter, goat’s grease and earthworms, and you will obtain
excellent bait for fishes.
To get rid of fleas, sprinkle the room with water in which zinc
sulphate has been dissolved.
For sunburn, rub yourself at night with an ointment made of oil
of sweet almonds, wax and camphor.
To prevent apples rotting, rub them with mint juice.
The size of eggs is increased by mixing diluted red chalk in the
hens* food.
Chewing sorrel leaves is a good aperient.
To cure a drunkard, make him drink wine in which an eel has been
drowned.
For sciatica use cow dung cooked under cinders in vine or cabbage
leaves.
H ot cow dung also cures the sting of bees, hornets, wasps, etc.
Gallienus cured tumours and callouses on the knee with a paste
made of goat dung diluted in barley flour and oxycrate.
For boils and carbuncles, sheep dung diluted m vinegar and made
into a poultice.
For burns, fowl dung diluted in oil of roses.
Raw com well chewed and put on a tumour brings it to a head.
Cooked in goose fat, earthworms cure earache. Drunk in wine
they dissolve calculus. Swallowed in honey and water they cure
jaundice.
The ash of elm, oak, maple, ivy, birch, is an astringent. Gallienus
also used it to stop nose bleeding.
Rotten wood, placed on a purulent ulcer, cleanses and closes it.
Cobweb put on a cut stops bleeding.
To relieve a fit of the gout, apply the skinned root of henbane.
The juice of the same plant, mixed with honey, eases liver troubles.
The root of verbena, made into a poultice, cures fistulas, ulcers,
hsemorrhoids.
The ash of frogs makes an excellent depilatory.
Goat’s horn, reduced to ash, strengthens the gums and stops
dysentery.
Boiled snails quickly reduce oedema.
Hare’s brain is a good emollient which facilitates the coming of
the first teeth.
Fine chimney soot mixed with good vinegar is a specific against
chilblains.
To avoid getting drunk, take before your meal a spoonful of olive
oil mixed, if possible, with two spoonfuls of betony water.
An infusion of parsley is good for women if their periods are irregular.
We stop here, and advise a physician rather than any of these
medical formulas, a good cook rather than the culinary ones. B ut
at the same time an interesting book might be written by studying,
commenting and dealing critically with the thousands of ancient
prescriptions, many of which must be left alone, but a great number
of which, particularly those which include simples and herbs, might
be tested in the light of modem experience and knowledge.
Satanism
In his preface to Satanism and Magic by Jules Bois, J . K. Huysmans
divides the “ Realm of the Fallen Angel ” into two camps, Palladists
and Luciferians. We leave High Freemasonry to deal with the
Palladists, and will briefly speak of the Luciferians who have an
Antipope, the head of a kind of parody of the Vatican. A t the time
LOW MAGIC 335
of Huysmans, this black Holy Father, installed in the infernal Rome
at Charleston, was a man of the name of Lemmi. His disciples follow
a kind of reverse Catholicism and worship “ the God of Evil,” whilst
the Palladists see in Satan the true Adonai, the Element of Goodness.
In both cases, it will be seen, there is faith in the Devil.1
A very old faith indeed. Luciferism is nothing but an off*shoot
ofManidueism. Its attractionlies in the fact that it includes apostate
S
riests, thieves of the Host, supporters of sacrilege, such as the Canon
locre created by the author of Ld-Bas.
Formerly, as we have seen, Satanism invaded W itchcraft (Sabbath,
raising of Evil Spirits, etc.) Various books, among them one by Jules
Bois, contain complete descriptions of scenes of black magic, the
Sabbath itself, diabolic confessions and pacts, ancient black masses.
B ut it is well known that the cult of Satan has not died out, and that
even in our days modernised black masses have been and are being
said. Some of them, called “ Offices of the vain Observance,” perpetu
ate the Albigense heresy. Others, in the 17th century, were called
“ sacrilegious masses of Guibourg,” and had the added horror of the
killing of a child on the wanton nakedness of a woman. Then there
is the extraordinary Mass according to Ezechiel and according to
Vintras described by Huysmans, who also speaks of one which he
claims to be used in the dark and distant district of Vaugirard. We
are assured that all these black follies are by no means fallen into
disuse yet.®
Other devilries were incubi and succubi, connections between
women and devils, devils and mystics. These queer connections
abounded in olden times, at least in imagination, and even in the
19th century we see a man like Caudenberg tell of his relations with the
Virgin (about 1854), and a whole series of demoniac connections arises
in brains which are overexcited by eroticism, and tales of vampirism.
We have no wish to go into these follies, and only mention them to
show the survival of Witchcraft, and the danger which lies in not
confining Occultism to the great and splendid data which are sufficient
to make it interesting and magnificent.
Sorcery and Curses
Here are some curses which it is possible to put on others or to
receive, together with the means of escaping them, if we are to believe
a little book by Professor Asmodeus:—
* See, in the Appendix, the enquiry of Means. Kadaud and Pelletier, into modern witches
and satonista.
' Here, as in the Sabbath, a kind of notie sadism induces practices which seem most bias*
phemous. And almost always the Black Maaa uses a naked woman aa altar on which the Host
w defiled.
336 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
337
LOW MAGIC
K nots.—“ Tying the knot.” This is used against lovers or newly
marriedcouples. Goto the place wherethe lovers orthe newly married
couple usually meet. As soon as you see them, quickly tie a knot
in a lace which you have in your hand. Watchtheir eyes, and as soon
as they look at each other, make a second knot. The knot is tied,
especially if the appropriate magical words have been uttered. The
couple is bewitched, and their love is accursed.
To turn this curse aside, you must turn your wedding ring three
limes round the finger, and wear on your breast the sacred guardian
stone of destinies.
Spider.—To turn aside the bad luck due to seeing a spider in the
morning or at noon, pick up some dust and throw it on to the spot
where the spider passed, saying “Ada.” “ Ada” is a well known
magic word.
The E vil Eye. Curse is another word for this. The chief curses
are the evil eye or jettatura, and the casting of spells. As to the
casting of spells, see under that heading. As to the evil eye, most
Italians firmlybelieve in it, andto turn it aside usea little horn ofcoral
and turn it point forward towards any one who “ casts the evil eye,”
muttering the word “ coma.”
Obsessions.—To cure them, says the Book o f Black Science, cook
a calf’s foot, make it into a paste with goose fat, cinnamon and pepper,
and rub it on your chest seven days in succession.
Vampirism
In Magic this is the act of one human being sucking up the vital
fluid of another human being. The Vampire acts for himself or for
a third party. As will be seen, it is to some extent the opposite of
magnetism.
Fluid vampirism, says Pierre Piobb, takes many forms. As soon
as one person dominates another, he consciously or not withdraws
vital fluid from him. Some people use their friends for the purpose
of increasing their own nervous energy. This happens in the case
of “ arrivists,” people without heart who drop their connections as
soon as they have ceased to be useful.
“ Faith ” is a phenomenon of magic vampirism in this sense that
the operator uses vampirism to form a strong single-minded eggregore
(group consciousness). This is for instance what Christ did with
ms apostles.
The “ evil eye ” is also a kind of vampirism; as we have seen
it is turned aside by a movement of the hand in shape of a horn.
Any one fearing some evil from a chance meeting may disperse
the dangerous fluid of the person met by touching iron, this metal
338
being a good conductor which carries the fluid down to the earth,
provided it touches the ground.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
I ll
Good Luck and Bad Luck
We shall not heretakethe part ofeither “ strong minds ” or “ weak
minds.” We shall confine ourselves to saying that very many “ strong
minds ” have secret dreads and sometimes unconfessed superstitions,
andthatamongthe“ weakminds ”aretobefoundnumbersofscientists,
men of genius and military and other celebrities.
We find in this 20th century of ours some airman whotakes a black
cat up with him as his mascot, a boxer making the sign of the cross
before enteringthe ring, an actress whonevergoes on the stage without
having made a cross of two matches, or a courtesan burning a candle
to obtain success in love.
Let us all search into the very bottom of our hearts and ask our
selves if we have not at some time or other, in certain circumstances,
sought some thing which brings luck or avoided some other which
may bring ill luck. We all more or less believe in good luck and in
bad luck of which we will now say a few words.
Lucky and Unlucky Presents
For the sake of information only let us draw up first tables of those
articles which, according to Tradition, carry good or bad luck, offering
our apologies for any repetition there may be of information given
previously under other headings.
T a b l e o f P r e s e n t s g iv e n
Bringing good luck
1. Je w e l s
Rings of gold or silver without
stones or pearls, or with a black
pearl, ruby, sapphire, diamond,
cameo.
Gold or silver chain bracelet.
Jewelled buttons.
Ear-rings in rings, diamonds, pearls,
emeralds.
Brooch (if a penny with a hole in
it is given in exchange).
Watch (with inscription engraved).
Necklace with odd number of pearls.
b y a Ma n t o a W o m a n
Bringing bad luck
1. J e w e l s
Rings of glass or cut stone.
Ring of goldorsilver with fine pearls
or turquoise, amethyst, aqua
marine, opal, coral, jet.
Locket (risk of quarrel or break).
Pin (tie, hair or hat) unless it is
set with a lucky stone and has
been exchanged for a penny
with a hole in it.
339
LOW MAGIC
Bringing good luck
2. Va r io u s Ar t ic l e s
A magnet.
An album.
A jewel case.
A shawl.
A crystal cup.
An engraved goldor silverthimhfe
A tooth set as a jewel.
A stole (fur or silk).
A pair of gloves.
A book.
A lamp.
An engraved medal.
A Chinese vase.
Vases.
A spinning wheel with its spindle
full.
A picture.
A violin.
3. Fl o w e r s
Bose (white or red).
White and red carnation.
Lily, convolvulus, clematis,
mistletoe.
Daisy, lilac, clover, wall-flower.
Hawthorn, everlasting flower,
cornflower.
Poppy, forget-me-not.
Four-leavea clover.
4. Fr u it s
Grapes (white or black).
Pomegranates, oranges.
A divided almond of which he keeps
the other half.
5. Sc e n t s
Carnation, rose, violet.
Wallflower, amber, fern.
Cut hay, and generallyall sweet
scents.
Bringing bad luck
2. Va r io u s Ar t ic l e s
A wooden box.
A handkerchief.
A portrait.
A nail file.
A belt.
A scarf.
A pair of shoes.
An umbrella.
A looking-glass.
Curtains.
A nail.
A trunk.
A hair.
Cotton.
Tongs.
A note book, a pencil.
An ink pot, a pen.
A knife.
3. Fl o w e r s
Briar, bramble, cypress, holly.
Hemlock, nettle,tuberose, cyolamei
Poppy, jonquil, autumn colchicum.
Digitalis, moss, grass.
And generally all green and al
poisonous plantB.
4. Fr u it s
Chestnuts.
Wild plum.
Dried figs.
Pears.
6. Sc e n t s
Trefle incarnat, bergamot.
Musk, patchouli, ylang-ylang.
And generally all strong perfumes.
340 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
T a b l e o f P r e s e n t s g iv e n
Bringing good luck
1. Je w e l s
A plain engraved ring of gold or silver
or set with a coloured stone.
A watch with inscriptionengraved.
A chain (first thrown into the
water).
A pearl tie pin.
2. Va r io u s Ar t ic l e s
A walkingstick (mahogany, oak or
malacca).
Gloves.
Tobacco.
A cup.
A writing table.
A picture.
3. Fl o w e r s
Red or white rose.
Camellia and gardenia.
Violet and cornflower.
And specially pansy.
4. Fr u it s
Apples, plums, peaches.
Mandarines ana grapes.
5. Sc e n t s
Lavender (sweetness).
Iris (tender promise).
b y a W o m a n t o a M a n
Bringing bad luck
1. Je w e l s
A card-case.
A sovereign-case.
A locket.
Cuff links.
Studs.
A cigar-case.
A cigarette-case.
2. Va r io u s Ar t ic l e s
A purse.
A portrait.
A tie or a hat.
A key, a pin or a nail.
An inkpot or a strong box.
Linen (a handkerchief, etc.)
3. Fl o w e r s
Peony, geranium.
Glycinia, acacia.
Periwinkle, columbine.
And all yellowflowers.
4. Fr u it s ’
Medlar.
Nut.
5. Sc e n t s
Generally
All strong scents.
Lucky and Unlucky Days
Generally considered lucky are:—
Monday, the day of the Moon: calm and sweetness.
Wednesday, the day of Mercury: success.
Thursday, the day of Jupiter: courage and will-power.
Sunday, the day of the Lord: joy and repose.
On the other hand considered unlucky are:—
Tuesday, the day of Mars: struggles, quarrels, failure.
Friday, thedayofVenus: passion(inRomethe Senatedidnotsit onFriday)
Saturday, the day of Saturn: danger, death.
A Hindu belief, dating back to Sanscrit times, credited the hours
also with good or bad influence. The unfavourable hour (Ir&ghon
K&lam, commonly called Rakalon) is balanced by the hour of good
omen (Khonlighei K&lam). The following table has been compiled
for the hours of each day of the week, the hours being numbered from
one to twenty-four forthe sake of convenience.
LOW MAGIC 341
D a y s Lu c k y H o u b s Un l u c k y H o u b s
Sunday
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
From 15 to 16.30 o’clock.
From 13.30 to 15 o’clock
From 12 to 13.30 o’clock
From 10to 12 o’clock
From 9 to 10.30 o’clock
From 7.30to 9 o’clock
From 6 to 7.30 o’clock
From 16.30to 18 o’clock.
From 7.30to 9 o’clock.
From 15 to 16.30 o’clock
From 12 to 13.30o’clock
From 13.30to 16 o’clock
From 10.30to 12 o'clock
From9 to 10.30o'clock
Cledomancy
Cledomancy was the name of the science of words bringing good
or bad luck, fatidic or conjuring words.
Here is a table of them, but it is unnecessary to say that we only
give it by way of information, to show how far some people went in
their faith in the magic power of the word.
F a t id io Wo b d s
Abbe. Steel. Needle. Atheist.
Cabala. Sorrow. Chaos. Heaven.
Devil. Bury. By the Blue Blood. By myMother.
Credo. Alas! HornsoftheDevil. By Satan!
Werewolf.
Miracle! Motus. Vlan!
Good God!
Phantom.
By God! Death.
Co n j u r in g Wo b d s
Ghost.
Ada.1 Per ada.2 Ada rama. I ada.
Soloma. Perdidi. Duleo. Felix.
Deo. Gratias. Ignoto.
Exegi.
Bene.
Ada lux. Lux. Festina.
Simpre. Finis. Hie. Ada.
Ada.
Corpus.
Ada. Anima. Fortunate.
1 The mere uttering of the magic word " ada ” preserves from badluck. Good luckis sure
if yon say it every morning and every evening, turning towards the North and the South.
■The combination of the two Magic words “ ada et Bacramente ” has speoial virtues,
ail of good omen.
342 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Wo r d s Br in g in g Go o d Lo c k
Well.
Io.
Perfect.
Eol.
Sun.
Luck.
Wo r d s Br in g in g Ba d Lu o s
Hell.
Pitch.
M
isfortune.
C
urse.
Sticky.
Badluck.1
Damned.
Illluck.
M
isery.
Etymological Analogies
Whereas the word chance comes from an expression in the game
of dice, the word chiance (the act of falling) denotes the number of pips
shown by the fallen dice. Chance became veine (good luck) at the
time of tnc rush of the goldscekers to California, the vein being strictly
speaking different in its composition from the rock of which it formed
part. Then, as thefUon is a kind of thread of precious metal running
throughthe rock, likeavein inthehumanbody,but whichit sometimes
takes manylong daysto find, this wordalsobecame a popularsynonym
for luck. From veine by analogy came the word divdne, its opposite.
If the d&oeine (bad luck ^persists, it becomesguigne orguignon, in slang
the sticker or pitch. The mere saying of the last two words brings
badluck.
And yet good and bad luck are the result not so much of chance
as of qualities and defects. Good luck is generally worked up to by
will-power, prudence, foresight (sometimes instinctive, unconscious),
bad luck results from a seriesof carelessness,lackof energy,unsustained
effort. It will be well, therefore, to count first of all on ourselves so
that good luck may subsequently help us and bad luck leave us.
Nonetheless good luck and t>ad luck do exist. But it has been
noticed that good luck not brought about or sustained by effort does
not last, and that sudden fortunes are usually unstable.
One evening when Taglioni had had a very great success on the
stage, a young dancer came upand said to her:
“ Ah, you have good luck.”
“ True,” said the star, “ but I cultivate it every day.”
“You have perhaps a talisman,” said the girl, who did not under
stand.
“ Come and sec me to-morrow at home, and I will show it to you.”
The dancer went- to see Taglioni and was present at a long series
of exercises, at the end of which the famous artist sank exhausted
into an armchair and said:
» Use as synonyms “ tho thing ” or “ the cherry,” and if by ohance you say the fatal word,
quickly touch wood to avert tho evil fato
313
“ You sec my talisman, it is called work."
An apt lesson. But it does not alter the fact that good and bad
luck do racist.
Fetishes
The belief in fetishes involves the belief in obscure powers which
dwell hidden in certain objects, which generally by their shape evoke
the idea of incantation. Such for instance are the coral horns so
highly valued in Italy, because they recall those of the devil, and
that wearing them will prevent Satan, flattered by this imitation,
to cause us worries. So also it is certain that the superstition which
credits some animals with the power of bringing good or bad luck,
and which is accounted for by some striking detail (the owl, son of
the Night, with its silent flight, for instance, the bat dwelling in ruins,
the swallow messenger of spring, etc.), is the result ofmany coincidences
carefully collected.
But it must also be noted—and this is a matter of psychology—
that the fetish often has a real power, due to the esteem m which it
is held and the fact that it puts you into a state o f self-confidence thanks
to which success is more likely. It was due to the knowledge of this
truth that Mahommed obtained miracles of bravery from his troops
in his battles by assuring them that thousands of angels fought by
their side; sustained by this illusion they fought with redoubled
ardourandoftenwerevictorious.
In short the fetish is an assurance against weakness. What, then,
matters the origin of its power, if it brings triumph?
On the other hand one observation has been made at all times,
it is that Luck comes to a manat least once in his life, sometimes twice
and thrice. Woe to him then who does not see it or does not know
how to grasp it.
But the belief in Good Luck is not without its danger; it entails
the belief in Bad Luck, in which no one ought ever to believe, for it
stops all initiative through fear of failure. Luck does not favour
hesitation. Audaces fortuna ju v a t! Good luck goes to the daring.
Daring is the source of almost all success, and only the timid will
believe in his bad luck.
Further Notes on Good Luck
To say of some one, “ He has had luck” means that Good Luck
visited him at a specified moment. To say, “ He is lucky ” means
that it is with him constantly.
Now what is Good Luck if not a chain of fortunate events, each*
one of which has its cause ? Is the chance which thus connects them
the result of an occult will ? Is it the mere unforeseen meeting of the
LOW MAGIC
elements which constitute the former? In any case it has a cause
like every phenomenon, but this cause is more or less easy to discover.
And it is because there is one or more causes that a directing will may
and can succeed in invoking a power which is greater. This is why
Good Fortune nearly always responds to the persistent appeal of
sustained effort.
We must assist luck. It is not by remaining inactive, by despising
letters, efforts, connections, etc., that we succeed in any matter, of
whatsoever kind it may be. Nor is it by remaining ignorant of our
selves, our abilities, tendencies, characteristics, etc. In order to be
lucky, begin by thoroughly knowing yourself, by discovering your
instincts, your tastes, your qualities, and also your defects. Then
give to your “ personal chances ” the frame, the surroundings which
suit them, the food necessary to their development. Theoretically,
observes R. Schwaeble,1 a man who knows himself thoroughly, by
means of the occult sciences, would be able to use all his qualities
and restrain all his defects, and would succeed in everything. And
it is the fact.
Luck is often only the ability to grasp the opportunities offered
by chance. But this ability comes of an aptitude which itself comes
from qualities of observation, patience, daring. The example of great
men who have been called lucky proves that if Chance did call upon
them, they in fact knew how to recognise it and turn it to account.
No doubt Napoleon would not have had the opportunity of proving
his exceptional qualities oforganiserand military chiefin less troublous
times, but it was through his genius that he made use of this coinci
dence. No doubtJenner, whena student, was lucky to hear a feverish
peasant, suspected of smallpox, say that she could not possibly have
it, as “ she had already had the Cow's disease,” this expression giving
rise to the idea of vaccine; but had this chance not been offered to
other doctors, who had neglected to make use of it ?
Papus, in a chapter of his remarkable Book o f Luck called “ The
Woman of the World,” but which may be applied to everyone, men
and women, draws a very apt comparison between luck, or rather
bad luck, and slander.
Here, he says, we have a woman of the world, intelligent, beautiful
and wealthy, whose good fortune seems to be lasting. Hut, one day,
suddenly the golden dream flies away, bad luck settles down at her
hearth, troubles, catastrophessucceedeachother. Whois mysteriously
responsible for this upheaval? The woman herself, who spent her
time at home speaking and allowing to be spoken evil of others.
>The Book of Lack.
344 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Thus Evil sowed its seeds, dug its roots, grew its stem—and its
fruits.
People smiled at these slanders in the drawing room of the lady ;
she was thought smart; unkind remarks about one or the other,
sometimes her best friends, were amusing. But the friends and others
ended by knowing that evil was being spoken of them. Squabbles
arose, relations were broken off; and this was the beginning of the
ills which soon poured down upon the House of Slander. Friends,
relatives, no longer gave good advice, good “ tipsters ” no longer tried
to be useful to the lovely chatterbox or to her husband, no longer gave
warning of this or that risk, being in their turn glad to harm those
who harmed others. Bad investments followed, good business dis
appeared, assistance of all kinds was lacking. And as everything
stands together, in Society as in the Universe, the isolated House in
the end collapsed.
Moral:—Never speak evil of others. Never allow it to be spoken
in front of you. Protect absent friends. Contradict evil reports.
And it will be said of you that you are good, faithful and sure. And
you will be loved. Being loved, you will be assisted in those thousand
different ways which favour, or rather which create, good luck.I
V
LOW MAGIC 345
IV
The Language o f Flowers
Everybody loves flowers. The rich man has expensive ones in his
beds ana his hothouses; the poor man, the working girl, the little
sempstress have modest ones which smile in their window boxes.
Poets have sung the charm of flowers which are the symbol of a life
all too short but sometimes so perfumed by joy, tenderness or art.
None is insensible to the beauty of their petals, even those who in
other matters are cold or dry at heart.
Whence comes this fascination ? Perhaps it is because there are
no ugly flowers. Amongst animals there are toads, spiders, black-
beetles, repulsive beasts. But does any flower cause dislike ? Each
one is sympathetic by its beauty, or its scent, or its daintiness.
And then the flower is sun and cheerfulness. Flowers perfume
the days of spring, embellish summer, make autumn bearable, some
times even defy winter. They bring eternal charm to Nature and
into the Home.
“ The flower,” writes Chateaubriand divinely, “ is the daughter
of Morning, the charm of spring, the source of perfume, the fascination
of the virgin, the love of the poet. It fades quickly like man, but it
346 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
gently returns its leaves to earth. The essence of its perfumes is
preserved—they are thoughts which survive it. In days of old it
crowned the cup at the banquet and the white hair of the wise man.
The early Christians used it to cover their martyrs and the altar in
the catacombs. To-day and in memory of those olden times we place
it in our temples. We attribute our affections to its colours, hope
to its leaves, innocence to its whiteness, chastity to its delicate tints.’’
Flowers are loved. They are made into ndsegays for pretty women,
the beloved betrothed, the gentle wife. They decorate our furniture,
ourbalconies, our altars. Theirpetals are slipped into our love letters,
they aredriedin ourbooks. Atfestivalstheyareofferedto ourparents,
our friends, our chiefs. They are brought to weddings. They are
placedonthetomb. Theyarebroughtintosacredandprofanematters.
They are seen at the ball and in Church.
There are flowers everywhere—in the valley, in the woods and the
fields, at the water’s edge, on the slope of mountains. There is no
plain which has not its own kind, and the beautiful blue thistle blooms
even in the driest of sand dunes.
Flowers accompany us in our happiness and in our sorrow. They
comfort the patient by brightening his dull room. With their sweet
ness they intoxicate the boudoir of the loved woman and the den of
the bachelor. They are the friends of all our days. They speak.
Ycs, theyhavebeengivenalanguage. Legendcreditsthisstratagem
of lovers communicating by the voice of flowers to the adventure of
a young Arab who loved a Pasha’s daughter. It was Axiania who
invented this means of chattering with Mohammed without saying
anything simply through the flowers which she tended. Through
her was born the Selam or language of flowers.
The following selams or speaking nosegays are quoted by some
old writers:—
Thuya + Clover + periwinkle + pink carnation ■
—My heart will
not alter.—May I hope ?—My friendship will last for life.—My faith
fulness is equal to all tests.
Another:—Thyme + rosemaiy + elder + white jasmine + con
volvulus + mignonette + everlasting flower = The sight of you
thrills me. Your presence scatters my trouble. You comfort me in
every sorrow. You areamiableandcharmme. Yourqualities surpass
your charms. Always yours. My friendship is without end.
Yetanother:—Forget-me-not, pansies, whitecarnationand veronica
together say:—Do not forget me, for I think of you; my love is great
and pure and I give you my heart.
And yet another:—Absinthe with hydrangea, balsam and helenia
—The pain which your indifference and your disdain cause me is the
reason for my tears.
A well arranged nosegay takes the place of a letter, lacks its perils,
and for the timid, its disadvantages. A nosegay is never indiscreet,
compromising or disrespectful, whilst at the same time occasionally
it is not without daring.
LOW MAGIC 347
In the following table will be found the thoughts suggested by
flowers or the words whose place they take. They are not always
the same with all writers. Some legendary and easily explained
meanings are found everywhere. Thus for instance the honeysuckle
and the ivy are signs of attachment; the stinging thistle a sign of
revenge; the everlasting flower a sign of faithfulness, etc. It is with
this aim in view that we have modified various meanings so as to bring
them more into accord with the symbol of the plant. Occasionally
we have preserved two or three well known meanings.
But in all these cases we should strongly advise lovers who wish
to avail themselves of these mute dialogues, each to buy this book
and to cross out in pencil every double or triple meaning so as to leave
only one clear one for each flower. Neglect of this precaution might
cause misunderstandings and even calamities!
The following arethe traditional meanings given to a certainnumber
of flowers:—
A
Absinthe—Heartache, absence, separation.
Apricot (flower of)—Timid love.
Acacia—Platonic love. Also, yon are all grace and elegance.
Acanthus—Love of art. Also, nothing will be able to separate ns.
AchiUeia—Disputes, quarrels.
Aconite—Tout disdain will kill me.
Amaranth—Constancy (its name means, which does not fade).
Amaryllis—Pride, vanity. You are too fond of shining.
Anemone—Break. Go away I (reminder of the flighty nymph Anemone).
Angelica—Inspiration. I am in ecstasy (Angel).
Anstolochus—
You are a tyrant! (Powerful juice and large leaves).
Asphodel—I regret the past.
Aster—Daintiness. Also, have you really told me the truth ?
Azalea—Your passion is fragile and ephemeral. Barren regrets. (Fatal gift).
B
Balsam—You have offended me. You are cold.
Basil—J hate you. Also, I am poor (Basil was an emblem of poverty).
Begonia—Beware! I am fanciful.
Belladonna—I bring bad luck (fatal gift).
Btiitercup—Mockery, don’t laugh at me. Also spite.
348
Blackthorn—How many obstacles there are to our love!
Box (always green)—I never change. Stoicism in adversity.
Briar—I love solitude.
Bilberry—Confession of deceit.
Bugloss—Lies. You are falseness personified.
Bramble—Envy. Jealousy. Injustice.
Barberry—You are a bad lot.
Burdock—You bore me.
Bumel—You are my only love.
Bindweed—Passing friendship without results.
C
Camedia—Constancy. I shall love you always.
Camomile—I am always devoted to you.
Campanula (Mirror of Venus)—You are charming but somewhat proud.
Centaury—Our love is perfect happiness.
Colchicum—Our pleasant time is over. Let us separate (this is an autumn
flower).
Columbine—I am madly in love with you (its bell shaped flower resembles
a fool’s 8tafi).
Convolvulus—You are a coquette. Also, humble perseverance.
Cornflower—Daintiness. Innocent charm. Heavenly heart.
Cinquefoil—Walk by moonlight. Also, I love my family.
Cedar (red)—My parents are dissatisfied.
Carnation (white)—You inspire me with pure sentiments.
Carnation (red)—You inspire me with worldly sentiments.
Carnation (pink)—I answer you favourably.
Carnation (purple)—You inspire me with antipathy.
Carnation (double)—I must think.
Carnation (Sweet William)—You are perfect.
Clover—Doubt, uncertainty. May I hope ?
Clover (yellow)—I should like to, at once.
Clover (red)—You do please me!
Clover (purple)—I am staying at home.
Cyclamen—Good-bye.
Cypress (the tree of the grave)—Our love is dead. Regrets and tears.
D
Daffodil—You are deceiving me.
Dahlia—Barren abundance (it has no scent). Many words but no soul.
Digitalis (flowers like glove fingers, a narcotic)—Beauty but too careless, I
am afraid of you.
Dipsaeus (a thistle the flowers of which keep the dew) I thirst after you.
Dogrose—Poetry. Spring. Beginning of love. You have enchanted me.
Will you love met
Dandelion—
Dull jealousy.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
349
LOW MAGI C
E
Easter Daisy—Let us enjoy our youth.
Elderjlower—Kindness.
Eucalyptus—Love of travelling.
F
Fennel (aromatic)—What a strong perfume of love!
Fern—Confidence and sincerity. Have faith in me.
Flax—Simplicity, gratitude.
Forget-me-not—Forget me not.
Foxtail—You are spiteful.
Figwood—I shall justify myself.
Ftr (twig of)—I am afraid of suffering.
Fuchsia—You are full of attentions, but you are wasting your time.
Fumiter (bitter taste)—You are unkind!
G
Gardenia—I love you in secret.
Gorse—My thoughts for you (or your thoughts for me) are like golden butter
flies.
Geranium (white)—you are frank.
Geranium (pink)—You are childish.
Geranium(red)—You are an idiot. (Together—I respect but don’t love you).
Glycinia—It is only friendship, but mutual.
Ghdiola (swordshaped leaves)—You pierce my heart.
Guelder rose—Slander. Or, I love you less.
Golden rod—Friendly scolding.
H
Hawthorn—Sweet hope. Timid request. You are the queen, the only one.
Hdenia—Tears. You are hurting me.
Hdiantus—Do not trust to appearances.
Hdiotrope—Intoxication of love. I am enchanted.
Hemerocattus (blue)—Perseverance.
Hemerocallus(yellow)—Unfaithfulness.
Henbane—I do not trust you.
Hollyhock—Beauty.
Hellebore (was thought to cure madness)—You are too smart.
Hemlock—Perfidy. Poison. Beware of treachery. And, we must die !
(In olden times those condemned to death were “ allowed to commit
suicide ” by drinking the poison which can be extracted from this).
Honeysuckle—Bond of love. We belong to each other.
Holly—Take care!
Hyacinth (white)—Benevolence. Be good!
Hyacinth (blue)—I have my suspicions.
Hyssop—I am tired of you.
Hydrangea (a beautiful flower without scent)—You are beautiful, but cold.
360 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
I
Immortelle—Always row s! (it does not fade).
Ivy—Eternal friendship (or lore). I die where I cling.
J
Jasmin (white)—Our lore will be so sweet!
Jasmin (yellow)—Our lore will be passionate.
Jasmin (red)—Our lore will be intoxication, folly.
Jonquil—
Violent sympathy. Desire, I die of lore.
Julian—You hare made a mistake.
L
Laurel (glory)—I shall conquer yon.
Laurel rose—It is a mere flirtation.
Lavender—Fervent bat silent lore.
LSac (white)—First dream of lore.
Lilac (manre)—Do yon still lore me ?
Lily (white)—Purity.
Lily (tiger)—Pride and wealth.
Lily of the valley—Renewed happiness. Let us make it up.
Laburnum—You hare broken my heart.
Larkspur—Read in my heart.
Limetree—It is conjugal lore that I want.
Lettuce (plagiarism of the cornflower)—I am disappointed.
Lobelia—Kind thoughts.
Lupin—Need of rest.
Lychnis—Irresistible sympathy.
M
Mandragora—Alas 1 I am too poor.
Marguerite—Innocence. Do you lore me ?
Marguerite (China aster)—I shall fight against Fate.
Marjoram—I shall comfort you. Abo, free love.
Mallow—Gentle and pure affection.
Marshmallow—You are gentle. Be kind.
Medlar—Be more daring.
Mint—Violent love.
Mimosa—Great daintiness.
Moneywort—I am disinterested.
Moss—Friendship, nothing more.
Myrtle—Love returned, I also love yon.
Mignonette—Hidden love. Also, I am modest.
Mistletoe—I swmount everything. I shall conquer.
Marigold—Disquiet. What is the matter with you f (Bad omen).
LOW MAGI C
N
Narcissus—Egotism. Conceit.
Nasturtium—Flame of love. Ton light it in my heart.
Nenuphar—Coldness. Ton are made of ice.
Nicotine,—The obstacle is overcome.
Nigetio—Bonds of love.
Nettie—Cruelty. Ton break my heart.
0
Olive branch—Reconciliation. The palm of peace.
Orangeflower—Virginity. I shall not sin.
Orchid—Magnificence.
P
Poppy (small, sign of sleep)—Rest. I am very qniet.
Poppy (white)—My heart is asleep.
Poppy (black)—I have forgotten you.
Pansy—Think of me as I think of you.
Periwinkle—Sweet memories.
Pimpernel—Own that you are beaten.
Petunia—I am furiouB. Or, why this anger 1
Pricktoood—Your image is engraved on my heart.
Phlox (white)—Proposal of love.
Phlox (blue)—Illusion in love.
PMox (purple)—Sweet dreams.
Peony—I am ashamed of what I have done (I blush for it).
Planetre&—
They are lies.
Polygala—They are slandering you (or me).
Potato (flower)—I thank you.
Primula—We are young. Let us love each other!
Plum (flowers)—I remind you of your promises.
Privet—I am on the defensive. Or, you are very young.
R
Rosemary—Exclusive love.
Rhubarb—
-Don’t lose heart.
Reed—I like music (the flute of Pan).
Ragwort—I am humble but proud.
Rose(generally)—How beautiful you are to me. How 1 love you.
Rose (red)—Desire.
Rose (white)—You are innocent and so charming.
Rose(moss)—We shall love each other much in the country.
Rose (Alpine)—I want to work to win you.
Rose (tea)—Our love will be fruitful.
Rose(wild)—I shall follow you everywhere.
Rosefull blown—Early marriage.
352
Hue (wild)—I like my independence.
Rye—Alas, I am poor.
Rosemellow—Beauty.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
S
Strawberry—You are delicious. I want you. Also, you are good.
Snowdrop—Let us hope for better days.
Saffron—I call you back to moderation.
Sagittarius—Break (these definite floral meanings must only be used with
very great care).
Sainfoin (oscillating flowers)—I hesitate. And, you misunderstand me.
Sarsaparilla—I offer you atonement.
Soapwort—Sensual love.
Sardonyx—I laugh at you.
Sage—I respect you deeply.
Saxifrage—I am in despair.
Scabious (the flower of widows)—You forsake me. Or, I forsake you.
Solomon’s Seal—The secret will be duly kept.
Scolopender—Slander, libel.
Sensitive plant—I am very sensitive. Be careful. Don’t hurt me.
Syringa—You intoxicate me.
Sunflower—False virtue. False wealth. Also, my eyes see only you.
Spirea—My will is tenacious.
Stramony—Your charms deceive.
Sycamore (leaves)—I am going away for a time.
Sylvia—Open your heart.
T
Tobacco(flower)—I want to forget.
Tamarind—I am careful. Or, he careful.
Tamaris—Count on my protection.
Thlaspi—I shall comfort you.
Thyme (wild)—You have been thoughtless. You are too careless.
Thyme—On seeing you I am thrilled.
Tuberose—I think of death.
Tulip—You ate wonderful!
Tulip (double)—You will succeed. We shall succeed.V
V
Valerian—Dissimulation (fatal gift).
Veronica—Our thoughts are in accord.
Ferfceno—Platonic love.
Vesperflower—These are our last lovely days (Vesper, evening).
Vine (leaves)—You intoxicate me.
Vine (wild)—Poetry, imagination.
Violet—Modesty, simplicity, chastity.
363
Violet (Parma)—Let me love you.
Violet (double)—I return your love (or your friendship).
Y
Yew—Sorrow, affliction (to give a branch of it).
Yucca—Until death.
LOW MAGIC
Zinnia—Take care.
Z
V
The Symbolism and the M agic o f Stones
For the Alchemist everything lives. For the Occultist everything
can become symbolical. Do minerals react on the body? In any
case we have to-day a metallotherapy, just as we have an electrotherapy,
a magnetotherapy and a psychotherapy. Stones live. The pearl
loses its water, and is then said to die. In assuming death we also
assume life. Besides some scientists definitely claim th a t there are
metallic ferments.
However this may be, in olden times men believed in the virtue of
stones, both medical and magic. They found relations between the
stones and the stars. They invented a symbolism of stones.
For convenience of reference we give tables showing what these
beliefs were.
T a b l e s h o w in g t h e Sy m b o l is m a n d Vir t u e s o f St o n e s
(From the Ratnapariksa of Buddhabhatta)
(6th Century B.C.)
Theirnames.
The Diamond.
Theirsymbolism.
Reconciliation and love.
Theirvirtues.
Makes faithful in under*
The Garnet.
The Amethyst.
The Jasper.
The Sapphire.
The Emerald.
Loyalty and frankness.
Happiness, wealth.
Courage and wisdom.
Truth and clear con
science.
Hope and faithful love.
Gives sincerity of heart.
Gives courage, and keeps
from drunkenness.
Gives constancy and
married happiness.
Gives repentance for faults
committed.
Gives knowledge of the
future.
X
354 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Their names.
The Agate.
The Ruby.
Their symbolism.
Prosperity, longlife.
Beauty, daintiness.
Their virtues.
Gives health.
Preserves from false friend
ships.
Disperses evil thoughts and
The Cornelian. Joy, peace.
The Opal.
The Topaz.
The Turquoise.
The Olivine.
The Peridot.
The Aquamarine.
Courage and hope.
Innocent pleasures.
Thunderbolt.
Youth and Health.
Prayer, tender love.
Eager love.
sorrow.
Increases faithfulness.
Stays evil dreams.
Ensures success in love.
Simplicity and modesty.
Encourages marriage.
Ensures constant happi
ness.
T a b l e o f t h e P r o p e r t ie s o f St o n e s (according to Fraya)
Black agate defends against envy and makes athletes invincible.
Red agate defends against the sting of spiders and scorpions, against
storm and lightning.
Aquamarine worn as earring brings affection.
Amber as a necklace for children defends them against convulsions.
Amethyst protects against drunkenness and poison if the images of
the sun and the moon are engraved on it.
Chrysolith protects against gout and madness, and facilitates searches.
Coral protects against epidemics. I t turns pale when a loved person
is going to die.
Cornelian protects against ruin and betrayal.
Carbuncle gives self-confidence, constancy and energy.
Hematite gives success in lawsuits.
Jade cures colic and kidney troubles.
Cat’s-eye protects against spells and the evil eye.
Onyx soothes nocturnal oppressions and dispels nightmares.
Peridot dispels female betrayal and encourages friendship.
Ruby dispels sadness and love troubles.
Sapphire gives health, preserves the sight, protects chastity.
Sardonyx leads to high position.
Sdenite strengthens surrounding sympathies.
Topaz is a talisman against hatred and revenge.
Turquoise protects against danger when travelling.
An o t h e r T a b l e o f t h e Sy m b o l is m o f St o n e s
Bed Agate—Calm.
Aquamarine—Hope.
Magnet—Integrity.
Black Agate—Courage. Hematite—Vivacity.
Hyacinth—Faithfulness
Jade—Power.
Jet—Mourning.
LOW MAGIC 356
Amber—Health.
Amethyst—Peace of heart.
Beryl (see Aquamarine).
Chiridion1
—talisman of love.
Chryaolith3—Wisdom.
Chryaoprase3—Gaiety.
Coral—Attachment.
Adamant—Tranquillity of soul.
Cornelian3—Friendship.
Diamond—Frankness.
Emerald—Faithfulness.
Carbuncle—Assurance.
Garnet—Strength.
Sapphire—Innocence.
Sardonyx—Vivacity.
Topaz—Gentleness.
Turquoise—Success.
Selenite*—Intelligence.
Lapis-lazuli—Ability.
Cat’s Eye—Long life.
Onyx—
Clearness.
Peridot—Happiness.
Pearl—Purity.
Ruby—Ardent love.
Sapn]
Opal—Confidence.
Jasper—Joy.
VI
Symbolism and Influence of Colours
Colour, the daughter of Light, was bound to interest men in olden
times, just as shapes, numbers, stones, etc. Fruit is judged by its
colour. And also sometimes people. Have we not seen the importance
which chiromancers attach to tne colour of the hand, or typologers
to the colour of the face ? Look at the livid and leaden complexion
of the perverted youth, the purple nose of the drunkard, the cadaverous
hue of the dying. Distrust pale women, said Bafeac. Plants also
have their characteristic colours, such as the vivid red of the summer
poppy full of sun, the melancholy reds and browns of autumn, the
repulsive green of some poisonous plants.
We must not neglect colours. Always they were treated as sym
bolical. According to Ely Star, moral light corresponds to yellow,
intellectual light to blue, the light of instinct to red. Who does not
remember the celebrated sonnet which gave a colour to each vowel ?
Does not the bull attacking a red cloak denote the fury of a brutal
instinct let loose ?
The law of the septenary seems to govern Colour. There are seven
principal colours in the visible rainbow.
Colour is taken into account in Therapeutics; this is an explained
fact. As Occultism teaches th at everything in Nature which is governed
by the same number is also subject to the Taws relating to this number,
there is a whole Magic of Colours into which unfortunately we cannot
go in detail, but which is of great interest.
We will merely mention that purple is tonic, and that it is beneficial
1 A kind of Turquoise with black lines.
1 A kind of Turquoise wi
Both a kind of Agate.
356 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
to pin a piece of sateen of this colour to a window through which the
sun shines so that the effect may be felt on a part of the body
which is aching; that red gives neat (Le Clerc, former Benedictine
and astrologer to Napoleon I, in his old age never went out without
being wrapped in a scarlet cape); that golden yellow calms the nerves
and nelps inspiration (the Thibetan and Japanese priests and others
wear dalmatics of this shade); that blue has electric powers, green
has the same powers as the mud baths at Dax, indigo, the brother
of water, refreshes; that white gives cheerful thoughts, black dark
thoughts.
Let us in conclusion give two more tables:—
A. Zodiacal and planetary relations (founded on the houses of the
Venus—Green.
B. Influences and Virtues (according to Tradition):—
Colours bringing good luck, symbolic of virtue, a re :—
While—Purity, troth, innocent pleasure.
Pink—
Morning light, timidity, amiability, welcome.
Blue—Pare love, youth, illusions, moral electricity.
Green—Hope, confidence.
Bed—Ardour, health, strength, heat.
Purple—Intelligence, politeness, knowledge, tonic.
Amaranlk—Constancy in friendship. Faithfulness in love.
Lilac—Freshness, charm, first love.
Violet mixedwith Greenand Yellow—Triumph.
Unlucky colours, bringing bad luck, denoting defects a re :—
Black—Sorrow, mourning.
Grey—Melancholy, neurasthenia.
Orange—Lust, great heat.
Yellow—Falseness, betrayal, avarice, ambition.1*
*Subject to certain reservations. M
o doubt yellow is the colour ol deception in
love. But splendid qualities redeem this symbolism. And it is difficult to accept the curse
attached to orange, whichis but a reddishyellow.
sky)
Bam—Fire.
Taurus—Dark green.
Gemini—Chestnut.
Cancer—Silver.
Leo—Gold.
Virgo—Multi-colour.
Sun—Gold.
Moon—Silver.
Mercury—Iridescent.
Jupiter—Blue.
Saturn—Black.
Libra—Water green.
Scorpio—Scarlet.
Sagittarius—Sky blue.
Capricorn—Black.
Broum—"Repentance, sorrow.
Dead, Leaf—
Sorrows, ruin.
Purple—Pride.1I
I
.
White edged with Black—Death, tears.
LOW MAGIC 367
VII
Modem Magic
#We have given in the preceding pages, a collection, somewhat
mixed perhaps, of old beliefs and magic acts. In the following we will
try ana give a survey of the remnant of Magic which modern Magicians
have thought right to preserve. And the reader will not be astonished
a t what he will find, however surprising it may be, when he remembers
th a t a part of this remnant has been examined by serious-minded
men like Eliphas Ldvi, Gualta, Barlet, Saint-Yves, Papus, Pdladan,
Piobb, Jagot, etc., and on the other hand that many of these practices
which seem so grotesque or diabolic, such as Magic Mirrors, the Casting
of Spells, etc., can tcHlay be produced very scientifically and without
the aid of dark infernal spirits.
As we have said, it was by starting with hyperpsychical phenomena
(which he himself calls hyperphysical) that P aul Jagot went back
to the practices of Magic. We will follow him stage by stage, giving
a short account of his labours, and leaving on one side everything th a t
relates to divination, already studied by Gualta, Barlet, Saint-Yves,
Papus, Peladan, Piobb, Jagot, etc.*
Great psychical phenomena, he says, arise from the first principles
of Magic. And he makes a list of the main ones among them, wnich
either nave already been described by us or will be found in our Third
Part, that is to sa y :—
I. Extenorisation of Sensitiveness (experiments by Joire,* by Colonel de
Rochas, etc.).
II. Extenorisation of Motivity (numerous experiments by Darien, Maxwell,
Riobet, Rochas, Count Grammont, Baron Watteville, Sabatier, Vic-
torien Sardou, Adolphe Brisson, Camille Flammarion, etc. 8m
Third Part. This deals with phenomena of mediumship such as
movements of things, auditions, mysterious BhockB, etc.)
1Subject to certain reservations. Purple is merely on enhanced red. Briefly, we ought
not to put yellow and red with their various shades into this sorrowful list. In our opinion
there is no Justification for it.
' Wehave chosenP. Jagot’s booh as the mostrecent. But it wouldbeadvisable alsoto
read the Treatise of Practical Magic by Papus (Chacornac—
publisher).
1Dr.Joire is the President of the Universal Society tor Psychical Studies. He wrote
Psychic tad supernormal Phenomena, Neuro-Hypnotogy. 8ee also The Mysteries of Hypnosis
by0. de Duhorn; Modem Scientific Method of Magnetism, Hypnotism, Suggestion, by P. Jagot,
and others.
358
HI. Metagnomy. We have spoken of this above. It is the perception of
persons, of things, beyond the radius of the senses of the subject, and
of past or future events.
IV. Tdepsychics. These are presentiments which have come true (see
Third Part).
V. Divided Personality. This is the extraordinary bnt tested phenomenon
of bOocation (see Third Part), whereby a person projects his ego to
a distance, his body remaining stationary.
Secondly, a list of these to some extent miraculous possibilities
having been made, P. Jagot describes, as we shall do later on, the
constitution of Man according to Occult Science. This constitution,
both in the Universe and in Man, is threefold, in the Cosmos physical,
hyperphysical (astral plane, more subtle than matter) and spiritual
(first and ruling cause of the other two elements), and in Man (the
microcosm) is corporal (the anatomical body), astral (astral body, giving
life to the physical organism, and of a subtle substance identical with
th at of the astral plane) and mental (the mental body is a conscious,
intelligent and indestructible entity).
Starting with these twofold data we may conclude:—
That there exists between the Universe and Man a threefold relation
owing to which Man is able to act by other than bodily means (as is
believed by materialists who deny both the astral body, cosmic or
human, and the spiritual world, ruler of the Universe, or in Man his
immortal ego).
The Occultist (and consequently the Magician) looks upon the
physical body merely as a temporary support of the astral ana mental
human being. The astral being directs our organic, emotional and
intellectual activities, enters into and closely blends with the physical
body, presides over the cellular life, the building and maintenance
of the individual being, orders his vegetative life and, as the centre
of the subconscious, relates sensations and impressions received by
the senses. The mental being, still more subtle, enters into the astral
and the physical being, gives consciousness and stimulates the brain;
it is the seat of thought, of will-power, of the psychic faculties; it
rules the complete individual. In one word, where the classic psycholo
gist sees three centres in the same body—sensation, feeling, thought
—the occultist sees three distinct principles.
In order to explain this occult constitution of Man, Hector Durville
has devised a very apt comparison. Imagine a large hole filled with
stones. These stones represent matter and its various states. It
is the physical state (either of the Cosmos or of Man). But these stones
leave larger or smaller interstices between them which you may fill
up, with sand for instance. This sand represents the astral (astral
plane or astral body). Finally even this sand can still let water pass
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
between its grains. This water is the spiritual of the Cosmos, the
mental in Man.
This at once explains telepathy and clairvoyance, since the astral
plane binds together all human beings, at whatever distance from
each other they may be.
The astral body has been variously termedjlmd body by Dr. Baraduc,
mormon by Hippocrates, perisprit by Allan Kardec, luminous body
by Pythagoras, ethereal body by the Greeks, body glorious by the Church.
This diversity of names make the unity of belief still more distinct.
Let us remark in passing that all religions and all metaphysics have
known this threefold aspect of man. So that we do not know which
is to surprise us more, either materialistic Science which denies all
this documentary evidence, or the Christian Church which forgets
what it formerly believed.
The following table is convincing:—
E g y p t:—K hat (body), K a (double or astral), Khou (intellect).
China:—Xuong (organic body), Khi (breath of life), Whun
(will).
Persia:—Djan (body and life), Ferouer (substance), Akkho
(eternal principle).
Greece:—Body, Shadow, Mind.
In d ia:—Rupa (physical body), Kama Roupa (body or desire),
Atmat (mind).
Israel:—Gouph (body), Nephesch and Ruach (soul), Neschamah
(pure spirit).
Primitive Christianity:—Corpus, Anima, Spiritus.
The necessary relations will easily be made. The differences are
mere shades. St. Thomas himself distinguished three kinds of soul.
Some schools, however, go so far as to count five elements in man,
and others seven. All they do is to subdivide the above mentioned
three fundamental elements. For instance, in the case of divided
personality, the physical body must continue to have an animator of
its cells. Advanced Occultists call this animator the etheric double.
There are supersensitives who see it in graveyards soon after the burial
of the corpse from which it frees itself (to this are due many tales of
ghosts). I t is this etheric double whicn is influenced by magnetisers
to restore the health of their patients.
So also the mental body presupposes a causal body which affects
the moral or constitutional consciousness, some philosophers holding
this to be different from the psychological consciousness.
Thus we have five elements. Esoteric Buddhism suggests two
more, corresponding to two states of the soul which are very rare but
LOW MAGIC 369
said to have been proved, that is, the Buddhistic body (the identification
of the ego with tne Universal Being) and the athmic body (or pure
spirit, tne perceptive centre of primal causes). Stanislas de Gualta
and many theosophists recognise this septenary.
For each of our principles, concludes P. Jagot (who confines himself
to the ternary), we are therefore in relation with the three planes of
the Universe—the plane of realities, the plane of virtualities and the
plane of directions. With our physical senses we apprehend m atter;
through the astral body we are bathed in a cosmic ocean (the astral
plane) identical with our astral essence, and are thus in contact with
our fellow-beings and with the forces, agents and entities whose inter
play determines the genesis of facts; through the mental body we are
in touch with causes.
This explains the power of Thought, producing invisible vibrating
waves which try to translate themselves into realities. These forces
become the conductors of elements which are analogous to them, and
they put into motion the plan of virtualities where events arein prepara
tion. Hence the creative force of Thought, proved by the photographs
of Dr. Baraduc and Commandant Darget, who have succeeded in
fixing on the sensitive plate the effort of the mental body.1 Thoughts
thus become real material things as well as forces. An Englishman,
Bichard Ingalese* goes so far as to assert th at by addressing mentally,
in a concrete form, a request to the Universal Consciousness (astral
and mental plane) we can obtain from the latter the object thought of,
because in some way we project the matrix of the-thing which we
evoked. The whole of the remarkable passage of Paul Jagot as to
the method of commanding ourfate should be read, where he proves
that a psychic who is awake ana strong can do everything he wants to,9
and that he has an influence not only on other persons, but also on
events.
The practice of this individual psychism is Personal Magic, which
corresponds to the first two methods mentioned above by Pierre Piobb
for the use of fluids.
Side by side with this personal Magic we have Traditional Magic,
which is much more complicated, and which is in the main the Magic
of which we have spoken in our “ Storehouse of Low Magic.” We
repeat that we attach no derogatory meaning to this expression, since
P. Piobb also calls it High Magic. I t is simply that we nave kept the
1 See bis Transcendental Photography, where will be found what are called sign-manuals
of the soul. See also Personal Magnetism, by Hector DunriKe.
• See his Bistory and Power of Thought.
1 Treatise of Occult Sciences and Practical Magic, page 54 et eeg.
380 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
latter term for Hermetic Philosophy, but we adm it th at the expression
is incorrect, and explain it by the convenience of language.
For the practice of this difficult Magic we require a material, a
locality and very special gifts.
The first thing required to be thoroughly known here is elementary
Astrology; a chapter a t the beginning of’ this book deals with this,
to which we refer the reader, so th a t he may be thoroughly familiar
with the influence of each of the seven planets, as each one of them
assists, to the exclusion of all others, in the different magical operations.
Thus it is necessary to know, with the assistance of the almanacs
of Raphael, the position of the various planets in the Zodiac and their
aspect on each day of the year, especially the position and aspect
of the Moon (beneficent when it is increasing, maleficent when it is
decreasing), the influence dominating each day of the week (the Sun
on Sunday, the Moon on Monday, etc.) and each hour of the day (see
the table).
The particular realm of each planet should also be remembered:—
TheSun—Influence favourable to acts relating to active vitality (knowledge,
position, love, etc.)
The Moon—Influence favourable to acts relating to vegetative activity
(security, foreknowledge, journeys, etc.)
Mara—Influence favourable to combativeness (domination, industry, surgery,
etc.)
Mercury—Influence favourable to adaptiveness (skill, commerce, medicine,
diplomacy, etc.)
Jupiter—Influence favourable to social position (the family, comfort, great
opportunities, etc.)
Venus—Influence favourable to physical perfection (harmony, charm, art,
average luck.)
Saturn—Influence favourable to long life, to abstract science (mines, treasures,
hidden knowledge, etc.)
In order to attract the influence of the entities presiding over the
functions of the Cosmos and to capture the hyperphysical forces the
following are used:—
1. Names, signs, figures, the writing of which exercises a special conductive
power over tne astral. '
2. Substances from the three kingdoms, the properties of which harmonise
with the influences.
Mr. Jagot gives in this connection seven tables1which we reproduce
here, and which show, starting at the to p :—
* These tables derive from the kabbelistic Astrology included in the Trcoliat of Practical
Magic of Papas, already referred to.
LOW MAGIC 361
362
1. A synthetic design of the entities in touch with the planet and its place
in the Zodiac.
2. The general design of the vibratory tonality of the planet.
3. The sign whioh raises the entity presiding over the beneficent acts of the
planet.
4. The sign whioh raises the entity presiding over the maleficent acts of the
K t.
alistic table of figures.
These signs and designs should be reproduced on metal or parch
ment as the case may be.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Sun
Metal:—Gold.
Colour:—Golden yellow.
Minerals:—Amber, chrysolith, carbuncle, hyacinth, topaz.
Plants:—Angelica, balsam, com, cinnamon, cardamon, caron,
celandine, common cabbage, chrysanthemum, cyclamen, gentian,
dove tree, heliotrope, laurel, lavender, lotus, marjoram, pimpernel,
orange tree, barley, palm-tree, primula, buttercup, polygomum, rose
mary, saffron, red sandalwood, sage, tansy, thyme.
Animals:—Eagle, goat, ram, canary, condor, falcon, ibis, lion,
parrot.
Synthetic perfume:—Red sandalwood.
Compound perfume:—Equal quantities of saffron, aloe wood,
balm, laurel seed, cloves, myrrh, incense, musk, ambergris. According
to tradition the above substances should be made into a paste before
being reduced to powder, and they should be burnt, as is generally
done, with incense or benzoin, and the blood of the animals mentioned
above.
Moon
Metal:—Silver.
Colour:—Silvery or white.
Minerals:—Beryl, diamond, crystal, opal, mother-of-pearl.
Plants:—Crab-apple, hay, camphor, cucumber, poppy, pumpkin,
gourd, lettuce, melon, nenuphar, water-melon, purslane, rampion,
beetroot, reed, white sandalwood, tamaris, limetree.
Animals:—Frog, toad, crab, cat, osprey, bat, goose, swan, hare,
rabbit, nightingale.
Synthetic perfume:—Aloe.
Compound perfume:—Equal quantities of seed of white poppy,
storax, benzoin, powdered camphor, frog’s head, bull’s eye. The
paste must be prepared with goose blood.
Metal:—Iron.
Colour:—Red.
2
^ m/
<»
LOW MAGIC
Mars
363
Mo o d . Ma s s .
964
M inerals:—Ruby, bloodstone, natural magnet, hematite, jasper,
garnet.
P la n ts:—Absinthe, acanthus, wild celery, agaric, garlic, wormwood,
artichoke, arum, asparagus, burdock, basil, belladonna, briar, bryony,
hemp, thistle, cibol, colocinth, bull's horn, cornel-tree, garden-cress,
dog’s-tongue, euphrasy, bean, fern, gorse, gladiola, woad, hore-hound,
mint, mustard, nutmeg, onion, auricula, nettle, poppy, leek, pepper-
tree, blackthorn, horse-radish, wallflower, rhubarb, veronica, vine.
A n im als:—Tiger, jaguar, panther, kite, cock, green woodpecker,
horse, wolf, boar, dog, hawk, scorpion, spider.
Synthetic perfum e:—Briar.
Compound perfum e:—Equal quantities of spurge, cornel, ammonia,
root of hellebore, powdered magnet, sulphur, gentian root.
Make into a paste with the blood of one of the animals corresponding
to Mars, or in default of this with blood of any butcher's animal.
Mercury
M etal:—Mercury.
Colour:—Any shot neutral colour.
M inerals:—Sardonyx, cornelian, agate, chalcedony.
P lan ts:—Acacia, aniseed, beet, camomile, honeysuckle, chicory,
couch-grass, Milan kale, fllbert-tree, wild rose, endive, madder, juniper,
marshmallow, matricaria, mercury, yarrow, millet, hazelnut, sorrel,
cinquefoil, sarsaparilla, savory, scabious, elder, tea, clover, privet,
valerian.
A n im als:—Cat (already given as belonging to the moon, but doubly
owned), fox, magpie, swallow, monkey, linnet, weasel, thrush, bee,
ant, common green lizard.
Synthetic perfum e:—Mastic resin.
Compound perfume:—Equal quantities of mastic, incense, cloves,
cinquefoil, powdered agate, to be made into a paste with the blood of
one of the animals mentioned above, preferably a fox.
Jupiter
M etal:—Tin.
Colour:—Blue.
M inerals:—Sapphire, amethyst, turquoise, jasper, diamond with
green or blue reflection.
P lan ts:—Agrimony, aloe, amaranth, rest-harrow, daisy, beetroot,
borage, bugloss, cedar, centaury, cherry tree, charm, red cabbage,
quince, colchicum, sorb-apple, barberrv, white fig tree, strawberry,
B ander, flax, mulberry, elm tree, popfar, peony, plane tree, plum tree,
wheat, sesame, violet.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
LOW MAGIC 365
Animals:—Buck, stag, giraffe, lark, partridge. Jupiterian animals
are known by the peaceful, majestic, stately gait.
Synthetic perfume:—Saffron.
« 1
8 S
9 9 64 62 68 1
<
•9IS Ik u Si 1
1 10 56
4
1 V 27 4* 19 (2 46
u 3<
tiS *9 2d a « 2
5
;o ?? 37 $6 io 3
1 »
a kl k to u 4J « Ik
9 ss n It 1) S
I 50 u
64 2 3 b
i 6o 6 51
Me r c u r y .
u 14 15 A
3 7 6 u
5 II IO 8
-16 2 3 -13
Jo FETCH.
366
Compound perfume:—Equal parts of seeds of ash, aloe wood,
storax, benzoin, powdered azurite, powdered peacock feathers. Mix
into a paste with the blood of a partridge.
Venus
Metal:—Copper.
Colour.-—Green.
Minerals:—Emerald, light coral, sapphire with pink reflections.
Plants:—Almond tree, box, cassia, celandine, honeysuckle, lemon-
tree, coriander, watercress, spinach, fuchsia, clover, mistletoe, iris,
hyacinth, house-leek, purple lilac, lily, cherry-pie, medlar, forget-me-
not, myrtle, easter daisy, pansy, periwinkle, plantain, apple tree,
mignonette, rose, satyrion, wild thyme, colt’s-foot, verbena.
Animals:—Turtledove, nightingale, wood-pigeon, dove, pigeon,
goat, sheep, sparrow, pheasant, butterflies.
Synthetic perfume :—Musk.
Compound perfume:—Equal proportions of musk, ambergris, aloe
wood, red roses, powdered coral, to be made into a paste with the blood
of one of the above animals, preferably a dove.
Saturn
Metal:—Lead.
Colour:—Black.
Minerals:—Obsidian, onyx, jet, diamond and black coral.
Plants:—Aconite, agnus-castus, asphodel, cactus, hemlock, cocoa,
cummin, cypress, datura, hellebore, spurge, fennel, black fig, male
fern, stavesacre, lichen, mandragora, moss, parietary, lungwort, rue,
soapwort, weeping willow, saxifrage, scrofulary, serpentine, tobacco
plant.
Animals:—Vulture, owl, toad (already mentioned, but doubly
owned), bat, great-owl, little owl, mole.
Synthetic perfume .—Sulphur.
Compound perfume:—Equal parts of seed of black poppy, seed
of henbane, root of mandragora, powdered magnetic iron, powdered
myrrh, made into a paste with the blood of one of the above named
animals, preferably a bat.
• • • • » ♦
The making of Talismans.—As has been seen above, in order to
make a talisman it is necessary first of all to know what results are to
be obtained, then, knowing this, to capture the required influence by
the use of the signs, figures and substances which give the greatest
intensity, remembering to take the relative times into account. And
at once two observations suggest themselves:—
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
LOW MAGIC 36?
1. The absolute uselessness of the fetishes, amulets, luck-bringers, etc., sold
in the shops.
2. The necessity, in order to make a talisman useful, that it shall be manu
factured by its wearer or by a third party interested in the wearer,
who shall make it /or his use.
Vb h c s . SATUBS.
368
How is it to be made ? By referring to the information given above,
or by using a complete ritual such as that quoted by Piobb (Formulary
of High Magic), by Papus, or by Jagot (Treatise of Occult Sciences,
already referred to).
For instance, is it desired to make a solar talisman in order to
capture harmonies favourable to spiritual, intellectual and material
improvement, to artistic fame, to success with women, to a vivifying
of the heart ? You must have a disc of yellow gold, some yellow silk,
a new paintbrush, a carbuncle, portions of solar plants or animals,
solar perfume and an incense burner. At the correct time (a Sunday,
or when the Sun passes through the constellation of Leo in a good aspect,
and in any case at the hour of the Sun) you withdraw into a room
with yellow hangings, burn the appropriate perfume, engrave on one
side of the disc the figured table of the Sun, on the other'side the
appropriate signs (see the table of the Septenary), then enclose the
disc together with the stone (carbuncle) and the suitable packets of
plant and animal matter (see the table) in a bag of yellow material
sewn with a thread of the same colour.
The method is the same with the other planetary talismans.
Evocations.—Evocation is the calling up of the entities which seem
to direct the cosmic forces in the astral and other planes, or superior
beings called elementals,1 who animate the four fundamental elements
(earth, water, air, fire). But there is another not very thoroughly
identified hierarchy of elementals which inhabit the Invisible. The
evocation calls them up or conjures them, according to whether they
are good or evil, and in various ways captures or commands them.
But this is a difficult and sometimes dangerous proceeding, impossible
for the weak or the supersensitive. It requires a very thorough
knowledge of the complicated rites of which the Treatise or Mr. Jagot,
and even the book of JPapus, give but a summary, and which we shall
not attem pt to set out in this elementary Encyclopaedia.
Modem Black Magic.—If we consider Magic with the knowledge
of the possibility of phenomena founded on the occult principles above
set forth, and at the same time with the wish of avoiding any extra-
scientific exaggeration, we shall arrive at a better understanding of
the practices of modem witchcraft which have no connection whatever
with demoniac agency.
No doubt there still are sorcerers, but they may be looked upon
as magicians of the second rank, and according to the very apt com
parison of Papus, may be put into the same position as that occupied
by a workman compared with his engineer working in the same class
of industry. The engineer, trained in his College, has much more
■8ee the veryremarkable pages of Papas on Elementals in his Treatise of Practical Magic,
page 401 et seq. Also see his book and the writings of Eliphas LW on Evocations.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
theoretical knowledge and much less practical experience; the work-
man has much more manual skill, but lacks technical knowledge.
So it is in the case of the sorcerer compared with the magician, at
any rate with the modern magician who is more a scientist of the
psychical laboratory (for the ancient magician often combined an
immense knowledge with a constant practice rendered easy by faith
around him). The sorcerer of to-day, the village sorcerer, the sorcerer
of savage tribes, is above all an empirical experimenter who uses given
occult methods without knowing their laws.
B ut some sorcerers are honest people, who try by the exercise
of their psychic gifts to relieve the sufferings of their neighbours;
they are healers, bonesetters, intuitives who have learnt certain secrets
of Nature and understand simples (we mean by this wild medicinal
plants). Others, less honest, indiscriminately work good or evil for
money, or to satisfy the passions of others or their own, here giving
a good prescription, there casting an evil spell. They are the most
numerous, for human nature, alas, consists mainly of people in whom
both Good and Evil have their dwelling. Finally there are the frank
scoundrels, who work only for hatred, destruction and death, those who
tie knots, the jettatores, poisoners, who invent the worst spells. They
are to be feared, and are, unfortunately, actually maleficent.
The sorcerer generally begins as an odd youth, sickly, mocked by
his comrades, bearing the triple sign-manual of Saturn, Mars and
Mercury in bad aspect, sometimes with an additional sign-manual
of the Moon, seeking solitude where his intuition increases, seeking
also the company of some other sorcerer of the neighbourhood whose
secret knowledge he tries to purchase from an obscure design to avenge
himself on Fate by hidden methods of rule.
Then the little sorcerer exerts himself, finds intuitively old formulae
in books of spells, or manages to understand those which his teacher
hands on to him, he is able more or less correctly to use magnetism,
suggestion, ordinary magic. If at bottom he is honest, he will be content
with this. If not, he will try to go farther, and eventually tries his
hand at the raising of demons.
The true magician, says Jagot, has a well trained will and possesses
the four conditions of su ccessclearn ess of the mental representation
of the aim to be attained, continuity of such representation, complete
concentration of mental energy and intensity of volition. The sorcerer,
who is without this great discipline, tries to reach obsession by a stimu
lant, maintains it by a series of awkward and grotesque rites, manages
to concentrate his attention by looking fixedly at certain objects for
a long time, finally reaches exaltation by reciting with full faith formulae
which he has learnt by heart. Thus, consciously or not, he gets into
a vibratory condition which enables him to act.
LOW MAGIC 369
370
B ut what acts can he perform?
He is quite obviously able to magnetise various substances to
an extent which entails pood or evil results for human beings, animals,
or the harvest, he can influence some people by tele-psychics, haunt
a house by projecting his astral body, obsess, frighten, act by
suggestion, cure ills, but also make them worse, cast spells. Ana
weak and impressionable persons fall an easy prey to him, also
excitable people in the periods of depression which invariably follow
on outbursts of temper, also those who, bearing a grudge, and
desiring with all their power calamities for their enemies, succeed
in acting as continual conductors of evil influences. The sorcerer
attracts, sustains and projects elementals and larvae in order to
disturb normal conditions. He may even become able, through
his own powers, to bring about phenomena of mediumship (see Third
Part) and to consolidate the extenorisation of his double into a material
isation which may take a truly diabolical shape if his over-excited
imagination so wuls it.
The sorcerer moves the astral plane which bathes not only humans,
but all beings, even inorganic. Matter lives, and the atom evolves
(we have spoken of gamah^s). If there is life in minerals, d fortiori
there must be life in plants, and intelligent life in animals. “ The
power of the tamer over the wild beast,” says Paul Jagot, “ the
animosity of the police dog against the criminal, the sagacity which
dogs have shown in recognising, holding and denouncing the murderer
of their master, their lugubrious howling if there is a corpse in the
neighbourhood, the conductive thread of the homing pigeon, all these
can be explained through the astral body of the animal.”
It is because he acts on the astral plane th at the sorcerer is able
to kill domestic animals, to sterilise the harvest, to harm a man’s
health at a distance, to cause mental trouble, to cast spells, even to
“ cast the evil eye,” so great is his power over the timid.
We could not better close these remarks on modem witchcraft
and its possibilities than by quoting two cases recorded in the reports,
quoting from Mr. Paul Jagot, who will forgive us for borrowing, in
this part of our chapter, so much from bis Treatise of Occult Sciences
and P ra c tic a l Magic, one of the most remarkable, clear and fascinating
books on these matters which we have seen, and which we strongly
recommend to our readers in order to complete their knowledge of the
conceptions of Magic which we are compelled to condense in an
encyclopaedia in which we have to deal with so many other matters.
The first of these events was reported by Stanislas de Gualta, the
second by Mirville.
A man of the name of Hocque, a shepherd, was sentenced to the
Galleys by the High Court of Pacy on the 2nd September, 1687, for
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
bavins, as public report had it, cast a spell on cattle. Hocque in vain
appealed against the sentence of the Bailiff, and whilst he was still
in prison the suggestion was made that he should be given a companion
of the name of Beatrix, who was no more and no less than what we
to-day call a copper’s nark. Beatrix succeeded in making Hocque
talk, and the latter in fact confessed that he had buried a dose of poison
in a stable, and th at the epidemic would stop if the charm was destroyed.
Beatrix makes a report of the conversation, and he is told again to
make the culprit drink and to obtain from him the breaking of the
spell. Which was done. Hocque fell into the trap, forgetting the
dire magic law of the shock on the rebound of which we have already
spoken and which operates the return of the current, deflected from
its objective, to its starting point with redoubled force. And the
sorcerer wrote a letter to ask a colleague in Burgundy to raise the
curse. B ut as soon as the messenger had started, he returned to his
senses; he saw his error, became furious with the traitor and tried
to strangle him. He was stopped in time, and meanwhile the sorcerer
in Burgundy carried out his task. But as soon as he had burnt the
poison, the colleague showed great sorrow at having done so, for he
then learnt, no doubt by telepathy, since he did not know it before,
th at the author of the spell was in Paris, in prison, and that he would
Say with his life for this broken magic. And in fact at the same hour
[ocque was dying in remarkable convulsions and like one possessed.
The documents proving this strange trial are in the Central Office
of the High Court.
The following deals with a haunted house. I t dates back to 1851,
and took place in Cideville, in the Seine-Inflrieure.
A shepherd of the name of Thorel (shepherds seem to be particularly
adept at witchcraft) was accused by his master and teacher, a sorcerer
like himself, and denounced by the priest of Cideville, of striking the
latter by occult means to avenge himself. B ut the priest seems to
have been fairly immune from such attacks, and in his turn he prosecuted
Thorel before the Courts. The latter then attacked one of the pupils
of the priest with such success that the presbytery was soon haunted;
the walls shook, unexplainable noises occurred, the furniture moved
of itself, in short nothing was lacking. The authorities, the Mayor,
the Judge, the physician, all certified the facts. Better still, the be
witched boy saw Thorel’s double, and even this spectre attacked him
to such an extent th a t the marks of the blows remained visible. A
priest who was brought in as witness and was well versed in occult
Sractices, knowing the dissolving action of a steel point on the coagulated
uid, took an appropriate tool and threw it in the direction of the
spectre. Immediately a flame burst forth, smoke invaded the room,
and a voice asked th a t this hyperpsychic duel should end. The priestly
LOW UAOIC 371
victor requested that the culprit should come and ask the forgiveness
of his victim. And on the morrow, under the influence of this powerful
suggestion, Thorel himself came to the presbytery. B ut this time
he tried to strike the vicar of Cideville, who threatened him with his
stick. The Justice of the Peace of Yerville was present. As previous
to these proceedings Thorel had brought an action against the priest
for damages, he was non-suited and ordered to pay the costs. The
whole matter with the depositions and evidence is preserved in the
judicial archives of Yerville.
Here also we have a case of divided personality. This coming
out of the astral may also explain the various stories of werewolves,
as some very expert sorcerers were able to alter the shape of their double,
and also the Sabbath, where the double of some initiate might well
actually take the shape of the traditional Satan. B ut Gassendi suggests
yet another possibility. One day he succeeded in obtaining from the
sorcerer information as to the means by which he went to the Sabbath.
The sorcerer took certain drugs, rubbed himself with a narcotic oint
ment and at once fell into a heavy sleep, on awaking from which he
asked the physician, whom he thought he had taken with him, if he
had thoroughly enjoyed himself amongst the devils, telling him of
the scenes at which he was quite sure he had been present!
We were going to finish here with our tales of Witchcraft, when
the remarkable volume of Ely Star, Mysteries of Beings, fell into our
hands, and we cannot refrain from quoting the following facts vouched
for by the author:—
The explorer Saint Pol Lias told him that one day, when he was
on a mission in Kaffraria, he saw a negro who was going to be executed
because he “ made wood speak,” in other words because he practised
■witchcraft.
“ Is it possible ? ” asked Saint Pol, and asked for proof.
“ Give me your stick,” said the negro, and taking it in his hand,
he rubbed it, uttering at the same time barbaric and no doubt magical
words, then gave it back, saying, “ And now you may stick it in the
earth and question it, it. will answer you.”
Whereupon the negro returned to his place amidst the soldiers
and went to his death humming some war song.
Saint Pol went off saddened and intrigued, first of all sceptical,
then driven by curiosity he turned into a little oasis where, half an
hour later, he tried the experiment.
Having planted the stick in the earth, he asked:
“ Spirit of the Wood, will you answer me ? ”
“ Yes,” uttered a thin and distant voice, which he at first took
for an acoustic illusion.
372 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
However, not afraid of being laughed at, as there was no one near
him, he put two definite questions as to the time of arrival in port
of a boat which he expected, and as to the presence of a certain person
who ought to have been among the passengers.
And the thin little voice gave him the information he wanted.
" You may believe me if you like,” concluded Saint Pol in telling
the story to Ely Star, " but the details were exact.”
“ W hat do you think of it ? ”
“ I think that I believe in everything, that I doubt of everything,
and th a t I do not deny anything.”
“ There speaks a wise man. And did the stick make further pro
phecies ? ”
“ No, for by the time I questioned it again, the unfortunate sorcerer
must have been executed.”
How is this phenomenon to be explained ? Perhaps by supposing,
as is suggested by Jagot, th at the Kaffir sorcerer was able to exteriorise
his double and even his voice whilst remaining in psychical contact
with the explorer, thus following him into the oasis and from a distance
replying to his questions.
Another traveller, A.D., quoted by Ely Star, has told of the marvels
worked by sorcerers of Dahomey ana Madagascar, who are sometimes
as powerful in magic as the Indian Fakirs. One of them (in Dahomey)
one day told A.D. th at he possessed a terrible curse, and as the traveller
did not believe him, he said:
“ Point out a tree to me, and I will kill it.”
A.D. indicated a small mangrove tree. The sorcerer stretched out
his left hand towards the shrub, concentrated his will, and to his
amazement the traveller saw the leaves turn yellow and curl u p ; at
the end of a few minutes the tree was dead.
I t is by the opposite power that Fakirs have been seen to make
plants germinate and grow in a few minutes, by placing their hands
on them.
Father Hue has brought similar tales back from Thibet. He was
walking with a bonze when the latter, listening suddenly, told him
th a t he was being called to a Convent far enough away for the journey
there and back to take several days.
“ Do not worry, however,” said the Bonze, “ I shall be back here
presently, or at least before sunset.”
And as the Jesuit appeared surprised, the Bonze continued:
“ I t is not with my visible body that I shall go yonder, but with
my astral body.”
“ B ut since you have the power, why do you not simply send your
spirit there ? ”
“ Because it is my realpresencethat is needed there, for a ceremony.”
LOW MAGIC 373
qaa/& b puB ‘asore }s b j }b oipw. Kuiumui pasoddns aq} jo pBaqaioj aq}
puB uintua}s aq} paSassBUi S u u aq }saiid Suipisajd aq} ‘siaXaid puB
jnoqB[ jo sinoq aApAV} }noqB aa}jB papaaaons Xaqx *
u b u i Suidaap
aq} uaqB/AB o} Xressaaau sa ju aq} }no paurea puB Xpiuiajos p in Xq
jb o u }U3a u o 3 jsreurer[ b j o pauno^ paaasg aq} aa}B[ sXap auiog
’,,’Xus i )Bqj\ jo joojtd aq} aas j j ia v noj^
*uot}isodtuoaap }sisaj ppioa Xaq} 'saApsuiaq} payund puB pareaaiid Xpip
SuiABq p us ‘SuiXp }noq}iAi paunq aq 0} pjo jo ajdoad jn o j o j ajqissoa
s b m }i suoijipuoo uropaa u j’„ *azuoq aq} paurejureui ,,‘saj^j,
- ’ ’ ‘laauiSua aq} pres ’„ j iqqissoduiT „
(<'u b iu duidaais b
Xjajarn si }Bq£ „ *}t pauiuiuxa 3uiABq J3}j b ‘jsau d aq} pres (<‘o ^ „
'Xuitunui b urejuoa
jqSiui }i Suiquiq) ‘}i uado 0} azuoq b pagua puB snSBqdoaius b punoj
aaautSua Su &b u b u i aq} *}dXja uBauBXiajqns b punoj SuiAsq uauiqjOM
aqX ’paqstjouiap aq o} paq BpoSad ({Buis b ‘Bipuj ut u a \ o } u iap aa b ut
s j j j o a v aqqrid auios }no Xxrea o} papiaap uaaq SutAaq }t *8681 u j
•puiui u.vvo siq p u s qiM UMo’siq q )m ppqa
aq} pagy Xjpa}qnopun paq uaptSaui aq} }joj)a AjqSiui o X g ' •UJsinb
-opj}U3A jo aauB}sui ap u iis b aiaq aABq a.u }«q} qutq} }ou op a^\*
•}soq aq} j b o u aoBjd
siq o} p a u jrtp j Xj a v o j s pua asoi jp fB j au} agqMUBap[ ‘uoissaidxa
fBjn}BU S}i paiunsaj pua aj}}Bi s}t dii paqaid qarqAv ‘pjiqo aq} spiBJAO}
}U3m 'uoijouia q}m SuidaaM ‘aaq p u i aq £ *
u ib 3b u m o d }b s XpABiS }i
‘SuiAVoq 'u aq x 'Xqdosogqd {B}uapuaasua.i} jo* siuajqojd asiu}sqB }soui
aq}'jo auo uo aonpai Su iz b u ib u b aSanSuB] }oaxioa Xp}tqosqB ut o a iS o}
papaaaoad p u s ‘}Boaq} "s}i pareap ‘sqsanS paiquiassa aq} }B' Xp'amb
paqoor ‘a[}}Bj s}i paddojp ‘dn }o3 Xqaq aq} Xjuappng ’3u ia o u i }noq}iM.
auii} su o | b paureuiaj ‘puays b q}iM jp su tiq SuuaAOD ‘pua u io o j aq} jo
jauiioa b ut UAVop pa}}Bnbs ‘suoiq'sna auios uo ppqo aq} paoBjd a ji
•OM}
jo Xqaq b o} Supuiod ‘jiq B j aq} pres ,,‘ppqo }Bq} aABq aui }a^ „
•paqsB aq u ‘}q3iii-o} sn Moqs o} 3uio3 noA are 3uiq} Atau } B q ^ „
*uoi}daaaa 3tq o }B sjsanS siq asniuB o} p}oq siq 0} Xu ib a v s b pu ia o ^
pajjBa uB auauiy aq} (b [b 3b v }uapuB aq}) aioqaq }b Su ia ij }sjiqAV
— : SuiMogoj aq} sajBjaj uBauauiy XqipaM b
tuoqAv jo ‘XuiBAvsBpuiAog sba a ‘piBaq J3A3 sap} Su iz b iu b }SOui aq} JO
atunjOA b Bipuj u io j j qaaq jqgnoiq oqAV ‘}o|ipoB f srnoq 0} squBq}
‘Avauq adoang uioqM suBpiSaiu n p u ifj 3inpunb}su }soiu aq} jo a u o
\ia}B[ sanoq o a v } uaq} ssa| 3uuun}aj pua ‘p ap adxa s b a a aq
aiaqM aaB^d aq} 0} a v o j j b u b aqq 3uio3 ‘XauanoC aq} apaui ajqnop siq
‘}no poqo}ai}s paureuiai ‘aouBi}' ai}da(B}Ba b ui jji}s ‘Xpoq siq }spq/A
p u y ‘ssausnopsuoa }soj aq aaaqAv }b u i b uo UAvop Xb [ uaq} ‘s u i b j }u b u i
siq p a jp a j *subt}iqqB siq apuui }saud n p u ijj aq} ‘gaa siq ui q o sg
S 3 0 N 3 I D S X i a O O O 3 H I W8
later was going about like any other person. He had slept for twenty-
two centimes (this was proved by an examination of the papyrus found
with him).
We leave it to the reader to make what hfe likes of this fantastic
tale which is crowned by an epilogue still more fabulous:—Bored
by his surroundings, the ancient Sleeper said, at the end of two years,
that he wanted to go away. He called a meeting of the bonzes, clothed
himself in a white lambskin, girded himself with a rope, pronounced
his spells, and sharply threw the end of the cord into the a ir ; the
rope became taut as if pulled by invisible hands and raised the fakir
who ascended mysteriously and disappeared—like Elijah, and like
Christ.
Since we are speaking of Lamaist Convents, let us refer to the
recent book of Ossendowski, “ Beasts, Men and Gods,” which has been
much attacked as being a skilful mixture of facts (the author has
actually been in Mongolia), travellers’ tales and fancy. This novel
has been compared (in particular by Mr. Borie in an article in the
Mercure de France) with the tales of Father Hue of which we have just
spoken, and who visited Thibet from 1844 to 1846. We will therefore
quote the following very curious ta le :—
A lama had cut himself open, taken out his entrails and placed
them in front of him, and then had returned to his former condition.
However horrible and disgusting this sight may be, it is none the less
very common in the Lamaist Convents of Tartary. The Bokte who
is about “ to show forth his power ” as the Mongolians say, prepares
himself for this appalling deed by long days of fasting and prayer.
During this time he must abstain from all communication with other
men and keep the most absolute silence. When the appointed day
comes, the vast multitude of pilgrims meets in the great courtyard
of the Convent, and an altar is erected before the door of the temple.
At last the Bokte appears. He advances solemnly amidst the acclama
tions of the crowd, sits down on the altar, and takes from his belt a
large knife which he places on his knees. At his feet numerous lamas
sitting in a circle, begin the terrible invocations of this horrible ceremony.
As the prayers proceed the Bokte is seen to shake in all his limbs, and
gradually to fall into frantic convulsions. The lamas soon lose all
restraint; their voices get louder, their chants become disordered,
and finally the saying of prayers gives way to screams and howling.
Then the Bokte suddenly throws on the scarf which covers him, takes
off his vest, grasps the sacred knife and cuts himself open. Whilst
the blood is flowing, the multitude prostrates itself before the ghastly
sight, and the frenzied Bokte is questioned as to hidden things and
future events. His replies are looked upon as oracles.
LOW MAGIC 376
376
When the devout curiosity of the numerous pilgrims has been
satisfied, the lamas return with calm and solemnity to the recital of
their prayers. The Bokte collects with his right hand somp of the
blood of his wound, breathes on it three times and throws it in the
air with a great shout. He rapidly passes his hand over his wound,
and everything returns to its former state without the least trace
remaining of this diabolic operation, except perhaps an extreme
lassitude.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
VIII
Little Supplementary Lexicon o f M agic
It being,aswehavesaidabove, impossibleforuswithintherestricted
scope of this Encyclopedia to go lengthily into detail as to everything
concerning magic science, our readers may be grateful to us for giving
them briefly various names and information for which we have been
unable previously to find a place. We give them in alphabetical
order.
A
A .—Letterofbadomenamongstthe Greeks. Withit the M
agicians
began the threats made in the name of the Gods.
Abans.—Spirits of the iron mines (Persia).
Abisendcgani.—Fountain of water which makes immortal (East).
Its Western equivalent—the fountain of Youth.
Abracadabra.—Kabbalistic word of healing which was worn round
the neck engraved on a disc on which the letters forming this
word were placed on the points of a magic triangle.
Abraxas.—Magic word the seven letters of which make the number
365. In Persian it denotes God.
Acham.—The Demon of Thursday.
Aequo Toffana.—Subtle poison invented of Toffana of Palermo
who also made acquata (with probably a basis of arsenic).
Adytum .—Sacred spot in the temples, whence the oracles came.
Agalhomedon.—Familiar spirit of the Greeks who drank a glass
of wine in his honour after meals.
A grippa o f Wittesheim.—Famous German occult chemist and
physician (1486-1585).
Agyrtes.—Priest of Cybele who cast horoscopes.
Akasa.—In esoteric Buddhism this word indicates the organic
electricity of stars and human beings.
Akhim.—City of Great Magicians in the Thebaid.
Albumazar.—Astrologer of the 9th century.
Alleur.—Spirit or ghost of ruins (Normandy).
Alrinaeh.—Demon of Shipwrecks.
Alyssus.—Fountain in Arcadia which cured madness.
Alocer.—Demon in Astrology.
Alminga.—W ater plant of the Amazon with which the Indians
used to rub their virile member so as to develop it, calling the
while on the Gods of fertility.
Amphiarau8.—The most famous soothsayer of old Greece.
Any.—The presiding Demon of Hell.
Anamoleck.—The Demon of bad news.
Andros.—The Demon of discord.
Andriagne.—Griffon believed to be ridden by magicians.
Angat.~N am e of the Devil in Madagascar. The Angatos are
ghosts.
Annachiel.—The Spirit of Sagittarius.
Anneberg.—The German Demon of Mines.
Annocchiatura.—Charm by the eyes or by words, the mysterious
power of which brings the opposite of the wish (Corsica).
Aour.—Hebrew name for well balanced astral light.
Apone.—Healing fountain in the neighbourhood of Padua. The
dwelling place of the oracle Geryon.
Apophrados.—Unlucky days among the Greeks.
Apoielesmatic.—Another mediaeval name for Astrology.
Aquiel.—The Demon of Sunday.
Arachvla.—Evil spirit of the Air (in China near Siberia).
Ardad.—A Demon which led travellers astray (East).
Akriman.—The Spirit of Evil (Persia).
Arma.—Breton fairy.
Arnuphis.—Great Egyptian sorcerer.
Asaphins.—Oniromancers in Chaldea.
Ascaroth.—The Demon of spies and informers.
Asmodeus.—Devil (Hebrew). Asmodeus is said to have tempted
Eve.
Asmndcl.—The Spirit of the sign of Taurus.
Aspiol.—A kind of evil gnome or spirit.
Asrofil.—The Angel who will announce the Last Judgment (Islam).
Astaroth.—One of the Chief Devils. Astarte is its female.
Auguraculum.—Place where the sacred hens were kept (Rome).
Auine.—Evil Spirit (Germany).
Avemtts.—Pestilential bog at Baiae, said to be the entrance to
hell.
Azael.—One of the first angels to rebel. He is said to be chained
up until the Last Judgm ent (Rabbinical legends).
LOW MAGIO 377
378
Azariel.—The Angel of the waters of the Earth, invoked by fisher
men (Talmud).
Angels (Jewish).—Anael, Gabriel, Samael, Michael, Sachiel, Raphael
and Camel.
Anim als (impure).—Among the Jews, grass-eating animals which
do not chew the cud, rabbits and all rodents, pigs, aquatic
animals, excepting fishes, flesh-eating birds and water-birds,
the ostrich, the bat, the monkey, the lizard and all saurians,
batrachians and snakes.
Asiluih.—The Kabbalistic name for the Universe.
B
Baal.—One of the Great Demons (Chaldea).
Bad.—-The Spirit of Tempests (Persia).
Bagh.—Magic knot preventing the consummation of marriage
(Islam).
Bahaman.—The Spirit of Domestic Animals (Persia).
B ali.—The King of Hell (India).
Bansehi.—White lady, Queen of Elves.
Banshee.—Family Spirit (Scotland).
Barbiel.—The Spirit of the sign of Scorpio.
Barcheel.—The Spirit of the sign of Pisces.
Basilisk.—Serpent (bom of an egg laid by a toad) whose look killed.
Bechard.—The Demon of Tempests.
Bechet.—The Demon of Friday.
Behemoth.—The Demon of Animal Strength (Hebrew).
Belial.—Demon of the Sidonians.
Beelzebub.—One of the Princes of Hell.
Biergen-Trold.—Spirits of the Woods and Mountains (Faroe Islands).
B ilis.—Madagascan Demon which stops the rice ripening.
Bitabas.—Sudan Sorcerer.
BUhia,—Scythian Witch who bewitched or killed with a look.
Bodilis.—Breton Fountain of Virginity.
Bogie.—Scotch imp.
Bohemians (or Rdmes or Gypsies).—According to Papus, low caste
Hindus (artisans) who emigrated in mass to Europe.
Bohimum.—Spirit of Evil (Armenia).
Broceliande.—Enchanted Forest in Brittany (Finisterre) where
Merlin lives.
Brocken.—General meeting place of German Witches (in the Harz
Mountains).
Bucon.—The Demon of Hatred.
Byleih.—One of the Kings of Hell.
Bassantin.—Scotch Astrologer (16th century).
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
379
Berson.—Seer at the Court of Henry III of France.
Bonati.—Florentine Astrologer (18th century).
Braccesco.—Italian Alchemist (16th century).
Bragadini.—Italian Alchemist (16th century).
C
Cacomedon.—Evil Spirit. Name given by some Astrologers to
the twelfth House.
Caipora.—Gigantic Spirit of the Forests of Brazil. Caiporism
belongs to bad luck.
CaWwis.—Celebrated soothsayer of Antiquity.
Caliban.—Evil spirit.
Canidia.—Famous sorcerers who cast spells by means of wax dolls.
Caous.—Evil spirits of caves (Caucasus).
Caeowc.—The name of certain malignant ropemakers (Brittany).
Carmenta.—Italian Pythoness.
Ckasdins.—Name of Chaldean Sorcerer-Astrologers.
Cheitan.—Arab Demon bom of smoke.
Chikk.—Evil Spirit (Arab legends).
Cocles.—Chiromancer of the 16th century.
Couril.—Dwarf spirit with webbed feet which haunts Druidic
stones (Brittany, Ireland).
Couropira.—Lame dwarf in Brazilian legends.
Craeteis.—The Goddess of sorcerers and enchanters.
CurruB.—Old town in Italy celebrated for the grotto where the
Sibyl of the same name lived.
D
Demiurg.—According to the Gnosis, the Divine Love to which
God has entrusted the management of the World.
Demonology.—The Science of the influence and the nature of Demons.
Demons (Hebrew).—Beelzebub, Samael, Pythin, Asmodeus, Belial,
Lucifer and Satan.
DemophUa.—The seventh Sibyl of Cumae, the one who brought
the Sibylline books of the Elder Tarquinus.
Dir.—Persian Demon.
Djinn.—A kind of demon or hobgoblin born of flame (East).
Drac.—Familiar spirit, benignant fairy.
Dragon (red).—Book of witchcraft of the 16th century dealing with
the art of evoking spirits, making the dead speak, finding hidden
treasures, etc.
DroUs.—Northern Demons giving warnings of danger.
Dyonito dal Bergo.—Italian Astrologer (18th century).
LOW MAGIC
380 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
E
Elves.—Spirits of Northern Mythology.
Ellivane.—Wandering spirit of Scotch legend.
Eon.—Intermediary between Man and God, according to some
Occultists.
Erlking.—The Spirit of Oaks (Germany).
Errohani.—The Magic interpretation of the Koran.
Etraphill.—One of the Moslem angels entrusted with the trumpet
of the Last Judgment.
F
Faifadets.—Hobgoblins in Eastern and Scottish legend (not mis
chievous).
Fires o f St. John.—Joy fires to which various superstitions are
attached. The night of St. John (24th June) is the shortest
and is one of the magic dates of the year. Young girls believed
that if on that night they danced nine times round a fire they
would soon be married. Sorcerers thought th at the night
was favourable to the picking of the herbs used in their spells, etc.
Flaga.—Wicked fairy in Scandinavian legend.
Fioraventi.—Alchemist of the 16th century.
G
Gabriel.—Spirit of Aquarius.
Gandreid.—Irish Magic (the power of witches of riding through the
air on horse ribs).
Ganga.—Soudanese Magic.
Gauric.—The imp of Megaliths (Brittany).
Geber.—Persian Prince, Sabean author of numerous occult works
and chief of the magicians of his lime.
Gematry.—In the Kabbala, the study of transpositions.
Genethliacs.—Another name for Astrologers.
Gengues.—Japanese Soothsayers.
Ghaddar.—Arab demon (Upper Egypt).
Ghoul.—The Demon of Graveyards (Arabia).
Goblins.—Spirits of Ships (Brittany).
Gonin.—Old French name for jugglers, snake-charmers, etc.
Goule.—Woman dedicated to the evil spirits.
Gratoulet.—Sorcerer learning to “ tie the knot.”
Gri-gri.—African Talisman. The most efficacious is a bag contain
ing a piece of the dried navel-string of the wearer.
Guaron.—Another name for the sorcerers of the Middle-Ages.
381
LOW MAGIC
H
Hamaliel.—The Spirit of the sign of Virgo.
Hanael.—The Spirit of the sign of Capricorn.
H aza.—A Scottish Druidess.
Hexe.—Witch of the North of Europe.
Holda.—A kind of Sabbath (Gaul).
Horei.—Evil Spirit (West Africa).
Huard.—Demon who teases travellers (Brittany).
U adikin.—Familiar spirit (Anglo-Saxon legend).
Hypophete.—Ancient priest receiving and communicating oracles.
/
Ignis fatuus.—Burning gases arising from certain kinds of soil
(containing hydrogen and phosphorus) which our fathers took
for spirits or for the souls of the dead.
Incubus.—Male spirit or demon taking a body for the purpose of
meeting a woman.
Incscation.—Occult medical process (the transfer of an ill from a
man to an animal).
Insemination.—Occult transfer of a human ill into the earth.
Irroration.—Magic healing (by watering plants with the discharge
of the patient).
Ithyphallus.—Phallus-shaped amulet.
Iwange.—Sorcerer in the Moluccas.
Iynge.—Kind of love potion.
J
Jakis.—Malignant spirits of the air causing illness (Japan).
Jamambux.—Japanese Fanatics claiming to communicate with
the devil.
Jukle.—Spirits of the air (Lapland).
Juripary.—Spirit of Evil (Brazil).
K
Kaho.—A kind of curse (Marquesas Isles).
Kam lat.—Evocation ofthe Devil by means ofa magic drum(Tartars
of Siberia).
Kaybora.—Spirit of Woods (America).
K elpie.—Spirit of Rivers (Scotland).
Kleudde.—Imp (Flanders).
Kobold.—Imp (Ireland).
Koltkis.—Nocturnal spirit (Slavonic legend).
Korrigan.—Dwarf spirit of Druid monuments.
382
Koughas.—Malignant spirit (Karatchatka).
K oupai.—Evil spirit (Peru).
Kumacanga.—Name for the werewolf in Brazil.
K u pai.—Name of the Devil (Florida and Peru).
Kircher.—Famous German Jesuit Scientist said to have been
a sorcerer (17th century).
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
L
Ledoux (Miss).—Famous cartomancer (19th century).
Laica.—Good fairy (Peru).
Lam ia.—Fabulous spectre with woman’s head and serpent’s body.
Lanitkro.—Demon of the air (Moluccas).
Lase.—Benignant spirit (Thibet).
Lechies.—Female rustic spirits (Slavonic mythology).
Leviathan.—One of the Chief Demons.
Lilith.—Phantom of a cruel beautiful woman (Jewish belief).
Ludlam.—Benign fairy (England).
Laensberg.—Astrologer of Liege (17th century).
M
Magares.—Sorcerers skilled in “ tying the knot ” (Mingrelia).
Malchichel.—The spirit of the sign of Ram.
M anifest A rt.—King of enclyclopedia of kabbalistic signs. Also
part of the Kabbala dealing with the science in numbers.
M anitou.—Indian Fetish (North America).
M antras.—Sanscrit magical formulae.
M aridh.—Arab demon.
M astiphal.—One of the Princes of Darkness.
M aty-Tapire.—Lame dwarf of Indian legend.
Mecasphxn.—Chaldean sorcerer.
Medrashim.—Kabbalistic books.
Meerman.—Spirit of Water, announcing Tempests (Baltic countries).
Melusine.—Fairy of Poitou (Family spirit of Lusignan).
M eming.—Satyr (Scandinavian Mythology).
M iligm a.—Offering to the infernal deities (Greece).
M uhazimim.—Name for possessed persons (Africa).
M uriel.—Spirit of the sign of Cancer.
Mystagogue.—Initiator into Mysteries.
Manto.—Famous pythoness in Thebes.
N
Nakarmkir.—The Spirit of Repentance (Islam).
Narac.—Hell (India).
N assib.—The Law of Destiny (Turkey).
Nemos.—Malignant spirit (Arabia).
N idde.—Song of malediction (Scandinavia).
Nirvana.—Buddhistic word denoting the state of the individual
losing itself in Nothingness.
N ixes and N ives.—Spirits of water (Germany).
N om es.—Virgins of Time (Germany).
N oiaria.—In the K&bbala, the study of signs.
Nostradamus.—French Astrologer (1508-1566).
O
Oberon.—The King of the spirits of the air (England).
Obi.—Negro sorcerer.
Ombiache.—Madagascar sorcerer.
Ombrophore.—Soothsayer foretelling rain.
Omen.—The name of the omen given by the augurs.
Orcavelle.—Famous sorceress of romance.
Ortas.—Spirit of soothsayers and astrologers.
Ormuz.—The Principle of Good, opposed to Ahriman (Persia).
Orcus.—Old name for H ell
Ouikka.—Spirit of Evil (Esquimaux).
Ouran.—Magician (East Indies).
Ourisk.—Im p of Scottish legend.
Obereit.—Swiss Alchemist (18th century).
Orenne.—Astrologer (14th century).
P
Pagek.—Indian sorcerer in Brazil.
Pandemonium.—Meeting of Devils. The whole of the Devils.
Paneros.—Fabulous stone relieving barren women.
PaUda.—Name of the Indian Hell.
Peri.—Female good spirit (Persia).
Perlimpinpin (powder of).—Made of the ashes of cats, toads,
lizards and aspics burnt together. Was used in various
“ Miracles.”
Pctpayaton.—Evil spirit of the air (Siam).
Phylactery.—Amulet made of strips of parchment (Jewish).
Phyteum.—Kind of thistle used in some potions.
Piua-K arras.—Malabar sorcerer protector of sharks.
P iripis.—Peruvian talisman made of magic plants.
Polyglossos.—Prophetic oak.
Posoera.—Class of witches.
Pousti—Reducing plant used by Fakirs.
LOW UAGIO 383
384
Prcepales.—Favourable augurs (Roman).
Psychagogy.—Rites for pacifying the Shades.
Psychurgy.—The science of the esoteric principles presiding over
birth and death, that is to say the transformations of the soul.
PsyUe.—Snake-charmer.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Q
Quirim.—Magic stone which, placed on the forehead of a sleeper,
will make him tell what is in his mind.
B
Ranail.—Madagascan spirit.
Rhombus.—Group of sorcerers dancing at the Sabbath.
Runes.—Magic letters used in spells (North of Europe).
Ruggieri.—Florentine Astrologer (16th century).
S
Saalah.—Demon enticing persons into the woods for the purpose
of tormenting them (Arab legend).
Sabeism.—Original worship of the stars.
Sacy-Perere.—
^Cheerful spirit of the Brazilian woods.
Saga, Sagane.—Mediaeval names for witches.
Spirit of punishments and misfortunes (Persia).
Salutadores.—Healing sorcerers (Spain).
Sanave.—Madagascar amulet.
Sehaman.—Sorcerer in Lapland.
Scopelism.—Curse attached to stones thrown into a field or garden.
Senes.—Druidesses of the Island of Sein who calmed the Winds.
Sepker Jesirah.—One of the classic books of the Kabbala.
Sileidy.—Madagascar Astrologer.
Skou.—Spirit of the Woods and Mountains (Faroe Isles)
Soled.—Spirit of the Mountains (Alpine legend).
Sotray.—Imp called Sotret in Lorraine.
Spagyria.—Medical part of Alchemy relating to the composition
and decomposition of bodies.
Spir.—Ancient name given to Spirits (hence Spiritism).
Spirits (lower).—Thesewerethe gnomes(earth), the undines (water),
the imps (air), the salamanders (fire).
Stryge.—Vampire or spectre which ate living beings.
S u m .—Name of Sylpns in Gaul (female Sylphid).
Sylphina.—Land of the Sylphs (England, Ireland).
SymmysL—Person initiated into the Mysteries.
Stadius.—Chiromancer of the time of Henri I I I of France.
386
Stoffler.—German Astrologer (15th century).
Swastika.—Buddhist symbol of the Sun, of lig h t.
T
Taboo.—Objectswhichmaynotbetouchedbyanyone(NewGuinea).
Hence the expression, to be taboo.
Taconius.—Name of the Fates in Islam.
Taingairi.—Spirits of the air among the Kalmuks.
Talamasc.—Effigy of the Devil exhibited at certain festivals.
Talapoin.—Priest and Magician in Laos.
Talys.—Talisman made of a tiger’s tooth (India).
Tamuz.—Name for Hell among the Kalmuks.
Taribot.—Dwarf sorcerer (Madagascar).
Tarni.—Exorcising formula (Kahnuk).
Telet.—Purification rite among the initiates.
Tenebrion.—Spirit of Darkness.
Teraphim.—Automaton’s head which foretold the future (Jewish).
Termagant.—Mediaeval idol.
Tennis.—Evil and prophetic demons (Norway).
Teusapotdier.—Malignant spirit inhabiting animals (Brittany).
Themury.—Iii the Kabbala, the study of commutations and com*
binations.
Tibalany.—Spectre appearing in trees (Philippines).
Togo*.—
-Sorcerer (Araucania).
Tomgarsuk.—Greenland spirit.
Totem.—‘
Guardian spirit (North America).
Trees (sacred).—The Acacia in Egypt, the Banian in India, the
Birch in Kamtchatka, the Oak among the Celts.
Trollen.—Good spirit in Norwegian legend.
Trout which spins.—Lake trout belonging to Gillet-Soulard who
was accused of sorcery and burnt in 1466.
Tyre.—Ball of down used in Magic in Lapland.
Tiresias.—Noted soothsayer of Antiquity.
U
Udaci.—Kind of Fakir.
Uphir.—Chemist demon attending to the toilet of Beelzebub.
Utesiluro.—Irish magic establishing communication at night with
evil spirits.
LOW MAGIC
V
Vaudoisia.—Meeting of Sorcerers (Pays de Vaud, Switzerland).
Verchel.—Spirit of the sign of Leo.
386
Verdelet.—Demon who carried the Witches to the Sabbath.
V ila .—Spirit of Dalmatian legend.
V itiu m .—First word of evil omens.
V erd u n .—French sorcerer (16th century).
V illiers (Florent de).—Famous astrologer (15th century).
W
W a iro n .—Old name for werewolf.
W a tip a .—Malignant spirit of the shore of the Orinoco.
W illis.—White spectres of German legend representing the souls
of betrothed women who died before marriage.
y
Y a r a .—Kind of siren in Brazil.
Z
Z a k u m .—Tree in the Mohammedan Hell whose fruits are devil’s
heads.
Z a g a m .—Winged demon with bull’s head.
Z a h u ris.—Spanish soothsayers who discover water and hidden
treasures (see Magic Rod).
Z o h a r.—One of the fundamental books of the Kabbala.
Z u r ic l.—Spirit of the sign of Libra.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
T h e Sw a s t ik a
L O W MAGI C 3 8 7
Tiif . F if t e e n t h Pl a t e o f t h e Mo t h s Lib e r .
This represents the apotheosis of Saturn victor over Jupiter, tho solarisation of
the base metal through light and turning into Gold.
CHAPTER III
Al c h e m y
Th is chapter will be relatively short. Not that Alchemy, which we
classify between Low Magic and High Magic, is not of enormous interest,
especially since the attempts at bringing it up to date made by Poisson,
Tiffereau and especially by Jollivet-Castefot, the general secretary
of the Alchemist Association of France, the editor of the review called
Hyperchemistry, and the author of numerous books on the subject.
Not that it does not contain most interesting information, for we
must not forget that it formed part of Hermetism and was called
the Great Art. But Alchemy requires very abstruse studies
which are outside the scope of our popular Encyclopedia. In
order to deal with it appropriately we should have to do so very
thoroughly, and that would entail a course of study of very advanced
science of interest to only a few who are already prepared for it by
preliminary work. If these latter wish to go into the m atter thoroughly,
they would do well to study the special books, some, of which are
mentioned in the note at the foot.1 Here we will confine ourselves to
saying what is Alchemy, stating its fundamental ideas and summing
up its ancient and modern claims.
In the preface which Dr. Encausse (Papus) wrote for How to become
an Alchemist by Jollivet-Castelot, the former first of all shows that it
is a mistake to believe that Alchemy is but the stammer of Chemistry.
In olden times men in fact studied nature in its body, its life and its
spirit. The study of the Body taught the laws of universal organisa-
1In particular; Uytoloism, Alchemy and Ac Unitarian Chemists, Alchemy, How to become
an Alchemist, etc., to which may be added, Theories and Symbols of the Alchemists, and the five
Treatises on Alchemy by A. Poisson : the Methodical Treatise of Occult Science of Papus; The
Origins of Alchemy by Berthelot; Oold and Ac Transmutation of Metals by Tiffereau: Introduc
tion to Unitarian Chemistry by A. Strindberg; Alchemy and the Alchemists by L. Figuier; the
works of Peladan, Eliphoa Levi and others also contain valuable information onthissubject.
In addition there Is a very remarkable collection of plates called the Mutus Liber (that is
to say the Dumb Book, the Book of Pictures without Words) which is very old and over which
many a Hermetic philosopher has broken his head, which sums up the Great Task in fifteen
engravings. We have seen a magnificent copy of this gem, published by Emile Nourry, on
Japanese paper, with an explanation signed Magophon. This shows in pictures the progress
of the alchemist doctrine which Eyrenee Philarcte had already described in his Open Entrance
to Ae Close Palace of the King. We merely draw attention to this emblematic work which
starts with the Dream and the Egg whence issues Secret Science, and ends with tho apotheosis
of Saturn or the eolarisation of the base metal, that is to say ita transmutation into Gold.
tio n ; the study of Life enabled the laws of transformation (including
for instance the law of transmutation of metals) to be grasped; the
study of the Spirit led to the power of creation.
Now from the 15th and 16th centuries onward official science
confined itself to the study of the Body, and left the study of Life and
of the Spirit to the so-called Occult Sciences. And Alchemy is the
study of these metaphysics forgotten and despised by Chemistry. In
reality the three steps of knowledge a re :—Chemistry (for the beginner),
Alchemy (for the initiate), Hermetic Philosophy (the Supreme Science).
The main students of Alchemy w ere:—Albert the Great, Roger
Bacon, Raymond Lullius and Arnauld de Villeneuve in the 18th century,
Nicholas Flamel and Basil Valentine in the 14th and 15th, Paracelsus
in the 16th, Van Hclmont and Helvetius in the 17th, Pernety in the
18th, Cambriel, Louis Lucas, Albert Poisson, Papus, Marc Haven,
Strindberg, Tiffereau, Emmens, Barlet, Stanislas de Guaita and Paul
Sedir in the 19th. At the present day Mr. Jollivet-Castelot is its
most distinguished representative.
The Church, so severe with Sorcerers, was less so with Alchemists
and secretly protected them. Several Popes studied the subject,
especially Sylvester II, Honorius III, Urban V, Leo III (the author
of the Enchiridion); also various Hermetist Bishops, such as Denis
the Areopagite, Saint Cesaire, Bishop of Arles, Saint Malachi, Bishop
of Annagh, Synesius, Bishop of Ptolemais, Nicephorus, Patriarch of
Constantinople, Cardinal Ailly, Chancellor of the University of France,
Cardinal Cusa, Bishop of Caserti, etc.: further the Jesuits Kircher and
Postel, the Benedictine Trithemus, Monarchs such as Alphonso X,
King of Spain, Charles V, King of France, Rudolph II, German
Emperor, vast numbers of scientists in addition to the five or six
mentioned above, such as Kelloe, Lazarellas, Palinginesis, Michael Scott,
Petrus de Zalento, etc., the Arabs Avincenna, Hamel, Artephius and
very many others.
■ i • • • »
Alchemists acknowledge the unity of matter, and in this respect
are in agreement with tne most eminent of official scientists. They
base their atomic system on Ether, the universal fluid (the astral light
of the Kabbala), and on the principle of evolution. According to
them m atter is composed of molecules divided into infinitesimal particles,
called atoms, which again are but one degree removed from E ther;
hence m atter is compact energy which in the last resort is able to dissolve
itself into free energy, into force.1 In truth for the Alchemist energy
and m atter are but one and the same thing which in short is Substance,
in the philosophical meaning of the word.
* For all phenomena are movement.
ALCHEMY 389
390
Thus Substance is All, is One, the Principle, the Absolute. And
this One is divided into three :—Intelligence (or force), Energy, Matter.
The Ether contains all the etherial vortices (atomic, cyclonic,
electric collections of particles) and is endowed with evolution. All
bodies are made of atoms identical but variously grouped, all are
polymetrical modifications of the same element.
It is therefore not surprising that Alchemists should claim that
theoretically (and practically, say some of them) it is possible to make
gold, that is to extract from other chemical bodies certain atoms and
so to group these latter that they shall-in fact constitute gold. It
would be just as easy artificially to make Iron, Sulphur or Lead, by
arriving at the grouping of the atoms of which they are naturally
composed.
The Kabbala also teaches a Unitarian doctrine. Its data are
adapted to the three planes of Nature (mental, astral, material).
Hermetism therefore gives its keys kabbalistically. The Alchemist—
even in modem days—is always a priest who bases his physical or
moral work on the Primordial Genesis which is none other than Taroc.
Taroc and Kabbala are therefore synonymous. And the Alchemist
sees a fatidic connection between the Great-Work and the astral
influences, kabbalistic geometry and numbers. These connections
are subtle. We do not go into them here as we do not wish to com
plicate our subject matter.
Neither shall we deal with the discipline which, according to Jollivet-
Castelot, the Alchemist must undergo and which he extracts from
the interpretation of leaves 8 to 14 of the Taroc, just as he extracts
the principles of Alchemy from its first seven leaves and its practice
from leaves 15 to 22. Thus the whole cycle of the major arcana of the
Taroc (the first 22, there being 78 in ail ) corresponds to the Science
of Alchemy. This is called the Alchemical Taroc.
So also it would take too long to follow him in his remarks on the
Philosopher's Stone, the Universal Panacea and Palingenesis which
constituted and still constitute the three fundamental researches
of Alchemy.
We will confine ourselves to saying that Alchemy and occult
Therapeutics are two sister-branches of the same science—Hermetism.
The Hermetist studied transmutation as well as the panacea whose
object was healing by acting on the astral, that is to say on the initial
cause of the ill; and looked at in this light the word panacea loses
its absurd meaning of a remedy for all ills; the hermetist did in fact
search for a drug sufficiently powerful to restore the circulation, the
vital balance, and thus to act beneficently on the whole organism;
this may be a chimera, but it is not nonsense.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Besides is the Electro-Homneopathy of some modem physicians so
different ? And what is MelaUotnertmy f We quote in this connection
a passage by Jollivet-Castelot in New Horizons (December 1908):—
“ Alchemists were all agreed that Gold healed, that Gold was the
greatest of all Great Remedies; and they sought to administer it in
powders, in solutions.
“ The Matter of the Great-Work, mixed with a liquid, liquefied,
constituted the Elixir, the celebrated Elixir of long life winch was to
produce marvellous results. This is mentioned in all the pamphlets
of the tim e; it aroused as much interest as the Philosopher’s Stone
itself; and legend relates th a t Nicholas Flamel and his wife Pemella,
having drunk it, went to live for ever on an enchanted isle.
“ Well, is it not curious and suggestive th at modem Medicine—
following in this all the scientists of to-day, whatever branch of science
they may study—at last proclaims, tacitly at least, the depth and the
truth of ancient ‘ occult ’ science and makes use itself of its wonderful
revelations ?
“ Ju st as the chemists a t present recognise the U nity of M atter
which has always been maintained by all the Alchemists, so also the
doctors of the great medical schools possess themselves of the oid
prescriptions wtuch point to Metallotnerapy as the sanest and the
safest treatm ent.”
“ Besides, Metallotherapy and Electrotherapy—no doubt identical,
since metals in contact with the skin produce currents—are quite
obviously the best treatm ent in the case of neuropathy, of hysteria,
or nervous phenomena of any kind whatever.”
Mr. Bury described the sesthesiogenic effect of the application of
certain metals to the skin.
“ Mr. Landouzy reported the case of lethargic sleep induced by
the nearness of a m agnet; Dumontpallier and Pitres mention cases
of sleep and waking brought about by metallic contact.”
At the Salpgtmre numerous researches were made by Charcot,
which went to prove the powerful influence of a magnet on patients
suffering from hysteria.
“ B ut it is especially to Professor H. Durville th at the great honour
belongs of having studied in detail and with remarkable ability the
various influences of the m agnet; he has created the true theory of
magnetism which is undoubtedly an agent derived from electricity
or a form of this latter energy scattered and latent in all bodies and
centralised by certain metals of which it constitutes the soul perhaps,
certainly the medical value.”
As to the Philosopher’s Stone, we know th at it was a chemical
compound which had the power of transmuting metals into gold (Great-
ALCHEMY 391
Work) or into silver (Little-Work). Bose de Veze claims th at it has
actually been found, Van Hclmont that he has seen and touched it
in the form of a saffron coloured powder. Dr. Emmens has even
sent to America ingots of Argenlaurvm, a precious substance which
he had succeeded in making. As we have seen above, Papus stud
th a t this “ magical ” powder was called Elixir or Universal Panacea
when it was taken inwardly. In short it was merely a condensation
of the vital energy into a minimum of matter.
We shall say nothing of Palingenesis, by means of which Alchemists
claimed that they could produce a living being, plant, animal or human
(the homunculus).
B ut is it a matter for laughter?
We look at a back number of the Matin and find the following
over the signature of Dr. Stephane Leduc, Professor at the Medical
School of N antes:—
“ Life presents itself to us as the result of two physical forces,
one active, the osmotic pressure which puts the various molecules
into m otion; the other passive, the resistance of the plasma and the
membranes to this motion. The inequalities of the resistance of the
latter to their reparation or union seem to be the cause of the chemical
and electrical reactions of life, of nutrition, of assimilation and dis-
assimilation.
“ I have been able by means of physical forces to reproduce the
form of various cellular tissues constituting living beings, and the
cells so obtained turn out to have the same main functions as the
living cell. In 5 or 10 per cent, gelatine solutions it is possible to
obtain a cellular tissue. Each cell has its covering membrane, its
protoplasm, its nucleus. By using salt water as plasm and drops of
the same salt water coloured with a different extract, entirely liquid
cells are obtained. I have produced liquid cells with liliaiy extensions.
These cells have the double current of osmosis and molecular meta
bolism ; when dried up their movements stop; they then present the
image of the latent life of seeds and infusoria, for their movements
start again as soon as the necessary humidity is restored to them.
“ I have reproduced by intussusception of organism and growth
phenomena of nutrition which up to the present were considered ns
characteristics of life. Crystals grow by juxtaposition, as does a
wall by the bricks placed on it. Up to now living beings alone have
grown by intussusception, that is to say by mixing to the whole of
their substance the substance absorbed. In trying to copy the physical
conditions of life, I have produced artificial seeds made of one third
of copper sulphate and two thirds of sugar with sufficient water to
make them into grains; I sow these seeds into an artificial plasm
made of water, gelatine, ferrocyanide of potassium and a little salt;
392 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
the seed surrounds itself with a membrane of copper sulphate which
is pervious to the water and the salts, but impervious to the sugar
which sets up inside it a strong osmotic pressure owing to which the
seed swells, germinates and grows, sending out rhizomes and roots,
then vertical stems which may rise to a height of 12 inches; these
stems, simple or branched, sometimes have lateral leaves; they have
terminal organs in the shape of thorns, balls, ears, tendrils, etc. These
growths have a circulation apparatus in which the sugar and the
membranogenous substance rise, like the sap in the plant, to a height
up to 12 inches. When a stem is broken during the growth, the pieces
reunite; a scar is formed and the growth starts again. These growths
arc sensitive to all physical and chemical influences, to heat, cold,
variations of concentration, chemical poisons. But physiology is
wrong in saying that sensitiveness or irritability, that is to say the
power of reacting to impressions coming from outside, are characteristic
of life. This sensitiveness is a general property of m atter; it would
be impossible to find an instance of action without reaction; the
very pavement responds to the least influence ; not only does it thrust
back violently the heavy object which falls on it, but it responds by
expanding to the mere touch of the finger.
“ The growths from these artificial cells exercise most of the functions
of living beings, such as nutrition by intussusception, complicated
organism, growth, sensitiveness, power to heal wounds; therefore
they constitute a link between the living world and the mineral world.
One function only they do not yet possess, the power of reproduction;
this problem belongs to the same order as those which I have
already solved, and I have prosecuted its study with the following
results':—
“ In the fertile cells, and generally in all cells capable of multiplying,
Hermann Fol has discovered curious figures which he compares to
magnetic spectres or phantoms. By means of physical forces and
in liquids of the same composition as the living plasm I have reproduced
not only these figures, called karyokinetic, but also in their regular
sequence the very complicated successive appearances which they
present during the phenomenon of cellular division from the rolled
up cord called spiremen down to the final two cells. In the artificial
plasm are seen in succession all the phenomena, all the movements
and all the shapes which appear in the ovulum after its fertilisation.
“ The segmentation of tne egg during incubation is one of the most
mysterious phenomena of life. Up to now we had no conception of
a physical force able to produce such a result. Incubation, whatever
may be the kind of its production, is always a physical action which
produces in the ejgg currents which are slow to diffuse. In trying to
produce in artificial plasms currents which are slow to diffuse, I have
ALCHEMY 383
obtained a segmentation of such plasms entirely analogous to the
segmentation of the egg.
“ These results have already given us a number of important links
between the mineral world and the living world ; they show the success
of the new points of view which have produced them and of the methods
by which they have been obtained.”
And to the strong-minded people who mock at the idea of the
Philosopher’s Stone we offer another article published in the OSuvre
of the 19th March, 1925, over the signature of Mr. Philippe Lenormand :
“ At a recent meeting of the Academy of Sciences, Professor
d’Arsonval showed the design of a new electric generator capable of
supplying a continuous potential different of 500,000 volts!
“ To be sure higher potential differents had already been obtained,
but with apparatus producing alternating currents. B ut it is these
continuous currents of very nigh voltage which, as we shall see, are
of the greatest interest to physicists.
“ Following Mr. d’Arsonval, Mr. Jean Perrin, professor of physical
chemistry at the Sorbonne, for whose laboratory the new generator
was intended, drew attention to this.
“ Mr. Jean Perrin spoke as follows:—
“ The advantage of this new generator is that it is designed on a
principle which will enable the voltage of the continuous current sup
plied by it to be increased more and more. In its present form it
gives 500,000 volts, but when the question of expense no longer arises,
we shall on the same principle be able to construct an apparatus giving
1,000,000 volts, then 2,000,000, and on the day when we have at our
disposal these potential differents, we shall again be able to devote
ourselves to the nucleus of the atom. A new chemistry will be created
whose field of action cannot yet be foreseen, and we may say th a t on
that day something will be modified on this planet.
“ Let us try to understand the meaning of the enthusiastic prophecy
of the learned professor.
“ And for this purpose let us remember first what is the composition
of the atoms of all the bodies which constitute Matter. We know
th at these atoms consist of a central nucleus, a very tiny grain of positive
electricity around which gravitate, like the planets round the sun,
grains of negative electricity, the electrons.
“ Let us to-day only consider the nucleus of the atom, for this is
characteristic of all bodies. This nucleus is not a simple grain of positive
electricity. I t consists of other grains smaller still called protons, and
which are nothing other than nuclei of the atom of hydrogen, the
simplest atom of ml. It is the whole of the charge of electricity formed
by the union of the protons which characterises the atom of a body
and gives to the latter its peculiar properties. We know for instance
394 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
th a t the azote atom has a charge seven times as great as the atom
of hydrogen, oxygen eight times, sodium eleven times, and uranium,
the most highly charged of all the nuclei, ninety-two times.
“ Except in the case of radioactive bodies, the atomic nuclei of
which are complicated and consist of a very great number of protons,
and which, no doubt on th a t account, spontaneously disintegrate,
the structure of the nucleus is very stable.
“ If we were able to withdraw from the nucleus of an atom some
of the protons of which it consists, we should be able to transform
one substance into another, we should obtain a true transmutation
of matter, and the dream of the alchemists of old would come true.
“ B ut is there a means of obtaining this splitting up of the nucleus ?
“ Down to very recent times the answer to this was no, and the
doctrine of the immutability of m atter could be held to be settled. B ut
a few years ago an English scientist, Sir Ernest Rutherford, succeeded
in partially transforming bodies into hydrogen.
“ By bombarding azote, phosphorus and aluminium with the
Alpha rays of radium, he succeeded in extracting from the nucleus of
the atom of these substances its component parts, the protons, th at
is to say the nuclei of the atom of hydrogen.
“ The Alpha rays of radium possess an extraordinary force.
They are composed of terrible projectiles consisting of atoms of helium
charged with electricity and having a formidable speed.
“ Now it is these projectiles which by their concussion succeed
in disintegrating the structure of the nucleus of the other atoms.
“ The force of a charge of electricity depends on the height of the
potention from which it falls. In the case of the Alpha rays of radium
Sir Ernest Rutherford says th a t it may be taken th a t these atoms of
helium charged with electricity fell from about a million volts. And
by means of this million volts it is already possible to extract from the
nucleus of an atom a few of the protons of which it consists.
“ W ith two million volts a t our disposal, what deeper disintegrations,
what unexpected transmutations might we not effect 1
“ And in this lies the very great interest of a generator like the
one mentioned by Mr. d’Arsonval and Mr. Perrin, on the day on which
it would produce a potential different of two million volts. Let us
give an example of what we might expect from the bombardment of
the atom by means of this formidable voltage. The nucleus of the
atom of mercury contains 58 charges, the nucleus of the atom of gold
has 52. Therefore it would suffice to extract from the atom of mercury
one proton, one nucleus of hydrogen, and it would be transformed
into gold.
“ Will the philosopher’s stone a t last be found ? ”
The importance of this discovery, or rather of this find, and its
ALCHEMY 396
consequences is obvious. First of all it bears out the hexagrammatist
theory (sec Appendix) as to the structure of the atom, with this slight
difference that no doubt there arc not four simple atoms but only one.
And do we not here fall back into obvious Alchemy ? Look again
at the last sentence of the above short but important article:—“ I t
would suffice to extract from the atom of mercury one proton, one
nucleus of hydrogen, and it would be transformed into gold.” The
Alchemists tried to do this, for it is merely the transmutation in their
heated retorts. We are going to attempt it by means of an electric
generator. So long as the end is attained, what m atter the means,
and will not the theory of the scientists of old be entitled to just as
much honour ?
Here is another “ modern ” aspect of Alchemy.
In the January and February, 1925, numbers of the Occult Review
there were published two articles signed by Ralph Shirley and Fulblor
Hamel referring to a fantastic discovery which Mrs. Dickinson is said
to have made at Brighton, which is shortly as follows:—
Whilst experimenting with Eastern gums and oils for the purpose
of producing a new antiseptic, Mrs. Dickinson observed reddish
brown crystals on the lid of the receptacle containing the mixture.
She directed the flame of a Bunsen burner on to them and after a
slight explosion she obtained a crystallisation in the shape of a hollow
cyunder.
Soon after she saw suspended in a bottle of her Eastern oil a brown
object the size of a ladybird and the shape of a scarab, of a beautiful
golden red, fitted with fine threads, giving in the sun bright rays of
great luminosity.
She enclosed this nucleus in a tube in which it continued to radiate
intensely, depositing on the outer wall a steam which condensed into
crystals some of which had extraordinary beauty, and resembled
crystallised sunbeams.
If these crystals are placed in a tube and held in a pail of water,
they purify and vitalise the latter.
We are here faced with a new force, superior to radium, for it is
in addition able to multiply. It is a universal purifier and a universal
solvent.
If a culture is placed in a zinc receptacle and this receptacle into
the tank of a boiler, the latter is cleaned automatically. This marvellous
water refines oil in the highest degree. Unleavened bread made with
this vitalised water remains fresh for an indefinite time provided it is
damped from time to time with the water, which can also be used in the
cleaning of skins, of flax, as an antiseptic, and for many other purposes.
These arc the facts. Alchemy alone can explain them. Arc wc
not at last face to face with the Philosopher's Stone, which is not a
396 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
stone but a strange substance having the vital qualities above set out,
and which corresponds to the descriptions given by Thomas Vaughan,
Amaud de Villeneuve and others ? That substance was protean in
character and, like that found by Mrs. Dickinson, made water radio
active.
It is surprising that some scientist does not take up these studies
to arrive at some definite result.
ALCHEMY 397
CHAPTER IV
Hig h Ma g ic
I
The Kabbala
We have given an intermediate, connecting place to Alchemy. Our
readers will have guessed why. In our humble opinion Alchemy,
owing to something if not childish at least chimerical, still forms part
ofLowMagic. Andsmall indeed, althoughnotnegligible, isthe number
of Occultists who study it and still credit it with a triple power which
is both risky and harmful, that of being able to make gold from other
metals, an operation whichto-day is of no importance, as paper money
has taken the place of gold, the latter losing its value as soon as it is
possible to make it commercially, and it is probably one day going
to disappear altogether from finance; the power of finding an elixir,
a panacea curing all ills, useless now that medicine attacks direct and
locally the physical ill, and hasin addition foundthe means ofrenewing
the health of the enfeebled body; the power finally of creating living
beings, even men, this phenomenon being no doubt illusory, in any
case inferior to natural birth, and in addition dangerous on a planet
which is already overcrowded and where men kill each other in order
to find fresh places to exploit.
On the other hand in its principles Alchemy derives from High
Magic, from the Kabbala, from Hermetism, with which we will now
proceed to deal, and which are the summit of Ancient Science, the
part which might be named Superscience.
Here also we shall be brief, lor this Encyclopedia is only intended
for interested people, whowish to have some general idea, some concise
and brief survey, and above all practical knowledge. If they want
to go farther on the noble road—and we should like to see more and
more neophytes preparingfor initiation—they will have to get together
a special library where the important books will find a place, or attend
the somewhat infrequent lectures on these great questions.
• « » • » *
What then is the Kabbala? It is not a book as many seem to
think. It is a mystical doctrineofinterpretation, anesoteric Tradition,
898
the hidden science of ancient and modem Magi, especially the explana
tion of the Macrocosm (the Universe) and the Microcosm (Man), it
is the Key of the Great Enigm a; but in order to open the Lock with
this Key, it is necessary to be an initiate.
We do not wish evU to anyone. But it is astounding to see books
being written and sold in which the definitions and conceptions of
Occult Sciences are absolutely and radically false. That these books
should attack or even ridicule could be understood, and would be but
a sign of lack of th o u g h t; but th at they should contain mistakes of
fact, this really is cheating and not admissible.
Thus in The Occult Sciences, by a certain Etienne Ducret “ of the
Society of Dramatic Authors ” (why is he not satisfied with writing
plays?) we read, “ The word occult is applied to certain so-called
sciences which produce marvellous and supernatural results in con
tradiction with experimental science.” Now nothing could be more
incorrect. Only a very small part of Occult Science, a t present given
up by serious students, deals with this vulgar hankering after miracles.
To reduce the Occult Sciences to the level of Witchcraft and to con
found the two is an insult to the eminent persons who seek to find a
general explanation of the physical world and of the mysteries of the
Invisible world.
W hat respect then can we have for the kind of dictionary of occultism
which Mr. Ducret compiles, and which abounds with silliness. To
listen to him, for instance, the Kabbala is nothing more than a Jewish
doctrine, a mystic explanation of the Scriptures. To listen to him,
Taroc is (in four lines) a pack of 78 cards where other figures take the
place of the usual ones, and which is preferred by fortune tellers. W hat
a remarkable teacher 1 He reminds one ofthe Capuchin Friar who thought
the Talmud was a Rabbi. The Petit Larousse also misleads the public,
which is much more serious, as here we have a lexicon which every
year is sold by thousands. There we read that “ Astrology is a
chimerical science which claims to be able to tell the future by looking
at the stars, as if it were possible for them to have any influence whatever
on events which depend solely from the will of man ”—th at “ Alchemy
is the chimerical art of the transmutation of metals ”—th at “ the
Kabbala is the chimerical art of communicating with spirits.” One
is amazed at the ignorance of some of these editors, who yet have taken
their degree in Letters or in Science. That they should attack might
be allowable. That they should dogmatise is unpardonable. And
what a strange mentality—claim th at events depend solely on our free
will ! speak of an “ art of communicating with spirits,” etc. Every
word is but a proof of insufficient information. And we, who have
read so much, are still afraid to make foolish mistakes in this book,
and apologize for them to our readers in advance!
H I G H MAGIC 399
400
We hope to be forgiven this short attack of bad temper. I t is
due to the thousands of pinpricks and small annoyances borne each
day through listening to or reading so many absurdities, so many lies,
so much confusion and disdain concerning estimable and deep subjects
(even though they do not contain the whole Truth) as to which most
people have but vague glimmerings, whilst putting into the same bag
a silly superstition and a great thought, a learned occultist and a
popular fortune-teller.
B ut let us return to our short study of the Kabbala. There is a
Jewish Kabbala.1 But the Kabbala is not of Jewish origin. Renan
thinks it comes horn Chaldea. Schelling sees in it the key to all
religious systems. Malleville says that the hrst worshippers of the
stars were already Kabbalists. Basnage daces the cradle of the
Kabbala in Egypt, Franck puts it in Persia, Etheridge in India, Myer
among the Aryans. Others compare the Gnosis and the Kabbala,
considering the latter the Jewish Gnosis; yet others think it was bom
in the Middle Ages; some think it is Zoroastrian, even Chinese. Would
it not be simplest to say that at bottom it is the highest thought of
the elect of all nations ? “ According to the general thought of the
Z o h a rsays P. Vulliaud, “ the Kabbala seems itself to be but a prior
tradition which is the universal tradition of which all peoples nave
more or less kept a recollection.’' But it is possible that the Jewish
people may have preserved the most exact and in some way the most
ideal recollection.
And on the other hand it is so rich, so complex, so hidden if not
obscure that, although studied by the most varied commentators,
there still remains a vague truth upon which work, meditation and
research gradually throw light. I t is thanks to the genius of these
exegetists that it remains living and fertile.2 You see men like Eliphas
L£vi, Papus, Pierre Piobb and many others extract its teaching, no
doubt coloured by their own individuality, but how filled with living
thought and powerful originality.
• • • • • •
It seems at any rate certain that some main conceptions govern
the whole Kabbalistic tradition. First of all the conception of Unity
which we have found in Alchemy (the unity of Matter) and which
we find in Hermetic Philosophy (one God, and not gods; the con*
■Aa to which read the masterly work of Paul Vulliaud (published by Nourry in 1023).
• There is no need to point out that numerous hooks havo been written on the Kabbala.
The work of Papus (published by Chacornac) contains a whole bibliography on the subject,
classified according to countries and according to subject matter. The heat known French
writers who have written on the Kabbala are A. Franck, E. Amolineau, Ch. Bark-t, Rend Ca'JId,
Eliphas L6vi, Fabre d’Olivet, Stanislas de Gualta, A. Jhounet, J. Lejay, P. Lenain, Emile*
Michelet, J. Peladan, Saint Yves d'Alveydre, A. Bertet, Alexandre Weill, S. Harpe, Sedir,
Munch, eto.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
ception of gods is for the crowd; the One God is the esoteric doctrine
of the initiates.) From this Unity the Kabbala derives the Binary,
the Ternary, the Quaternary, etc., thanks to which, by analogy, the'
Magi explained everything. Hence the importance, in the Kabbala,
of Numbers from which so much may be leamt, and which constitute
the basis of the philosophy of Pythagoras.
Is it not the conception of the Binary, which in fact suggested the
thought of the eternal struggle between Good and Evil (God and Satan,
which are found in all religions), hence the principle of universal
Antagonism, the principle of balance between two shocks, physical
or moral, etc. ? Is it not from the Ternary that the idea of the Trinity,
of the Three Worlds (material, moral, divine) the idea of the three
realms of Nature, etc., have sprung, these themselves being based
on facts (the three fundamental colours, the three conditions of matter,
etc.), here also bringing with them so many fertile analogies? Is
it not the Quaternary which regulates these ideas or these facts—
cardinal points, the shape of the cross, the four elements, etc. ? And
thus also for the Quinary, the Septenary, and the combinations of the
double Ternary, the double Quaternary, etc. All these are so many
kabbalistic keys which enable the hand of the initiate to open so many
doors of the Hidden Science.
Space, Time, Laws, Justice, Love, Phenomena, everything in the
Kabbala has a numerical correspondence, the whole Universe itself
being harmony. Are you now surprised at numerical Onomantics
which translate a personal name into a number and give it a moral
or divinatory meaning? Through the Number the Kabbala is the
study of universal hannony and also of universal struggle.
The Kabbala is also the great art of secret relationships. Open
a book like the Formulary of High Magic of Pierre Piobb, one of the
most important and most remarkable that have as yet been com
piled about these matters, and which contains more tnan one shock
tor the unprepared reader. You will find a brief sketch of these relation
ships, as for instance:—
In the Hebrew Alphabet, between the letter, its number, its mean
ing, its leaf of Taroc, its sign of the Zodiac, its sacred name and its
symbol.
In Geometry, between each figure and its symbol.
In Astrology, between the signs of the Zodiac, the planets, metals,
colours, plants, animals, perfumes, parts of the body controlled, magical
virtues.
And so in everything else—always the law of Analogy is supreme.
And there is more than this in the Kabbala. There is the idea
of a fluid which is magnetic, vital or essential, which is called
H IG H MAGIC 401
4 0 2
tetragramma, inri, astral light, astral body, perisprit, ether, double,
enormon, glorious body, etc.
This subtle fluid, hidden and powerful, the object of so much con
troversy, of so many modem experiments, and which in part accounts
for miracles, witchcraft, spiritualism, mediumship, clairvoyance,
psychometry, etc., this fluid which is the basis of Astrology, of Magic
and of many divinatory sciences, the Kabbala also deals with it. I t
is one of its elements, one of its mysteries, combined with this other,
the creative power of the Word.
“ The Word does not express an idea, it creates it,” writes Ren6
Schwaeble in his ProblemofEvil. “ That is the whole of the Kabbala I”
Not quite, but a great p u t of it. The whole of Ritual Magic at any
rate is based on the power of the word, and it is this conception which
gives its solemn grandeur to the opening words of the Gospel according
to St. John, “ In the beginning (or in the principle) was the Word,
and the Word was God (or with God).”
The Power of the Word. The Power of the Fluid which connects
by an invisible chain everything which exists. The Power of the
Number. Here, subject to error on our part, you have the essence
of the Kabbala which, by using this threefold secret in the light of
Analogy, attempted to give a complete and logical explanation of the
destiny of the Universe and of Man.
I t would be long, difficult, and beyond our scope to analyse in
detail all the books which have been inspired by the Kabbala, or to
follow the latter into all the sidepaths along which it enters into all
the realms of the intellect, since none escapes it. But we may give
a few examples of its methods and its conclusions.
Let us take if you will the remarkable explanation of the prophecy
of Ezekiel suggested by Eliphas Ldvi in his Occult Harmony of the Two
Testaments.1 It really has an enormous fascination. It will be
remembered that when Jerusalem was threatened by the Assyrians,
Ezekiel, looked upon as a prophet by the people, but who in reality
was a priest and occult initiate—wrote an admirable page, but oh 1
how obscure. Now lAvi claims that this sublime page was nothing
but an attem pt to preserve, by symbols, and so that it should not be
lost, the tradition of the occult theology of the Jews. And line by
line the learned author interprets it, showing in passing its relations
with the Egyptian, Hindu and Assyrian initiations (according to various
sculptures), with the Taroc (21st leaf, the World), and Anally with the
Gospel where we And the Lion, the Eagle, the Bull and the Man, the
signs of the four holy Editors; he also points out why Moses had
1 Manuscript written in 1861 for Baron Spelndieri, handed by the latter in 1880 to M.
Charrotwho woe the moving spirit of a Rosicrucian set in Lyons, and finally published by Nourrit
in 1020.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
forbidden th at the Temple in Jerusalem should be covered with hiero
glyphics which had led to the worship of idols, despised by the Jews
fwno, like all Kabbalists, were in favour of one God, th a t is to say
Unity, against gods). And thus we see Ezekiel stand up against
idols, agamst false prophets, against unworthy hierophants, reproach,
threaten, curse, prophecy. And what a lesson in Kabbala—this said
in passing—is not the Temple of Solomon itself, oriented, arranged,
constructed, decorated in accordance with an architecture which
itself is but a summary of the Hidden Doctrine!
The curses of Ezekiel consist of seven parts, corresponding to various
chapters of the Apocalypse. Subsequently the dream of the Prophet
takes the form of a Cross, itself an image of the four cardinal points
and of the squaring of the circle. The Cross is the Tau, represented
by the letter T, the basis of the temple of the future envisaged by the
prophet, and which will be the prototype of a Universe ruled by a
theocracy forming a hierarchy of intelligence and of truth.
The prophecy of Ezekiel, in short, is the work of a reformer, a
palingenesic poem which is the theme of the Apocalypse.
And here is a second example, taken from the same book:—
According to Eliphas L£vi, the Apocalypse itself is but a symbolical
summing up of the Initiation and a key to the High Kabbala. The
series o f events to come must be looked for only under the veil of a
transcendental and prophetic philosophy of History. I t is, in short,
the Struggle of the Spirit with the Beast, of the True Science with
Ignorance, of the Seven Virtues with the Seven Vices. For the 7
candlesticks, the 7 stars, the 7 seals, the 7 angels, the 7 trumpets,
the 7 Churches of Asia are merely symbolical of the Seven Ages through
which the Church must pass before the triumph of the New Jerusalem.
These seven ages start with the Primitive Church, followed by
the Age of Martyrs, Christianity under Constantine, the age of the
great Doctors and the great Saints, the Barbaric Invasions, the Re
naissance, and finally the regeneration of the Church through the
Kabbala.
This Seventh Age, we have attained it and we are in truth the
witnesses of a marvellous occult renaissance. Another writer, Spicer,
in a book entitled Our Times and the Fate of the World, also says th at
“ the time is near,” but he interprets the well known Vision of Daniel.
I t is possible that books of this kind are in the main mystical, but
it is nevertheless noteworthy that they agree with the fact that Occult
Science is experiencing an extraordinary rebirth. Something like
a mighty breath is felt in the air. And it may well be th at an agree
ment will be come to, by a kind of kabbalistic communion, between
the great spiritualist doctrines of to-day.
The following are further Kabbalistic methods taken from the
H IG H MAGIC 403
404 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Jewish Kabbala of Paul Vulliaud of which we have already spoken,
and without referring to those of Christ who, speaking only in parables,
did in fact use the method of the initiates.
The language of the Kabbala was symbolical. A whole lexicon
might be extracted from the Zokar (where the initiates are called the
workers in the fields, the great doctors mighty trees, etc.) The technique
of the Kabbala on the other hand is most complicated. I t is divided
into three main groups:—Gematrics (relations between different
conceptions, based on the equivalent of the value of the letters), Notaries
(forming new words with the initials of the word to be interpreted),
Themura (substitution for certain letters of others according to various
kabbalistic combinations).I
I
Thus kabbalistically Jacob’s Ladder is identified with Mount Sinai,
the numerical value of both being 180. So also the noted word of 72
letters invoked by the kabbalistic theologian represents God and his
72 superior intelligences. The whole Talmud is kabbalistic. That
is why it has been said that the letters of the Hebrew alphabet alone
are living. Some have even gone so far as to interpret the shape of
the letters which, in Hebrew, are in truth little drawings.
We cannot go farther into these subtleties. We shall in the strange
country of Numbers find other matters over which to marvel and
meditate.
The mysterious reel of Numbers has always puzzled the mind,
and we have seen that Pythagoras founded on it a whole mystical
philosophy.
In Antiquity men believed in the influence of numbers on our life,
the Alchemists believed in their occult power. Our own astronomers
and chemists, says Madame Fraya, likewise hold that “ a harmonious
relation exists between the Universe and Matter and the primary
numbers.” Let us never, in his turn says Louis Claude de Saint-
Martin, separate numbers from the idea which each of them represents,
for then they would lose all their virtue and be of no more use to us
than if we learnt the syntax of a language when we knew none of its
words.
The popular mind which is so often intuitive although it has been
accused of being childish, has at haphazard collected some of these old
traditions as to the power of numbers. We have the proof in the
sayings, “ Never two without three,” “ I t is unlucky to sit down 18
at table,” etc.
II
Numbers
405
Mr. Guymiot, a modern hermetist, claims, following Agrippa,
Planiscampi and Saint-Martin, th at Numbers contain the elements
of all sciences. E. Bisc de Veze in his turn deals with the mysteries
of numbers in his Esoteric Doctrine throughout the Ages. This may be
referred to for further details, also the Occult Philosophy of Cornelius
Agrippa (1727), the Mysteries o f the Hand of Desbarolles, etc. In
short it will be seen th a t the Science of Numbers is included in the
Kabbala. I t is one of its foundations. I t hss been studied by eminent
men. No one will be surprised to hear th at we were one day present
a t a lecture on hermetic philosophy given by an Occultist of note who
intended to give a sketch of the theory of Numbers with reference
to the Taroc, and th at at the end of an hour he had reached the ex
planation of the number 4 1
First of all let us observe th at in the system of Pythagoras odd
numbers are preferred to even numbers.
B ut apart from the figures 1 and 8 which represent the Godhead,
perfect harmony, Pythagoras had a special liking for prim ary numbers
as arithmetic calls those which are divisible only by themselves or by
one. They are as follows:—1, 2, 8, 5, 7, 11, 18, 17, 19, 28, 29, 81,
87, 41, 48, 47, 58, 59, 61, 67, 71, 78, 79, 88, 89, 97. These, says Madame
Fraya, are good numbers in a sweepstake or a lottery. Choose them,
or failing them, a multiple of 8.
We will now give a brief sketch of the chief numbers.1
1. The Pythagoreans considered that 1 represented the Godhead,
that it contains everything and that everything is derived from it.
I t is a centre which is everywhere, indivisible and absolutely
indispensable, as there is no number in which the unit will not be
found.
2. This is the origin of Evil, since through it unity ceases and
duality, th a t is the struggle, begins with all its cruelties and all its
trickery. Unity could only be Eternal Good. Two arises, which makes
for Antagonism, and Peace is over. W hat is hesitation? The
balancing of the mind between two resolutions. Even when you have
made a decision, you will never act so well as if no thought opposing
the first intention had come to you. W hat is the World if not an
eternal duel in all its elements between two principles ? Instead of
an eternal spring there hastens along the rain cloud to hide the sun.
All our troubles, all the dramas of Life are due to a second event which
comes into conflict with the normal event which was the fulfilment
of our existence. 2, the number of discord and of war in ourselves
or with others. However, the number 2 is also the basis of the Binary
which is not necessarily evil in all its combinations. Alternately
H IG H HAGIC
man thinks and acts according to this law, and if by his will he puts
it in harmony he remains always at an equal distance from hesitation
and from rashness. The Binary Law, says P. Jagot, rules the astral
sign-manual of man in the following m anner:—Whether dealing with
physiognomy, the hand or handwriting, they can be considered from
two angles—length and breadth. Thelengths denote statics, thought,
quality, fulness. The breadths denote dynamics, action, quantity,
value. And the application of this principle to Physiognomony,
Chiromancy and Graphology gives us information as to the relation
between the qualities of thought and the faculties for action.
There are very many other applications of the Binary which every
one will be able to find for himself.
8. This number has something sacred in it. The old dogma of
the Trinity common to so many religions and cosmogonies, so many
things in life and in legend, in history and in nature are in threes, such
as Birth, Life and D eath; the three states of m atter; the three phases
of each event (start, middle and end); the three kingdoms of N ature;
the three ages of life (youth, middle age, old age); the three fundamental
colours, etc. Remember also that Christ asked three times of Peter
if he loved Him, and that He fell three times on the road to Golgotha;
th at the Church has divided the world beyond into three dwellings,
Heaven, Hell and Purgatory, that the Angelus is rung three times,
and that it teaches three theological virtues. Look at Mythology.
There are three Graces, three Fates, three Harpies, three Gorgons,
three Furies. Occultism finally shows us (we leave aside so many
other threes) three parts in M an; we have already mentioned them,
the physical body, the astral body and the mental body. Three also
represents the triangle (the three masonic points), it is the number of
the most beautifully symbolical colours of the British flag (blue, the
colour of the sky, white the colour of water, red the colour of fire.
Now are not the three noble elements of nature in fact air, water and
fire ?) And how much could not be said about the Ternary in
Physiognomony (vegetativeness, sensitiveness, intellect, corresponding
to the lower part, the middle part and the upper part of the face.)
But we have given enough instances.
4. Multiple of two (double Binary). Looked at from a certain
angle it foretells disputes and battles just like 2. However various
conceptions are connected with the quaternary, such as the four
elements, the four cardinal points, the four Evangelists, the four
temperaments according to Hippocrates, Polti, Gary de Lacroze,
etc. To the Kabbalists it is also the Cross, the Sphinx, the Cube,
etc.
5. Lucky number, says Fraya, although Saint-Martin thinks it
full of falseness and lies. I t foretells success in affairs of the heart.
406 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
I t is the number of the vowels which together make the name of God
(a, e, i, o, u, or by anagram, i, e, o, u, a :—Jeoua, Jeova, Jehovah).
The Church recommends 5 acts before Communion (acts of faith,
of love, of humility, of desire and of hope), and recognises 5 sacramental
principles (sign of the Cross, Holy Water, Blessed Bread, Kiss of Peace,
Benediction of the Priest).
In the Kabbala 5 is the Pentagram, the flaming star of the Gnostics.
I t is the number of Jesus (5 letters).
There are 5 senses (hearing, smell, touch, taste, sight), 5 Angers
of the hand, 5 bones in the metacarpus, 5 in the metatarsus, 5 making
the cranial casing. There are 5 parts of the world. There are also
5 divisions in accountancy (goods, cash, bills payable, bills receivable,
profit and loss) and 5 acts in the classic drama. The Law of Five
applies also to topological Physiognomony.
We also notice, from the point of view of luck at gaming, which
always has something mysterious and kabbalistic in it, that in “ Petits
Chevaux ” on a board of 9 figures, the Agure 5 is called “ the House
flgure,” because it protects the Casino against the gamblers on the strips
(one being numbered 1, 8, 6, 8, and the other 2, 4, 7, 9), where the
gamblers stand an equal chance. Without the 5 the chances would
e equal all round, but in order to beat the public the Casino must
have more chances than the gamblers. By the aid of this protecting
5, the gambler has only a 4 .9th chance of winning against a 5. 9th chance
of losing.
6. This is the Hexagram (see appendix), the double triangle of
heaven (point upward) and earth (point downward). I t is the pentade
of Solomon, the axiom engraved on the Emerald Tablet, the number
of Liberty and of Work (Papus).
7. One of the most remarkable flgures from the point of view of
Mystical mathematics. We were speaking of gaming. How many
people begin with 7. Ask anyone to think of a Agure between 1 and
10—in most cases he will think of 7. Why ? I t is the figure offate
personifled.
I t abounds in Religion and Occultism, in the Bible, legend and
history. There are 7 Sacraments, 7 capital sins, 7 penitential psalms,
and in the story of the Blessed Virgin, 7 sorrows, 7 joys and 7 glories.
The Church teaches us that there are 7 capital virtues (humility, charity,
chastity, altruism, temperance, gentleness and zeal) and 7 gifts of
the Spirit (wisdom, intelligence, counsel, strength, science, piety,
fear of God). The Apocalypse speaks of 7 Churches, 7 spirits pub
lishing the praises of God, 7 seals of the Book of Prophets, 7 ministering
angels, of 7 plagues, 7 branches of the symbolical candlestick, 7 lamps,
7 stars, etc. In the life of Christ we note 7 words spoken on the Cross,
7 loaves in the basket at the feeding of the 5,000. God the Father,
H IG H MAGIC 407
408
having created the world, rested on the 7th day, whence it follows
th at there are 7 days of the week. There are 7 weeks between Easter
and Whitsun. The Bible adds its quota of 7 fat kine and 7 lean kine
in the dream of Pharaoh, the number of messianic years foretold by
Daniel is a multiple of 7, the sacrifice of 7 calves and 7 sheep offered
by the friends ofJob, the gift of7 beasts made by Abraham to Abimelech,
the army of Joshua went 7 times round the town of Jericho before its
walls fell. The theologians of the Middle Ages in counting up the
blessings of the elect in Paradise found 7 for the body (health, beauty,
agility, liberty, pleasure, strength and long life) and 7 for the soul
(concord, honour, power, security, joy, wisdom, friendship). Finally
Theosophy teaches that Man is made of 7 principles of which we have
given tne Hindu names previously.
This is not all. Let us look through some books dealing with
Antiquity. We have 7 wonders of the world (the Pyramids, the
Hanging Gardens of Semiramis in Babylon, the Statue of Jupiter
at Olympia, the Temple of Diana at Ephesus, the Colossus of Rhodes,
the Mausoleum at Helicarnassus, the Pharos at Alexandria). We have
the 7 Sages of Greece (Thales, Solon, Chilo, Pittacus, Bias, Cleobolos,
Periander), and the 7 Chiefs before Thebes, the 7 heads of the Lemian
Hydra, the 7 hills on which Rome is built. (The Palatine, the
Aventine, the Capitol, the Coelius, the Viminal, the Esquilin, the
Janiculus).
Is it necessary to mention further the 7 colours of the rainbow, the
7 notes in music, etc.
The figure 7, we are told by Fraya, means intelligence, strength,
extraordinary adventures. In playing, put on 7. When you buy a
lottery ticket, see that it contains the figure 7. You smile ? Well,
look at any drawing you like. Here we have the drawing of September,
1928. I t is full of sevens:—
Town of Pans 1898—No. 552,307 wins Frs. 100,000.
Town of Paris 1912—No. 436,187 wins Fra. 100,000.
Town of Paris 1921 Nos. 1,637,923 and 356,927 each win Fra. 100,000.
Credit National 1919—No.5,852,077 wins 1,000,000 and No. 4,077,846 wins
500,000.
Credit National 1921—No. 3,410,027 wins 500,000 fra.
Foncigres 1885—No. 94,877 wins 100,000 fra.
8, 10, 11, 12.—The double quaternary: 8 means checks, mourning,
sorrows.
10 from the point of view of luck is dull and anyhow. But in the
Kabbala it is the perfect number. I t is the Decade, considered under
its Hebrew name of Sephiroth, feminine plural of sephar or sepher
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
which means number and from which comes the English word Cipher.
There are ten sephiroth or various emanations:—
H IG H MAGIC 409
1. Kether
2. Chokmah
3. Binah
4. Chesed
5. Geburah
6. Tiphereth
7. Netzah .
8. Hod
9. Tesod
10. Malknth
The Crown ..
Wisdom
Intellect
Mercy
Severity
Beanty
Victory
Splendour ..
Foundation
The Kingdom.
Creative Trinity (Life,
Form, Light).
The created Universe
(having their analogy
in the seven planets of
Astrology).
12 is another son of 2 (2 x 6). It is evil, although there were 12
good Apostles round Christ, and there are 12 months, hence 12 signs
of the Zodiac.
11 is grotesque, lopsided. A line of 11 syllables has no possible
cesura, no music. Dreaming of the figure 11 means a worry, a loss
of money.
12 in the Kabbala is the number of the Philosopher's Stone.
Before passing to the 9, let us give this ternary key to numbers
according to Pierre P iobb:—
1st Ternary:—
1 Unity ..................................The Being.
2 =1 + 1* The B in a ry ...................................Union.
3 = 2 + 1 . The Ternary ............................Generation.
2nd Ternary:—
4 = 2 + 2 . The Quaternary ........................Law.
5 = 2 + 3 . The Quinquenary........................Science.
6 = 3 + 3. The double Ternary Progress.
3rd Ternary:—
7 = 4 + 3. The Septenary ........................Truth.
8 = 4 + 4. The double Quaternary Fate.
9 = 4 + 5- The triple Ternary............................Knowledge.
The ternary key, adds the learned author of the Formulary of
High Magic, is, if not the only, a t least the easiest of numerical keys
ana sufficient for most magical proceedings.
9. Now we come to 9 which is an excellent figure. I t seems th at
it brings prizes in lotteries. We see in Mythology 9 Muses (Cleo,
Melpomene, Thalia, Euterpe, Terpsichore, Erato, Urania, Polyhymnia,
410
Calliope); in Greece 9 Archontes; in the Christian heaven 9 Choirs
of Angels (seraphim, cherubim, powers, dominions, archangels, angels,
virtues, thrones, principalities), and a corresponding hierarchy among
the devils in H ell. Tne Church has Novenas. A woman carries for
nine months the fruit of her womb. After H is death Christ appeared
9 tim es to H is disciples.
The following arithmetical curiosities are pointed out to us:
9 x 2 = 18 and 9 X 9 = 81. 9 X 8 = 27 and 9 X 8 = 72. 9 X 4
= 86 and 9 X 7 = 68. 9 x 5 = 45 and 9 X 6 = 54. Now these
results of m ultiplication show in pairs the same figures 1 and 8, 2 and 7,
8 and 6, 4 and 5, all adding to 9.
18. Here we have the most amazing contradictions. Some look
upon it as a figure of curse, others as a figure of blessing. Some will
never travel on the 18th, nor sit down 18 a t table, fearing in the one
case an accident, in the other the death of a guest within the year.
Christ was betrayed, they say, by Judas, the 18th at table at the Last
Supper. And they cjuote facts, forgetting no doubt all the 18ths of
the month (even falling on a Friday), when nothing happened to any
body, for by no means all meals at which there are 18 entail an early
death, nor do all journeys on the 18th bring a catastrophe. Others
say that the 18th is lucky for them. The proper conclusion is th at
18 is not necessarily an unlucky number. I t has possibly a lucky or
unlucky influence depending on the individual. In any case it foretells
something unusual.
And now let us look at H istory with its coincidences of which
Victor Hugo thought so m uch:—1
1. The Due de Berry (son of Charles X), the husband of a foreign
Princess, is murdered by Louvel on the 18th February, 1820 (the month
of the fall of Louis-Philippe) and he abdicates in favour of his grandson
aged 10, but he is told that it is too late. The Revolution of 1880 lasts
8 days. Charles X lost his throne at the age of 74 and went to England
where he died in exile.
2. The Due d’Orleans (son of Louis-Philippe), the husband of a
foreign Princess, dies a violent death on the 18th February, 1852 (the
month of the fall of Louis-Philippe) and he abdicates in favour o f his
grandson aged 10, but he is told that it is too late. The Revolution
of 1848 lasts 8 days. Louis-Philippe lost his throne at the age of 74
and went to England, where he died in exile.
Are not all these parallels of misfortune grotesque ?
Christopher Columbus venerated Friday. Well, had he not noticed
th at it was on a Friday (8rd August, 1492) th at he left the Harbour
of Palos with his 8 boats to go to India by the sea route, being sure
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
th at the earth was round ? I t was on a Friday th a t he saw birds, the
first sign of an inhabited land. I t was on a Friday (12th October,
1492) th at after 70 days of sailing he landed, proud and happy, on
the small island of Lucayas, thus setting his foot on American soil.
I t was on a Friday (17th May, 1492) that he made his triumphant
entry into Barcelona. I t was on a Friday (80th November) th a t he
planted a Cross a t Puerto Santo. I t was on a Friday (4th January)
at sunset th at he set sail for Spain. I t was on a Friday th a t he entered
full of glory into Palos.
As we are restoring Friday to honour,—that Friday which is some
tim es looked upon as an unlucky day, quite wrongly so since it is the
day of Venus, and is generally chosen for great festivities (it is true
that Christ died on a Friday and that the Church forbids its faithful
to eat m eat on that day—Christ and Venus at opposite poles),— let us
remem ber:—
That it was on a Friday (7th September, 1565) th at the oldest
town in the United States, St. Augustine, was founded by Melenden;
on a Friday (10th October, 1620) that the first English Emigrants
landed a t Princetown; on a Friday (17th November, 1777) that in
the War of Independence the town of Saratoga surrendered, as also
(19th October, 1781) the town of Yorktown; on a Friday (26th Feb
ruary, 1782) th at Washington was born (notice that 26 = 18 X 2,
and that 1 + 7 + 8 + 2 = 18); on a Friday that the newly constituted
Republic of the United States signed its treaty of alliance with the
Comte de Vergenues, the minister of Louis XVI.
As will be seen, our sister State beyond the Atlantic has no cause
to complain of the much maligned Friday.
Returning to the figure 18, let us see what was the opinion of some
strong minds not much given to superstition.
Victor Hugo believed in the evil influence of this number. His
note books are full of observations on the subject. When in 1871 he
started for the National Assembly at Bordeaux, he notes th at he and
his friends left Paris on the 18th February, that in the saloon car in
which they travelled they were 18, including Louis Blanc, th at the
lodgings reserved for them in Bordeaux were at No. 18 rue Saint Maur.
The night of the 18th March the poet could not sleep, be was thinking
of numbers, the dream of Pythagoras. He thought of all the curious
coincidences of 18 since the month of January, and remembered that
in a few hours he was to leave No. 18 rue Saint Maur.
On the evening of the same day he was sought out at the restaurant
Lanta where he was to dine with some friends, his daughter-in-law,
Alice, and his two grandchildren Georges and Jeanne. They were
waiting for Charles Hugo.
H IG H MAGIC 411
412
Someone asked for Victor Hugo. I t was the proprietor of his rooms,
M. Porte. Quite briefly he said to him : “ Sir, be strong, M. Charles..
“ Well ? ” “ He is dead.”
This was on 18th March, 1871.
Gaston Dcrys has collected the following coincidences in connection
with the number 18 from the lives of various writers:—
_“ On the 18th December, 1922, Henri B£raud received the Goncourt
Prize. At that time he had written 18 books. He lived at No. 67
(6 + 7 = 18) rue Rochechouart, telephone No. 5498.
“ Ernest La Jeunesse noticed that on the death of Oscar Wilde
18 persons in a suburban dormitory took off their hats before a coffin
bearing the number 18.”
Gaston Derys also points out that the Cafe Anglais, where there
were often 18 at table, was situate both at No. 18 Boulevard des
Anglais and No. 18 rue Marivaux. It closed its doors on the 81 (18
reversed) March of the year 1918, and it was in the thirteenth week
of the same year that the house in which it was situate fell a prey to
the pick of the housebreakers.
‘‘ It was on a Friday the 18th that Annunzio in 1907 met with
an accident in which he nearly lost an eye. The carriage which he
took was numbered 13. The driver asked for 18 lire. On returning
home he found 18 letters. That evening at table there were 18 guests.
‘‘ It was also on a 18th (August, 1922) that he had such a dangerous
fall.
“ This explains the fact that Annunzio, in sending one of his books
to a friend, dated the dedication ‘ Arcachon, the 2nd January 1912 4- 1,*
and th at in his manuscripts the page 18 is numbered 12a.
“ Musset, who dreaded both Friday and 18, was worried because
his journey with George Sand began on a 18th.
“ Richard Wagner, whose name and personal name consist together of
18 letters, was bom in 1818, died on 18th February, 1888, saw TannhSuser
produced for the first time in Paris on 18th March 1861, where it was
repeated on 18th May, 1895.
“ Paul Deschanel, bom on the 18th, was married on Friday the
18th, and it was on a 18th that the Chamber made him a candidate
for the Presidency. His name and personal name consist of 18 letters.
“ Henry Kistemaekers whose name consists of 13 letters, was
born on 18th October, got his degree in Letters on a 18th, had Martha
accepted on a 18th, and its dress rehearsal was on a 18th. The first
night of La Blessure in Paris was also on a 18th, as well as its sub
sequent production at Brussels. The dress rehearsal of L'Instinct
ana the first night of La Rivale took place on a 18th, L'Embuscade
was accepted on a 18th, and he was decorated with the Legion of
Honour, as usual, on a 13th.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
“ Edmond Rostand—18 letters—was the 18th occupant of seat
No. 18 at the Academy."
14, Curious coincidences have also been observed in connection
with the figure 14.
I t certainly played a surprising part in the life of Louis XIV, who,
the 14th of the name, attained his majority at the age of 14, succeeded
to the Throne on a 14th May, saw his predecessor Louis X III die in
1648 (1 + 6 + 4 + 8 = 14), had his life saved by Turenne at Blindeau
in 1652 (1 + 6 + 5 + 2 = 14), began his personal reign in 1661 ( 1 + 6
+ 6 + 1 = 14), signed the Treaty of Dover with England in 1670
( 1 + 6 + 7 = 14), died in 1715 (1 + 7 + 1 + 5 = 14) at the age of
77 (7 + 7 = 14).
This number is also predominant in the life of Henri IV of France,
whose name Henri de Bourbon (or Henri dc Navarre) has 14 letters,
who was bom on the 14th December, 1558 (1 + 5 + 5 + 8 = 14)
or say 14 centuries and 14 decades after Christ, and died on a 14th
of May after having reigned three times 14 years and having lived
4 times 14 years and 14 weeks and 8 times 14 days. Further Jean
Chatel, who tried to murder him, wounded him 14 hours after the
entrance of the Queen into Saint Denis, she herself having been born
on a 14th May. As to Ravaillac, he was executed 14 days after the
murder of his King, which murder was committed on the 14th May,
1610 (115 x 14 = 1610) in the Rue de la Ferronnerie, the widening
of which was ordered by an Edict promulgated on the 14th May, 1544
( 1 + 5 + 4 + 4 = 14), that is 4 times 14 years before the event. Finally
it was on the 14th March, 1590, th at the battle of Ivry was won. W hat
coincidences! And also what ingenious calculations.
From 14 onward. From 14 on, the peculiarities of numbers decrease.
B ut we may point o u t:—
15, the symbol of spiritual ascents (the 15th day of the 7th month
was venerated).
16, said to be lucky by Pythagoras (perfect square).
18 sounds bad to theologians on account of the captivity of Israel
under Egon, King of Moab (18 years), and to Kabbalists who call it
the son of error and of superstition.
19 is lucky because consisting of two figures (1 and 9) which are
both lucky.
So also 21 (8 times 7) the number of divinations. Remember
the 21 guns of celebrations, obvious reminder of old beliefs.
22 is good. There arc 22 Hebrew letters and 22 books in the
Old Testament.
28, the Lunar number.
80, Christ began His miracles at the age of 80. He was sold for
80 pence.
HI GH MAGIC 413
As to the number 40, it is more important and reminds u s :—
That the Jews wandered for 40 years in the wilderness before
entering into the Promised Land.
That Moses remained 40 days on Mount Sinai, and Elijah 40 days
in solitude.
That Christ fasted for 40 days in the desert, preached for 40 months,
and remained for 40 hours in the tomb.
That Jerusalem was destroyed by the Romans 40 years after the
Ascension of Christ.
50, the sign of the remission of sins. The number of the Holy
Ghost. The Law was given to Moses on Sinai 50 days after the
Exodus from Egypt. The Holy Ghost descended on the Apostles 50
days after the Resurrection.
The number 60 was sacred amongst the Egyptians.
100. Perfection. 1,000. Absolute Perfection, the cube of the
figure 10.
W e could go on for ever with curiosities relating to numbers.
Let us conclude with the following:—
1. Correspondences, from the point of view of figures, between
the reigns of Louis IX and Louis XVI, to whom his Confessor said
at the foot of the scaffold, “ Son of Saint-Louis, ascend to Heaven 1”
—taking as basis the figure 589 which represents the number of years
elapsed between the births of these two Kings. If this number is
added to the date of some important event in the life of the former,
a similar important event will be found in the life of the latter. For
instance:—
414 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Birth of Saint Loais (23rdA p ril)...................... 1215
539
Birth of Louis XVI (23rdAugust) 1754
Birth of Isabella, sister of Saint Louis 1225
539
Birth of Isabella, sister of Louis XVI 1764
Death of the father of Saint Louis 1226
539
Death of the Dauphin, father of Louis XVI 1765
BeginningoftheminorityofSaintLouisasKing .. 1226
539
BeginningoftheminorityofLouisXVI asDauphin 1765
415
ArmisticesignedbetweenthevictoriousSaintLouisand HenryHI
of England .. ..................................................... 1243
539
Treaty signed.between the victorious Louis XVI and George III
of England ............................................................... 1782
An Eastern Prince visits Saint Louis, being anxious to become a
Christian .............................................................. 1249
539
An Eastern Prince sends an ambassador to Louis XVI for the
same p urpose.............................................................. 1788
Defeat of Saint Louis, abandoned by all and taken prisoner at
Mansourah .............................................................. 1250
539
Emigration of the Princes. Louis XVI abandoned by all and
taken prisoner by the people in October ...................... 1789
Shepherd Rising—an apostate priest is le a d e r...................... 1250
539
Jacobin Rising—an apostate priest offers his Church to the
P e o p le ......................................................................... 1789
2. Observation made by Chateaubriand:—
Death of Charlemagne—31st March, 81&
End of Napoleon’s power—31st March, 1814.
1,000 years to the day.
8. A table has been drawn up, according to tradition, of lucky
and unlucky days, which shew s:—
Avoid when transacting business the following d avs:—
2, 5, 11, 18, 15, 18, 80.
Prefer the follow ing:—
1, 8, 7, 9, 10, 12, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, 27, 28.I
l
l
I ll
Some Kabbalistic Practices
W e have seen the serious side of the Kabbala, and another side
which at first glance is less so. To the latter we will add various
practices also based on the mysterious influence of numbers.
A. The Principal Dates of Life
In order to obtain these, add the figures of the year in the way
hown in the following example.
H IG H HAGIC
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Assume a birth in 1888. Draw up the following tables:—
1888 1913 1927 1946 1966
1 1 1 1 1
8 9 9 9 9
8 1 2 4 6
8 3 7 6 6
1913 1927 1946 1966 1988
The dates given by the totals will bring important events.
Or rather they denote great periods of changes in accordance with
a series of numbers arranged in a certain order. B ut there are other
numerical series, and the first great event of any particular class may
be taken as a starting point, such as First Communipn, first love,
first artistic, financial or other success, and thus religious, love, artistic,
or financial sequences may be drawn up.
B . M o d e m K a b b a lisiic T a b le
A B G D E C V P Th
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
1 &J K L M N X O H Q
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 280 90
R 200 280 T U ForPh Ch Y W Z
ICO 8 H 300 400 500 600 700 800 7000
This table, it is said, enables the result of a difference, a lawsuit,
a duel, any rivalry to be known at once and beforehand. Placing
the numbers corresponding to the value of the letters of the name
of the two parties m a column, it is sufficient to add them in order
to know the victor.
F 500
A
L
1
30
D 4 P
0
8
70
L 30 0 70 I 10
1* O
I 10 U 400 N 50 A 1
E
R
5
100
M 40 C
A
6
1 M 40
E 5 E 5 R 100
8 100
8 200 R 100 E 5
881 (won) 619 250(won) 149
H IG H MAGIC 41T
w 800 H 280
I 10 U 400
L 30 G 3
S 200 H 280
0 70 E 5
N 50 S 100
1160(won) 1068
C 6
D 4 L 30
E 5 E 5
S 200 M 40
C 6 E 5
H 280 N 50
A 1 C 6
N 50 E 5
E 5 A 1
L 30 U 400
581 (won) 548
C. The Hand of Fatima
The Hand of Fathma (or Fatima) was,
it seems, discovered by Cagliostro, in the
Castle of Saint Leon where he died in
1705, in an old manuscript which recalled
its ancient use in the East and gave its
double oracle as follows:—
1. The Key of Individual Numbers for
the purpose of telling the temperament of
a person.
2. The Key of the Double Zodiac for
the purpose of foretelling the future.
The method of using it is as follows:—1
1. In order to know the character, abil
ities, temperament of a person, take each
of the letters of the name and personal
name and put in their place the relative
numbers found in the Hand of Fatima.
Add these up. Thus you will find the indi
vidual number of the person.
2. In order to know the meaning of this
number, consult the Table of the Hand, leaving out thousands and
splitting up the remaining number into hundreds and units if the whole
is not on the table.
8. To find if you will be victorious in a coming struggle, against
a rival (in love, in business, etc.), write your Christian name and that
of the rival, and find the sum which each makes according to the cipher
key of the Double Zodiac. Divide each sum by 9 and find the remaining
number in the columns of the special table. You will then know which
will win.
418 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Table, for the Hand o f Fatima, o f Numerical Victories
1 beats 3, 2, 7, 9.
2 beats 1, 4, 6, 8.
3 beats 2, 5,7, 9.
4 beats 1, 3, 6, 8.
5 beats 2, 4, 7, 9.
6 beats 1, 3, 5, 7.
7 beats 2, 4, 6, 8.
8 beats 1, 3, 5, 7.
9 beats 2, 4, 6, 8.
(according to Captain Franlac).
Table o f Numerical Correspondences for the Hand o f Fatima.
1. Passion, ambition, ardour.
2. Destruction, death, catastrophe.
8. Mysticism, dreaming, ethereal love.
4. Daring, wisdom, power.
5. Happiness, wealth, marriage.
€. Perfection, work.
7. Purity of feeling, contemplation.
8. Love of justice, honesty.
9. Imperfections, sorrows, pains,
attack.
10. Fulfilment, right, future happiness.
11. Numerous faults, difficult success.
12. Brings luck, fortunate omen.
13. Barefaced cynicism.
14. Devotion, even sacrifice.
15. Cult of the beautiful and the ideal
16. Felicity, voluptuousness, love.
17. Flighty inconstancy.
18. Incorrigible obstinacy.
19. Null (as 29, 39, and 49).
20. Sadness, sternness.
21. Brutality, violence.
22. Invention, prudence, mystery.
24. Indifference, egoism.
25. Intelligence, many children.
26. Likes to be useful.
27. Courage and firmness.
28. Favours, tenderness, love.
29. Null (as 19, 39 and 49).
30. Marriage, fame.
31. Ambition and glory.
32. Hymen, chastity.
33. Exemplary behaviour.
34. Suffering.
35. Physical and moral health.
36. Great genius, vast conceptions.
37. Gentle virtues, conjugal love.
38. Imperfection, avarice, envy.
39. Null (as 19, 29, 49).
40. Festivities, pleasures.
41'. Withoutmoralorphysicalworth.
42. Journeys, unhappy and short life.
43. Religious ceremonies, apoatolate.
44. Power, pomp, honour.
45. Ideas, numerous children.
46. Country life, abundance, fertility.
47. Longand happylife withoutcares.
48. Law Courts, judgment, ruin.
49. Null (as 19, 29 and 39).
50. Prison, then liberty, happiness.
60. Widowhood.
70. Love of science.
73. Loves nature and simplicity.
75. Sensitiveness, affection, charity.
77. Repentance, final grace.
80. Illness, cure, long life.
81. Arts, intellectual culture.
90. No foresight, affliction.
100. Favours, honour, glory.
120. Good husband, keen patriot.
150. Flattery, hypocrisy.
200. Fatal indecision.
215. Constant calamity.
300. Philosophical mind.
313. Clairvoyance, lucidity.
350. Naivety, vain hope for justice.
360. Sociability, many talents.
365. Calculation, self-interest, egoism.
400. Art, love, quick temper.
490. Cloister, fervour, mystery.
500. Election, honour, statue.
600. Victim of envy, success, then
catastrophe.
666. Underhand plotting, social down
fall.
700. Strength, vigour, health.
HI GH MAGIC 419
800. Dominion, glory, exile.
900. Brave soldier, cross, decorations.
1000. Ambition crowned.
1095. Victim of persecution, martyrdom.
1260. Torments, consolation in old age.
1390. Physical weakness, moral energy.
E xam ple:—
A man of the name of Jean (Barret) wants to consult the hand of
Fatim a to know himself, and to find out if in his love for Miss X he
will beat his rival Louis. Let us carry out the above processes:—
J 600 B 2
E 5 A 1
A 1 R 80
N 40 R 80
E 5
T 100
646 268
Total 646 + 268 — 914 (individual number).
This number exceeds 100 and is made up of
900 — Brave and glorious soldier.
14 — Devoted even to sacrifice.
Translation:—J. Barret is combative, devoted, brave, and will
be rewarded.
L 10 J 20
0 8 E 22
u 2 A 13
1 20 N 13
s 9
49 68
49+ 9 — 5 leaving 4. Now 5 beats 4 (since 4only
68+9 = 7 leaving 5. beats 1, 3, 6, 8.)
Therefore Jean will beat Louis, which is only
natural having regard to his character.I
V
IV
The Taroc, the Supreme Symbol
The Taroc is sim ply the ancient Occult Science in Brief. It is its
synthetic summing up. It is used, as we have seen, in the shape of
playing cards for the purpose of foretelling the future. But for the
Hermetic philosopher, it is above all a subject for deep m editation.
The Taroc in fact, wc are told by Eudes Picard (in his Synthetic
and Practical M anual o f the Taroc) reveals the world of Ideas and
Principles, and enables us to grasp the laws of the evolution of pheno
mena. A t first sight it amazes by its grotesque images and seems
merely strange. Then our surprise, perhaps our amusement, is trans
formed, and the intelligent man guesses that he is in the presence of a
monument of human thought, that behind these leaves of childish
appearance something more than imagination is hidden. H e looks
at them with more care, and little by little the mystery becomes clear.
The Pentacle card becomes a mirror in which a complete spiritual
construction is reflected.
This need for sim plification of Universal Knowledge by a kind of
initiatory key is so constant among all nations that it is found1 in
various forms not only in Egypt (the Egyptian Taroc is the best known)
but also among the Indians where it is represented by a game of Chess
called Tchaturanga composed of four series (elephants, chariots, horses,
E
awns) which shows how much it is derived from the Taroc (it will
e remembered that Taroc also has four groups of figures); amongst
the moslems of India by the Gkendftgeh composed of 8 series (of 12
cards each) divided into two sections, the superior (crowns, moons,
swords, slaves) and the inferior (harps, suns, diplomas, packs) thus
showing its derivation; amongst the Chinese (see description in the
book by Count de Gebelin, ThePrimitive World) ; amongst the Germans,
(where the four groups are hearts, bells, leaves and acorns); amongst
the Gypsies (this is the one explained by Papus and stated by him
to be the oldest of all). At present there are a fairly large number,
the best known of which are the Taroc of Etteilla (commented upon
by Elie A lta1 who considers it the best reconstruction of the Egyptian
Taroc according to the Book ofThat and which is largely sold), the Taroc
of Watillaux, the Italian Taroc, the Besanpon, the Marseilles Taroc
(the latter three very good according to Papus), finally the Taroc of
Oswald W irth, constructed in accordance with the principles enunciated
by the great occultist Eliphas L4vi, its symbolism being apparently
strictly in conformity with the primitive symbolical Taroc.
But what is this last? W hat is the true origin of the Taroc?
I t is confused and uncertain. Oswald Wirth dates our knowledge of
it back to the days of Charles VI of France and of playing cards, but
we do not know where the draftsman found his models which correspond
so truly to ancient Wisdom. To-day there is a belief that we nave
here a collective work which goes back to very distant times and is
consecrated by a Tradition which is preserved by the Gipsies.
This is the opinion of E. Picard:—“ The ideas contained in it,”
he says, “ are universal and immutable. They go back to the first
needs of the observer tormented by the desire to record by form,
number and symbol his dreams concerning the universal mechanism.
Like the Iliad it had its Bards who transmitted to us without comment
a kind of celestial epic. One characteristic feature of the Taroc is
to see how little in the course of the centuries it has fundamentally
changed. Any modifications are merely details of design and betoken
only the fancy of the artist. This is proved by an examination of the
collection of Taroc cards in the National Library. We may therefore
1 According to Papus, see his Gypsy Tone.
• See his Gypsy Taroe. Etteilla is on anagram for Ailietto, the real name of this person,
a barber by trade, who one day began to study tho Taroc and devoted himself to it for thirty
yean. Though totally unprepared for this occult task, he brought to it a great intuition, and
bis researches have been of much use to bis successors. He lived at the time of the French
Revolution.
420 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
say th at the Taroc has come down to us deformed rather than modified.
I t is therefore to its esoteric and symbolic side th at we must give our
attention and direct our research.” In order to understand it
thoroughly, it is therefore necessary to have some general knowledge
of the Kabbala and of Astrology.
Also some knowledge of tne esoterism of Numbers.
This knowledge would take us far into the domain of demonstration,
and we can only give its elements, according to Papus and A lta who
have studied it closely.
According to Papus, there is said to exist a sacred word which
contains the key to ail science, the first word of the oral Hebrew kab-
balistic tradition,1 the word which shines in the centre of the darning
triangle of the 83rd masonic degree of the Scottish Rite, the word which,
used in the Sepher BereschU (the Genesis of Moses), indicates the God*
head, and the elements of which describe the attributes of the latter.
The word consists of four Jewish letters:—iod, which represents the
Essence, the Principle, the Unity of Self, the End, the Male, the A ctive;
hi, which represents the reaction of the Non-Self on the Ego, therefore
the commencement of the division of the Unit, the Binary, tne Feminine,
the Passive, the Substance; van, which is the relation existing between
the self and the non-self; h i repeated, th at is to say, outside the
primordial Trinary, the transition to everything which follows.
This curious synthesis is therefore Iod-H£-Vau-H£, which numerically
is represented by 10, 5, 6, 5=26—10 representing the Principle of aU
(which is 1) allied to the Nothing (which is 0); 5 being 10 divided by
2 so that this number 10 may be opposed to itself; 6 being 1 and 5,
th at is to say the relation of the self and the non-self. It will also
be observed th at h i is in fact the 5th letter of the Jewish alphabet,
iod the 10th letter and vau the 6th.*
W ithout lingering over the operations called theosophic reduction
and addition, which explain why, kabbalistically, all numbers may be
reduced to one of the nine ciphers, let us give at once the curious table
which is found in the Formulary o f High Magic of Pierre Piobb and
which shows the correspondences between Astrology, Numerals, the
Leaves of the Taroc and their symbols and the 22 letters of the Hebrew
alphabet, of which we do not give the shape, but merely their English
pronunciation and meaning.
1 According to Fabre d’Olivet, the word Kabbala, meaning Tradition, means, that which
is received, which comes from elsewhere, which is passed on from band to hand.
* Those four letters also correspond to the four symbols of the Taroc. Here is the table,
according to Papua:—
Iod, Rod. The Iod men are the Nobility of Intellect (inventors and producers). Creation.
H i, Cup. The Hi men are the Depositories of Truth (scholars, judges, etc.) Reception.
Vau, Sword. The Van men are the Keepers and Defenders of the above. Transformation.
H i (second), Penny. The men of the second Hi are the People. Transition.
H IG H MAGIC 421
422 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
0
.o
O
S
ja
o.
<
1
■
8
n
s>
■
a
a
I
I
sjjfIsa
j =
5 g 8 s'
g>2*—
o g
-*
0
! i « n
It »°
“ J S4 e f
jj | S.o S'«o
"gig si
m r *
-•» a ■
U
- 5
4
T
3
s
_ . _ 5 .lt
| 2 * | H
• s J M s f
fc « |* I s.
? 4 r U .o t
x
>
s
*
a
ac-2
<
25*38^sJsl'a
afc*1S
it §*•§i §1
§ B-a S-a’i 8 £.s * 3 II!
.c S^a u^a > o 3 ^ 3 5 -St s
^ H C H g C g i S s ^ g -
............ l * f l t - S|-g S
« 0 g.e g-3 g
o o i.“ E a 5
5 5 a-SH Sl
423
A complete study of the Taroc would require a fat volum e, especially
as so many books have been written about it, each showing slight
differences of interpretation, according to the particular study and the
turn of mind of the writer. We wifi merely sum up, in accordance
with three well known books, those of Papus, Elie Alta and Eudes
Picard, the meaning of the leaves or arcana in so far as concerns the
essential part remaining in the diversity of these distinguished occultists.
M ajor Leaves {or Major Arcana)
First of all let us say that the whole of these 22 leaves refer to the
Principles, the Causes, and connect the sidereal world, the Number,
the Letter, the evolution of Man. Each is presented under a triple
aspect, symbolical, numerical (and alphabetical) and astrological.
Number and Letter have their correspondence in the Hebrew alphabet,
as we have seen. The name of the leaf gives its symbol, the table below
shows its astral character. Let us see wnat each of these pictures has to
say to us. We should add that the pictures often vary slightly in detail.
1. The Juggler. This is the Questioner. It is Man, a young man,
with curly hair, smiling. W hat seems to be his hat is m reality a-
halo like a horizontal 8, the sign of universal life. He is standing on
the ground where a leaf symbolises Nature. Before him is a table
on which we see three of the symbols of the T aroc:—a sword (struggle),
pence (gains), a cup (passion). In his hand is the round of the Magician,
of the spiritual conjurer. This hand is raised towards the sky and its
nobilities, whereas the other droops towards the earth and its pleasures.
The number characterising this first leaf is 1. It is the Principle
of U nity. Its letter is the aleph which hieroglyphically represents
Man, the Microcosm. Its astrological meaning is the Sun, its psycholo
gical meaning W ill-power. The Juggler is the man who wants to
create, like God, on the plane which is assigned to him.
W e could, with Papus, with Ldvi, with Alta and others, go more
deeply into possible explanations of this picture and others. Every
commentator has attem pted it. Let us not forget that the Taroc
is a marvellous incentive to thought. Everyone therefore has the
right to extract his own teaching from each arcanum, provided he
remains within the general and traditional scope. H aving said this,
we will now more briefly give a sketch of the remaining 21 major leaves
or arcana.
2. The Popess. The wife of the Questioner, sitting between tw o
columns, a book in her lap, and slightly covered by her veil. A
tiara on her head—Juno, Isis, etc. Great Priestess with the attributes
of science and the priesthood. Here we have the sanctuary (columns)
of the Gnosis, the Kabbala, the Binary. For 2 is the fatidic number
H IG H MAGIC
424 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
T w e n t y -t w o Ma j o r Le a v e s .
Ak c a s a o f Ta h o c .
H I G H M A G I C 425
of opposition, of duality, the bringcr of evil. The letter of the leaf
is the second of the alphabet, the beth which has as its symbol the
mouth, the sacred dwelling of the Word, whence came Teaching, the
Law, Occult Knowledge. Number and letter are also the sign of the
Moon, the reflection of the Sun as Woman is the reflection of Man.
I t also reminds of the union of the male and the female, reminds generally
of Science.
8. The Empress. A winged woman enthroned, the orb of the
world on the end of her sceptre. On her shield is the Eagle, the symbol
of the soul and of life. She represents the Ternary, fertility, generation,
the mighty balance between active Intellect and absolute Wisdom,
germination, incubation, fermentation, the mystery of attraction.
Number—8, Trinity, Triangle. Letter—ghimel. Vital Mystery.
Star—Venus, productive beauty. General meaning—action.
4. The Emperor. A bearded Prince seated in profile on a throne,
also having an eagle on his shield. His legs are crossed, his head
covered with an iron helmet, in his hand the sceptre symbolic of genera*
tion. Look at him well and you will see that his attitude reproduces
the 4 which is the hieroglyph of Jupiter, and the star of the 4th leaf
is in truth Jupiter. This number 4 denotes the universal quaternary
(4 elements, etc.) The number of the cube, the emblem of firmness,
of solidity. Its letter is the dalclh which means thorax, or better
breast, nourishing breast. In short, the general meaning is Fulfil*
ment.
5. The Pope. The great High priest, the Master of the Arcana,
seated between the pillars of Hermes and of Solomon, he makes the
esoteric gesture (two fingers raised) and leans on the great cross with
three arms. Two lesser ministers are kneeling before him. He
denotes and communicates inspiration; besides 5 is the figure of
faith, of quintessence, of the pentagram of the Sages of the Nile, of
sensory life (the five senses.). Letter hi, the breath. Star, Mercury.
Meaning, Inspiration.
According to Papus leaf 5 corresponds to leaf 2, is its complement,
as in fact each leaf has as complement the leaf the number of which
together with its own makes 7. Thus leaf 4 corresponds to leaf 8,
leaf 6 to 1 and reciprocally.
6. The Lover. Here we have our Juggler of No. 1 coming back,
beardless, bareheaded, standing at the crossing of two roads. Two
women beside him, one wearing a circlet of gold round her forehead,
the other with her hair loose. Thus he hesitates between Vice and
Virtue, whence the other name of this leaf, the Two Roads. Above
the group Love draws his Bow and hides the sun of Truth.
426 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
427
Now the Hebrew vau represents the Eye, the eye which looks at
what the undecided man will do.
Two meanings arc attached to leaf 6 :—Union (figure 6) or Trial.
In any case it denotes the antagonism of the forces of good and evil,
of Liberty and Necessity, as well as the balance between Heaven and
Earth, embraces, love. Planetary sign—Virgo.
7. The Chariot. Cubic car with four columns surmounted by an
awning in which is seated a crowned conqueror holding a sceptre,
and drawn by two sphinxes. Between them on the car ap[>ears the
Indian lingam surmounted by the flying globe of the Egyptians.
Number, 7. Letter, gain, the sound of the whistling of the arrow,
reminding of fighting and victory. Zodiacal sign, Gemini.
The Victor has conquered the four elements. According to Alta
this idea of victory will be seen again in the 7 of rods which indicates
authority in the word, the 7 of cups being authority in the sentiment,
the 7 of swords being authority in life and the 7 of pence being authority
in wealth. In short all the commentators are in complete agreement
here. Leaf 7—Victory.
8. Justice. Themis with her sword and her balance. Therefore
naturally the sidereal sign is Libra. The letter is heth which signifies
and symbolises the fields (elementary labour). This is why Etteilla
translated it, visit to the country. B ut it would be better to say:
Continued effort produces balance. And thus we find our normal
meaning again. 8 is the number of reactionary balance, of justice.
According to Papus, there is in this second septenary of arcana, as
in the first, a correspondence between leaves 7 ana 12, 8 and 11, 9 and
10, all adding up to 19.
9. The Hermit. Wrapped in a big cloak. He has his staff to
support him, his lantern to give him light. He is the son of the star
Neptune, of the number 9 and of the letter teth (roof, that is to say
E
rotection, safety). Others give him Leo as his zodiacal sign, Neptune
eing unknown in antiquity. In any case the meaning is clear:—
See and be silent. A staff to defend himself. The cloak also gives
protection. Here is the true symbol of the Wise man. The unanimous
meaning given to the leaf of the Hermit is Prudence.
10. The Wheel of Fortune. Iod, the 10th letter of the Jewish
alphabet, is the letter of the first finger, the finger of command, hence
conception of spiritual duration, then of the eternity of time. Hence
the Wheel which ever turns. Here a dog goes up on one side, a monkey
comes down the other. At the top a poised sphinx holding the sword
in its lion’s claws. We are under the sign of Capricorn. It is Life
which turns, there is movement in everything. He who rises runs
HI GH MAGIC
428 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
the danger of falling, he who falls has the hope of rising—the fate of
all.
With us iod is i, the letter found in the majority of the words relating
to water, such as humid, fluid, liquid. Now the 10th hour in China
shows the moment when the cows are milked and is represented by
an urn, which symbol has been preserved in Hebrew. According to
Papus leaf 10 represents the reflection of the will, the Hindu Karma
(necessity—see Third Part), the magic power which is the true wealth.
General meaning—Wealth.
11. Strength. The 11th letter is caph (the hand half closed in the
act of taking, of grasping). Hence the idea of strength. Also of
vitality. Astrologically—Leo. The picture is a woman crowned,
like the Juggler, with the horizontal 8 of vitality. Quietly and without
effort she shuts the jaws of a maddened lion. Meaning—Strength.
12. The Hanged Man. He is tied by one foot to a gibbet in the
shape of a Hebrew tau (a branch between two trees each having six
branches cut off), head downwards, hands tied behind him. I t
represents a violent death, martyrdom, atonement, he who dies for
an idea, also public example, discipline. Astral sign—Uranus.
The 12th letter is lamed, symbolised by an arm stretching forth,
or a wing, both signs of expansion. The Chaldean lamed on the other
hand is translated by discipline.
According to Eli Alta the symbol of the hanged man stands for
laws which are inescapable and pass our understanding.
Papus sees in leaves 9, 10, 11 and 12 the origin of the occult
quaternary, Be silent (Prudence), Will (magic power or wealth), Dare
(courage, leaf 11), Know (the experience of leaf 12, the hanged man
reminding of the Sun at the summit of its course through the 12 signs
of the Zodiac, 6 on each side, and beginning to descend). He sees
here the end of the 2nd septenary.
And according to general opinion, Sacrifice is the general meaning
of leaf 12, after which comes the idea of end, of death.
18. Death. The traditional representation of the skeleton cutting
down heads, hands and feet. Not only, says Alta, does everything
die physically, but everything that man does against man also dies.
Obviously the number of such a leaf had to be 18, and its planet Saturn.
Papus explains the place of each arcanum in the sequence by its number.
I t would be too long to reproduce this explanation here, but by way of
example we give his method for the arcanum of death.
He points o u t:—Arcanum 18 is explained by 10 (Wealth) and
16 (Destruction) in the middle of which it stands (■— g--*? = ^
= = 18
-)
18 is thus between iod the principle of creation and hain the principle
H IG H MAGIC 429
of destruction. Hence the idea of universal transforming principle.
Further, 18 completes 18 as 5 completes 2 and as 12 completes 7. And
we have the following ta b le:—
13 18
Death is completed by
13+18=31
the Moon
14 17
Temperance is completed by
14+17=31
the Stan
15 16
The Devil is completed by
15+16=31
Destruction.
Thus 18 is placed between the Invisible and the Visible. I t is the
link of Nature through which all influences act from one world to
the other. Meaning:—
1. The Transforming God—the universal transforming principle.
2. The Negation of Fulfilment—
Death.
3. The creative astral light. The universal balancing plastic Force. Finally
the letter mem indicates woman, the companion of man. It is the
maternal and female sign personified, the local and plastic sign of the
passive image.
This example shows to what thoughts the Taroc may lead.
14. Temperance. The letter noun denotes the seed of the female,
the fruit of life, and through this the proceeds of any combination,
the result of forces (Papus). The figure 14 is Christ sacrifled, the
son of Mary (Alta). Astral sign—Aquarius.
The picture represents an angel with the sign of the sun on his
forehead, pouring from one cup into the other the two essences of
the elixir of life.
Commentators have seen in this the symbol of the seasons and
the changes of life (Eliphas Ldvi), the perpetual movement of life,
the combination of ideas and forces (Christian), the harmony of
mixtures (Papus), the metamorphoses (Bourgeat). General meaning—
Initiative.
15. The Devil. Picard describes it as the goat of Mendes or the
Baphomct of the Temple with its pantheistic attributes.
Morcsimply let us say that the subject of this leaf is the usual Devil
of the cosmogonies, bearded and horned, resembling in some respects
the representation of the Juggler. But here the motions of the hands
are in the contrary direction. Instead of the Magician’s wand the
Devil has the lighted torch. The hieroglyph of the letter samech
is the serpent (it is the gain or arrow in circular motion) which has
always been the symbol of the circle, hence of Fate. This is why the
commentators have respected this thought of predestination, major
force, evil genius, and have all given to arcanum 15 the general meaning
of Fate.
16. The Madhouse. I t is also called the Tower struck by Lightning,
for we see a tower having its upper part carried off by the celestial
fire, and two persons falling off it.
Number 70. Letter hain. Astral sign, the Ram.
The hain or gnain materialises the vau. It is the Material sense.
The figure of one of the two falling victims reproduces in rough outline
the letter. I t is the first leaf, observes Papus, where we find a material
construction. Symbols, the fall of Adam, the punishment of pride,
the failure of the Mind. The balance is upset. General meaning—
Ruin.
17. The Star. Nude young woman pouring on the dry soil the
vital fluid of two urns, one of gold, the other of silver. On her head
shines the Eight-pointed Star surrounded by seven stars. On a tree
near by a bird prepares for flight. Hebrew letter phe or pe, thought,
or beth (mouth), in its wider sense Tongue, hence Word. Here we
have the Word in action (pouring out of the fluids) and near by the
symbol of the winged soul. This leaf compensates for good the evil
influence of the last-mentioned leaf-—
spiritual rising after material
downfall. The fault is forgiven. General meaning—Hope.
18. The Moon. Quite a picture :—The Moon in the sky, the falling
dew, two dogs howling, two towers, a crab rising from the bottom
of the water. A path with drops of blood losing itself towards the
horizon.
The Crab denotes the sign of the Zodiac of Cancer, the Moon a
night filled with the howlings of the enemies of man and with dread
(the bloodstains on the road). Bloody dew, or golden tears shed by
Phoebe ? The Hebrew tsade represents the end. Hence the towers
represent the boundaries, no doubt the boundaries of the human mind.
Hence its general meaning—Disappointment.
19. The Sun. The star of day sheds its rays on two child friends
in a fortified spot.
It is the physical father of human beings lighting society, the
towns, civilisation.
The Hebrew koph denotes the axe, defence, effort, material, exis
tence.
Here we have no longer the pale light of Selene, but the brilliant
fire of Phoebus.
430 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
The mind which just now was asleep, frightened, now awakens
and seeks happiness.
See how tne leaves follow each other.
The zodiacal sign is obviously Gemini. General meaning—
Happiness.
20. Judgment. The dead rise up from their graves at the sound
of the trum pet of the Archangel. These dead are a man, a woman
and a child—the human ternary. Reach is the head, the sign of m otion.
Awakening, surprise, and above all Rebirth.
21. The Fool—and 22. The World. Some place the one before
the other, and some write O instead of 22. Picard and E tteilla place
the World before the Fool, and see in it Kether or the kabbalistic crown
between the four elem ents of a sphinx divided into four parts, and inside
the crown Truth holding a magic wand in each hand. Eliphas Ldvi
sees here the summing up of the whole, the highest degree of initiation;
Papus sees success; Picard gives as the general meaning—Reward.
Afterwards as leaf O comes the Fool, a tramp carrying in his sack his
ridicules and his v ices; a dog follows and bites him. Meaning—
Atonem ent. Elie A lta makes the Fool leaf 0-21 and the World leaf
22, as also does Papus. Of course the pictures are the same as the
preceding.
In our opinion this order is more logical. Papus, whom we follow
here, calls arcanum 21 Mate (checkmate) and not the Fool, although
he preserves the picture of the fool with tom clothes, going carelessly
towards a precipice where a crocodile waits to devour nim. It is the
picture, he says, of the condition to which we are led by passions which
we are unable to rule, the passion of the flesh and its satisfaction, of
relative duration, of instinct, the animal sign. The letter shin was the
sign of relative duration.
On the other hand than (the breast) is the sign of signs, the sign
of perfection. Its proper place is therefore the last leaf, representing
the macrocosm and the microcosm, the whole creation. The four
elements of the divided sphinx are:—
Rod—iod—fire—Msn.
Cup—hi—water—Lion.
Sword—vau—earth—Bull.
Circle or penny—second hd —air—Eagle.1
General meaning according to Papus—Success, the Absolute,
Fulfilm ent, Triumph.
1 According to Picard, the Cups correspond to air, the Sceptree or Bode to F in, the 8words
to Water, the Pence to Earth.
H IG H MAGIC 431
434 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Three.—They are arranged in a triangle. In the centre the caduceus.
A t the top a dog's head. Around hazelnut trees. All these are
attributes of Mercury. H ence:—
Sign—The start of a life devoted to intellectual or commercial
activity.
Four.—Arranged in a square supported by a lion. Ears of com
in the centre. Strength and Fertility.
Sign—Intellectual fulfilment.
Five.—Arranged in flaming pentagram (great moral activity).
Sign—Ambition, Irritability.
Six.—Arranged in two opposing triangles, one point towards the
sky, one towards the earth. Again ears of com , but their roots are
gnawed by ghosts, whilst on the horizon shines the rising sun.
Sign—Laziness and work alternating.
Seven.—Four set in a square and three in a triangle above. The
four elements within the square. The risen sun within the triangle.
Victory of mind over matter.
Sign—Invention.
Eight.—They are set in a star; flames at the bottom of the picture,
smoke at the top. Balance.
Sign—Poise. Surroundings favourable to life. The zone of
exchanges. Commercial transactions.
Nine.—Four set in a square below 5 set in pentagram. W ithin
the square a lamp engraved with the sign of fire. Above flames.
Signs—Prudence and foresight, experience and lucky speculations,
a period of rest from action.
Ten.—Set in a flaming star.
Signs—Excessive activity. Work of genius. Harvests and travel.
Squire.—Kneeling down, he plants a sceptre into the ground not
far away from a wood fire. Sign of dependence, and also of youth,
as is the case with the other three squires of the Taroc.
Sign—Love of home, or youth having subordinate employment
with an influential person.
Knight.—Galloping in the fire. On the right a ram, the first sign
of the triangle of fire. At the bottom a helmet (as in the three other
leaves of knights of cups, swords, pence).
Signs—Adult and unmarried—artist, actor, writer, stockbroker
getting known early.
Queen.—She holds a flaming sceptre, standing on an arrow
(Sagittarius, second sign of Are).
Sign—Educated active artistic woman, or wife of scientist, artist
or business man.
King.—Standing on a lion in the midst of flames, a sceptre in his
hand, before a railing bearing the attributes of fire.
Sign—Genius or great talent in all branches of activity.
The Pence (or Circles)
Ace.—A rooted round penny. Elementary correspondence—the
Earth.
Sign—Money looked a t as representative of matter.
Two.—One rooted in the earth, with the effigies of the E arth and
the Moon, the other in the air with the effigy of the Sun. I t is the
twofold idea of absorption and emancipation by means of gold, the
law of exchanges.
Sign—Contract or business association.
Three.—Two buried in the soil (bearing roots and ghosts) with
the double effigy of Capricorn and Taurus. One above under the
influence of Mercury, the sign of successful effort.
Sign—An undertaking beginning to bring profit.
Four.—Surrounded by roots, in the midst of the picture the earth.
Sign—Fortune made, daughter to be bom, underground animals
and cryptogamous plants.
Five.—They are round a pentagram and branches intertwined.
Five ants are engraved on the pentagram ; reason enslaving wealth.
Sign—Economy or avarice.
Six.—Two interlaced triangles with pence at the points; but half
the picture is underground, the other above; the first bears the symbols
of Capricorn, the second the symbols of the three theological virtues
(faith—cross; hope—anchor; charity—heart). Good and Evil in
conflict.
Signs—Avarice and charity alternating. Bad or good use of
money.
Seven.—Four pence in a square underground, three in a triangle
above; the whole surrounded by a tree which a t the top has branches
with leaves. The seven planets engraved on the seven circles.
Sign—Charity.
Eight.—Placed on the eight points of a star, four below ground,
four above. Equality.
Signs—Fair division of property. Legacy. Girl. Minerals.
H I G H MAGIC 435
436
Nine.—Four in a square below ground and interlaced with branches.
Five in a pentagram in the air surrounded with leaves. Profitable
investment of money.
Sign—Purchase of landed property. Exploitation of mine. Grand
mother.
Ten.—In a circle, half underground where vegetation is busy.
Evolution of matter.
Signs—Gains and losses of money, especially by gambling. Gifts.
Treasures found.
Squire.—Balanced on a disc rolling between two stiff small trees.
Unjustified ambitions in money matters.
Signs—Domestics and thieves.
Knight.—He moves bareheaded (his helmet has fallen off) between
branches covered with young leaves. Head of Taurus, the first sign
of the triangle of the E arth ; below this helmets. Ambitious, wanting
to possess quickly and much. His helmet has fallen off, and his reason
no longer nas a shield.
Signs—Gamblers, croupiers, fortune hunters, exploiters of women.
Queen.—A penny above her. A balcony behind. Woman skilful
in getting rich.
Sign—Courtesan or new-rich.
King.—Is seated on a throne ornamented with two Capricorn
heads, at the summit of a rock, a sceptre in one hand, a penny in the
other. The power of gold which is self-sufficient and has been obtained
a t the price of desolation.
Sign—The new-rich.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
The Cups
Ace.—Cup engraved with the signs of the Air (Gemini, Libra,
Aquarius) containing a miniature castle. Above a butterfly flying
away. This indicates the house (and the family) moved by confused
passions, with the aerial soul planing above.
Sign—The family, the home.
Two.-—They are in the midst of a crown of roses (the flower of
Venus) the symbol of a beneficent binary (sun active in one, moon
passive in the other). Tendency to the union of two magnetic
principles.
Sign—Prospect of sentimental union.
Three.—Set in triangle with an egg in the middle (shewn in germ),
a butterfly above and flowers (the awakening of Nature). I t is the
beginning of the evolution of love.
Sign—Pregnancy.
H I G H MAGI C 43T
Four.—Set quadrilaterally, two vertically, two horizontally. In
the centre, the eagle breaks the egg. Above-—Gemini. A t the sides—
ears of corn.
Five.—Set on the sides of a pentagram. All around flowers, birds
and butterflies. Wisdom and Will-power rule feeling. In the centre
an owl betokens thought.
Sign—Renunciation. Discernment.
Sis.—Set in two opposing triangles and again with birds, flowers
and butterflies. Three cups head upwards, three head downwards.
The binary producing the ternary. Reminds of major arcanum 6.
Hence, indecision in love affair.
Sign—Scruples, indecision of heart about a marriage.
Seven.—Four a t bottom set in square, three a t top set in triangle.
Flowers in full bloom.
Sign—Fortunate solution of material questions interfering with
love plans.
Eight.—Eight cups consisting of butterflies’ wings and set in a
star. Balance, the age of reason.
Sign—Love returned. A boy of seven.
Nine.—Four set in a square and five in a pentagram. A butterfly
and flowers. Anxiety.
Sign—Respect for family traditions and principles. Grandfather.
Ten.—Arranged in a circle and separated by flowers. The perfection
of sentiment.
Sign—Friends.
Squire.—He is kneeling between two vases of flowers, and turning
towards one of them, he smells it. I t is the youth the slave of the
first attractions of love. Trouble at the beginning of the connection.
Sign—Young man tormented by love.
Knight.—He is over a cup decorated with flowers. Above Gemini
(first sign of the triangle of Air). Conception of conquest and of
victory in love.
Sign—The seducer.
Queen.—She holds a cup out of which flies a butterfly (the soul).
Below a cup held by two eagles and in front the sign of Libra (the
second of the triangles of Air).
Sign—The Wife fulfilled, the Mother.
King.—He has a pickaxe in one hand, in the other a sceptre with
a butterfly, before him a cup standing on a pedestal from which escape
four streamlets of water.
438 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
The Swords
Ace.—A sword which a hand plunges straight into the water where
it pierces a crab. In the sky the crescent of the Moon. Elementary
correspondence—Water.
Sign—Struggle.
Two.—Set at angles in opposing directions. The one touches
with its point the stormy sky, the other the bottom of a turbulent
sea. Antagonism between water and fire, between opposing forces.
Sign—Break, duel.
Three.—Set in triangle in disturbed water. The two swords at
the side drive with their points a fish on its back (therefore dead).
Three leaves of nenuphar fall into the bottom of the water.
Sign—Perverted instincts. Morbid condition.
Four.—Set in a cross, the points meeting in water surrounded by
luminous crescents. Signs of Scorpio round the points, of Cancer
at the top. Fulfilment of evil.
Sign—dll event (illness or murderous attack).
Five.—In a pentagram on a disturbed sea. Above, the eye of
God.
Sign—Remorse, call of conscience.
Six.—Set in two opposing triangles, the point of one in the air,
the point of the other under water. In the air two rams’ heads;
under the water the crab. Struggle between servitude and enfranchise
ment.
Sign—Dependence. Doubtful condition of health.
Seven.—Four in a square in the water, and three in a triangle, where
the cold Moon, the mistress of the night, looks a t the submerged Sun.
Domination of darkness over light.
Sign—Theft, betrayal.
Eight.—In a star, two swords being on the water level, three below,
three above. Balance.
Sign—Condemning Justice.
N ine.—Four in a submerged square. Five in pentade in the
air with leaves of nenuphar. Two fishes seem to try to leap out of
their element—the attraction of Evil.
Sign—Hatred, envy, intoxication, decrepitude.
Ten.—In circle, five above the water, five in the water. The Moon
in its four phases. This leaf tells the various forms of Evil and of the
menaces of Destiny.
Sign—Enemies and illnesses.
Squire.—Standing on a draught board at the water side, spying.
Sign—Night prowlers and soldiers.
Knight.—His horse swims in midstream. Helmet and Scorpio
above him.
Signs—Adventurers, fanatics, subordinary chiefs, advocates,
officials at the law courts, rebels.
Queen.—Standing on the Crescent of the Moon floating on the
water. The sign of Cancer in the air. The symbol of the daring
woman armed with the sword of struggle.
Sign—The plotter.
King.—The same position as the Queen on the Crescent Moon
floating in mid-river. The sword touches two fishes. I t is a Jupiterian
King.
Sign—Officers, priests and magistrates.
Once in possession of the Key, the Taroc, this formidable Summary
of Knowledge and of Fate, may be applied to everything relating
to Man, as Papus has shown in his Gipsy Taroc; but we are unable
to follow the Magician through his explanations which, as he himself
says on the red cover of his book, are only intended for the initiate.
All we will say is th at by the aid of the Taroc we first of all find
Smbolically the threefold theogonic, androgonic and cosmogonic
eory of the ancient Magi. M. Charles Barlet has shown how in the
major arcana of the Taroc is found the double current of the progressive
Materialisation or Involution of the God-Mind, and the progressive
redivinisation or evolution of M atter (see Third Part) which is the basis
of Theosophy. F . G. Lacuria in Harmonies o f the Being Expressed
in Numbers, and Wronski in Apodictics, have arrived at similar con
clusions, namely th at all the ancient theogonies are in agreement in
their first principles.
The Taroc also explains Androgony or the theory of Man who,
by analogy, becomes a creator on the Earth (as is taught by the minor
arcana), and whose Body comes from the Universe, his Soul from the
astral plane, his Mind from God himself.
finally the Taroc is a Cosmogony and reminds us th at the Universe
is the result of the participation of the Human in the creative acts
of the Divine. Jacob Boehmen and Claude de Saint Martin have
thoroughly dealt with this point.
This is not all. The Taroc may also be studied from the astronomic
point of view, for in it we find the four seasons, the twelve months
(or signs of the Zodiac), the thirty-six decani and the seven planets.
Christian, Ely Star, Oswald W irth have formulated extraordinary
astrological theories, the first in his History o f Magic, the second in his
Mysteries o f the Horoscope of which we have already spoken. W irth
has drawn up a table of the correspondences of the major arcana with
HI GH MAGIC 439
the principal constellations of the Zodiac and pentodes too complicated
to be dealt with here.
There is the Taroc of initiation with which Ch. Barlet has dealt
a t length, and which according to him contains the secret of Theosophy,
the why and wherefore of the combination of Force and Matter,
the union into one whole of Religion, Philosophy, Wisdom and Science.
There is the Taroc of the Kabbala, dealt with by Etteilla according
to the Book o f That (which is the Egyptian Taroc, also explained by
Stanislas de Guaita, and based on Numbers).
And finally there is the Taroc of divination, with the elements of
which we have dealt in our chapter of Cartomancy.
In these circumstances it is easily understood that the Taroc has
excited an intense interest among many. The following is a list of
its main students:—
Raymond Lullius (1285-1815), the occultist and alchemist, whose
doctrine called the Ars Magna is founded on the use of the Taroc.
Jerome Cardon (1501-1576), professor of mathematics and of
medicine, whose Treatise on Subtlety is based on the keys of the Taroc.
Guillaume Postel (1510-1581): The Key to Hidden Things.
Count de Gebelin (1725-1784): The Pnm itive World (key to the
Egyptian Taroc).
Etteilla (alias Alliette), the renewer of the Taroc pack and of its
kabbalistic explanation.
Claude de Saint Martin, called the Unknown Philosopher (1743-
1808) the disciple of Boehmen and Pasqualis, the founder of the Martinist
orders.
J. A. Vaillant who spent many long years among the Gi|>sies and
verbally received their traditions which he transcribed in nis Roms,
his Bible o f the Gipsies, his Magic Key to Fiction and Fact.
Christian, the librarian of the Arsenal. See The Red M an o f the
Tuileries (1854).
Eliphas L6vi in his Dogma and Rittud of High Magic (1861) based
on the Taroc.
Stanislas de Gualta, the learned Kabbalist: On the Threshold of
Mystery, The Serpent o f Genesis.
And in our own day Peladan, Barlet, Wirth, Ely Star, Blavatsky,
Papus, Charles de Sivry, Elie Alta, Eudes Picard, Paul Jagot, etc.,
etc.
Those who, with the help of these writers, desire to go more deeply
into the old Hermetic Wisdom will find in it great profit, and above
all an admirable mental exercise. I t will easuy be understood that
we were not able to deal more at length with this supreme and subtle
science of Olden Times in this Encyclopedia which only intends to
arouse interest and respect for it.
440 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
T H I R D P A R T
TH E METAPSYCHICAL SCIENCES
W e are firm ly convinced that, interm ixed with the known and
described force*, there are forces which we do not kn o w ; that a
mechanical, sim ple, popular explanation is not sufficient to interpret
everything that takes place around us ; in one word, that there are
occult psychical phenomena, and i f we say “ occult ” we use a word
which sim ply m eans unknown.
Pr o f e s s o r Ch a r l e s R ic h e t .
CHAPTER I
F r o m Ma g n e t i s m t o Sp i r i t i s m
I
Magnetism
We call Metapsychical Sciences those sciences which have as their
subject not the ordinary human faculties studied in treatises
on Psychology and other classical manuals, but the extraordinary
faculties of the soul (as to which official Science makes reservations,
though with much less obstinacy than on the subject of the Arts of
Divination and Magic of which we have previously spoken), and also
the modifications which the soul undergoes owing to peculiar con
ditions, the strange forces which lie hidden in it, the revelations which
numerous and to say the least surprising experiments have brought
us, the deductions, finally, which may be drawn from these super
normal facts, the most daring of which forms the basis of Spiritualism
and Theosophy.
We intended at first to divide this part into different chapters
dealing with magnetism, hypnotism, suggestion, clairvoyance, with
mediumship, etc. B ut these various phenomena are so linked to
gether th a t we have decided to make no divisions, but to sum up
into one whole an enormous amount of m atter which is dealt with
in detail in a mass of specialised books. Our main object has been
to deal clearly with a vast and diversified subject, which is sometimes
difficult, but always of absorbing interest and able to lead to endless
discussion. Further, the character and scope of this volume does
not allow of too much detail. We shall be happy if, after having
perused these pages, our readers no longer smile at these problems
which have been too much neglected or foolishly despised, ana if some
of them, having acquired a taste for them, wish to go farther in their
initiation; right at the start I promise them, not the mental exhaustion
which is so often threatened to the seeker in order to frighten him off,
but a deep joy at their intellectual and moral development, a serenity
which is not the least of the rewards of such studies, and finally peace
of conscience and of heart.
443
m
Let us first of all speak of Magnetism, which gives us a very solid
starting point, right in the midst of elementary physics, without even
the shadow of denial.
The word comes from the Greek Magnes, magnet. Everyone
knows that the natural magnet is a peculiar ferruginous stone (a natural
iron oxyde) which has the power of attracting certain metals, and that
if an ordinary steel bar is rubbed with this stone, the same power is
transmitted to such bar; in the same way magnetisation may be
carried out by means of an electric current.
The word magnetism is applied to everything which concerns or
reminds of this peculiar property of producing an attraction; but
the meaning of the original term which indicated mineral magnetism
only has been very much extended.
However this may be, it has been observed that there is a terrestrial
magnetism, which acts on a magnetised needle and turns it towards
the North (in the direction of the Polar Star). There is also an animal
magnetism, that for instance of the fascinating eye of the serpent.
Finally there is a human magnetism, which enables one person to
influence another, and which in its simplest form is instinctive sym
pathy; but this power can have more important results, such as
putting a subject to sleep, capturing his will, curing him from certain
ills, etc.
And if there is a mineral magnetism, a terrestrial magnetism, a
human magnetism, have we not the right to assume th at there must
also be a universal magnetism ? 1 If our planet is magnetic, why
should not the other celestial bodies also be magnetic? This astral
magnetism is in fact a fresh proof which might have found a place
in the chapter in which we spoke of the old and admirable science
known as Astrology.
Magnetism was known in antiquity for the simple reason that
hyperpsychical phenomena have always existed. Tney formed the
experimental part of the knowledge of the Magi of Chaldea, the Brahmins
of India, the Priests of Egypt, etc., who were sorcerer-physicians at
the same time as Judge-Priests. We have seen th at they transmitted
this knowledge secretly, and in this they were right, for if exercised
lightly by inefficient or criminal persons it may entail peril, excess,
even crime. We have here definite but formidable powers.
Magnetism seems already to have been used in olden times from
the curative point of view. Sick persons came in crowds to be treated
either in the waking state or during hypnotic sleep in the temple of
Isis, the temple of Serapis, in Alexandria, in Memphis, etc. Apollonius
of Tyana cured epilepsy, and Asclepiades of Prusa frenzy. Hippocrates
diagnosed by somnambulism. The pythonesses, the Sibyls, the Oracle
' Not to be confounded with the law of universal attraction formulated by Newton.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
445
of Delphis, etc., must have been somnambulists, for the surviving
descriptions of the initiation of these priestesses and of their rites lead
us to this opinion. We recognise the gesture of the laying on of hands
in some antique statuettes. The Druidesses also must have practised
clairvoyance and many other matters which they deemed miraculous.
I t is even thought that our great human ancestors1 utilised forms of
energy which as yet we have not rediscovered. I t is probable th at
initiates like Moses understood these secrets thoroughly, th at Christ
was a mighty magnetiser, by
which we do not mean th at he was
merely that.
This part of the occult sciences,
whilst surviving in Asia, suffered a
great eclipse in Europe during the
period of the Barbaric Invasions,
especially after the burning of the
Library of Alexandria. “ Dried up
in its original home,” says Jagor,
“ weakened by the dispersal of its
practitioners, the old psychic sci
ence had to be doubly prudent if it
wanted to safeguard its rem nants;
this in part accounts for secret
societies. But yet it was not dead.
Only its manifestations were look
ed upon as supernatural. In the
Middle Ages Witchcraft even mis
used them ; its history is full of
cases of suggestion, of hallucina
tion, of magnetic cures which were
adjudged Satanic.
However lofty minds, like the
elder Pliny, the great Avicenna,
Basil Valentin, Agrippa, tried to cast lightning flashes of simple truth
into the night of superstition. In the 15th century Paracelsus laid the
foundation of modem magnetism, and Araaud de Villcneuve taught
the Arab magnetism. In 1608 Professor Glocenius wrote a book in
order to give a rational explanation of these so-called miracles which
were being worked by Grcatrakes in the 17th century in England,
by Borel and Vallde in France, by Gassner in Germany.
Unfortunately Charlatanism, the Church and official Science took
a hand in the matter, the first to mislead the crowd, the second to
1 Sec Appendix. Note on Hciogrammatism and the probable magnetic power of the
*'Adotnista.”
FROM MAGNETI SM TO S P I R I T I S M
446
prohibit a science which formed part of that Occultism which it hated
and dreaded, the third, then in its infancy, opposing everything which
it could not understand or explain.
And Magnetism had been relegated to the company of foolishnesses
and evil deeds when Mesmer brought it to light again in a celebrated
article (1779) which made it fashionable. He was the first to strip
it of its tinsel coverings and to restore it to its principal use, the relief
of physical ills. He used it himself in the shape of passes, suggestions,
magneto-therapy (the magnetic tub) and to him we owe the idea of the
therapeutic value of a quick and deep action on the nervous system.
Unfortunately his ephemeral fame brought in its train the name of a
Sicilian half-learned adventurer, the well known Balsamo, also called
Cagliostro, who tried to combine mesmerism with the Kabbala and
Magic, with the result that it was wrecked by a ridicule for which he
himself is perhaps not entirely to blame.
However, magnetic science came into its own again with Puysegur
who, in 1784, discovered the "provoked somnambulism,’' and even
obtained phenomena of clairvoyance. After him came Elliotson,
who in England perfected the system of passes, Esdaile who in Calcutta
anaesthetised patients by it before surgical operations, Gibbon and
his experiments with catalepsy, etc. In short, the medical world for
a time took an interest in these researches. In 1818 Deleuze wrote
an extensive critical history of Magnetism. In 1820 Baron du Potet
practised it at the Hotel-Dieu. Then another stop. The failures
of Dr. Berna sufficed to induce the Academy in 1887 definitely (as it
believed) to relegate Magnetism to the rank of what it called great
impostures.
B ut four years had not elapsed when, by modifying the methods
and the technique of a magnetiser of that day who did not give up
his work, Lafontaine (1808-1892), the English physician James Braid
discovered hypnosis without passes (which the Hindus already knew)
by making the subject gaze fixedly at a bright spot.
Hypnotism was bom, whose experimenters denied the existence
of animal magnetism, saying that it was not necessary for the explana
tion of the phenomena which they produced. A third facet of the
problem appeared with Dr. Lilbault, of Nancy, who claimed th at
all the phenomena of Mesmerism and of Braidism could be produced
by suggestion, that is to say by the forceful action of the eye or the
word.
Hypnotism was thoroughly studied by Charcot a t the Salpgtrifcre.
However, observes Myers (in his Human Personality, a work of rank),
the eminent physician took a wrong road from which we have had
much trouble in turning aside, for his results were only produced by
prolonged suggestion, and were to some extent endemic, being due
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
447
to the very nature of his subjects, the patients. More interesting is
the work of Li£bault and the so-called School of Nancy, which restored
the ancient thaum aturgy with its therapeutic suggestion. Also the
work of the learned Chanes Richet who may be said to have inaugurated
the modem movement with a breadth ofview freed from all empiricism,
and who introduced a fourth series of facts, the action of the will at a
distance, which was practised in turn by Ochorowicz, Gley, H^ricourt,
Gibert, etc. To these must be added the names of Bemheim, who
reduced hypnotism to its simplest and safest elements, the doctors
Lhuys and Ltegeois, etc.
During the last fifty years it may be said th a t the miracles of the
ancient Magic have almost all been reproduced in the shape of experi
ments by what has been called Metapsychics. They will be found
with comments in a great number of books the writers of which are
often the operators themselves, such as Maxwell, de Rochas, Geley,
Durville, Delanne, Myers, Osty, Boirac. We have perused nearly
all of these books. They abound with facts, proofs, tests. To them
we refer those of our readers who may wish for complete and detailed
information on these questions.
In short it is the physicians themselves who have made Magnetism
fashionable again, for the greater part of the experimenters whom
we have just mentioned are doctors, and this explains why magnetism
has in the main preserved its healing character, as to which we will
now say a word. How curious it is th at medical opinion should also
be its greatest enemy! Due perhaps to the fact of competition in
the case of healers without diplomas. I t is dangerous, say some.
B ut in many cases it is ignorance and disdain. Lawsuits have been
known where healers were condemned whilst in the witness box their
patients blessed and defended them 1 But we will not dwell on this,
merely pointing out th a t curative magnetism has fine and remarkable
tales to tell. Baron du Potet writes its first modem pages. The fame
will be remembered of the Zouave Jacob who mixed his a rt with
inoffensive spiritualism, saying th at he received his fluid from white
spirits, also of Antoine, the simple workman, on whose work a kind of
religion called Antoinism was founded, which had its thousands of
disciples and its temple in Belgium. Another group of Belgian mediums
practised a t Chenle1 a magnetic cure for all kinds o f illnesses by
passes and the use of magnetised w ater.2 Dr. Lilbault himself used
the laying on of hands.9 There is a complete technique which
will be found especially in the Scientific M odem Method o f Magnetism,
>See Practical Guidefor tie Magnetising Medium.
* Deleuze would magnetise a bottle of water in two or three minutes by means of passes.
* See Appendix, note os to Healers.
FROM MAGNETI SM TO S P I R I T I S M
Hypnotism, Suggestion, of Paul Jagot with which we cannot deal more
fully here, ana which is a real course of Psycho-Magnetic Medicine
for the cure or relief of the greater part of functional troubles, of
indispositions not due to chronic affections, of neurosis, hysteria,
epilepsy, debility, alcoholism, toxicomania, etc.
We have used the word “ psycho-magnetic ” 1 because there is a
doctrine which even introduces psychics into the art of healing others
or oneself. Some in fact look upon illness merely as an unpleasant
occurrence, the effects of which may be neutralised by will-power, by
mystic ardour. They think that it was by means of a will-power of
this kind that Buddha and Christ healed the sick. Health is harmony,
it may be said, which is cultivated by the accumulation of mental
vibrations towards goodwill and towards faith (this would be the
kind of thing th at takes place at Lourdes). To this conception was
due the birth in England about 1860 of Christian Science, also called
Spiritualism . The Christian Scientists deny illness and even its
possibility on principle, claiming that this inharmonious defect is
purely mental, and that by prayer, which induces an extreme concen
tration of the will, it can be driven out.
Christian Science has to-day more than 6,000 members. It is
decidedly beneficial in a large number of cases for everyone knows
(and the doctors know, but they take care not to say it) the astounding
number of imaginary invalids. But everyone also knows that it has
its limitations which anyone of average intelligence can guess for
himself.
Further Christian Science is a religious sect even more than a
therapeutic doctrine. We had in our hands recently a booklet of
propaganda, a periodical started after the death of the well-known
Mary Baker Eddy, the founder of the system which is contained in her
remarkable book Science and Health with the K ey to the Scriptures,
and who herself died in 1910 at the age of 90. There we see th a t the
basic idea of the doctrine is the unretdity o f illness, o f sin and o f death,
and this as the result of the saying that God cannot have created evil,
for to have created it would have been to derogate from Himself. The
belief in the entirety o fGod is obligatory denial of what would constitute
in Him a kind of moral amputation.
We have above mentioned the auto-suggestive reasoning which
flows from a claim after all not more silly than many others. The
most surprising thing is that in this paper (The Christian Science
Herald of November 1928) and in many others are quoted various cases
of healing which, it seems, have been carefully checked. Mrs. Baldwin,
' The labours oi Dejerine and Dubois of Berne have opened the way to what is commonly
called psychotherapy. 8omedoctors of to-day (forinstance Dr. Kechichian) even use magnetism,
hypnotism and suggestion jointly in the healing of organic, nervous and mental disease.
448 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
449
for instance, who by faith restored to their normal appearance her
hands which were crippled with rheumatism. Mr. Emu Nyman who
stated that happiness came to his home with Christian Science, driving
out ill and unhappiness, and restoring sight to his wife. Ethel Sheriff
instantly cured of an internal trouble from which she had suffered
for ten years. Florence Wright who saw a twenty-year-old sprain
disappear from her knee. And in passing we would point out that
these do not seem to be nervous diseases.
It is also only fair to say that Christian Science has its healers
who show you the road to thd necessary fervour and who give you
advice as to the use to make of this extraordinary medical healing.
They are spread over all parts of the world and have everywhere then:
branchchurches and their lecture rooms. In London there are several,
the head office being in Adelphi Terrace with churchesin Sloane Street,
Curzon Street, and elsewhere.
FROM MAGNETI SM TO S P I R I T I S M
In short, psychic healers start from the principle of projecting
into the mind of the patient his cure, or the possibility of his cure.
Further, everybodyis ableto magnetise. Butto magnetise properly
is another matter. This requires intelligence, integrity, will-power
and much practice. It is also necessary to have the fluid in excess
so as to be able to pass it on to another without fatigue. To find
out if this is the case, show your fingers to a lucid somnambulist, and
she will tell you because she willsee it. Finally goodhealthis essential,
for otherwise one would run the risk of communicating one’s own
defects to the patient.
At bottom what is meant by magnetising someone? It means
saturating him with fluid. But in order to effect the combination
of the two fluids (of the operator and of the subject) it is necessary
that the fluidofthe operatorshouldbethestronger, themoreabundant,
and be in sym pathy with the fluid ofthe subject. Oncethis^sympathy
exists, the magnetiser practises his art in special conditions into which
we cannot go here for want of space, and also because we do not want
to give incomplete information which might lead to incorrect practice
and entail serious consequences. It must further be understood that
magnetic healing is not universal, and in no way supersedes either
allopathy or homoeopathy, and that the physician remains the best
adviser of his patients. But why, instead of opposing curative
3 etism, do not physicians ask its help and incorporate it in their
s and in their practice in those cases where Science does not
give them the desired results? It is claimed (we quote Paul Jagot)
“ that Magnetism is a form of energy inherent in the human organism,
which, projected in accordance with the rules of the art, raises the
450 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
tone of the vital movement of the patient, thus lending to his organism
the farces required to work the physiological reactions which m il
restore health and strengthen the internal effort implied in these
reactions. Magnetism enables us to reawaken the vigour of one or
more organs which have fallen into a state of atony, to moderate the
tone of their movement in cases of over-excitement or inflammation,
to sterilise the seat of microbes, to regulate all functions, to fight
debility in all its shapes, by intensifying cellular activity, and in all
cases to produce a mighty revival. Suggestion, in a state of wakefulness
or of induced sleep, has a very deep influence on all functions, on motor,
sensory, nervous and psychic troubles; it alone can effect extraordinary
cures.” And this seems to us to be a reason why psycho-magnetic
healing should be taught and practised.
Whence comes, and what constitutes magnetic force ? We do
not know exactly what is the nature of this kind of radio-activity due
to a fluid which resembles electricity, and perhaps is electricity of a
special kind. Everyone has it, at least latently, but in some it is more
abundant or more active. In any case this fluid may be exteriorised,
added to th at of others, in this way strengthened; and it can act,
even at a distance.
I t exists in all bodies, organic, or not, but it can be released from
the human body with particular intensity. Hector Durville thinks
th at magnetism consists of the waves caused by the vibration of the
atoms constituting the body, the amplitude and frequency of these
waves varying with the nature of the body. I t is seen everywhere
in nature, accompanies all life and all movement. I t produces pheno
mena analogous to those of galvanism. We find in magnetism two
poles positive and negative which attract or repulse each other. There
is a whole theory dealing with magnetic polarisation.
Spiritualists and Theosophists, who say that the soul is in fact
surrounded by a perisprit which shapes our thoughts, a fluid form
which is perceptible to our senses when these are developed as in the
case of mediums and lucid somnambulists, claim th at this perisprit
in its turn is surrounded by a magnetic fluid having the shape of the
body itself, moulded on it, and varying with the individual.
In any case the magnetic element plays a considerable part in all
psychic phenomena. Rejected on a sensitive in the waking state,
it induces attraction, repulses contractions, even muscular paralysis.
In sleep it induces in succession a suggestive state, a cataleptic state,
a somnambulistic state and a lethargic state, the last three being
different in magnetism and in hypnotism.
In magnetic somnambulism the subject a t first only hears the
451
operator and the persons with whom the latter puts him in contact.
Tnen comes a second stage, in which, if the operator pinches himself,
the subject feels pain in the same spot. After this he becomes lucid,
th a t is to say sees persons and things beyond the reach of his senses,
and even foresees the future. If magnetic influence continues, the
subject eventually sees the emanations which flow out of the body.
Finally his sensitiveness becomes exteriorised.
We draw special attention to this last stage of magnetisation
because it opens up an unexpected horizon and perhaps explains three
phenomena which have long been attacked:—apparitions of living
or dead persons, spirit photography and the acts of ancient witchcraft
called bewitching.
I t is Colonel de Rochas who succeeded in exteriorising the sensitive
n e s s ^ a subject, claiming that, just as a liquid evaporates, so it is
possible th a t particles may become detached from the body of the
magnetised subject and be visible as emanations undulating like flames.
I n fact, having magnetised a subject, he saw, right a t the com
mencement of the loss of the normal sensitiveness, the luminous down
which in the waking condition covered the skin, dissolve and reappear
in the shape of a lig h t m ist; this mist became condensed, getting
brighter and brighter, and Anally took the appearance of a very thin
layer which followed, at a distance from one to two inches, the whole
outline of the body.
If the operator touches this layer, the subject feels it. If mag
netisation is continued, this first layer is succeeded by several more,
each at a distance of from two ana a half to three inches from the
preceding layer. Then the subject feels touching, burns, stings, etc.,
on these layers which sometimes continue to a distance of from six to
nine feet, the sensitiveness getting less and less.
W hat can we do then save conclude with Gabriel Delanne, that
we have here in truth a materialisation of the soul, or rather its perisprit,
that, therefore, the latter is able to leave its subject and form the
apparitions the reality of which, now certain, has been so much dis
cussed.
Still more, if a glass of water is passed through the zone of exteriorised
sensitiveness, and that glass of water is then carried farther away,
it also remains sensitive, th at is to say the subject feels it if the water
is touched.
Mr. de Rochas tried to find which substances were the best for
storing this exteriorised sensitiveness, and found that liquids, viscous
substances, gelatine, wax, cottonwool and velvet were the best. Further,
this exteriorised sensitiveness can be photographed.
We have mentioned wax. Now what is bewitching if not the
exteriorisation from a distance of the sensitiveness of the person sought
FROM MAGNETI SM TO S P I R I T I S M
to be bewitched, and the transfer of this sensitiveness to a wax figure
which is hurt in the hope of reaching in this manner the hated enemy.1
452 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
II
From Magnetism to Mediumship
Before examining—alas, briefly—the other phenomena of meta-
psychics bom from the study of magnetism and hypnotism, let us
say th at therapeutics was not alone in reaping a benefit from
these researches. We have seen that magnetism provides a tangible
proof of the existence of the soul, or at least of its perisprit. B ut
all metaphysical, philosophical and psychological ideas have gained
in clearness through these metapsychical experiments. They now
rest on a firm basis, whereas for centuries, at least in the West, they
were relegated to the domain of speculation. Further psychism has
modified and improved the consciousness and the moral of the individual.
We can to-day leant how to improve in ourselves to their highest
E
itch our own psycho-magnetic energies and our mental faculties by
eeing them from the influence of depression, how to rise towards
perfection, and if we happen to accept the conclusions of Theosophy,
what consolation shall we not derive from the certainty of our con
tinued ascent towards Blessedness and towards Beauty t
Let us now broach the list of the phenomena of which we have
just had a foretaste, beginning with tne simplest which are partial
hypnosis, somnambulism, clairvoyance, thought transmission, sug
gestion, presentiment, telepathy, premonitory dreams, foreknowledge,
etc.
After this we shall pass on to the exceptional and higher phenomena
which are classified together as acts of mediumship, and from which
arose the doctrine of Spiritualism which claims to find in them experi
mental certainty and proof of human reincarnation, this belief in animist
evolution leading to the summit of Theosophist doctrine.
Somnambulism is an anomaly by means of which some persons,
in their sleep, carry out various actions just as if they were awake.
There can be but few people who have not heard of somnambulists
(not to be mistaken for foretelling the future—we arc here dealing
with natural somnambulism) whose actions have been told so many
times that we shall not go into them here. But somnambulism can
be induced (this discovery, above mentioned, was made by the Marquis
>Compare, however, in this connection the explanation as to bewitching by dctpenlala
given in the Second Part.
de Puysegur). In this case it is called hypnotic. Hysterical persons
easily pass into a state of spontaneous somnambulism accompanied
by delirium caused by hallucinations, and they can also easily be
hypnotised. Somnambulism also sometimes causes a curious division
of personality owing to which the subject seems to act according to
two separate psychologies. In the ordinary case of sleep-walking,
the subject performs acts which turn him into another person. Thus
Trousseau quotes the instance of an exceedingly upright magistrate
who, owing to attacks of this kind, became at iught an extraordinarily
doubtful character. I t was no doubt this case which inspired the
very remarkable play in which a magistrate was seen to become at
night a kind of scoundrel who frequented places of ill-fame, a thief
who one fine night broke into his own fla t!
Somnambulism is distinguished from dreaming by the fact th at
the sleep-walker on waking has no recollection whatever of his actions.
The most extraordinary cases are quoted in large num bers:—a chemist
who in absolute unconsciousness and with eyes closed dispenses medical
prescriptions with the utmost exactness; an actress, put to sleep,
recites in its entirety a part of which she did not know the first w ord;
a teacher who, in this condition, corrects the exercises of her pupils,
etc. Useless to go on quoting cases which everyone knows in some
form or other.
Hypnotism is no less a demonstrated fact, however fantastic may
be the results which it has achieved. The easiest way of inducing
it is to make the subject gaze fixedly at a bright object, whereupon
he falls into a state of hypnosis, a characteristic of which, as of som
nambulism, is a total or partial loss of sensitiveness.
The first experiments were made by Abb4 Faria, General Noizet
and Dr. B ertrand; then in 1841 by Braid the surgeon (above men
tioned), whose experiments were copied by Professor Azam in 1859.
B ut we m ust wait until 1875 before we see Charcot and his pupils
operate on hysterical persons at the Salp£tri£re. Charcot induced
catalepsy, then by suddenly suppressing the original light, a kind of
somnambulistic lethargy, during which the subject was able, when
told to do so, to read, write, sew, answer questions, etc. Bernheim
and Donato were able with a mere glance to put healthy persons to
sleep.
The same strange results were obtained by hypnotism as by
somnambulism. Dr. Bremaud caused a subject to repeat in his house
a conversation carried on in a low voice by two persons in the street,
a youth knowing nothing of trigonometry to solve a problem, a man
who has just drunk water to believe that he was drunk owing to too much
beer. Dr. Lfcgeois persuades a man th at he has committed a mime
FROM MAGNETI SM TO S P I R I T I S M 463
454
and compels him to give himself up, and he does so, giving the most
atrocious details of his crime as they have been suggested to him.
B ut the word “ suggest” leads us to suggestion. Everyone knows
th at it is possible to influence a patient by suggestion to such an extent
th at he feels no pain, as was done for instance by Dr. Choquet in 1820
when he removed the breast of a Mrs. Planteau, this being one of the
first experiments in this direction. Dr. Berillon succeeds in improving
or curing by suggestion children suffering from stammering, St. Vitus’s
dance, lueptomania, terror at night, etc. Dr. Lilbault in this manner
turned lazy and undisciplined pupils into studious ones.
A crowd may be influenced by suggestion. Plasson one day induced
three parts of the audience of a hall in which he was lecturing to believe
th at a sponge on which he poured clear water gave out an unpleasant
smell, saying th a t he was in fact pouring a nauseous liquid on it;
several of his hearers actually left the room, saying they were upset.
I t is almost certain that the well-known Alssaouas suffer from auto
suggestion during their wild rites; it is even probable th at the certainty
of the Ascension of Christ was due to hallucination of the whole of the
Apostles present, due to suggestion by the “ Galilean Rabbi.”
Voyanee, or second sight, is the faculty possessed by some persons
of knowing events quite apart from any suggestion, without the
assistance of their senses, either in a waking or a sleeping state, or
in a state of natural or induced somnambulism.
This remarkable gift has been known at all times. Philostrates
tells how Apollonius of Thyana described, at the very moment when
it took place, the murder of Domitian in Rome by the freedman
Stephanus. Swedenborg in 1754 saw in Gothenburg where he was
at the time, the burning of Stockholm, and K ant verifies this. Since
then occurrences of this kind have abounded. They fill the pages
of the Proceedings of the Society of Psychical Research, the A nnals
<£ Psychic Sciences, the books of Flammarion (The Unknown and the
Psychic Problem s), of Crookes (Researches on S piritu alism ), of Sidgwick
(Experim ents in proof o f Clairvoyance), Roux (Some Cases o f L ucidity),
of Aksakof (A nim ism and S piritism ), of Goupil (L ucidity), etc., etc.
Thus Mrs. Sidgwick caused a clairvoyant to guess correctly 187
times the suits and the number of pips on cards drawn haphazard
from a piquet pack; Major Buckley found 44 subjects out of 89 experi
ments who read correctly mottoes which had been enclosed in sealed
nutshells; Dr. Quintard presented a child of seven who discovered
at the first attem pt a hidden object, the page of a dictionary opened
haphazard by its mother, the number, kina and even the date of coins
contained in a purse, etc.
Another instance of clairvoyance, or rather of thought-reading,
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
was supplied some time ago b y Otto Kahn, a German, and we quote
it because it is of interest owing to the number of well-known persons
present a t the experiment which is reported by a great newspaper on
the 8th April, 1025, as follows:—
“ Mr. Otto Kahn, who had been introduced to Mr. Charles Richct
of the Institute, to Professor Cun£o, surgeon at Laribois&re, to Eugene
Osty, head of the Metapsychical Institute, was invited by Mr. Morain,
the Prefect of Police, to a reception a t which were present Mr. Louis
Barthou, Mr. Loucheur, Mr. Lescouvl, Mr. Schoeaerlin and others,
in all twelve persons, who were asked each to write a sentence on a
piece of paper folded in eight and kept in the closed hand of the writer.
When this had been done, Mr. Kahn asked those present to exchange
the papers as they liked without opening or reading them. Whereupon
he told the contents of each paper and the name of its writer.
To the amazement of those present, who were more or less sceptical,
he made no mistake (except in the case of one word which had been
badly written and where he read ‘ filou * instead of ‘ felon'), and
they were forced to recognise the remarkable power which Mr. Otto
K ahn shares with Bert Reese, Ossociecki and a few others.”
Flammarion, amongst hundreds of other cases, quotes so-called
premonitory dreams in which the subject during his sleep saw places
unknown to him the description of which was subsequently admitted
to be correct, or hastened to the assistance of some person seen, who
subsequently was found to be in danger. Doctors Despine, Chardel,
Charpignon and scores of others tell of visions a t a distance, of cases
of somnambulistic lucidity in great numbers. These cases are some
times related to telepathy owing to which people have learnt of a death
by the sudden appearance of the deceased at the very moment when
he drew his last breath, to thought transm ission, to presentim ents, etc.
In his well-known book H ypnotism and S piritu alism , Lombroso
who, owing to his scientific education was at first hostile to Spiritualism,
but, convinced of its truth after having seen and studied numerous
and undisputablc facts (from 1882 onwards) subsequently believed
in it, quotes the following:—the prophetic lucidity of a girl of about
fifteen who foresaw events which took place two years later, the case
of Estelle de Neufchatcl, who was paralysed at the age of eleven, and
in whom by means of magnetism the sense of hearing was transferred
to the hands, the shoulders and the epigastrium ; the case of the young
E. B. de Nocera (aged 20) who reproduced drawings made behind him
whilst his eyes were bandaged; the case of Miss Crellin who, having
lost a diamond, saw in a dream the corner where she had dropped it
and found it there the next day ; the case of Miss Arabella Barret who
was told by her sister in a dream that she would die at the end of five
FROM MAGNETI SM TO S P I R I T I S M 455
466
years, and this happened, etc., etc. I t is this book which contains
the experiments of the famous criminologist with the well-known
Eusapia Paladino (there were 17 stances in Milan in 1892) which were
tested and verified by Aksakof, Richet, Finzi, Gerosa, Schiapparelli,
du Prel and others, all scientists of recognised integrity; but here
we are in the special realm of mediumship of which we shall speak
later on.
Dr. Luys observed cases of the transmission to a distance, of the
feelings from one hypnotised person to another.1 Doctors Bourru
and Burot about the year 1887 obtained the action of medicaments
at a distance. Jagot induces a subject to guess what a certain Mend
of his will do on the morrow, going so far as the settlement of a pending
m atter; another guesses the time shown by a watch placed on his
head; he also relates several cases of psychometry.
Psychometry, of which we have already spoken, is a phenomenon
by which a clairvoyant, on touching an article, will tell its history as
if he found the record written on it. Sometimes the psychometrist
takes the hand of a person (for there must always be contact) and
reads a part of his destiny.* The former Cur6 of Ars, Abb£ Vianney,
had this strange gift. Laure Raynaud, who died in 1924, was well-
known on the same account. G. DurvUle relates how in 1918 during
a motor-car race she told him the winners in their correct order out
of 88 competitors. Mr. Phaneg is at the present moment one of our
best known psychometrists. *
Cases of Intentional clairvoyance likewise abound. This is usually
obtained by fixing the eye on a crystal ball. Miss Angus was a crystal
gazer,4 a method which recalls the visions of the magicians of old
in magic mirrors. B ut there are other objects which are used in
clairvoyance, and on this we again quote Paul C. Ja g o t:—
“ Our modem pythonesses fairly often use coffee grounds or the
white of egg instead of crystal balls or polished surfaces. They interpret
according to definite rules the shapes resulting from the pouring of
these substances from a height into a cup. Everyone who has taken
the trouble to study this method of divination knows th at some of its
practitioners at times obtain both as to the past and as to the immediate
future information which is strictly accurate, too detailed and too
connected to be entirely accounted for by the interpretation of the
rudimentary shapes in question.
“ The surfaces looked into are analogous to the classic tools of
1 Soe Emotions in Hypnotics and Lectures on Hypnotism.
• This is the case with Mr. de Fleuri&ro, a clairvoyant with whom Hr. Osty is at present
experimenting.
• See his Method of Psychometric Clairvoyance.
• Andrew Land, Visions in tie Crystal. See also in our Second Part, magic mirrors.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
FROM MAGNETI SM TO S P I R I T I S M 457
clairvoyance. I t would seem, therefore, th at here too we are faced
with a phenomenon of metagnomy. As much might be said of carto
mancy. Although the Taroc contains in its 78 leaves and in a very
clear though symbolical form all possible predictions, yet it would lie
impossible to make use of it successfully without some gift of second
sight. Pins, the white of eggs, coffee grounds and Taroc cards would
in short seem to be merely so many means of inducing the metagnomic
faculty to act."
We quote these daring though not improbable explanations of
clairvoyance, also th a t of Leadbeater:—“ We arc," says this theosophist,
“ bathed in an ocean of air and ether which penetrates us as it penetrates
all physical m atter, and it is by means of vibrations th a t impressions
reach us. Now the numbers of vibrations to which we are able to
react is very small. Amongst the extremely rapid vibrations there
is an exceedingly small section to which our retina reacts, and the
vibrations of this section produce in us the sensation called light. In
the same manner our tympanum only reacts to a very limited range
of comparatively slow vibrations acting on the air (sound). B ut there
are very maiiy other kinds of vibrations (electricity, magnetism, etc.)
above and below these two sections, which only few people (clair
voyants) can perceive.”
Thought can therefore be transmitted by waves, as in Wireless
Telepathy. It can be projected into space (and this is proved by the
foregoing cases) towards a definite aim or not. Telepathy flows from
the subsconscious whence comes the fluid which is able, both in a waking
state and in sleep, to leave the body and to exteriorise itself to the
extent of affecting photographic plates and registering apparatus.
These invisible radiations can therefore exert an influence at a
distance, transm it thought, extend very far and with a speed which
is almost instantaneous. It is in this way that we might be able to
explain the apparitions related above, the sound of a familiar voice
of a beloved person suddenly heard from a great distance, etc.
The well-known scientist Crookes set up a scientific theory of
brain waves, different from Spiritualism but resembling it. These
waves, he thinks, may be transmitted across the ether from one brain
to the other, and evoke in the latter an image similar to the one which
gave it birth. B ut as this theory does not entirely account for crowd
hallucinations or foreknowledge, Myers set up another based on the
conception of psychic invasion which it would take too long to go
into here.
I t will be seen th at the problem is complex, of enormous interest,
still obscure, but it is impossible not to state it. And we have not
dealt with the foreknowledge which we mentioned just now, or with
E
resentiments differing from telepathy in that they have a motive, the
itter being unexpected. In a moment we shall tell of the miracles of
mediumship. Stall more surprising than the phenomena produced
by this is the fact that they should be neglected by thousands of people,
or simply denied in the same way as a blind man might deny the
gorgeous or the dark beauty of a landscape in which he finds himself
because, wrapt in his sad night, he does not see it.
We do not think it necessary to add to the list of phenomena due
to or connected with Magnetism. We might for instance recall those
produced by the power of Fakirs, a power much greater than any known
m the West, those Fakirs and Yogis of India who are able, by their
strong will, to raise themselves unsupported in the air, to make a
plant germinate and grow in a few hours, to remain for days without
food or drink in an apparent death which is but a prolonged trance
(see our Second Part).
We might also discuss miracles and ask ourselves if they are pheno
mena due to Magnetism (which certainly has many seeming miracles
to its credit) or to a divine power. Let us merely recall the saying
of Anatole France who asked how a miracle can be said to be a
“ transgression of natural law s" when these are not yet completely
known to us. And let us also remind believers who are somewhat
too anxious to account for them without thinking by the omnipotence
of God, that one single breach of the laws of nature entails, owing to
the complete inter-connection of all phenomena, a complete bream of
universal law.
B ut what would be the use? We do not say th a t a scientific
explanation of the miracles of Christ would mean bringing them to
the level of a vast deception, for, if accounted for by magnetism, they
would remain no less disturbing or less worthy of respect. We do
not say of Lourdes th at it is a hoax, or th at it is a definite proof of
celestial miracles. We smile at nothing, are indignant a t nothing.
We search and we wait.
However, what we have just seen leads us in truth to believe in
the reality of the soul, since Magnetism gives us material proof of it.
But it also alters our conceptions of it. Instead of looking upon it
as one and entirely spiritual, it seems, after these thousands of experi
ments, truer to look upon it as consisting of two parts, the one in truth
immaterial, imponderable, eternal, the seat of intelligence and of
will, and the other semi-material, fluid, acting as connecting link between
the body and the mind. I t is this impalpable covering which is the
seat of the subconscious and of those waves which are capable of
exteriorising themselves and of producing the surprising phenomena
which we have just reviewed.
458 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
FROM MAGNETI SM TO S P I R I T I S M 469
i n
M edium ship
This conception of the soul, to which we shall have to come back,
and which really is not new (as we have seen in our Second Part) will
enable us the better to understand a further series of phenomena,
namely those produced by mediums.
But first one word as to mediums themselves. We know that
they are persons whose nervous system has the peculiar power of
exteriorising their psychical energy. Mediumship is a physiological
faculty andnot a miraculousgift. I t has not o f necessity an y connection
w ith the m orality or the intellect o f the subject. And this statement,
made by spiritualists themselves, is of immense importance; for on
the onehand it is possible to find mediums who are capable ofcheating
(sometimes unconsciously)—no one will deny this—and on the other
hand this statement is strongly in favour ofthe veracity of phenomena
obtained in fact through mediums who, in their normal condition, are
entirely unable to utter the words or to perform the deeds uttered
or performed by them in a state of trance.
Knowing the possibility of cheating on the part of mediums, it
is sufficient to guard against them by taking the necessary precautions
and by surrounding them with rigorous checks; this has been done
by the eminent scientists who have experimented with them. Once
these phenomena have been admitted, it only remains to seek an
explanation. And this is the very crux of the matter. Some main
tain that they arc natural, and have no connection with any spiritualist
doctrine. Others claim that any material hypothesis is entirely
insufficient, and favour the spiritualist doctrine, as all the philosophies
andallpurelyanimistreligions, whilstadmitting,astheirnameindicates,
their belief in the existence of the soul, do not explain how these souls,
once disincarnated, are able to reveal themselves to us and influence
living beings by the aid of mediums who may be compared with those
instruments of physics which assist the senses and enable them to
penetrate farther into the phenomena and the laws of nature.
In passing let us mention the reply which Gabriel Delanne in his
Researches into M edium ship gives to those who, like Paul Janet, claim
to be able to obtain through hysterical subjects the same phenomena
as through mediums ( this with the intention of confounding the two):
—In the former, who are ill, and always women, the phenomena arc
only obtained after long delay and never except in the presence of
their usual magnetiser, and they never relate anything except facts
known to them; in the case of the latter, men or women of normal
health, the phenomena are produced spontaneously, consciously, and
theinformationgivenmayrelateto mattersofwhichtheyknownothing.
460
It is also said:—Among the Spiritualists there is either a good
dealofdelusionora smallamountoftrickery. Thenumerousscientists
who have pledged their scientific honour in books signed by them
and relating what they have seen cannot all be described as idiots,
madmen, scoundrels or sufferers from hallucinations. We have
quoted many in these pages, and there are scores of others. Their
authority seems to us to be worth at least as much as the derision or
the denial of those who have studied nothing, witnessed nothing or
who, even if honest, have not had the opportunity of being present
at conclusive experiments. There, as everywhere else, success does
not always come. But would youdeny the existence of flying because,
on the occasion of your visit to an aerodrome, you are unable to see
a flight because the plane is temporarily out of order?
Tables only turn, say the unbelievers, when one of those present
is cheating. Others, less unkind, say, they may turn and rise, but
it is becausethe chain ofhands producesattraction. All that is legend.
Mediums have been known to move tables and other objects without
touching them. But we are in the following going to give a brief list
of phenomenadue to mediums, fromthe simplest to the most complex.
They are numerous, varied, but capable of classification. We have
only included phenomena of undoubted authenticity and sincerity.
The scope ofthis volume does not allowusto give all the tests to which
they have been submitted, the accounts of whichrunto scores of pages
and sometimes to a whole volume (they will be found in books entirely
devoted to these questions and which are sufficient to furnish a whom
library!) Wearenotevenableto mentionallthe classesofphenomena,
but must confine ourselves to a few.
First of all the phenomena of percussion. Too often only the word
raps is used. This does not describe all these noises which are most
varied, sometimes resembling a crackling, a scratch with a pin, a
series of sounds like those of an induction machine, or detonations,
metallic sounds, kinds of murmurings; these noises are at times also
produced in atree, awall, a stretchedthread, on a pane of glass, a tam
bourine,etc. Wementionthisinanswertotheobjectionthat themedium
produces these raps with his feet, his nails, or by cracking his joints.
Not being able to deny these strange sounds, Babinet, Faraday
and Chevreul tried to give the usual scientific explanation. They
never succeeded. To .each explanation Crookes replied by an experi
ment, either with Kate Fox or with Home, his chief mediums. He
proved, and this is important, that these sounds, which are due neither
to illusion nor to trickery, are in fact governed by an intelligence; and
this intelligence is not that of the medium, for in the experiments
where these raps become a language, it has been proved that the
answers could not possibly have been given by the medium if he had
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
not been in a trance, and sometimes they were such th a t they could
not have been suggested by any one present.
I t is well known th a t a table is not at all necessary in order to
obtain mediumistic replies. As a m atter of fact its alphabet is incon
venient. For a long tune now it has been superseded by the planchette
with three feet, one of which is fitted with a pencil. Ana here we
have yet another class of phenomena—automatic writing. A medium
whilst in a trance and without the intervention of another will (the
reason for this is to avoid the possibility of thought transmission)
gives answers to questions put by words which, put together, make
sentences (experiments of Aksakof). I t will also draw, paint, etc.,
all this of course being of interest only if in awaking state the particular
medium is unable to perform these acts, and if the answers are adm itted
to be correct whilst relating to things of which the medium is ignorant.
Obcon1and Crookes claim to have seen the hand which moved the pencil.
Weber, Schreiber, Zdllner repeated these experiments in Germany;
other scientists produced them in other countries. An author, William
Howitt, wrote a whole book in a state of trance and without thinking
of it. Sometimes the medium writes backward with an incredible
speed {[experiments by Myers, DevoDuet, etc). William Crookes had
a medium, K ate Fox, who would write automatically a message for
one person present whilst a second message on a different subject was
given to her by another person by means of an alphabet rapped out,
and at the same time she would talk with a third person on a subject
entirely different from the two others.
Let us leave table turning* on one side, but mention the phenomena
of levitation. Mediums have been seen to lift solely by their psychic
force tables weighing some 60 pounds to a height of one, two and even
three yards, and they have moved all kinds of articles without any
contact. Others play the piano well without ever having learnt it.
Delanne on his Researches on Mediums quotes hundreds of cases each
more extraordinary than the last, and each duly vouched for. Georges
Aubert has related the experiments made with him in 1905 by the
learned members of the General Psychological Institute. There would
be no end to the list of cases and proofs contained in the books of Leon
1 The pseudonym of the Reverend Stainton Moses.
* Tables torn from right to left as do the stars, thus obeying the cosmic law. And hero
we would draw attention to the extraordinary tendency of moving towards the right. In man,
a false movement is generally compensated for by the right arm or the right foot. To catch
an article the right hand is the first to be used. All nations write with the right band, even if
the writing goesfrom the rightto the leftse in HebruworArabic, orfrom tho top to the bottom
as in Chinese or Japanese. We instinctively walk on the right hand aide, and turn to tire right
when meeting another. The general belief sees in the East, that is on the right, health, hoqe,
joy, and in the West trouble and sorrow. It is horn the right that the invasions come which
renew the strength of the West. It is from tho right, the East, the Rising Sun that the lofty
Eastern philosophy comes which is to bring us salvation.
FROM MAGNETI SM TO S P I R I T I S M 461
Denis (/« the Invisible), J. Maxwell (Psychical Phenomena), Gabriel
Delanne (M aterialised A pparitions o f L iving and D ead), Dr. Dupouy
{Beyond L ife) and a score of others which we have perused with ever
growingastonishmentandemotion. Forhereweareatthe verysummit
of the extraordinary. In absolutely serious stances there have been
seen to appear at the call of the medium hands, faces, busts, whole
bodies having the appearance of life. These hands touch, caress,
knock, move articles, play musical instruments; these faces become
animated, smile or weep, these bodies move. I t has been possible to
photograph these apparitions. Casts have been taken of them. Reports
have been signed by persons who are too eminent for the least doubt
to be cast ontheirgoodfaithortheirlucidity. Even ifthe spiritualistic
explanation is not accepted, and it is difficult to find any other, the
facts themselves remain patent, indisputable, and none has the right
to attack them.
462 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
IV
We must return to the spiritualistic explanation to deal with it
fully, first stating that it arose in America in 1846 as the result of
strange phenomena which took place in a house at HydeviUe,
N.Y., which was actually haunted, and that it was subsequently
introduced into Europe through the zeal of the tireless thinker Allan
Hardee who collected and collated all the teachings of the philosophers
connected with the conception of the survival of the soul ana the
possible communication between the living and the dead.
Accordingto Spiritualism, as wehavesaid, the humanbeingconsists
not oftwoparts but ofthree—thevisiblebody,the invisiblesoul(ormen
tal body) andthe semi-materialperisprit(orastral body). It isthefluid
but perceptible perisprit which seemsto beevidenced by mediumship.
A. P. Synnett in his Occult W orld goes so far as to say that the soul
is a m aterial reality, only more ethereal, more subtle, more lastingthan
the body and which would fall within the realm of Physics if Physics
entered into greater harmony with the other sciences. Physics deny
the materiality of the soul on the mere ground that it is unable to
ascertain its atomic basis and its affinities. But a more sensitive
Physics may one day be able to measure the human fluid just as it is
able to measure electricity, which also is not perceptible to some of
our senses, and as it already is able to measure light and to give us its
approximate speed.
However this may be, this is what Spiritualism thinks of the three
human elements:—The body fulfils the functions relating to the
mechanism of life and called physiological. The mental body, the
soul, is the scat of the psychological faculties of thought, of reasoning,
of the phenomena of consciousness, of the determination of action.
463
The perisprit is mainlythe master ofsleep, but it also takes part in the
operations of the mental body and is the cause of certain dualities
from which they suffer, in particular of the struggle between the con
scious and the subconscious.
We note in passing that it is this subconscious which, influenced
by astral magnetism, enables Astrology, and also Chiromancy, to
snow us the trend of our destiny, which destiny the soul is able to
modify by the power of the will; it is this subconscious which enables
Graphology to describe our character, our tendency, because without
our knowledge it influences the instinctive movements of the hand
which holds the pen; it is through the subconscious alone that the
obscure truth born from the handling of cards and Tarocs may be
explained; it is also through the subconscious that we have presenti
mentsandthatwe canvaguelyexplainoracles, the kabbalisticinfluence
of numbers, of names, etc., in short everything which is occult. When
this subconscious is thoroughly understood, the sciences of magic and
divination will have made a great advance.
According to the Spiritualists, the soul at the moment of death
leaves the body with the perisprit and lives for a short time in the
supraterrestrial world, in the Invisible. There it meets other good
and evil spirits, souls in a higher or lower stage of evolution. It is
especially at this time that it is able to communicate with the living
near whom it remains, as it might be said seemingly to have some
difficulty m leaving the atmosphere m which it has spent a number
of years. Then it is reincarnated, begins here or elsewhere anew
planetary life, then later another and yet another, until the day when
it attains perfection and bliss.
The doctrineofreincarnation, aswillbe seen, is newer, moremodern,
more intelligent and nearer to the truth than the old doctrine of
metempsychosis which in fact was its precursor. But metempsychosis
admitted the possibility of the transmigration of the soul into animals.
Spiritualismdoesnotadm it such a retrogression. ^Foundedontheprinciple
ofevolution,itsaysthatthesouleverrises fromincarnationtoincarnation
until thetime when, becomepure sp irit, it willenter into the Divine.
According to Leadbeater, who has written a short but excellent
sketch of.Theosophy, of which he is one of the leaders, the soul at
each reincarnation clothes itself successively with the mental body,
the astral body and the physical body which it leaves in the same
order when it passes from one life to another. In each life it acquires
an amount of knowledge and of abilities which it adds to its former
possessions. And it is for the very reason that complete truth and
complete perfection are so difficult to acquire that several lives are
necessary. Hume, MaxMuller, Huxley, allthese greatthinkersexpress
the same opinion. In the opinion of theosophists this hypothesis of
FROM MAGNETI SM TO S P I R I T I S M
466
d if f e r e n c e o f o p i n io n b e tw e e n S p i r i t u a l i s t s a n d T h e o s o p h i s t s , w h ic h m a k e s
i t n e c e s s a r y t o u s e t w o w o r d s t o e x p r e s s o n e a n d t h e s a m e d o c tr i n e .
W e c o u ld n o t d o b e t t e r i n t h i s c o n n e c t i o n t h a n r e f e r t o a n a r t i c l e
o n t h e s u b j e c t b y M is s A n n i e B l e c h w h i c h i s s h o r t l y a s f o l lo w s :—
M is s B l e c h , w h o w a s a s p i r i t u a l i s t b e f o r e b e c o m i n g a t h e o s o p h i s t ,
d o e s n o t d e n y S p i r i t u a l i s m , b u t s e e s i t s d a n g e r s a s f a r a s m e d i u m s
a r e c o n c e r n e d . I n t h i s r e s p e c t s h e s a y s v e r b a t i m :—
I n th e s u b tle w o rld w hich in te rp e n e tra te s o u rs, a n d w h ich w e call th e
a s tr a l w orld, th e re a re ele m en tal forces d a n g ero u s to s e n sitiv e b e in g s ; th e re
a re h u m a n e n titie s no less to be feared , ev en w h e n th e y c a n n o longer m an ifest
th e m se lv e s in a p h y sic al b o d y . T h e ir s u b tle b o d y h u n g e rs, so to sp eak , a f te r
p h y sic a l life, longs to asso ciate itself w ith a b o d y w h ic h is a b le to g iv e th e m
th is. I f th e m ed iu m is n o t p ro te c te d , his h a b itu a l p a s s iv ity a n d re c e p tiv ity
m ak o h im a re a d y p re y , ex p o sin g h im to o bsessions, y e a e v e n to possession.
A n d a s a m o n g S p iritu a lis ts e v e ry p o ssib le e n c o u ra g e m e n t is g iv e n t o th e
m ed iu m , ho is d riv e n to th is p a ssiv ity w h ich so o n tu r n s h im in to a d o cile tool
o f th o forces o f th e b ey o n d , a n d a t th e sa m e tim e h e ru n s se rio u s risk s b o th
m o ral a n d p h y sical.
H ow m a n y in sa n e p e rso n s h a v e b e g u n b y b e in g m e re ly o b se sse d ! I
h a v e m y se lf received so m a n y p o ig n a n t a n d tra g ic co n fid en ces, so m a n y
re q u e sts for h elp so m etim es to o la te , t h a t I d o n o t th in k I go to o fa r in a sse rtin g
th is d a n g er.
I n o rd e r to k eep th e m ed iu m from it, h e w o u ld h a v e t o b e p ro te c te d n o t
m e re ly b y o u tsid e influences, b u t also b y h is ow n life— a p u re l if e ; also b y
p u re fo o d , d rin k , a n d s u rro u n d in g s ; m a n y c o n d itio n s, a s w ill b e s e e n ; o r
b y a s tro n g ly te m p e re d w ill, w h ich is ra re ly fo u n d a llie d t o p a ssiv ity . T hese
c o n d itio n s g e n e ra lly keep ev il e n titie s a w a y ; p u r ity re p u lse s th e m , a n d
s tro n g w ill is a sh ield a g a in s t w hich th e ir s tre n g th w e a rs its e lf o u t.
F u r th e r d a n g ers th r e a te n m ed iu m s, a n d h e re I a m m a in ly th in k in g o f
m ed iu m s w ith m a te ria lisa tio n . E x p e rim e n te rs v e ry o fte n p la y w ith fire.
C o m p letely ig n o ra n t o f th e p sy ch o lo g y o f th e m ed iu m , th e y su b m it h im to
te s ts w h ich serio u sly com prom ise his h e a lth , so m e tim es e v e n h is life. M a d a m e
d ’E sp e ra n c e , a n a u th e n tic a n d re m a rk a b le m ed iu m , w h o se b o o k I h a v e
tra n s la te d , w ro te to m e o n e d a y t h a t n e v e r a g a in w o u ld sh e m a k e e x p e ri
m e n ts w ith sc ie n tists w h o m ig h t b e re co m m en d ed to h e r, fo r o n e o f h e r b e s t
frie n d s, h e rself a m ed iu m , h a d j u s t d ied a s th e re s u lt o f im p ru d e n c e s c o m
m itte d d u rin g a scientific sp iritu a lis tic sta n c e .
S c ie n tists, w h ilst believing themselves to b e m o re q u alified t h a n o th e rs
to e x p e rim e n t w ith m ed iu m s, a re o ften less so, fo r a m a te u rs m a y in t h i s co n
n e c tio n h a v e a know ledge re su ltin g from n u m e ro u s e x p e rim e n ts , w h ich
sc ie n tists m a y n o t h a v e in sp ite o f th e ir sp ecial s tu d ie s a n d e x p e rie n c e . A n d
t h a t is w h y th e e x p e rim e n ts o f th e S o rb o n n e, so m u ch ta lk e d a b o u t, d o n o t
p ro v e a n y th in g a t a ll a n d c a n n o t, in m y h u m b le o p inion, b e s a id to c o n tro v e rt
th e o b se rv a tio n s m a d e in th is p a rtic u la r case b y sev eral p e rso n s w h o were
w ell q u alified b y th e ir ex p erien ce a n d g ifte d w ith q u a litie s w h ic h a r e indis
p e n sa b le to a n e x p e rim e n te r in p sy ch ic sciences.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
If I refer to these stances at the Sorbonne, I am at the same time thinking
of other stances, where other mediums have suffered under excessive and
unskilful tests, or else have in tenth worn themselves out in vain efforts,
sometimes falling victim to suggestion. Is not a passive sensitive being
more apt than any other to yield to repeated, if sometimes unconscious,
suggestion ? If he yields, he is unmasked, and henceforth a prey to suspicion;
if he resists, often no further phenomena are produced, and for a professional
medium this is a catastrophe. Besides, in tne case of many sensitives the
very fact that they are surrounded by suspicion and not by sympathy as
they ought to be, is not favourable to the production of phenomena. Some,
for instance Eusapia Paladino, ask for sympathy; even when in a trance
it is necessary, indispensable to them.
This question of the professional medium ought to be solved in the best
possible way. At present it is demoralising.
A second divergence of views is shown by Miss Blech, who says
elsewhere:—
We believe in survival, we believe in the influence to a certain extent
of the other world on ours. We believe in the possibility, though more re
stricted than allowed by Spiritualists, of communication between the living
and the dead by means of their methods. But we do not think it useful or
beneficial continually to call up the departed, by writing or by table turning,
to try to bring them within our ambit. Considering the very limited means
they possess for the purpose of manifesting themselves, we can only obtain
communications which are rather vague, often commonplace and without
any interest. Only seldom can they give satisfactory details. Eight times
out of ten it is a case of auto-suggestion, of subconscious manifestations or
—of trickery. So much for us!
As forthem, to callthem up, to bring them continuallyto usin orderto ask
their advice—which in their lifetime weshould not have followed—isdisturbing
and delaying their post mortemevolution. For they have their path to follow
as we have ours. Why should we compel them to live in the past ? Even
if they are not forced to do so by automatic writing or by planchette, they
none the less often dwell with us in thought, always loving. By constantly
drawing them into our terrestrial ambiance we to some extent materialise
them and we revive their regrets.
Without taking into account, adds Miss Blech, that in some cases
of abnormal death (violent or tragic) the evocation may cause to the
victim, who is plunged into a kind of post-mortem torpor, a sudden,
premature and very painful awakening.
Conclusion:—Supposing that Spiritualism is true, let us be very
careful with experiments, only accepting them for the purpose of
demonstration; but let us avoid too many manifestations.
popular saying may well be recalled here and adapted to the
dawning faith:—“ Let tne dead sleep in peace.” Better say, “ Let
the dead proceed in evolution in peace.”
FROM MAGNETI SM TO S P I R I T I S M 467
CHAPTER II
Co n c l u s i o n
The Coming Religion—Elements o f Theosophy
Is it possible to draw a conclusion from the m atter and the ideas con
tained in this book?
We think so, but hasten to say that it will be but provisional.
I t will be provisional because it will contain, when the facts are
K
ut on one side, only an attempt at philosophy, a certain amount of
ypothesis, an effort at personal deduction. More modest than in
numerous dogmatising scientists or the acknowledged representatives
of existing religions, who all contradict and when necessary anathematise
each other, we shall not set up an orthodoxy of our own. We shall
confine ourselves to saying:—
W hat we are going to lay before you is but a theory. B ut it is
a theory which is possible, probable, in harmony with thousands of
minds and innumerable experiments. It is a very living theory and
which may therefore be perfected so as to become a quasi-certainty.
I t seems to us that this quasi-certainty will be reached as and when
these experiments become more numerous, more authentic, as and
when eminent thinkers become more interested in it and increase in
numbers until they form the majority, as and when Science, becoming
impregnated with Occultism, will constitute a kind of intellectual
heredity which little by little will make natural and simple everything
which to-day amazes, disturbs, shocks our mentality, our conceptions,
our ways of understanding.1
Once more let us point out that the conquest of Official Science
is progressing. How much progress has been made since the year
(1887) when it solemnly rejected Magnetism as an im posture! As
we have seen, the hyperpsychical sciences have been and are being
more and more studied by scientists who are known and respected by
a ll; books without number, copious reports have been signed by men*
* We cannot resist quoting these words spoken in 1889 by the medium Piper, taken down
by Dr. Hodgson and recalled by Conan Doyle in the preface of his book The New Revelation
" In the nest century Spiritualism will be astoundingly accessible to human understanding.
I foretell you besides a thing of which you will confirm the fulfilment. A terrible war overturning
the variousparteoftheworld, will precede the obvioueperception of ourrelations with the Beyond/’
468
of the greatest eminence. No one can to-day in good faith doubt the
existence of disturbing phenomena which infer the existence of a
psychic fluid capable ofgivingrise to marvels, doubt the reality of what
—even giving it another name—was called the soul, a knowledge of
the latter different from the old formula, in short a very strong pre
sumption in favour of reincarnation.
Further the doctrine of Reincarnation by its essentials links up the
old and the new spiritualistic religions and incorporates itself with
the normal conclusions of Occultism which itself henceforth presents
a homogeneity, atradition, aconnectedwholewhichare most surprising
and most seductive. It accepts the higher Magic, the deeply studied
Kabbala, the arts of Divination if we do not ask from them a too
narrow and too childish exactness. A man is called an Occultist if,
rising above exoteric religions and prejudices, he constructs with the
help of the elements of the Occult Sciences, like Rudolph Steiner and
like Michael Savigny, an explanatory and interpreting system of the
Universe and its laws.
And it is this Occultism, in which so many eminent minds, whilst
still more or less tied to old formulae of philosophy and religion, are
already to be met, and also a large number of educated men, anxious
to have a clearer, more rational, more comforting and freer faith than
that in which their youth was reared, it is this Occultism which con
stitutes what we call the coming Religion.
' This religion is still in course of formation, consisting of scientific,
spiritualistic, theosophical data, which have been collected and co
ordinated round the central idea of Reincarnation, but still wary in
setting up its catechism andfriendly to all persons ofgood will. Hence
it is only its chief elements that we shall try to state here.
Above all we must insist on this—that Occultism, the religion of
the future, states as its first principles the negation o f the supernatural
and the negation o f chance.
Oh, some will say, we were convinced that the Occultist was really
a flycatcher, without any critical sense, ready to believe in miracles,
to collect the simplest coincidences, belatedly superstitious whilst
quick to pretend to science I Is it not thus that he appears in various
books, such as The Supernatural in the 20th Century by Constantin
and Mavgrier?
We Know the book. Alas! it says exactly the opposite of what
ought to be said. It makes the supernatural the basis of Occult
Science, assigns a diabolical origin to metapsychical occurrences, and
accepts miracles, the sign of providence! Whereas the Occultist,
we repeat it with Joanny Bricaud, repulses the supernatural (hence
the miracle) and rejects chance. This means that he is not a mystic 1
CONCLUSI ON 469
470
He only labours to extend the realm of experiment, to search for the
law behind the occurrence, to explore the invisible so as to suppress
its mystery.
This shows clearly the meaning to be given to the word Religion
when applied to Occultism. I t implies merely a t the moment of its
trium ph the explanation of the origin and of the destiny of the Universe
and of Man, and of the moral concurrent w ith this explanation.
How does Occultism expect to arrive a t this explanation? By
experiments, by deductive and inductive methods, and by an inter
mediary method which does not take their place bu t adds to their
possibilities—the method of analogy.
The lam o f analogy is as old as the world, being already stated in
The Emerald Tablet of Hermes Trismegistes w ithout being confounded
w ith similitude (a thing analogous to another almost never resembles
it), and is much used in Occultism to arrive a t the relationship existing
between phenomena.
Amongst other laws dear to the Occultist, and in addition to those
of the Binary, the Quaternary, the Septenary, and especially the
Trinary, with which we have already dealt, the following m ust be
noted:—
The law o fthe series. This is the law which requires an interm ediary,
or a resultant, between two opposed poles. I t also depends from the
Ternary. For instance, Day and Night, with Twilight between the two—
the Tepid between the H ot and the Cold—Balance between A ttraction
and Repulsion—the Liquid between the Solid and the Gaseous, etc.
The occultist Louis Lucas has applied this law to almost all phenomena,
whether physical, chemical or biological. This is the law which, in
addition to the proofs given, and by analogy, supports the idea of a
perisprit between the body and the soul.
The lam o f involution and evolution. B y its aid we see the Active,
whose essence is unity, attracted by the Passive, whose essence is the
multiple, the Passive absorbing the Active and disseminating it in
order th a t each atom may be vivified. This is involution. Thereupon
the created spirit becomes polarised in m atter which in its turn evolves,
becomes spintualised and returns to unity. This is evolution. This
law o f aspiration and respiration, as it has also been called, expresses
and explains the fall and the re-ascent of Man who springs from the
Divine and will one day return to it. As has been seen, this is sym
bolised by the Taroc in expressive images.
The law o f correspondences. This was brought to the fore especially
by Swedenborg. The word correspondence is applied^ to everything
which, in the natural world, exists following a thing in the spiritual
world. W ith it is connected the sign-manual which is the sign of the
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
influence of the spiritual on the physical and forms the basis of all
arts of Divination.
The lam ofthe signs ofsupport. In order to act, Man m ust have the
support of a sign corresponding by analogy to his will. This is the
basis of the power of the human word (prayer, blessing, curse, incanta
tion). I t is the fundam ental law of Magic.
We shall find these laws again in the summing up of the occult
teaching, as we understand it, with which we intend to close this book,
apologising a t the same time for the repetition of various conceptions
scattered over the preceding pages.
According to the Occultist, ana according to the essence of Tradition,
M an'is formed, by the Ternary Law, of three main elements—the
physical body, the astral body (or perisprit) and the m ental body (or
soul in the usual sense of the word). The Hindus and the Egyptians
believed this fifteen centuries before Christianity. The K abbalists
taught it in the Middle Ages. Mediums have proved it by experiment.
I t is the astral body which directs our vital force, and it is through
it th a t cellular evolution takes place. I t is the double of the physical
body. I t has a fluid em anation (called aura )which is specially dense
round the fingers and the head. From it flow the mediumistic pheno
mena and the ectoplastic exudations.1 I t is the aura which is projected
in cases of telepathy. It is the astral body which, in some cases, is
able to leave the physical body and form apparitions, even at a distance.
The astral body, which never sleeps, is the servant of our dreams, and
enables us sometimes to do things in complete sleep (such as problems
solved in sleep, the explanation of the saying, “ the night brings
counsel,” the waking up at the exact tim e required, etc.) I t is neither
Intellect nor Conscience, but the strange ana dumb companion which
accompanies us until death.
By analogy to the astral body, the Occultist believes in the astral
plane, just as he believes in the physical plane (the Universe) and the
mental plane.
The astral plane or world is an interm ediary between the two
1 We have not spoken of ectoplasm (as to this see the remarkable book of Dr. Gustave
Gcley, former director of the International Metapaychical Institute, which was published by
Alcan in 1924), the curious phenomenon by which some mediums divide themselves by them
selves exteriorising a part o! their sensitiveness in the shape of a vaporous or solid substance
which, at first amorphous, eventually becomes a materialised apparition which may be photo
graphed and from which casts may even be taken. But how many phenomena we have had
to omit from this modest volume. It is needless to say that the experiments with ectoplasm
which were made by Geley with the mediums Kinski and Guzick were rigorously checked by
those present, by Professors Richet, Redainehe, etc., by Doctors Lassabliere, Humbert,
Laenuner, etc. In the above book many other experimentsare quoted, such as lightning coming
from the body of the medium Erto, cases of clairvoyance, etc. There is also a reply to tho well-
known failure of the experiment at the Sorbonne in 1922.
CONCLUSION 471
472
others; it is filled by the spiritual world just as it itself fills the physical
world. I t is therefore not a superposition, but a dose penetration
which has as its result th a t the astral world is the m anifestation of the
spiritual world, just as the physical world is the m anifestation of the
astral world (see, in our Second P art, the ingenious comparison of
Durville).
I t is the astral plane which receives impressions from the superior
place and carries them out on the inferior plane; it is the reflection
of the divine and transm its it to us.
Hence every thing is first born on the divine plane, being there
potentially, it then passes to the astral plane and is subsequently
created on the physical plane. The astral form engenders the physical
form, and can no more alter its type than a mould can change the
image which it reproduces.
Some occultists also believe th at every being projects its shadow
on to the astral plane, as it projects it on to the physical plane, and
th a t the astral world, like the physical world, is inhabited by various
beings, such as entities directing Hum anity, images formed by collective
aspirations, elementals, souls in the stage of evolution, etc.
W ithout going into these perhaps too hypothetical m atters, we
may say th a t it would be natural enough to locate on the astral plane
disin.cam ate souls awaiting reincarnation, and of this we will speak
later
As to elementals, these are supposed to be, being capable of being
influenced by us, fluid cells, called in olden times the spirits of the
elements (gnomes, sylphs, undines, etc.) or the forces of nature. These
elementals enter into us with food; they are good or b ad ; _ they rule
our functions (it is they which are acted upon by magnetism for the
purpose of regenerating or healing); they inspire our passions, especially
the low er; they are the tools of W itchcraft; often they are evil and
vicious. Such a t least is the theory ofPapus,of the Rosicrucians, of the
M artinists.
One word now as to Theosophy. And let us say a t once th a t the
latter (we keep to its best known, its most “ official ” form, th a t of
the Theosophist Society which reflects the teaching of its most dis
tinguished exponent, Mrs. Annie Besant) does not formulate dogmas,
but offers a field of study by subm itting to our thoughts a complete
system of Cosmogony.
This cosmogony it bases on Tradition which it renews through
modem thought drawn from the sources of experimenting, of intuition,
of deduction and of analogy:—Theosophy is bom of the Occult Mind.
Theosophy teaches:—(1) the existence of God, giving, however,
to this word the larger meaning of Divine Principle, giver of life,
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
dwelling within us and w ithout us, eternal and benevolent, invisible
and yet perceptible; (2) the immortality o f man and his continual
ascent; (8) the certainty of an absolute justice governing the world,
and consequently making man his own judge, nis own arbiter, dis-
[tensing to himself reward or punishment, in accordance with a fatidic
aw which yet leaves him his free w ill.1
This shows the main differences between Theosophy and a religion
such as C hristianity:—A God, yes, but not outside us, and in no event
a judge who rewards or punishes according to whether he has been
obeyed or offended. The conception of heaven or hell is repugnant
to the theosophist as being imbued with anthropomorpnism.
Im m ortality, yes, but of Man himself and not merely of the soul, of
Man who is reincarnated as many times as is necessary until, under
the law of K arm a and of absolute justice, he reaches celestial bliss,
the reabsorption into the Divine, the Perfect, into U nity (law of in
volution and of evolution).
From the three above-mentioned truths the Theosophist con
cludes :—
Nothing is due to Chance. In spite of appearances, everything works
with intelligence and exactness for good, even unpleasant things,
according to a divine plan of progress; hence the necessity of under
standing this plan, of collaborating in it. Man m ust always take this
point of view, for his life on earth is but one moment out of his eternal
life; there is no death, or rather it is but a step from one rung of the
ladder to another. Behind him Man has his past, made up of his
actions whether good or evil, and each entailing an inevitable reaction,
and before him he has his future, a continual ascent tow ards Im prove
m ent, towards Perfection.
And the following practical consequences:—
This full knowledge of Destiny alters the face of life, gives it a
direction.
The Theosophist learns to govern himself, to love better, to make
* It to this tow of nature, which enacts that every act shall bear in itself its own results,
that Hindu philosophy, and subsequently Theosophy (which has drawn much from it) has
called Karma, the law of Karma.
“ What to called Karma," says Georgcs-Anquetil in hto terrible and prophetic pamphlet-
novel,Salon Conduct* the Dance, that appalling fresco of contemporary vice, "to the sum total
of the merits and demerits acquired by a being. At each moment of hto evolution this Karma
to for him tho starting point of the future, the fount of all distributive justice.” 060,000,000
human beings in the Kast alone, he adds, believe in reincarnation as wo believe in the tow of
gravity; to them it represents the great inescapable tow which it to absurd even to discuss.
And this faith to common to all essential religions. Christ Himself said, " Verily, verily
I say unto you, unless a man to born again he cannot enter into the Kingdom of God.” (St.
John HI, 3.)
CONCLUSI ON 473
474 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
himself useful to himself and to the whole of H um anity, to face things
from a lofty and not a mean point of view, to overcome sorrow and
pain and to understand it, to free himself from the fear of death and of
an absurd hell, from all anxiety as to his future lot.
Let us go deeper, and always in accordance w ith theosophical
teaching:—
There is a God, but we m ust restore to Him his true meaning, lofty,
noble, disentangled from popular religious ideas. We m ust distinguish
between God tne principle and God the leader. God is in everything
and through everything. B ut in practice we m ust consider th a t
attribute of God which is more comprehensible to us than the Absolute.
I t is still God, but it is his directing power applied to our own U niverse;
this is w hat Theosophists call the Logos and to whom belong all the
good qualities attributed to God, his omniscience, his prescience, his
love for men, his wisdom, his omnipotence.
This Logos of our own Universe is the m aster of the plane from
which we terrestrials depend. And we terrestrials know th a t m atter
has varieties, one of which is ether known of scientists, another of
which, much more subtle, also proved by experiment (in especial by
the phenomena of mediumship) enables him to get into communication
with the Invisible, for it is the intermediary between our body and the
invisible.
Here we return to the data above examined, to the division of man
into three parts, body, soul and spirit (or perisprit), to the division
of the Universe into three worlds or planes, physical, astral and mental,
to the law of involution and of evolution which makes Man spring
forth from the Logos and makes him spring forth with his soul shrouded
in the perisprit. And here we are face to face with Incarnation, which
is the Logos descending into M atter, bearing within him potentialities
which from age to age we shall put to better use so th at, by an inverse
evolutionary process, we shall return to the Logos and so come to the
end of our activities.
Such is the doctrine of Theosophy, of which we can only say th at
it will become the basis of the Comtng Religion which will perfect it.
For details are lacking, and all fancy m ust be put on one side. Some
Occultists, in our opinion, go too far when they tell us of the intim ate
life of the spirits, when they draw up a somewhat hypothetical history
of Humanity, as for instance Mr. Steiner in his chapters on the cosmic
evolution of man (Occult Science TV, VI), or Mrs. Annie Besant in
475
her Genealogy o f M a n ,1when they tell us the part which the soul plays
during incarnation, as for instance Gabriel Delanne in A nim ist Evolution,
or when they rive us details of the civilisations of A tlantis, as for
instance C. W. Xeadbeater. (See also below the Adamite hypothesis
in the doctrine of the Hexagram).
On the other hand, if-the problem of Evil and of Sorrow is lit up
by the torch of Theosophy, the problems of morals rem ain dim . W hat
do these modern Sages think of free love, of suicide, of Bolshevism
leading to the nationalisation of the land, which is a seizure of property,
therefore robbery from the point of view of the bourgeois, of war
which is b u t collective murder, of the 800 per cent, profit of traders
who argue about freedom of trade, of the use of poisons, of the dud,
of the deliberate suppression of a tyrant, all these deeds being by
some called courage, cleverness, liberty, justice, by others cowardice,
crookery, ignominy, etc. ? In w hat circumstances do these deeds entail
a progress, in w hat others a retrogression on the astral m ain road ?
And w hat are we to think of the scoundrels who live sum ptuously
and die quietly, of the genius and the gentle mind who only m eet
w ith disgrace, poverty and despair ?
In any case th e beautiful words of the poet Leon Denis, one of the
warmest supporters of Occultism, rem ain tru e :—“ L et us learn to leave
the rigid boundaries (of the University and the Church) and to give
a free range to our thought. Every system contains a p art of the tru th ;
none contains the whole of it. The Universe and Lire have too many
and too varied sides for one system to be able to comprise them a ll
From these dissimilar conceptions we m ust extract the fragm ents of
tru th which they contain, collect them and classify them ; then uniting
them to the new and m ultiple aspects of tru th which we discover day
by day, proceed on our way towards the majestic unity and harmony
of thought.” *
And it is on these lofty counsels th a t we will dose both this chapter
and our book.
* To Mrs. Beaant belongs this farther carious idea (worked out in The World of to-momno)
that a Great Initiator is born in even age to lead ns book to the way of Truth. In her opinion
every age (or sub-race as she calls it) has its own. It was Hermes Trismegistea who appeared,
even several times, at each of the great emigrations of the peoples of the East towards the West
(refer as to this to oar note on Truth always coming bom the right). Then it was Zarathustra
(Zoroaster)in Persia, Orpheusin ancientGreece,Gautama,then Buddha,in India, Mosesamongst
the Jowb, finally Christ (here Mrs. Beaant claims that the word Christo* denotes not a man but
a deace among the initiates of the Orphean Mysteries, and that we most distinguish between
the identity of Jesus the Jew, and the Christ, the great teacher who came at Me own time, Mid
of whom Jeans the Jew was merely the disciple). The whole of that chapter should be read.
According to the author, a new Measiaa is for we are on the threshold of the time of
revival. And in fact the prestige which for less than a century Occultism has enjoyed leads
us to foresee a philosophio eta entirely different bom that which is dosing which was governed
by Materialism now decadent.
* The Problem of Being, of Dealing and of Borrow (Introduction).
CONCLUSI ON
476
We sincerely believe th at a New Religion is in course of formation,
the daughter of Ancient Thought and of Modem Criticism, and th a t
it will be found in an Occultism brought up to date, renewed, fertile,
living.
We insist on this word living. Many minds a t once exacting and
tim id will say, We only want to lean on a doctrine put forward as
certain, absolute, definite; this is our security, and this alone can
be a faith.
B ut, we reply, why do you for your spiritual repose require this
certainty which resembles the peace of the grave? Is not, on the
other hand, more living and lofty this continued research which ever
advances more and more towards light and tru th ? W hy do you call
a fault in the moral realm and on the moral plane w hat you consider
as a duty in the m aterial realm and on the m aterial plane? You
think th at continued progress is necessary in industrial science, and
you w ant philosophical science to remain motionless ? W hat a strange
contradiction.
N o! N o! Let us ever work, ever seek. This is called living.
This it is which constitutes our honour and ourjoy as human beings.
May this Encyclopaedia encourage you to direct your mind towards
the enormously interesting sciences which constitute Occultism, the
source of true happiness.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
APPENDICES
The realm of Occult Sciences is so considerable and so complex
that it has not always been possibleto us, in the course ofthis Encyclo
paedia, to dealwith certain usidelines ” whichareextremelyinteresting
in their relation tothe vast subject which fills the pages just perused.
They will be found in the form of notes which are mentioned in the
course of the book, so that they may be easily referred to, and they
form these Appendices which have the further advantage that they
can bringthe work up-to-date in the course of its successive editions.
N o t e I
Thinking Animals
Everyone knows trained anim als; they have in fact been always
known. Training goes back to the distant days of tam ing. B ut it
is not so very long ago, we believe, th a t it was tried not merely to train
animals, but to make them think. You see the difference. To be sure
the training of an anim al makes demands on its intelligence, but also
mainly on its memory. By repeating a performance it ends by re
membering it. And we have all seen very interesting and very amusing
instances of this, elephants, horses, dogs, cats, monkeys, donkeys,
etc., competing which shall best carry out its tricks in the circus.
Years ago learned geese roused much amusement. To-day we have
progressed. Men have succeeded in making animals, especially horses
and dogs, do sums and talk (it will be seen how). And this is not
a m atter of mere training.
I t was in 1890 th a t the Berlin breeder Van Osten succeeded in
making his horse H ans count by means of raps struck with his hoof.
On the death of his m aster, Hans passed into the hands of the dealer
K rall of Elberfeld, who already had two Arab stallions, Muhamed and
Zarif. These three horses soon became famous. They not only carried
out the four first rules, but were even able to extract square and cube
roots.
Of course K rall did everything necessary to avoid any unconscious
movement. H e gave his orders from behind a screen. D r. Mackenzie
even wrote a problem on a slate, placed it before the horse which
477
was alone in its stable, and went with friends to holes covered with
glass which had been made in the door. W ith its hoof the horse struck
the number of raps required and gave the correct answ er.1
Problems were also put to this horse by telephone, someone standing
by who did not know the particulars, but put down the reply, which
was correct.
B etter still, w ith the aid of a w ritten alphabet, the Elberfeld trio
were taught to read. And these astounding animals were able to
express their thoughts t A picture was shown to Muhamed and he
was asked, “ W hat is it f ” “ Girl,” he replied w ithout a mistake,
having previously been taught to read this word and to know its mean
ing. “ W hy is it a girl ? ” Reply, “ She has long hair.”
One day one of the horses refuses to work. “ W hy ? ” Reply,
“ I am tired.” These things seem impossible, or a t th e very least
tricks. No. Maurice Maeterlinck, amazed, relates his visit to the
Elberfeld horses in his Unknown Guest. Doctors Kraemer, Ziegler,
Sarasin and others, the great naturalist and philosopher Haeckel,
the neurologist Edinger, the famous professor Ostwald of Berlin,
Besredka of the Pasteur Institute in Paris, scores of others have seen,
acknowledged, assured th a t there was no trickery behind these
astounding facts.
Rolf, a lost dog of no pedigree, found by Moekel, a lawyer of
Mannheim, learnt counting by listening to his mistress teaching her
children. And Rolf, properly trained, also learnt w ith pleasure to
speak by means of an appropriate alphabet. He died in 1919, leaving
a puppy, Lola, who was just as remarkable. W ith this extraordinary
animal conversations like the following would take place:—
“Why do dogs like the company of humans?"
“ Because of your eyes in which unceasing cares are reflected.”
“Whatdodogsfeelwhentheyseethesecaresintheeyesofpeople ?”
Love.
Anotherprodigyis Senta,belongingto MissBockwold, whosucceeds
in multiplying 12 by 25, 25 by 38, etc., knows how many hours there
are in 480 minutes, how many days in 264 hours, therefore can not
only divide, but work out little problems, who recognises her photo
graph and says so, and takes part in conversationI
The cases we quote here are taken from an article by Mrs. Carita
Borderieux (in the Revue Benjamin of October, 1924) who herself has
a very well-known thinking dog, Zou, born on 26th January 1921.
We have ourselves seen Zou and have questioned him. He also knows
the four rules of arithm etic, and counts the tens on one paw, the units
on the other. In March, 1925, he knew his numbers up to 100, but
since has gone farther. He answers yes (3 raps) or no (2 raps) to
1 Anna's of Psychic Sciences, 1912.
478 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
questions, and as his mistress has made an alphabet for him in wood,
he speaks like Rolf, like Senta, and like Seppl on whom Dr. Ziegler wrote
a long article in Psychica (15th February 1925). Zou does not lie.
If he commits a fault, even in the absence of his m istress, he owns
up. H e likes to show off his knowledge, faces the general public, tells
his name, his age, etc. H e has appeared w ith success in Paris, in
Cherbourg, Nancy, Brussels, Ghent, etc. H e is very proud of it.
Conclusion:—Considering these facts which their rarity does not
invalidate, there is no doubt th a t dogs have a brain organised like
ours, but uncultivated, and which, in default of education, gives proof
but of natural intelligence. Many dogs m ight therefore develop their
faculties. And not only dogs, but probably all vertebrates, but
especially, of course, those which, through being tam ed, have come
nearer to our civilisation. I t would be interesting to try by selection
and patient teaching to try and create an educated animal heredity.
W hat results m ight we not achieve w ith our lower brethren (but not
lower than m any cretins) and w hat fresh sources of intellectuality
m ight we not discover 1
For us Occultists, thinking anim als1 are but one more proof of
the fact th a t there is no more essential difference between various
brains than there is between the atom s of m atter. Everywhere there
is Life and everywhere there is Thought, but rising from the imper
ceptible to the glorious fulfilment in the genius. U nity 1 U n ity !
This is the great word of ancient Wisdom, ana it will become the great
word of modern Knowledge.
A P P E N D I C E B 479
N o t e II
Secret Societies
In an Encyclopaedia like the present it is impossible to omit men
tioning Secret Societies. But as their history would require several
volumes, and at bottom is somewhat without our scope, we shall
confine ourselves to not forgetting them entirely and devoting to them
a few pages in this Appendix.
1 And we might nay speaking, for there is no doubt that some animats have a language
corresponding to their needs. Thu has been proved by Dr. Gamer who, it will be remembered,
studied the language of monkeys and was able to identify a certain number of words expressing
simple ideas, such as what is drank, what is eaten, what weather it is, danger of death, etc.
He writes:—
“ Monkeys know the relation of cause to effect, and their mode of reasoning differs from
that of man not in essence but only in degree. In order to reason we must think, and if it is
true that man cannot think without words, this must be equally true of the monkey ; hence
the necessity of expressing these thoughts by sounds which correspond to them and define
them.”
480 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
Besides it is only recently th a t the trail of Secret Societies, going
back to immemorial times, nas been discovered. 1
Even so we shall leave out ancient secret societies such as the
Eleusiana (a Pythagorean society), the Egyptian “ fraternities ” and
deal only w ith those which arose in the Middle Ages.
The Templars.—Their founders are Hugues de Payens and Godefroi
de Saint Omer, and their origin is due to the need of protection of the
pilgrims to Palestine against the Moslem assassins and robbers. Seven
K nights and their Chief took the monastic vows before the Patriarch
of Jerusalem ; a t once Baldwin II, King of Jerusalem assisted them
by giving them as residence the W estern part of his palace built in
the neighbourhood of the ruins of the Temple of Solomon. Hence
their name of Knights of the Temple, subsequently Templars.
In 1127 Hugues came to the W est and obtained the approval of
his Order by Pope Honorius II who gave him a special dress (white
cloak with red cross). The Council of Troyes drew up the statutes
of the new Order, based on the Rule of Saint Benedict. B ut the
Knights, being a t once m ilitary and not enclosed, soon broke vows
which were somewhat difficult to keep, first the vow of poverty, then
the vow of chastity. Large numbers of wealthy young men joined
the Order. Pride, greed, lust corrupted them . They received gifts,
and kept harems in Asiatic fashion. As they protected the Papacy,
the latter was indulgent to them, exempted tnem from the jurisdiction
of the Church, and finally induced them to come to the W est.
Of course there were, for the neophytes, initiation and reception
ceremonies of great pomp, a t night, in church, with vows, ritual,
etc.
As early as 1129 the Order established Branch settlem ents, beginning
in the Netherlands. In 1181 Alphonso of Aragon introduced it into
his country. In 1186 we have a branch in the Languedoc (at
Nougar&de).
In 1189 the Templars besieged Lisbon; in 1146 they took part
in the Spanish war against the M oors; in 1191 they bought the Island
of Cyprus.
The whole of the 12th century is full of their struggles with the
K nights of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem. The battle between
them in 1259 was one of the most murderous.
B ut the Order was to perish through itself and at the hand of Kings.
Philip le Bel was the most bitter against them, arrested their Grand*
1 Tho School of Alexandria, says Papus, was the main source of Western seoret societies.
The Onostio sects, the Arabs, the Alchemists, tho Templars, the Rosicrucians and finally the
Freemasons form the Western chain for the transmission of Occnlt Science. Lack of space
compels us to refrain from dealing with the Eastern history of Occultism, although this was the
main section, since it was especially in India and in Thibet that the old tradition was preserved,
the teaching of which Theosophy has to some extent revived.
4
8
1
m aster Jacques de Molay in 1807, confiscated their property and
instituted a lawsuit against them which lasted seven years.
They were charged with a thousand exaggerated misdeeds (in
truth they were guilty only of the breach of their vows and of an excess
of wealth and pleasure), disfiguring their initiation in which they were
accused of polluting the cross and treading it under foot, worshipping
Satan, etc. These so-called infamies were so deeply rooted in the
popular mind th a t the Templars were brought to tne stake, and even
to-day they still survive in the minds of some.
Molay was tortured. He bore it heroically, and it is well known
th a t he summoned to the Throne of God his judges who died in the
same year, as well as Pope Clement V.
The Bo8icrucians.—Tnese were founded by the German Rosenkreuz
in the early 15th century after travels to Palestine, particularly to
Damas and the mysterious city of Damcar where he became initiated
to Occultism and Magic, later to Morocco where from the Rabbis he
learnt the K abbala and its secrets.
The Fratemitaa Rosae-Crucis remained a secret society for a century.
About the year 1618 the W urttemberg theologian Valentine Andrea
Sublished a small book about them, giving their rules. The alchemist
Lobert Fludd soon after introduced the Rosicrucian doctrine into
G reat B ritain. I t taught th a t the Universe consisted of four worlds
—the Archtype, the Angelical, the A stral (or invisible) and Sublunary'
(or physical), and th a t m an was the synthesis of the Universe or
macrocosm, being himself a microcosm.
The doctrine of th e Rosicrucians was introduced into Freemasonry
in the 18th century and had its own rite. One of its main teachers
in the preceding century had been Commenius, one of the forerunners
of modern teaching methods.
Towards the end of the 18th century the German Rosicrucian
Society had considerable influence on the Court of Frederick William
II, owing to its Grandm aster Vainer, the M inister of Cults (K ultus-
m inister).
In France its principal teacher was Pascalis, whose disciples were
Claude de Saint M artin (the “ Unknown Philosopher ”) and Willermoz.
Lodges were founded in various towns. One of its Grand Masters
was the celebrated Stanislas de G ualta, and everyone knows how
much the no less famous Sfir Josdphin Pdladan did for it.
Connected with the R + C is the M artinist Society of Parus.
The Carbonari.—This semi-political semi-religious sect was first
founded in Italy. I t is said to be descended from tne Guelfconspirators
who hid in the woods (hence the name Carbonari) so as to escape from
the Ghibellines. They had a double purpose in view—the independence
of Italy and the reform of the Church. According to another version
A P P E N D I C E S
the Society was founded in the 15th century in France, where its
members were called Good Cousins and were a t the start occupied in
good works. Y et another version says th a t it was im ported from
Italy by the arm y of Francis I.
However this may be, the French Carbonaria professed a gentle
and cheerful philosophy, whereas the Italian was sombre ana vin
dictive.
I t had many reverses. I t was born afresh in 1818 amongst Masons
Sersecuted by the Restoration who united w ith the Italian Repub-
cans.
The Illum inati.—This Society was founded under the influence
of Jacob Boehmen, the cobbler-philosopher of the 17th century, and
renewed under Swedenborg. The latter has always claimed th at
without being the dupe o f his imagination he had talked to Angels,
Spirits, even God Himself, and this during a period of 28 years.
His first interview “ w ith God ” took place in 1745, and he relates
it.in a letter to Mr. de Robsam quoted a t the beginning of his tract
De Ceelo et Inferno. God told him th a t He had chosen mm to explain
to men the esoteric meaning of the Holy Scriptures. This mission
the w riter carried out till his death.
A Swedenborgian Society exists in London a t the present moment,
with Headquarters in H art Street, Bloomsbury.
Freemasonry.—This is the most im portant Secret Society of all
times, the best known and also the most living.
It goes back to the greatest antiquity, perhaps coming from the
East. It is said to have been founded by the Masons who built the
Temple of Solomon in Jerusalem.
In the Middle Ages it tried to recover the mysterious and symbolic
cult of the ancient Magi, and in this connection the Scottish Free
masonry was the most interesting.
Unfortunately, says Papus, it cannot be disputed th a t present
day Freemasonry has almost entirely lost the meaning of the traditional
symbols constituting the possession which it was to transm it from
age to age.
Its ritual seems ridiculous to anyone having the slightest knowledge
of the profound teaching of Antiquity. W ith the exception of a few
great minds who in their inmost soul regret th at it has not kept th a t
which constituted its greatness and which would to-day make it an
intellectual power, Freemasonry is in the main a kind of co-operative
society of “ arrivistes.”
In short, it is perhaps amongst the People th at we m ust try to
recover the occult teaching. This teaching is contained in the Taroc,
and the people by which it has been preserved is th at people without
a country contemptuously called Gipsies.
482 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
However, if the Taroc contains the essence of Tradition, there is
no doubt th a t men of loftier m ind were required to explain it. And
Secret Societies are no longer required; these men working in the
full light of day are the noted Occultists of our own tim e whose accumu
lating labours reconstruct and modernise for us the ancient and august
science of the Magi.
A P P E N D I C E S 483
N o t e III
Hexagrammism
Amongst the m ost interesting modernisations of the ancient
intellectual construction of the Universe, of Man and of the history
of the Globe, a place m ust be reserved for th a t created by Michel
Simon-Savigny, a Swiss—orally after the fashion of the Mam—and
transm itted to his two sons Edmond and Georges who to-day are
spreading it w ith adm irable unselfish devotion and filial piety. This
theory is called Hexagrammism (it will presently be seen why) and
has been spread by means of various works1 and a review called the
Hexagram.
W e leave out the reproach which Messrs. Savigny make to dogmatic
Christianity of having spoilt Tradition. Christ, they say, is but a
counterfeit of Christina, the name given to the H indu Messiah. The
individual himself is but a legendary copy of Sakya-Muni who, like
Christ, was condemned to death by the Brahmins a t the age of 88.
The conception of Trim urti is 8,500 years older than the idea of the
Trinity. The Sermon on the Mount is but a feeble im itation of the
Prayer of the Initiate to Brahm . In short, according to the two
brothers, we have here a colossal imposture.
The tru th according to their father Michel Savigny is as follows:—
The appalling flood of the Barbarian Invasions which beat down
upon the Graeco-Roman world almost destroyed a civilisation which
the mind surviving it believed to be the first, and th a t nothing had
existed before it, attributing to it everything th at it had in fact borrowed
from Asia.
I t was not until the 18th century th a t scholars like Champollion,
Bailly and others discovered civilisations prior to the Greek, namely
those of Egypt, Chaldea, India and China. Then the question arose
whether these nations had not in their turn taken their knowledge
from others, older still.
Research and legend proved unquestionably th a t this was so, and
1 G. and E. Savigny, The Adamites, Adamite Metaphysics, Hexagrammist Chemistry, etc.
There is also an excellent Little Manual oj Hexagrammism which forma the bans of the present
Note.
A P P E N D I C E S 485
2. Pentagram.—The key to the science of Being, of Life, and of
Death.
The seated Buddha is drawn within the pentagram , the lines of
which cross on the navel. If man is standing in accordance with
the pentagram , arms stretched out and legs apart, the lines cross in
the sex organ. Now Adam and Eve were expelled from Paradise
for having eaten the fruit of the Forbidden Tree, th a t is to say an
apple. And the apple cut in two is the onlyfruit in the centre of which
we find the drawing of a pentagram.
I*
?period
Ca n c e r VELLOW
m
little by little the vision arose of an immense social structure which
in Iran preceded all others. Then a last question suggested itself:
Was the Iranian Empire in fact the beginning of the civilised world ?
No, replies Savigny, for the Iranians themselves said that they had
ancestors whom they looked upon as a kind of Gods. It is this primitive
nation to which our philosopher gives the name of A d a m ite s.
According to him the Adamites are the fir s t h u m a n ity which was
destroyed in an appalling cataclysm which a ll n a tio n s remember under
the name of Deluge.
And the Swiss scholar accumulates proofs, legendary, historical,
geological, etc., into which we cannot go at length, but which are very
disturbing.
Of the Adamites we retain, amongst others, two recollections,
The Earthly Paradise and Atlantis. The first is a homage to the
marvellous lost civilisation of the first conquerors of the world, who
seem to have governed it by gentleness, skill and Science. The second
is a confused image of the astounding alterations of the surface of
the earth.
Savigny believes that the Adamites understood thoroughly all
psychical sciences (hypnotism, etc.) and that they ruled by means
of this prodigious power which in particular enabled them to transform
certain kinds of wild animals into tame ones, a miracle which it is
impossible again to perform. We are in fact to-day no longer able
to make a wolf into a dog, although we know very well that it is exactly
the same animal.
There can be no doubt that the Adamites had a priestly caste
composing the initiates of their secret science which was capable of
being written down in geometrical figures which we are going to re
produce together with their meaning.
Tradition preserved the certainty that a great Messiah would
come, the reincarnation of the Magus Hermes whose wisdom had been
destroyed by the Deluge, and would choose a nation in which would
be reborn the great lost race. Tired of waiting, the Greeks were
acclaimed as this race, and Antiquity saw in them the descendants
of the Adamites. But numbers of Magi did not believe this, and
Hermetic initiation was continued occultly under the name of Kabbala.
Michel Savigny believed that through his researches he had rediscovered
the symbols of Hermes, of which the following are the principal:—
The following is a short explanation:—
1. H exa g ra m .—It is the key to astronomical science. In it are
found the conditions of universal balance, the Zodiac, the six geological
periods, the law of colours. We shall return to it presently.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
486 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
T h e H exa g ra m has six points, one of which, at Capricorn, and the
other facing it, at Cancer, each govern a triangle, and each triangle
governs a geological era, the whole of them constituting the six eras
which the Bible calls the six days of Creation and of which the following
is the list in the light of the new doctrine:—
1. Cancer or Crab. The Reign of the crustaceans and mollnscs.
2. Pisces. The Reign of the fishes.
3. Scorpio. The Reign of the Reptiles (originally it probably was a viper).
4. Capricorn. The Reign of the small mammalia and birds.
5. Virgo. The Reign of the placenta-mammalia and higher mammalia.
6. Taurus. The Human Reign (the part which Taurus, the symbol of man,
plays in Tradition is well known).
The logic of this table will be noted, as also the fact that the first
three periods are those of cold-blooded animals, the last three those
of warm-blooded animals.
We cannot here deal in detail with the Adamite theory of the origin
of beings and things, founded as it is on the analogical study of electrical
and vital forces, based on a first primal force called the od, on the
certainty borne out by the science of to-day that matter is only a form
of electricity, on the analogous division of electrical forces into four
classes of simple atoms, on the one hand physical (carbon, hydrogen,
oxygen, azote), on the other hand psychic (sensitiveness atoms, memory
atoms, reason atoms, intelligence atoms). We will only mention its
conclusion:—the physical group is provisional, the psychic group is
final. This is the conclusion of Spiritualism, the conclusion of Theo
sophy. The ego is immortal and indefinitely perfectible. Hcxagram-
mism also, therefore, teaches R ein ca rn a tio n , and the possibility of
communication between the living and the dead.
Another interesting point in the hexagrammist theory is the explana
tion of the ascent o f the B e in g through the centuries.1
The terrestrial fauna, says Savigny, was entirely altered in each
However, if the Taroc contains the essence of Tradition, there is
no doubt th a t men of loftier mind were required to explain it. And
Secret Societies are no longer required; these men working in the
full light of day are the noted Occultists of our own tim e whose accumu-
lating labours reconstruct and modernise for us the ancient and august
science of the Magi.
N o t e III
Hexagrammism
Amongst the m ost interesting modernisations of the ancient
intellectual construction of the Universe, of Man and of the history
of the Globe, a place m ust be reserved for th a t created by Michel
Simon-Savigny, a Swiss—orally after the fashion of the Magi—and
transm itted to his two sons Edmond and Georges who to-day are
spreading it with adm irable unselfish devotion and filial piety. This
theory is called Hexagrammism (it will presently be seen why) and
has been spread by means of various works1 and a review called the
Hexagram.
We leave out the reproach which Messrs. Savigny make to dogmatic
Christianity of having spoilt Tradition. Christ, they say, is but a
counterfeit of Christina, the name given to the Hindu Messiah. The
individual himself is but a legendary cow of Sakya-Muni who, like
Christ, was condemned to death by the Brahm ins a t the age of 88.
The conception of Trim urti is 8,500 years older than the idea of the
Trinity. The Sermon on the Mount is but a feeble im itation of the
Prayer of the Initiate to Brahm . In short, according to the two
brothers, we have here a colossal imposture.
The tru th according to their father Michel Savigny is as follows:—
The appalling flood of the Barbarian Invasions which beat down
upon the Graeco-Roman world alm ost destroyed a civilisation which
the mind surviving it believed to be the first, and th at nothing had
existed before it, attributing to it everything th a t it had in fact borrowed
from Asia.
It was not until the 18th century th a t scholars like Champollion,
B ully and others discovered civilisations prior to the Greek, namely
those of Egypt, Chaldea, India and China. Then the question arose
w hether these nations had not in their turn taken their knowledge
from others, older still.
Research and legend proved unquestionably that this was so, and
* G. and E. Savigny, The Adamite*, Adamite Metaphysic*, Hexagrammist Chemistry, etc.
There is also an excellent Little Manual of Bexoaramnitm which forms the basis of the present
Note.
A P P E N D I C E S 483
little by little the vision arose of an immense social structure which
in Iran preceded all others. Then a last question suggested itself:
Was the Iranian Empire in fact the beginning of the civilised world ?
No, replies Savigny, for the Iranians themselves said th a t they had
ancestors whom they looked upon as a kind of Gods. I t is this prim itive
nation to which our philosopher gives the name of Adamites.
According to him the Adamites are the first humanity which was
destroyed in an appalling cataclysm which all nations remember under
the name of Deluge.
And the Swiss scholar accumulates proofs, legendary, historical,
geological, etc., into which we cannot go a t length, but which are very
disturbing.
Of the Adamites we retain, amongst others, two recollections,
The Earthly Paradise and Atlantis. The first is a homage to the
marvellous lost civilisation of the first conquerors of the world, who
seem to have governed it by gentleness, skill and Science. The second
is a confused image of the astounding alterations of the surface of
the earth.
Savigny believes th a t the Adamites understood thoroughly all
psychical sciences (hypnotism, etc.) and th a t they ruled by means
of this prodigious power which in particular enabled them to transform
certain kinds of wild animals into tame ones, a miracle which it is
impossible again to perform. We are in fact to-day no longer able
to make a wolf into a dog, although we know very well th at it is exactly
the same animal.
There can be no doubt th at the Adamites had a priestly caste
composing the initiates of their secret science which was capable of
being w ritten down in geometrical figures which we are going to re
produce together with their meaning.
Tradition preserved the certainty th at a great Messiah would
come, the reincarnation of the Magus Hermes whose wisdom had been
destroyed by the Deluge, and would choose a nation in which would
be reborn the great lost race. Tired of waiting, the Greeks were
acclaimed as thus race, and Antiquity saw in them the descendants
of the Adamites. B ut numbers of Magi did not believe this, and
Hermetic initiation was continued occultly under the name of Kabbala.
Michel Savigny believed th at through his researches he had rediscovered
the symbols of Hermes, of which the following are the principal:—
The following is a short explanation:—
1. Hexagram.—I t is the key to astronomical science. In it are
found the conditions of universal balance, the Zodiac, the six geological
periods, the law of colours. We shall return to it presently.
*84 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
2. Pentagram.—The key to the science of Being, of Life, and of
Death.
The seated Buddha is drawn within the pentagram , the lines of
which cross on the navel. If man is standing in accordance w ith
the pentagram , arms stretched out and legs apart, the lines cross in
the sex organ. Now Adam and Eve were expelled from Paradise
for having eaten the fruit of the Forbidden Tree, th a t is to say an
apple. And the apple cut in two is the onlyfruit in the centre of which
we find the drawing of a pentagram.
A P P E N D I C E S 485
I*
?period
Ca n c e r
V ? .
_
f ^ O '
/ A
Sto, W
Ca p r i c o r n
**.!’period
V6U.OW
8. The Double Square-Double Circle, which is the token of Masonry,
symbolises the Science of Lines, of Letters and of Numbers. In it
are found the whole of elementary geometry and the origin of the
Roman alphabet.1
These three symbols were in A ntiquity the link binding all Initiates
together.
1 The Greek alphabet seems to have been inspired by the serpent which plays so great
a part la T htditm
486
The Hexagram has six points, one of which, a t Capricorn, and the
other facing it, a t Cancer, each govern a triangle, and each triangle
governs a geological era, the whole of them constituting the six eras
which the Bible calls the six days of Creation and of which the following
is the list in the light of the new doctrine:—
1. Cancer or Crab. The Reign of the crustaceans and molluscs.
2. Pisces. The Reign of the fishes.
3. 8corpio. The Ruga of the Reptiles (originally it probably was a viper).
4. Capncom. The Reign of the small mammalia ana birds.
5. Virgo. The Reign of the placenta-mammalia and higher mammalia.
6. Taurus. The Human Reign (the part which Taurus, the symbol of man,
plajB in Tradition is well known).
The logic of this table will be noted, as also the fact th a t the first
three periods are those of cold-blooded animals, the last three those
of warm-blooded animals.
We cannot here deal in detail with the Adamite theory of the origin
of beings and things, founded as it is on the analogical study of electrical
and vital forces, based on a first primal force called the od, on the
certainty borne out by the science of to-day th a t m atter is only a form
of electricity, on the analogous division of electrical forces into four
classes of simple atoms, on the one hand physical (carbon, hydrogen,
oxygen, azote), on the other hand psychic (sensitiveness atoms, memory
atoms, reason atoms, intelligence atoms). We will only mention its
conclusion:—the physical group is provisional, the psychic group is
final. This is the conclusion of Spiritualism, the conclusion of Theo
sophy. The ego is immortal and indefinitely perfectible. Hexagram-
mism also, therefore, teaches Reincarnation, and the possibility of
communication between the living and the dead.
Another interesting point in the hexagrammist theory is the explana
tion of the tiscent o f ute Being through the centuries.1
The terrestrial fauna, says Savigny, was entirely altered in each
of the terrestrial revolutions.
There have been, as we have seen, six of these revolutions. Now,
each tim e a superior class of animal life was bom, not by succession,
but by superimposition on the preceding. We have the impression
of a succession o f leaps forward, which seem to be the result of a desire
to ascend.* Mr. Savigny therefore assumes th a t it is not the function,
1 Ascent which is symbolised by the wordJehovah divided as follows:—Io—I have been ;
Ho—I am ; Vo—I shall be.
• It should be remembered that it was Hugo de Vries who first replaced the old aphorism
of Linnd Natura nonfecit lalttu so dear to Darwin and the first transformist theory, by the cer
tainty of sudden changes. This idea has also been adopted by the present day geologists who
K
* i eatostrophism and saltation, as does Hr. Simon Savigny. But the interest of the theory
latter lies in the explanation of the law of mutation % the desire to asoend.
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
487
but the desire which creates the organ. Thus the fishes seem to be
bom from the desire of the crustaceans to rid themselves of their hard
shell and to live the free life of the ocean, the reptiles to be bom from
the desire of leaving the w ater and conquering the earth (to which
they adapt themselves as the fishes had adapted themselves to the
water), etc. The Being therefore feels each tune more and more the
inferiority of the bodv which it inhabits, and desires a superior, nobler,
freer constitution. On the day on which nature w ill at last fa ll in w ith
the desires o f the P sychic B eing, the latter w ill have acquired m arvellous
force which w ill enable it to fu lfil itself.
We have thought it extremely interesting to draw attention to
this doctrine, which is linked w ith w hat we know of Magic and of the
trem endous power of psychic forces.
In short, to each great cataclysm corresponds a sharp ascent of
the Being towards Improvem ent. W hy? No doubt because at
those tim es extraordinary electric and m agnetic storm s exert a deep
influence on all beings and make them more malleable by psychic
desires.
These cataclysm s in turn igneous and glacial are probably astrono
mical phenomena and seem to recur a t fixed dates every 25,000 years.
A P P E N D I C E 8
N o t e IV
“H ealers’’
On the 25th of February 1925 M aitre Maurice Gar$on and M aitre
Jean Dum ont defended before the 18th Chamber the form er printer
Marius Jacom et who was charged w ith illegal practice of medicine
by carrying on treatm ent through suggestion and the laying on of
hands. Numerous witnesses, amongst them an inspector of police (I)
gave evidence in his favour. Dr. Charpy, of the Salp£tn&re, also
appeared in his defence. To be sure there were accusers—a few who
had not been cured. B ut do all doctors cure all their patients ?
Once more the lawyers appealed to the testim ony of history—
Empedocles and the Pythonesses, the Eleusian M ysteries and the
Book of the Dead (one of the remnants of Egyptain Science), the well*
known names and the annals of Magnetism. And the same pleadings
recur each tim e a H ealer is summoned before the Court.
How much longer is this trifling to last ? When will doctors be
willing to adm it th a t it is possible to heal w ithout having received a
diploma from the Faculty ? Finally, when, since it is obviously
necessary to protect the public against charlatans and swindlers, shall
we see the establishm ent of an Academy or an extra-m edical Faculty
of Magnetism, constituted partly of certificated medical men, partly
of well-known healers of standing who shall have subm itted proofs,
such Academy or Faculty itself holding examinations and giving its
own diplomas ? I t would be so easy and would obviate the judicial
stupidities which periodically annoy public opinion.
• • • • • •
Jacom et sometimes cured by the simple laying on of hands, but
knew nothing of occult science. Mr. Jean Beziat, another accused
(March 1925), operates in the same manner, and also with his breath.
B ut he is an agricultural engineer, familiar w ith the things of the
spirit, and edits a review, The F raiem ist. If the former is to some
extent a sorcerer, we have in the latter a kind of magician who, in an
address given to a number of his patients before calling them one by
one into his consulting room, explains his powers as follows:—
“ I believe th a t we are all, during our whole life, plunged in a bath
of vital forces, unknown as yet, but all-powerful. They are of two
kinds, on the one hand those which we rule, as for instance w hat we
call electricity, and which we have learnt to employ, on the other
hand those which are stronger than we a re ; and tnese latter we have
to entreat when we w ant their assistance. Now one of the fundamental
principles of logic is th at there is no effect without cause, and all the
evidence goes to show th at we are effects; therefore we have a cause,
and whether we call it God, Nature, Supreme Intelligence, Zeus or
Buddha is a m atter of no importance to m e; I am not narrowly religious
and do not wish to impose my convictions on anybody. B ut experi
ence—and experience is the one thing to which we m ust constantly
refer—experience proves th a t the cause always loves its effect. Thus
the mother loves ner child, the artist his work.
“ Why, then, should the great Cause of which we are the effects,
not love us ? I t is to it th at we m ust appeal when we are in pain
or sorrow, it is to it th at we m ust pray for nealing of our own suffering
and the suffering of others. When the small spring is dried up, it
needs for its revival the great celestial spring which dispenses the
fertilising w aters; so also our waning vitality needs, for its main
tenance and support, the great source of life which surrounds us and
which a t any moment is capable to carry out its office. True it is th at
the power to call on these forces and to bring them into play varies
in differentpersons, and in the actual case this gift is the most im portant
thing. I t has been bestowed upon m e; my hands, bring laid on,
have power to heal, to relieve. This is empirical, and I am not
proud of it. B ut as far as we know there is nothing to tell us th a t it
will not be possible in the near future to develop this power and to
use it.
“ I also want to tell you of a method which I thought I had invented,
488 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
A P P E N D I C E S 489
but I have been informed since th a t it goes back to a very venerable
antiquity. I t is the method of hot breath. I place my lips on the
spot where the pain is, and having drawn in a deep breath, I project
w ith my full strength to the end of the breath all the air in my lungs.
I t is tirin g ; it has to be done several times, taking care each tim e to
go back about three feet from the patient so as to draw in fresh air.
And w hat I recommend is th at each one of you, when returned home,
should ask some one near to you, ask all those of whom you are sure
th at they love you, th at they should practise this breathing on you
as often as possible. Its action is an efficacious assistance to the
cure. Finally, give me the pleasure, all of you, of copying the little
prayer which you see pinned to the wall, near the chimney, and which
you can usefully repeat from tim e to time. I t is short and clear, and,
remarkable to relate, it has been considered orthodox by Bishops,
Pastors, Rabbis, and even by Freem asons.1
“ You see th a t my methods have nothing magical, and th a t I make
use neither of hypnosis nor of auto-sugge&ion. If the latter exists,
it is perhaps useful, but it is not necessary. There you are. B ut
you m ust not imagine either th a t you are all going to be cured instantly.
Although I have been happily able to carry out instant cures, as some
of you will be able to testify, these are somewhat exceptional, and it
sometimes even happens th at at the start the illness gets worse (due
to the fact th a t increasing vitality puts more energy into the fight).
Do not get anxious about this but have confidence and courage.”
Mr. Valentin M andelstamm who, as special correspondent of the
P etit P arisien , went to Avignonnet, in the Haute-Garonne, to see
Mr. Jean B lziat, gives the following account of one of the consultations
a t which he was present:—
“ I had the opportunity of talking with m any of the patients who
had recovered their health. All are unanimous, definite in their
description of the illness from which they suffered and of their healing,
whether it was instantaneous or progressive.
“ Mr. Bdziat makes no diagnosis, but the great experience which
he has eventually acauired, enables him, he says, to check immediately
the words of the caller, and if necessary to correct them . And to
each one he applies the same method which he has explained in his
preliminary talk.
“ A fter a few questions, w ithout unnecessary words or discussions,
his anxiety being to act quickly and well, he grasps his patient closely
with his great powerful hands, and holds him erect or stretched out on
' It is as follows:—“ Universal and eternal seat of life and of intelligence, which is none
other than 0 * * * "' ' ^ . . . . . - . . . .
a little more
and health.”
the bed; and either through a fine handkerchief or on the bare flesh,
his big beard the while forming a halo around his face, he breathes
with the full force of his lungs; you can feel that he puts his whole
soul, his complete desire into it. His face, naturally of a high colour,
flushes still more, the veins of his neck swell; he repeats this several
times, and only stops when out of breath.
“ Thereupon he passes on to the laying on of hands.
“ With a kind of pious and convinced passion, without any fear
of contagion (it should be added that after each operation he washes
carefully witn a disinfectant) he lays his palms for one or two long
minutes on the most repulsive ulcers; at the same time he utters a
warm prayer, analogous in spirit to the formula pinned to the wall
ofthe waitingroom, enlargingit, addingdetails, the name ofthe person
for whomhe prays, the nature of his disease, all kinds of developments
inspired by the circumstances of the particular case.
“ I haveseenhimoperateinthismanner, serenely,onanoldpeasant
whose face was eaten up with a horrible ulcer, in the presence of the
old man’s son who accompanied him. And after this act of faith, the
sight ofwhich had a grandeur of its own, I heard him state with irre
sistible authority that within a month the man would see his terrible
wound d ry up and decrease, and that he would be cured. With the
consent of the three parties I make a note of the name and address.
"In parentheses be it said that the power of healing by the laying
on of hands generally includes the power of vitalising matter ana
to a certain extent rendering it imputrescent. Mr. B6ziat claims to
have made the experiment before witnesses. He took twin bulbs
of a tulip; the one which he treated by vitalising passes flowered a
fortnight before the other. So also with two pears—the fruit treated
by him reached twice the size of the other. Of two pieces of calTs
liver, belonging to the same animal, the one which he left aside rotted
inthe usualtime; the otheronwhichhepractisedhismagneticmethod,
became hardened, dried up, and never gave the slightest odour. He
operated in the same manner on an eel without emptying it; it never
became deliquescent, and he keeps it on a board in his library, looking
like a rubber cord, translucent and brown.
“ It is not impossible that he might obtain similar results by
operating on human corpses; and in this perhaps lies the secret—
hitherto unknown—of the Egyptian embalmers.
“ Further, as has been said, Mr. B6ziat lays claim to no special
scientific hypotheses, and he gives his services without asking for any
return, leaving it to his patients to show as they think best their
eventual gratitude. Engaged with his patients from early dawn till
night three days a week, he spends the rest of the time in dealing with
his monumental correspondence, in which task his wife and daughter
490 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
give him their skilled and devoted help; he has but scant leisure for
the work of his farm and his fields in which he yet has the keenest
interest.
“ The records carefully kept by Mr. Bdziat are m ost moving and
constitute an eloquent reply to the decree of the judges; they contain
the details of some six thousand cures, w ith references to evidence,
the name and address of the patient, often also of the doctors who had
attended him and had given up his case as hopeless. Instances of every
kind of hum an ill are round in them , and cures a t a distance abound.
I t is difficult not to be impressed by such a record.
“ Infantile meningitis, dry gangrene of a toe, both treated a t a
distance. H ydropisia due to cirrhosis of the liver. Persistent
diarrhoea. Tuberculosis in all its stages, down to the last. Lupus
of the face. Cancer. Epilepsy. Ulcerated stomach. A small boy
of eight who never walked in his life—now he ru n s! A hopeless idiot
—after two visits he was able to pass his degree. A heart which had
stopped beating for three hours was revived. A mad-woman w ith
m aternal and grandm atem al heredity had been confined for seven
years in an asylum near Paris, suffering from crises of m ania (necessi
tating a strait waistcoat) and stomachic and intestinal ptosis said to be
incurable. The father went to see Mr. B dziat; the patient began
to feel better a t the first visit, and Mr. B^ziat having continued to
treat her a t a distance for a m onth, she was completely cured, the
stom ach and intestines returning to their proper placie. The physician
in charge of the asylum says th a t he bows before the actual tact. On
the 9th October 1924 young G . . . (of Albi) hunchback from birth,
attested and looked upon as incurable by a doctor whose name is given,
came. A fortnight later he was cured and straight as a ram rod 1 A
witness a t the recent prosecution was young C . . . aged 18, paralytic
through diphtheria, completely blind, declared by the doctors to be
incurable; her parents go to see Mr. B6ziat. On their return they see
the child cured. Lastly a further witness a t the prosecution—J.S . . . .
(of Saint Julien, H erault), 100 per cent, disability after the war,
paraplegia. Spent three m onths a t M ontpellier and was sent home
as incurable. His father went to Mr. B lziat who treated a t a distance.
Straight away J.S . recovered the use of the right leg, and after three
sittings was completely cured."
These are facts. To condemn the man (for Mr. B & iat was sentenced
to a fine of 800 francs) who obtains them , thus relieving his brethren,
is not merely a laughable absurdity fit for the pages of a comic w riter,
but is an enorm ity which surprises us in a m agistrate. For ourselves
we draw attention to the doctrinal part of Mr. B&riat's art, remembering
w hat we have said as to Christian Scientists. A comparison seems
A P P E N D I C E S 491
492
called for. In both cases we find this statem ent:—God, or rather
the Cause, the Begetter, the Creative Force of necessity loves the Effect,
the thing begotten, and cannot wish it harm. Therefore Love is at
the foundation of the World, and of Occult Sciences!
T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
N o t e V
Modem Discoveries known in Antiquity
I t is not without interest for the Occultist to prove the value of
Tradition by the value of Ancient Knowledge, as superficial minds
seem to imagine th a t the way of the World is a continual progress,
and th a t therefore it is not necessary to take into account ideas of
olden times. This is a deep mistake. In A ntiquity numbers of things
were known which we think we invented. In proof of this we give
below a list by no means com plete:—
Astronomy.—W hatever may be thought about it, men of old did
not ignore the fact th a t the E arth turns round the Sun. Plutarch
mentions it, referring to the Pythagorean ideas on the subject. Aristotle
Philolaus, Aristarchus and others were sure of it. See in this con
nection the Greek and Latin texts quoted by Dutens (in Origin of
Discoveries attributed to the Modems). T hat several worlds are
inhabited was maintained by Aristotle, Plotinus, Anaximenes, and
others. Plutarch, Pliny ana Macrobius taught universal gravity.
Pythagoras outlined the theory of Newton. Passages in Strabo,
Democritus, Iamblichus, Archimedes, Seneca and others imply a know
ledge of prim itive telescopes and magnifying glasses.
Physics.—A book of Agathias (5th century) contains an anecdote
showing a knowledge of steam under pressure. Saint Yves d’Alveydre
in his Mission of the Jews shows by quotations how in antiquity the
electricity of lightning was utilised. The Hindus and the Arabs had
an astounding method of psychic telegraphy which rendered them
independent of telephone and telegraph. A m anuscript by
Panteselenus, a monk of Athos, shows according to ancient Ionian
writers the application of chemistry to photography (camera ohscura,
sensitisation of plates etc.)
Chemistry:—Berthelot has w ritten an imposing book of Chemistry
in Alchemy. The Egyptians were well acquainted with this science
(mummies, special cements for monuments, etc.) Acids and alkalis
were well-known of old. Medicinal chemistry and industrial chemistry
were not unknown (metallurgy, distillation, cut glass, beer, sugar, etc.)
More than this, we have lost certain processes such as Egyptian dyeing,
malleable glass. Herodotus and Pausanias speak of explosions in
mines, Flaccus Graecus of the manufacture of powder (now many
centuries before Bacon 1) Finally the laws of the evolution of chemical
bodies and living beings were foreshadowed in the highest antiquity
(the Bible, the K abbala, etc.)
Eastern Science.—I t is extraordinary both as to im portance and as
to antiquity. The Chinese knew the astronomical and the astrological
compass, th e reason of the tides long before K epler attributed it to
the moon, printing as far back as the 10th century, paper, powder,
etc. B ut we will not insist on this, for everyone knows to w hat heights
the civilisation of the Sons of Heaven rose a t a very early date. As
to India, it had long ago a considerable science of fluids, which has
been preserved down to our days, and of which we in the W est only
just know the first elements.
The following shows how, according to Papus, the flow of life on
earth progressed. According to occult teaching, he says in substance,
each continent developed first its minerals, then its flora, then its
fauna, finally its human race. Each race includes sub-races which have
their own particular evolution.
A first continent m ust have arisen where the Pacific is now, and
which Papus calls Lemuria. Lemuria perished (only the Oceanians
remain) and A tlantis was born between Europe and America (the
A tlantic Ocean). On this A tlantis the Red Race probably lived.
I t perished in its turn when it had reached a high civilisation, a t a
E:nod when the Black Race began to dwell in Africa. A few of the
ed Race survived. The flow of life then produced the W hite and
Yellow Races in Europe and Asia. According to this theory, which
supposes th a t a new race always replaces a decaying one, w hat we
call savages (Oceanians, negroes, redskins) are in reality form er civilised
races in retrogression.
An application of this principle is obvious in the evolution of the
W hite Race which follows the law of the flow of life, ju st as every
Continent, every Planet, every Solar System. Civilisation, bom in
the East, in fact passed into Egypt a t a tim e when Greece barely woke
up to intellectual life, and Rome came into existence. Egypt declined
wnen Greece rose and Rome followed on behind. W hen the Greek
decadence ensued (in Alexandria), Rome took the lead in the march
of the world.
This forward movement still goes on. Europe shines w ith an
incomparable brilliancy. B ut the Star of America is rising. W hen
Europe declines, the New W orld will attain its apogee. Then W estern
A P P E N D I C E S 493
Civilisation will renew the place of its origin, the East. Then the
tradition of the East will become one with the science of the West.
This will be the first turn m the great cycle of the White Race.
494 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
N o t e VI
A Recent Instructive Enquiry.
I t was made in M ayl924 for the Petit Journal (definite proof of
the growing interest existing among the public in Occult Science) by
Messrs. Marcel Nadaud and Maurice Pelletier, writers of integrity
and eminence, whose names are a guarantee for the soundness of their
information.
In seventeen articles, read with intense interest by a mass of people
who adm ittedly, seeing the standing ofthe paper itself, are not generally
very learned in the m atter of science, the authors dealt w ith a number
of modem events in which is shown the survival of the occultist spirit
and of the secret practices belonging to w hat were formerly called
the Accursed Sciences.
Yes, in 1925 there are still sorcerers who succeed in their practices,
Satanists who die from magical operations. Yes, in 1925 there are
still ritual murders as in the time of Voisin and Brinvilliers, there are
Black Masses and Bewitchings. B ut there are also still alchemists
who transm ute metals into gold, physicians who follow the old spagyric
medicine, astrologers, chiromancers whose predictions come true.
The enquiry which we mentioned above confirms it in a startling
manner.
We shallnot attemptto deal withit fully, but will confine ourselves
to extract from it the following characteristic points.
Mr. N adaud found in a room in the Rue G arantiire an antiquarian
who sold stolen chalices and profaned hosts which were undoubtedly
intended for satanic rites. He further quotes the case of the wife
of a colonial official dying of an unknown disease, under whose bed
one evening was found the heart of an animal pierced w ith needles
and wrapped in a handkerchief bearing the monogram of the patient.
A M artinique woman who was in the lady’s service thereupon dis
appeared. The servant was bewitching the unhappy woman, who
recovered as soon as the servant had left. In another article he relates
a case of bewitchment, this tim e a young woman m arried in the Island
of Reunion, who was under the spell of a negress seduced by the
husband. The young couple took refuge in Europe. The patient
was w ithout success treated in a nursing home a t Sdvres, and
495
Mr. N adaud found in th e neighbourhood a negro probably belonging
to the Vaudou sect who there continued the acts o f his co-religionist.
For there exists an African sect of devil worshippers called Vaudous.
Mr. N adaud described one of their ceremonies which took place on the
9th M ay 1925 less than six miles from Paris, in the forest of C (Clam art f)
There are also w hite Ludferians, as for instance th e Count de T . . .
who invited Mr. N adaud to an evocation in the Forest of Chantilly,
on a stone table a t cross roads on a moonlight night in March, and
later on a t his house where, in accordance w ith very definite rites;, he
evoked supernatural evil powers which he succeeded in confining in
a crystal globe. In the following December this sorcerer was found
dead in his w itchcraft laboratory, having been killed by th e terrible
powers which had escaped from the glass ball, th e latter lying a t his
feet broken into pieces.
There is the story of yet another Sabbath, b u t a t this tim e the
author was present in im agination only, having been rubbed w ith a
special ointm ent and half intoxicated by swallowing a sweetmeat
producing hallucinations. We have ourselves set up this hypothesis
of visions of the Sabbath, a phenomenon which as yet remains obscure.
B ut not obscure w hilst tin e are acts of w itchcraft. Mr. Pelletier tells
of one which took place in the D epartm ent of the Sarthe, where an old
sorcerer cast a spell on the cows of a fanner of th e name of Llcuru.
For this purpose he sacrificed a black hen, mixed its crushed viscera
w ith clover, made this up w ith wax into little figures of cows, pierced
them w ith pins w hilst m uttering curses, and secretly buried them in
the stable, where the lovely living cattle of M aster L& uru prom ptly
began to swell and die one after the other, until the enraged fanner
put the caster of spells out of the way with his gun.
Very rem arkable also is the description by Mr. Pelletier of an
exorcism by Abb£ D . . . who alone is authorised by the Archbishop
of Paris to drive out the devils from the bodies of the numerous possessed
persons who come to see him. Then there is the strange hypothesis
th a t Landru did not kill his victims (no definite proof has ever been
produced th a t he did so}, but th a t he hypnotised them in order to rob
them , taking away their memory, and sending them back into the
world after having divided theirpersonality, so th a t to-day they probably
languish, living but non-existent, in some madhouse or in no one knows
w hat dark places, entirelyforgetful of their previous existence.
The above enquiry reminds us th a t amongst spagyrist physicians
we m ust not forget Mr. Sauter, of Geneva, who distills the quintessence
of plants and uses it in obtaining miraculous cures; and amongst
alchemists we m ust not omit the greatest of them , Jollivet-Castelot
who, the ultim ate heir of Lullius and Bacon, the pupil and follower
of Tiffereau and Poisson, is a t present working a t the manufacture of
A P P E N D I C E S
496 T H E O C C U L T S C I E N C E S
gold, at the using of m etallic ferm ents, although no official laboratory
has ever been willing to open its doors to him.
As to ritual murders, Mr. Nadaud claims th a t they still take place,
and even fairlyfrequently, which explains th a t on an average 400 persons
disappear annually without any trace ever being found o f them. He
himself knows tw o sects of Satanists, one called Charlestown, having
its temple in the northern suburbs of Paris, the other called Saint-
Merry, w ith branches in the provinces and in Belgium, which holds
its meetings in the 4th arroncussement oLParis.
Ourenquirers also mention the modem astrologers and the masters
ofwhomwehavespoken,andtheyaddthenamesofAllendy,Grorichard,
Trarieux (Gabriel, the writer), L. Briquet, Kronstrom (the founder
of an astrological society in Copenhagen).
Further they refer to the astral sign-manual of the family of Sand,
acase whichmustnotbeoverlooked. Thenativities ofallthemembers
of the family of George Sand, the well-known novelist, show the
triangle of Mars and Neptune (except in the cases of her sonMaurice,
whose horoscope has seven other points of similarity to that of his
mother, and his daughter, a novelistof the presentday whose name is
beginning to make itself known and respected).
The article closes with the following beautiful page which will
also close this note:—
“ Last year GeneralFerrid, one ofthe Kings ofWireless Telegraphy,
tried a remarkable experiment. With the intention of transforming
the light rays into sound waves he placed under the eye-piece of an
equatorial (the enormous telescope of observatories) some potassium,
which is known to have the power to break up light. In order the
better to perceive the sound, he connected tne circuit formed by
the potassium in action with a loud-speaker. Then he exposed the
objective to the light of the stars.
Suddenly the loud-speaker began to sin g ; a thin melody, of a wavy
rhythm, brought the echo of the harmony of the spheres. What
did it say ? Did it tell of hope or of melancholy in the Beyond ?
Did it bring news of happy births or of sad mournings ? Mystery
of universal transformation, whether sorrow or joy of a Universe in
perpetual growth, it was the song of the great Whole which has
no beginning and will have no end, sung in the serene calm of a dear
night of spring by the Stars!”
