{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__pelley___there_is_a_jewish_world_plot.pdf","mytitle":"There Is A Jewish World Plot","mylang":"de"}
There ISa Jewish Work!Plot
Patriotic A m ericans!
Rabbi Stephen S. Wise said at the American Jewish Congress
on June 12, 1938:
"American Jews must not make the tragic mistake that the
German Jews made in pretending to be German and not
Jews. I am not an American of Jewish faith. I am a Jew.
I am an American and have been an American for 60 years,
but I have been a Jew for 4,000 years. Hitler was right in
one thing. He calls the Jews a race and we are a race.”
* * * * *
Jacob Schiff on September 8, 1907, said:
"A Jew cannot at the same time be a true American and
an honest adherent of the (political) Zionist movement.”
* * * * *
The following is from The Jewish World, December 8, 1911:
"The English (or French or American, etc. rstriotism of
the Jew is only a fancy-dress which he puts x rc please the
people of the country.”
SO W HAT?
“The Jews of America, because of their
numbers, interests, and ability, constitute a
great political force. They have not usurped
this power; it belongs to them by right!
They are going to exercise it as they see fit.
W hat are you going to do about it?”
—From an editorial in the great Yiddish news­
paper, ,rThe Day,” New York, April 6th, 1936.
“The Russian Revolution was made by
Jews. W e have created Secret societies,
planned the Reign of Terror. The Revolu­
tion succeeded by our convincing propa­
ganda and our mass assassinations in order
to form a government truly ours!”
—M. Hermalin, Jew, Communist, New York, 1917.
“W e Jews have erred grievously. We who
have posed as having given to the world
‘the’ Savior, are today nothing else than
its destroyers, its incendiaries, its execution­
ers. We who have promised you a New
Heaven, have given you a New Hell.”
—Dr. Oscar Levy, in ”The World Significance of
the Russian Revolution.”
2
are objectives of a mass assault by Jewry, we
first take note of a bit of recent history—
The 76th Congress of the United States, sitting
in Washington during 1938, appropriated the
sum of twenty-five thousand dollars to the Hon.
Martin Dies, Representative from Texas, for
financing the work of a Special Committee to
investigate “un-American activities’’ through­
out our whole Union.
Representative Dies gathered six congressional
associates about him, and the group sat continu­
ously from August to December, hearing wit­
nesses and examining evidence that “un-Amer­
ican” practices were so rife in this nation as to
constitute a threat to the Federal government.
These three “isms” were Communism, Fascism,
and Nazism.
Communism was alleged to be the form of des­
potic government that has ruled in Russia
since 1917. Fascism was alleged to be the form
of government that has ruled in Italy since 1920.
Nazism was alleged to be the form of govern­
ment that has ruled in Germany since 1933.
All three are persistently described to the Amer­
ican people as D ic ta to rsh ip s, and the argument
is advanced that if supporters of these three
4
longevity of this American Republic, should be
classed beneath that head.
This practically endowed seven members of the
House of Representatives with opportunity to
proceed anywhere, and investigate anything
which fell beneath their suspicions or prejudices
as being “un-American.” By their prerogatives
of subpoena and interrogation, without the one
so summoned or queried being allowed the ad­
vice of counsel, these seven Committeemen be­
came in practice a Congressional Police— with
the authority to scour the highways and byways
of the nation and drag in for inquisition whoso­
ever looked, talked or acted like a “suspicious”
person. In addition, official sleuths were em­
ployed to spy on persons and organizations, and
collect such evidence—or give such testimony
for the official record—
-as they might decide,
within the circumscriptions of their own sus­
picions or prejudices, designated those persons
or organizations as subversive.
That the formation of such a sleuthing force,
and the catechizing of such persons as fell be­
neath its “suspicions,” were of themselves un-
American—inasmuch as the Bill of Rights ex­
pressly protects private citizens in their persons
6
come over here on this side of the Atlantic, and
force the people of th is nation to adhere to the
peculiar variety of government exercising in
Russia, no one made the slightest effort to ask,
and therefore none of it went into the record.
Nor did Fascism, or Nazism, fare any better,
c That the people of Italy, ruinously attacked
by Bolshevism, had rallied under their leader,
Mussolini, and smashed the Red menace— and
that Fascism has ever since been accepted by
erudite persons as the system of government op­
posed to Communism—were as deliberately ig­
nored as were the cause and personnel of Com­
munism.
That the people of Germany, equally menaced
bv Bolshevism, had gone one step further than
the people of Italy, and rallied successfully un­
der a leader who had no reservations about
identifying the cause and personnel of the Com­
munist phenomenon—and basing a reborn Ger­
man government on a purging of that personnel
from the Fatherland—was a subject that seemed
anathema to these Committeemen’s explorations.
C Communism, Fascism, and Nazism—as
“isms”—were all grouped together, and held
equally inimical to the American Republic.
8
tee that should examine into that menace—the
Dies Committee took the paradoxical and un­
ethical attitude that even those valiant organiza­
tions were themselves guilty of “un-American­
ism.” Because their officers and members had
been so audacious as to awaken an ignorant or
unsuspecting public to its plight, and cast their
resistance in effectual organizational mold, they
too were jerked up before this Committee, and
indiscriminately classed as “un-American”
breeders of Hate, Intolerance, and practices un­
becoming citizens of a “Democracy” like the
United States.
Incidentally, the United States is n o t a Democ­
racy, but a Republic. The members of this Com­
mittee, however, were not sufficiently erudite in
their civics to be aware of that fact, or of the
difference between the two governmental forms,
despite the circumstance that they sat in the
House of Representatives at other times, mak­
ing laws for a mighty nation.
The unbiased and dispassionate facts are, that
the individuals who had thus been empowered to
conduct this investigation were by no means
equipped—either temperamentally or scholas­
tically—to so function as an explorative body.
10
general malcontents who in the past had suf­
fered from the superior knowledge or activities
of those who, in contradistinction to members of
the Dies Committee, might be termed “profes­
sionals” in knowledge of subversive operations.
Their initial behavior, in castigating Commu­
nists, Fascists, and Nazis, alik e, immediately dis­
closed the adolescent—or purely political-
equipment of the Committeemen. When the
glaring Red trail led from the damp cellars of
Hester Street—figuratively speaking—straight
to the Executive Mansion of the nation, and the
wife of the President of the United States came
dangerously close to being identified with some
of the worst subversive groups and individuals
in the American ensemble, the Committee's
tactics veered overnight.
The scene of its explorations shifted from the
Capital to Manhattan.
And in Manhattan, it began as zealously to ex­
plore and fulminate against Italian and German
groups—as well as the strictly native Silver-
shirts—the leaders of which had demonstrated
long before the Committee’s formation that they
knew more in ten minutes about combating sub­
versive activities than any Committeeman had
12
In other words, the “going was better,’’ for the
Committee, because it was safer.
Finally these Committeemen, from the profun­
dity of their five-month “study” of the subject,
issued a press statement that was lush with sig­
nificance.
“There are,” this statement said in substance,
“approximately 135 separate and distinct or­
ganizations in this country, assiduously engaged
in spreading or ' romoting Race Hatred, Race
Prejudice, or Religious Intolerance.”
And well up toward the forefront of these 135
organizations, it named an organization that has
been active since 1933, and which has vigilante
members in every State in the Union: the Chris-
tian-American Silvershirts.
The Dies Committee was not particularly em­
powered by the Congress to spend the people’s
money investigating maneuvers in race hatred,
race prejudice, or religious intolerance. That
is beside the point.
What the Dies Committee had been forced, ca­
joled or maneuvered, into doing, was to identify
as “un-American” any organization or persons
in any way active or vociferous in spreading the
intelligence which dignified, erudite and dispas-
14
len g ers, a n d in q u isito rs, th e specific a tte stn ie n ts
a n d b ra g g in g s to th a t en d, o f J e w s an d J ew ish
lea d ers th e m s e lv e s! If you desire to brand us
as fanatical Nazis, for having found out the
same truths that the officials of Hitler’s govern­
ment in Germany have found out, such is your
childish prerogative. Names do not particular­
ly alter the merits of our case or the evidence of
our testimony. Furthermore, gentlemen of the
Dies Committee, we refute the charge that tell­
ing the Ainerican-Gentile public the authenticat­
ed facts and thus ‘putting the finger’ on the true
root of the nation’s troubles, is un-American.
You are descending from your exalted official
dignities to engage in contemptuous slanders,
when you so specify, and were you not protected
by congressional exemptions, your printed state­
ments to that effect would be made the basis of
serious libel suits. Why, therefore, are you not
common, irresponsible cowards in your speech,
in your attitudes and in your stations, when you
print such statements? But that is an expres­
sion that is personal. We can overlook your
ignorance and adolescence, and in a measure
your political machinations and effronteries, in
the greater public task of daring to stand up in
16
less political elements, that have come to concur
with us in our findings; and before this contest
ends we shall have demonstrated which is the
stronger—you with your temporary and ill-di­
gested aggrandizements, or we with our wider
knowledge and more statesmanlike motives.”
V /E S , there is a World Plot to overthrow all
Christian governments and bring the whole
earth beneath the heel of Christless Judaism.
Yes, there is Jewish attestment for the allegation
that Communism is naught but “World Jewry
in Action!”
Yes, there is proof— pressed down and over­
flowing— that the New Deal from its inception
lias been naught but the political penetration
of a predominantly Christian country and
Christian government, by predatory', megalo-
maniacal Israelites and their agents.
All this talk about “un-Americanism,” because
there are those who dare bring such attestments
to an illiterate or misinformed world, and all this
blither about “undermining Democracy,”—be­
cause the conclusions reached by American
scholars are identical with conclusions reached
by German scholars— are the sheerest political
18
plot to exterminate Christian institutions, make
sovietism the universal form of government,
and bankrupt the United States to where its
once-free citizens become mere serfs of Judah.
C American or non-American, sooner or later
the Dies Committee must face these admissions.
C What say the Jews?
L is te n !—
20
"And he will give their kings into thy hands and thou
shalt extirpate their names from beneath the heavens;
none shall be able to hinder thee until thou hast de­
stroyed them.” (Moses 5. 7. 24).
"Thou shalt lend to many peoples, but thou shalt bor­
row nothing. The Lord will put thee at the head and
not at the tail; and thou shalt never be but on the top,
and not beneath.” (Moses 5. 28. 12-13).
"This day I shall begin to scatter fear among the na­
tions, beneath all the heavens, so much that thev will
be terrified at the sound of thy name.” (Moses 2. 2. 25).
"Devour, then, all the peoples which thy Lord will give
thee; let not thy eye spare them, and serve not their
gods.” (Moses 5. 7. 16).
"The progeny of a foreigner (that is, of a non-Jew)
is like the progeny of animals.” (Jebamoth, fol. 94,
col. 2).
"What is the meaning of Har Sinai, that is, Mount
Sinai? It means the mountain from which radiates
Sina, that is, hatred against the people of the world.”
(Schabbath, fol. 89, col. 1).
"Wherever the Hebrews go, they must make them­
selves the master of their lords.” (Sanhedrin, fol. 19.)
"The Most Holy spoke thus to the Israelites: You have
recognized me as the only ruler of the world, and for
that reason I will recognize you as the only rulers of
the world.” (Chaniga, fol. 3-a, 3-b).
22
“JE W S S A Y S O !"
PART THREE
Jews Brag of a World Plot
\K E note of the last quotation
DkU on page twenty-two. It is a
direct translation from the Jewish
“holy” books. It indicates that
im the Jews are the only people on
earth who seem to have recog­
nized the One God, wherefrom they draw the
deduction that God in turn recognizes no other
people but themselves, as fit to lead the world.
On the other hand, over the past four thousand
years, God doesn’t seem to have kept His part
of the covenant very well. Jews have been chased
out of nearly every country on earth, sooner or
later, and where they haven’t been chased out,
they have been butchered. So to help God in
the matter of keeping that peculiar promise,
Jews seem to have hatched up a World
24
"We Jews, we, the destroyers, will remain destroyers
forever. Nothing that you will do will meet our needs
and demands. We will forever destroy because we
need a world of our own.”
—Maurice Samuel, in his book,
"You Gentiles,” page 155.
"I do not consider the Jewish question either as a social
or as a religious problem. It is a national question.
We are the only people.”
— Theodore HerzJ, "Modern
Jewish Prophet.”
"The great ideal of Judaism is . . . that the whole
world shall be imbued with Jewish teachings, and that
in a Universal Brotherhood of Nations—a greater Juda­
ism in fact—all the separate races and religions shall
disappear!”
—From "The Jewish World,”
issue of February 9, 1883.
"The principal end, which is Hebrew world domina­
tion, is not yet reached. But it will be reached and it
is already closer than the masses of the so-called Chris­
tian States imagine. Russian Czarism, the German
Empire and militarism are overthrown, all peoples are
being pushed toward ruin. This is the moment in
which the true domination of Jewry has its beginning.
—Judas Schuldbuch, in ”The
Wise Men of Zion.”
26
years have seen in the Hebrew laws, the elements of the
social regeneration of the world.
"A rationalized Hebrew State founded on Hebrew
fundamental laws, ethical, social, sanitary, and dietary,
and all the rest, would be a working laboratory of
social regeneration, which would excite breathless at­
tention.”
—A. A. Berle, Sr., in " World Signifi­
cance of a Jewish State. ’
"The Jewish people, considered as a whole, will itself
be its own Messiah. Its sovereignty over the world
will be reached by means of the unification of the other
human races, the elimination of frontiers and mon­
archies, which are the ramparts of particularism, and by
means of the institution of a world republic which will
grant everywhere civil rights to the Jews. In this new
organization of humanity the sons of Israel will be­
come everywhere, without meeting an obstacle, the di­
recting element, especially if they are successful in
bringing the proletarian masses under the direction of
some of their own number. The governments of the
peoples included in this world republic, with the aid of
the victorious proletariat, all will fall without difficulty
into Jewish hands. Private property will then be
strangled by the Jewish directors, who will administer
the state patrimony everywhere. Thus the promise of
the Talmud will be fulfilled, that is, the promise that
28
"The time has come—one thing we want—to show
ourselves for what we are—a nation amidst the nations
—money princes, princes of intellect.—A sigh will go
up from the whole earth—And the armies will tremble
as they listen to the wisdom which dwells in the Jews.
"Who does not know what the glands in the human
body represent? Now in the modern community of
nations the Jews have in wise self-protection settled on
the glands. These glands are: Exchanges, banks,
ministries, daily papers.—Publishers, settlement com­
missions, insurance companies, hospitals, peace palaces.
"There are some publicans and sinners, savants and
professors who assert there is no Jewish question.—Ask
that young street urchin, he knows better.—Out of
warlike ambition he is anti-semitic, the lout. Of course
the Jewish nation should possess international repre­
sentation and have its own territory.
"Do not however believe that the Jews of Western
Europe will move one step from the spot.—Apparently
everything will stay the same, yet all will be quickly
changed.—Jerusalem will become the new papacy.—
Jerusalem will be as a busy spider, a spinning spider
in a web whose threads of electricity and gold glisten
over the world. The centre of this golden web to
which all threads run is Jerusalem.”
—From the Jewish poem by Louis Levy,
recited by the Jewish actor Besekoow.
"No agitators did more to bring in the revolution
(French) of 1848 than the two Jews, Heinrich Heine
30
the trusted leaders and the routine workers of all these
revolutionary parties.”
—Rabbi Judah L. Magnus, in a
New York address, 1919.
"Britain has a mighty Empire but there are forces in
the universe more enduring than Empire or dynasty.
Britain may imagine that, dealing with a world in chaos
today, she may disregard public opinion. But Jewry
of 1937 is not the Jewry of 1898. We are no longer
a disunited and incoherent mass.”
—Rabbi Stephen S. Wise, American
Delegation to Zurich, 1937.
"The historian would proclaim that, according to his
experience, a people conquered, driven from its own
land and subjected to protracted and severe oppression
becomes merged with its conquerors. It is quite con­
trary in our case; we exist yet, a kind of 'Imperium in
Imperio.’ ”
(The Latin phrase, "Imperium in Imperio” translated
means "Empire within empire.”)
—From "The American Hebrew.”
November 21, 1879.
"Nations will gather together to bring their homage
to the people of God; the whole fortune of nations
will pass into the hands of the Jewish people, they
will march behind the Jewish people, in chains as
captives, and will prostrate before it; kings will bring
up its sons, and princesses will suckle its children.
32
to flock together one day in some hole-in-the-corner
fashion, for, if not tribal, at any rate separatist objects
but that the whole world shall be imbued with Jewish
teachings, and that in a universal Brotherhood of N a­
tions—a greater Judaism, in fact—all the separate races
and religions shall disappear.
"As cosmopolitan people, Jews have passed the stage
that the national forms of separatism represent in
social life. They can never come back to it. They
have made the whole world their home and now extend
their hands to other nations of the earth so that they
follow their example. They do more. By their ac­
tivities in literature and science, by their dominant posi­
tion in all branches of public activity, they are gradually
moulding Gentile thinking and systems into Jewish
moulds.”
—From "The Jewish World,” London,
February 9. 1883.
"An insurrection takes place against tradition and
aristocracy, against religion and property. Destruction
of the Semitic principle, extirpation of the Jewish re­
ligion, whether in the Mosaic or in the Christian form,
the natural equality of man, and the abrogation of
property, are proclaimed by the secret societies who form
provisional governments, and men of Jewish race are
found at the head of every one of them. The people
of God co-operate with atheists; the most skillful ac­
cumulators of property ally themselves with communists;
the peculiar and chosen race touch the hand of all the
34
when the light of a Jewish Faith, the only religion of
reason, will shine all over the world.
"Scattered amongst other nations, who from time im­
memorial were hostile to our rights and interests, we
desire primarily to be and to remain immutably Jews.
"Our nationality is the religion of our fathers, and we
recognize no other nationality.
"We are living in foreign lands, and cannot trouble
about the mutable ambitions of countries entirely alien
to us, while our own moral and material problems are
endangered.
"The Jewish teaching must cover the whole earth,
Israelites! No matter where fate should lead—though
scattered all over the earth, you must always consider
yourselves members of a Chosen Race.
"If you realize that the Faith of your forefathers is
your only patriotism—
"—if you recognize that, notwithstanding the nation­
alities you have embraced, you always remain and
everywhere form one and only nation—
"—if you believe that Jewry only is the one and only
religious and political truth—
"—if you are convinced of this, you, Israelites of the
Universe—consent!—
"Our cause is great and holy, and its success is guar­
anteed. Catholicism, our immemorial enemy, is lying in
the dust, mortally wounded in the head.
"The net which Israel is throwing over the globe of the
earth is widening and spreading daily, and the mo-
36
"You make mucli noise and fury about undue Jewish
influence in your theatres and movie palaces. Very
good; granted your complaint is well founded. But
what is that compared to our staggering influence in
your churches, schools, your laws and your government,
and the very thoughts you think every day?”
"You have not begun to appreciate the real depth of
our guilt. We are intruders. We are subverters. We
have taken your natural world, your ideals, your destiny,
and played havoc with them. We have been at the
bottom not merely of the latest great war but of nearly
all your wars, not only of the Russian but of every other
major revolution in your history. We have brought
discord and confusion and frustration into your per­
sonal and public life. We are still doing it. No one
can tell how long we shall go on doing it.”
"Who knows what great and glorious destiny might
have been yours if we had left you alone.”
"But we did not leave you alone. We took you in
hand and pulled down the beautiful and generous
s—
ucture you had reared, and changed the whole course
of your history. We conquered you as no empire of
yours ever subjugated Africa or Asia.”
"We did it solely with the irresistible might of our
spirit, with ideas, with propaganda.”
" . . . Take the three principal revolutions in modern
t me:—the French, the American and Russian. What
38
sounds so portentous. You go about whispering ter­
rifyingly of the hand of the Jew in this and that and
the other thing. It makes us quake.”
"You call us subversive, agitators, revolution-mongers.
It is the truth, and I cower at your discovery.”
"We undoubtedly had a sizable finger in the Lutheran
Rebellion, and it is simply a fact that we were the prime
movers in the bourgeois democratic revolutions of the
century before last, both in France and America. If
we were not, we did not know our own interests.”
"The Republican revolutions of the 18th century freed
us of our age-long political and social disabilities. They
benefited us.”
"You go on prattling of Jewish conspiracies and cite as
instances the Great War and the Russian Revolution!
Can you wonder that we Jews have always taken your
anti-Semites rather lightly, as long as they did not resort
to violence?”
—Marcus Eli Ravage, in "Century
Magazine,” Jan.-Feb., 1928.
40
Informed people like the American Silvershirts
say that no investigation of Communism can be
conducted without getting down to the business
of pinning responsibility for all Communist ac­
tivities squarely where it belongs: on the rub­
bery shoulders of the Jew.
To conduct a probe into the Communist side ot
“un-American” activities, while surrounded and
advised by Tews, is to treat with, and behave in,
frauds and absurdities.
Tf the squeamish Dies Committeemen say that
Communism is not Jewish, how do they explain
the following attestments* of internationally
mown spokesmen for the Jewish race’ . . .
"Marxism is the modern form of Jewish prophecy.”
—Prof. Reinhold Niebur, before Jewish Institute
of Religion, N. Y O ctober 3, 1934.
"Some call it Marxism; I call it Judaism!”
— Rabbi S. S. Wise, in an address from
the Free Synagogue, New York-
"Revolution, with its Equality and Fraternity, is the
star of Israel.”
—From "L’Univers Israelite,” Pans,
issue September 5, 1867.
"We have exterminated the property owners in Russia.
42
(Communism) hatched and planned in the camp of
Israel.”
—B. A. M. Shapiro, in his booklet,
"America’s Great Menace.”
"The Jews in Russia, in their total mass, were responsi­
ble for the revolution.”
—A. S. Rappaport, "Pioneers of
Russian Revolution,” page 250.
"The most remarkable and also the most injurious con­
sequence of the Great War has been the creation of
new nationalisms and the exalting of those already ex­
isting. Nationalism is a danger for the Jewish people.
Today, as in all epochs of history, it is proved that Jews
cannot live in powerful states where a high national
culture has developed.”
—From "The Jewish Sentinel,” Chicago,
issue of September 24, 1936.
"For Bolshevism is a religion and a faith. How could
these half-converted believers ever dream to vanquish
the 'Truthful’ and the 'Faithful’ of their own creed,
these holy crusaders, who had gathered round the red
standard of the Prophet Karl Marx, and who fought
under the daring guidance of these experienced officers
of all latter-day revolutions—the Jews?”
—From published letter of Prof.
Oscar Levy to Pitt-Rivers.
44
"With the rise of the Soviet Regime Jews have been
granted rights not accorded even in the most advanced
countries. The state, which previously did not employ
any Jews, now employs in White Russia 61 percent
Jewish officials. A Jew is commander of the Ukrainian
Army; a Jew is President of the State Bank; Jews oc­
cupy almost all important ambassadorial positions; uni­
versities, professions, judiciary and administration, now
have a greater percentage than any other nationality.
Anti-Semitism has been declared a state offense, and is
punished as counter-revolution.”
—Rabbi Stephen S. Wise, in "Jewish
Opinion,” December, 1933.
"Paole-Zionism goes on with its task in Russia, in
Palestine and elsewhere. In this very hour it appears
as the unique international proletarian party. One of
its fractions joins the Communist International, the
other joins the Socialist International.” Page 24.
"Throughout its autonomous existence, the Jewish peo­
ple has experienced many forms of government. But
neither the fatherly dictatorship of the great Moses,
nor the monarchy ruled by a religious constitution, nor
the republic of the faithful under the presidency of
High Priests, nor the despotism of the last kinglets
leaning on Rome could suit that people of dreamers.
Jews always had a government, but they alwavs en­
dured it.” Page 184.
"In fact, Jews could not maintain their State among
46
i
for a principle, not only for its identity with Mosaism,
but also for tactics.”
—Alfred Nossig, in his book, "Inte­
grates Judentum,” Berlin, 1922.
"There is much in the fact of Bolshevism itself, in
the fact that so many Jews are Bolshevists, in the fact
that the ideals of Bolshevism at many points are con­
sonant with the finest ideals of Judaism.”
—From "The Jewish Chronicle,”
London, April 4, 1919.
"The hatred of Czarism against the Jews was justified;
because, from the ’sixties onwards in all revolutionary
parties the Government had to deal with the Jews as
the most active members.”
—From State papers of Jewish Bolshevist
Raffes, Moscow, 1925.
"They (the Jews) were in the vanguard of the Russian
revolutionary movement before the fall of Czarism, and
their services in the early days of the heroic struggle of
the Proletarian Revolution are acknowledged by every
historian.”
— William Zuckerman, in his book,
"The Jew in Revolt.”
"The well-known American Jewish banker, Mr. Jacob
Schiff, was known to be anxious to secure recognition
for the Bolshevists among whom Jewish influence was
predominant. . . . I insisted that unknown to him
48
with a Jewish population of 400,000, there are about
150 Communists.’
"I myself am Jewish, and I come from Chicago. I
spent thirteen years in that city. Approximately 98
percent of us are Communists, and we are not ashamed
of it. It is a system laid down to us by our great leader,
Karl Marx, and only the cowards hide behind
'democracy’ or 'Americanism.’ Furthermore, I think
Mr. Treister should check up on his figures more
closely if he would give out information.
—Sarah Finkelstein, in letter to "New York
Herald-Tribune,” December 22, 1938.
"The instinct of property, resulting from the attach­
ment to the soil, does not exist for the Semites—those
nomads—who never possessed and would never possess
the land. Therefore their indisputably communist
tendencies since the farthest antiquity.” Page 85.
"One has only to mention the names of the great Jew­
ish revolutionaries of the 19th and 20th centuries, the
Karl Marxes, the Lassalles, the Eisners, the Bela-Kuhns,
the Trotskys, the Leon Blums, to thus enumerate the
names of the theoricians of modem socialism. . . . The
Jews have given many leaders to the maximalist move­
ment and have played a considerable part in it.
"The Jewish tendencies toward communism, apart from
all material co-operation to party organizations, what a
striking confirmation they find in the aversion that a
great Jew, a great poet, Heinrich Heine, felt for the
Roman Law! The subjective causes, the passional
50
in New York, some of the workers, a minority, pro­
tested that they could not contribute because 'they
have not forgotten the Spanish Inquisition’ and what
it did to the Jews.
"It is not necessary to remind the Jews that the
'rebels,’ as they are called by the press, have placed all
the Jews of Spanish Morocco, which is under their
control, in concentration camps.
"The question, however, is bioadet than that. The
war that is fought in Spain today is wider than the
Spanish territory. It is of life-and-death significance
for the Jews of the world. . . .
"When the People’s Front wins, definitely, in Spain,
that will strengthen the People’s Front in France and
will give an impetus to the formation of People’s Fronts
throughout the world.
"It will make the position of the Jews more secure in
the capitalist countries where bourgeois democracies still
exist, and it will hasten the end of Fascism in those
countries where the swastika and the black shirt now
reign supreme.
"This is why every Jew must support the struggle of
the People’s Front Government in Spain.”
—M. J. Olgin, editor, N. Y. "Morning
Freiheit,” August 7, 1936.
" 'Jews are not Communists,’ is the burden of a panic-
stricken statement issued jointly by Dr. Cyrus Adler,
president of the American Jewish Committee; Alfred
M. Cohen, president of the B’nai B’rith, and B. C.
52
yielding their fundamental civic right to hold any po­
litical viewpoint that seems just and wise to them as
individuals. . . .
"That the authors of this piece of perfidy do not repre­
sent the masses of American Jews, will be made abun­
dantly clear. They do not speak even for their own
constituents. Had the majority of members in the
B’nai B’rith and the Jewish Labor Committee been con­
sulted, no such statement could have been issued. Even
in the American Jewish Committee there are individ­
uals capable of detecting the unwisdom and the igno­
miny of this self-betrayal. But verbal and formal
repudiations of this joint statement are not enough. To
counteract its poison and to preclude its repetition,
Jews must take active and positive measures.
"There must be a widening and strengthening of the
united front against fascism in every guise and form,
if by taking full and honorable part in the forging of
this united front, the Jews of America write them­
selves down as Communists in the eyes of Messrs.
Adler, Cohen and Vladeck, so be it.”
—James Waterman Wise, in "New
Masses,” October, 1935, page 10.
"Mr. Kennan told of the work of the Friends of Rus­
sian Freedom in the revolution.
"He said that during the Japanese-Russian war he was
in Tokio, and that he was permitted to make visits
among the 12,000 Russian prisoners in Japanese hands
at the end of the first year of the war. He had con-
54
r
masses of the Russian workmen and peasants have been
able to throw off the yoke of the Bourgeoisie by them­
selves?
"No, it was precisely the Jews who led the Russian
proletariat to the dawn of the International and not
only had led, but are also now leading the Soviet cause
which remains in their safe hands. We may be quiet
as long as the chief command of the Red Army is in
the hands of Comrade Leon Trotsky. It is true that
there are no Jews in the ranks of the Red Army as far
as privates are concerned. But in the Committee and
Soviet Organizations, as commissars, the Jews are gal­
lantly leading the masses of the Russian proletariat to
victory. It is not without reason that during the elec­
tions to all Soviet insitutions the Jews are winning by
an overwhelming majority. The symbol of Jewry,
which for centuries has struggled against capitalism,
has become also the symbol of the Russian proletariat,
which can be seen even in the adoption of the Red five-
pointed star, which in former times, as it is well known,
was the symbol of Zionism and Jewry. With this sign
comes victory, with this sign comes the death of the
parasites of bourgeoisie. Jewish tears will come out of
them in sweat of drops of blood.”
—M. Cohen, in "The Communist ”
April 12, 1918.
"What we Jews must do is to set our faces as flint
against Fascism, against any form of it whatsoever. Our
next step to be taken as soon as ever it is possible,
56
"The revolution reminds us anew of the importance of
the Jewish question because the Jews are the driving
element of Revolution.”
—Moritz Rappaport, on the 1918
revolution in Germany.
"The German revolution is the achievement of the
Jews: the liberal democratic parties have a great num­
ber of Jews as their leaders, and the Jews play a pre­
dominant role in the high Government offices.”
—From "Jewish Tribune,” Ju'y 5, 1922.
"When we Jews sink we become a revolutionary pro­
letariat (Communistic); when we rise there also arises
our terrible power of the purse (Capitalistic).”
— Theodore Herz, Zionist leader,
in "The Jewish State.”
"Jewish elements form the driving power for both
Capitalism and Communism.”
—From the correspondence of Dr.
Oscar Levy, London.
" . . . Only recently our race has given the world a
new prophet, but he has two faces and bears two
names; on the one side, his name is Rothschild, leader
of all capitalists, and on the other side, Karl Marx, the
apostle of those who want to destroy the others.”
— Editorial in "Judisk Tidskrift,”
Sweden, issue 57, 1929.
58
thousands of Jewish people living in our territory.
Thus one of the major problems in the building of the
democratic front is the winning of the Jewish people
to the program of unity among all of the Jews and
to the progressive program of the democratic front for
the defeat of reaction and rising fascism.
"In this respect one of the most important factors must
become the popularization of the revolutionary, progres­
sive and democratic traditions of the Jewish people.
(Emphasis supplied.) . . . The Jewish people through
all ages have been recognized as a great people and have
made some of the most outstanding contributions to the
whole development of mankind in every field of science,
politics, economics, history and art.”
"This article is based on a report delivered by Comrade
Phillip David, Executive Secretary, Bronx County Com­
mittee, Communist Party, at the 10th Convention of
the New York State Communist Party held May 20-
23, 1938.”
"One of the most telling answers to the fascist anti-
Semites is the fact that the Jewish people produced that
great genius—Karl Marx—who gave to the world the
Communist teachings and the science for the abolition
of the exploitation of man by man. It should always
be recognized that Karl Marx’s great contributions to
the proletariat of the world, realized in one-sixth of
the world today—the Soviet Union—made possible the
60
“J E W S S A Y SO I”
PART FIVE
Is It Un-Americanism to Combat This—
HE READER may perchance, by
this time, gain some idea of the
extent of the absurdity of a Con­
gressional Committee’s spending
a hundred thousand dollars of the
public’s money to probe “un-
Americanism,” and ignoring or disregarding the
activities of organized Judaism. In 1933, long
before any member of the House or Senate
would even give serious thought to the claim
that there w a s an un-American or alien problem,
groups of patriotic and erudite persons got to­
gether over 22 States, to organize themselves to
act in the face of congressional apathy and
stupidity. They formed the Silvershirts.
For six years the Silvershirts have maintained
their integrity, and slowly and painfully sought
62
"It is evident that Roosevelt is not the leader of the
forces behind him.”
— Walter Lippman, in "New York
Evening Post” June 26, 1932.
"The Roosevelt Administration has selected more Jews
to fill influential positions than any previous administra­
tion.”
—From "Brooklyn Jewish Examiner,”
October 20, 1933.
"If the experiment for which Roosevelt is responsible,
should in any serious degree break down, as a result
of the association with it of a number of eminent Jews
there would be an outbreak of anti-Semitism in the
United States more profound than anything Anglo-
Saxon Civilization has so far known.”
—Prof. H. J. Laski, Jewish
Socialist, of England, 1935.
"The League of Nations is a Jewish idea. We created
it after a fight of 25 years.”
— Nahum Sokolow, President of the
World Zionist Organization.
"We made revolutions, and ran as eternal God seekers
ahead of the masses of the people. We gave to the
international proletariat a second Bible, one that was
adequate to the times and we aroused the passions of
the third estate. The Jew, Marx from Germany, de­
clared war on capitalism and the Jew, Lassalle, organ-
64
1914, a task that looms far larger than the French Revo­
lution—the annihilation of the most firmly entrenched,
the most selfish and most reckless autocratic system in
the world, the Russian Czarism.
"That achievement, destined to figure in history as the
overshadowing result of the world war, was largely the
outcome of Jewish thinking, of Jewish discontent, of
Jewish effort to reconstruct.”
—From ”The American Hebrew,”
September 10, 1920.
"We should not want to be false prophets, but to
dodge facts does not mean solving the problem. What
is occurring today in Germany will come tomorrow in
Russia. For all crimes which were the consequence of
the Communistic system, the Jews in Soviet Russia will
have to suffer some day. We shall have to pay dearly
for the fact that Trotzki, Joffe, Zinoviev, had leading
posts in Soviet Russia.”
—Rabbi Manfred Reifer, in "Czernowitz
Allgemeine Zeitung,” Sept. 2, 1933.
"In the new organization of mankind, the children of
Israel will spread over the whole surface of the earth
and will become everywhere, without any opposition,
the leading element, especially if they can impose upon
working classes the firm control of some of them. The
governments of the nations forming tf'e Universal Re­
public will pass without effort into the hands of the
Jews under the cover of the victory of the proletariat.
Private property will then be suppressed by the rulers
66
ruthless code; they were interior causes, relating to the
very essence of the Hebraic spirit. To that idea of God
that Jews had imagined, to that conception of life and
death, one must ask for the reasons of the rebellious
sentiments which ever animated them.” Page 305.
"During the second revolutionary period, the one that
starts in 1830, the Jews showed still more fervor than
during the first one. Moreover they were more di­
rectly interested in it, for in most of European States
they did not yet enjoy fully their rights. Those among
them who were not revolutionaries by reason or temper
were so out of interest. While they worked for the
triumph of Liberalism they worked for themselves. It
cannot be doubted that by their gold, their energy, their
talent, they supported and seconded the European revo­
lution. . . . During those years, their bankers, their
industrialists, their priests, their writers, their orators,
moved by ideas very different, contributed to the same
result. . . . They are soon mixed with the movement
of Young Germany; they were in numbers in secret
societies which formed the militant army of revolution,
in Masonic lodges, in the groups of Carbonari, in the
Alta Vendita Romana, everywhere, in France, Ger­
many, Switzerland, Austria, Italy.” Page 341.
—Bernard Lazare, in his book, "Anti-Semitism
and Its Causes,” Paris, 1894.
"My dear questioner, you are too curious, and want to
know too much. We are not permitted to talk about
these things. I am not allowed to say anything, and
68
Jews will see their Red Flag flying over the world.”
—From telegrams of Grand Public
Coadjutor of Jerusalem.
"Let us recognize that we, Jews, are a distinct Nation
of which each Jew is a distinct member whatsoever be
his original country.”
—Justice Louis D. Brandeis, in "The Jewish
Problem and How to Solve It.”
"If you admit that, in spite of the nationality you have
adopted, you remain and form, always and everywhere,
part of the one and only nation, then come, hear our
appeal and send us your adherence. The day is not
far hence when all the riches and treasures of the world
shall become the property of the Children of Israel.”
— Letters of Itzek Aaron Cremieux, at the Founda­
tion of the Universal Jewish Alliance.
"The real Jew does not become assimilated; many of
those who consider themselves so, feel one day, under
a blow of an exceptional circumstance, that the race
within awakes and speaks within them.”
—Baruch Hagani, in "Pro-Israel.”
"No one would ever dream of claiming that the son of
a Japanese or an Indian is an Englishman under the
pretext that he was born in England; the same argu­
ment applies to the Jews.”
—From "The Jewish World,”
September 22, 1915.
70
"M. Blum, without portfolio, is still an important
character in the French political picture. . . . It is likely
that M. Blum will continue to be the one to whom the
masses will look for leadership.
"Maxim Litvinov (Commissar of Foreign Affairs) far
outranks any comrade of the International with the
exception of the sallow complexioned keeper of the
Kremlin. . . .
"Litvinov is the high pressure gentleman who sold
President Roosevelt on recognition of the Soviet gov­
ernment and the establishment of trade agreements . .
He has accomplished the ultimate in the diplomatic
ken by keeping conservative England on the most amic­
able of terms with Red Russia.
"The English Jew of prominence is Leslie Hore-Belisha,
Secretary of State for War. Through sagacious use
of the public prints (at which he is past master, having
learned his stuff from Lord Beaverbrook, the daddy
of all press lords), managed to keep his own name
prominent. . . .
"So it may come to pass that these three sons of Israel,
these three Jews will form the combine that will send
the frenzied Nazi dictator to the Hell to which he has
consigned so many of 'their kind of people.’ . . .
"These forces of reaction are being mobilized. Re­
gardless of the action of the Senate which will shake
him loose from the premiership, Blum, as leader of the
strong Socialist mass, will continue to have a firm finger
in the Parisian political potpourri. Russia, as in the
past, continues to look to Maxim Litvinov for her
72
and V ). You have not come to a recognition of even
the beginning of the importance of our guilt. We are
invaders. We are destroyers. We are overthrowers.
We have taken possession of your natural world; of
your ideals, of your destiny and we have made a game
of it all. We were the primary cause not only of the
last war but of almost all your wars. We were the
promoters not only of the Russian revolution but of all
the great revolutions of your history. (Cf. Protocols,
V, VII, X ). We have changed the entire course of
your history. We placed upon you a yoke, which
Africa or Asia never knew under your sway. And we
have done all this without arms, without blood or the
clamor of battles, without violent measures of any kind.
We have realized this only with the irresistible force
of our spirit, with ideas and propaganda (Cf. Prot. V
and IX). Our wretched little country of one time has
become your Holy Land. Our national literature has
become your Bible. A jewish girl is your ideal of
motherhood and of femininity. A rebel Jewish prophet
is the center of your devotion. Let us consider the
three great modern revolutions, the French, the Amer­
ican and the Russian ones. What were they but a tri­
umph of the Jewish idea of a social, political and
economic justice? (Cf. Prot. III). It is with relief
that we realize that the Goi (the non-Jew) will never
be able to grasp the true gravity of our guilt.” (Prot.
IV).
— Marcus Eli Ravage, in "Century Maga­
zine,” January and February, 1928.
74
Apologists for Jews say that it is preposterous
to charge Jews with the attempted destruction
of Christianity and Gentile institutions. Says
Bernard Lazare: “The Jew is not satisfied
with de-Christianizing, he Judaises, he destroys
the Catholic or Protestant faith, he provokes
indifference but he imposes his idea of the
world, of morals, and of life, upon those whose
faith he ruins; he w o r k s a t h is a g e-o ld task, the
an n ih ilation o f th e re lig io n o f C h rist!”
What do sane Christians—or Dies Committee­
men— want for proof that the greatest menace
to everything that Christian-Americans hold
sacrosanct is found in the presence and tenets
of the Jew?
Contained in this little handbook are 82 attest-
ments and boastings from Jews in every walk
of life, that Jews are determined to tear down
whatever is Gentile and Christian and remake
the world on a basis of Christless Judaism.
When the Jew comes out bluntly and insolently
and says: “ Y e s, it is true!” how absurd and
childish it is for non-Jews to declare: “The
whole of it is libel, Nazi propaganda, race
hatred, religious prejudice.”
76
THIS is the challenge put up squarely to the
Dies Committeemen, to all apologists for
Jews, who refuse to believe these things are so
because they do not want to believe these things
are so, or because they are too far indebted to
Jews, financially or politically, to conduct a fear­
less and honest inquiry into the Jewish Ques­
tion as the one and supreme jeopardy to the
American tradition.
A r e th ese co n fessio n s an d b o a stin g s “ u n -A m e r­
ican ,” a n d d e s tru c tiv e to all th a t is th e acm e o f
tru e g re a tn e ss in G en tile-C h ristia n cu ltu re, or
a re th ey n o t?
Throughout five months of history of the First
Dies Committee, not a breath of inquiry, sus­
picion, or scandal, was turned upon the aggres­
sive and predatory tactics of organized Jewry,
responsible for the nation’s ruin throughout the
whole United States.
Instead of attacking this major Menace at its
source, the First Dies Committee engaged in
heckling and harassing the German, Italian, and
Silvershirt-American Gentiles who had made a
knowledge of the foregoing confessions and
boastings, the cornerstone of their organization­
al defense.
78
crackdown program, executed politically and
congressionally, that the scoundrels engaged in
destroying Christian America may proceed to
their achievement without patriotic obstruction.
C The challenge is cast. The glove is thrown.
C I s th e D ie s C o m m itte e o f th e p eo p le’s C on ­
g re s s a cla n d estin e a n d su rre p titio u s a g en cy o f
p re d a to ry J u d a ism , or is it n o t?
The spring and summer of 1939 must show.
Thomas of New Jersey, the man who impeached
Madam Perkins with such childish naivette, has
already gone on record as being a pro-Judaist—
and therefore an upholder and defender of the
Jewish aggressions, subversions and aims that
are explained and verified by the quotations,
boastings and avowed confessions in this book­
let.
Where do the other Committeemen stand?
It will be a pleasure to classify them, and identi­
fy the Dies Committee as a bona fide American-
defensive bloc, or as a palpable part of the
Judaistic Conspiracy itself!
Let Others Know
the Truth
1 j ■ 1 "
, . * .
BY DISTRIBUTING COPIES OF THIS BOOK
PRICE:
Single Copies, by mail prepaid— 25 Cents
SIX COPIES FOR ONE DOLLAR
50 COPIES $7.50
100 COPIES $12.50
Express Collect
For Sale by
The Pelley Publishers
Box 2630
ASHEVILLE - NORTH CAROLINA
