{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__pelley___no_more_hunger.pdf","mytitle":"No More Hunger","mylang":"de"}
NO MORE
HUNGER
by
William Dudley Pelley
presenting
THE CHRISTIAN COMMONWEALTH
Copyright
WILLIAM DUDLEY PELLEY
1 9 3 9
C O N T E N T S
Chapter Page
The Man I Work For............................ I 7
The Job To Be Done........................... II 13
A Program Not A Plan........................ III 19
The Parable of The Water Tank........ IV 26
First, The Program Briefly ................ V 39
Man’s Right To Eat........................... VI 46
How To End Poverty and Crime...... VII 74
How The Commonwealth Is Installed VIII 95
Where The Dividends Come From.... IX 116
Encouraging Rugged Individualism.... X 135
Real Estate ........................................... XI 158
No More Farm Problem...................... XII 179
Taming Our Machines ........................ XIII 199
Determining Each Man’s Worth......... XIV 220
How Retailing Will Improve .............. XV 232
Exit The Banker.................................. XVI 258
The Handling of Our Exports............ XVII 281
Paying The Professions........................ XVIII 303
Racial Qualifications for Benefits....... XIX 322
To Sum Up .......................................... XX 335
■ ' I 2 land )
\ n ■ .
; i
- :! ■i d o t /fT
- ■>'••.-••• f
■ »
. ■5; I
<?e ___ . O'
dt-
;*■r
•! -rO
H
: 7 ■ . - i t . • • ■■ :
- 1 ; > i 1
j.X V - ! I, fi
. f.r*- i : • o r
01:.
'• , * ‘ •
IV X ssjfl ■x 3
• ■
: : X X
I: The Man I Work For
T WAS a spicy fall morning in
1934. All night long I had
been driving—down through
western Virginia, across Ken­
tucky, into eastern Tennessee.
The world had come awake
with the chorusings of robins.
The first vermilion in the skies
above North Carolina had
burned to molten radiance.
The sun had come up. Above
the chimneys of simple cabin homes hung ropes of
drowsy smoke, like cables of charcoal suspended from
the Infinite. C
fl Seven o’clock brought out the first
rakish mule teams going to work. At eight I paused
for breakfast in a small grubby town. By nine the
roads were dotted with traffic—cars hurtling swiftly
toward limitless distance. Then a few miles out of
Morrisville the significance of the morning was forced
on my attention.
Again and again I had passed lumbrous school buses,
filled with youngsters in holiday mien. “Yesterday
was Labor Day,” I said to myself, “this perfect Septem­
ber morning is the first day of school.”
Again and again, too, I had slowed up or halted for one
particular bus that was taking on children. I finally got
around it without breaking the law. Far down the con­
crete, at least a full mile, I came upon a scene that will
never leave my memory.
7
At the edge of the slab, near a rural delivery mail-box,
a little boy waited for the bus that now followed me.
I discerned at a glance that he was a manly little boy.
Not more than six years old, he was likewise a very
cleanly scrubbed and neatly ironed little boy—in a
home-made blue suit and a stiffly starched blouse. On
the back of his small round head was a small round hat.
Twin ribbons hung down from his hat, behind. His
shoes were painfully new; in his left hand he carried
a combination bag for his books and his lunch; in his
right hand, before him, was a fresh and prim bouquet.
Very erect and intensely serious he stood beside the
mail-box. Obviously it was the first time in his life that
he had essayed to the importance of having a lumber­
ing passenger truck halt in its travelings and deign to
receive him. Obviously, too, it was the first time in his
life that he had essayed the valor of journeying far
from home without his mother to preserve him.
His was a tremendously important departure, this first
morning’s leaving and going to school. A long and
ragged lane that ran down from a humble country
house was already a formidable distance behind him.
His lunch was most carefully provided against midday
replenishment of his physical person. The fresh and
prim bouquet was a gift for his teacher.
A person of parts. The world was before him. He was
starting off to school—and yet more than a school that
was held beneath a roof.
He was starting out to learn of the world on the long
and heart-breaking journey that was to circuit many
pitfalls, wind up cruel steeps, cross many morasses, be­
fore he finally retraced his tired little feet to that aster-
bordered lane and Came Home to safe arms that once
8
rocked him to sleep. I drove my car slowly, and very
carefully, past him. And in those brief seconds he was
etched on my memory with acids of sweet pain. I knew
many things. . . .
Once a long life ago, when courage had not been con­
scious, when every hour held sixty golden moments and
time was but a thing to pass away, I too had gone down
a rugged lane before a country house and started for
school with the shine on my cheeks only equalled by my
shoes. That School is still in session. I have yet to
Go Home.
Up behind the kitchen window of that house I knew a
woman watched me. So, too, stood a woman behind
the window in that home in Tennessee, mayhap a
youngish woman although with toil-warped fingers and
a tightness ’round her heart. A few moments previously
she had considered the diminutive importance of this
small male person as he affected not to be sentimental at
the strange kiss she gave him, nor to heed her many
warnings about the traffic on the roads. Across the
yard and down the lane he had manfully stalked his
way, carrying the bouquet in one hand and the lunch-
bag in the other—a bag with her tears mixed into its
stitches. Down the lane to the road she had watched
the bobbing ribbons. Now she was having one last long
look at him as he waited so sedately there by the mail­
box. In a moment the school bus would arrive and
pick him up. The space where he waited would pres­
ently be empty, but not half so empty as that watching
woman’s heart.
I think I stated that he was a very manly and clean
faced little boy. All the dawning wonder at life and the
world was wide in his eyes. He was proud of his new
9
clothes, of his shiny shoes, of his significant lunch-bag,
of his sallying forth to gain scholastic distinction. He
might have wondered at the care with which I passed
him, at the scrutiny I gave him. And yet he saw me
not. He could not miss that bus. The world must
receive him.
I thought of many things as my car resumed its speed.
All over Great America that autumn morning were little
boys of six, starting down the Long Lanes to school. In
forty-eight States of our stricken Commonwealth were
millions of youngish women who had remained up late
the night before, putting finishing touches on sturdy
little clothes, dropping strange tears on the stitches in
lunch-bags. Now in millions of kitchen windows they
were standing—watching for the first and last time in
their lives the hats with bobbing ribbons receding down
the lanes.
How could those little boys of six, the millions of them,
know of the liars, the shysters, the villains, the black­
guards, who waited to instruct them, to whisper weird
enticements, to fill them with illusions and then tear
them asunder? How could they envision what that
singing autumn world about them held, what lecheries
and auguries lay afar down the Highroad?
Who was to protect that little boy of six after life’s
passenger bus had received him and the homely space
by the mail-box was a yet greater void in the tight heart
of Woman?
A great resolution came to me as I left that boy behind
me. I said it as a promise uttered to my Maker, . . .
my Maker and that mother who might yet stand an hour
watching through that window. And yet when I spake
it, it was just a simple statement. I said to myself—
10
“There stands the man for whom I am working!”
Yes! ±S*
Without sentimentality.
The poisoned press of a hoodwinked nation hurls its
diatribes at me for daring to expose the skulduggeries
that would besmirch the Faith in that small boy’s
countenance. is* is*
The conniving satraps of an alien cabal would unleash
the rapacious forces of a prostituted Congress upon the
institutions I have founded to protect that small boy’s
scholarship and keep what wounds I can from his
frightened little heart.
Let them call me a seditionist because I would obliterate
with a finer better order those who now befoul that
small boy’s aspirations and break faith with that woman
watching in that window.
Let them unloose all their dogs of racial wrath and
plotted degradation, sending them forth to pull me down
for daring to love my country and understand the hearts
of taut-faced mothers left behind in empty kitchens.
I know in my own heart of hearts that it is not for
notoriety, for applause of multitudes, for sums of bright
gold, that I am working—to turn the Ship of State to­
ward harbors of splendors. No, not these. I am work­
ing for that six-year-old person who waited for that
school bus on a spicy autumn morning in rural Ten­
nessee. is* is*
Of course he does not know it, although some day it
may come to him. The woman watcher in the window
may only sense it vaguely. But that is my brevet, my
pomp and my ceremony, my pulpit, my adornment.
I am proud to have gained it.
If I would hurl from the heights of their prostituted
1
1
powers those who have climbed high in America's
esteem only to defile her, it is because this land which
I love holds fifty million children, like that little boy by
the roadside, whose eyes must no longer lose their Faith
in the world they envision. Fifty million children! One
of them I shall always remember, standing by the mail­
box that spicy autumn morning. For he is my em­
ployer. His trust is my petard. For him I would pro­
ject the fundamentals of a better organized, more equi­
table world, that his face might forever keep the fresh­
ness that I saw upon it for a moment, that his homely
little lunch-bag might never be emptied, that from the
margins of his school books might flash inspirations.
I do not know where he may be at this moment. I have
no way of learning whether upon his advent into school
he proved himself to be a genius or a dullard. After all,
does it matter?
I say again, and in the light of what follows, that small
boy is my Boss!
He is the nation of Tomorrow, to which I would be­
queath an unblemished heritage.
Such is my premise for the Christian Commonwealth.
12
Job to be Done
UPPOSE that I alter my meta­
phor for a moment.
I have spoken of 50 million
children. That is the number
that exists in the entire United
States out of a total population
of 130 million persons. The
figure is almost exact.
Think what an awe-inspiring
sight it would be if those 50
million children could be as­
sembled together in one vast place, their faces all turned
in a common direction. C
J Think what a still more awe­
inspiring sight it would be if that stupendous youthful
horde suddenly started moving!
Naturally 80 million fathers and mothers, each realizing
that his or her beloved offspring were forward-surging
units in that mass, would be frantically concerned at
knowing just where those 50 million children were go­
ing, and what chasms or mountain peaks lay in their
pathway. tSjf i p
That is the plight which the parents of America con­
front in these fraught Depression years preceding 1940,
only the vast majority of them do not envision this
mighty cavalcade as a definite spectacle. Most of them
are too bedeviled by the struggle to obtain sufficient food
and clothing for their own particular assignment of
youngsters, to waste any time on dramatic imaginings.
€fl They know, in a general way, that things are queerly
13
II: The
wrong with the wholesome and vigorous country where
they lived their own childhood.
They know, from vague and elusive causes, that the
standards of culture, religion, ethics, and business—not
to overlook political government—to which they have
always been accustomed, are undergoing menacing
changes. America has ceased to be the Land of the Free
and Home of the Brave, once eulogized in public school
memorial exercises, and gives disquieting evidence of
being “the Land of the Spree and Home of the Knave.”
Most of the old ideals of honesty, sobriety, and thrift,
have been disparaged and besmirched. Trends are be­
ing aggressively sponsored that would abolish as “old
fashioned” the representative form of government as set
up by the Forefathers and substitute a bureaucratic
Frankenstein, more or less financially subservient to a
little group of plotting radicals securely ensconced at
the top. tj*
Witness the patriotic degeneration of 700 Manhattan
school teachers in recently refusing to take the oath to
the Federal Constitution, and no one doing very much
about it, and those teachers of children continuing in
their jobs!
What 80 million parents of America do not fully under­
stand as yet, is the true nature of the influences that
have been at work to make such a state of affairs the
current American nightmare, why and how they were
first set in motion, what definite plans may be afoot to
alter the whole complexion of this freemen’s Common­
wealth, and what express objective is being aimed at,
having for its achievement the gradual obliteration of
what the United States has always stood for within the
family of nations.
14
Such revelations are too colossal to be grasped or assimi­
lated in one spasm of instruction. Not only has the
average mother and father small time for such re­
searches, but the very suggestion that this once proud
and indomitable country may actually be the victim of a
gigantic foreign conspiracy only shapes up to them as
necromantic nonsense. The newspapers never mention
it. Few statesmen rant against it. Only the exceptional
person discerns that this very incapacity, or skepticism,
on the part of the average adult to grasp what is in
progress, is the impregnable armor protecting such con­
spirators. ty*
In other words, hatch your plot sizable enough to seem
preposterous and you may go about your dastardly busi­
ness feeling entirely secure against any challenge to its
successful consummation.
Nevertheless, the average father and mother sense
vaguely, and not a little affrightedly, that the United
States which their boys and girls are facing at maturity
already gives evidence of being a far different country
than what they had expected it would always be when
they invited children into it.
Assuming that 80 million parents are no longer insen­
sible of the growing spoliation of all that renders human
life wholesome, fine, and moral, it is plain to be seen
that the import of the direction and destination of this
mighty cavalcade of children gives it precedence over all
other problems besetting us at present.
What sort of a United States are those children going to
know when they enter into years of maturity them­
selves? ±*
What sort of government are we spinelessly permitting
to be set up for their enslavement, if any autocracy of
15
atheistic aliens succeeds in demolishing our free insti­
tutions? i #
What dastardly economic conditions are we bequeath­
ing those 50 million youngsters, sure to result from
mountains of bond issues piled zenith high in a soul­
throttling structure of Jewish usury?
Do we mean to invite 50 million boys and girls, with
the same eagerness and faith on their faces that I saw
in the countenance of that little boy on that Tennessee
highroad, to undergo the permanent horrors of a soviet
beggary?
Are their children in turn—our grandchildren—to be
the product of promiscuous free love under a strictly
Asiatic Communism, growing up in a land where re­
ligion, patriotism and personal property rights are
treated with blasphemy, made to fetch and carry in a
land of pioneering forefathers for a breed of foreign
marplots who have looted them systematically and de­
liberately of their cultural heritage?
Or are we, the present generation, as wise parents in­
trusted with their destinies, to challenge and cast down
these aggressive despoilers of their morals and ideals,
taking full note of the evidences of a plot, which
threatens this rising generation to enslave it, and spon­
soring while there is yet time a vigorous and wholesome
program that shall fill the United States of Tomorrow
with freedom and sunlight instead of dark thunder­
clouds of serfdom and poverty?
Here is a problem we cannot escape, that we cannot
ignore, that will never be solved until we face it!
There is no bid for sentimentality in calling attention
to the fact that we have 50 million children concretely
with us, not only dependent on us for food and shelter
16
but for the inalienable right to enjoy the same cultural
and economic privileges that our forefathers in their
turn bequeathed to us.
We may not care especially what becomes of our­
selves, or how the outcome of the Great Conspiracy
treats us in the final summing up of spoliation and per­
sonal ruin. But we cannot escape responsibility for
maintaining for our youngsters those ideals and oppor­
tunities which our forefathers paid for at such a cost of
blood and treasure, and from which we as their children
profited—up to 1929.
It is something for every parent to think about.
There is either of two Americas that we can bequeath
to those 50 millions of eager, trusting, curious children:
we can bequeath them a nation despoiled and beggared,
brought down to the cruelties and debaucheries of an
apostate sovietism, ruled by a caste of quasi-Orientals
who hold in derision all forms of representative institu­
tions, where the children are regimented bondmen in a
land of pioneering forefathers, or, we can bequeath
them a nation intrusted with the execution of a new
economic brevet among men, where government of the
people, for the people, and by the people, shall be in
exercise actually, and on which hard times shall never
again visit with such shocking subversions because the
basic causes producing economic disorder and distress
shall be forever laid.
For periodic occurrences of panic, depression, and eco­
nomic disorder, can be forever laid.
There is a social system that is neither Capitalism,
Socialism, Fascism, nor Communism; that automatically
checkmates the rise to abnormal power of any particular
clique of individuals, either radical, cultural, religious,
17
or financial; that assures to each individual his inalien­
able right to private property and protects him in it
even more indubitably than under present Capitalism;
that establishes and increases patriotism and love of
country instead of degrading and besmirching it; that is
absolutely sound and workable from every economic
standpoint; and that because of its spiritual features in
practical ordering of government and business, has been
termed the Christian Commonwealth!
18
Ill: A Program Not a Plan
T IS like taking a clairvoyant
peep into the United States of
1975 to consider what our
children and grandchildren can
be enjoying in those years—as
contrasted with the black licen­
tiousness and barren treacheries
of paganistic sovietism—for us
of the older generation to
pause for a time and consider
what can be provided for the
eternal happiness and well-being of those 50 million
children by lending reasoning minds and open ears to
what is in prospect to effect a rebirth of sterling Amer­
icanism. Over the past nine years we have had every
sort of snap-judgment plan to get us out of the so-called
Depression: the Stuart Chase Plan that Franklin D.
Roosevelt used as the basis for NRA and which has
proved fallacious; the Townsend Plan that provides for
old-age pensions but makes few recommendations for
anyone else; the Upton Sinclair Plan which was merely
parlor Communism prompting another avalanche of
bonds; the Utopian Plan which was practically a steal
on the first edition of this present work minus the
recommendations for proper political control that would
keep the application of the benefits out of the hands of
the same old predatory clique.
The trouble with most of these measures has been, that
they were not advanced by practical economists who
19
would take into account the country’s actual plight of
lost buying power, that cannot be restored along the old
profit-making and profit-taking lines inside of, probably,
the next three generations.
Some of these Plans contained commendable recommen­
dations for redistributing wealth on a more equitable
basis, without getting down to brass tacks and facing
the staggering truth that there is precious little unbor­
rowed or unpledged wealth left to be distributed. Fur­
thermore, such wealth as they would redistribute would
have to be seized by confiscatory methods. To loot the
present rich, or soak the fortunate that the unfortunate
may benefit, is equally deplorable with making the poor
man of the present face his fate and like it.
What most of the economic strategists have been and
are really trying to do, whether they are honest enough
to admit it or not, is to find some plan that will jump all
of us out of poverty in a day and a night while at the
same time being careful not to alter any of the funda­
mental principles that have always been employed for
accumulating wealth, and that in the hands of master
manipulators have resulted in exactly the evils that
have beggared us today.
They want to retain all the old evils while at the same
time abolishing them. They want to go right along tak­
ing profits on the predatory basis while at the same time
curbing the activities of all individuals who seem to do
it successfully.
Naturally, sooner or later these paradoxical measures
fail. They are advanced by writers who think they are
economists because they treat with economic subjects.
In this they have been aptly described by the wag who
remarked that ‘‘an economist is a financier who hasn’t
20
any money." Meanwhile the only real economists of
the world—the internationally minded Hebrews who
long since recognized that there never is such a thing
as a profit without its being someone else’s loss—
laugh in their sleeves and go right along perfecting their
strategy for mulcting the Gentiles while the Gentiles
let them do it.
The nationless Jew recognizes that the world’s present
economic structure is such that it is slowly bankrupting
itself, but as he will come off the principal creditor, he
is not opposed to letting it happen. The Christian aping
the form of the Jew’s predatory system without realiz­
ing its fundamental or subtle purposes, goes along from
panic to panic, and depression to depression, exhausting
the earth’s natural resources, and imagining that he is
making money because he is able to acquire and possess
money of consequence in the progress of each cycle.
When he runs into serious difficulties, either as an in­
dividual or a nation, he resorts to borrowing, either to
tide himself over the readjustment period or provide a
new stake; never realizing that he is but taking back
and using on a loan basis that which has been mulcted
from him and converted into liquid wealth, which same
mulcting wrought the ruin that first made the readjust­
ment and new stake necessary.
So the vicious circle goes on operating, generation after
generation.
The average Christian, so-called in contrast to the Jew,
is not clever enough in his economic sagacity to grasp
the true nature and behavior of wealth, that there truly
is no such thing as a profit unless it is somebody else’s
loss, or that the modern financial system with its
credits and interest rates cannot be superimposed
21
on a
people who stay in one place generation after genera­
tion and depend on Mother Nature for their increment,
without the latter’s ultimately encountering impoverish­
ment and ruin. Naturally he does not have his atten­
tion called to this catastrophic fact by those who are
slowly and methodically despoiling him. The man who
is clever enough to perceive it, is either hooted down by
those to whose advantage it is to suppress him, or he is
too deeply enmeshed in the rapacious system itself for
him to renounce and correct it without taking a loss.
When an individual falls victim to our predatory-wealth
system of the past, he can always go into a bankruptcy
court and obtain legal license for a fresh start. Then
his creditors are the losers, while those who have taken
advantage of his hard luck or poor business acumen and
got the goods from him that necessitate the bankruptcy,
are the gainers. But when a nation has hard luck, or
its rulers show poor business acumen, it cannot go into
a bankruptcy court and obtain a discharge. It goes
through a cycle of depression, revolution and repudi­
ation. Its taxpayers and real property owners are the
losers, whereas the liquid wealth owners whose system­
atic practices have wrought the debacle, scurry over the
nearest international border with their portable loot and
wait for the readjustment to transpire. Then when
husbandmen and miners have taken fresh wealth from
the earth so that the economic wound is healed,
and there is another stake to be played for on the preda­
tory basis, back they all troop, and the merry game of
“one man’s gain is another man’s loss” starts all over.
€f Something of this nature has happened in the United
States of recent years, as I shall attempt to show.
The fact remains that at the present moment we as a
22
people have contracted a bonded public debt—federal,
state, and municipal—of approximately 65 billions of
dollars.
Of this colossal sum, 11 billions were loaned to Europe­
an nations in the first World War. America will probably
never get it back for the simple reason that those
European nations cannot pay it back without seriously
disrupting their own economic systems—any more than
America herself can discharge the remaining 54 billions
which her federal, state, and municipal governments
owe to their investors. Paying back these billions is not
especially desirable, anyhow. Few seem to realize that
under the present profit system, a nation without a
sizable public debt is in a woeful predicament for cur­
rency with which to transact commerce or provide in­
vestments of security for her thrifty folk. Securities,
so-called, in the last analysis are evidences of indebted­
ness executed by various corporate bodies that have the
resources out of their operations to pay interest charges.
Because they earn interest-wages they are valuable
and are trafficked in or with. Thus we have the travesty,
in all common sense, of money systems and credit
systems based on debt. Of course it is usually a
“secured debt,” which means that somewhere there are
seizable assets of material value to cover it. Never­
theless, the evidences of debt, and not the material
assets themselves, are the basis of finance. Finance,
that is, as the modern world accepts it.
No, it is not always in the size of the public debt that a
nation’s danger lies, unless that debt be so enormous
that the citizens cannot raise the taxes to pay the in­
terest. A nation’s danger lies in acquiring a govern­
ment so bureaucratic, so heavy at the top, and so in­
23
competent in the management of the public business,
that its profligate spending raises all kinds of taxes to
the point where the citizens no longer discern any merit
in being thrifty, in owning or improving property, or in
laying aside funds to provide against public or private
emergencies.
In other words, a nation’s greatest danger lies in a
political condition creating an economic condition where
civic morale is gradually broken down. People say,
“What’s the use in trying to get ahead, to save money,
to buy a home, to keep up an estate against a rainy day
or for the benefit of one’s children? This gang of
shysters in power will only come along and confiscate
it, to raise money for their crazy bureaucratic schemes.”
So they begin to let their properties be foreclosed upon
and sold for the deferred payments or for the taxes. All
of it indicates, of course, the general demoralization of
the public buying and trading power, gluts of goods
that inevitably follow inability to purchase and con­
sume, the working up of business capital into immov­
able inventory, the stagnation of industry and paralysis
of employment, and then the last sequence, utter in­
difference on the part of the individual toward the
public welfare, a feeling that as he has been bilked of
all he had accumulated or held dear, so he has the right
to wrest away from others whatever he sees them still
possessing. Such a people, utterly impoverished and
turned adrift from their acres, disillusioned and hungry,
economic nomads in a land where property has become
concentrated in the hands of a rapacious minority, are
the combustible materials from which rapine and revo­
lution are made.
The real tragedy of this unhappy cycle is, that it takes
24
another one to two generations of gradually accumulat­
ing wealth, directly from Mother Earth’s bounty, to
restore that ravaged and shattered morale, to recreate
that destroyed public buying power. Anything else is
either more confiscation, or merely swapping dollars
around with the required future concretions put up as
security.
Before I attempt to expound just what the Christian
Commonwealth is, therefore, and how it differs basically
from either predatory Capitalism or confiscatory So­
cialism, let me illustrate the true causes of our economic
plight of today by reprinting a trenchant little article
written more than fifty years ago by Edward Bellamy,
called the Parable of the Water Tank.
You will find me making the statement constantly
throughout this book that there is truly no such thing as
a commercial “profit”—that buying in the cheapest mar­
ket and selling in the dearest, according to old Adam
Smith, is a proven fallacy. Some people will be as­
tounded that I should hold such a view inasmuch as men
have been buying, selling and taking profits for gen­
erations and the practical doing of it seems to attest that
it is workable. I say that it is not workable, and the
following Parable of the Water Tank makes my reasons
as clear as they are simple. . . .
25
IV: The Parable of the Water Tank
HERE was a certain very dry
land, the people whereof were
sorely in need of water. And
they did nothing but seek
after water from morning until
night, and many persons per­
ished because they could not
find it. <| Howbeit, there were
certain men in that land who
were more crafty and diligent
than the rest, and these had
gathered stores of water where the others could find
none, and the name of these people was Industrialists.
And it came to pass that the people of the land came unto
the Industrialists and prayed that they would give them
of the water that had been gathered, that they might
drink, for their need was sore. But the Industrialists an­
swered them and said:
“Go to, ye silly people! Why should we give you of the
water which we have gathered, for then we should be­
come even as you are, and perish with you. But behold
what we will do unto you. Be ye our servants and ye
shall have water.”
And the people said, “Only give us to drink, and we will
be your servants, we and our children.” And it was so.
<1Now the Industrialists were men of understanding and
wise in their generation. They ordered the people who
were their servants, into bands, with captains and of­
ficers, and some they put at the springs to dip, and oth­
26
ers did they make to carry the water, and others did they
cause to seek for new springs. And all the water was
brought together in one place, and there did the Indus­
trialists make a great tank for to hold the water. And
the tank was called the Market, for it was there that the
people, even the servants of the Industrialists, came to
get the water.
And the Industrialists said unto the people: “For every
bucket of water that ye do bring unto us and pour into
the tank which is the Market, behold we will give you a
penny. But for every bucket that we do draw forth
that ye may drink it, ye and your wives and children,
ye shall give unto us two pennies, and the difference
shall be our profit, seeing that if it were not for this
profit we would not do this thing for you, and ye should
all perish.”
And it was good in the people’s eyes, for they were dull
of understanding, and they diligently brought water
unto the tank over many days. And for every bucket
which they did bring, the Industrialists gave them every
man a penny. But for every bucket which the Indus­
trialists drew forth to give again unto the people, be­
hold the people rendered unto the Industrialists two
pennies.
And after many days the water tank, which was the
Market, overflowed at the top, seeing that for every
bucket which the people poured in, they received only
so much as half a bucket in money, or only such money
as would buy half a bucket. And because of the excess
that was left of every bucket, did the tank overflow, for
the people were many but the Industrialists were few
and could drink no more than the others.
And when the Industrialists saw that the water over­
27
flowed, they said unto the people, “See ye not that the
tank, which is the Market, doth overflow? Sit ye down,
therefore, and be patient, for ye shall bring us no more
water till the tank be empty.”
But when the people no more received the pennies of
the Industrialists for the water which they brought, they
could buy no more water from the Industrialists, hav­
ing naught wherewith to buy. And when the Industrial­
ists saw that they had no more profit because no man
bought more water of them, they were troubled. And
they sent men forth in the highways, the byways, and
the hedges, crying: “If any thirst, let him come to the
tank and buy water from us, for it doth overflow.” For
they said among themselves: “Behold, the times are
dull and we must advertise!”
But the people answered, saying: “How can we buy
unless ye do hire us, for how else shall we have the
wherewithal to buy? Hire us, therefore, as before, and
we will gladly buy water, for we thirst, and ye will have
no need to advertise.”
Whereupon the Industrialists said unto the people:
“Shall we hire you to bring water when the tank, which
is the Market, doth already overflow? Buy ye, there­
fore, water first, and when the tank is empty through
your buying, then will we hire you again.”
Yet in that the Industrialists hired them no more to bring
water, the people could not buy the water they had
brought already, and because the people could not buy
the water they had brought already, the Industrialists
no more hired them to bring water.
And the saying went abroad: “It is a crisis!”
And the thirst of the people was great, seeing that the
Industrialists had taken all the springs, and the wells,
28
and the water-wheels, and the vessels, and the buckets,
so that no man might come by water save from the tank,
which was the Market. And the people murmured
against the Industrialists and cried: “Behold, the tank
runneth over, yet do we die of thirst. Give us there­
fore of the water lest we perish.”
But the Industrialists answered: “Not so, the water is
ours. Ye shall not drink of it unless ye do buy it with
your pennies.” And they confirmed it with an oath,
saying after their manner: “Business is business!”
But the Industrialists were disquieted, that the people
brought no more water, nor bought it, whereby they no
more had any profits. So they spake among themselves,
saying: “It seemeth that our profits have stopped our
profits, and by reason of the profits we have made, we
can make no more profits. How is it that our profits
have become unprofitable to us and our gains do really
make us poor? Let us therefore send for the Soothsay­
ers that they may interpret this thing unto us.” And
they sent for them.
Now the Soothsayers were men learned in dark ways
and sayings, who joined themselves unto the Industrial­
ists by reason of their water, that they might drink there­
of and live, even they and their wives and their children.
And they spake for the Industrialists unto the people,
and did their embassies for them, seeing that the Indus­
trialists were not a folk quick of understanding, neither
ready in swift speech.
And the Industrialists demanded of the Soothsayers
that they should interpret this thing unto them, where­
fore it was that the people bought no more water of them
although the tank was full. And certain of the Sooth­
sayers answered and said: “It is by reason of over-
29
production,” and others said: “It is a glut,” but the
significance of the two words is the same. And others
said, “Now, it is by reason of spots on the sun.” And
yet others answered saying: “It is neither by reason of
glut, nor spots on the sun, that this evil hath come to
pass, but by reason of lack of confidence!”
And while the Soothsayers contended thus among them­
selves, according to their manner, the men of profit did
slumber and sleep, and when they awoke they said unto
the Soothsayers: “It is enough. Ye have spoken com­
fortably unto us. Now go forth and speak comfortably
likewise unto the people, that they may buy our water
and so resume our profits.”
But the Soothsayers, even the men of a dismal science,
were loath to go forth among the people lest they
should be stoned, for the people loved them not, neither
saw they any possibility of gaining to the water by their
utterings. And they said to the Industrialists:
“Masters, it is a mystery to our craft that if men be full
and thirst not, then do they find comfort in our speech
even as ye. But if they thirst and be empty, they do
find no comfort therein but rather mock us, for it seem-
eth that unless a man be full, our wishes appeareth
unto him as emptiness.” But the Industrialists cried:
“Go ye forth! Are ye not our men, to do our em­
bassies?”
So the Soothsayers went forth unto the people and ex­
pounded unto them the mysteries of over-production,
and how it was that they must needs perish of thirst be­
cause there was over-much water, and how there could
not be enough because there was too much.
And the people reviled them, saying: “Go up, ye bald
heads: Will ye mock us? Doth plenty breed famine?
30
Doth nothing come out of much?
And they took up stones to stone them.
OW WHEN the Industrialists saw that the
people still murmured and would not give
ear to the Soothsayers, and because they
feared that the people would come unto
the tank and take the water by force, they
brought forth unto them certain holy men
called clergymen and priests, who spake unto the people
that they should be quiet and trouble not the Indus­
trialists, but buy the water as the Industrialists had in­
structed.
And these holy men testified unto the people that unless
they did as the Industrialists instructed they should con­
sider that their affliction was sent unto them of God for
the healing of their souls, and that if they should bear
it with patience, and lust not after the water, neither
revile the Industrialists, it would come to pass that after
they had given up the ghost they would come into a
country where there would be no Industrialists but an
abundance of water. Howbeit, there were certain true
prophets of God also, and these had compassion upon
the people and would not prophesy for the Industrialists
but rather spake constantly against them.
Now when the Industrialists saw that the people still
murmured and would not be still, neither for the words
of the Soothsayers nor for the priests, they came forth
themselves unto them and put the cups of their palms
in the water that overflowed in the tank, and bathed the
heads of the people, seeing that they did suffer of thirst,
and they scattered the drops from the tips of their fin­
gers abroad on the people who thronged about the tank.
31
And the name of the wetting of the heads of the peo­
ple with bits of water for which the Industrialists suf­
fered not, was Charity, and they were hailed as hu­
manitarians and greatly to be emulated, seeing that they
were charitable.
But the people were exceeding bitter and showed small
gratitude for the bits of water so wasted on their heads.
•J When the Industrialists saw yet again that neither for
the words of the Soothsayers, nor the holy men, nor for
the charity, would the people be stilled, but raged the
more and crowded upon the tank as though they would
take it by force, then took they counsel together with
their senators and with their congressmen, and with
those wise in politics, to show them a way to bring back
Prosperity, seeing that the people no more did buy the
water from their tank. Then the senators and the con­
gressmen did appoint committees, and did call in the
Experts and the mighty men of finance, and they did
debate and constantly seek advice. And the Experts
and the mighty men of finance did make response, see­
ing the difficulty, “There is but one final and drastic
solution to this problem. We must levy a great tax on
this people, called a tax at the source. Then as they do
pay the tax unto us, we will lend you moneys from this
government, and ye may build yet more tanks and have
the people fill them with the water. Then will this peo­
ple have employment once again and no longer will they
murmur against you.”
Then the Industrialists did perceive that here indeed
were men of sense, and they did prepare for a great busi­
ness “boom” and cause it to be inserted in the public
journals that “Prosperity was just around the corner.”
And the senators and the congressmen passed the great
32
tax law. And the taxpayers received the embassies of
government but they said unto them: “How is it that ye
would levy a great tax upon us, seeing that we do lack
money already to buy the water and slake our thirst?”
But the tax was assessed, and many of the people’s sheep
and goats and vestments were taken when they had not
the pence to pay the tax. These did the money chang­
ers alter into pence. And the government made its loans
to the Industrialists and they did build new tanks, and
presently the people were all at work once more, fetch­
ing the water for one penny but for every bucketful
which they drew out to slake their thirst they were made
to pay two pennies. And presently the new tanks over­
flowed as before. Then did the people murmur louder
than ever, for they had been promised that the employ­
ment would last forever, and that the senators and the
congressmen had solved the situation.
)W WHEN the murmuring was mightier
than ever because the people had been
disillusioned by those who reigned in pow­
er over them, again did the Industrialists
counsel among themselves, for fear was in
their hearts at that which the people might
do in their extremity. So did they privily send men
forth among the people. And these men sought out
those who were mightiest of stature among the people,
and all who had skill in war, and took them apart and
spake craftily to them, saying:
“Come now, why cast ye not your lot in with the In­
dustrialists? If ye be their men and serve them against
the people, that they break not in upon the tanks, then
33
shall ye have an abundance of water that ye perish not,
neither ye nor your children.”
And the mighty men, and they who were skilled in war,
harkened to this speech and suffered themselves to be
persuaded, for their thirst constrained them. And they
went in unto the Industrialists and became their men,
and swords and staves were put in their hands, and they
became a defense unto the Industrialists and smote the
people down when they came upon the tank.
Now it came to pass in that land that as the people
thirsted, there arose certain men of clear vision and true
reasonings who perceived the cause of the sufferings of
the people. And they stood forth and spake unto those
sufferers, saying that they should associate, and investi­
gate the reasons for their sufferings, seeing that the
Industrialists were as blind as themselves as to what was
the trouble. Then the people would have no need to be
.servants of the Industrialists and should thirst no more
for water. But in the eyes of the Industrialists these
were pestilential fellows and demagogues and makers
of seditions, and the Industrialists fain would have cast
them into prison, or crucified them, in that they did
preach the alteration of government unto those afflicted
by their thirst. For the words of the true thinkers which
they spake unto the people were in this wise:
“Ye foolish people! How long will ye be deceived by
a lie and believe to your hurt that which is not so? For
behold all these things which have been said unto you
by the Industrialists and the Soothsayers and the priests
and the senators were but cunningly devised fables.
And particularly the holy men who said it is the will of
God that ye should always be poor and miserable and
athirst. Behold, they do blaspheme God, and are liars
34
whom He will bitterly judge though He forgive all oth­
ers. How happeneth it that ye may not come by the
water that is in the tanks? Did God not create it for
your thirst, that ye shouldst partake of it freely? Is it
not because ye do have no pence? And why have ye
no pence? Is it nol because ye did receive but one
penny for every bucket that ye did bring unto the tank
but must render two pennies for every bucket that ye do
take out, so that the Industrialists might have their prof­
it? See ye not how this means the tank must overflow,
being filled by that which ye are made to lack? Is it not
made to abound out of your emptiness? See ye not also
that the harder ye do toil and the more diligently ye do
seek and bring the water, the worse and not the better
shall it be for you by reason of the profit, which existeth
not except in the minds of those who do deny you?”
<J After this manner spake the true thinkers for many
days, and the people made answer, saying: “Ye do say
aright. It is because of the system by which the Indus­
trialists set themselves up as owners of the water, and
makers of profits which truly exist not, that we suffer.
We do perceive now that our labor is in vain, and that
the more we do toil to fill the tank, the sooner doth it
overflow and we receive nothing because there is too
much. But behold the Industrialists are hard men, and
they have set our mightiest against us. Even our sena­
tors who do make our laws are their men, and if we do
challenge them we imperil Existing Institutions. Tell
us if ye do know of any way whereby we may deliver
ourselves out of our bondage to them.”
And the true thinkers spake unto the people and said:
“Behold, are ye not a sovereign people and do ye not
elect those who make the laws of this land under whom
35
the Industrialists reside? Can ye not say truly, ‘It is
unlawful for any man to restrict God’s bounty which he
doth seize from Mother Earth? If they obey not such
laws then are they unlawful, and lawless, and against
the government which protecteth them, and ye have a
right to go against them, even to Take their tanks and
the water therein. Behold was not one of them built
with the pence whereof ye were taxed?”
And the people answered: “How shall we go about to
do this thing, for it seemeth goodly unto us?”
And the true thinkers answered: “Choose ye discreet
and noble men to go in and out before you, and to mar­
shal your bands and order your labor, and these men
shall be as the Industrialists; but behold, they shall not
be your masters, but your brethren and servants who do
your will, and they shall not take any profits but every
man his share among the others, and ye shall labor mu­
tually together, and draw such water as all may need,
and drink what ye have drawn. And if the Industrialists
join you and want whereof ye drink to quench their
thirst, let them have it but no more. And if the tank
hath need of repairing, let those who are skilled among
you fall to and repair it, but always it shall be for you
and your children as ye fill it.”
And the people said: “So let it be as ye have said, for
we do make the laws and we do will it.”
And the Industrialists heard the noise of the shouting
and what the people said, and the Soothsayers heard it
also, and the false priests, and the senators, and the
mighty men of war, who were likewise a defense unto
the Industrialists. And when they heard, they trem­
bled exceedingly, so that their knees smote together,
and they said one to another: “Unless we can bring
36
down with infamy in our journals, these thinkers who
thus advise the people, it is the end of us. In that this
populace hath taken that which hath been sovereign to
it from the beginning, and knoweth whereof it hath
taken it, so institutions totter, which are ourselves!”
But the true thinkers said: “Nay, we do but save you
from the condition whereof ye did suffer as much as did
the populace, for when the tank was full, all benefit
ceased to you even as to the people. That the people
order their affairs by true laws, exercising their voice
which the Fathers set up, is neither violence nor fraud
nor wreckage of institutions, but making the false gov­
ernments the true government, not the government of
your henchmen, Industrialists!”
But the Industrialists moaned and could not see it, for
lo their power had been taken from them. But there
was no more thirst in that land and all dwelt together
in plenty. Lo the tanks were not abolished, nor the
springs, nor the wells, nor the buckets. The people
filled the tank, which was the Market, according as they
had need or against the time of drought, and they drew
equally from the tank and were replenished.
And that land prospered because the wise men and the
true thinkers had ordered the people from their wisdom,
not for powers in profits but for profits in powers.
And the blessing of God rested upon that land and there
were none who thirsted.
37
O WROTE Edward Bellamy fifty years by­
gone. tj Today America faces a condition
where the pennies which the workers have
earned since the time he wrote, have be­
come lodged in the hands of men who see
neither pleasure nor profit in permitting
the multitude to know universal prosperity. Prosperity
is something peculiar to themselves, their race, their
conditionings in circumstance. They want to go on in­
definitely building tank after tank with government
moneys—in turn raised by selling out the chattels of the
populace when they are lacking pence—and preaching
the Return of Prosperity because the laborers are per­
mitted to fill each tank and then draw out half of what
they have brought, because their wages will not permit
otherwise. A program of systematic and permanent
tank building, seems to them to offer the ultimate and
adequate solution of the world’s economic problems.
Somehow the whole system is wrong from the begin­
ning. But how to change it without bloodshed is the
problem—and what to substitute in its place that will
make the United States a land of perpetual economic
sunlight for those fifty million children entering matur­
ity, is the seeming enigma of the moment.
Only it is not an enigma! We might almost use the
metaphor that the most accurate details of a whole
splendorful system that provides against the evils of the
present, and any further repetition of them in future,
have been clairvoyantly captured out of that future for
our enlightenment now.
38
V: First, The Program Briefly
NFORTUNATELY, when the
average man hears the words
“new system” uttered or writ­
ten, or when some enthusiastic
person begins to prate about a
“better economic order,” the
immediate conclusion is drawn
that some sort of violent revo­
lution is being recommended or
promoted, or that the sponsor
is indulging in philosophical
day dreams because he has lost his business or can’t find
a job. <J Furthermore a Wise Teacher has aptly re­
marked: “Tell men not too great truths with sudden­
ness, lest they turn and rend you, or call you addled in
your wits.”
The program embodied in the Christian Common­
wealth, however, is not political but economic. So it
does not particularly require successful installation by
physical violence. Also it seems that our political insti­
tutions need not be changed in the slightest. It is quite
correct for the United States to have its Chief Executive
elected every four years by mandate of its citizens, its
Senate and House of Representatives, its Supreme Court
and Secretaries over governmental departments. Of
course, there is no call for the present Moscow-inspired
federal bureaucracy, un-American to the core, being ex­
panded and intrenched so that the present political oli­
garchy can never be cast from power.
39
But in our ways of doing business, earning money,
handling trade and commerce, building and owning
homes, providing against unemployment and old-age
dependency, some startling discoveries are in store for
this nation as a whole—startling, that is, in a sense of
the ease and sanity with which our present national
headaches can be stopped or lessened.
Let us get it into our minds at once just how, by lawful
Constitutional Amendment approved and passed by a
majority of our State legislatures, the American people
can forever cure the appalling ills of present-day society
constructed on the archaic principle of Predatory Hun­
ger, by envisioning the following measures and econom­
ic stipulations— ip
A Christian Commonwealth under which the entire
nation is freed of its present load of killing debt—
federal, state, and municipal—by turning itself into a
gigantic Corporation, its present morass of obligations
properly funded by stocks instead of bonds—stocks that
can lie forever in the status quo, and represent perma­
nent values, without ever having to be redeemed—with
our native-born and naturalized citizens its only Com­
mon Stockholders, voting and controlling the Great
Corporation by right of such nativity or naturalization.
t|J A Commonwealth in which these Common Stock­
holders—as one of their inalienable rights as citizens
of the United States—each arbitrarily and permanently
receive a basic annual dividend from such ownership of
Common Stock, payable to them in twelve monthly al­
lotments or “credits” of sufficient size to supply them
with the crude necessities of life and forever remove
the Hunger Duress from their habits of economic think­
ing. This Common Stock dividend, accrued from auto­
40
matic sources hereafter to be described, shall come to
them whether they are men or women, married or sin­
gle, and would probably amount to something like
$1,000 yearly, or $83 monthly, or $20 weekly.
A Commonwealth in which, in addition to the above,
variable sums of the Great Corporation’s dividend-pay­
ing Preferred Stock are to be issued to its citizens to re­
ward their disposition toward initiative, ambition, in­
dustry, and thrift—such stock to pay dividends in addi­
tion to the dividend on the Common Citizenship Stock
—which cannot be bought, sold, or exchanged or other­
wise manipulated or endangered by predatory individ­
uals or rapacious groups of public exploiters.
A Commonwealth in which annual production is
gauged by the general and normal consuming capacities
of the whole citizenry, taken by groups of years, and
not by the prevalent buying-power of the public, nor
yet by unnatural legislative decree whose fundamental
purpose is to keep the mirage of profits.
A Commonwealth in which money in the form of
specie gradually becomes archaic because it is more or
less bothersome and inhibitive to the uncircumscribed
exercise of industry and initiative, and where the citi­
zenry does its commercial business wholly by the em­
ployment of bank cheques—where, in short, every citi­
zen in the land has a chequing account and uses it uni­
versally for all legitimate transactions.
A Commonwealth in which all rights to private prop­
erty and homestead premises are made so inviolate and
inalienable that it shall be as unlawful as it is un­
thinkable to foreclose on either for debt, and where
homestead properties which have even been foreclosed
upon and wrested away in the present span of manu­
41
factured hard times shall by lawful procedure be re­
stored to rightful owners, whose reasonable equities will
be credited, as a matter of sound economic policy and
public morals.
A Commonwealth in which there are no more taxes
of any nature levied on the citizens because the need of
taxes to finance the operation of government shall have
been forever abolished, taxes becoming as bothersome
and useless as old-fashioned specie.
A Commonwealth in which there is no more com­
mercial interest levied or paid in any borrowings, be­
cause men shall no longer have occasion to look to the
increment from investments for their income, in the
character of charges made for the renting of money.
Thus interest and usury are dispensed with, and with in­
terest and usury will go three-quarters of the evils at­
tendant on the mischievous issuance of mortgages and
bonds—all liens upon men’s futures.
A Commonwealth in which there are no rents paid
for the occupancy of premises which men occupy as
homes, but a system of purchase substituted, no matter
how small, no matter how transient, the sum-total of
moneys so applied going to pay for the ownership of
Realty Stock which may be negotiated for homestead
occupancy anywhere within the United States and no
loss ever suffered in any such real estate transactions,
flf A Commonwealth in which all citizens labor of
their own free volition and natural choice under a sort
of perpetual Civil Service without the slightest sugges­
tion of being regimented, compensations and rewards
for labor being premised solely on efficiency and talent,
and graduated as to promotion according to the work­
er’s industry and value in his selected vocation.
42
A Commonwealth in which major legislation cannot be
announced as law to be obeyed, until it has been ap­
proved by commendatory votes of 51 percent of those
citizens expected to obey it.
A Commonwealth in which incompetent or dishonest
officials can be quickly and effectively impeached and
removed by recall or impeachment votes of 51 percent
of the citizenry of the districts affected.
A Commonwealth in which all voting, for or against
incumbents of office, or for or against legislation, is done
through the public post instead of through the present
cumbersome and lecherous polling-place that now has
to be operated for the production of the secret ballot
because men are economically obligated to other men
and any hostile votings might make them the objects
of reprisals.
A Commonwealth in which all votes so cast, for or
against a man or a measure, are published and then pre­
served as public property, thus abolishing dishonest
tallying of returns.
|HIS, in brief, is the program that can be
consummated. Just how these various
V3J frxq features can be brought about, the sound-
y j ness or unsoundness of them, what evils
WQ they remedy and what quandaries of the
WAiWii preSent they swiftly solve, must be left
to detailed exposition in the pages that follow.
The point to be impressed here is, that none of the fore­
going, strictly speaking, is either Capitalism, Socialism,
Fascism, or Communism, but an entirely different prin­
ciple in human government—details concerning which
43
are rigorously censored or suppressed by modern educa­
tional institutions, supported by endowment from the
world’s present Water Tank owners who want the at­
tendant Soothsayers to tell the people that there is no
other way to avoid the effects of drought than by buy­
ing water with pennies they do not possess.
It is no apportioning of property among all classes, no
whittling down of rugged individualism to a common
mean, no slave-driving workhouse methods in produc­
tive or creative industry, but an opportunity for the
simple, bloodless, easy rebirth of the American pioneer­
ing spirit, a state of Common Wealth indeed, in which
a sovereign people take their affairs permanently out
of the hands of monopolists in human life.
It is time for clear thinking and unobstructed seeing.
There is a new order in human affairs coming in on the
heels of all this distress and upset, and the spoliation and
debauchery of Christian institutions. The present rad­
icals, in Washington and elsewhere, many of them sin­
cere men who simply do not recognize the nature or
subtlety of the leadership they are following, sense it
blindly and respond to it instinctively. Even Franklin
D. Roosevelt is lending his office to it—abortively be­
cause the “same old predatory gang” is truly behind his
Administration and seeking to control the alteration—
and a thousand lesser intellects are agreeing with his
gropings. Can we get over our timidity and skepticism
against anything different from what we have always
known, and consider this truly Christian plan for eco­
nomic government on its merits?
If we cannot, it makes no difference to that incoming
Government itself, toward which all trends are now
pointing. Our bigotry and cupidity only make us the los­
44
ers, keep us dallying in the procession of events, and in­
crease our load of confusion and despair.
What follows is the definite program of accomplishment
toward truly enlightened and constructive ends of na­
tional metamorphosis, that a great band of Christian
men and women throughout all America have set their
hands and talents to achieve.
45
VI: Man’s Right to Eat
O BEGIN with, no matter how
the Water Tank owners, the
food profiteers and the exploit­
ers of the gullible or unfortu­
nate, lash a subtly controlled
press to howl down or defame
those who see the imbecility of
expecting permanent prosper­
ity to come out of an economic
system that has to go bankrupt
every little while in order to re­
adjust itself, the trend of developing human intelligence
must finally demand that this happen—
The theocratic State to be evolved by a people who are
truly Christian, must be distinguished by an economic
structure that rests squarely and securely on the right
and liberty of every citizen to live—and exercise such
talents as God may have given him—devoid of barba­
rous duress from physical want.
Do you grasp this for all it means in its stark and ren­
ovating significance, as contrasted with present-day
practices of “every man for himself, and the devil take
the hindmost” ?
It is acknowledged by all competent authorities on state­
craft that the first duty of a government is to protect in­
violate the lives of its citizenry.
For that purpose were governments instituted among
men from the beginning. Any government which fails
46
to offer the citizen full protection to life and limb is no
government at all, and can command small respect from
those beneath it.
Up to this present period in the world’s history, this
great first tenet of government has been but one-half
exercised. That is to say, “protection” has comprised
only a structure of safety against external violence to
the citizen’s person.
The citizen has demanded, and in some measure re­
ceived, either from tribal chief, feudal lord, king, or or­
ganized Congress, the armor of the collective force of his
fellows against the physical attacker, whether the latter
be the solitary thug waylaying him in a darkened avenue
or the cohorts of the public enemy invading the national
domain. i f
Such physical protection has always been the corner
stone of government stability. But a truly Christian
regime would recognize that this has been but one-half
the performance of a state, or rather, the state has pro­
tected against sudden death by external means only.
The enlightened recognize with fearless eyes and unin­
timidated reasonings that there is no essential difference
between cracking a man’s skull with a club in defiance
of the policeman on the corner, and putting him in his
grave by the slower and less dramatic procedure of deny­
ing him food to sustain and carry on the physical proc­
esses of his mortal body.
Visionary as it may appear at first reading to genera­
tions of men educated under the Hunger System, a so­
cial order is on the threshold, in which raw elemental
food is to be made quite as free as the air required by
the lungs to breathe or the water necessary to facilitate
the body’s metabolism.
47
The enlightened recognize that a society constructed on
the duress of hunger is a slave society, quite as malev­
olent in its effects on the slave-directing element as
upon the slaves themselves.
All men shall have three items of sustenance assured to
them by the very fact of their being endowed with life
in the body by God Himself: Air! Water! Bread!
All other rudiments and elements in human society shall
be supplementary to these, and apart from them. How
many suits of clothes a man possesses, what labor he
works at, what priced automobile he drives, whether he
also has cake and wine to follow his bread and water—
these items are all irrelevant to the great basic tenet that
a man being born by the procreational invitation of his
parents cannot be subject to a constant death-threat
throughout his days by having a privileged set of in­
dividuals withhold from his stomach what they would
also withhold from his lungs and his throat if they only
knew some method of effecting those monopolies.
HIS is not the place to argue yet whether or
not this would make drones. This is not
the place to argue just now that “it has
never been done before in human history”
and the experience of nations is against
it. This is not the place to argue that such
a rebirth of economic life makes the government a
paternity, that it means the introduction of Socialism or
Communism, which it does not, or the overthrow of ex­
isting institutions.
Railing against it, using expletives, decrying the en­
lightened as dangerous visionaries or State enemies
48
merely because they report what they discern, are all so
much energy childishly wasted.
The true Christian State should say to men: “You get
your food from Mother Earth, which is God’s store­
house, exactly as the Father likewise provided Air and
Water on which your lives were to be sustained. No
clever and predatory monopolists, seizing human inven­
tions or human serf-talents to perpetuate such monop­
oly, have the slightest right to build fences around the
door to God’s storehouses for the whole human race,
and say who shall enter and partake, upon paying those
fence-builders a tariff, and who shall be turned aside
to starve because they lack the shekel.”
The Christian State would say to men: “You shall work
to obtain the accoutrements and comforts of life in the
exact degree that your effort and talent merit them,
yes! But the actual right to live is not involved in
these. The right to live, because your parents have in­
vited you into mortality, carries with it the fundamental
means to live. If, as the privileged class might argue,
men will no longer enter industrial service, without the
duress of the need of bread, then the privileged ele­
ment will have to do without servants. At the most,
it will have to make work enticing and attractive instead
of being the product of the energy of lashed serfs. We
recognize no difference between the lash of the Negro
overseer and the lash of the gnawing stomach. Both
make for physical agony. Both are expedients that rest
on the employments of physical violence. Both belong
to an age of barbarism.”
49
T IS upon this great fundamental tenet
that an incoming Christian State would
seem to rest. And to make it practical,
accomplishable, and devoid of the drones
that the sound-headed sociologist fears,
an entirely different form of economic
machinery must grow from the old. Our farmers
today are crying for “relief” and there is no relief. Nor
can there ever be a permanent relief for farmers by
trying to patch up and remake the present systems of
economic administration.
This means what it means.
Farmers, let it be solemnly asserted, are a class of public
servants. They are the true custodians of the Almighty’s
beneficence. True, they put forth a gruelling manual
labor to take from God’s storehouse that which gives
the rest of the race the sustenance on which to live.
But that is because the methods of farming are at fault.
'<| There is not the slightest reason why farm labor
should be any more gruelling, unpleasant, or uninter­
esting than any other human employment. The advent
of machinery and methods of crop cultivation that are
becoming almost mechanical, mean a constantly in­
creasing rate of production that in course of time will
make the farmer little more than a head-worker.
The farmer is the public supporter of the State in that
he takes from God’s storehouse the wherewithal to keep
the State in existence. As such he is going to be recog­
nized as a privileged class that labors for the whole
public, exactly as the statesman labors for the whole
public, and with quite as much honor and esteem. He
will be remunerated by the whole public exactly as
executives are at present, and what he produces will
50
belong to the whole public—or the body politic com­
posing the State. And in belonging to the whole public
this product will be distributed among the citizenry as
an annual dividend from their stockholdings in the Great
Corporation which our government must become.
|HERE is no other enduring remedy for the
so-called farm problem. The government
may try to help the farmer by buying and
selling his products, by subsidies, by all
WQ jr?*^**^ the rest of the frantic manipulating that
tries to keep alive an archaic system that
has already been given its death-thrust by machinery.
But in all of it, an antiquated administrative system is
trying to stop evolution by issuing legislative decrees.
It cannot be done, and our legislators and people must
come to see it.
The State’s fundamental obligation to preserve and pro­
tect life, which it now confines merely to succor against
outward physical attack, by giving every man, woman,
and child in America the proper amount of food to keep
them physically, mentally, and morally healthy as a
natural right that goes with citizenship, is going to re­
cast the whole idea of economics and automatically cor­
rect a thousand abuses in politics, finance, and com­
merce which the witless citizen scarcely understands.
This is no more paternity in government than public
school education is paternity in government, or the erec­
tion of the George Washington Bridge between Morn-
ingside and Hackensack in New York is paternity in
government. i?
As for making drones by providing food by which men
may live as a feature of their citizenship, any pratical
51
humanitarian and sociologist knows that putting food
in men’s stomachs does not make drones of them. It
produces exactly the antithesis of dronery. Food
energizes! It makes for mentality and temperamental
balance. A race of properly fed men is a race of
healthy bodied, clear-brained men. The public has other
means of treating with dronery besides barbarous starva­
tion. Again, we say, barbarous starvation is a form of
the lash. The lash never yet cured a drone or made
him go to work at labor that was truly worth much to
the whole public. Dronery is a product of either faulty
metabolism due to malnutrition or bodily illness that
really needs medical attention, or it is a form of reprisal
on society for economic inequality—as the vagabond
who realizes his hopelessness under our present social
administration of ever really bettering himself. African
lethargy is quite something else, as I shall bring out
later, t?
Under the Christian Commonwealth the man who will
not work to uphold the sort of administration that pro­
tects him both from the thug’s gun and the profiteer’s
avarice—protects forsooth both his head and his
stomach—will suffer the same social ostracism and
odium that attended on slackerism in the late War.
Now, how is all this to be actualized without bringing
in Communism?
52
OMMUNISM, as the Enlightened know it,
and are fighting it today, does not make
the functioning of government one whit
different from those nations that are not
Communistic. Communism is not the
Government that is coming in under
Christian Economy, but is a mere exchange of the
Czarism of the Romanoffs for the Czarism of Stalin and
an administration of certain imbecile and brutal Rus­
sian Jews.
The Russian people were hoodwinked in their socialistic
experiment, expecting to set up a government in which
everyone would benefit instead of the privileged few.
It was really a revolt of the masses inspired by propa­
ganda and no sooner were these masses supposedly en­
throned than the new absolutism became a second
tyranny, killing some 1,670,000 White Russians in
order to maintain its power and “liquidating” some 30,-
000,000 more—all of which is of course literal history.
<J But what the Russians really wanted to do in the first
place was to rid themselves of personal tyrants or des­
pots in the persons of certain royal aristocrats. The
Colonials wanted to get rid of George III, exactly as the
Russians wanted to get rid of Nicholas II. When both
kings had been discarded, the immediate alternative was
to set up a government which in nowise corrected the
fundamental economic evils which in the present hour
of civilization are the basis of tyranny.
Furthermore, if the people only realized it, while the
tyranny of Sovietism is managed by the brutality of
force, Americans are held under the tyranny of the
press—a press which may only print that which it is
permitted to receive, with a public whose much-vaunted
53
liberty is merely the liberty to think as they are allowed
to think—not to speak of the serfdom and whip-lash
of necessity, more appropriately known as the Hunger-
Duress. ip i p
For the purpose of our reasoning it makes little differ­
ence that the Russians have set up the Czarism of Stalin,
and the American patriots strove after a Republic. In
either instance, the frenzied desire to get rid of personal
tyrants overlooked the fundamental remedy which must
be achieved—merely substituting one form of tyranny
for another, which is why our present Republic finds
itself in the hands of a money-bund with all free insti­
tutions threatened, the same as the Russian people find
themselves in the hands of Stalin’s cheka with all per­
sonal liberty curtailed under the travesty of “Liberty,
Fraternity, Equality.”
The Continental Congress took the place of George III,
and the Soviet Politbureau took the place of Nicholas II.
Whereat both Congress and Soviets let certain blunders
and stupidities of government go along as before.
Because the Americans eliminated George III and set up
a government with a Congress in his place, they fancied
they had attained to lasting political freedom.
Neither caught the true essence of public sovereignty,
that government should be the facile servant of all the
people within the commonwealth acting as a unit, and
actually “serve” them, not play the autocrat over them
and tell them arbitrarily what they should do.
Because the Americans split George III up into two or
three hundred little Georges III of their own nomination,
and named this chopped-up kingship the Congress,
Americans fancied they had attained to lasting political
freedom, ip ip
54
It was no more political freedom, than Russian Com­
munism is the rule of the proletariat. So both are hav­
ing plenty of trouble and leaving the other nations of
the world increasingly skeptical as to whether either or
any form of republicanism is workable.
Both are organized on the exploitation basis. That is
to say, both apply the hunger lash to make men labor
under a system that sets up no real safeguard between
the citizenry and the voracious element.
A Christian Commonwealth says: “Let the people
actually be supreme and let their government be their
servant. The first tenet of government is to protect
and preserve life, then to educate, then to beautify the
mortal tenure as the people themselves may find ex­
pedient. Protection and preservation of life mean eco­
nomic as well as police protection. The government
exists to do all those things which can be better done
collectively, or by the whole people acting as a unit
through its executives, than by the citizens either as
individuals or sectional groups. When sectional groups
try to do things, they cannot grasp the perspective of the
people as a whole, and one section may harm the other.
It is not paternity in government to do things facilely
and for the non-injury of the whole. Therefore, society
should build its institutions on human ingenuity and
aspiration after its people’s stomachs have beed fed. By
this simple expedient you smash at a blow a hundred
and one autocratic and predatory powers held over men
by the wicked and voracious. By establishing a basic
unit of economic qualification, you sell men on the
idea of working for you and get their loving coopera­
tion and eager interest—instead of lashing them to work
for you, watching them do as little as possible for the
55
highest wages they can wrench out of you in turn, and
hold your interests in contempt the minute they have
complied with their enforced bargain. We would not
change your present government as a government. We
would simply make it truly serve you in the purposes
for which you originally set it up. Now, it does only
one-half of what you fondly suppose it should do. If
you cannot make men work for you by attractive in­
terest in their work, or wholesome cajolery, you cer­
tainly have no license to make them work because of
the lash you may hold over them.”
Communism, like our vaunted Capitalism, still holds the
lash over the unwilling worker in the form of hunger-
death. Only, the wielder of the lash has been changed
in each instance.
A race of Nordic freemen wrested the first form of Co­
operative Government from King John at Runny-
mede. It is because Communism of the Asiatic-Stalin
variety is the very antithesis of what it claims to be,
that freemen of other nations detest it. They sense it
is signing away more personal liberties than ever, and
swapping the republican Congress, impotent and in­
capable as it is, for a form of Jewish autocracy kept in
power by a despotic police force or spy system, that
makes it anathema to the average free Christian.
Christian Economy, toward which men are striding with
seven-league boots in America, is a Government by
mutuality where the people themselves are truly sover •
eign by the Corporate Form.
56
ERE we come to the crux of the whole
structure. For make no mistake, the cor­
porate form of the Christian Common­
wealth does not abolish the right of pri­
vate property as under Marxian Socialism.
The Cooperative Government of truly
Christian men is going to hold that qualified citizens
have the right to a basic unit of economic equality, in
that no one in the State can take life away from another
by starvation. But it by no means makes the gigantic
error of assuming that all men are truly born free and
equal or are entitled to equal privileges and posses­
sions merely because each has a head, two arms, and
two feet. Quite the reverse!
Christian Economics dictates that according as men put
forth effort and create, so are they to enjoy the fruits of
their efforts and be rigorously protected in them by the
whole public. But the energy spending and possessing
must be reckoned and handled with a different back­
ground or sense of values. Meaning this:
Suppose there are twenty pospectors in a certain part
of Nevada who all have found and staked out twenty
gold claims. Each claim is valuable and means a com­
petency for each man for life. But no one of them has
the resources to develop his claim alone. Expensive
stamping machinery must be bought and set up, a rail­
road must be brought in to provide workmen and their
families with goods. So those twenty little prospectors
form a corporation, their combined resources doing
what they could not do as individuals. In this way they
secure the necessary equipment and working capital,
each taking a one-twentieth part of the whole as his
share in the enterprise.
Im,
g
57
Is anyone so insane as to argue that because those
twenty have so pooled their interests and gotten done
by cooperation what they could not do singly, they
have all turned socialists and relinquished ownership of
private property? They have relinquished personal
jurisdiction over their particular stakes in each instance
for ownership of one-twentieth in the whole. And they
get accomplished by this cooperation what they could
not get accomplished as a lot of competitors, although
the form of their ownership has altered. It is by no
means less valuable, nor can they be preempted from
their rights in the whole.
IS not State Socialism, therefore, to carry
his same pattern into the one hundred
nd thirty million gold claims that
represent the whole property of the peo­
ple of the United States, and work it prop­
erly for all the citizens, allowing them to
draw their lawful dividends therefrom! <
][ The incom­
ing Christian government, officered by a sovereign peo­
ple that is truly sovereign—by a process to be described
in a moment—will say to all citizens: “Let us make
one colossal corporation of the United States in which
qualified citizens, by right of citizenship, own mini­
mum amounts of stock. To this colossal corporation
belongs actually all the wealth within the public domain.
The citizens hold the shares.
“These shares are never transferable or negotiable any
more than one’s citizenship at the present time is trans­
ferable or negotiable. Every man, woman, and child
born in America, of certain racial qualifications, has an
inviolate right to receive one of these shares at birth,
58
which is surrendered to the Corporation at death. It
cannot be inherited, but there is no need of inheritance
since one s children all derive the same beneficence by
the very act of being born. Nor can the annual dividend
in twelve monthly instalments be negotiated or jeopard­
ized. This dividend shall be paid in the form of credit
issued to the citizens in certain Federal banking districts
set up for the purpose. This credit is not negotiable,
either. But it is good for chequing against for the
purchase of goods precisely as at present. Cheques so
drawn must be cancelled and returned to the issuing
office for payment, exactly like a bank cheque in the
present. At the end of each year, if the government
credit has not been exhausted, it is cancelled, but it
cannot be overdrawn in any one month, more than a
bank account of the present. At the beginning of each
new year there is a new $1,000 credit made available.
“This is to endure whether the citizen works or not,
and has nothing to do with any economic lash. This
credit, however, is only intended for the necessities of
life. If the industrious and ambitious, or the specially
talented, want or command more, they are so graded
in the nation’s books. In other words, they are able to
own additional shares in the Government Corporation
according as merit or services command them.
“Such goods, so procured from the mine of the general
wealth, are inviolate to the one to whom they are issued.
They may be bartered or given away, but they cannot
be generally bought or sold, since the supply must be
gauged in proportion to the citizenry.
“Farmers, miners, and stock-raisers, or those who pro­
cure the national wealth in its raw state from the hand
of the Almighty, shall be among the highest holders of
59
the amount of shares, remunerated in proportion to
what they bring in and deposit in the General Public’s
storehouses. There shall be no Soviet standing in line,
waiting for a bread ticket to be punched, no workhouse
methods, no economic lash. Inspiration, to be large
among the public producers, shall be kindled as a matter
of patriotic honor and generous compensation. A man
shall be graded in the esteem of his fellows according
to his talents or the scope of his activities in laboring for
the Corporation, exactly as the share-holding, dividend­
paying corporations of the present administration, try to
treat with their better class of employees and create an
esprit de corps.
“If a man wants to be an artist instead of a worker, he
is provided for, to do it. But he must work for the love
of his art, the product itself, not for the prostitution of
selling his product at a big price and being acclaimed
for his wealth instead of for his talent.
“If a man wishes to become an inventor, he not only has
his living expenses financed while doing so, but he is
assured of a high honor and a sure market if his inven­
tion is to the enhancement of the whole public. True,
he cannot become an extortionate plutocrat from his
royalties by becoming the partner of a voracious manu­
facturer monopolizing that article as at present, but he
can be publicly remunerated with greater holdings in
the Corporation, entitling him to a higher and finer
status of living if he is thus of profit to the whole people.
t[ “Under Christian Economics, individual intiative to
labor and achieve is enhanced, whereas under Com­
munism and Socialism individual initiative to labor and
achieve was stunted and discouraged.”
60
|HE effect of all this would be, of course, to
nullify money as we of the present archaic
system consider money. But every econo­
mist is aware that banking from its very
beginning has tended to nullify money.
People have gone so far in this direction
even today that it is the sudden inability to return to a
specie currency system which they have practically dis­
carded that has caused what is today known as a Panic.
Money as currency today for big business is clumsy
and impractical, and only insisted upon by voracious
money merchants because it gives them—by a form of
professional hoarding—the means of controlling and
exploiting the citizenry and holding an official lash over
the population to make it do the banker’s pleasure.
Cash money at the best only represents wealth which
is in existence somewhere as goods which sustain or
beautify life. If taken of itself, a mass of gold dollars
melted up will not make even a good, serviceable knife.
•J Christian Economics means the simple opening of
one account with every citizen in the nations who quali­
fies. If it be argued that such would be an unwieldy,
expensive process, let it be called to the critics’ atten­
tion that Uncle Sam has all the machinery and all the
employees doing the very same thing at the present
moment, in order to collect taxes by more extortionate
methods—another form of the lash—if they are not
contributed, t?
Such a colossal corporate banking system would be im­
mensely simplified over our present banking system,
however, because it would consist of a definite credit
issued once a month to all the citizens in each district.
As cheques came back, they would be deducted from
61
the monthly balances. There the business of accounting
would begin and end. There would be no discounting
of paper, no figuring of interest. There would be no
more interest in existence, with all its woes of usury and
foreclosure. Each citizen could go to the Issuing Head­
quarters in each Federal District, prove his citizenship,
and have his cheque book issued to him. There would
be “money” for all purposes at the great federal depart­
ment stores; no red tape and no nonsense about it. If
he is not entitled to enough under his grading to acquire
an automobile, that is just too bad. Let him aspire to
become more thrifty or talented. If he over-expends
his monthly credit, let him depend on the charity of his
relatives to carry him through to the coming month. But
it shall be illegal for anyone to sell him goods against his
credit. it* t?
If the foreigner wishes to come to the United States and
enjoy this Christian Government, let him naturalize him­
self and take the oath to obey the laws under which such
benefits accrue to him. It will do him no good to bring
foreign currency with him, for his gold will purchase
nothing! i *
NDER this Christian government, the sov­
ereign Corporation itself must, as a great
nation, do all foreign trading, make pur­
chases abroad, and carry on all manufac­
turing, buying, and selling, and working
up into goods. This will be the true func­
tion of the Department of Commerce of the future, in­
stead of being a glorified and expensive card system or
an army of political appointees continually intruding on
private concerns and personal affairs.
62
But the greatest item of all has not yet been considered:
how to keep such machinery free from the exploiter,
the grafter, and the political spoilsman. America had
a costly experience with the railroads during the War
and by no means wants another. The careless inefficiency
of governmental employees and the red tape and waste
of a lavish bureaucracy are too well known to hold en­
ticements for sound-headed men and women.
Let us consider bureaucracy for a moment as we now
find it. Why is it inefficient and slovenly? First, because
it is ruinously underpaid in comparison with the extraor­
dinary offerings in private business. But with the Unit­
ed States Corporation conducting economic affairs and
owning the public wealth after the pattern of the twenty
gold miners, there are none of these spoils attractions
to begin with. All are on the same footing economical­
ly. If the public servant wishes to be slothful, there is
only the minimum one-share unit available as to divi­
dends for him at the Bank. He is graded accordingly,
whether he works in the Department of Commerce or on
a farm in Kansas, or in an office of Public Surgeons in
Chicago. i**
In other words, he has the continual enticement to im­
prove himself, with none of the hateful whippings from
the lash of his gnawing stomach to force him to make
some sort of a display of labor. He is free to get out and
lie on the seashore if he chooses, and not work at all.
But he would soon find himself in odium with the keen,
energetic, resourceful element in the population who
are finding a wholesome satisfaction in cleverly and ef­
ficiently performing before their fellows. Human na­
ture is like that. Real people work for the keen zest of
doing, creating, visualizing, and materializing. The
63
drones and vagabonds would be quite the pariahs they
are under the present administration and will be con­
sidered later. As to the objection to the Federal Cor­
poration’s supporting them in idleness, let it be recalled
that that is exactly what the energetic among the public
are doing today, anyhow. Only it is called alms, or­
ganized charity, and the penal system.
HE true check on official slovenliness and
inefficiency that are the bane of present
public ownership of institutions, would
come from the same method that hence­
forth under Christian Economics is to
“snap-up” elected officials and bring ren­
ovation in political government.
That is a process very like a public round robin or popu­
lar veto, in the case of political officialdom, and it would
operate likewise on pernicious, selfish or foolish legis­
lation. t ? i ?
We are convinced that presently a sovereign people,
tired of public venality and lechery in legislative assem­
blies, are to take their full sovereignty into their hands
by something very like a constitutional amendment,
making every sort of public legislation of no standing
in law until it has had direct public approval.
The vetoing power of a president or a governor is not
enough, since the American people have seen from the
past two political administrations how even the highest
offices may be debauched or controlled by a greedy and
conscienceless money power.
It is to be the practice ultimately for a Federal official
to be recognized in each State or district to which laws
apply, with whom the public can file formal protests at
64
any time, without the slightest red tape, making null and
void any piece of legislation of which a majority of the
citizens do not approve.
Let legislation originate with the people’s elected repre­
sentatives. Let irresponsibles introduce all the fool laws
or privileged class measures they desire. The public
shall have the right of going to the officers so appointed
in any given district, and applying for a Legislative Pro­
test Form. The voter need simply write on such form, “I
do not approve of such and such legislation,” naming
the specific act of which he disapproves but not neces­
sarily giving his reasons therefor. Signing his name
and official number as registered with the Bank which
issues him his monthly Stock Dividend, he shall turn it
in to such official. If a majority of the people in any
given district (for district legislation) or of the national
citizenry as a whole (for federal legislation) register
a negative vote, it must be so published in a Federal
Register after a simple clerical tabulation, and there­
upon such legislation is no legislation whatever and it
shall be no misdemeanor on the part of the public to
disregard it.
If it be argued that such a system would be ruinously ex­
pensive in the size of the personnel entailed, remember
that the Government Corporation is providing Com­
mon Stock dividends for all those persons anyhow. And
no office can be made more honorable or desirable in the
whole Body Politic, or carry more enticing remunera­
tion than that of a keeper of the public probity. We
must not be constantly comparing the methods of this
Christian Commonwealth with the slave-driving, profit-
extorting methods of present economic administration.
By the same method it will be nossible to dethrone
65
any public official from office within twenty-four hours
for laxity or dishonesty or inefficiency in himself, his
workers, or the general deportment of his offices.
' legislators and public servants kept in
mind at all times that nothing they did in
secret cahoots with privileged persons
that materialized in the form of legislation,
was of the slightest value or could be­
come arbitrary law, in case the public did
not fully approve, they would be more careful to pro­
pose only such legislation, or do those acts, which would
not be thus vetoed.
Under this system of private recall and immediate veto,
cliques, factions, fanatics and mischief workers could
not unduly influence legislation either for or against
their pet projects, because in every case a majority ex­
pression of the citizenry would be necessary to ratify
such legislation.
Half the lobbying that is done at the present time is in
the interests of private profit for private concerns, any­
how.
There is no reason under heaven why such an official
veto power could not be exercised on public servants
tomorrow, if the people would only realize their own
sovereignty to do it!
Political racketeers, organizations like Tammany, con­
niving banking houses like Morgan and Kuhn-Loeb,
could be emasculated overnight from further influence
in the public’s affairs, if the people so expressed them­
selves. Expensive voting systems and balloting ma­
chinery need not be set up. Every citizen could keep
the proper blanks in his own home. The simple filling out
66
and mailing, under a costless government frank, is all
that would be necessary, the validity of the signature
and ballot being supplied by the identification of that
citizen on file with the Federal Bank where he draws
his monthly dividends. Thugs could not intimidate vot­
ers at the polls because there need be no polls. The
only chance for chicanery would be in the counting of
such votes. That would be obviated by printing in col­
umns of nonpareil type in a “Federal Register” for each
district the protester’s name and how he voted. Every
citizen could be his own tally clerk if he so desired.
National elections will even be conducted in this man­
ner: the mailing in of the proper ballots, the checking
with each citizen’s number to see that the vote is not
fraudulent, and when the names and numbers are veri­
fied, publishing the poll list in a government gazette.
The concern at thus having their votes publicized at
present is a commentary on a pernicious economic ad­
ministration where men dare not have their honest opin­
ions made public, fearing reprisals from those to whom
they are in some form of economic serfdom. Loss of
jobs or trade, or other economic reprisals, now work this
form of duress that compels the secret ballot. Under the
Christian Commonwealth, men will not be so fearful
of announcing publicly their honest opinions in regard
to public measures.
Remember that secrecy always cloaks unwholesomeness
in some form or other and unwholesomeness means that
somewhere there is chicanery.
Some alert reader might ask, “But why can’t cliques of
individuals issue propaganda to have the citizens protest
or vote to effect that which will unrightfully enhance the
special privilege of those issuing the propaganda, just as
67
demagogues exercise their control over the masses at
present? Under the Christian Commonwealth would
not such cliques gradually gain the very same power
which threatens our public institutions today?”
The point is, that in the Christian Commonwealth there
would not be any advantage to anyone in such propa­
ganda. Propaganda requires immense funds of private
wealth in a form that will become archaic in Christian
economics. Neither could they gain any profit from
such propaganda, such profit as constituted today mere­
ly being the added power to hold their position in exer­
cising economic control over society—an economic con­
trol which in the Christian Commonwealth is as absurd
as it is impossible. Lastly, even supposing that they did
use such propaganda and were able to wield a subversive
influence of a sort, they would have no chance to exer­
cise it, among people who do not depend upon them for
their livelihood. With no private or selfish interests to
defend, our much touted “free press” will become a
living reality!
As for gangsters and racketeers, intimidators by profes­
sion in the employ of mischievous interests, these will
wholly disappear under Christian economics, because
there can be no gain accruing to them for so exercising
their malevolent talents.
If citizens are trading with the Government for their
goods by the aforesaid bank cheque system, the rack­
eteer can exact no extortions, since there is no cash
money to reward his lawlessness. If the wealth of the
citizen is represented by the credit which he may have
with the government bank, and such wealth is not nego­
tiable as credit, there would be no profit in kidnapping
or “snatching” men of high talent or earning power.
68
The crime wave under Christian economics would auto­
matically cease to exist because there could not possibly
be any gain in crime. And it could thus be erased with­
out the slightest spilling of blood or taking of violent
reprisals. ip ip
NDERSTAND that what you are reading
here is not any description of Utopia,
“thought out” in any one man’s brain. It
is no clever socialistic or communistic sys­
tem brought forward for consideration of
the citizenry. It is a brief summary of
what is going to happen, deduced from unmistakable
trends and the metamorphosis of an archaic order that
has already begun to fall apart.
It is childish to say that “this won’t work” or “that won’t
work,” merely because the critic does not see the system
in all its daily detail. Again, we say, this is no Utopian
theory propounded to suggest the ideal State.
The happiest reaction which anyone can give to that
which has been outlined here, is not to sit back and rail
at the loss of rights and privileges which do not now
exist—except theoretically—but to busy oneself and
learn all the facile practicalities of this Government
by Mutuality which is being ushered in at the present
moment by events occurring all over the nation—if the
purblind critic could only know it.
It has been merely to give some hint of the general
scheme that this outline is presented here.
True Christianity takes initiative away from no one. It
augments and inspires it.
The Christ Himself would not mean for people to work
in a slave-state, or for all persons to be trimmed down
69
to any level of mediocrity. He knows that both self-ex­
pression and individuality are the very crux of the earth
experience, and would encourage them.
But the Great Galilean would have small use for money,
money strategies, or for usury. He expressed Himself
against all three during His earthly ministry and He
must be equally vociferous against them today. The
human race must be gently shown that it can exist with­
out them and get along excellently.
There is no problem or inquiry about the adequacy, fair­
ness, or equality of Christian economics that cannot
be answered. It needs no headachy thinking to “dig up
answers” to criticisms. It is only necessary to correctly
interpret present trends and “see” by mental vision how
people will have solved this and that, twenty, fifty, a
hundred years from today.
F course, a rapacious money-bund, largely
composed of a megalomaniacal Jewish
faction that through all the ages has en­
riched itself by living off the labors of ex­
plorers, husbandmen, and manufacturers,
can be expected to turn the full blisterings
of a controlled press on the introduction of such relief.
It means their great “cooping” predicted in Holy Writ
and Pyramid prophecy! If there is naught for them to
dominate by the powers of hoarded money, if they can­
not acquire the properties of others because such prop­
erties are not transferable as basic wealth, Judah is
placed on an equal basis with every other nationality in
the body politic.
Judah will fight to the death this wrenching away of her
despotism, but it will avail her nothing. And under
70
the new system, Jews born in America or naturalized
here, will be as safely secured economically as members
of any other race. Then they will be required to win to
affluence solely by their powers of competitive talent.
Only a preponderance of Hebrews throughout the
entire federal domain, could gain for Judah the social
advantages which heretofore have been so easily exacted
through financial monopoly.
Along with the death-fight of the Jewish money-bund
will come the savage and obstructive protests of the pos­
sessors of great fortunes. The generations of possessive­
ness in which their very sinew is steeped, will make them
adamant against turning over their so-called private
properties to any Great Corporation of the United
States.
It will avail them nothing and in the end mean their sal­
vation, for now they are being beggared in droves by a
manipulated stock market, closed or crippled banks, and
a voracious tax collector striving to pick the citizenry
of its last remaining dollars to make up the deficit in a
government budget that is now running behind at the
rate of $6,250 a minute—nine millions a day since
March, 1933!
71
ET us not disparage something that greater
Brains than all of us in America taken to­
gether, have evidently planned for the
Fifth Root Race in the United States. Be
humble and learn as many of the details
of this new Christian Commonwealth as
are available in the short time that remains before the
new administration is set up.
Hunger is going to become a thing of the past under
this new arrangement; barbarous competition, which
has been nothing but man’s “right” to exploit his broth­
er, is going to be turned into the wholesome channel of
discovering who can perform the most for the common
weal and welfare, and be suitably rewarded with stock
dividends and public adulation.
Great captains of industry will still be great captains of
industry. Abraham Lincolns will still be born of “poor”
parents in America’s backwoods, and rise to sublime
heights in the esteem of their countrymen. America is
not to be turned into a workhouse where every person is
whittled down to the status of every other person, or
where a Stalin can dictate to us at what time to turn
out our lamps at night. By the massive power of the
easy and facile veto the Stalins will be laughed out of
the body politic, and the A1 Capones be left without
jobs. ±jr Jfcjr
As for methods of administration of Law and Equity
under Christian economics, the carrying on of wars
when necessary, the financing of new projects, the bear­
ing and raising of children, the new status of Woman­
hood Ennobled, the question of traffic and transporta­
tion, the care of the indigent and criminal element—all
these, as we have declared, are anticipated in advance.
72
It is a splendorful picture that unrolls before us, divine
in its compassion, rich in its possibilities for cultivating
friendships and living life from hour to hour as freemen
before God, quasi-divine beings, should live it. The
only unpleasantness connected with it lies in the tech­
nicality of its installation.
Mammon will not relinquish without a bitter fight, even
when those who do such fighting are battling against
their own best interests and the interests of their chil­
dren. j%r tj*
Let us apply ourselves to a comprehensive study of this
truly Christian Government for which the world has
been waiting, and keep in mind that the twenty miners
on the desert would have been no better off than we are
at present if they had not seen in a mutuality of inter­
ests, and a common trust in one another, a method of
making themselves rich beyond dreams of avarice.
So we today stand on the threshold of a magnificent co­
operation, while the Prince of Peace smiles quietly that
anyone among us were so foolish as to think that He
meant to give us any type of earthly government that
could not command the loyal and enthusiastic devotion
of the humblest of its citizens!
We have only scratched the surface of real Christian
economics, however. Suppose we consider just what
evils we are abating or abolishing by actually installing
the Christian Commonwealth.
73
VII: How to End Poverty and Crime
F the foregoing glance into a
splendorful future be a true
one, it would stand to reason
that the problems and ills which
are now so troublesome—and
seemingly impossible of solu­
tion in human affairs—would
be completely ironed out under
it and no longer of moment.
Certainly if this Christian
Commonwealth has a sacred
basis of inspiration at all, it should be as well-nigh per­
fect in its functioning as is possible to have anything in
human life, human nature being what it is. If the slight­
est flaw in the principle can be detected, however, then
the Enlightened have either seen that phase of its work­
ings incorrectly or the whole Plan is a hoax. The un­
canny fact remains, however, that the Christian Com­
monwealth plan looms as the sole faultless and practical
solution of the nation’s economic and social ills, ready
for immediate application when the present spoils sys­
tem shall have crashed; and this without upsetting ex­
isting institutions, without violence, without confisca­
tions, and without reprisals against any racial groups.
<J Let us, therefore, consider the human quandaries of
the hour in the light of what their ultimate denouement
is to be under the administration of truly Christian peo­
ple.
74
In the first place, the grand scheme of human govern­
ment proposed, solicits the attention and approval of
mankind on the following tenet: that every man is en­
titled to the protection of the law in preserving his life
and carrying on his affairs, devoid of duress or physical
force making him to do that which he would not do if
the element of slave-lashing were not present.
Let it be set down at once that the Christian Common­
wealth cannot, by the very essence of its origin, be a gov­
ernment by any sort of physical or moral duress. It is
unthinkable that the Christ would coerce men into being
good, or orderly, or law-supporting, or physically or
mentally moral. When you serve under the Christian
Banner you serve voluntarily, because you see that it is
good for you and beneficial for your brethren. It
is a cheerful service which you render and your homage
is one of enthusiastic co-operation, or the Common­
wealth does not want your support at all.
Now the man-made governments of the present world
are the direct opposite of this principle. They say to
men: Be good and orderly or go to jail. Be talented or
industrious, or receive so many stripes from the eco­
nomic lash. It is a system of hateful reprisals, which is
why so many millions of people resent what govern­
ments have come to mean to them. It bestirs hatred
and retaliation in them. If you do not do as the Law
prescribes, you shall suffer therefor some variety of
physical or mental agony. You are to be taken out and
have your personal integrity and free-will outraged.
And then men wonder why it is that more citizens are
not peaceful, orderly, and well-intentioned toward their
brethren. They fail to see that the present water tank
system itself is the supreme instructor in reprisals, ha­
75
treds, antagonisms, and “brevets of dishonor,” for the
all-powerful State sets up standards and refinements of
cruelty to get its fiats manufactured as well as obeyed.
All this is anathema to truly enlightened Christians.
They say: “Be good because it is more beneficial to you
as a citizen than being bad. Be peaceable because the
lack of peace, manufactured by the State or by the citi­
zen, deprives you of life, property, or personal freedom.
Be circumspect and honest in your dealings among your­
selves and with others, because these are great cosmic
principles for the ending of confusions. If you will not
observe these tenets you will find yourselves back in
your conditions of barbarism which you now resent and
want to escape. There is but one Law and that is the
law of Probity. You do not have to follow it if you do
not wish to do so, but those who are following it, ob­
serve that they are strangely profited in goods and facile
manners that make for the profit of the person and his
estate.”
0 THE Christian Commonwealth does not
coerce, and cannot be made to coerce, in
any form, shape, manner, or description.
Remember, we are speaking now of the
fundamentals on which the Better Gov­
ernment is founded and upon which the
new system of economics is built. We are not speaking
of methods of safeguarding life and property against
those who will not abide by orderly processes of adminis­
tration nor recognize the fundamental precepts behind
Law and Order. We solemnly maintain that the State has
a solemn duty in declaring outlaws, those among its citi­
zenry who will not recognize the true tenets of peace
76
and voluntary submission on which the State is project­
ed. And while for the moment this may seem para­
doxical, a little real thinking will show that it is the finest
form of consistent behavior, since it says in effect to the
miscreant: we recognize you are a malevolent influence
among freemen, in that you are an ignoramus and can­
not perceive what is best for your own good in the long
run of daily conduct. So we invite you not to be one of
us. We are enjoying these principles of Enlightened
Administration because we have seen the light. You,
too, have had the light shown you but have chosen the
wayward path against the enlightenments of your fel­
lows. So we do not lash you, neither do we take re­
prisals against you. We simply outlaw your stubborn­
ness and wilfulness, setting up a system making it im­
possible for you to act within our midst in any other
manner than with voluntary circumspection and regard
for the rest of us.
This is not coercion. It is setting up a set of standards
by which men must abide in order to be peaceful and
prosperous. Those who will not subscribe to them are
merely short-suiting and injuring themselves, since by
their conduct they refuse to enjoy the benefits accruing.
It is positive lawmaking, not negative projecting of
prohibitions with pain-creating penalties for violation.
77
B>SBSa
HE Christian Commonwealth, let it be
summarized, is one of enticement and
mutuality as against violence and im­
becility. It proposes such laws and con­
ditions as make it obligatory in the interest
of self-profit to abide by those laws and
conditions, the same as at present it is too often in the
interest of self-profit to flout and violate present laws
and conditions.
If there be those who say that no such organization of
social authorizing can perform or create such a structure,
they are speaking out of the darkness of their own hide­
bound ignorance. Nor is the fact that it has never been
done in modern history any criterion that it cannot be
done. The modern race never had an administration of
the truly Moral Law till Jesus appeared in Galilee. Be­
fore His time, millions might have said that human na­
ture being what it is. no official pronouncements could
restrain men from practicing “spiritual whoredoms.”
But Christ came and spake, and changed the spiritual
aspects of whole States. So it is with His influence in
the practical administration of earth’s political, economic
and social affairs. To say that men cannot grasp and
achieve such a State, and that its details are unworkable
because of human nature’s basic wickedness, is to say
that a holy church cannot be set up in an evil world,
and that Christianity cannot work in the individual con­
science because there are men who violate its principles.
78
HE foundation of the theocratic state, as
previously set forth, declares that no mat­
ter what a man’s economic position may
be, whether he is temperamentally a
worker or a drone, whether he is educated
or uneducated, he shall receive bread to
eat as freely as he now receives air to breathe or water
for his thirst—again with the racial qualifications yet to
be discussed. In other words, the Christian Common­
wealth is not based upon the hunger motive. It believes
that it is the duty of the whole people to see that citizens
are protected from death by starvation, just as surely
as from death by the thug’s blackjack.
In other words, hunger should be eliminated henceforth
as the basis of the economic system. A State which
says, “If you will not work, you shall not eat,” is a relic
of barbarism, so long as the citizen can retort: “Very
well, give me work and I will cheerfully labor, for I
am hungry. But so long as you do not provide me
with work, you are committing me to a system of ex­
termination.” 3%t t% t
Christian economics does not say that men shall cease
laboring, or turn drones under a paternity government.
It says that men shall be free to labor and improve their
economic condition without restrictions on jobs that
provide the bread. But it goes further and says: “A
sovereign people shall feed its citizens first, that they
might be able to work. Thereby are they better work­
men, clearer thinkers, more stable citizens. Having fed
them a minimum to sustain life in a reasonable amount
of comfort, it shall then hold out prospects of gain to
entice them into higher and finer expressions of char­
acter and labor.”
79
HE old-fashioned Socialism said: “Let us
take all the wealth and divide it equally
among the hand laborers only, so that each
may rise uniformly regardless of his
talents or his merit, simply because he is
born and lives.” The modern Communist,
under a Jewish sponsorship in Russia today, says:
“There shall be no private property; all wealth shall
belong to the people; all shall be forced to labor whether
they will or not, or starve, exactly as under the most
voracious capitalism.”
A Christian government says: “The integrity of the
individual must be preserved from the instant that he
draws his first breath until the moment that he draws
his last. That means it is the State’s business to see that
he does not die by hunger, any more than by lack of
pure air, or by lack of water for his parched throat, or
by the assassin’s bullet. Having established an order
in which this is possible without beggaring anyone, that
individual shall be enticed into personal achievement by
having his willingness to work satisfied to the limit of
his resources, health, and ingenuity. He shall be allowed
to acquire and retain all the personal property he is
capable of earning and utilizing. He shall have full op­
portunity to show his mental or spiritual superiority
over other men without exploiting them in the slightest
because of their handicaps. And most important of all,
he shall not have any coercive force above him in the
form of a dictatorial group that styles itself a govern­
ment merely because it has the force to preserve itself
in power. The solid bloc of citizenry, enabled to express
its will without red tape, bureaucracy or self-seeking
officialdom, shall be the government—a true republic
80
really drawing its power from the consent of the
governed, not a nominal republic so called because once
every two or four years the citizenry says who shall be
the dictators to issue the arbitrary fiats.”
No, this type of government has never been tried, but
for that matter, neither has Christianity ever been tried.
Now comes God Almighty, letting the un-Christ-like
system reach a deadlock and stalemate, to show men
how imbecile and unworkable their barbarous water tank
ideas of economics are. There is no alternative that will
work but the Commonwealth idea. And humankind
must find it out by grasping that there is no alternative
to the deadlock and stalemate but the embracing of the
new Christian State.
Mankind is to learn that States may be set up and cul­
tures established on some other principle than the hun­
ger duress. No one in modern times has thought it pos­
sible, because no matter what form the rulership took,
the economic principle was one of food or land monopo­
ly by groups on the water tank principle.
Because this has made a race of vengeful people, who
immediately soldiered when their basic hungers were
satisfied, it has always been assumed that the masses
will act as the Roman masses acted when the Caesars
gave them bread outright, or as certain classes in Eng­
land and America now act when given the Dole.
It was not, and is not, the free bread or the dole that
made or makes for dronery, but because along with the
satisfaction of mass hunger there has been no entice­
ment to grasp higher and obtain more, socially or
ethically or artistically, than the food for the belly.
If mass humankind did not have higher urges than
merely the full belly, all human achievement would long
81
since have stopped, the moment each belly was filled.
Observation shows that this is not the case. The re­
ceiver of the Dole knows that he is receiving a form of
government charity and takes it because there is no
alternative. If the government assured him of work
the year around at a higher gain than his miserable dole,
the receiver of it would forgo it within the hour. As for
the Roman masses, the Caesars merely fed them and
then gave them no further incentive to better them­
selves than a bloody and barbaric circus. They could
not have done more without setting up the theocratic
State ahead of time.
This is not the place to defend the theocratic State, for
it needs no defense. Whether or not one likes the idea
of what is ahead, makes not the slightest difference to
Cosmos. What IS to be, IS to be. A time is only too
obviously ahead, when men can construct and conduct
their governmental, economic and social institutions on
the voluntary basis, or the free volition of its citizens,
after their stomachs have been fed and the spectre of
death by hunger removed. The same incentive for self-
improvement, social adulation, economic enhancement
—in other words, the same integrity of the individual—
shall prevail under the Commonwealth as at present,
but devoid of the risk of exploitation of groups by
groups, and each with a far different measure of per­
sonal liability and freedom.
Let us see exactly what this means.
82
NDER the Comonwealth that is coming in
over the debris of an utterly bankrupt and
unworkable water tank system, the nation
called the United States shall be more than
a voluntary federation of forty-eight petty
little political commonwealths, each with
its separate kingly bureaucracy. This move for centrali­
zation has been going steadily forward ever since the
Civil War. It is now about to climax in a complete
federation on the corporate pattern. The political
machinery is to remain exactly the same as at present,
for localized jurisdiction, but to serve a higher and better
purpose.
We are told that the sovereign people are to set them­
selves up a corporate instead of a political State, organ­
ized on the present share basis of corporations. But with
this difference: Its shares are not negotiable. They can­
not be bought and sold. They remain the inviolate per­
sonal property of the native-born citizen from the cradle
to the grave, and become as inviolate to the naturalized
citizen.
All the privately-owned wealth now existent in the
United States is to be transferred to the Corporation,
precisely as twenty prospectors who have staked out
twenty gold claims in the desert, club together and form
a million-dollar corporation to work their claims, each
taking a one-twentieth interest in the consolidated con­
cern or common stock securities to the extent of $50,000
that is his own inviolate private property thereafter.
The Great Corporation of the United States is not to be
capitalized at any definite figure. That is to say, its
stocks are to have no par value. But they will be divided
into two classes: Common and Preferred.
83
There will be one share of Common Stock, carrying
voting power, issued to each native-born citizen of
proper racial qualifications at birth as the heritage of his
citizenship. He can no more trade it, refuse it, or
transfer it or its dividends to another than he can trade,
refuse, or transfer his citizenship.
This Common Stock shall carry a minimum dividend
sufficiently large to permit an adult person of normal
habits to keep himself in the ordinary requisites of life
from year’s end to year’s end. Let us say for hypo­
thetical purposes that this figure is set by the nation’s
economists at $1,000, or $83.00 per month.
This share, like his citizenship, becomes his property at
birth and is cancelled at his death.
As to dividends, remember that the stock, at his
majority, pays this sum. During the first seven years
of life, it is one-fourth of this sum, or $250.00 annually,
or $20.00 monthly. During the second seven years,
between seven and fourteen, it is $500.00 annually, or
$40.00 monthly—omitting the odd cents in this calcula­
tion for purposes of brevity. During the third seven
years, or in the college period of life, it is $750.00 an­
nually, or $60.00 monthly. This money, of course, is
paid to the child’s parents, on the condition that the child
is kept in school during the payment of such benefits.
If the child is not kept in school, the benefits are sus­
pended. ± p
Understand, that women as well as men, married or
unmarried, are likewise to hold one of the Common
Shares each, thus assuring a minimum of economic in­
dependence for wives, over which the husband has no
control, although both are held liable under the criminal
law for the trusteeship of the child or children. No
84
matter how many children any family may comprise, the
apportionment is inviolate to each individual.
These basic income benefits also accrue to naturalized
citizens, it* it*
Keep in mind that this share of stock is also as inviolate
to the citizen as his citizenship, and has nothing to do
with his racial extraction—-except as hereinafter provid­
ed—his creed, or his occupation. Grades of occupations
and self-advancement under the Commonwealth are to
be provided for under the Preferred Stock arrangement,
to be described presently.
The unit of corporate management for what is subse­
quently to be revealed, apparently is to be the Congres­
sional district as at present constituted. In this Con­
gressional district is to be located the Corporation’s ad­
ministration offices, which in appearance, construction,
and functioning, will not be unlike our modern banking
institutions, it* it*
In the office of such Sectional Administration the citi­
zen’s share of Common Stock is to be kept. No citizen
can take his certificate out, carry it about, lose it, or
otherwise jeopardize it, but it may be transferred as the
citizen elects to move about the nation and settle where
he pleases. The functioning of this procedure is to be
precisely like similar re-allocations made at the federal
offices of the Internal Revenue Collector for the pay­
ment of the present Water Tank income tax.
85
NDER the new arrangement, the citizen’s
birth certificate is to be his most cherished
possession, since it validates his claim to
share in the new Christian Government.
Illegitimate children will remain under the
same onus as at present, but their illegiti­
macy will in nowise affect their corporate rights under
their citizenship.
The proper proving of the identity at the Federal Build­
ing, will result in a credit’s being placed upon the Com­
monwealth’s books for the minimum Life Dividend of
$83.00 monthly. Revolutionary as it may appear to
warped or biased citizens under the old water tank
regime, once every year, without any other labor being
advanced than the mere fact of being born, the qualified
citizen has a government credit for the proper amount
according to his years, placed on the nation’s books.
This means that the sovereign people keep just one ac­
count with every accredited citizen in the United States
—a straight, open-and-shut, credit and debit account.
The machinery for this is already in existence, as Uncle
Sam does the same thing for the collection of taxes.
Also at the present time there are literally thousands of
such national bureaus all doing tjhe same, in State,
County, and Municipal administrations—besides expen­
sive staffs to figure interest, negotiate all kinds of credit
paper, and otherwise conduct the present water tank
system, t? t?
Instead of this Account-with-Every-Citizen staff being
cumbersome and expensive, it would be pared down to
one-twentieth of what it is at present as we shall see in
later treatment.
86
OW bear in mind that all manufacturing in
the United States goes on exactly as at
present, except that all workers are em­
ployed by voluntary service under a veto
system of the citizen concerned for in­
competence. As for graft, that is to be
made automatically impossible, as will be shown in a
moment. Another and more important exception is,
however, that instead of expensive sales forces and
tremendous advertising budgets to force surplus
products on a citzenry that has no money to buy or that
is gullible, weak-willed, or affluent, all manufactured
products, the same as the products of all farms, mines,
and stock lands, will go automatically to the govern­
ment’s great centers of distribution.
The Great Corporation will automatically receive all
produced goods made in the United States and put them
out through its beautiful mammoth department stores,
where everything can be procured on the selection
system from counter displays exactly as at present.
Only there will be far fewer of these than at present
under the water tank system, because so many tiny
shops, or even big emporiums, will not be necessary,
and the land and buildings, to say nothing of congested
shopping sections, can be turned into public concourses
of beauty and convenience. It means the end of the
bombastic and disfiguring advertising sign, since there
will no longer be frantic shrieking appeals to catch the
public penny. High-pressure advertising is doomed by
its very economic falsity.
87
these huge public emporiums, the citizen
will trade and be able to buy everything
from a safety pin to a steam roller—if his
estate requires a steam roller and he is of
the ennobled qualification to receive one.
€
][But here is the crux of the whole theo­
cratic State: money as currency is to gradually dis­
appear as the system becomes refined.
Once each year, when the government credit is allotted,
the citizen receives his cheque book with his photograph
on the cover for true identification purposes, together
with his signature for comparison with the name he
writes on each cheque when purchasing goods of his
selection. The booklet of blank cheques is thus not
transferable or negotiable. No public clerk is permitted
to sell goods to or receive a cheque in payment from any
person but the one whose picture is on the cover of his
cheque book.
The public emporiums sort all of the cheques at the end
of the business day, exactly as banks do today, and dis­
patch them through a Federal Clearing House for debit­
ing at the Branch Bank where the citizen has his Stock
Shares on file. There the sum of the cheque is written
off against his credit and the cheque cancelled and there­
after is worthless.
It would do no citizen any good to try to counterfeit
cheques, granted he could fabricate the necessary plates.
The moment he overdrew a given bank balance, the
cheques would go back to the store accepting them and
the citizen would find himself in exactly the same hot
water that attends on such swindling today.
At the head of the citizen’s credit account at the Federal
Bank is the amount issued to him for the year accord­
88
ing to his Stock Dividend qualifications. He could not
impoverish himself by spending all his cheques in one
month, because only $83.00 is good for that month on
the common stock, and the cheques are so dated. If he
should spend all his monthly cheques in one lump, he is
simply out of luck and must live on the charity of rela­
tives until his next month’s cheques become good.
Thus millions of dollars’ worth of buying would go on
without a single negotiable dollar’s being seen or
touched. Personal theft would absolutely disappear,
since none of the cheques are good for anyone but the
person by whom they are rightfully indorsed.
There could be no incentive for hoarding by pernicious
groups because the government credit is inexhaustible
so long as people continue to turn the wheels of industry
and Mother Earth continues to yield her increase.
Predatory bankers would cease to exist. There would
be little private buying or selling, for it would all be
unnecessary. So there would be no occasion for loans,
interest, discounts or catch-penny schemes to lure the
idle dollar. The nation’s swindlers will have to go out
of business automatically and beget themselves into
gainful occupations, of which there will be many more
than at present according to allocations of labor yet to
be described.
Crimes against the person could not flourish because the
citizen would not have anything on his person to snatch
of greater value than his jewelry. He would discard
his wallet in favor of his cheque book with his picture
on the cover—which would avail the thief absolutely
nothing. Kidnapping and other forms of extortion and
racketeering would perish overnight, because the citizen
would possess no hoard of wealth to tap for his ransom.
89
The private tradesman could not be intimidated by the
racketeer because the private tradesman is a part of the
Commonwealth personnel and the government itself
would have no means of giving the racketeer his cut.
The liquor question could be solved in all its hateful
ramifications by limiting the amounts of liquors and
wines which the individual citizen can acquire from the
grocery department of the public department stores for
any given district.
The method by which the Sovereign People finance all
this, and how citizens of higher social standing and merit
have more than the basic hunger unit of $83.00 to spend
in any given month, must be left to subsequent chapters.
But it is fully provided for, and much more economically
sound than our present wasteful competitive system
which we fancy is the only method of encouraging initi­
ative, thrift and industry.
We are concerned here with the remedial effects on the
ethics and prosperity of the citizens themselves.
ONSIDER the vast social machinery that
can be scrapped under such a Christian ad­
ministration. First and foremost, all
poorhouses, workhouses and almshouses
would vanish, because all occupants of
such would have their basic Common
Stock Dividends and could graduate out of the pauper
class. Only the insane, the confirmed criminal element,
the aliens and the racially lethargic would then be
charges on society without citizens’ privileges, since
convicted criminals under the new system will lose their
citizenship exactly as felonies against the federal gov­
ernment carry such penalties today.
90
With farmers, miners, stockbreeders and fishermen—
those who take the products from Mother Earth or the
hand of the Almighty—being among the highest re­
munerated classes, instead of the poorest as at present,
the new order means an exodus of large numbers back
to the soil in order to avail themselves of such higher
compensations. This means the sudden easing of con­
gestion in our cities and the more even distribution of
the population over the land. It also means that great
public department stores would arise in the rural dis­
tricts to service such populations, with the resultant
gains in the health and morale of the citizenry.
With Christian economics inaugurated, it means the
abolition of the War Veterans’ problem, since war
veterans would be automatically benefited by their
Common Stock dividends like all other individuals.
Furthermore, it is a strict provision of the Christian
Commonwealth that in the event of certain young-men
citizens’ being called to war, their regular occupational
credits would continue to be paid to their dependents
whilst they were absent in the service. Thus there
would be no disruption of the economic structure by the
payment of soldiers’ wages. In a manner of speaking,
they would be paid their wages anyhow, whether fight­
ing for their country on the battlefront, or working for
it at home. They would come back from such wars
without loss of income and resume their regular voca­
tions. What could be fairer? We would no longer see
such disgraceful spectacles as bonus marches on Wash­
ington that an impoverished soldiery might get financial
recognition from an ungrateful citizenry.
With the Commonwealth in effect, it means that both
maternity pensions and old-age pensions would become
91
archaic, since mothers could take time off from their
labors to undergo motherhood with no financial worries,
knowing their dividends were at all times available
whether they were sick or well. Furthermore, the
mother would rest assured that her child at birth was to
automatically begin enjoying its own little government
dividend, h * ± ?
The incalculable benefits, and the altered relationships,
to and in families where indigent old people are now
financial incumbrances, cannot be envisioned, they will
be so far-reaching. Under the Christian Commonwealth
there will be no necessity for elderly people’s remain­
ing a burden upon their children, and the onus of being
forced to go to a charitable institution will be forever
removed. They can rest, travel and enjoy life upon
their own resources—for the $83 monthly, the least
which any of them will receive, will keep them in all of
life’s essentials as long as they shall live. In most cases
the amount received will be more than this, as every
individual continues to get until death the same yearly
credits that he was receiving at the time he reached the
retirement age. How much more just is this, than allot­
ting every elderly person an arbitrary $200 a month,
to be laid as a tax on the middle-aged, even if the latter
proposition were economically possible.
Rights of inheritance will gradually come to an end, for
there will be no need of inheritances under the theocratic
State. Parents can pass into the higher life with the
knowledge that their children will be provided for and
can automatically become affluent according to public
merit, as they reach maturity. Swollen fortunes, pyra­
miding generation after generation, will become relics
of an archaic age, together with all the evils of idleness
92
and extravagance attending on them.
Man for the first time in his modern historic life will be
lifted from the crushing burden of a competitive, water
tank problem. Artists can paint, poets can write, in­
ventors can invent, and musicians can take up music as
a career. All classes of such finely-sensitized brain­
workers can feel that they have a sure basis of substance-
support while they are climbing into fame. Their
progress upward into higher credit ratings will depend
upon their abilities and their appeal to public sentiment.
ET do not think for a moment that there
will not be personal competition, or that
all citizens will be hewn down to a com­
mon economic level. That is where this
Christian government rises superior to
man-made Utopian schemes. That is
where the Theocratic State is superior to the Fascist or
Communist State, still organized on the work-or-starve
principle, jfc*
The severest critics of the Commonwealth idea have to
admit that the populace does much the same supporting
today under an odious charity system, but in a hit or
miss manner that is full of chicanery, spoils and in­
justice. ± #
As for graft in public office under this system, it means
the absolute obliteration of such nefarious organizations
as Tammany in New York City or even the New Deal
bureaucracy, since there can be no financial loot to make
such a malevolent clique of voracious politicians and
scalawags possible.
Automatically these vast evils are uncannily obliterated
under the incoming Theocratic Government without the
93
shedding of a single drop of blood—except as those
now in power, who want the present nefarious and bar­
barous Water Tank system to continue, summon all the
resources of their villainous power to keep it from be­
coming actualized.
But cries of “Socialism!” “Communism!” “the death of
trade and rugged individualism,” “the end of free insti­
tutions!” will avail them nothing. The barbarous water
tank system lies wrecked at this present moment by the
avarice of rapacious bankers and greedy industrialists,
and a nation full of slow-witted economists and huck­
sters in human life are trying to bring the corpse of a col­
lapsed State back to life by performing their silly
diagnoses over it in Congress and conference and wild­
eyed committee.
The Theocratic State is absolutely sound economically.
It does not depend on human willingness to work, in
order to succeed or fail, any more than at present. All
it does is to set up a system where brother cannot exploit
brother to the detriment of the State and excuse it by
declaring that “Business is Business!”
Let us therefore take up now, the other phase of the
Great Corporation’s advantage: the issuance of its
Preferred Stock, and the use that is made thereof to
encourage human initiative to the highest peak of indi­
vidual performance and to get men to work because of
what accrues to them instead of by the lash or threat
of the workhouse. . . .
94
m
VIII: How the Plan is Installed
VER hundreds of generations
mankind has been taught to ac­
cept that hunger is the only
urge that successfully drives
men to perform work or im­
prove their condition up out of
barbarism. C| Millions of “hard-
headed” persons believe this.
They believe it for two reasons,
and possibly three.
The first is truly idiotic and yet
carries the most weight with those who let other men do
their thinking for them: no State has ever been set up
on any other principle, that they know about, and in all
human history there is no record of any other economic
system’s having worked.
Now this is a flat falsehood, based on a manufactured
and deliberately encouraged ignorance. What millions
of persons really should be saying is: “We have never
heard of any other economic system’s being successfully
set up or conducted on any other principle but that of
Hunger.” ±1* ijf
Such a declaration is the saddest part of truth. Indeed
they never have heard of any other system. But that
does not prove it has never existed.
These millions have never heard of any other system be­
cause they are not allowed to know of any other system.
Educational institutions are not supported, in the final
analysis, by the public. Educational institutions are
95
truly supported by endowments of men, or groups of
men, who think they have most to gain from this pres­
ent system. So they see to it that each rising generation
is allowed to be tutored in the belief that any other sys­
tem than the predatory one of the present will not
“work” and that the sum and substance of human his­
tory attests that it will not “work.” If you doubt that
this is so, go to any economics professor and ask him
to lecture on the Christian Commonwealth. He will tell
you, “I can’t! They would fire me from my job.”
Modern education confines itself strictly to the civiliza­
tions of Egypt, Greece, Rome and England. These are
offered for the enlightenment of the student progres­
sively, and it is adroitly conveyed to him that there have
been no civilizations or governmental and economic sys­
tems anywhere in the world of any real importance out­
side of these four.
This is partially because the records of these four show
that they flourished and came to power on a basis of
slave labor—merely an ugly name to apply to any sort
of labor under duress and whether the laborer wanted
to perform it or not.
Those who desire to perpetuate a system of slave labor
because it enriches them as a caste at the expense of mil­
lions of their fellows, naturally do not want oncoming
generations tutored in the knowledge that slave labor is
not only morally wrong but ultimately unworkable.
The “fall” of these civilizations, and the succession of
one by the other in the order named, are presented as
evidence of quite another character than the truth. All
sorts of explanations are resorted to—kingly rapacities,
racial urges, climatic conditions, moral disintegrations—
to hide the clear and brutal facts that would swiftly come
96
to light if the orthodox educational censorship could
be lifted.
Each one of these civilizations really “ fell” for exactly
the same reasons that our so-called American repub­
licanism has finally reached a stalemate, although peo­
ple cannot grasp it as yet. The water tank slave sys­
tem, whether the slave is driven by the lash or the duress
of hunger, ultimately results in a glut of goods in the
hands of a very small element of the population which
has not the physical capabilities for consuming them.
The populace that has made these goods cannot obtain
possession of them, and the element that has acquired
them cannot consume them. So the former rise up and
overthrow or exterminate the latter. Whereupon, with
such a State brought down to ruin by the obliteration
of the possessive caste, another State comes to promi­
nence. is* ip
Civilizations do not “succeed” one another, nor neces­
sarily grow out of one another. Nor is each one an im­
provement on the old. Greece was not an improvement
on Egypt in her prime under the Atlantean kings. Rome
was not necessarily an improvement on the country or
culture that gave Socrates or Pericles or Plato to human
history. England never went Rome one better in any­
thing but sea power and volume of international trade.
The cultures of these “successive” races were sometimes
retrogressive, if the truth could be recognized.
There is an adamant cosmic process that works out in
the growth and decline of all States based on the duress
system. They are founded by people who in some form
or other desire to improve their condition over that
tyranny of a “ruling” or possessing class from which
they have lately suffered until national suicide has re-
97
suited. But each one is engaged or interested chiefly
in escaping the literal despotism of a given line of kingly
persons or the dictatorship of a possessing class. That
escape is effected. In the Egyptian-Grecian-Roman-
English progression, there has been no case of the peo­
ple’s bethinking themselves to alter the principle of po­
litical economics and setting up a system whereby there
could be no slave-driving caste. They changed per­
sonnel of rulership, but let all the abuses go on as be­
fore. Because they did not alter the underlying princi­
ple of political economics, each came to wreckage on ap­
proximately the same rocks. Therefore, by confining
the attention of the student to the fact that each State
ultimately underwent wreckage, it is argued that wreck­
age is a certainty in human affairs and that there is no
system possible by which it can be avoided. Each gen­
eration is taught to believe that it must expect ultimate
disaster and that its State will pass away if given time
enough. Which, under the duress system, is quite the
truth. jfc*
But the world has had plenty of illustrations and attest-
ments that there is an alternative and that it will work
quite merrily. The reason that these golden age States
“fell” in turn, however, or at least are not in existence
today, is quite different from the causes which wrought
the disaster to the others with which the student is al­
lowed to become more familiar.
98
|HE golden age States fell because they ef­
fected such degree of mass wealth and cul-
M3 tUre uniformly among aHclasses, that bar-
EK n» .jPl barous people organized on the hunger-
WQ duress basis cast glances of envy at the
universal prosperity and high cultural at­
tainments of those people, and went in wilful and ma­
licious foray to destroy them.
In other words, instead of altering themselves and ob­
taining the same benefits by following correct principles,
these barbarous systems organized on the slave princi­
ple tried to improve themselves by a piece of gigantic
looting. Because their cultures had rendered human
butchery an offense to them, and relegated the military
to a place of third or fourth importance, the golden age
States found themselves defenseless, both actually and
temperamentally. They went down before the on­
slaughts of alien slaves driven by envious looters. So
the possessive and predatory classes today cry to the
student: “You see! Their system was unworkable be­
cause it made them supine and impotent to defend
themselves against their enemies. Therefore, holding
this fatal defect, they are unworthy of our notice and
study.” i *
No attempt is made to show that if the duress-slave
States had adopted the same principles, all would have
survived and the same high culture could have been
preserved and diffused among all races. The predatory
and acquisitive element relies on looting to keep itself
in power. It is a looting oligarchy on principle. It can­
not afford to let any non-looting culture come to com­
plete fruition, since that would mean the extermination
of themselves.
99
So, because our present predatory-possessive classes
must preserve the looting policy to save themselves
alive, they have to endow and thus control educational
institutions that tutor the new generation in the “fact”
that duress and looting are legitimate human activities
and nothing else will “work.” Anything else is radical­
ism or “impractical theory.”
Thus do we have the despairing millions today who cry:
“Organize a State without the No-Work-No-Bread
fundamental? Absurd! History—meaning the slave
cultures of Egypt, Greece, Rome, England—has shown
that it has never happened and therefore cannot hap­
pen.” ±jr
All of it is an imbecile blasphemy, based on a suppression
of the true facts—so condition reflexes have been worn
in humanity’s brain that any other policy than that of
human hunger-driven labor is “unsound.”
The true historian, not muddled or subverted by false
teachings for a wicked purpose, knows that there have
been tremendous spans of real civilization when the op­
posite policy has worked. In those sequences the race
has known its legendary golden ages. In those cultures,
humanity has not reacted as the “sound-headed” soci­
ologist claims it will act when the hunger duress is re­
moved. Not at all!
The attestments of true and universal history, uncen­
sored, show exactly the contrary of the “findings” of the
sociologists who are in the pay of the acquisitive caste
and responsible to them for findings that perpetuate
them in power, instead of to the truth and to the masses
of mankind.
100
HE second reason why millions of “hard-
headed” persons believe that a type of
kSv4V3I M l economic and political system wherein the
fim y i masses are not under the hunger-compul-
sion system, will not work, is because they
have before them the records of a mass of
socialistic experiments wherein men have immediately
become lethargic and turned to pursuits of idle pleasure
when they have tried to organize on the common wealth
principle. iSjt fy t
Time and time again certain groups have been known
to break away from the hunger-duress Systems and set
up colonies wherein each was expected to perform his
share of the common labor. But in actual practice it
was discovered that a few enterprising persons quickly
came to the fore, the drones proved an insupportable
burden, and the Utopian scheme went to pieces because
all men were not alike in their willingness to labor, or to
recognize their social responsibilities toward the com­
munity as a whole.
All of this is quite true.
No one is making any attempt to ignore these socialistic
experiments or the enlightenments which they produced
in regard to human nature.
But this sort of thing is not the true Christian system
at all! i f
Furthermore, it is only fair to recognize the basic faults
in the principles at work behind such experiments, and
see that it was not the full belly that wrought their fail­
ures but something of quite another character.
It was the fact that all such experiments have been con­
ducted on the assumption that humanity is willing to
share and share alike in such communal life. And hu­
101
manity is far from being willing to share and share alike.
<J Such experiments have been conducted on the policy
of all goods and possessions’ being owned and dispensed
in common, with no stipulations for ownership of pri­
vate property, nor for the differences in human tempera­
ments. i
s
* i
s
*
Right there they went to pieces. Filling the belly had
nothing to do with it whatever. Removing the necessity
of labor in order to ward off death by starvation was not
remotely concerned in their falling apart.
If men actually ceased to labor when they had their
bellies filled, we should have no civilization or advance­
ment of any kind even today under the competitive
method, or the economic duress system—since the work­
man, immediately on satisfying the needs of his stom­
ach, would lose all further interest in social affairs.
The truth of the matter is, that men continue to labor
because they want to enjoy all the increments of labor
which the common run of humanity is enjoying. Or
they want the personal power that comes with direction
over great amounts of goods, to compel the services of
the improvident or unfortunate who do not possess
them, is* tS*
An actual illustration of what may happen socially to
those who will not work when their bellies have been
filled, is found in the South Sea Islands. There once a
year is the breadfruit gathering time. Nature in her
lavishness gives the islander all the food he requires,
merely for the effort of gathering it and storing it. So
the tribes gather and organize to perform the human
share of this beneficence, regardless of the fact that
their bellies are already full while it is in process.
All are expected to “duff in” and help with the bread­
102
fruit gathering. There is no law that declares to the
drones, “If you do not help us gather, you shall not eat!”
Quite the contrary. The islander says to the drone:
“Turn to and help the community gather, or the com­
munity outlaws you socially, and if you do not bear
your part of the common labor over a series of seasons,
you will be killed as a defecting influence against com­
munity morale.”
And the drone is knocked on the skull. It is a social fiat.
If the community meant it as a duress reprisal, it would
only have to deny the non-worker his share of the com­
mon store and he would perish over a period of time by
starvation. But no, he is taken out and eliminated be­
cause he is a pernicious influence making for community
improvidence. J%e
OW the Theocratic State says: “We exe-
MWJ fi cute no reprisals against you whatever ex-
V3 H P cept t^
iat we set UP a system where it is
* * iF»V la even m0re selfishly enticing for you to do
your part than it was under the antiquated
hunger-duress system. If you will help us
to maintain the system, you may attain to ownership of
anything which you see the mightiest among us enjoy­
ing—really attain to it through your own personal ef­
forts, instead of leaving it to economic chance, the death
of someone above you, or your repacious efforts or luck
to win out over a million competitors. That sort of
thing breeds caste hatred and voracious practices. We
encourage you to achieve because it is well worth your
selfish interests to achieve, not because you may starve
to death, if you do not.”
Christian economics says: “You have inviolate right to
103
personal possessions, and we protect you in them, as
many as you can acquire. They cannot even be fore­
closed away from you by taxes—for we levy no taxes
of any sort. But we see that you and all other citizens
acquire such possessions by services and the quality of
them rendered; in other words, by real personal merit
instead of nominal personal merit as at present; not by
chicane, political graft, the power of swollen inheritance,
or legal thievery. We go still further and set up a sys­
tem of safeguards by which you shall be actually pro­
tected in them, in that they cannot be wrested away
from you by taking advantage of your possibility of
hunger.” j%t
It is a far cry from the truly Christian system, to the
various Communistic and Socialistic experiments that
have wanted to whittle all men down to one common
mean of mediocrity, penalize initiative, and encourage
physical indulgence.
The trouble with those systems has been that the hun­
ger duress has really been present in all of them, but
cleverly concealed behind ‘‘dictates of conscience.”
Men must always have an incentive to work and get
ahead of their fellows. The integrity of the individual
demands it. But it is equally desirable, in fact neces­
sary, that each group be protected in its possessions and
attainments, from pernicious exploitation and debauch-
ment by other groups. The safety of the State and the
integrity of the individual demand that also.
104
4E third reason why millions of people de­
clare that feeding the populace as the first
step in setting up the Theocratic State is
impracticable, is because up to this time
no concrete and workable plan has been
advanced whereby such a State can con­
tinue self-supporting and not encounter bankruptcy.
In plain language, because their attention has been held
down by orthodox educational institutions solely to the
histories of slave cultures, men and women do not know
how such a State can operate, much less encourage its
citizens to labor and reward initiative.
Tell them that the Christ’s precepts may hold such a
pattern for a State, and they will scoff at its practicali­
ty quite as thoughtlessly as they scoffed at His spiritual
delineations during His residence in Galilee.
Tell them that at a stroke of the pen a State can be set
up which automatically heals every type of dereliction
in the present body politic, and they will shriek: “Uto­
pia! It isn’t possible until human nature has evolved to
that point where it is fit to enter Heaven. And then
such a State won’t be at all necessary.”
They are taught to shriek Utopia and believe that noth­
ing can be done in the practical founding and function­
ing of such a State, because if they had the pattern of
the Commonwealth State before them, the crass selfish­
ness of the masses themselves would make them em­
brace it. And that would mean the end of the slave
drivers. t y ± y
Well, the Bible has predicted in no uncertain terms the
end of the slave drivers. But first, mankind had to see
by actual demonstration in human affairs, that the slave
system carried within it the tools for its own suicide.
105
Until it had such demonstration, the Plan itself had to
be repressed.
Therefore, we are engaged in learning how such a State
perpetuates itself economically and rewards individual
initiative, so that people are as eager to labor to benefit
themselves under it as economists fancy they are eager
to labor as slaves. It concerns the operation of the
Great Corporation of the United States as a manufactur­
ing and distributing concern.
T is not for nothing that during the past
three generations there has grown up
throughout all nations of the earth the
custom of performing commercial activi­
ties by means of the instrument known as
the corporation.
The Almighty seems to have been tutoring man in the
coming possibilities in the Christian system of govern­
ment by first introducing to him the same system in his
modern business affairs.
The corporate form, and corporate practices would
seem to be nothing but the common wealth system in­
troduced into business before it was, or is, introduced
into federal economics and politics.
In every one of the delineations to follow, if you come to
a knotty point which you cannot seem to “think
through,” or which seems to be unworkable for the mo­
ment, merely ask yourself, “How would such a piece
of business or human activity work out in a present-day
corporation?” and your solution will be quickly forth­
coming. j%r i*
Now, bearing in mind the case of the twenty prospectors
with their individual gold claims in the desert, let us
106
consider that by one stroke of legislative enactment the
American people, all and sundry, agree to transfer their
individual holdings of every description—except their
own personal and domestic chattels—to a Great Corpor­
ation of the United States. They do this, not to relin­
quish their rights to private property, but to receive cor­
porate benefits by a combined functioning of their assets
under corporate control. Just as the twenty prospectors
each received a twentieth part of their new corporation
and yet, by combining their holdings, were able to
finance improvements and operations which no one of
them could do singly, so the American people transfer
all titles to the Great Corporation and receive therefor
evidences of ownership in the Corporation, from which
they are going to derive better benefits—in other words,
government dividends.
We have seen in a previous chapter, how the Common
Stock, each share carrying one vote—the citizen’s vote
at the polls—provides first of all for a common basic
unit of economic support. On the other hand, it would
be Marxian Socialism, or worse than Stalin’s Commu­
nism, to say that the corner blacksmith who merely
owned his shop, his forge, his anvil, and his tools, ought
to be paid at the same rate as a man like Henry Ford.
In other words, how are we going to grade human in­
genuity and industrial merit, as well as deal justly with
millions of American home-owners who want to retain
possession of properties about which there are bonds
of sentiment or temperamental attachment?
That brings us into the workings of the Great Corpora­
tion “behind the scenes.” For the present, we say that
the Corporation of the United States also issues two
other kinds of stock—or rather, two classes of Preferred
107
Stock, in addition to the aforedescribed Common Stock.
This Preferred Stock is apparently going to be issued
in two classes. In the Books of the Future, we seem to
see these designated as “R” and “M” stock.
The “R” stands for Realty, and the “M” stands for
Merit. In other words, there may be an “R” stock
which is to be issued in return for Real Property, or Real
Estate now privately owned either entirely or in equity,
and an “M” stock, to be issued for Merit, or social ser­
vice to the populace at large.
The difference between the two is this: The Realty
Stock is issued for real estate title purposes only and
carries no dividends. The Merit Stock is issued for pur­
poses of grading the personal qualifications of the citi­
zenry and enabling each man to enjoy all the benefits
of the social machinery and the material comforts to
-which he may be entitled by his energies or talents.
This qualifying of men and women according to the
talents, or industry of each, is to be the substance of a
forthcoming chapter, for it needs minute detailing in
order to show its overwhelming fairness and equity to
all classes of citizens, without there being the slightest
flavor of confiscation in this whole incorporation of the
people s property. We leave confiscation to the So­
cialists and the Communists. We are business men of
the new order, engaged in putting through a commercial
transaction that will be absolutely just and equitable to
all the parties concerned therein. Just now we want to
see how the Corporation gets under way in its practical
functioning. il*
108
ET us suppose that such a Great Corpora­
tion has been created by the sovereign peo­
ple themselves—through Constitutional
Amendment—and such Common and
Preferred Stock of all classes is available.
Let us assume that the same officers and
mode of government operate then as now, only the Cor­
poration’s officers are subject to instant recall for shift­
lessness or incompetence, and the stockholders shall vote
on all laws binding them personally to social perform­
ances. in? it*
The Great Corporation sets up in each Congressional
District a temporary registration board. This board
sends out a blank form to every citizen—exactly as the
Federal Government now sends out to every citizen an
income tax blank—which must be filled out by the citi­
zen entitled to receive the Great Corporation’s benefits.
This blank form shall ask certain questions, the an­
swers to which supply all the data necessary for the
quick functioning of the new theocratic system. These
forms must be filled out and sworn to on or before a
certain day, precisely like a tax return. When they are
returned, the Commonwealth will have all the data in
hand to determine the amount of industry which must
operate in the United States in order to fill the physical
requirements of the whole citizenry.
At the same time a similar blank form containing a dif­
ferent set of inquiries, goes out to all agriculturists, min­
ing corporations, stock raisers, manufacturers, jobbers,
wholesalers, retailers and transportation companies.
The first blank form to the citizenry, all and sundry,
asks the place of nativity, the age, the marital status,
and the past earning capacity of each prospective stock­
109
holder. All who cannot give a place of nativity within
America that can be checked with the mortality statistics
and records of such place, are to be automatically classed
as wards—unless naturalized—and denied the bank
benefits to accrue under the corporate plan. This auto­
matically terminates the chicanery and dishonesty now
prevalent in our Department of Immigration where
thousands of the foreign-born are allegedly admitted to
lodge permanently in America to serve subversive pur­
poses. i? i p
Under the forthcoming benefits of citizenship, only the
native-born or naturalized will be able to receive sup­
port. The rest will either have to be supported on the
ward basis in the individual instance or depart for their
own countries still operating under an antiquated water
tank system.
The age, marriage status, and previous places of employ­
ment—with the wages received in each—can also be
checked with past employers, and are of value in quali­
fying the citizen for additional dividends over his Com­
mon or basic hunger Dividend.
The rest of the questions on this form, however, are
equally important as a survey of how much stuffs of all
sorts must be manufactured in the nation for any given
year, in order to properly allocate industry and the pro­
ductive power of industry to supply such commodities.
The average amount spent weekly for food, and for
which foods, and the amount spent annually for cloth­
ing, rent, amusements and other incidentals of life mak­
ing up the family or personal budget, should be report­
ed, all to tally with the current wages received under the
final phase of the expiring system.
While some citizens may think that such information is
110
none of the government’s business, it is to be shown
that all of it is not an attempt to pry into one’s personal
affairs but to gauge each voting citizen’s qualifications
to receive better economic consideration from the Com­
monwealth. i p i p
When this information is gathered and tabulated in Fed­
eral Districts, the poll will disclose almost the exact
amounts of goods necessary to make life secure against
the spectre of privation. At the same time the Com­
monwealth will have at its fingertips a fairly accurate
survey of the industrial powers of the nation as at pres­
ent constituted.
LL this vital information is not one whit
more difficult to procure accurately than
the government’s present tax information.
But this difference maintains: instead of
preparing to take something away from
the populace, the Commonwealth is going
to give it something.
With these reports all in by a given date, the Depart­
ment of Commerce, under Christian economics, oils up
its adding machines and begins to get totals for its goods
budgets for the year. All persons whose personal ex­
penditures or wages have hitherto been below $ 1,000
a year, personal living standard, are arbitrarily allotted
$1,000 a year. By knowing the expenditures of each
family or person, it then becomes simple arithmetic to
determine with a fair degree of accuracy how much
goods, and what goods, must be produced within the
public domain in one year to care for the wants of the
whole citizenry for such period. With these figures and
111
items in hand, the Commonwealth turns to the pro­
ducers. jfc*
Please remember that the Commonwealth Form of Gov­
ernment is exchanging its corporation stock of an invio­
late and standard value, since it cannot be depressed, for
all the property within the public domain and fairly re­
imbursing its previous owners. Therefore, it is now
free to act in the reallocation of industry, not in order
to compete with private firms, for there are no longer
any strictly private firms, but to serve the populace with
maximum facility and effectiveness.
The first gesture is to say to farmers, miners, stock­
breeders, and all manufacturers of staple, meritorious
and worthwhile products: “Go ahead and produce ex­
actly as you were formerly producing. We want no
mass confusion, no upsetting of systems of production.
For the first year, continue to produce as you have al­
ways done; only you are to consider your goods as al­
ready purchased by the Commonwealth. Make and ship
to normal capacity to certain depots which the Govern­
ment will designate. Long before the year is up, com­
petent accountants will have ascertained whether you
are over-producing or under-producing, whether your
plant—which is now the Corporation’s plant—is in need
of enlargement or of conversion into a plant to make
another kind of goods.”
There need be no more confusion in all this than main­
tained when America went on a war basis in 1917. Only
the Department of Commerce would have direction of
industries, instead of the War Industries Board. And it
is not confiscation. The sovereign people are merely
incorporating to do the public’s business by twentieth
century methods.
112
HILE this great industrial census is being
taken and compiled, as hitherto described,
the Federal Clearing House System will
be in the setting-up. The same records
that provide for an allocation of localized
industry to provide for the needs of the
populace, will furnish all the needed data for the print­
ing and issuing of citizens’ cheque books.
In order to prevent industrial defections, manufacturing
breakdowns and other confusions, it is needful that all
citizens have their Preferred Stock credits allotted to
them only as they remain on their previous jobs for at
least a six-month period. It is to their advantage to do
this, because it is in that six-month period that the great
new machinery of modern public service is to be set up
—a public service that does not assure jobs forever re­
gardless of the grade or quality of services, as at present,
but a public service that sifts the competent from the in­
competent, that fits the man to the job according to his
likes and dislikes—for no one under the Commonwealth
is ever coerced—and generally puts men and women in
occupations which meet with their enthusiastic coopera­
tion.
The machinery and objectives of this metamorphosed
Civil Service will also be taken up in detail in an­
other chapter. What people will want most in this six-
month period of readjustment will be goods, and these
must be made available at once.
This will be done by taking a canvass of the present
great mercantile emporiums in each center of popula­
tion, urban and suburban. Those adaptable for the pur­
pose according to the kind of goods to be cleared, will
be designated as Federal Emporiums, into which the
113
products of farm, and mine, and loom, and factory, will
come for sales display.
N order to reward the industrious and am­
bitious element in the populace with the
proper remuneration for its cooperation,
the mass of personal data on the Qualifi­
cation
married or single, whether under or past
majority, shall be gone over again.
It shall be noted what wages each of such persons was
drawing under water tank industry in his last known job.
For the first federal year, every person shall have paid
to him in the form of a bank credit called his Merit Stock
Credit, or plain Merit Credit, an amount equal to the
difference between his Common Stock Credit and the
highest sum he last received under the previous competi­
tive system.
This means in practical application that if a man chooses
not to work, he can only draw his Living Credit of
$83.00 per month and benefit in what it will purchase.
But if he drew $50.00 or $100.00 or $500.00 a week
under the old system he will immediately have such re­
muneration restored to him—provided he continues in
his job and gives his employer, now the Commonwealth,
the same efficiency of service that he formerly rendered
his private employer to hold his job.
This also applies only to those who are in productive oc­
cupations when the United States incorporates its pri­
vately-held assets. By productive occupations is meant
all farmers, miners, stock-breeders, food and clothing
producers, and all creators of stuffs that contribute to
114
Reports of individuals, whether
our current degree of creature comforts. It applies to
public utilities and transportation.
For the time being, until the new Commonwealth Em­
ployment Service is perfected, all who previously were
advertising men, salesmen, public entertainers, journal­
ists, artists, or members of the great army of non-pro­
ducers, as the word is known in economics, shall be
cared for by special provisions to be delineated later in
these Articles.
Make no mistake about it, no one is to be ignored or
overlooked in the benefits of this new Christian econom­
ic system. But special qualifications require special
consideration and treatments, in justice to the parties
concerned. if f if f
The first stipulation is to get the wheels of industry turn­
ing again on a basis whereby every man, woman and
child in the United States shall have either the work they
formerly had, or a minimum credit on which to fall back
for the decent continuance of human life.
115
IX: Where the Dividends Come From
HE HARDEST thing in the
world to do, in expounding a
work of this kind, is to wean
men away from their subcon­
scious reflexes and get their
currents of thought flowing in
entirely different channels.
The first edition of this work
contained 180 pages of explicit
explanation of the Christian
Commonwealth idea. It showed
how all the warring commercial interests of the United
States, that had worn themselves down to poverty and
national bankruptcy under the water tank system of
economics, were being asked to do what thousands of
business men do every day when they change the char­
acter of their enterprises from the personal to the in­
corporated form. It went into express details as to the
performing of this act, and described, even as this edi­
tion of No More Hunger describes, just how each class
of wealth earners would be compensated both for prop­
erties so surrendered and for their labors later contrib­
uted. The first edition went forth and was read by half
a hundred thousand people. Its potentialities were more
dynamic than any other factor in moving the Water
Tank owners of the present antiquated economics to at­
tempt to crack down on and suppress the author before
people actually indorsed his recommendations and clam­
ored for the changes that he advocated.
116
Here, however, was the amusing reaction: even after
reading the book carefully, and discussing it in both part
and entirety, hundreds of otherwise sane, rational and
intelligent people would ultimately inquire—
“It certainly sounds like the most sensible and feasibly
plan that I’ve heard about to date, to settle most of our
troubles at a penstroke. But one thing I confess I can’t
quite fathom. Just how is the nation as a whole to ever
get enough money together every year to pay at least
$83 a month to over seventy-two million adults re­
gardless of whether or not they work?’’ And inevitably
they would follow this inquiry with an exposition of the
difficulties we’re already having in raising enough money
by bonds for Relief.
This inability to escape out of the old reflexes and chan­
nels of thinking, expressed by the lamentation “where
would we get the money,” establishes that such persons
have missed the whole crux and essence of this new
system of Commonwealth incorporation from the be­
ginning. Let me insert a chapter here in this edition,
and say quite positively—
The nation isn’t going to “get the money” from any­
where ! £ ? t ?
To begin with, there is no money in any way involved.
C
J We use the term “dollars,” yes, but that is merely to
express qualities of values. Money, instead of being
currency or specie, becomes a standard of financial
measurement, or evaluation, of both goods and service.
The dividends in the Christian Commonwealth are
not paid in money. They are paid in purchasing power
that for want of a better standard of description of
quantities, is expressed in dollars. That purchasing
power requisitions goods that the whole Common­
117
wealth has produced as a mammoth corporation, accord­
ing to the compensation which the individual has earned
by performing his integral part in the production of such
goods. This requisitioning of goods is the ordinary
process of going into a store and buying whatever is
desired, precisely as at present, and paying for the same
by writing a cheque.
We speak of a “quart of milk.” We mean by a “quart”
a specified standardized quantity. No one ever saw a
“quart” standing off by itself on a table as an abstract
thing. There must always be a quart of something.
S6 in the metamorphosis of society that we are propos­
ing for the happiness and security of our fifty million
children, the time will come when men will say: “There
is no such thing as a ‘dollar’ by itself in the abstract.
You must always have a dollar’s worth of something.”
<
][Today we think of a dollar as a coin of either silver
or gold, or a strip of beautifully lithographed green
paper of exceptional wearing qualities. Really, how­
ever, even at the present time, these are only tokens for
a dollar—a little plaque of silver or gold, or a strip of
tough silk-paper, as the case may be.
Similarly when we speak of “dividends” as accruing
from our stock-holdings in the new Commonwealth, we
are thinking in the old reflexes of dividends’ being profits
from operations in finance or commerce that are paid to
iis from a surplus, the wages of business itself in the
corporate form. When we speak of “dividends” in the
theocratic State, however, we mean those allotments of
purchasing power that represent our personal compen­
sation for what we have performed or contributed to the
social wealth.
To express it bluntly, the “dividends” paid to 80 million
v 118
adults, and 50 million children, will not be money-sums
procured from somewhere and parceled out to each
individual according to his holdings. They will be the
actual sum-total of the produced goods of the whole
nation, applied for, and paid for, and used, by the same
persons who in their several capacities have produced
them! ijr jfcjr
T IS quite as simple as that. Furthermore,
it is only carrying forward into its per­
fectly developed form, exactly what goes
on today in commerce—only the water
tank scheme of economics withholds
a portion of the wages of the laborers^
considered in the grand accumulate, retains them for the
Industrialists of the Water Tank Fable, and labels them
“profits.” They are not profits, of course, except as
some individual or caste of individuals terms them such
because he or they came by them without personally
doing the work which they symbolize. Somebody did
that work, however, sometime, somewhere. It may
have been done by one man, a hundred, a thousand, or
a million. No matter. Somewhere along the line the
laborer had to stand for a petty chiseling on what he
had produced, and in the accumulate these chiselings
became “profits” in the private form, or “dividends” in
the corporate form. It makes no difference whether that
laborer worked for two dollars a day or fifty thousand a
year. Someone has marked-up the value of his duly
rendered services, and charged society that marked-up
sum for the salable whole. The difference has been
labeled a profit. If society pays that marked-up sum,
119
either one of two things has happened: either the
laborer, no matter what his rank or numbers, has been
defrauded-—
by not getting all that society was willing
to give him for what he produced—or society has been
defrauded by having to pay more than it should, so long
as the laborer was willing to work and produce for a
lesser amount.
This is not saying that those supposedly public servants
who, in the present archaic system are termed whole­
salers, middlemen, merchandisers, and distributors, are
not entitled to an appropriate wage for performing their
services. It merely says that all services shall be paid
out of the Great Corporation’s exchequer—such excheq­
uer not being great piles of useless gold or bank notes
hid in steel vaults and absurdly guarded, but represent­
ing the total trade balance or value of all the nation’s
goods themselves—wherein there is no excuse for
profit. The next generation will look with amazement
on present methods of squeezing up prices to the en­
hancement of conniving racial and financial cliques, or
on the ten-penny chiseling of the corner huckster in his
attempt to cheat you into paying more than the item is
worth. ± ?
Equally, will be protected the unfortunate business man
who at present is forced to mark his goods below what
they have cost him in the unfair competition with great
combines who have, by the merciless law of their
growth, determined to control everything so that at the
top a few millionaires may gain to utter domination of
life in general.
We will buy merchandise at stipulated prices just as we
do today, only those prices will not represent the inane
concoctions of a profit system, falsely labeled the law
Cl 20
of “supply and demand’’ by equally false economists
who thereby shield the system of “skinning your neigh­
bor” or of creating false values that false profits may
be obtained.
Forever will be ended such matters as “cornering of
markets” and all which is the product of cut-throat,
greedy competition, which, in the straining after “some­
thing for nothing” and ever greater and greater power,
has beggared the people and left at the top that anomaly
of civilization, the international banker who accepts
without any qualm of conscience, in that he is part of a
merciless system, that it is the divine right of the sur­
vival of the fittest to sell humanity’s “pound of flesh.”
Like great beasts they would continue in their course
of barbarous cannibalism by springing at each other’s
throats to see who will dominate the world, in that if
they don’t the next one will.
However, returning to the exposition of Christian eco­
nomics, in this matter of profits, right here enters
another item which few take into account—
In a country like the United States, where only 10 per­
cent of its trade goods are sold to foreign countries—
whether the latter are richer or poorer per capita than
America—where 90 percent of the bulk of its goods are
home consumed, we are confronted with the peculiar
circumstance that the average man who produced the
goods as a laborer is the same average man who must
acquire and use those same goods, as the buyer. If
someone, somewhere up the line, tacks on a marked-up
price therefor in order to make a profit for himself, and
then turns about and sells the same goods to the man
who produced them, will some magical intellect from
another planet please be charitable enough to inform
121
all of us where the actual money comes from to pay
for the mark-up?
Here is the principle expounded in the Water Tank
Fable, presented at its best—and worst.
Of course in such a discussion we are considering the
American workman as a mass, not as a single individual
at any given moment.
The American people as a laboring whole, up to the
present time, have worked at their several occupations
and produced a given quantity of goods. True, their
varieties run into thousands and their revenues into
millions—and even billions—83 billions of dollars in
1929, to be exact. Every Saturday night for 52 weeks
in a given year, they have been paid a grand lump-total
of wages. Those wages must of necessity be less than
the finished value of all those goods, since depreciation
charges on the equipment that produced them, and the
mythical item of profits, have also entered into or been
added into the final sales prices assessed on those goods.
But no genii with bags full of gold from another planet
are going to come along and buy those goods, to lug
them back to that other planet or consume them, sepa­
rate and apart from the people who got their wages for
producing them. Nothing of the sort.
Those marked-up goods are expected to be sold to the
very persons who have drawn less money, in the grand
sum-total of their wages, than the finished goods must
cost them!
They can do it in the matter of individual items, of
course, up to a certain point—the point where they have
exhausted those lesser amounts of money received as
wages. In the matter of individual items so disposed of
during that process, the individual dealer declares he
122
has made a profit—because after the specific trade has
been made the item has been lugged away in return
for the money paid for it.
That is all very well, until the wage earner has spent the
total amount of his wages. But the wage earner rarely
does that. He “wastes,” in the economic sense, a lot of
his wages on such things as extravagant entertainment
—movies for instance. He gives money to charity. He
helps to support relatives. He pays taxes. He chisels
some out of his living expenses and puts it by for a rainy
day as savings. This means less sum-total cash actually
spent to acquire the goods he has madfe.
What happens? As we have seen in the Parable of the
Water Tank, there is bound to be surpluses of goods
left over that he is unable to buy. They either have to
be given away, or production has to halt until by some
magical process the laborer obtains the money to buy
them. Right there, loss comes in. In other words, the
mythical profits begin to disintegrate. They begin to
melt and vanish because they never existed except as a
hypothetical item.
As production slows down, people are laid off. They
begin to live on their rainy day savings, or on bounties
from relatives or the government. They are thereby
adjusting the economic balance and seeking the ultimate
of their buying power, insofar as their wages, expendi­
ture of which was formerly curtailed, will permit them.
But still in the grand accumulate there must have been
exactly the amount of goods left over in a “glut,” that
was represented by the arbitrary mark-up figures which
men have fondly and zealously believed to constitute
profits because for a little time they had sold certain
articles for more than their cost.
123
If you have followed my line of reasoning thus far, you
should discern therefore, that the greater the period of
seeming prosperity because business has been good and
profits have been heavy, the more terrific must be the
readjustment and the more distressing the period of
depression as those “profits” are washed out. The glut
is going to be heavier and therefore it is going to take
longer to get humanity back to a state where the glutted
goods have been consumed and the production of new
must begin.
Consider what happens! Those people must meanwhile
live. Someone must feed and clothe them. They are
not allowed free access to the whole of the goods they
have produced and that should serve them now as ade­
quate compensation for what they have done; for that
would be confiscation of the profits of the affluent
classes. So they apply to their government for “relief.”
The government has no money of itself except what it
wrests from its citizens in taxes—another depreciation
from normal earnings. It has to go out and borrow
money to feed and clothe these people because they
were short-suited in getting the full value of what they
had manufactured and yet allowed someone to mark up
hypothetically above what they had received. The gov­
ernment cannot borrow money from these stricken peo­
ple themselves. It must go to the affluent classes who
have believed themselves rich in acquiring and possess­
ing the glut of goods that the makers thereof cannot
buy. It either over-taxes those affluent people, or it
borrows their “profits” from them by asking them to
invest in bonds. Then it takes these revenues and doles
them out to the laborers, short-suited from the begin­
ning. The laborers use these relief funds to live for a
124
period in practical idleness. What truly is happening?
That which rightfully belonged to the laborer from the
beginning is being returned to him in another guise. The
false and mythical item known as profits is being washed
out as though it had never existed. The rich are being
“soaked,” we say. They are really having wrested from
them, in a form of polite confiscation, what they never
truly possessed because it never truly existed.
That would not be so bad if the arrangement stopped
there. But there are all sorts of items that enter in,
making the dilemma worse from the economic stand­
point. Each time the government comes to the affluent
and borrows back from them what they think they have
been clever in taking as profits, it promises to pay them
a bonus for the loan of the money. This bonus is called
Interest. It means that from somewhere additional
funds must be derived to pay these victims of polite
confiscation for the inconvenience of such confiscation.
As it is not produced value, that is, increment taken by
labor from Mother Earth, it must be chiseled from
someone. Instead, however, the government chisels it
by the tax requisition on the citizens—already short-
suited in their wages—or it simply piles up the sums
thus owed, in a book deficit carried along in ever-mount­
ing sums from generation to generation as the Public
Debt. This seems to work for a time, even throughout
a whole generation or series of generations, because no
one ever expects the Public Debt to be paid. So men
think the system is sound. But sooner or later there is
such a debt strain on the citizens that they revolt at the
demands on their already short-suited compensations,
and a revolution or overthrow of the government re­
sults. There is a time of currency inflation or stark
125
repudiation. Merely a washing out of mythical sur­
pluses of profits again, this time represented by Interest!
The nation makes a fresh start with practically every­
body beggared. Everybody goes to work and starts
obtaining wealth anew from Mother Nature.
But the fiend of the profit obsession soon starts to thumb
its nose at men. And the merry imbecility starts all
over again.
NEED not speak of other items, some of
them tremendous in size, that play other
roles in gypping the mass-laborer of his
rightful compensation. A man discovers
an oil well or a coal mine on his property.
Drillers and miners draw, say $5 a day, for
extracting such wealth from the breast of Mother Na­
ture. The oil or the coal goes through a dozen processes
of refining. Carrying charges are added. Many men
draw wages which contribute to the national buying
power. By the time the product reaches the consumer,
it has jumped to three times the sum that has actually
been expended to put it in his possession. Not one but
many profits have been added, for the various operations
along the line. But all of these profits taken together
have not totaled the sum which the original owner has
assessed upon it as its value at the source. The man
who discovered oil or coal on his property gets a cer­
tain price per barrel, or ton, for being lucky enough to
have paid $6 an acre for the farm on which it was dis­
covered. He may get $6 a barrel for his oil, or $6 a ton
for his coal—as much per barrel or ton as his whole
acre cost him to start with. It is the ownership charge
126
and someone must cover it—in addition to all the labor
and hauling costs. Where is this coverage to come
from? If the laborers who each received $5 a day are
those who buy it—and in the last analysis they are the
only ones in existence to buy it—it means that they
can only buy $5 worth for a given day. The man who
discovered it swings in a hammock and thinks he is
watching his wealth rolling in. A lucky accident merely
put it in his possession. But what really happens is,
that as he is paid his ownership price per barrel or ton,
it has to be filched out of the lower-paid services of
quite another class of wage earners. And of course it
usually is, else we would never have any oil or coal
barons. But in the day of mass reckoning, in the time
of final economic accounting—there not being enough
wages to go around in the accumulate to purchase all
that has been produced—someone is stuck with exactly
the amount of product that represents what the owners
have received without working for it. So the oil wells
are shut down for a long period of time, and the coal
piles up unsold at the mines, and the only way for this
glut to be carried is to finance it by issuing millions of
dollars’ worth of stocks and bonds that sooner or later
must be repudiated to make the balance true.
I will only mention the 40 billion dollar war that comes
along now and then in this modern universe and blows
or burns the glut all to bits without anybody’s even
having the personal use of it, but whose value remains
to be paid and adjusted by still uglier losses in the
accumulate which a future generation must accept.
Verily, at times it seems that we live in a universe of
fools! . . .
127
OW the Christian Commonwealth, and
Christian economics, do not say that we
should all draw the same wages, or that
business as Business should not be paid its
lawful wages for services performed. But
unless the laborer who labors, be he
gardener or railroad president, or the railroad as a cor­
poration itself, receives the full compensation for that
which he produces, and the sum-total equals the
sales (?) value of what is produced, sooner or later
someone must get stuck with a glut of product on his
hands on which he must take a loss.
Bradstreet reports that 90 percent of all businesses fail,
and we have commonly supposed that they became im­
properly managed. Maybe 90 percent of businesses
have simply swung these periodic cycles of mythical-
profit washout and had to disgorge what they only
thought they possessed—or possessed only hypotheti­
cally. Think it over.
Christian economics claims that the water tank system
is idiotic. It declares that the only wealth that truly
exists is the sum-total of the work that is done in pro­
ductive occupations. And the only way to provide
against the glut that ultimately is bound to force the
proper readjustment, is to apportion that wealth over the
entire population, those in service groups as well as
those directly occupied with production, thereby mak­
ing it possible over an indefinite period of time for the
entire populace to receive as compensation the same
amounts as the goods are valued at.
“But,” cries someone, “how then would anyone ever
make any money?”
The answer may seem equally imbecile to those think­
128
ing along the water tank economic philosophy, but it
faces the equation audaciously. “No one has ever
“made” any money since the dawn of civilization.
There never has been a cent of profit ever taken for any
given operation that was truly a profit. One man’s gain
has been somebody else’s loss. Ultimately those who
have hoarded such gains from the losses of others have
in turn had to disgorge—in alms, loans to the govern­
ment, confiscatory taxes, or repudiation of the public
debt. The mills of the gods grind slowly and the indi­
vidual does not see what is being ground. But still,
they grind. In such imbecile business, the Jew is the
only one who is smart. He keeps his wealth liquid. In
taking his profits, he puts them into tokens, called
money or currency, easily portable, so that he can skip
out when the inevitable crash comes, or transfer his
wealth to countries abroad that are not affected by the
readjustment. But always and forever he is a Mer­
chant in Losses. Sometimes he goes in, in a big way,
for mortgage paper, personal or national. That means
that in the liquidation, he can secure for a fraction of its
potential value, properties that give him the right to
charge exorbitant sums for original natural wealth. The
former owners are beggared and ejected. Again I say,
the Merchant in Losses!
The Christian Commonwealth goes at the business of
compensation in this wise: Nothing counts but com­
putations of human effort, whether measured in dollars
and cents, or in materials and standards. Therefore
the only true value of all the goods produced must be
the sum-total of all the wages paid, assuming that such
wages represent all the human effort that has gone into
making them available for public consumption. If the
129
wages are equal to the cost and amount of the goods
themselves, then the purchasing power exists in the
body-politic to acquire them. There can never be a
shortage, there can never be a glut. The balance at all
times stays true and even. The laborer, whether he be
railroad president with a steam yacht, or humble miner
with only his pick and shovel, in the sum-total of func­
tion all over the nation, is thereby able to acquire all
that has been produced.
How utterly absurd it is, to reckon the currency repre­
senting these compensatory values, as something that
has a value unto itself and that can “ball up the whole
works” every little while by interjecting itself as a
factor to be reckoned with. Money can only have value
as it directly represents the value of goods produced. It
should not be traded in, or marked up and down, for
the value of the gross metal in which it is cast. That is
supplying it with a double value that is basically un­
sound as such basic standards are applied. So instead
of using gold and silver coins, or bank notes based on
debts, the Christian Commonwealth says—
Let your medium of exchange be the bank cheque, and
the money it is drawn against be the sum-total of the
wages, in the form of a yearly loan that never has to be
repaid when it is spent. Or it amounts to that, to get
the idea across.
In other words, suppose we place to the mass credit of
the citizens, in the Federal Treasury and its district
branches, the full value of the manufactured or pro­
duced goods, as compensation for having produced
them, and let the laborers cheque against the mass-sum
as they have requirements for those goods. Let every­
thing be sold at cost of production; and let the high-
130
priced magnate draw his wages—and spend them—
along with the poorest artisan, but call them wages, not
mark-up “profits” that somehow, sometime, have to be
washed out. Then there can be no glut, no filled water
tank, no cycle of depression, because the sum-total of
the buying power is equal to the sum-total of that which
exists to be bought. And in the grand accumulate, too
intricate for the individual brain to follow but none the
less mathematically accurate as to denouement, the
balance will stay true.
Or sum it up by another illustration—
UPPOSE we consider the United States, as
I have so often suggested from the plat­
form, as an absolute island. Instead of
Canada on the north, suppose there was
only ocean, and the same with Mexico on
the south. Further, suppose that there was
no other land area above water on the surface of the
globe, that America was one island, one country, one
nation. jfc* -j%t
Now on that single continent-island are marooned
130,000,000 persons. There are 80 million adults, and
50 million children. Of that 80 million adults, 40 mil­
lion are women, keeping their homes, bearing their
youngsters, and caring for their menfolk. Of that 40
million men, some are carpenters, some are miners, some
are farmers, some are manufacturers, some are great
industrialists, but each has his chore to perform for all
the rest of the islanders, no matter how grandiose his
compensation. j%f i *
Very good! Now suppose they all “duff” in and do
their work. But there is not a single gold or silver
131
dollar in all the island, nor has one ever been conceived
or manufactured. Some way must be found to divide
up all the goods so that each gets his fair share of the
total production, according to his industry and talent.
What better way could there be, I ask you, than for
the management of the island to keep a book account of
what each man has done, what its value is in relation
to the whole production, and how much goods should
be allotted to him in consequence? Only, instead of
actually dividing up the literal goods and making com­
pensations ‘‘in kind” as payment in goods is expressed,
suppose that all the workers have placed to their com­
mon credit in a bank the total value of that composite
production for a given year. They can buy, or not buy,
any kind of goods as they choose, but buy and consume
all ultimately they must, in the very nature of things—
or cease making the kinds of goods which nobody
consumes. i ? ± *
Now then, break down that sum-total bank representa­
tion of the produced wealth into 130,000,000 bank
accounts, each varying according to the individual con­
tributor’s labor value, and turn each of the 130,000,000
bank patrons loose to write cheques for those goods as
they might require or seek them. So long as they write
no “rubber” cheques for more than they have in the
bank, they may use up the exact bank credit that repre­
sents those produced goods.
It is quite as simple as that.
There is where the dividends "come from” to pay the
80 million adults and the 50 million children! And no­
where else!
I have happened to call them “dividends” because they
are allocated according to ownerships of stock in the in-
132
dividual case. Perhaps that has confused some of my
readers. I might better have stated it, that the 130,-
000,000 producers and dependents in the United States
have bank accounts automatically replenished every
year to the exact value of all the produced goods in the
United States within that span of time and as they
qualify by their stock ownership. Is that clearer?
What does anybody care whether the actual gold or
silver dollar is in the bank to represent the dollar for
which we write the cheque? A thousand business men
go into banks every day in the year, borrow money,
have credits placed to their accounts with the interest
deducted in advance, or return to their offices and order
their cashiers to begin chequing it out, and from the
moment the loan is made to the moment that the final
dollar is used, never set eyes on a “cartwheel” or a
greenback. Is anyone so adolescent that he cannot grasp
how 80 million adults might do the $ame under the
Christian Commonwealth, and the effect be no less
real or practical? For a hundred years the Jewish
banker has trained us to accept the bank cheque as being
quite as good as cash. We have bought and sold with
it, so long as the credit at the bank was real and the
cheque would be honored. Well, why not go one step
further and say that the credit is there annually when
backed up by the whole produced wealth of the United
States, and that we really do not require that the actual
gold or silver dollar be in existence in the bank vaults
at all? It was the Jew who taught us to use bank
cheques, or “orders to pay,” and to make them nego­
tiable cash instruments. He did this because he wanted
to horde our specie in his personal possession, so that
every little while he could use his hoardings to embarrass
133
our political princes with a headache as to where their
kingdom’s currency had disappeared to—and get his
own way in measures of State. Now the joke is on the
Jew. We really don’t need his specie at all. We can
go straight ahead with the substitute he has shown us,
and operate independently of him.
Yes, why not?
It is coming to that, and the Jew has the jitters. . . .
134
X : Encouraging Rugged Individualism
MAN to whom this more sensi­
ble form of government was
outlined, exclaimed: “It won’t
work because it’s against hu­
man nature. The great princi­
ple of Americanism is, that a
man shall have unrestricted op­
portunity to acquire all the
money and power he is capable
of commanding. Take that
away, and you strike at the
very roots of individual initiative and talent that have
made America great.” €| Even to a lawless and waste­
ful exploitation of one’s neighbors?” the author asked,
tj “Absolutely! If they don’t want to be exploited, let
them watch out for themselves. That sort of struggle
develops human character.”
“But how about its victims? May it not also debauch
human character? And suppose such competitive and
lawless effort puts all the power into the hands of one
little clique?”
“That couldn’t really happen because the great mass of
people wouldn’t stand for it.”
“Indeed? And how could they help themselves?”
“Driven far enough, they would pull off a revolution.”
t]j “How could they possibly do that, if the exploiting
group had set up an absolute despotism? A despotism
is always a despotism, remember. It relies for its power
in being in absolute control of all the instruments of
135
publicity that make a revolution possible.”
“Oh, they’d find a way to do it,” the first declared
vaguely. i f
“Yes? Have they ‘found a way’ to do it under Fascism
in Italy, or under Bolshevism in Russia?”
“But Italy and Russia are not America. We have too
big an educated class in the United States.”
“Has their education been advanced enough to save
them from the manipulations of the money-bund to
date?” q “—No— ”
“And what if the water tank system simply won’t work,
because the more successful it is, the more galvanic are
the elements of ruin within it—more so for the exploit­
ers than the exploited?”
“I don’t know what you mean.”
“Suppose the despots discover that, having exploited the
populace, they have gathered all power into their own
hands. Suppose they are in complete possession of all
instruments of production and all the wealth in the na­
tion. Who is going to do their common work?”
“The citizens, of course.”
“And how me they to be compensated?”
“Oh, they’d have to be paid enough to live on.”
“And where would it come from?”
“From the place it’s always come from: the employer!”
“Then you admit that the employers—or exploiters—
would have to surrender in a minor degree some of their
holdings in order to keep the citizenry alive that the
common work might be done?”
“Certainly!” t ?
“Then that would mean giving back to the populace a
portion of what had been wrenched from them?”
“Put it that way if you like.”
136
“But only enough to keep them alive!”
“Well, they ought to get a little more than enough to
keep them alive of course.”
“How much more? Where are you going to set the
figure?” jfc*
“That would have to be left more or less to the generosi­
ty of the employers.”
“And when in human history have employers ever been
thus generous? Isn’t it true that in such a situation, left
to the generosity of exploiters and profiteers, the popu­
lace becomes nothing but slaves and serfs? Isn’t it true
that the class war from the beginning of time has been
the fight to use the same force to wrest ill-gotten gains
away from the profiteers that the profiteers have used
to acquire those gains?”
“Perhaps.”
“Then the system that is not against human nature, ac­
cording to your philosophy, is one in which this struggle
is made more bitter as time goes on, and has a tendency
to demarcate the classes further, instead of working for
social unity?”
“Who cares about social unity? That’s the dream of
Utopian socialists. This is a world in which Nature has
decreed a policy of ‘Every man for himself and the devil
take the hindmost’.”
“All right. Let’s see where it leads. Wouldn’t it be
only human nature, for the exploiters or the profiteer-
possessing group to rid themselves of the troublesome
masses who continually demand an increasing share
of wealth, by substituting uncomplaining machines
for such critical human labor? The very nature
of their possessiveness would demand that they give up
only what they can be made to give up. Isn’t that so?”
137
IP “Certainly!” i p i p
“All right. Now suppose inventiveness continues to a
point where all the work formerly done by human labor
is performed by machinery. The possessing group
would hail such a state, wouldn’t it, in sheer realization
of its own philosophy? In other words, such a mechan­
ized State would be the ideal State for the predatory
group since it meant returning to the populace nothing
whatsoever?” i p i p
“I suppose so.”
“All right. Then, in that event—and human ingenuity
is attaining to it in seven-league strides—what becomes
of the populace? What supports it?”
“Oh, you couldn’t have a completely mechanized State,
since someone would have to control the machines.”
“But a comparatively small percentage would be re­
quired for that. Isn’t that reasonable?”
“Yes.” i p i p
“And what becomes of the balance of the population?
What supports them?”
“The State, maybe.”
“And where does the State get the money to do it?”
“Where does the State ever get money for anything?
By taxation, of course. By issuing bonds. By tariffs—”
“But the citizens have already been beggared to the
point where they have no money to pay taxes, to buy
bonds, to meet imposts!”
My interlocutor was growing thoughtful—and angry.
I continued—
“And who or what is the State, in such an ultimate situ­
ation, but the predatory group that has made itself para­
mount under such a system?”
“Granted; but what of it?”
138
“Then if the predatory-profiteering-possessive group has
to support the populace that’s left when all the machines
have been manned, how are they any better off than be­
fore, by having and operating the machines?”
“At least the masses are under their control.”
“All right. To what purpose?”
“At least they can say who shall work and who shall
not.” is* is*
“To what purpose, I ask again? What good is such
despotic power if it results in no difference in the work?
If the machines do it all, and anyone can tend them,
what difference does it make whether the tender’s name
is John Brown or William Smith, or whether his skin is
white or black. Outside of these machine tenders is a
vast populace that must be supported for doing nothing
at all—and is at mischief as well, through having noth­
ing to occupy its attention. Can you not see, therefore,
that the very philosophy of the predatory, exploiting
class defeats itself? It carries within its principles the
germ of its own suicide.”
“All the same, it’s against human nature to expect that
you can build a social structure on anything but Greed!”
t| “Aren’t you really confusing predatory greed with
mortal ambition to better itself? No one wants to deny
human nature the privilege of bettering itself, nor wants
to cut all persons down to the same common mean.”
“But there’s no other system but the competitive greed
system for exercising that ambitious streak in human
nature!” is* il*
“No? How do you know there isn’t?”
“But if there were, we should long ago have heard
about it.”
“Would you have said twenty years ago that there was
139
no such thing as the radio because up to that time in the
ages, humanity had never heard about it? The fact of
the matter is, it has to be part of the preservation of the
predatory philosophy that the populace be educated to
think there is no other system. Any attempts to ex­
pound it have been squelched and disparaged. There­
fore, the populace never has heard of it. Or any exposi­
tion of its principles has been execrated as Socialism,
Communism, or Radicalism that tends to tip over exist­
ing institutions. One would think the only alternative
to the exploitation system was a return to barbarism, so
blistering is the comment when attempts are made to get
information about the Commonwealth out to the exploit­
ed people. Whereas the exploitation system is not only
barbarism but operates to keep humanity in barbarism.”
tj ‘‘All I know is, humanity is so constituted that it will
fight to the death any attempt to take away its right to
seize what it can on the competitive basis. Competition
is not only the life of trade; it is the improvement-urge
in action, lifting humanity up from savagery.”
“What you are saying then is, that Might makes Right!”
“Put it that way if you wish.”
“And are you perfectly willing to live under such a sys­
tem?”
“Yes, if I have the right to climb into power as I improve
my opportunities.”
“Regardless of the fact that the perfect achievement of
your power means the loss of it?”
“I don’t admit that it does.”
“In that when you have perfected your machine age to
the ultimate, you have eliminated everyone over whom
you can possibly exercise that power.”
“It couldn’t come to that!”
140
“But, my dear fellow, it nearly has come to that. Which
is why the economic system throughout the world is
breaking down. Machines have made so many goods
available and placed them in the hands of a small prop­
erty-favored group at such a low return in wages, that
they cannot be bought or consumed, and there is a grand
stalemate in which no one seems to know what to do.
Those goods cannot be consumed because they cannot
be bought. They cannot be bought because en masse
they must be bought by the very people who made them
■—the great wage-earning populace. But machines draw
no wages and consume none of their own product. The
machine-tending class is constantly growing smaller.
Therefore, the populace has no wage-money with which
to turn around and buy the goods, at any price. As mat­
ters stand at present, there are only two solutions, from
the water tank standpoint, by which the old system could
go on and operate. Either the profiteering-possessors
must turn about and lend the populace cash to buy back
its glut of product, or the profiteering-possessors must
distribute them free, so that the storehouses may again
be filled on the competitive basis. And the employing-
owning group will do neither, because both defeat their
own philosophy.”
"But the competitive system has always worked up until
the past few years. Why should it suddenly break down
now?” ± f
“Because this is the first time in the history of modern
society that the world has had an era of machinery
wherein one machine can do the work of fifteen work­
men at no other expense than the running overhead.
Since the World War, mass production has speeded up
until wages have become only a fraction of the value of
141
goods that the machines have produced. Without the
wages, humanity has no money to buy the goods. So
they are piling up to surfeit while millions are starving.’*
€| “But humanity has always pulled out of previous de­
pressions. Why should it not pull out of this one?”
“Because up to this time there has always been new
country to open up and exploit. In America there has
always been a safety-valve of virgin territory in the
West. People could go there, draw richly from Nature
by the true wealth-producing methods of employing
their two hands, and thus produce new wealth to ex­
change for the glut of manufactured machine products
back where they came from. As these new territories
created new resources, these resources were bartered in
the glutted markets and the stocks reduced so that men
could go back to work and glut the market all over again.
This is the unfortunate circumstance that has fooled so
many economists. Then, too, a false standard of wealth
called commercial paper has been encouraged, by which
millions could be supported for a time in non-productive
jobs. But ultimately the falsity of both as features of
true and permanent prosperity had to be exposed. Since
the war, almost unnoted in the press, inventions have
curtailed the labor market. The bankers have been let­
ting these people feel that borrowing from them, or their
financial or goods storehouses, and thus living on the
previous glut, was a stable condition that would always
last. But 1929 proved otherwise. In a manner of
speaking, these loans fell due. Not actual loans, so much
as false arrangements under the stern economic law. So
now the world confronts a situation never before known
since Egypt in which there are no more virgin lands to
exploit, and no alternative means of livelihood for the
142
populace that has thus had its buying power brought to
a standstill. What you call previous depressions, out of
which we have always worked, were nothing but minor
crises warning humanity of the major crisis that would
ultimately come when all virgin lands were exhausted
and machines that required no wages had come totally
into their own. What has happened throughout the
world, aided, too, by the withdrawal of gold by the
predatory bankers of the world, is a stark demonstration
that the water tank, profit-grasping system is unwork­
able. Palliatives may be adopted from month to month,
all sorts of silly tax systems may be tried out, the preda­
tory groups that have cornered the ownership of this
glut of true wealth—that is, goods—may lend back a
portion to the populace through governmental channels
or otherwise, so that the reprisals of the economic law
may be delayed. But all those are but postponing the
evil day of reckoning. In the end the shift to the correct
System must come.”
‘‘What correct system have we but Socialism or Com­
munism?” i p i p
“We have the Commonwealth System of Government
over society and economics—a State that feeds human
ambition exactly like the Water Tank State, but does
not abolish the right to private property nor whittle all
men down to a common mean as in Russia’s imbecile
experiment. It is a State wherein the sovereign people
first take census of the needs of the whole population,
and then a census of the productive sources of the na­
tion as a whole. One is divided into the other and pro­
duction carried on, along the basis of what our populace
needs, or can consume, instead of the amount of money
available for buying such products from a predatory
143
monopolistic owner group according as the latter has
graciously made those funds available through either
wages or bloated loans at pyramiding interest.”
“You intrigue me,” said the defender of the exploitation
system, when the conversation had gotten thus far. “But
how are you going to reimburse all classes for such labor
as each individualistic person may be able to perform,
without providing for all equally, as under Socialism?”
ff “We are going to incorporate the United States as a
nation, for the carrying on of a sovereign people’s busi­
ness affairs. We are going to have this colossal Cor­
poration put out three classes of Stock. In the first
place, there shall be some 130,000,000 shares of Com­
mon Stock, one share to each qualified citizen, with the
franchise at maturity as at present. The one vote is the
citizen’s voice in the government corporation. These
Common Stock shares shall pay each voting citizen a
minimum annual return in the form of a Government
Credit, of $1,000 per year. That shall guarantee the
crude living expenses of all the citizenry, and forever re­
move from the nation the duress of the hunger bugbear.
<1 “Then the incorporated Commonwealth issues two
classes of Preferred Stock. The first is Real Estate Stock
—or Realty—paying no returns in any sort of credits,
being merely exchanged for certain classes of private
real estate properties to which individuals may have
inalienable rights—such as homestead rights, or rights
in properties that assure them roofs of their own selec­
tion or inheritance over their heads, or about which there
may be sentimental bonds of attachment.
“The second class of Preferred Stock is Merit Stock.
That is, it is used to reward individuals for services to
industry or the common good.”
144
ET US see how this Merit Stock is equit­
ably distributed. First, as previously de­
scribed, all persons exchange their proper­
ties for government securities. The Com­
monwealth thereafter has a free hand to
re-allocate and redistribute industry ac­
cording to the peculiarities or needs of certain centers of
population, i f
Under the cut-throat water tank system, different in­
dividuals, because of different capabilities, draw different
sums in wages. That system is not only perpetuated
but enthusiastically encouraged, under the Common­
wealth. But it works out in this manner, as distinct
from the old:
A full report of the Government made with the incom­
ing of the Commonwealth, shows what sums each and
every person in the public domain was drawing or not
drawing as remuneration for labor on May 29, 1928. In
all productive occupations, these are maintained for the
first year, or until the Commonwealth has the opportu­
nity to institute its new Merit Public Service System.
But, according to those reports, men are classified ac­
cording to qualifications. The basic unit for all re­
muneration let us say, is arbitrarily set at $1,000 annual­
ly per person over 21 years of age, or $83 a month.
A person whose capabilities are such that he had never
commanded more than $ 1,000 annually, whether man
or woman, married or single, is listed as a “ l-Q” per­
son, or One Qualification person. We next jump to the
$2,500 a year person. If under the old Water Tank
System the person drew between $1,000 and $2,500,
he is automatically qualified for the first Transition Year
as a “ 2-Q” person. He, therefore, receives a Preferred
145
Stock credit with the Commonwealth of $1,500 addi­
tional to his basic Common Share Dividend rating—
which last accrues to him anyhow, as a matter of his
citizenship. Practically, therefore, so long as he is sat­
isfactory to his superiors, willing to work and hold his
job, he can command goods and pleasures, as at present,
up to $2,500.
We next jump on the same basis of figuring to $5,000.
A person that the old competitive system pronounced
worth $5,000 a year, is known as a “3-Q” person. With
his Citizenship Common Stock Dividend deducted,
which he receives anyhow, but which will only buy him
the bare necessities of life, he has an additional Preferred
Merit Stock credit with the Corporation of $4,000.
Our next qualifying jump let us say, is to the $10,000
man. If under the old system he shows by his income
tax reports that he received more than $5,000 but not
over $10,000, he becomes a “4-Q” man, and has a Pre­
ferred Merit Stock credit of $9,000 in addition to his
Common Citizenship Credit.
Our next jump is to the $15,000 man. He is a “ 5-Q”
man, and qualifies in Class Five. He gets an additional
Merit Stock credit of $14,000.
The rest of the Qualifications on the same system are:
$15,000 to $20,000, “6-Q.”
$20,000 to $25,000, “ 7-Q.”
$25,000 to $50,000, “8-Q.”
$50,000 to $75,000, “9-Q.”
$75,000 to $100,000, “ 10-Q.”
The President of the United States would thus be a
“ 10-Q” man, and under the practical administration of
the Commonwealth Government it shall be considered
preposterous for any individual in the State to be more
146
highly compensated. To be raised to the Tenth Qualifi­
cation shall be one of the highest honors within the gift
of a sovereign people, and shall be more or less elective
with them.
Under the Commonwealth, when Lindbergh returned
from his epochal flight to Paris, he would have been
automatically eligible for the “ 10-Q” rating and would
not have had to become subservient to the Guggenheim
Foundation and its racial interests.
Men of “ 10-Q” ratings shall be considered the most hon­
ored citizens in the State and shall be in the class with
those who now receive congressional medals for excep­
tional services to the whole people. And what is stated
for men in this delineation, of course, goes for women,
on an absolutely equal footing.
UT,” cries the critic of the Commonwealth,
“that means that no matter how hard a
man strives, he cannot earn more than
$ 100,000 per year. That sets a limit on
human initiative!”
This is true insofar as material possessions
are concerned, or the right to enjoy material increment.
It should be remembered, however, that under the Water
Tank system, as at present functioning, sums beyond
$ 100,000 to the single person are sought because of
predatory economic power which they carry for further
exploitation of the populace.
No man is alive today who cannot enjoy every facility
and convenience of civilization, the most comfortable
home, table, clothing, transportation, and all other per­
sonal conveniences making life worth while, on an in­
come of $100,000 annually. Anything above this figure
147
represents boorish or profligate extravagance and make9
for the breakdown of morale rather than the improve­
ment of society.
An executive in his senses, who is not warped with a
power complex for exercising a personal despotism to
which he has no moral right, should not aspire to a great­
er remuneration than that with which the nation honors
its chief executive, considering it the acme of individual
award financially for even the needs of so distinguished
a citizen, t p i p
There are three higher qualifications, as shall later be
designated—the “ 1l-Q” men, the "12-Q” men, and the
“ 13-Q” men. Those above the "10-Q” financial re­
muneration are reserved for the men who in any given
year perform—
(1) The greatest service to mankind in an inventive
way; ± *
(2) The greatest service to mankind in an artistic way;
(3) The greatest service to mankind in the field of na­
tional and international statecraft.
Abraham Lincoln under the Commonwealth would have
been honored as a “ 13-Q” man.
Harriet Beecher Stowe for writing Uncle Tom’s Cabin,
General Lew Wallace for writing Ben-Hur, and John
Sargent for painting the murals in the Boston Public
Library, would have been honored as “ 12-Q” citizens.
Thomas A. Edison, and Henry Ford, would have
been honored as “ 1l-Q” persons.
We were discussing, however, the practical working out
of the Merit Stock System. Let us go back a moment
and see where such tremendous remuneration comes
from in actual goods or services furnished these various
classes of people—
148
NCLE SAM now grades all citizens quickly
and accurately into classifications of in­
come in order to levy the income or federal
surtax. Similarly, a few days or weeks of
compiling the data on the blank forms de­
scribed in a previous chapter, will show
the federal officers of the Commonwealth about how
many units of Preferred Merit Stock requiring dividends
paid in classifications and qualities—not to mention
amounts—of goods, it is necessary for the productive
industries of the nation to bring into actuality.
Make no mistake, the dollar system is still to be em­
ployed to represent units of values, but the dollar is a
purely nominal designation. When the full statistics of
the needs of 130,000,000 people are thus compiled, the
next step is a survey of the reports of productive indus­
try, to see where and how such products are to be
brought into actualization.
The first endeavor shall be to make each center of popu­
lation as self-supporting as possible, and as representa­
tive of American industry as a whole, as can be realized
in the face of different allocations of raw materials and
grades of specialized labor.
This is to the end and aim that people of a given com­
munity shall be set at classes of work which they enjoy
performing, i p i p
It is found that humanity in general, regardless of its
location, contains about the same numbers of persons of
representative inclinations toward different kinds of
work. Those who are bound to particular localities by
family ties, or by sentimental attachments for home­
steads or particular communities, should be honored and
protected in such inclinations, not ruthlessly torn from
149
them and arbitrarily ordered into regimented industry
as under Stalin’s Communism.
The Theocratic State, therefore, ordains and system­
atizes such particular jobs to particular people through
a Regional Department of Labor.
This, in reality, is an idealized equivalent of the present
Civil Service; the class of work is elective, provided one
can pass certain examinations qualifying the applicant
for the job. If the job is not open in one locality, it may
be in another. The Department of Labor that diverts
all the Regional Committees of work allocation, within
a specified federal district, keeps information of desired
employment available throughout the whole district and
throughout the whole nation.
If a person in a given locality has qualified for a certain
job, and wants to work at that sort of labor, he must
wait to enjoy the merit qualifications of that position
when it falls open. Meantime, he works at his present
lower qualification, or, if there be no job open to him,
he is cared for by his Common Stock Dividend of $83
monthly until it is. At least there is no workless element
existing on the verge of economic starvation. At the
same time, all people are inspired to seek higher ratings
by the increments that go with higher ratings.
150
HEN the data on the amounts of goods
necessary to be produced to satisfy the
needs of all citizens of all classes within
the Commonwealth have been provided,
the survey completed of the productive
resources of the nation, mainly of agri­
culture, mining, stock raising, and manufacturing, it is
then a matter of simple arithmetic to determine how
many hours per week each class of persons needs to
work to produce such total product.
Under this system, the more machines and inventions
that can be introduced, and the shorter and finer the
methods for turning out a given quantity of goods, the
more leisure and recreation are available for the workers
in that Qualification or that industry, without the
slightest risk of loss in revenue personally.
This means that invention may take a sudden upward
curve wholesomely, for there will be no more suppres­
sion of inventions that destroy the labor market or
undermine existing corporate investments.
Under our system of Competition, some people imagine
that modern individualism has been responsible for the
growth and development of invention. The facts seem
to be, that only those inventions have been allowed to be
developed which have gone to cut manufacturing costs
—primarily labor costs—and they have been husbanded
and developed, to the increased impoverishment and
misery of the general populace, while a thousand inven­
tions of which society knows nothing, have been bought
up and suppressed where they threatened to jeopardize
private investment or overturn existing monopolies.
The antiquated competitive system really works to dis­
courage real invention, since it now suppresses these
151
inventions of machines or processes that lift the status
of the general populace, and enhances the increment of
a small tight group that already is provided for to a
swollen and inhuman degree.
The troubles of modern labor unions, under the Com­
monwealth arrangement automatically cease to exist,
since there is no longer any need of driving hard bar­
gains with predatory employing groups. Workmen will
work strictly according to the demand for goods based
on a gauged consumption. Their hours will be deter­
mined by the trained workers and machine facilities at
hand to realize such production to meet that consump­
tion, with, of course, reasonable surpluses or reserves
in many lines to provide against drought or pestilences
or acts of God. A workman can learn from published
charts of production needs exactly what is expected of
him in any particular job. When he has done that
much, with the additional creation of proper reserves,
there is no need for him to labor one hour longer. He
and his family can then proceed to enjoy the benefits
accruing to him educationally or recreationally under
the Commonwealth without the slightest jeopardy to
his income.
152
jsms ANICS, market gluts, and over-production
that has to be sold at a loss, given away or
yrji vpvsj destroyed, would be unknown, or at least
properly prepared for, without disastrous
“ consequences to the individual laborer. If
overproduction for a time were dictated
by reasons of public policy, these great stocks of goods
might safely be stored in central depots without affect­
ing the labor market in the slightest or putting a damper
on the ensuing season’s crop of commodities. In that
event, the individual producer would simply be excused
from further laboring until it was expedient to resume
production after consumption had made it necessary.
He could take a vacation on full pay. But if he allowed
such vacation to undermine his working morale and
decided that he was having too good a time to go back
to his job, the Regional Labor Board would at once
qualify another worker for his place and this would
automatically reduce him back to his Common Stock
remuneration. Thereafter he would have to await his
opportunities and work up through the ranks all over
again in order to enjoy the emoluments he was receiv­
ing from his rank at the time his lassitude struck him.
This is not the place to elaborate on the qualifying of
all grades of abilities, temperaments, and inclinations to
work, that must be encountered in practical application
of these suggestions. What to do with the constitu­
tionally lazy Negro, for instance, requires treatment at
some length further on. The antagonistic alien, the in­
herently lawless element, the naturally predatory peo­
ple, must be handled in a hard-headed and practical
manner. The first consideration of the Commonwealth
is to make the wealth of the nation available to the in-
153
dustrious element of the populace on a basis that does
not repudiate present obligations, that does not con­
fiscate present holdings and possessions without making
adequate and permanent compensation for them, that
discourages dronery, that rewards individual initiative
and rugged individualism even higher and more posi­
tively than at present, but that drastically circumscribes
the predatory person or rapacious group that wants a
mighty fortune in order to work out unhallowed ends or
wield an unwholesome despotism over human life and
morals. 5 $ ' ;
Incidentally, the improvement in public morals under
the Christian Commonwealth cannot now be estimated.
The Oldest Trade in the World for women would auto­
matically receive a body blow for the first time in
modern history. No woman would have to sell her
body to avoid death by starvation, since if she were
native-born she would be receiving her “ 1-Q” rating
simply because of her citizenship. She could not sell
herself if she were not native-born, first, because her
alien status would quickly become apparent and she
would be made to naturalize herself or betake herself
out of the country; second, because the man to whom
she might sell herself would have difficulty paying her
in anything other than goods, since money as such
would have to be paid by cheque with the chances of
embarrassing publicity.
Under the Commonwealth, public credits will profit the
individual only in direct goods or services rendered him
by the whole sovereign people. The goods, of course,
will be transferable by gift or barter. But money for
nefarious purposes or moral debauchery would en­
counter a restraint. A man may keep a woman, in
154
effect, if she is foreign born, or if she is not content to
live on her “ 1-Q” rating. But that is merely tanta­
mount to unlegalized marriage, and is not a problem in
public prostitution.
By the same token, the dope traffic would fall away,
since illicit sellers of drugs could receive goods for them
only after those goods had been purchased by the in­
dividual on his bank credit. True, such goods like
diamonds, or goods of compact value that could be
exchanged in foreign countries for money, could be
commanded only by people of high “Q” ratings; but
it is not among these high caste persons that the drug
habit has its most nefarious influence. The present
rich, when addicted to drugs, offer no real menace to
the health of the race. It is among the general populace
that drugs sold in quantities work most havoc, due to
incitement to predatory crime.
As for the improved status of married women under
the Theocratic State, it means the true liberation for
which women have been striving for centuries, since no
woman with her “ 1-Q” rating established would be
wholly dependent on the whims of one man to preserve
her from starvation. Brutal, arrogant, licentious or sel­
fish husbands could no longer wield an economic club
over their wives in a state that at best is legalized prosti­
tution. Human matings would be for love only—not
necessarily free love, but the love that attracts and holds
because of mutual interests and good behavior.
If it be argued that such a system might disintegrate the
family, let it be contradicted that such a system would
do more than all else to strengthen it. This by the cir­
cumstance previously described, whereby children from
birth to seven years had $250 a year put aside for their
155
sustenance, children from seven to fourteen had $500
a year reserved for them, and adolescents between four­
teen and twenty-one had $750 a year available, strictly
on the proviso that they were kept in school!
The effect of these credits for minors, when allowed to
be dispensed by the parents as a trust, would be to draw
the family interests closer, from the selfish economic
benefits accruing. A pair of parents with five or six
children would in the aggregate be receiving a high rate
of compensation from the Commonwealth Corporation.
They would automatically lose all this if they broke up
the family.
Only the brutal or the incurably selfish could possibly
resent the introduction of the Commonwealth. And
these, in any state of culture, are a menace to the morale
of the State to begin with, and should be properly dis­
ciplined by denying them increments in the interests of
the public probity. When women are free of the de­
grading effects of the economic lash, they will assume
a position in the State that will improve the race
physically, mentally, and spiritually.
The poor, benighted soldiers of Russia were bemused
into rising against the Czar to set up a cooperative form
of government, but have found themselves the victims
of the hunger-lash principle under a closed group of
megalomaniacal, apostate Jews.
It has been the vague groping toward the incom­
ing Commonwealth that has motivated the Utopians
of all the generations from Plato onward, and
prompted a thousand abortive gestures that are labeled
Socialistic. ± *
All these experiments, from Plato to Stalin, have
failed to take into account the urge-to-power instinct in
156
humankind that so many try to describe as “human
nature opposed to any curb on its predatory rights.”
They have either ignored it, or sought to stifle it under
schemes to make people in communities share and share
alike. ± ? ± *
People will not share and share alike, and there is no
reason why they should. But they will work together
for the common good if their selfishness is controlled
and directed into constructive channels where it com­
mercializes to the profit of the whole body politic in­
stead of the possessive group.
The encouragement and development of true rugged
individualism is what the Christian Commonwealth
would achieve, while at the same time making certain
that rugged individualism is “individuality in bona fide
expression” and not a form of economic sadism inflicted
on the impoverished by materialistic cynics.
Now let us take up the most vital recommendations of
the Commonwealth for protecting and preserving our
people in the possession of their homes. . . .
157
XI: Real Estate
NE of the terrors arising before
the average thrifty citizen when
any change in the present order
of economics is discussed, is
the possibility that he may
stand to lose the home or the
property for which he has
worked hard and paid in full.
51He certainly will, under
Communism or Socialism, be­
cause the very keystone of
those unsound and unwholesome schemes is a confisca­
tion of private property. Under Communism all
property is State owned; under Socialism it is equally
divided.
The Commonwealth government will have none of
either. Christian economics says: “There is a way to
obtain all the benefits of cooperative civic endeavor and
yet protect to the final degree the integrity of the in­
dividual and his rights in property for which he has
worked and for which he has paid. We confiscate no
one’s lawful property. In fact we go so far as to de­
clare that a man cannot be foreclosed out of his property
even by court judgments or defaulted taxes.”
It is to learn just how the imminent Commonwealth is
to handle the perplexing problem of personal property,
particularly as to real estate, and homes, that we are
asked to consider the forthcoming information.
Under Marxian Socialism, or under Communism, the
"158
ownership of private property is looked upon as some
sort of social crime. These pernicious doctrines declare
in substance that all men shall forfeit their rights of
ownership and that every form of ownership shall be
vested in all the people.
They advocate such extreme and unfair measures be­
cause it is the essence of their social faith that all men
should be pared down to one common standard, that
there ought to be no caste or class distinctions of any
nature, and that all humanity should be reduced to
one basic economic level where no man is allowed to
enjoy anything that all other men cannot enjoy, re­
gardless of their mental or spiritual development.
In other words, the endeavor of both Socialism and
Communism is to capitalize mediocrity and make it an
offense of an order for anyone to show individuality or
try to lift himself above the lesser attainments of his
more indolent fellows unless the whole mass can go
along also,
The Commonwealth government declares that it is evil
to so penalize initiative, ambition, and personal thrift,
or to say that no man or woman shall travel faster than
the general citizenry. The essence of earthly life is the
free opportunity for each man and woman to travel
ahead as swiftly, and perfect themselves as expertly, as
they are capable, always as individuals. In fact, the
Commonwealth would provide for a faster rate of per­
sonal progress than anything man enjoys under any
governmental system of the world at present.
The Commonwealth government sanely takes into ac­
count that all men are not born equal in social, finan­
cial, or mental attainments. In projecting any form of
economics that is to endure, this fact must be faced.
159
People are not alike; they represent all grades of
consciousness and spiritual evolution—which is why
most Utopian schemes based on an absolute equality
finally fall apart.
Nevertheless, by the mere fact that he has been invited
into earthly life by the procreational invitation of his
parents, and given a body that must have air, water and
bread to keep it alive, man does have certain inalienable
rights that the State must protect if it in turn proposes
to endure.
The citizen has the right to demand of his government
that it shall protect him from all forms of physical vio­
lence tending to destroy his life. But that is only one
half. The State should likewise protect him against
predatory groups that, unchecked, would consign him
to the torture of slow starvation. Again, we say, there
is no difference between meeting death from an assas­
sin’s bullet in the head or from lack of food in the
stomach. Of the two forms of death, the former is to
be more desired since it is experienced quicker and means
the lesser suffering.
This stipulates that the State shall not only provide a
man with a job and protect him in its permanence, if he
sincerely wants to work and improve himself, but it
should go further and give him one hundred percent
protection in ownership of that which his labor brings
him.
In other words, the incoming Commonwealth makes the
absolute and inviolate Integrity of the Individual the
corner stone of its existence. We shall see how this
works out in a moment.
160
OLITICAL states today do exactly the op­
posite, regardless of the lauding they re­
ceive as “free” institutions. The govern­
ment today affects to preserve the in­
tegrity of the individual. But it is a half-
executed and nominal protection. To­
day the government only protects the average citizen
against the gun of the assassin, and that not very effec­
tively as in great crime centers like Chicago and Los
Angeles. It labels as “paternity” the protection of the
citizen against slow starvation. It does nothing about
securing him a job or seeing that his work holds out
around the year, that the economic structure may be
healthily maintained. It offers him protection only in
his property rights when burglary or arson is attempted.
In fact, today, under these antiquated, water tank
forms of social administration from which we are suffer­
ing frightfully at present in spirit and purse, the govern­
ment in many instances actually joins hands with public
enemies, jfej*
If a great criminal like A1 Capone was, extorts millions
of dollars from honest people by murder and intimida­
tion, the State demands that he divide up a portion of
his loot. If Capone pays his income tax, he may keep
the rest! Or let us suppose that a man finds it impos­
sible to meet his taxes on his home through illness, lost
work or other rigors of the times. Then the present
rapacious water tank system steps in and actually is a
party to selling him out, turning him adrift on the sea
of society to make what shift he can. This is called
Foreclosure for Non-payment of Taxes.
With such malpractices operating full blast year after
year, the present State has the audacity to call itself
161
“civilized,” and even jails people for declaring there is
a far better way of conducting the public business.
Modern governments based on hatred, force and eco­
nomic greed, wonder why a weak-minded element re­
fuses to obey their dictates making for the public
morality. Predatory groups that imagine they profit
in purse under the present system, hire journalistic and
collegiate mercenaries to battle to the death any sugges­
tions for a more equitable order of things, declaring that
such improvements are nothing short of “tipping over
existing institutions.”
The Christian Commonwealth first provides absolute
safety of life, limb and stomach for its citizens. Next
it sets up a method of administering the public busi­
ness that scientifically distributes jobs to all those citi­
zens who want to work and improve themselves, and
protects the workers in those jobs, forever ending lay­
offs, strikes, lockouts and depressions. Next it says: “It
is the duty of the State to encourage and promote the
growth of the family and the home. We do this first
by making men and women economically independent
of one another and of society at all times, so that they
can marry without the economic item’s being a factor.
Then we encourage them to stay together and raise
children, by making them trustees of credits which each
growing child is allotted from the State.” So long as a
man and a woman are living together in lawful matri­
mony, the State sees to it that each of them is allowed
$83.33 a month on which to exist, assuming they qualify
to receive it, and various graded sums are allowed for
each of their youngsters until they become of age. A
child from birth to seven years of age has a $250 annual
credit; a child between seven and fourteen years has
162
a $500 annual credit; a child between fourteen and
twenty-one has a $750 annual credit. And at twenty-
one years of age, the children succeed to the same
$1,000 annual credits as their parents. So an incentive
is supplied for a man and a woman to remain together,
and they are rewarded instead of penalized for having
offspring. Last but not least, and that is what we are
now to investigate, the State says: “We must make it
attractive for every family to own its own home in such
a manner that it can never be ejected for any reason
whatsoever from that property.” To accomplish the
last, the whole system of private ownership is put on
an entirely different basis from the present. No one
stands to lose a penny in confiscation of homestead
rights. The only classes that are asked to render a
different kind of contribution to society are the great
vested landlords of property that is rented, who now
trade on a basis of economic greed and put people home­
less into the streets if they cannot find means to pay
their rent, t # tt*
These must become freak relics of the past. The
process of eliminating them is already at work, by a
system that now subjects them to beggary by confisca­
tory taxes levied by irresponsible legislatures, voracious
city grafters or lack of demand for their properties as
rentals. So the new set-up that is coming in really works
them no harm that they are not suffering at present,
while it does take care of them as individuals in an
amazing way.
Not to be maudlin, it is the sweet reasonableness of the
whole new idea of the Commonwealth, that constitutes
its appeal to every caste and class, provided all grades
of citizens truly understand it.
163
N foregoing chapters we showed wherein
and how the citizens of these United
States solve most economic woes of the
present by incorporating their national
Government. Precisely as twenty prospec­
tors each owning $50,000 in gold claims
they have found in the desert, join together and incor­
porate a company of one million dollars, each accept­
ing one-twentieth of its common stock without consider­
ing that they have abandoned their personal owner­
ships to private property, so the sovereign people of
America incorporate the United States into a Common­
wealth with as many Common Shares as there are
qualified citizens.
Bear in mind, however, that the first care of a whole­
some and healthy civic state is to preserve the integrity
of the family. This can only be done by encouraging
home-making to the highest degree. And this encour­
agement is supplied by the operatings of this Realty
Preferred Stock, or “R” Stock as it may be colloquially
known, it* jfc*
The Merit Stock, or “M” Stock, is used to give people
an incentive to work and earn more than their sub­
sistence allotments of $1,000 a year under their Com­
mon Stock ownings. Men and women in all classes
and grades of talents and abilities, may have this Stock
issued to them in amounts commensurate with the worth
they present to the body politic, up to $99,000 annually.
But the “R” Stock is non-dividend-paying and is pro­
vided purely as a means of giving citizens homestead
titles and protecting those citizens in those titles and
properties which they cover.
Following the procedure in vogue among all applicants
164
for the formation of a business corporation, in view of
the later stock benefits to be derived by each subscriber
to the stock, who in this case is the native-born or
naturalized citizen, the citizen transfers his present indi­
vidual holdings to the Corporation.
The Commonwealth has a very effective method of
keeping political administration pure and efficient, as
has been shown in previous chapters. So there should
be no more hesitancy in making such surrender than
there would be in selling one’s property outright to the
Government at present and receiving therefor a first-
class Government Bond. This Commonwealth stock
which the citizen is to receive may be a lot more precious
than the government bonds of the present.
This means that for a brief and technical instant, every
square inch of land and the property on it, in every
part of the United States, will be nominally owned by
the Commonwealth.
Forthwith the government divides all this “real” prop­
erty, as it is called to distinguish it from personal chattels
which are at all times inviolate to the citizen, into two
classes: Productive and Homestead.
The productive property remains permanently in
custody of the Commonwealth, and consists of all agri­
cultural lands, all mines, all stock-grazing lands, all
manufacturing properties of every description except
publishing plants and one or two other exceptions which
will be treated in detail further on in this series.
This is not confiscation, as the owners of these who are
also operators are compensated and retained to run them
precisely as they do now, or as they were compensated
and retained to run them during the late world conflict
under the War Industries Board.
165
The creation of the Commonwealth Corporation auto­
matically dissolves all lesser corporations as they exist
at present, and abolishes stock ownership in them by
private individuals. But as present stockholders in cor­
porations are cared for under other provisions of the
Commonwealth, and as the present trend of stock de­
flation is steadily toward the ruin of those individuals
at present, this is a temporary concession which stock­
holders make in the interest of the whole people. We
will return later to this surrender of privately held stock
in business corporations. Let it lie for a moment.
When you grasp the exquisitely simple and harmonious
arrangements ultimately to be effected, you will lose
any umbrage at this technical maneuver, if you are at
present a heavy owner of various types of industrial and
utilities securities. We are most interested now in
homestead property rights.
Homestead property rights cover real estate that is at
present owned and operated for private living purposes.
ET IT be set down here and now, that
under the Christian Commonwealth the
economic phenomenon known as Rent is
to become forever a thing of the past. No
one after the inception of the Theocratic
State is to pay any rent or any taxes.
Both are superfluous. Instead, all moneys advanced for
the privilege of living in properties are to be applied
toward ownership rights in those properties, which may
be disposed of without a penny’s loss, in case a citizen
wishes to give up his holdings and move to another
locality. ±jr jfc*
Let us explain it by describing what happens to the
young man and the young woman who marry and wish
to set up housekeeping. First remember that there is
no economic drawback to keep them from wedding,
since both, being 21 years of age, already have their
Common Stock and resources of $83.33 a month each,
to keep them alive on a “ 1-Q” standard of living.
After the honeymoon they return to the place where
one or both may be employed in the new Common­
wealth administration, and where they have their Fed­
eral Bank credits on deposit. They want a house to
live in.
Let it be stated that the introduction of the Common­
wealth rings the death-knell to the modern apartment
house and the congested city tenement. These mon­
strosities that crowd human beings together like animals
are barbarous and water tankish. People may live in
proximity to one another in urban life, exactly as they
do at present, or if they do dwell in apartment homes
they buy a property interest in the structure until such
time as the nation returns to its more normal and whole­
167
£ w m
some form of cottage life. The trend of the Common­
wealth Republic, abetted by faster and better means of
suburban travel, is toward individual homes with a plot
of land about them in each instance.
Remember that present city congestion is the logical
product of an economic business system that makes it
necessary for people to live near their work, where long
hours are the custom in order to keep pace with com­
petitive firms.
When the mythical-profit system is discarded, men and
women will be found working only three or four hours
per day at given occupations instead of the soul-stunting
eight or ten hours of the present. We are on the
threshold of an age when it will seem as inhuman for
a workman to spend nearly all the hours of sunshine
confined indoors at his tasks as we now think it barba­
rous that our grandparents went to work before sun-up
and labored until seven or eight o’clock in the evening.
Hours of work under Christian Economics will be de­
termined by how long it takes, over the year, for a given
set of workers in a given line of production to make
approximately the amount of goods the American peo­
ple are going to consume of their product. When that
consumption figure has been met and goods supplied,
workmen are free to indulge themselves as they desire
without the slightest effect on their wages. Wages are
determined not only by the nature of the work per­
formed but also by the amount of the product manu­
factured. The point to be arrived at first is, what is the
worth of a man to society in a given occupation. Very
well. Determine that by dividing his production into
the quantities of goods desired by the whole populace;
not by how much society is willing to pay or can pay
168
merely to acquire the goods. At once the latter will set
up a false and mischievous standard of compensation.
<J So let us say that the young man has a “ 2-Q” rating
in a job that gives him a bank account of $2,500 a year.
His wife also draws her Common Citizenship Dividend
of $1,000 a year. So between them they have resources
of $3,500 a year on which to start matrimony.
Very good! Just as we figure today, the quota of the
family income for rent should be about one-fourth of
the total income. So this young couple would be
justified in hunting a house that under the old system
of the rapacious present would bring $875 a year as
rent, or $73 a month.
Let us say they walk the streets of their city and see
an ideal house standing vacant. They know it is within
the resources of their purse because instead of an ugly
and disfiguring rental sign, the curtainless windows of
that house show simply a number. In this case, the
young couple would discern the placard 73 in the win­
dow. That would inform them that the Commonwealth
will sell them this house for no payment down and a
monthly payment of $73. There is no “See John Smith,
or Your Own Broker” sign in evidence, for all realtors
have quit business, or rather, are serving as highly re­
munerated members of the Regional Realty Boards.
This young couple know that having selected their
house, it costs them a monthly payment of $73 to
begin owning it, and they must see this Regional Realty
Board about their “R” Stock title.
They present themselves at the Realty Board Office and
make application for a Stock Title Deed to that cottage.
There is no red tape. Twenty minutes should be all
the time required to start the machinery rolling in their
169
behalf. And what is this machinery?
The young man acquaints the clerk in charge of home­
stead properties in that particular district, with his
Federal Bank rating and Citizenship Number. A mere
phone call to the Federal Bank establishes the correct­
ness of the young man’s attestments. If he is a work­
ing citizen in good standing, receiving his annual bank
apportionments, he is presented with an application for
the purchase from the Commonwealth of as many
Realty Preferred Shares as the house represents in dol­
lars. Bear in mind that it is the house which he buys
through buying his Realty Shares, not the land. He
has the use of the land as long as he occupies it, and it
is his, inviolate. But the house represents the sum-total
of a given number and quantity of materials which
workmen have had to produce, plus the working hours
for which the Commonwealth has paid to construct it.
So the purchase is always of the structure. Under
Christian Economics, all land technically belongs to the
Creator and no one can own it, although the Common­
wealth has full jurisdiction over it.
Let us assume that the cottage chosen is worth $8,750.
The young man subscribes for eighty-seven and one-
half shares of “R” Stock from Uncle Sam at a par value
of $100 per share. He agrees to pay for those over a
period of ten years, at $875 per year, $73 a month.
The Federal Government, in pursuance of this purchase
contract, hands him back a Certificate of Ownership
which is to all intents and purposes a warranty deed.
He acknowledges this and writes his cheque for the first
payment of $73. He tears out the cheque and gives it
to the clerk. On the completion of this swift and simple
transaction, he is handed the keys to the premises and
170
in the eyes of Uncle Sam he is thereafter the owner of
that property in fee simple. It is then up to him to live
in it, keep it up, and forever consider it as his own.
The clerk takes the “R” stock subscription and his $73
cheque and sees that both are sent to the Federal Bank.
The young man need not worry about making his pay­
ments. He need not concern himself about any future
monthly arrangements at all. The Government is his
servant, not his landlord. The whole sovereign people
is his real landlord. It simply means that when he goes
to the Treasury Bank the next time for his monthly or
yearly apportionment, he will discover that the Bank
has given him $73 less per month for him to draw
against. His “R” stock instalment has already been
deducted for the month. He simply gets a lesser sum
or purchasing power for other articles, during the ten
years that he and his wife are paying for their Realty
shares.
Take notice here, by the way, that in the case of mar­
ried couples this transaction is always recorded in the
name of the husband or the wife, never the two of them
as a team, regardless of their marriage. This is to
simplify the bookkeeping at the Federal Treasury.
In other words, the sum is deducted from the account
of the one who is technically recognized as “the head
of the family.”
Single persons may of course acquire homestead prop­
erties by exactly the same procedures if they are drawing
bank credits large enough to enable them to “swing”
the payments, exactly as at present.
It is the woman whom the State aims to protect most
in the homestead rights, however, no matter if the pur­
chase contract was made in the name of the husband.
171
The wife has her innings in the transaction, in the sur­
render of the property, if the pair come to such a de­
cision. For the protection of the family by the Com­
monwealth we discern a cross-transfer of equity in the
wife’s behalf, taking place. We can best illustrate it by
observing what happens in the event that this young
couple have lived in the cottage four years and then
wish to move into another Federal District in another
State. $3* ijjf
What do they do?
|HEIR account at the Treasury Bank dis­
closes that the government has been with­
holding $73 out of the monthly credits for
48 months, or a total of $3,304. In other
words this couple have “bought” and paid
fQr 35 “R” shares and have them to their
credit with the Commonwealth government. No one
can ever take them away so long as they live.
Having decided, let us say, to move from the
move trom the town
where they started housekeeping, to Minnesota, they go
to the Treasury Bank and make arrangements for the
transfer of their monthly credits from the home district
to the new district in Minnesota where they expect to
reside. In a five-minute operation the Commonwealth
gives them a receipt for the 33 “R” shares which they
own, and which are good for the purchase price on any
available piece of homestead property of any nature or
price anywhere in the United States.
With this receipt they go back to the Regional Realty
Board and surrender the key and certificate of occu­
pancy of the house they are quitting. The receipt is not
technically good for the credit elsewhere in the United
172
States until countersigned by the Regional Realty Board
official, attesting that key and certificate have been duly
turned in. Then they may be upon their way.
There is no distressing running about to find a buyer
for the property, to dicker and bargain and take what
they can get. Uncle Sam is always a ready buyer at
exactly the amount of money they have paid him for
their Realty Stock. Granted that the property has
shown wear in the four years, and that it may be priced
to the next would-be owner in consequence at $45 a
month. What matters it? The property does not exist
to be rented or sold on a false profit-taking basis. It is
nobody’s loss. Loss has been eradicated. When it
reaches a certain degree of delapidation, Uncle Sam will
either pull it down and rebuild it, or he will use the
money which the young husband has had deducted from
his bank credit, to put it back in shape. Is that any
reason, however, why the young man should be penal­
ized for thrift? He has suffered cuts in his bank balance
month by month. If they do not show up against one
piece of real estate, let them show up against another.
Uncle Sam is the national landlord, but not in the real
estate business to take profits. He is in the business of
seeing that his young folks are comfortably housed and
rigorously protected in the fruits of their thrift.
The young couple arrive in Minnesota and see a house
that is ticketed at $ 146 monthly. The husband has be­
come, instead of being a “2-Q” man, four years later,
a “4-Q” man. Very good. Having made his local
Treasury Bank a visit and discovered that his govern­
ment has accordingly transferred all his documents,
stock certificates in the Commonwealth Corporation,
and Realty credits, to his new district, he visits the
173
Minnesota Regional Realty Board and makes applica­
tion to buy the house “worth” $17,500. He goes
through the same brief, easy process of “buying” 175
shares of Realty Stock from Uncle Sam. Only, his
previous Realty purchases of $3,504 are credited to him
at once. In other words, he has already bought 35
Realty shares and need only pay thenceforth for 140
shares. These in turn are amortized over a 10 year
period, making his annual Realty Stock payments
$1,400 a year or $1 16.66 monthly, at the end of which
time he has 175 shares of Realty Stock representing
actual property that he can keep tax free and foreclosure
free till the end of his days, and never be burdened with
a cent of interest!
Let us say that he stays in Minnesota for three years and
suddenly becomes enamoured of another woman His
wife files suit for divorce and the divorce is granted.
With the sundering of the marriage tie, the homestead
property Stock goes, without redress, to the party to
whom the divorce is granted! For back in the first city,
the sale back to Uncle Sam could not be made unless the
wife was a party to the transaction. And by the same
token, she is compensated for her husband s unfaithful­
ness now by having the Commonwealth Bank automat­
ically allot to her the “R” shares to remain her personal
property until her death. A second marriage will not
invalidate her equity in those “R” shares. Her husband
cannot rush to the bank and get the certificates he fancies
belong to him, because he never is allowed possession
of those certificates at any time. They are always held
by the Federal Bank.
Let us say, however, that there are children.
If the married pair die without issue, the “R” shares are
174
cancelled and cease to exist. They cannot be given
away or bequeathed to any but one’s children. By the
same arrangement with the Commonwealth Govern­
ment that now occurs in will-making, however, a given
piece of property can be passed along in one family
over several generations. That is, there can be a pass­
ing along of the “R” shares, which represent such prop­
erty. But to prevent the building up of large landed
estates, such property is required to be lived in by the
person so enjoying the “R” stock credit, for at least 8
months in the year. If the line runs out, the shares are
cancelled and the property reverts to Uncle Sam.
No property of realty nature can be sold, swapped, bar­
tered, or otherwise disposed of at any time but to the
Commonwealth. Two homestead parcels cannot be di­
rectly traded. If two people have homesteads which
they wish to exchange, they go to the Regional Board
of the district and transfer their properties in a fifteen-
minute operation back to the Government, and without
leaving the Federal Office they turn about and acquire
each other’s properties. If one property is of greater
value than the other—and here is a tremendously im­
portant point!—and a balance remains over, the citizen
may have his “R” credit repaid to him over exactly
the same allotments as to time that were required to
build it up.
Meaning just this: Let us say that Smith has been ten
years paying for an $8,750 property and Jones has been
ten years paying for a $1 7,500 property. They want to
exchange places. Smith wants to acquire Jones’s house
and live in it at a higher cost and Jones wants to live in
Smith’s house at a lower cost.
In that event, Smith subscribes to an additional $8,750
175
block of “R” stock with Uncle Sam. Jones “Surren­
ders” $8,750 of his shares to Uncle Sam and gets the dif­
ference in a higher credit in his bank account. The
Commonwealth will thereupon commence with the com­
ing month to pay back to Jones $73 a month for ten
years, in addition to his regular full Common and Merit
credits, and he may use that “money” for anything else
he chooses to acquire. He cannot have it all in one
lump, however, and if he dies before the Common­
wealth has finished paying it back to him, the balance
remaining unpaid is cancelled.
Under Christian Economics, when a citizen dies, he and
everything connected with him, are as dead as if he had
never existed, except homestead rights which are willed
to his children.
The reason for this exception lies solely in the sentiment
accruing about an old family residence, which is one of
the finest assets for public morale in the eyes ol: the
State. Anything that is fine and spiritual in earthly life
receives first consideration and strongest protection un­
der the Christian Commonwealth. A man may will his
“R” stock increment representing a given piece of prop­
erty, to any child whom he chooses, and bind that child,
or those children, with any stipulations he chooses! But
that is all he can will. And if the children do not occupy
that property themselves, or according to the terms of
the will, in process of time it reverts to Uncle Sam.
176
E HAVE followed through here the case of
a hypothetical young couple. But what
has been written here applicable to them
is doubly applicable to persons owning
rights in homestead property at present.
•I As the Commonwealth takes technical
title to their property, it automatically gives them “R”
credit rating on its books for whatever equity they may
have paid for up to the present. If they still have sums
due to be paid, they merely apply for a sum of “R”
shares equivalent to what they may be owing, and the
bank does the rest in issuing them monthly credits with
instalments deducted each month.
If a man and his wife have their home completely paid
for at the time of the transition from one system to the
other, the Commonwealth issues them a full block of
“R” shares without further ado and protects them
throughout their lives, in the possession of such prop­
erty. They cannot be dispossessed for debt, for there
is no way in which they can get into debt. Even dam­
age suits for personal injuries are adjusted on quite an­
other basis than the present money-confiscation reprisal.
They cannot be dispossessed for taxes, because taxes
have ceased to exist. The Commonwealth Government,
technically owning all the national wealth, does not need
money paid in by the citizens in order to operate. So
taxes are superfluous. The citizen is given absolute
security in his homestead rights, so long as he lives on
the property—a security that truly is security. Only
a foreign invasion and overthrow of the Government
could negate his rights or eject him from that home for
which he has worked and which he has bought and paid
for. 5 ? t?
177
HE amazing thing about the whole scheme
of Christian Economics is its gentle whole­
someness and fairness to all worthy peo­
ple and good citizens. There is no coer­
cion. There is no confiscation.
In other words, there are no injustices!
If a man or a woman works and saves money and puts it
into a home there can be no chance of loss, not even the
item of depreciation to be taken into account. A dollar
saved toward property for living purposes is a dollar
saved forever so long as that person is alive, and he may
go from Boston to Pasadena and find that his Common­
wealth homestead credit is equally as good.
There is no limit, either, to the area of the land ei man
may acquire to live upon, provided his purchases do not
intrude on what is presently to be called the Productive
Domain, and provided he is a sufficiently high “Q” man
to make such acquisitions reasonable and certain of ful­
filment as to payment.
This brings us to two other phases of the Christian
Commonwealth’s functioning: first in regard to agri­
cultural lands—to-wit, farmers, and manufacturing or
productive properties. . . .
178
XII: No More Farm Problem
HE ECONOMICS of the incom­
ing Christian Commonwealth
has the only perfect solution
of the so-called farm problem
that has thus far been devised.
If the truth could only be
known, that solution goes back
over hundreds of thousands of
years. It does not partake of
Socialism. It has nothing to
do with Communism. But it
follows a system and method under which many very
ancient civilizations came to flower. The moment that
any given populace departed from that system, defec­
tion of the State set in and that particular culture began
to disintegrate. Let us see what Biblical Prophecy,
Great Pyramid interpretation and even the Master
Teacher of Galilee Himself, have to suggest to us in the
way of settlement of those great social complications
arising from the improper treatment of those classes
who till the soil.
To consider in clear-eyed and cool-brained logic how to
cure certain basic faults in our economic structure, and
give a “relief” to the farmer that nothing can disrupt
or subvert, let us go back to certain fundamentals of
economics, i *
Let us start with a brief and simple discussion of what
wealth is, and where it comes from.
There is no need for us to think of economics as some
179
monstrous abstraction told in uninteresting columns of
statistics. Economics really is as simple and dramatic
as earning the weekly pay envelope and consulting with
the wife as to how it shall be spent. When we come
to consider economics as applied to the farmer and his
problem, we are introducing ourselves to an equation
in ordinary manufacturing.
Do you get that, and what it implies?
The farmer is really a manufacturer, but with this dif­
ference over other manufacturers who produce their
goods in factories under roofs: he has his raw materials
furnished him absolutely free. He has to maintain no
buying department. He has an inexhaustible store­
house to draw from. He simply goes to that storehouse
and takes out what he needs.
That storehouse, of course, is Nature herself—or to put
it in spiritual terms, the bounty of God Almighty.
Because the city manufacturer is not thus favored,
but has to acquire his raw materials through his pur­
chasing department and pay out a heavy quota of his
capital to provide himself with them, there is a subcon­
scious resentment always within his mind against his
brother-manufacturer who is not thus handicapped.
True, the farmer has to buy seed and fertilizer if he
would manufacture a crop worth harvesting. Eiut in
hundreds of items manufactured out of the soil cn the
farm, the cost of seed and fertilizer is so small in propor­
tion to the sales return that it is no more as an item than
electric power is to the city manufacturer. Many times
the seed does not cost as much as the fertilizer used to
make it germinate, and in a manner of speaking, if the
farmer-manufacturer is canny, the seed costs him noth­
ing but the conservation of a certain portion of his crop
180
from the previous season’s harvest.
This means, translated in terms of the automobile in­
dustry for instance, that Henry Ford could hold back
three or four cars a day from the product sent out to
sales agencies, and have enough raw material to make
fifteen-hundred new cars in his ensuing spasm of pro­
duction. i$ t jfey
If the farmer-manufacturer, on the other hand, had to
buy 1500 bushels of corn in the open market, plant
them as raw stock, and then add the cost of his fertilizer
in order to harvest 3,000 bushels of new corn, and de­
pend for his compensation on the cost of the old as
against his selling-price of the new crop, he and his city
brethren might long since have clubbed their interests
and considered one another’s problems as mutual.
The city manufacturer, therefore, who does business on
an entirely different economic principle, considers the
farmer a mope and a dullard because—even having raw
material supplied to him practically free—he still can­
not “get by” commercially.
The city manufacturer does not stop to realize on the
other hand, that while the farmer-manufacturer is not
pinched and circumscribed at the raw material end of his
business he is squeezed at the sales end. Under present
Water Tank practices, the farmer-manufacturer has
free access to raw materials and if he could be as un­
handicapped in selling his product as Ford is unhandi­
capped in selling automobiles, he could indeed become
a magnate in a mere decade. But he meets his economic
handicap when he tries to get rid of his product. And
he in turn grows to hate his city brethren for advantages
they enjoy which he feels are denied him.
The city manufacturer hates the farm manufacturer be­
181
cause the latter has free raw materials; the farm manu­
facturer hates the city manufacturer because he has un­
circumscribed markets. And of the pair of them, the
city manufacturer is quite the better off, since it really
makes no difference to him what he has to pay for raw
materials if he is not hampered in getting a commensu­
rate selling price for them. Having a store of free raw
materials means nothing to the farm manufacturer if
someone can autocratically dictate his sales prices and
put them down to a figure where the free raw material is
of no real advantage to him.
Let us not forget this basic difference between the two
men. It really is an animosity that is as old as civiliza­
tion—at least in those countries where the Common­
wealth government has never been adopted.
OW there is also another important point
to take into consideration in starting from
fundamentals with the farm problem. It
is the fact too often overlooked or ignored,
especially by our feather-brained financial
“experts,” that everything we use or con­
sume hour by hour making for the experience we call
human living, originally comes from Nature’s store­
house, the planet itself.
We may be sitting at a dinner table in a quarter-million
dollar residence, the board resplendent with cut-glass
and silver, heaped with rich viands to be eaten in dinner
dress made of the costliest fabrics. No matter! The
bricks of the house came out of a claybank, the wood
for its timbers came from trees that grew from the for­
est sod, the linen came from the flax plant, the silver
came up from a mine, and the cut-glass was once pure
182
white sand before being melted in a furnace. As for
the entrees and the roast, they are merely the dead
bodies of animals that ate herbage in order to be fattened
for slaughter, and the silks and satins of our clothes
were spun by the lowly silkworm that subsisted on the
mulberry leaf. Not a single item or article exists in all
civilization today, that has not been derived directly
from one of four industrial classifications:—
Agriculturists, which of course includes lumbermen,
since a tree is nothing but an enormously developed
plant. A* A*
Miners, which of course includes chemists, or people
who dig up metals and minerals from under the soil.
Shepherds, which of course includes stockraisers of all
types of animals that furnish food and clothing.
Fishermen, which of course includes all water dredgers
who seek their increment beneath the surface of the
waters, t# A#
In earlier and cruder states of civilization a fifth class
called Hunters might be added, but today these are
negligible because such a small portion of the population
depends on them for food or pelts, except for purposes
of adornment. They are no longer essential to civiliza­
tion and have blended their former vocations with the
calling of Shepherds.
All basic wealth in the social universe, then, comes from
these four classes. If they do not function human life
either reverts to barbarism—which simply means that
every citizen becomes one of the four, or all four, for
himself—or it snuffs out utterly.
Manufacturing, as we have come to know it, means the
taking of the goods received from these four—who get
them more or less free from the bountiful hand of
183
Nature—and refining them, or combining them, i nto a
million forms and products that variate life on Park
Avenue, Manhattan, from life in the Australian bush.
<| We take a train journey from New York to Baltimore,
or from New York to Pittsburgh, and we find ourselves
being flashed through a vast arena of so-called industry.
We think our country is great because it has a smoky
bedlam of these places where all the foregoing products
are refined, or worked over in different forms. We
imagine that if all America, every square foot of it,
could be filled with these smoking furnaces of industry
all going full-blast, that we should be economically
unconquerable, jfe*
Only a handful of scholars who have cultivated the
trait of not losing sight of the fundamentals of a prob­
lem, in exaltation at a dramatic effect from that problem,
see clearly that if a nation develops a surfeit of fac­
tories for the refinement of goods, it moves the closer
to economic disaster.
There is no socialistic rancor in this against the advent
of machinery as machinery. But those scholars realize
that all these smoking workhouses called hives of in­
dustry are only adding to human wealth as the sum-
total of their operations is considered a part of the
process of taking from Mother Earth and putting a
utilizable article in the hands of the consumer. lit may
be argued that this is what is being done at present, and
practically it seems so. But economically considered,
two separate units are now at work, both conducted
along different lines. The production of raw material,
or the taking of raw wealth from Mother Earth, is one
unit, with its own set of standards. The refining of
that raw material into various manufactured articles is
184
another unit—or score of units—with its own set of
standards and methods of cost accounting. Operating
always separately, they are constantly out of balance.
There is no limit put upon refineries, so to speak, except
the availability of the necessary raw materials. A mil­
lion factories might be erected and yet only one ton of
ore be taken from Mother Earth to supply them with
materials. A million tons of ore may be taken from
Mother Earth and only one factory be available for re­
fining it into such shape that the populace can use it.
This means that the two units are forever at war with
each other. Thus they determine the value of the raw
material, not by the wages paid and thus made available
for mass purchasing power, but by the competition that
exists among the refiners only. Here is brought into
use a foreign and false standard that, like the tacit value
of gold and silver currency, at once upsets the economic
structure, t?
To illustrate in simple fashion, take a tree grown in a
certain man’s forest. He plants the acorn and tends the
sprout. In due time his tree, which he has so carefully
nurtured, reaches a size where it is usable for commer­
cial purposes, and he sells it for a certain sum of money.
Let us say for purposes of our fable that he gets ten
pieces of silver which he puts into a tin cup in the family
clock. Then the tree is cut down and the fellers are paid
five pieces of silver. The tree is transported to the
factory by drayers who get five more pieces of silver.
Whereupon the factory workers cut it and shape it and
paint it, and for these operations they get another ten
pieces of silver. Total, for making finished products
from that tree, thirty pieces of silver. Keep your eye
on that total. It represents all the wealth which that
185
tree in turn represents to civilized society, by existing
for human sustenance purposes at all. . . .
First the major portion goes into a furniture factory. It
is made up into chairs, tables and bedsteads. But other
portions go to other industries, to a toy factory, a
clothespin concern, a wood alcohol distillery. We might
count up fifty industries that take that tree and work
it up into finer and more complicated forms of manu­
facturing. One piece of it scarcely longer than a man’s
thumb is expertly turned, bored and polished, and be­
comes a tobacco pipe in a little forty-foot “factory” a
thousand miles from where the tree was grown.
OW it stands to reason that if that one tree
were the only tree in creation, and it were
not cut down when Nature had finished
evolving it, not a factory wheel among
those fifty industries would turn, not a
man would have work, not a single manu­
factured product would be made. €J This thing hap­
pens, however: as men in those factories take the pieces
of wood and work them up into finer and finer forms,
and paint some of them white, some of them blue, some
of them red—while others polish and varnish, or wax
and lacquer—they declare that they are “increasing the
value” of the wood in that tree by exactly the cost of the
human labor required to bring those finer forms of
products into realization. But this is only true as they
take cognizance of the human effort that has gone to
create the finished product. Bear in mind that I always
say “finished.”
Suppose a croquet stake is finally turned out from some
of the wood in that tree. It comes to one man and he
186
sharpens it. It comes to another and he paints a red
cap about its top. It goes to another man and he paints
an orange band just a trifle lower. When the sixth or
the tenth man has finished adding colors and an eleventh
has varnished it, it is still a stake of wood and can be
used only to be hammered into the sod and have a round
wooden ball driven against it. The same purpose could
be served if a willow bough had been lopped off, peeled
of bark, and driven into the soil with a stone. Those
men say, “No, the croquet stake is more ‘valuable’ in
that we have daubed it with the eight colors and
sharpened its point.”
But no matter how much they claim they have increased
the manufactured value of the stake from a mere stick
of wood, this thing now happens: the croquet set must
be sold. Not only the croquet set must be sold, but the
chairs, tables and bedsteads, the toys, the clothespins,
the wood alcohol, even the tobacco pipe, must also be
sold. In other words, someone must come along and
acquire these articles for money, and actually consume
them. Who is this “someone” to be? Of course it
must be those men in the nation who have been paid
money for creating the article that has resulted. The
original owner of the tree is one, the man who cut it
down is another, the man who hauled it to the sawmill
or the croquet factory is a third, the men who turned it
into balls, mallets and stakes, are fourth, fifth and sixth.
Above and beyond this point, all those who have any­
thing to do with getting that croquet set into the hands
of persons desiring to play croquet, must simply share
in those wages paid to creators, and be given a dole
which comes directly or indirectly from the pay en­
velopes of those “workers.” More of this later. . . .
187
So the manufacturers go to these and say: “See all these
pretty articles we have made from your tree! We have
spent much time, overhead and paint, to get them into
these attractive forms. The sum-total of all these; oper­
ations runs into sixty pieces of silver. If you will there­
fore be so kind as to take sixty pieces of silver out of
all the tin cups in your family clocks, we will let you
have the tree back in its ‘improved’ form.”
“But,” cry the workers and growers of the tree, “ we
received only thirty pieces of silver from you lor the
item of the tree and the wages paid us by you to turn
the tree into utilizable articles. The tree has been cut
into ten thousand little pieces and the paint upon them
looks very pretty. Undoubtedly you manufacturers
should be rewarded with your living expenses, factory
overhead, and profits, while you went to all that trouble.
Nevertheless, thirty pieces of silver is all that we possess
that we can turn back to you. You declare that it
represents only half the tree. So that’s all that we can
acquire.”
“But what shall we do with the other half?” cry the
manufacturers. “We have it all cut and sawed up into
croquet sets and we must get our money out of them
somehow.”
“Why not go and find a group of workers who have ac­
quired a cow and cut it up into short-ribs and sweet­
breads, all beautifully packed in glass jars? They have
thirty pieces of silver received for wages in doing it.
Sell them croquet sets and thus ‘unload’ your surplus on
them.” $ $
The makers of croquet sets believe this to be a good
idea and hasten to those groups who have received thirty
pieces of silver for cutting up a cow that in its sum-
188
total of manufactured costs is held to be worth sixty
pieces of silver. The cow refiners behold the beautifully
painted balls, mallets and stakes, and become croquet-
minded. They take the excess croquet sets off the hands
of the lumber refiners, who at once shriek exultantly,
“See, we have made a profit and business is an exceed­
ingly profitable thing. We first bought a tree and paid
wages to work it up into croquet sets that totaled thirty
pieces of silver. Out of our operations we have got
now sixty pieces. So we are thirty pieces to the good.”
<| And insofar as they themselves are concerned, they
are quite right. But the cow refiners are soon clamoring
to unload their food products so beautifully wrought in
glass jars. They go to their men, to whom they have
paid thirty pieces of silver in wages, and advertise. They
declare they have a whole cow in which there is a pur­
chase and wage investment of thirty pieces of silver, but
which must now bring them a selling price of sixty
pieces, i p ip
“But,” cry the workers who refined the cow, “we cannot
even buy one-half the cow with the money you made
available to us, because we have already given it to the
manufacturers of croquet sets.”
“But that was a perfectly silly thing to do,” cry the cow
refiners. “You let the tree refiners realize a nice 100
percent profit while we are left without any profit what­
soever. We do not even stand to get back the portion of
the cow’s value which we paid you for wages!”
The cow workers shrug their shoulders and say, “Go
find someone who has taken a ton of ore out of the
ground and made it up into wedding rings or steel rails.
Around him must be workers who still have thirty pieces
of silver not yet spent which they received in wages.
189
They may buy your thirty-silver-piece cow fox sixty
silver pieces.”
So the cow refiners send out their salesmen to the ore
refiners and manage to impoverish them from buying
wedding rings or steel rails by filching away their thirty-
silver pieces. The cow refiners are exultant in their
turn. Business is good with them and profits are real
because they possess the extra thirty silver pieces to
count with their hands or deposit in a strong-box. So
tree refiners and cow refiners are strong for “existing
institutions.” i$ f
But don’t overlook the fact that all of it is only the old
water tank filling to overflowing as usual, because
sooner or later this compounding of fictitious values has
got to be met and liquidated. The ore refiners may find
fishermen who will take their excess thirty-silver-piece
metal goods, and so on, till the gamut of all created
products has been reached. The tree refiners then have
to relinquish their “profit” to support the cow refiners
who have no food and cannot eat croquet sets. The
cow refiners have no use for tons of beautiful railroad
rails and no market can be found for that 1 00 percent
surplus. The steel mills close down and there are not
even thirty pieces of silver with which to recompense
the catchers of fish.
“It is a Depression!” cry the newspapers. “But let us
not worry. Prosperity is just around the corner. What
the business world needs most is ‘confidence.’ ”
I submit to you that what the business world needs is
not confidence but sense. It must realize that there is
truly no buying-power in existence but the sum-total
of moneys given in wages to workers of all classes, and
that the workers are the consumers of that which is
190
produced. Of course it is argued that the excess thirty sil­
ver pieces turned over to the tree refiners, the cow refin­
ers, the ore refiners and the fish refiners, which seems to
make business good with them while the transactions are
in progress, are not retained by any of them but at once
passed along for a thousand products, the making or
supplying of which keeps people in work. John D.
Rockefeller or J. P. Morgan cannot use more than one
croquet set at a time, however, or eat more than one
pound of spare-ribs at a meal, or utilize more than a frac­
tion of a ton of iron ore refined into steel articles. Al­
ways bear in mind that these magnates must turn about
and find a market for the surplus which they have ac­
quired. And get their own profit as "dealers.” Whom
do they go to, to find such market, but the original wage
earners? And where has any new money or wealth
come from to recompense them?
Don’t you see, it is all a process at present of "robbing
Peter to pay Paul” ?
“But what’s the solution?” cry the befuddled ones.
“You wouldn’t have manufacturing stop, would you?
You wouldn’t go back to the hand methods of the mid­
dle ages?” £ «
“No, the solution is, to make one unit of all those
workers, instead of pitting them against each other on a
buying and selling basis.
“Say to yourselves: ‘We are 130,000,000 people ma­
rooned here on this island-continent of North America,
entirely cut off by two oceans. We must work and earn
ourselves a living, as well as supply ourselves with com­
forts and luxuries. We must first take a tally of what
all of these marooned people will require for their sus­
tenance from one year to another. Then we must take
191
a tally of our island’s resources. Having divided one
into the other, we know exactly what we must
take.’ Then we say, ‘We need so many acres of the
island planted to trees or wheat, so many acres given
to raising cows; and we must mine so much ore and
catch so many fish. Next we must have so many
croquet-stakes, and so many glass jars of jerked beef.’
Very good! We apportion by an enticing system of
Commonwealth rewards, so many hands to tend the
proper number of trees, so many hands to raise beef and
sheep, so many hands to bring up ores, so many hands
to draw up nets. But these are only one-half of pro­
duction. Those who saw and chop and paint are taken
into consideration along with the rest. Not until the
manufactured product is finished is any notion of values
entertained. Then those goods are distributed back
among those workers according to compensations they
have earned in contributing to production.”
‘‘But that is Socialism, or even Communism! Besides,
how does it apply to the farm problem? What’s the
difference between giving the farmer a free bank ac­
count, and giving him cash subsidies according to laws
of supply and demand?”
“It is not Socialism, because the division of wealth is
not equal, but each according to his talent and industry
as now. It is not Communism, because no rights to
private property are abrogated, and a man has as much
title to what he earns individually, as he has now. But
what you have done is to abolish and discard the vicious
circle of pitting the refiner against the wealth-taker
from Mother Nature—or rather, you have taken the
refiner, or manufacturer, off the wealth-taker’s, or
farmer’s back. You have made all of them unit pro­
192
ducers before the economic law. Furthermore, you
have gauged the farmer’s market by what total con­
sumption awaits it, and he and his family are all taken
into consideration for compensation in all types of
goods, instead of merely those goods which he can buy
with the arbitrary thirty pieces of silver you have first
given him. You have lumped all creators of articles
into the same manufacturing basket, and termed all of
them manufacturers, given them scheduled orders to fill
in an assured, calculated, and stable market.”
‘‘But suppose some farmers are smarter than others, or
work longer and harder?”
“They they have a bigger bank account usable for all
types and kinds of goods, at the Federal Bank.”
“You mean the farmer doesn’t have to give up his farm,
surrender it and go to work for the Government for
credit wages?”
“Certainly not! Why should he? His farm is his own.
He may have paid good money down on it. What moral
right has the Government to step in and take it away
from him, as though he were living in Soviet Russia?
Perhaps, too, he entertains sentimentalities about the
old home place that make him a better citizen spiritually.
The incoming Christian Commonwealth flies fiercely to
the defense of any factors in earthly life that enhance
and increase spirituality. Christian economics would
work out no system that entails hardship or heartbreak
for anyone. That is the procedure of governments or­
ganized and functioning under life’s Dark Forces. All
the Commonwealth government says to the farmer is:
‘In the interests of your own well-being, let us visit you
and make a careful and scientific survey of your farm’s
peculiar potentialities. When that survey is made, we
193
will tell you what crops we can take off your hands at
an absolutely assured market, whether it be trees or
cows for manufacturing refiners to cut up into articles
of comfort or luxury, or whether it be raw milk for the
nation’s babies to consume each 24 hours. You will be
suitably rewarded with bank credits procuring you cloth­
ing, automobiles, radios and what not, as you are indus­
trious and bring in your products to the great District
Depots, for distribution all over the nation where they
may be needed. You own your farm so absolutely that
the Commonwealth will even protect you against any
form of foreclosure from any cause whatsoever so long
as you produce. You are not required to pay a cent of
taxes, since the government is run by men who are
drawing their credits against the sum-total of production
exactly as you are—but according to ability and ef­
ficiency. If your farm is a small one, naturally it has
a limit in the matter of the bank account it can earn
for you—but so has it under the water tank system of
the present. There can be no overproduction or depres­
sion, but always a free flow of goods, because if you
raise too much of one kind you will be shown how it
is productive of a bigger bank account to raise some
other kind, of which there is a shortage—and yon will be
amply rewarded with increased credits for helping to
play the game for the enhancement of the whole people.
No selfish buyers’ associations can come in and dictate
seasonable prices to you, because the public takes all
produce without the slightest worry on your part about
a market. If you want to be slothful, it is just too bad,
but of course you can’t get the fatter credits, or the in­
crements that are coming to your thrifty and hustling
brother farmers. In other words, you are made an in-
194
tegral part of the vast social machinery, not one whit
better or worse than the city manufacturer who takes
your farm products and fashions them into a multiple
variety of items without the slightest antagonism be­
tween you. He is on precisely the same economic level
as yourself, welded in and made a part of the whole pro­
ducing organization, as it were, although he may work
and reside a hundred miles up the railroad. He is taken
off your back economically, or abolished as a separate,
competitive unit telling you how much you shall be
given in order to enable you to buy back your own goods
in the refined status.”
O SAY the Enlightened Ones. And on no
other basis can the farm problem be
solved. If the critic may ask where the
difference comes in, between buying the
farmer’s product for cash under the pres­
ent system, and buying his industry with
Commonwealth bank accounts which he can check
against for finished manufactured goods, the answer is
found in the circumstance, which should not be so con­
sistently ignored, that when the public takes over the
whole product of our natural wealth, arbitrary and false
buying standards are removed as an item in the farmer’s
sales system. When farmers, miners, herdsmen and
fishermen are all considered as Step One in providing
the marooned islanders with a required amount of goods,
whether refined or not, the farmer’s production is geared
to the demands of the whole “factory” without affecting
his remuneration in the slightest. If there is an over­
production of wheat, for instance, in any one year, it
means that the next year the Commonwealth will ask
195
the farmers to switch to a product of which there may
be a dearth. If so be it the nature of his farm will not
permit it, then the Commonwealth says to that farmer:
“Lay off and don’t work this season. But don’t get hot
under the collar about it. You’re not going to suffer
economically because you’re being asked to suspend.
Just let your ground lie fallow and go right on drawing
your same classification credits as last year, since there
is an oversupply which you are merely consuming.
When it is consumed, go ahead and resume operation
as we shall suggest.”
In other words, farming, mining, lumbering, stockrais­
ing, and fishing, are merely the supply departments of
the great national factory producing all the goods which
the employees require in the whole body politic. No
sane factory management would let the purchasing de­
partment load up with a plethora of raw stock which the
machine rooms could not consume nor the sales force
dispose of. The incoming raw material in the properly
superintended factory flows steadily and smoothly up to
the machines. So it would be if all economic antagon­
isms and intimidations, growing out of a lust for fallaci­
ous profits by different commercial castes, were ended.
At the present time, it is as though the manufacturing
and sales forces were an armed camp pitted against the
purchasing department which is running wild without
any responsibility or knowledge of what is going on in
the machine rooms or sales departments. There is an
imbecile avalanche of raw goods one week, and e. tragic
dearth the next. The employees running the machines
are disparaging and fighting the purchasing and stock
departments and then wondering why the whole con­
cern rocks and wobbles periodically. First the purchas­
196
ing and supply departments are on a starvation basis,
then it is the workers upstairs. And little feather-brained
critics arise and howl, when an orderly system for the
whole works is proposed:
‘‘That is regimentation! You mustn’t take away the in­
centive to labor! It is under this rule-of-thumb, every
man-for-himself system that America has grown great!”
Stuff and nonsense! If the national industries were a
factory, and running with an orderly flow of goods
through supply departments, up to machines, out into a
sales department that had a definite and assured market
for its product all known and contracted for in advance,
there would be thrice the incentive to labor. As for the
growth of great America under the crazy-house, devil-
take-the-hindmost system of the past fifty years, we
have no way of measuring how much greater America
would have been if she had discarded it and installed
orderly methods based on Christian common sense!
Because a lot of hair-brained idiots who lack the concen­
tration to “think through” their theories, have from time
to time advocated controlled production and the aboli­
tion of a profit-making and profit-taking structure that
only exists theoretically on the books of those who fond­
ly imagine they have profited by it, all men of sense are
castigated as Jewish Socialists or Red Communists who
declare that America must come to this correct underly­
ing principle.
All this jingoism about the greatness of America under
“free competition” is but camouflaging lunacy, when we
face the facts that up to 1935 our nation had lost 669
billions of dollars in fraudulent stock sales and had
known a period when every bank in the 48 States was
shut tight, and now, in 1939 has one-third of her popula­
197
tion workless or dependent on Relief for bare susten­
ance, with unemployment steadily increasing, and is ut­
terly at a loss as to how to raise the revenues to meet
the sixty-five billion dollar Federal, State and Municipal
debt. it* it*
America—grand old nominal and theoretical republic
that she is—is going bankrupt but doesn’t know it. Her
“free capitalism” has been taken over by a clique of
fifty wealthy Hebrews, most of them from Hamburg
and Berlin. Her factories are running part time. Her
looms are idle. Her farmers are wandering the streets
of five thousand small towns trying to swap loads of
corn for overalls and gasoline. The great Ponzi Game
that America’s industrialists have been playing with
themselves since 1870 has suddenly had its hand called
by the Higher Law. That Higher Law has suddenly de­
manded, “Just where are your profits coming from to
meet these extraordinary dividends you thought you
could pay indefinitely?”
“But the depression is world-wide!” declare its apolo­
gists. it* it*
Very good! Let us take a look then at the freakish and
suicidal practice known as manufacturing.
Let us see whether any of the other nations of the world
have been able to play the Great Ponzi Racket mere suc­
cessfully than ourselves. . . .
198
XIII: Taming Our Machines
OW ARE we going to carry on
manufacturing, with its mil-
lion-and-one complicated and
specialized processes through­
out the entire nation, if there is
no actual currency in existence
to compensate present owners
of factories, their stockholders
and bondholders, when the
Commonwealth acquires them,
and no weekly payroll system
to pay employees for that which they do? <J How can
the Commonwealth possibly acquire all the nation’s in­
dustries without its amounting to confiscation, and what
possible incentive or enticements can be held out to
workmen to labor in them when all people everywhere
draw a minimum living-dividend on their Common
Stock in the Commonwealth anyhow?
These are questions that loom large in the minds of peo­
ple who are not necessarily defenders of our current
Water Tank methods but who honestly hesitate to in­
dorse any proposals that lead toward regimentation, or
toward an increase of political bureaucracy, or toward
a paternity in government that provides a guaranteed
dole for drones.
The libraries of the world contain miles of shelves filled
with books that endeavor to advance man-made theories
for the settlement of such problems.
Truth, however, is always simple. Taken backwards or
199
forwards, or up and down, it reads the same way. There
is only one correct way for earthly men to govern them­
selves and their institutions. When it is arrived at, it
can be expounded in a handful of paragraphs of two-
syllable words.
The libraries of the world contain miles of books on
theology, or man-made concepts of what God is, what
He does, and what He thinks. The Great Galilean
came along and took about twenty minutes of one: after­
noon to preach the Sermon on the Mount. It contained
everything of importance which needed to be said about
God, or what He is, or what He does or thinks. And it
was all so amazingly simple that humankind has been
1900 years trying to get over the shock of it.
There are men now living here in America who have
reason to know that the same Great Brain that boiled
down all the libraries on theology into the Sermon on
the Mount, has also boiled down all the complicated and
involved processes of man-made governments into a
simple system that the merest child can understand, pro­
vided all previous notions of how the public business
has been conducted are discarded and the government is
regarded as being the whole people acting for the mutual
good of the whole.
This last provision sounds dangerously like Socialism or
Communism, of course, because it has been employed
abortively and subversively until people are cynical
about its meaning anything else. Never having had a
truly Christian system of government proposed to them,
they cannot grasp how the whole people can act mutual­
ly for the good of the whole without destroying the in­
tegrity of the individual and his personal possessions.
But the methods of Christian economics no more destroy
200
the integrity of the individual than the Sermon on the
Mount destroys the religious integrity of the individual.
“Do unto your neighbor as you would have him do unto
you,’’ does not destroy the integrity of the individual.
Rather, it enhances it.
Let us see, therefore, how the Commonwealth would
cut straight through to the heart of these industrial
quandaries and bring up concise, workable answers with­
out the slightest wrong being inflicted on any person of
any social caste which now exists. To make this new
principle quite clear, let us go back to our oft-used par­
able of the twenty gold prospectors in the desert who
have found and staked out twenty separate gold claims.
No one of these prospectors has the resources to de­
velop his claim alone. So they meet together and incor­
porate for one million dollars. Each of the twenty re­
linquishes his personal holdings, or actual possession of
private property, for $50,000 worth of stock in the one
concern. This $50,000 worth of stock represents a one-
twentieth interest in the whole, and the stock, instead
of actual possession of the property, is held by the in­
dividual prospector. No one in his senses, in the twen­
tieth century, considers such a transaction as any form
of confiscation, Socialism, Communism or regimenta­
tion. Very good!
Now let us carry our gold mine analogy one step further
in order to explain to puzzled people the social operation
called manufacturing.
Let us say for purposes of our illustration that these
twenty gold prospectors have formed their million-dollar
mining corporation—since $50,000 multiplied twenty
times equals the million of capitalization—and each re­
ceived fifty thousand shares of stock of a par value of
201
$1 each. They are still no better off than before unless
their claims are worked. But to work them they need
expensive mining machinery, to obtain and operate
which was their first reason for joining together in this
little industrial democracy out on the desert.
They say to one another as all men say in business cor­
porations at present, “We each hold 50,000 shares of
our company’s stock, representing the amounts of our
holdings in the whole. But to get the machinery that
we need, and operate it after we get it, requires some
sort of arrangement with people who produce machin­
ery in their own turn, as well as with laborers who will
help us operate it. Suppose we set aside a certain num­
ber of our shares the increment from which will reim­
burse such machine makers for supplying it to us. As
for the laborers, we will consider making them one with
us in the operations of the mine as a whole, only the
ratios will be slightly different among us, as the men
are talented or industrious for our purposes. Consid­
ered as a complete unit, however, we will pay out to all
of us approximately what we take from Mother Elarth.”
Forthwith all being agreed, they do this. They apply
to certain Easterners who make machinery and lay down
their proposition. But they give a name to the: stock
thus contributed for specific purchases of machinery. It
is no longer “common” stock among all of them. They
label it “preferred” stock because it is rendered exclu­
sively to accomplish a specific purpose.
202
ET US assume, however, that after a sale
has been effected with those Easterners
and their money made available for doing
what those prospectors could not do sing­
ly—because those Easterners would not
have risked their funds with one lone pros­
pector who might walk off with them some day when he
got tired of gold mining—the machinery is acquired and
installed and all is made ready for the employees to
move in and begin bringing up the gold.
Thereupon a terrible misfortune seems to befall those
twenty prospectors constituting the incorporated com­
pany. One of them comes racing across the burning
sands one afternoon with a batch of letters that he has
just received at the nearest post office.
“Boys,” he cries, “we’re sunk. Because we’re located
away off here on the desert where there are no banks,
grocery stores, or movie theaters, there’s not a single
laborer whom we can persuade to exile himself with us.
All have refused, and here are their letters of refusal.
We’ve got our machinery installed and are all ready to
commence operations. But without men to run our
hoists and boring equipment and stamping mills, we
might just as well not have incorporated and bought it
at all.”
So these men take counsel together, and one of them
arises in the meeting and cries:
“Stuff and nonsense! We’ve got machinery, haven’t
we? And we’re all practical mining men. If we hadn’t
clubbed together, and if each of us had possessed the re­
sources to buy his own machinery, with its aid we would
have gone down into the earth ourselves and multiplied
our own efforts a hundredfold as individuals. Instead,
203
therefore, of expecting imported laborers to work this
machinery for us, suppose we find our old overalls and
shirts and each man go down into his own shaft and
bring up what he can with the aid of this community
machinery to help him. We’ll be independent of im­
ported laborers by doing as much of the work as we’re
able to do, ourselves. That will likewise mean that we
won’t be confronted with any payrolls. We can keep
all we bring up, among ourselves, for a twentjr
-way
split, except for the amount of gold we have to send
East to pay the rentals we’ve promised those people
for funds from their savings bank accounts.”
‘‘But mines have always been worked by hired laborers
in every age in recorded history!” cries another pros­
pector. “It’s unthinkable that we, having formed this
corporation to get capital and machinery, should be de­
graded back to the status of sweaty gold-diggers our­
selves! If we actually have to come to that, we’ll be
‘tipping over existing institutions!’ The whole mining
world will call us Socialists and Communists.”
They consider this last gravely, and actually give it
credence. They have set a purely hypothetical value to
self-esteem on their own functions in the corporation
and call it an "existing institution” which cannot be
tampered with else somehow or other the whole sanctity
of corporations will be defiled and defeated.
Because those who form corporations and rent capital
and install machinery have always been able to secure
slave labor for wages, or a pittance of the actual gold
brought up, a conditioned reflex—as we say in psychol­
ogy—has been built up in the minds of all classes that
it is somehow inimical to the existing order, and that
the whole system of economics will be undermined if
204
they are obliged to turn to and run their own machinery.
•I Yet here are these twenty men actually in a stalemate,
because the fact remains that slaves will not cross the
burning desert and work for the pittance they are willing
to relinquish to them. There is absolutely no escape
from the grim circumstance that if they do not turn in
and run their own machinery, no gold is ever going to
come to the surface through their efforts.
It is a sickening condition, they imagine, and one of
their number forthwith starts to write a book about it.
Of course, before they clubbed together and formed
this troublesome corporation, each man was wearing a
sweaty shirt and expected always to wear a sweaty shirt.
Each one of them was fully prepared to spend the rest
of his days digging up gold as he might find it alone.
Before their incorporation, none of them considered it
beneath his dignity to toil for himself and possess all he
made. But with the birth of the corporation, they think
they have also changed their social caste to such an ex­
tent that it is unethical for themselves to work all the
splendid machinery that happens to be waiting for the
switching on of power.
“ It has never been done!” they cry over and over, and
everything remains at a dead stop until the fact pene­
trates their befogged understandings that their location
on this inaccessible desert has set up new conditions
that demand the breaking of silly precedent.
They argue and they haggle, and suffer mental torment.
Writers on distant city papers make the trip to their
property and publish long columns of discussion about
the situation. Finally one man, driven by economic
necessity, sneaks away from the rest, gets into his old
shirt and corduroy trousers, and says:
205
“Let them debate the sanctity of corporate procedure to
their hearts’ content. I need some gold to send out for
personal groceries. I’m going to use one of these bor­
ing machines and bring up enough nuggets to carry me
over this period of sociological discussion.”
Which he does. He throws on power and begins to
bring up gold. He stamps out and washes quite a sack­
ful. Suddenly another man, wandering about the new
corporation’s holdings, hears the whine of powe:r ap­
plied to machinery, and comes running up to the first.
“Hey! What do you think you’re doing?” he cries.
“Getting out gold!” the second responds.
“You can’t come down here by yourself and operate
the machinery and get out gold! That can only be done
by direction of the Board!”
“Yeah?” retorts the sweaty worker. “Well, take a look.
I’m getting it out, and while you fellows are arguing, I
purpose to ship it to the railroad and buy myself gro­
ceries.”
“It’s impossible!” wails the first. “It never has been
done in human history. You’re a Socialist! You’re a
Communist!” Jfej*
“Call me anything you choose. All I know is, while
you birds are gabbing about corporate ethics and wheth­
er or not it’s never been done, I’m doing it! How do
you like that?”
"Don’t you know you’re tipping over existing institu­
tions? Don’t you know you’re a dangerous visionary?”
"I know I’m a man with a stomach, who’s not too proud
to bring up his own gold out of our general holdings if
he can’t hire men to do it for him so that he can loll in a
fancy office and smoke a big cigar. If we hadn’t formed
the danged old corporation, I’d have been able to bring
206
up ten dollars’ worth of gold a day with my pick and
shovel. The corporation made this machinery possible,
true! By using it, whether you fellows like it or not, I
find I can personally stamp out $150 worth of gold a
day. By putting my pride in my pocket and getting
busy, I’m $ 150 a day ahead of the game. So go on back
to your wrangling about existing institutions. You’re
holding up the works.”
The second man hot-foots it back to his brother pluto­
crats and spreads the devastating news that one of their
number has sneaked off and turned “Socialist” because
he sees no answer to the labor problem but getting busy
and running the machinery himself. The others are ap­
palled and refuse to believe him for a time. But soon
they traipse out to where the heretic is laboring and
marvel that God is letting him live or that Nature is conr-
tinuing to keep his heart beating, since he has done
something that has been taboo according to the laws
of the industrial system since man invented his first
machine. i$ t t#
Hunger is biting sharply, however, and off over the sky­
line are cities with grocery stores that will cheerfully ex­
change goods for the yellow metal that may be recov­
ered. When the other nineteen men perceive that the
twentieth man doesn’t drop dead and doesn’t seem to
be violating any natural law by actually laboring for
himself with machinery merely to increase his efforts,
one by one they pussyfoot away to their shacks and don
their prospecting clothes again. Shamefacedly each
finds a mill, now equipped with the new machinery, and
throws on the power. To the stupefaction of all of them,
at the end of the first day each man has $150 worth of
gold in his own right, instead of the $10 worth he would
207
have had, had the corporation not been formed nor the
machinery acquired.
At the end of the week they discover that among them
they actually possess $18,000 worth of gold which they
have taken from Mother Earth by their own efforts,
whereas the previous week they had nothing. They try
it a second week and have $36,000 worth in the com­
mon storehouse. Still God doesn’t strike them dead,
and so long as there are no outsiders around to shriek
“Socialists!” or “Communists!” for multiplying their
individual efforts by machinery, they decide to continue
the arrangement indefinitely, or until their community
is wealthy enough to build the stores and movie theaters
that will attract slaves to do the same labor for a pittance.
<| But the slaves do not appear. A month passes, a year,
five years. Each man is wealthy beyond dreams of
avarice, and not a cent of wages has been paid. The
news finally leaks out. It creates a sensation. Econo­
mists with brains half-way down their backbones, make
the tortuous trip across the desert to stand around and
marvel. ip ip
“How it’s done is beyond us!” they cry in despair.
“These twenty men, with the assistance of the machin­
ery they installed, are actually mining nearly a million
dollars’ worth of gold per year. Their preferred stock
increment has long since amortized the cost of the ma­
chinery and it has reverted back to them and been ap­
portioned.” ip ip
“What’s strange about it?” asks the prospector whose
hungry stomach started all of them running their own
equipment, i p ip
“But you’re doing it all without spending a cent of cap­
ital in wages! In fact, you’re actually running your cor­
208
poration without money and making nearly a million
dollars a year among you!”
“Sure! Each of us in the company is simply doing his
own share and therefore doesn’t need to pay himself
money except as he needs food. And he can always
swap a portion of his minings for provisions!”
“But you simply must require money and wage earners.
All corporations do. You can’t operate industry with­
out money. It’s unthinkable!”
“How would we use money even if we had it?” the first
prospector asks. “The mine properties we found and
staked out belonged to all of us in the beginning. We
didn’t import this machinery to sit around in idleness,
smoke expensive cigars and listen to the groans of oth­
ers toiling. We imported this machinery to do collec­
tively what we couldn’t do singly—that is, increase our
individual earning capacities as men. Persons working
for themselves don’t need wages. Why should they pay
themselves wages for working for themselves ? What a
perfectly silly process!”
But the economists simply cannot grasp it. They have
conditioned reflexes worn in their brains by always hav­
ing associated themselves with persons who have been
able to secure slaves to operate their machines for a pit­
tance of what they produced. Instead of giving them
that pittance in the actual goods those workers made,
they have paid those workers in golden disks. Because
if they paid them in goods, those workers might sooner
or later start thinking: “By what law or logic do we
bring up fifteen tons of this precious metal and let the
owners of the machinery keep fourteen tons of it simply
because of their ownership, while we only get one ton?”
The minted disks of metal, called dollars, camouflage
209
this imbecile procedure, and so “they have always been
necessary,” and industry cannot work without them.
The fact that the economists cannot see the obvious,
however, does not alter the fact that those prospectors
go right on working and piling up golden ore, and get­
ting all that they make themselves. Then finally this
extraordinary thing happens. . . .
HE wage slaves who were formerly offered
the working of the machinery, hear about
the owners’ operating the mine and cry
out against them: “Wait a minute! What’s
going on over there on the desert? You
owners have no right to get rich so, by thus
ignoring us. Stop your self-labor on your own proper­
ties at once!”
“But we offered you work five years ago," protest the
incorporators, “and you refused it.”
“Never mind what we refused. If owners of other things
than gold mines suddenly see how profitable it is to you
as owners to do your own work, and how free you are
from labor troubles, they may take it into their heads to
fire all their employees and run their machines them­
selves. Then what would become of us?”
“We’re not interested in that,” declare the incorporators.
“Go away and leave us alone.”
“The devil we will! We have a system that must be
maintained. You are Socialists, Communists, tippers
over of existing institutions! Give us work, or we’ll
come over this desert in a mob and heave you off your
own properties.”
“But can’t you see, gentlemen, that this whole nation
can be shifted into the corporate form merely by the
210
scratch of a pen, and all of you become working stock­
holders in all the business that is done anywhere within
the public domain, precisely as we have demonstrated
to our rich profit right here in our mine?”
“No, of course we can’t,” the laborers protest. “Who
ever heard of such a thing? Has it ever been done in
human history? We tell you it would be against human
nature to attempt it.”
“Why is it against human nature?”
“W-well, whole armies of people wouldn’t work at all,
if they owned shares in such a corporation—granted we
could persuade the present owners of such industries to
relinquish their holdings.”
“But we incorporators of this gold mine have worked.
It was to our advantage, in fact, to work as hard as we
could. We have simply got all that we produced from
our own properties, instead of giving away a portion of
it in wages to people who would do the work for us.”
Under the Christian Commonwealth, of course, a por­
tion will be given to laborers at the source; but not so
much in wages, as in living conditions.
Still the laborers cannot see it. They have been age­
long victims of an industrial habit, and a reflex psychol­
ogy. “Besides,” they argue, “we couldn’t make present
employers turn their industries into the corporate form
and let the whole people receive what they make. You
prospectors didn’t have to consult anyone in the begin­
ning. The property was yours to operate as you saw fit.”
“But,” retorts the gold miner, “the selfish rights which
those employers have always held were set aside without
complaint during the world war, were they not? Manu­
facturers and employers turned to and produced goods
on a sort of Great Corporation basis when those goods
211
were needed by the whole people to whip Germany.
No manufacturer who was worth his salt as a man and
a patriotic citizen protested because his plant was com­
mandeered by the government and turned into a war in­
dustry. Such owners and manufacturers even cancelled
their own remunerations and worked for one dollar a
year. True, workers got high wages for their services,
but the really big propelling factor was the enthusiasm
to do their bits that the war might be won. Now why
on earth can’t the whole people do the same thing per­
manently as a peace time program, but instead of de­
molishing their goods in three months of armed strife,
turn about and distribute them among themselves as a
whole? Isn’t the difference purely one of psychology?”
“But in peace time,” speaks up one of the laborers, “em­
ployers expect to exploit the market for goods and take
big profits. A war is an emergency. After the danger
to the nation is passed, we must return to a basis of
rugged individualism.”
“Why?” t?
“Because only in that way is human character de­
veloped.”
“So? Do you mean to tell me and my nineteen partners
in this gold mining corporation that our characters have
suffered by buckling down and doing our own work in­
stead of continually wrangling with laboring elements
like yourselves? Go find a first-class muddy creek and
jump into it. I tell you we’ve had character increments
come to us that we would have missed entirely if we’d
stayed in our offices and smoked big cigars. Go ask
any of my associates!”
“All this argument is Utopian,” snaps the labor leader.
“If what you say were carried out all over America, in
212
every industry the people would be working for them­
selves, and that would be Communism. And we won’t
have Communism. It’s un-American! It’s regimen­
tation!” £& is t
“Who’s talking anything about regimentation? We
only happen to be each receiving the same increment in
this mine because in the beginning before we realized
we had to do our own work, we chanced to divide our
stockholdings equally among ourselves. But we’ve long
since had to divide up the various kinds of work among
us, according to our talents. For instance, John Wil­
liams now keeps our books while Joe Smith looks after
the running of the power plant. So we pool all the ore
we mine and divide it. But it wouldn’t be divided equal­
ly if our common stock holdings were not the same.
What I’m trying to make you see is that we fellows own­
ing this mine receive a one hundred per cent return from
the ore we dig up. When you boys refused to come out
here to work for us five years ago, you really did us the
biggest favor it was within your power to do. You in­
troduced us to the practical demonstration that trying to
live off the difference between what we paid you and
what we got for our ore was a great big South Sea Bub­
ble of Chance. Under the system on which we went
forward, we’ve avoided all money troubles and we’ve
enjoyed in full what we’ve taken from God’s earth. Now
you come and try to tell us we’re all wrong, and that
it’s in God’s scheme of things that we turn our property
over to you to work while we do nothing but look on
and you do only as little as you can to keep us from pro­
testing that you’re being paid too much. Go back to
town and try to get the realization through your thick
skulls that there isn’t and never has been one whit of
213
difference between the whole one hundred and thirty
million citizens in these United States and us twenty
men who found ourselves with a machine-equipped gold
mine but no hands but our own to run it. Instead of this
little area of desert, think of the whole area of the Unit­
ed States as a desert. Instead of our limited mining
machinery, just enlarge your thinking to make it repre­
sent all the machinery within the corporate boundaries
of the forty-eight States at present. You will find that
the principle works with the same staggering simplicity.
But you’re all fearful of one another, just as we twenty
men might all have been fearful of one another and re­
fused to work unless every other man did his darnedest,
if hunger and dwindling supplies hadn’t compelled some
of us to run a little of the machinery personally—and
induced the others to follow suit in self-preservation.
“It’s against human nature!” those laborers start to
argue again. “It’s Utopian. It won’t work because the
owners won’t give up!”
“What made them ‘give up’ to the sovereign people dur­
ing the late war? If any manufacturer told the govern­
ment that it couldn’t have his plant, what happened to
him?”
“He was arrested and jailed as giving aid and comfort
to the enemy.”
“Is there any difference between the people’s being killed
by the guns of German raiders, and killing them by slow
starvation from empty stomachs? If the populace is
now perishing because the owners won’t give up in
order that the Great Corporation may function, aren’t
the owners in the end going to suffer just as much as the
populace? Don’t they get security in which to operate
all their plants, and patent rights to monopolistic prac-
214
tices called franchises, from the sovereign powers of the
people who are really their workmen? If the whole
people decide to fight a war against industrial starvation
and periodic depression, what manner of force can the
owners fall back on, to defend them in their arrogant:
proprietorships?” tSf
“It’s Utopian. It’s never been done! It’s against hu-;
man nature!” the laborers mumble parrot-like, over and
over. £ « 1 \
Poor fellows! Those conditioned reflexes have been
worn in their brains by crafty exploiters over so many
generations, that grasping their sovereign powers by
bloodless and lawful legislation is quite outside the car
pacity of their thinking equipment.
And so they commit sabotage and all manner of person­
al reprisals, until the twenty “regimented” gold miners
set them to work for only an idiotic fraction of what
they take from the ground.
“It’s quite all right for the owners to have the differ­
ence,” say the now satisfied laborers. “They have the
investment and the overhead to meet. They have to
find the market and bear the selling expense.”
The twenty gold miners are thereafter forced to become
plutocrats. In due time they grasp that the wages paid
to their men are one-fifteenth of what they dig up, and
the cost of overhead, investment charges, arid selling ex­
penses, only two-fifteenths. So they pocket the 'dif-l
ference between these three-fifteenths and fifteen-fif­
teenths,—or twelve-fifteenths.
Their daughters travel to Europe on the twelve-fif­
teenths, and become society snobs and marry titles. And
their sons smash up sport airplanes and Rolls-Royces.
Only a wave of racketeering and extortioning interferes
215
with the full enjoyment of this twelve-fifteenths. But
they say:
“Racketeering is a natural product of the times and a
natural aftermath of the war, and we have had the
Eighteenth Amendment repealed anyhow with a new
administration. Besides, if God wanted us to have any
other worldly system, He would long ago have sent it to
us. So all life must be hotsy-totsy, and let us damn all
clear thinkers as radicals on principle.”
HE foregoing Fable of the Twenty Pros­
pectors may be lengthy, but it should clear­
ly expound reasonable answers to the
question now being put forward: “How
are we going to tame our machines and
make them our servants instead of our
masters?” tf Industry may seem complicated, when we
ride between New York and Philadelphia and note the
ten thousand smoking factories turning out every con­
ceivable variety of goods. But the principle beneath all
industry is as simple as the original predicament of the
twenty miners on the desert—or the Sermon on the
Mount.
Every man, from a person like Henry Ford down to the
humblest worker in a Pennsylvania mine, will be com­
pensated with monthly allowances at the Commonwealth
bank according to his talents and earning capacity. But
the fundamental principles of all industry, whether on a
spot of desert, throughout a national continent, or upon
an island in the sea, will be paramount: That a nation’s
industries exist to provide goods for all its people ac­
cording to their capacities to consume, not according to
the amount of gold or silver tokens, called buying power
216
or market, permitted by a group of alien debt merchants
who find a way to hoard those tokens periodically and
thus bring all industry under their control.
Henry Ford once declared that it should be illegal for
any one man to earn more than $1,000,000. No one
recognizes more than Ford himself, to what pernicious
uses swollen wealth may be put to ruin the State as well
as jeopardize the very lives of its citizens. No one wants
to penalize a man like Ford for being smart, or for be­
ing allowed to receive more than does a telephone line­
man or a cook. Each should be remunerated according
to his talents and ambition. But enticements should
be provided so that after the amount of income that can
be used, has been attained, such a man’s ambition will
be turned away from the mere piling up of dollars and
into channels that make him a subject of public adula­
tion for other talents, commensurate with his industrial
record. £ ? t ? \
The interest on one million dollars at six per cent an­
nually is $60,000. If Mr. Ford meant what he said, then
he wished to go on record as saying that he considered
that $60,000 a year ought to buy an individual all the
luxuries of civilization which modern life has to offer
him. ± «
The imminent Christian Commonwealth is even more
generous. It says, “The highest financial return which
a man should receive at the very top of the social and in­
dustrial structure, is $100,000 a year.” That is as much
as saying that fortunes ought to be circumscribed when
they reach $1,600,000. And why not?
Fortunes over that sum are as much of a worry and a
responsibility to maintain and conserve, as they are
profitable in increment.
217
The ironical fact remains that today, however, a preda­
tory, antiquated system of economics is confiscating and
debauching all our American fortunes until imminent
ruin is staring the so-called millionaires of the nation, in
the face. Where is the “capitalist”—another archaic
word!—or industrialist today, with a sane brain in his
head, who wouldn’t eagerly swap his present jeopardized
gains and undermined fortunes, no matter what they
may be, for an absolutely assured and publicly guaran­
teed six percent income on $1,600,000?
Those who say that the present owners wouldn’t “give
up,” might be astounded at what might happen if the
proposal could be made to America’s millionaires before
this depression gets worse. That is, provided they could
be absolutely assured that they were to draw six per cent
on $1,600,000 without a hitch, from 1940 to the day of
their deaths.
And this applies to stockholders and bondholders in such
industries as well!
The process of getting onto the new basis need not be
one whit more cumbersome, confusing, or “unfair,”
than was the process of the Government’s requisitioning
the nation’s industries during the war. Only, the Com­
monwealth incorporation would make it a permanent
turn-over, and present owners of industries and their in­
vestors would simply exchange their present corpora­
tion securities—at their current sales value, or the value
at which they are negotiable in the market under normal
conditions—at the time the Great Corporation goes into
effect, for Preferred Stock of an equal value as to divi­
dends or credits in the Government—with the present
radicals kicked out and men of Calvin Coolidge’s con­
servatism restored.
218
This exchange is to continue in force so long as any
security-owning citizen remains alive. This is in order
that no injustice shall be done the so-called rich any
more than the so-called poor. But at the death of the
security owner, all such benefits and credits are auto­
matically cancelled. And why not? The children of
the rich, who squander their lives in squandering for­
tunes they never earned but were born into by a kind
of karmic luck, will be kept from actual starvation like
the offspring of any motorman or school teacher. It is
up to them to make their own way in a metamorphosed
nation according to talent and industry.
At the present time the practice is, “from shirtsleeves to
shirtsleeves in three generations.” Under Christian
economics it will be, “from shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves
every generation!” And the only persons to protest at
such fairness to the individual would be the pampered
offspring who resent the prospect of having to stroke for
themselves. But they are drones now—without any
rancor in the epithet.
The great problem in such an industrial transition, or
rather, such a national incorporation of all the people’s
assets, is equitably grading the various trades, labors and
professions so that each citizen has the opportunity guar­
anteed him to forge ahead according to industry and
ability, i *
219
XIV: Determining Each Man’s Worth
NLESS we as a generation “see
sense” very quickly in this
matter of taming our machines,
we are certain to experience
an industrial stalemate that
may result in all our machines’
being abruptly and insanely
destroyed. Even the veriest
tyro in economics can discern
that if we go on forever in­
venting labor-saving machines,
without the substitution of some such system as
the Christian Commonwealth for the present wage-pay­
ing arrangement, the time is at hand when no one will
have any money to buy their products at all. Again I
say, the customers for the products of those machines,
taken in the accumulate, are the operators of those ma­
chines—the great rank and file of the citizenry. Invent
machine after machine that requires no wages, and
where is the buying power to come from to pay for such
goods? i?
Since 1932, we have been following the idiotic proce­
dure of borrowing vast sums, in bond issues, from the
owners of those machines, which the government has
parceled back to their operators in the form of federal
doles. The nation is blundering along on this sort of
unsound revenue, somehow believing that if it continues
long enough, universal buying power will be restored
and the laws of both economics and logic be defeated.
220
Of course, universal buying power might be restored if
enough money were so released to our twenty-two mil­
lion improvident or jobless—a sum exactly equal to
what had piled up for such investment in government
securities by the practice of taking bogus or mythical
profits. But no such practice is the thing being done.
The sums being parceled out are scarcely enough to
keep body and soul together, for individuals, let alone
whole families. It is just enough to keep our bedeviled
masses from breaking out in violent revolution. Actu­
ally most of such money has been spent long before it
is received. It travels right back into the water tank
banks, who proceed to lend it again to the government
—always with an added interest charge—which dis­
tributes it again on the same niggardly, quasi-starvation
basis. Now does any person in his senses argue that
such methods will restore lost buying power merely be­
cause they continue for an indefinite length of time?
The answer is, of course, that the “brilliant” intellects
behind all the “relieving” are by no means maneuvering
to put the nation back on a prosperity basis. Those of
us who have extensively probed the motives for what
is in progress in high places, have long since come to
recognize that it was all summed up in the tongue-slip
of the fiery little Jew who leaped on a Brooklyn high-
school platform not long since when the city’s teachers
were about to dispense a voluntary fund for free lunches
to emaciated children. “You won’t dispense that fund,”
he insulted them by declaiming, “the harder ve make the
suffering for the parents of those children, the quicker
do they embrace the beauties of Communism!”
The “beauties of Communism” indeed! Out of 71
great “advisers” to the Chief Executive in Washington
221
in 1934, filling the highest and most responsible posts in
the federal government, 52 of them were stigmatized by
their own public utterances at some time or other as be­
ing either open advocates of Jewish sovietism for the
United States, or already associated in undercover ways
with Communistic interests! And now in 1939, some
275 Jews are ensconced in key positions at the Capital,
aided and abetted by their satraps in other and equally
strategic positions, even in the Cabinet.
Is it difficult to grasp why any gains that are being made
in industry seem to be made in spite of these “relief”
measures instead of because of them?
The idea obviously is to impress the American people
with the fact that all these legislative palliatives are
doomed to failure and nothing remains indeed but to try
“the beauties of Communism” . . . a cold-blooded, well-
thought-out plan for inveigling the preponderance of
our Nordic Christian stock into a government system
that shall be controlled by a little handful of quasi-
Orientals at the top and the aforesaid 50 million children
made hired hands on their own lands within the present
generation. Jfcj*
If this Communistic coup is successful and the Amer­
ican people awaken some morning to the fact that it is a
stark reality, and rise up in a bloody body and extermi­
nate the perpetrators, what then? Going back to Water
Tank Capitalism will not lead the way out. Only the
Christian Commonwealth remains, and the puritanic
sanity of Christian economics.
“But,” declares someone in the back of my audience,
“suppose we concur with you that this incorporating of
our Commonwealth is both feasible and practical, and
does give a wholesome alternative to either Communism
222
or Socialism. Just how do the leaders of the Christian
Commonwealth mean to determine each man’s worth
to the incorporated State? In other words, who is to be
the arbiter as to what each man or woman worker is
worth? Today, under the old system, supply and de­
mand in employment sets the wage. But are we to take
it that there will be no such supply and demand when
all of us can work or not, as we please, according to our
satisfaction with our $83 a month? Just what standard
dictates that a bricklayer may draw ten dollars a day
and Henry Ford one-hundred thousand per year, and
who sets it up?”
HE question is logical. And I will answer
quickly who, or what, sets it up and gauges
it: The same agencies that truly are re­
sponsible for it today! fif Do you think,
friend-in-the-back-of-the-audience, t h a t
supply and demand truly determine the
prevailing compensation which the arts, crafts, profes­
sions and trades receive at present? If that were so,
right at this moment there would be such a glut of labor
in these United States that employers could hire men at
one dollar per day. Indeed there are tens of thousands
of men at this moment who would count it a Godsend
to be allowed to work, at any sort of labor, for one dollar
per day—provided they got it. No, the idea that supply
and demand dictate the compensation of labor in this
country is quite as fallacious—and general—as the
equally tragic notion that profits are actual and perma­
nent simply because one has for the moment received
more for an article than he happened to have paid for it.
C| Standards for the compensation of labor in this nation
223
and in every modern nation worthy the name, are de­
termined by the classifications of such workers them­
selves, within their own circumscribed fields of opera­
tion, enforced by collective bargaining with employers,
with the strike as the reprisal for noncomformity on the
employer’s part, and the whole recognized in water tank
economics, as the Trade Union movement!
It is the banding together of workers in economic asso­
ciation for the purpose of forcing from a given field of
labor every last cent of remuneration that such field can
disgorge and still maintain its existence after taking all
other expense items into account, that standardizes and
gauges what any given class of workmen in this country
shall be paid.
Today the labor of America is almost completely union­
ized. Such unionization exists and is kept in operation
for no other purpose than to determine what shall be
paid its member workers and how the standards can be
maintained despite any and all disruptions. True, Amer­
ican trade unionism is often selfishly led. This is not
the place to argue the ethics or motives of its leadership.
But the fact remains that any industry that is well and
regularly paid, is strongly unionized, drastically con­
trolled from within its own ranks, and in a position to
dictate to the rest of society just what it considers itself
worth to the whole industrial body. What does that
mean in essence?
It means that we are confronted in this world of sixes-
and-sevens—in industry as elsewhere—with the unac­
countable phenomenon that groups as groups have a
strange capability for governing themselves, determining
their maximum worth to the whole social body, and gen­
erally exacting it.
224
When we go outside of strict trade unionism we find
the same phenomenon unerringly operating. Merchants
have their voluntary associations to keep up prices or
conform to certain ethics. Doctors have their national,
state, and sometimes local medical associations. Writ­
ers and artists have their guilds. Even manufacturers
of allied commodities combine in price-fixing agree­
ments, and the federal government has a devil of a time
to keep them from doing toward the defenseless public
exactly what the trade unions want to do to them in turn
—exact their standards of payment by arbitrary force.
Lifted up into the stratosphere of manufacturing, union­
ism is termed a Trust, and members go to jail for suc­
cessfully forming one—if the government is lucky
enough to indict and convict them. In certain parts of
Ohio not long since, certain numbers of relief workers
have set up an organization for the benefit of their own
ranks in performing services toward the impoverished,
lamentably known as dole distribution.
The only branch of artisanry that does not seem to be
organized, are those government clerks that are not un­
der Civil Service classifications but hold their jobs
through some sort of patronage. Even the police in
some cities are organized. It was not so long ago that
Boston had a police strike. The city was given over to
lawlessness and looting in a matter of hours. Supply
and demand, indeed!
True, there are scores of compensated occupations that
are not organized, domestic servants for instance, ditch-
diggers, unskilled laborers—although the ex-Capone
racketeers have not long overlooked that lucrative field
for their questionable talents. But search closely and
you will discern that the compensations of these are also
225
predicated—perhaps negatively to a degree— on what
sums others are receiving who are in the higher callings,
skilled as we say, tightly organized and indubitably led.
In other words, the domestic servant and ditch-digger
take what they can get because they are not
astute or talented enough to ascend to places in union­
ized ranks. Their wages, however, are determined ac­
cordingly. . . . Jfc*
We do too much superficial thinking on these subjects
and not enough proving and analyzing.
SOTERICALLY speaking, I do not think
for a moment that these unions, guilds, as­
sociations, federations, and trusts, have
come about by chance. Certain well-de­
fined and divinely stipulated urges are be­
ing actualized, all tending toward an ulti­
mate result. Admitting all the faults of trade unionism
—and they are many, although principally confined to
its defects of leadership—none the less, trade unionism
is an excellent thing, a necessary, a beneficial thing. It
has been nature’s way in industry of offsetting and
checkmating the rapacity of utter conscienceless and
soulless industrialists. The conflict between these em­
ployer and employee groups has been merciless. But
so was the inhumanity and stupidity of the employing
classes before trade unionism got its stride. Underneath
and behind it all, however, a great esoteric principle is
manifest. It was exactly the same group urge that sent
the writers of the nation into The Authors League of
America, the artists and sculptors into their so-called
clubs, the lawyers into their bar associations, the charity
226
workers of Ohio into an association to combine in furth­
erance of their “interests.” . . .
Many of these have no more effectual way of enforcing
their dictates on the public than an infant in arms can
enforce its dictates on an irritable mother—which the
average infant succeeds in doing with equal irritation in
far greater degree than the nondescript artist. But be­
hind and beyond their gregarious assemblings you dis­
cover compensation and ethics the motivating factors.
Even the clergymen of the nation come together period­
ically to discuss ways and means of getting their church
roofs mended and their arrears in salary paid. Com­
pensation first. Then ethics. Frequently the ethics
screen the compensation.
What all these artisans, professions and members of as­
sociations are truly doing, is indicating to mass society
just what they think themselves worth to the body pol­
itic. They may not always get what they think they are
worth, but the principle holds.
So too will it hold under Christian economics.
Again and again as I go about the nation, I have people
address to me the same eternal question—this matter
of the determination of compensation standards—and
want to know what archangel is suddenly going to flut­
ter down into the midst of any respective group and dic­
tate to the rest of society how much a given classification
of folk in the Commonwealth’s service is to get. I re­
turn them all the same answer: Exactly the same agen­
cies that dictate such at present.
Deep in the heart, conscience and intellect of every
worker on earth resides a queer recognition of approxi­
mately what he considers to be the value of his con­
tribution to society. Pay a man less than what he in­
227
tuitively or instinctively believes himself worth, and he
will be disgruntled and may soldier on his job. But stu­
dents of human nature in industry know an equally
startling truth: Pay a man more than he considers him­
self worth in his trade or profession and he will soldier
quite as quickly.
Why it should be so, I leave to psychologists. Personal­
ly I have a notion that every man rates himself in life at
about his correct value to mortality. If society doesn’t
agree with him, he will struggle and protest until he gets
it. We sometimes misname this rating, Ambition. If
society overpays him, he will say to himself: “Well, I
can let up and take a day off.” Tell him that he shouldr
n’t let up and take the day off, and he will cry, ‘Why
not? Haven’t I earned it?” And right there he will be
telling you a secret of the universe, although neither
of you may sense it. Men and women know subcon­
sciously, I believe, exactly where they belong in the so­
cial organization according to something called their
cosmic recognition. So long as they feel they are obey­
ing the dictates of their karma—to use an Eastern term
to express my idea—they will sense a general satisfac­
tion with life and society. In other words, they will find
their own levels and play their individualistic roles with­
out help from the neighbors. The combining together
in trade unions, guilds, leagues, associations and trusts,
is only a social instrumentality for effecting what they
subconsciously believe to be correct. In other words,
they find they can get what they want individually
quicker and more effectively by acting in concert. And
the higher the intellectuality, the more reasonable and
amenable will this arrangement be, and the more it will
disguise itself behind a screen of ethics. Esoterics again!
228
OMING down to tacks in the Christian
Commonwealth, the followers of the vari­
ous arts, crafts, trades and professions
know about how much society should
compensate them for that which they pos­
sess to deliver to society. They have been
recognizing it for years. Their bitterness in fighting
has been to accomplish it. Suppose society let up on the
conflict for a time and took such artisans at their own
estimates of their worth.
In the trades and crafts, consider the prevailing compen­
sation-rate as it stood on May 29, 1928—the day on
which commodity prices reached their peak as deter­
mined by economists, throughout the whole earth. Es­
tablish that rate by contract with labor over a five-year
period, exactly as Labor enters into such contractual re­
lations with private employers today. Maintain that
rate over five-year periods, subject to readjustment at
the end of such intervals as the public policy dictates.
Is anyone so brash as to say that wise and practical-mind­
ed leaders of the Christian Commonwealth cannot make
as satisfactory bargains with labor as the predatory and
selfish water tank employer? Nonsense! And again
nonsense! All depends on the good faith behind the
gesture. And men in masses have a way of manifesting
good faith. It is usually the recalcitrant individual, un­
derpaid or overpaid, who breaks such faith. I speak
from a 30-year experience in employing men constantly.
€J In the matter of the arts, the sciences, the managerial
occupations, there is usually small difficulty in estimat­
ing merit and accordingly rewarding it or not rewarding
it. I shall refer to this in more detail in my treatise on
artists, writers and journalists under the Christian Corn-
229
monwealth. When a man-to-man or person-to-person
preference enters in, the general compensatory situation
is somewhat changed. I may want to own a certain art­
ist’s picture because it pleases my eccentric fancy and
be willing to pay him what seems to the next person a
perfectly silly price. That is a private transaction be­
tween that artist and myself and not the Common­
wealth’s business.
So too, in a degree, with my preference for a given den­
tist or a doctor. The Commonwealth must concern itself
with broad executive policies that apply to masses or
classifications of citizens. To compile a Talmud of mi­
nute industrial and financial procedure, and offer it as a
holy book which the individual violates at his penalty,
would not only be to deal in absurdities but it would
hold the seeds of its own disintegration. Men are men
and women are women. Both are adults and fierce in­
dividualists. They do not need to be lifted from bed
in the morning and tucked away at night with a kiss—by
the Commonwealth personnel or any other agency.
Once get the general idea of the Commonwealth estab­
lished in their intellectual reflexes, and these smaller
matters will sensibly adjust themselves. General John­
son has conceded that trying to prescribe every silly lit­
tle detail of Code conduct was one of the major causes
of the NRA failure. We must give men and women
scope to work out these personal and craft problems
within the sphere of their own ingenuity insofar as it
does not breach or upset the essentials of the Plan.
So I am not particularly worried over who shall set the
compensations of any given profession or who shall ap­
praise any given classification of craftsmanship; but for
the years of innovation, the prevailing compensations
230
of all arts, crafts, professions and trades as of the last
highest payment date, offer a sound basis on which to
effect installation of a splendorful social progress.
After that, industrious fellow citizens, let’s trade!
I may want more compensation in that day for writing
this book than you may ever consider it worth.
I am willing to take my chances, if you are willing to
take yours. After all, if I do not receive what I think
my labor is worth, I may take reprisal on you by not
writing another book.
And you may take equal reprisal on me by deciding not
to buy that book which I have determined not to write!
. . . who knows?
231
X V : How Retailing Will Improve
T IS a Sunday afternoon in the
year 1939. Only about ten
percent of the populace has
been to church during the
morning. Clergymen seem to
have long since exhausted the
topics that truly interest and
profit people. Having had
stakes set about their thinking,
or boundaries prescribed out­
side of which any sort of hon­
est and sympathetic exploring is heresy, they have only
been able to hash and rehash what they have been taught
to talk about in theological seminaries. The average
church-goer has known in advance what any given pas­
tor would tell him, at least in substance. So he has
bought a Sunday newspaper and stayed at home. If he
felt inclined to listen to a religious discourse, he has sim­
ply turned the dial of his radio and heard a great divine
in a distant city whose pulpit is equipped with a broad­
casting microphone. And scattered over the living-room
rug, over most of the furniture, “upstairs, downstairs,
and in milady’s chamber,” have been the component
sections of the aforesaid Sunday paper, 128 pages of
newsprint each measuring 17 by 22 inches in size. It
was so bulky and heavy when he bought it that the wags
have had a stage-joke about parents cautioning children
not to let the Sunday paper drop out of their hands while
bringing it home from the corner stand, lest they suffer
232
broken ankles that require expensive mending.
As late as Wednesday of the previous week all of the
newsprint stock in that mammoth Sunday edition ex­
isted in pure white, unblemished newsprint, wound in
jumbo rolls that weighed half a ton each. Just a few
months previous, all the jumbo rolls supplying the stock
for the combined Sunday editions of the newspapers of
the nation, comprised a literal forest of lofty trees that
had taken years and years to grow to maturity. Every
Sunday in the year a whole forest of trees perishes that
these millions of pages of newsprint may litter the rugs
of America’s living rooms. Year after year the denud­
ing of the continent of its forests goes on, with attendant
drought and flood and pestilence. But so stupid, selfish,
and water tankish is the public concern for natural re­
sources that none but forest conservation “fanatics”
think much about it, or deliver much comment. Before
the Sabbath is over, a tired housewife will gather the
litter and throw it into the furnace. Thus a forest has
utterly perished. And to what purpose?
Every newspaper publisher knows that to publish a
journal in the year 1939 at a financial profit, he must
print one and one-half pages of commercial announce­
ments called advertising for every page of news matter
or informative reading text. In other words, there must
be a ratio of sixty percent advertising for forty percent
reading matter, and with many publishers, especially
when times are commercially good, this ratio runs as
high as seventy.
Now these publishers do not grade the amount of their
advertising matter by the number of their reading pages.
They do just the reverse. They send out their solicitors
and get all the commercial announcements they can beg,
233
enforce, or cajole, from the tradesmen. Having made
a reckoning of this total, they then proceed to find read­
ing matter to fill the remaining pages, good, bad, or in­
different. ±& ± *
The ideal newspaper, therefore, from the publishers’
standpoint would not be one in which the size of the
paper is regulated by the amount of bona fide news that
is available. A publisher’s ideal newspaper in the
year 1939 is one in which there is no news
matter whatever, but every inch of every page given
over utterly to paid advertising. Of course, if
such a paper were printed, no one would buy it ex­
cept a certain percentage of thrifty housewives eager
to attend the Monday bargain sales. So to secure as
wide a paid clientele for the advertisers as possible, the
publishers entice readers by first affecting to give the
current news in a news section. This is an ordinary
newspaper for Sunday, but printed on Saturday, or late
Saturday night, and filled with a rehash of important
week-end happenings. The real bulk of the reading
matter in a Sunday newspaper is magazine and literary
material, prepared days and perhaps weeks ahead of pub­
lication. In a manner of speaking, it may enlighten and
instruct—but its fundamental purpose is to so appeal
to the reader’s sense of the dramatic that he will buy
the whole great bulky concoction of advertising matter,
take it home, parcel it out among the family members,
and peruse as bait the reading matter which attracts at­
tention to the commercial announcements.
But again “breaking down” the paper’s contents, after
sixty or seventy percent of the commercial announce­
ments have been eliminated, we find that only about five
percent is real timely news that the purchaser did not
234
know about from his Saturday morning papers. The
rest is filler, or “hay” as the term is employed in the
newspaper office.
Now this filler or “hay” may be highly specialized ma­
terial. It may have been produced by expensive spe­
cialists and reproduced in the printed pages by expensive
publishing processes. Nevertheless, it is deliberately
concocted and manufactured blither. There may be a
page of fashions for the womenfolk, but again nothing
is said that has not been said already in a much better
manner in the fashion magazines or women’s weekly
and monthly publications. There may be a page of
dramatic criticism of either stage or screen productions,
but it is merely the printed report of what one person,
the reviewer, personally thought about this or that ac­
cording to his mood of the moment. There may be a
page on home economics, motor boating, or society chit­
chat about high-caste people whose only claim to pub­
licity is that they squander swollen fortunes. It is all
idle, nondescript material that the American public
proved during the world war—when newsprint was at a
premium—it could get along without and not suffer cul­
turally in the slightest degree.
Now there is no serious criticism to be offered of this
Sunday newspaper text, except its cheap, shoddy, incon­
sequential character—material set forth as blatantly as
possible to entertain readers in their Sunday moods of
relaxation. And that again is a matter of personal taste.
There are millions of copies of Sunday newspapers that
are bought by refined, discriminating people who merely
pull out the belated news or financial sections, glance
through them to make certain they have not missed an­
nouncements of consequence during the week, and then
235
cast the rest aside as so much waste. On the other hand,
there are millions of homes where the Sunday news­
paper is about the only magazine material taken into the
domicile from year’s end to year’s end. It is the adver­
tising pages to which we want to give attention in this
chapter. What, essentially, do they seek to accomplish ?
T IS trite to say that advertising, as the
American public has been trained to re­
ceive it during the past three decades, is
the process of creating an artificial or stim­
ulated market for goods, a market that
might not exist from actual needs and
urges. CJ It is printed or spoken persuasion, projected
to make the individual grasp after a commodity or a
service that he might not otherwise wish to acquire,
simply because it redounds to some other person’s eco­
nomic advantage to have him so acquire it.
Advertising is the business of first creating a need, real
or fancied, that later the need may be profitably filled.
By this no implication is intended that the practice is dis­
honest. We are looking at the problem of modern ad­
vertising purely from the standpoint of sound econom­
ics. If this vast inflated mass of general advertising has
been responsible in any degree for the woeful economic
condition in which the nation finds itself, we want to
know it. By the same token, if there is aught in modern
advertising that redounds to the permanent public profit,
we want to know that also, that it may be preserved and
utilized in the imminent Commonwealth.
There are, of course, those who profit handsomely from
professional advertising practices, who will indignantly
point out that it has been due to “modern” advertising
236
methods that the nation has grown great and prosperous
and trade practices stabilized. We can discount the
flamboyant claims of these persons. First we can point
out that the nation at the present time is not great and
prosperous, but disastrously bankrupt and on the verge
of social chaos. If they argue that modern advertising
methods have been responsible for the high degree of
culture which the American people are enjoying, we can
reply that we see only a culture of an intellectual level
no generally higher than that represented by the propa­
ganda voicings of Eddie Cantor, Fannie Hurst, Walter
Winchell and Bernard M. Baruch—all of them Jews ob­
viously with racial axes to grind and who have gained to
a supervision of the mediums of publicity and are in a
position to tout them lavishly. Lastly, we can remind
the professional advocates of the ethical worth of ad­
vertising that not only are they biased in their arguments
because they are drawing handsome livings from the
phenomenon and therefore do not want to see it criti­
cized hurtfully or discouraged, but it is a matter of easily
attestable record that the nation was quite as “prosper­
ous” economically before the turn of the century—that
is, the year 1900—when the present hysteria of adver­
tising came in, and that it was a whole lot more sane, dis­
criminating, dignified, and restrained in all its forms of
social display.
The phenomena of jazz, easy divorce, loose morals,
nudism, blatant haranguing of untruthful propaganda
for this and that in the sociological manner, likewise
seem to have ridden in with the same times that gave us
the bloated Sunday paper and the highways “plastered”
with lithographed screamers urging us to acquire every­
thing from a certain brand of motor oil to a specially
237
treated variety of cough-eliminating cigarette. As
though anyone ever coughed over a cigarette.
There are millions of people in this nation who long
with a great heartache to see the country return to the
dignified restraints of the Eighties and Nineties, to the
discriminating ethics of their fathers and mothers and
their grandfathers and grandmothers, not because they
are professional reformers, or old-fogyish, but because
in their younger years they actually lived under such a
regime and experienced many of its soul-satisfying
beauties and profits in comparison with the speed manias
and tawdry social licenses of the present time.
The younger generation, or the Hebrew foreign element
raised abroad in different school and which profits hand­
somely by this gradual debauch of social practices and
public morals, discounts and pooh-poohs such prefer­
ments. The ribald argument is contraposed that all of it
is merely a childhood fixation and the natural disinclina­
tion of the human soul to embrace change and “pro­
gress.” But the sane, cultured, discriminating person,
who has experienced both types of so-called culture, is
in a position to contrast one with the other and cast up
the benefits to his personal spirit. He knows, and has
his heartache, because he has lived through and par­
taken of both cultures. He recognizes that speed is not
necessarily progress, and that a type of anarchy in the
personal conduct—to do as one pleases regardless of
any ethical shocking of the community—is far from be­
ing culture. Indeed, it can easily epitomize the com­
plete breakdown of culture.
Of the unprecedented crime wave afflicting this nation,
ninety-five percent of which is attributable to the law­
less alien we have admitted through our gates in the
238
name of a tolerance that is really indifference, we shall
have much more to say in a succeeding paper.
What we are discussing here is advertising as a polite
racket in this present decade, carried to such extremes
that it has not only become a spiritually destructive fac­
tor, but an economic menace. For despite the dis­
gruntled protests of those who seem to profit from it,
we should understand as a people that in cold, harsh
economics, advertising in its essence has become a men­
ace, and we should understand clearly wherein and how.
tj Let us take for example the question of toothpaste.
OW no economist, however spiritual in his
declensions, is unfair or imbecile enough
to argue that the great advertising cam­
paigns for toothpaste, persuading toward
the perfect care of the teeth, have not con­
tributed splendidly toward the minimizing
of bad health and the enhancement of bodily comfort
and personal happiness. The same can be said for a
hundred brands of popular disinfectants, affecting to
remedy everything from plagues or malaria to disagree­
able odors coming from the body. From the hygienic
standpoint, such innovations are quite above criticism.
The trouble lies in the anomaly that the public has been
deliberately educated to believe that such education
could only have been possible through the commercial
initiative of private concerns.
It is maliciously made unthinkable that the same pro­
phylactic campaigns could have been sponsored and
waged by our school institutions. The spectacle of a
group of city children in our grammar schools being
given a half hour in the mornings for the actual practice
239 '
of scrubbing the teeth, stands as a blasting indictment of
parental deficiency. It is hailed with acclaim by the
great manufacturers of tooth creams, whose educational
lobbyists were largely responsible for getting such in­
structions included in the school curriculums—that as
those children go to their homes or approach maturity
they shall maintain or promote the practice and thus
create large revenues from commercial sales for those
manufacturers who fatten the private purses of stock­
holders. Without such commercial persuasion blatantly
broadcast, this type of physical instruction is on the
whole resented by parents whom society allows to con­
tinue in ignorance of hygienic fundamentals on the plea
that this is a free country and if a citizen does not wish
to take a bath, it is nobody’s business but his own. This,
no matter how much of a stench his unwashed body
may spread in public places to the annoyance or dis­
gust of those who are compelled to associate with him,
or perhaps become contaminated by his bodily filth. We
have in this regard, the old story of the teacher who sent
the little immigrant boy home to be cleaned before he
could be allowed to associate with the offspring of
parents more socially conscious. Back came the child
in the same befouled condition, bearing an illiterate note
from his mother: “dere teacher Willy is no rose lern
him don’t smell him.”
Coming back to the toothpaste manufacturers, it is an
argument for their position in the commercial picture
that their bought-and-paid-for advertising hammers
away week after week, and year after year, at such mass
social indolence and in the matter of the teeth, makes the
nation dental minded. Where we find fault with such
reasoning is, that it implies that society as a whole has
240
no obligation to educate the citizenry in such matters,
that expensive educational systems should care only for
the intellectual improvements, and that if private
profiteers from toothcream creation did not thus seek to
extend their business and expand their sales, the nation
would remain peopled with persons of broken cuspids
and repellent halitosis. It is argued that nothing but
such incentive to personal, private profit could or would
accomplish such innovations, and that therefore any
criticism or curtailment of such hygienic advertising is a
body blow directed at the general public health.
This is saying in effect: “Unless there is personal profit
to someone’s purse involved, the race cannot be ex­
pected to improve, to grow a larger social consciousness,
or recognize what is needful to preserve the public’s
physical welfare.”
What really is being said is: “We do not wish to en­
courage the State to look into these matters and sponsor
them, for then our offices would be rendered super­
fluous. We derive a fine revenue from doing these things
which society in general should be doing as a matter of
adult consciousness. Therefore we wish educators and
the press to create the impression that people will pay
no attention to these matters if left to auspices other
than our own. In fact, we even go so far as to insist
as taxpayers ourselves that the State keep its hands off
our business and our function, and teach indirectly that
humankind from the State’s standpoint is basically un-
teachable anyhow.” Millions will accept this. Morons
by the tens of millions will agree that thus enlarging our
educational systems to bring about an eager, whole­
some, constructive social consciousness will not only be
attacking the mortally impossible but in some manner
241
or other will be curtailing their personal liberties. Be­
sides, argues some economic numbskull, our educational
system costs enough in taxes already without hiring
teachers to show little foreigners how to brush their
broken teeth.
But touching on the expense involved, let us see
honestly what happens. There are a hundred different
brands of toothpastes on the market, selling anywhere
from 1Oc to 50c per tube. They offer a sort of mush to
aid in scrubbing the teeth, put up in fancy lithographed
packages, and heralded by lavish and costly publicity as
to its properties and merits.
Never once is the stark truth told the purchaser, or even
hinted at, that there is scarcely a brand of toothpaste on
the market whose prophylactic efficiencies cannot be
duplicated by a 12c can of soda bicarb—and even such
a can, advertised in its own right, contains a mere 5c
worth of the actual stuff itself.
Here then is 5c worth of definite, natural product, dolled
up and dressed up, blatantly heralded, and exchanged in
the corner drug store for a silver half-dollar. The person
or the corporation that took the soda bicarb from nature
got five cents for doing it. In other words, there was
only five cents’ worth of actual wealth taken from the
beneficence of the Almighty, but before it reaches the
consumer it has mysteriously jumped in value until
economically speaking, 45c has been added to its
“value.” That 45c represents, to be brutally frank, a
score of perfectly useless and silly operations and super­
fluous additions of properties that have nothing whatso­
ever to do with the one business of toothpaste: to-wit,
removing the film of destructive acid from the teeth.
First it is given a candy flavor so that the sense of taste
242
may be utilized in aiding adolescent humanity toward
performing a necessary and sensible hygienic rite. Then
the eye is cajoled by the fancy package, so that it also
will become dental conscious when that particular pack­
age is observed. These items really add but a few cents
to the price, however. Boxes, wrappers, and flavors on
a 50c tube of toothcream do not represent more than
another 2c to 5c of its retail cost.
The biggest percentage of the 50c which the public pays
for the 5c worth of actual tooth-cleaning compound is
the distributing and sales cost, the latter including not
only profits for wholesale and retail druggists but the
campaign cost of public proclamation that this paste and
none other is the one that should be acquired when the
incisors need a polish. And such is the peculiar psy­
chology of both copy-writers and buying public today,
that 80 percent of the advertising released throughout
all mediums in America today is based on some phase
of the fear complex. You have only to analyze the ad­
vertisements in a current newspaper or magazine or
along a mile of billboards, to recognize how irrefutable
this is. t?
In the case of the toothpaste the fear complex is exer­
cised in the matter of pyorrhea, pink toothbrush, or
disease germs multiplying in the personal system. In
the case of the motor oil it is the attack of the gingin-
goophus, a prehistoric-like monster that is shown on
the billboards devouring a motor. In the case of a
cigarette it is the irritated throat. In the case of the
automobile tire it is the tread that bursts and hurls the
“dear ones” into the smash-up. In the case of the radio
it is fear of missing the great politician’s speech or the
audible interview with the visiting celebrity. In the case
243
of paint it is fear of loss of the materials used in con­
struction. Fear, fear, fear! Constant and emphasized
appeals against some sort of loss! Negative construc­
tiveness! Playing up to humankind’s inferiority com­
plex ! But to get back to toothpaste.
Huge advertising corporations are supported by the
public by indirect tax. Instead of the public school
teacher’s extolling the virtues of personal hygiene by
the employment of 5c worth of soda bicarb, imperson­
ators are paid fabulous sums to give programs of negroid
twaddle nightly over the radio, volumes of pages in ex­
pensive magazines are financed, miles upon miles of
flamboyant billboards desecrate the natural scenery. All
these must be paid for. And they are paid for—out of
the major part of that 43c worth of fabricated price-
value on the tube.
Along comes the Soothsayer in the pay of the toothpaste
Water-Tanker and protests: “But think of the millions
of people kept in profitable employment by the inclusion
of all these items—copy-writers, artists, printers, lithog­
raphers, radio organizations, bill-posters! Stop general
advertising, and will not all these be thrown out of
work?” in? ± #
We cast back at such the challenge: “You have not
added one cent per capita to the aggregate wealth, by
the employment of these persons. They are employed,
truly. But it is far from being ‘profitable’ employment.
What you are really doing, in keeping all these people
on a payroll, is swapping dollars, or breaking dollars up
and passing around the pennies to a thousand or ten
thousand individpals. You get no real wealth, in any
commodity, except as you take it from nature’s store­
house, and exchange it for commodities also taken from
244
nature’s storehouse by others. You may put fifty mil­
lions of people to work refining and dolling up five
cents’ worth of soda bicarb, but it is none the less five
cents’ worth of soda bicarb until the end of its time. It
can never be otherwise. And its value is thus nominally
fixed in terms of five pennies, because, translated into
current money, the sum-total of commodities which hu­
manity is willing to barter for exactly that amount of
soda bicarb is likewise fixed normally and nominally at
5 cents. It would be quite as accurate to call the price
five silver dollars, if equal amounts of other commodities
bartered for it were also appraised and listed as being
worth five silver dollars.
The customer with 50c in his pocket goes into a drug
store obsessed that he wants toothpaste because the
hysterical din of public advertising has sufficiently
flagellated his obedience complex. He feels that he is a
peaceful, acquiescent, law-abiding individual, not try­
ing to stand out from the herd, when he sees a billboard
advertisement for toothpaste. He can say to himself:
“I have eliminated the annoyance of that appeal in my
consciousness because I do use that toothpaste.” So he
eliminates this constant massaging of his gregarious
emotions and reactions by handing over 40c to 50c for
the 5c worth of soda bicarb that has a candy taste and is
presented in a lithographed box.
What becomes of that 40c to 50c as it is broken down
and distributed? First, the druggist deducts his “profit”
of from 8c to 18c. He has indeed performed a pub­
lic service by making a place available where such
antiseptic can be acquired, but still he has not added any
new wealth to humanity’s hoard that is “above ground”
or “in hand” or negotiable for barter. It never occurs
245
to such purchaser that there is no reason on earth why
this retail drug store “service” should cost him a separate
charge with its own profit added, or that a system would
be practical whereby he could receive it as a service
rendered to him by his government, exactly like the
postal service of the present.
Next, the wholesale druggist takes his 4 cent cut for
serving the druggist and “carrying” the retailer’s finan­
cial account. So this makes 12 cents for distributing
service—and still it’s the same 5 cents’ worth of soda
bicarb with the candy taste, packed in the 2 cent fancy
box. Just the same old dollars being broken down into
pennies. The clerks and accountants all draw their
weekly wages for keeping the drug store open, and the
proprietor adds another store to his chain and supports
three wives and a fancy roadster. Whereupon we reach
the manufacturer.
He has clamored incessantly at the public to buy his
concoction. He has stressed its scouring qualities. He
has shouted that it savors of wintergreen instead of
peppermint. He has, as we say, “a standardized
product under a well-known trade-mark which the public
has learned that it can trust.” What he means to say
is, that he makes his goods after a private formula and
the increment therefrom is strictly his to enjoy.
But to popularize it, he has retained an advertising
agency and made a lavish “appropriation” to motivate
in his particular favor a public fear complex regarding
pyorrhea. Out of the 28c remaining of the “ 50c”
sale, let us say that he assures himself of 6c per
tube as his “profit” to pass out in turn to thousands
of stockholders who do no productive work around the
clock but who at some time or other loaned him the use
246
of their funds to get this little monopoly going. That
leaves 22c per tube for the “advertising” of it. What
does the agency do?
Straightway it deducts its own little tariff of 15 percent
to pay its rent, its salaries, its hire of artists, its exclusive
expenses. That is 15 cents out of every dollar or three
and one-third cents out of the remaining 22 cents,
which leaves eighteen and two-third cents to pay for
time on the radio, to pay for the magazine pages in color,
to pay the salary of Wesley Winans Stout or to reim­
burse Irvin Cobb or Peter B. Kyne for producing enter­
taining stories to go into the reading pages of the
periodical in which such advertisements are inserted. Or
it pays the lithographers and billposters, with their over­
head staffs of executives, for bedaubing the rural land­
scape with shrieks about toothpaste when one would
prefer to contemplate the little white schoolhouse in
the dell. 2 ?
Down, down, down, the remaining sum of eighteen
and two-third cents is broken into pennies and tenths
of pennies, and hundredth parts of pennies—which in
the accumulate are massed again and distributed around
to all those non-producers of wealth—people who live
off renting of funds for such projects or who merely en­
tertain. But still 5 cents’ worth of bicarb is 5 cents’
worth of bicarb and can never be anything else. So
witness the effect. . . .
247
. IS true that from time to time all these
accessories to or after the fact, draw
salaries from the advertising appropriation
in well-screened guises, and that they in
turn spend those salaries for other com­
modities. But as in the case of the
farmer, which we have studied in a previous chapter,
or the manufacturer who paints the colors on the
croquet stake, this is all the same money being used
over and over again. The only new money or wealth,
to replace that consumed when the teeth are brushed
and the superfluous cream spit down the wash-stand,
is that which is taken anew from Mother Earth’s reser­
voir in the form of that same amount of new soda bicarb
or its barter-wealth equivalent.
The instant that the allocation or distribution of moneys
for the refining or entertaining processes—in other
words the standardizing and advertising processes—be­
comes one fraction of a cent greater than the equivalent
barter-value of the soda bicarb wealth taken from Na­
ture’s laboratory, there will be a shortage of purchasing
wealth somewhere, in the accumulate. The advertising
agency will get a lesser appropriation, its copy-writers,
artists, and executives will suffer a cut in their salaries,
Irvin Cobb and Peter Kyne will get less for their stories
or find the market not so eager for them at all, the
druggists both wholesale and retail will pare their staffs
because the “volume of business” is falling off—and the
only people who fail to suffer will be the radio enter­
tainers, because they have become so popular that if the
toothpaste company doesn’t want their services, the
manufacturer of auto tires will take them and jump at
the chance.
248
|OR THE past three decades national adver­
tising has been increasing consumption of
kr'sj X I t comrnocIities, yes- It has been bettering
I*! products in quality of commodities, it has
standardized brands of goods for con­
venience in ordering. But from the
economic standpoint it has been doing nothing but mark­
ing up dizzier and dizzier and entirely fabulous value-
prices on goods merely because so many persons must
have the wherewithal to live if they are to continue such
exploitation and entertainment.
In all this, because it has seemed to work for a mere 30
years or so, as others forms of wealth from earlier
decades were being drawn upon, it has been heralded as
the great creator of the nation’s prosperity.
In reality, a colossal swapping of the same identical
dollars has been going on, with a gigantic deficit steadily
mounting; and each staff of so-called workers, on get­
ting its split and its mythical profit, has not only been
content that such practices should continue but has
blindly closed its eyes to the economic principles being
flagrantly violated.
Because this money has been broken up and swapped
over such a wide area, and among so many hundreds of
thousands of persons, it has taken a long time for indi­
viduals to recognize from cumulative results that the
process has been fallacious and ultimately carries
penalty. t?
Now those accumulated results, as profits, are showing
up as fallacious, and there is a sudden dearth of natural
wealth to replace consumption that has been dropping
behind imperceptibly but no less inexorabfy. “What
need is a lot of new money!” cries the economic
249
we
numbskull who will not face the facts because it means
these great exploitation and entertainment companies
must disband. “What we need is a dollar arbitrarily
marked up by legislation to be worth two dollars via
inflation!” cries some financial “adviser” to the nation’s
Chief Executive. Whereupon the 50c in the pocket of
the customer who wants toothpaste will seemingly for
a time buy him twice as much, whereas the truth is that
it has been cut in half and is really worth but 25c. Sub­
sequently, as fast as the economic wheel can turn over,
all the attendant costs and tariffs readjust themselves
to this altered schedule. Whereupon the same distress
manifests and the agitator cries: “It couldn’t be any
worse under Communism! So let’s kick the capitalistic
Constitution out of the window.”
The grim truth of the matter is, that too many unneces­
sary persons have been talking Negro dialogue, or writ­
ing fiction stories, or drawing pictures of pink tooth­
brush, in proportion to the numbers of persons who
have been evolving soda bicarb derived from Nature and
getting compensated in equal amounts of other Nature-
derived products.
So Christian economics says: “It is not any vindictive
caprice that makes us tell all you people that you must
estimate correctly this voluminous, catch-penny, artifi­
cial-market exploitation with all your colored inks, fancy
pictures, and neon lights—in other words, this great
Frankenstein of advertising—and get down to stern,
hard, economic facts. And these facts are: that no
matter what nominal money value you place on
products, if you do not take your wealth from Mother
Earth, and pay the laborer in other forms of natural
wealth to the exact amount of what he has produced,
250
you are going to encounter an appalling shortage every
little while in your economic book-balancing and wonder
where your wealth has vanished. You have got to throw
over this hysterical advertising racket, fine as it seems
in its outward manifestations, and come down to the
ghastly realization that the money hasn’t ‘vanished’ any­
where, because you never had it to begin with! What
you have had all along was mere paper balances which
you thought were increment because from time to time
you could cash them in for token dollars at the corner
bank. Amos ’n’ Andy do not need to stop broadcasting
Negro entertainment. Irvin Cobb and Peter B. Kyne
do not need to stop writing interesting stories. The
Saturday Evening Post does not need to stop publishing.
But your 5 cents’ worth of soda bicarb must be reckoned
and recognized for that which it is. Amos ’n’ Andy
and Irvin Cobb and Peter B. Kyne and Wesley Winans
Stout must be compensated in the proper financial
columns where they belong, not mixed up as a tariff on
soda bicarb; so that when the labor balance gets out of
plumb, and the non-producers—or refiners or enter­
tainers, as you prefer—outnumber by one man the
actual takers of wealth from Nature, the fact can be seen
and the balance restored. Or at least it must be kept
true. And the way to keep it true is to revise your
whole system of manufacturing and accounting, lump
all these together as one process—in ten thousand differ­
ent branches of industry making ten thousand varieties
of commodities—and then accurately schedule your
production by your mean of consumption. Now you
are playing a game of blind man’s buff with one another
in the dark of economic totals, in the mass. When the
times of book-balancing come, the penalty is cruel be­
251
cause it has not been recognized for what it is nor proper
remedies therefor applied. We say to you that you can­
not pyramid the costs of superfluities to Nature’s wealth
indefinitely without incurring a shortage of wealth at
your base of all wealth: natural resources. Take as
long as you please to find this out. We are only sug­
gesting the proper alternative because it is the stark,
grim fact of economic law that harks back to Adam and
Eve in the Garden of Eden. You have built a beautiful
circus of artificial sales methods requiring a tremendous
upkeep. The music of the bands is enticing, and the
circus lot is jammed with admiring crowds. But what
good does it do you to attract them to your show-
grounds when every man-jack among them has a con­
tinually deflating wallet?”
ODERN advertising, lavish as it is, wide­
spread in practice as it is, has got to pass
away utterly because in reality there is
nothing and never has been anything, in
the way of basic wealth production, in it
to support it. High prices for commodities
that have come about through national advertising,
mean absolutely nothing if the wealth that has built the
system has come from a totally foreign quarter: to-wit,
the reservoirs of natural wealth created in the great
1870-to-1914 western boom period which the war
started to disseminate.
In the days of our youth, 1Oc would buy a huge paper
sack of common crackers from the grocer’s cracker-
barrel. Today the same 10c buys a neatly lithographed
package of crackers that we can slip conveniently into
the coat-pocket. In the exact ratio that we have paid
252
a
for fancy wrappers, magazine advertisements and bill­
board space, we have lost in crackers. We cannot eat
the fancy wrappers, nor the magazine advertisements,
nor the billboard acreage. But all these last have be­
come bogus and extraneous accessories to 1Oc worth of
common crackers. Pulverizing dollars for non-essen­
tials, that is all! Dollars broken down into pennies for
wider distribution among artists and copy-writers and
swabbers of paste on country barns. But meantime, if
we have four children, they each get two crackers or
cookies apiece instead of the eight apiece they would
have gotten in 1896.
Christian economics does not say that all this flam­
boyant activity, all these cellophane wrappings around
values taken from earth, must be done away with be­
cause there is spleen in the Higher Dimensions against
negroid broadcasting, or stories of Judge Priest, or litho­
graphed circulars swabbed onto barns. It makes the
suggestion in gentle reasonableness that there is no real
money to support all this extraneous procedure, and that
there never has been, and that what has sponsored it to
date has been a securing of revenue from some other
source. Moreover, such wealth cannot be created by
ignoring the stern economic facts, or passing legislation,
or calling clear-brained thinkers evil names.
The jazz age of advertising must pass because it has,
and always has had, an utterly false and insecure
premise. i<*
Give humanity time, and its sufferings will make it see
the obvious, now maliciously or stupidly beclouded by
those who fancy they can still profit handsomely by
“cleverly” hookwinking economic law.
253
HEREFORE the practice of retailing boils
down to the business of considering all
types of goods as “finished goods” if, as
and when they are offered for sale, and
finding a way to distribute them among
the nation’s consumers in such a manner
as does not put an addition on the cost price to cover
items that are not essentially the product disposed of.
tfl The Commonwealth innovation, by totaling the cost
of operations performed by the whole people, so to
speak, and dividing these in proportion to the articles
produced and consumed, makes the finished cost price
the one and only selling price. Therefore in the grand
accumulate, the mass-public continually has the buying
power to requisition and absorb exactly the amounts of
stuffs which it creates. And it can never be otherwise.
There can be no glut except where a demand for a given
product has been incorrectly anticipated, and this can
soon be remedied. If there never is any glut, there
never is any economic disruption commonly called
either panic or depression.
Retailing can therefore become as unobtrusive and ef­
fective a government service as the post office. There
is no basic difference between the citizen’s wanting a
stamp to go onto his letter and wanting a sandwich to
go into his face. Both are types of service for supplying
human needs. The same community or common­
wealth office that is discharged by the postal depart­
ment, can be similarly installed to supply every com­
modity from fertilizer to underwear and back to steam
engines, with no more crazy shriekings for markets than
Uncle Sam employs to serve his people with their post­
age stamps and the dispatch service for correspondence
254
which the postage stamp assures. Imagine Uncle Sam’s
using a page in a Sunday newspaper to ballyhoo to the
citizens that on Tuesday at nine o’clock in the basement
of the Federal Building, the government was putting
on sale a choice and fancy assortment of slightly marked-
down postage stamps which could be placed on letters
for quick delivery between Wednesday and Saturday!
fj[ The ironic feature of the present situation is, that
people really need servicing in foodstuffs, clothes, the
necessities, comforts, and even the luxuries of life quite
as much, if not more so, than they need to mail their
letters. The post office was originally established and
taken under government control to promote the public
intelligence. No one shrieks “Socialism! Communism!
Regimentation!” because it is against the law for any
private concern to go into the business of hauling letters
in competition with the government.
Enlightened logicians are coming to believe that the
government must go one step further in promoting the
public intelligence, and abolish the ten-thousand-and-
one hot dog stands bedaubing our highways, the ten-
thousand-and-two small retail shops kept by tradesmen
who are practically starving to death, the ten-thousand-
and-three competing lines of items and service that now
duplicate one another in bewildering imbecility, all with
their accompanying burden of economic inefficiency and
loss.
Under Christian economics, the congested and unwhole­
some—not to say inartistic—business center must be
entirely discarded and abandoned. It has only existed
up to the present because catch-penny markets were
necessary and these could best be found where the
crowds congregated thickest, or for convenience of
255
workers and purchasers in supplying their wants with
minimum dispatch. The business district of the future
under the Commonwealth can be a series of gigantic
emporiums in each metropolis quite as beautiful as the
new Civic Group going up along Pennsylvania Avenue
in Washington. Consider trends in this direction mani­
fest already. . . .
As you approach Baltimore from the south, you con­
front on your left near the outskirts of the city a mam­
moth industrial retail depot with lawns and approaches,
owned and conducted by Montgomery Ward & Com­
pany. In this gigantic emporium practically any and
every personal, domestic or commercial need can be
supplied, instantly, without leaving the premises. You
can even drive your car to its rear platforms and have
your purchase of new auto tires applied to your motor­
car. As you leave Philadelphia along Roosevelt Park­
way, you pass a similar huge emporium set in artistic
shrubbery, an atmosphere of dignity and atmospheric
charm surrounding it, the Philadelphia plant of Sears,
Roebuck. There is parking space for motorcars about
these plants. Purchasing is done in a leisurely spirit of
explorative contemplation. There is no crowding, no
frenzied carousal of side show barking in order to sell
goods. Dignity and sanity prevail in such emporiums,
and who shall say they are not efficient, that they mar
any landscapes, that they offend the aesthetic or prac­
tical sense in the slightest regard?
Why cannot the nation’s retail business be conducted
from such depots and emporiums, instead of in crowded
pinch-penny bazaars—really an importation from the
Orient—by drawn-faced tradesmen who are barely mak­
ing both ends meet and must hawk at passersby from
256
their door-fronts in despair at getting patronage? Why
cannot every ugly, unsightly, unwholesome, nondescript
“commercial district’’ in the whole nation be similarly
replaced, with attendant efficiency and dignity react­
ing on personnel as well as on patron? And the Com­
monwealth can command such expedients without im­
posing an injustice on a single citizen.
There was a time when the little retailer had his shop
in the front or the side of his dwelling-house. High-
pressure sales methods introduced by Levantines and
Orientals suddenly drove him into the congestion ot
Main Street, where rents soared accordingly and the for­
gotten many had to pay the freight for all the new tur­
moil and inconveniences. Great stores like John Wana-
maker’s or Macy’s came in, and yet no one shrieked
“regimentation!” Today the little merchant is barely
holding his own. He went into “business” to start with,
because it offered a means of keeping himself and his
dependents from starvation. He obeyed no cosmic urge
of his being by starting up a shop.
How much better henceforth to graduate him into a
highly-remunerated managerial position in the public
service with his huckstering worries a thing of the past,
and let him begin to enjoy life free of financial strain
when his shop day is over!
He might not fight it so much as we assume.
257
X V /: Exit the Banker
ELL the average business man
today that the entire commerce
of the nation can be carried on
from generation to generation
without a cent of money ever
being involved and he will
suggest that you be taken in
front of a medical board and
examined as to your sanity.
There is not one person in
ten thousand who knows where
money as currency came from, why it has been per­
petuated, or what other fiscal systems in ages past have
served the purposes of trade with far greater facility and
wholesomeness than clumsy mintings and totings of
coinage.
The average person, educated to believe that Atlantis
was a myth and that no other political or economic
system has ever existed than that described in the
orthodox school books, thinks that coined money is quite
as vital an adjunct of trade as air and water are adjuncts
of life in the physical body.
“Do away with coinage?” he cries in scoffing horror.
“That would mean a retrograde step to primeval barter.
What medium of exchange could men possibly sub­
stitute that would have the universally recognized values
of gold and silver?”
And treating you as though you had somehow blas­
phemed against Holy Spirit, he envisions a society with-
258
out a coinage in terms of a socialistic bread line where
every man waits in a queue to have his food ticket
punched for supplies, as in present-day, workhouse
Russia.
The tragically misinformed average person has been
trained to believe rigorously and sincerely from his
cradle that money is a feature of a highly evolved state
of civilization, that savages are savages because they
have no coinage system, and that if we eliminated our
monetary structure tomorrow our commercial culture
would slip back into barbarism.
As a matter of fact, the truly profound scholar recog­
nizes that monetary systems are not products of a
highly evolved state of civilization at all. They are but
one step above tribal barter. They are indeed so clumsy,
so unwieldy, so antiquated, so given to faults and flaws,
that they hang as a great millstone around the necks of
races and cultures that are otherwise evolving. Handi­
capped by the drag of them, humankind suffers dis­
tresses that are more and more acute until finally the
very nature of such economic suffering brings even the
layman to realize that something is basically wrong
somewhere and should be corrected.
259
RST, what is money and where did it start
from? Certainly we know that it existed
in ages of the remotest antiquity, since
Egyptian and Phoenician coins have been
unearthed that go far back to before the
beginnings of recorded history. IJ The
item that coins existed among races of the remotest
antiquity, however, does not prove that monetary
systems have always been based on coinage. It only
goes to show that those races had their cultural evolu­
tions similar to our own, and that at one stage coins
were employed to facilitate barter. On the other hand,
superior and more highly evolved systems left no such
metallic evidences behind them, and therefore we have
no concrete record of them. In all seriousness, the case
is similar to the contention of the Irish archaeologist
who maintained that the ancients had wireless telegra­
phy since no evidences of wires have been unearthed
in ancient ruins. Turning to the actual records of the
Lemurian Chinese, we come closest to the facts as to
how and where money originated.
The earliest races in China, at the most remote periods,
found it cumbersome and inartistic to swap so many
fishes for so many pelts or so many bushels of wheat
for so many suits of silk clothing. So they did a most
practical and sensible thing. They cast around for some
article of universal use, that would be in demand among
all tribes and races, into which they could translate the
value of stores of fishes, pelts, wheat and clothes. And
they found it in metallic knives.
Every individual of every race, no matter where lo­
cated on the earth’s surface, had use for a knife. A
knife was alwavs excellent bartering property. One
260
could translate one’s stock of wheat in Mongolia into so
many knives of a recognized utility value, carry them
by water to Amazonia in South America, and receive for
them so many pelts that could be made into fur over­
coats for the people of Cathay.
In tracing the evolution of money, we find that these
knives were the ideal medium of exchange, since they
represented a utility value in themselves. Moreover, they
were easy of transport. So many knives done up into a
package, and worth so many bushels of Mongolian
wheat, would secure so many pelts from the natives of
South America. Thus did the wheat come to have a
value in terms of the pelts.
In time, as such international trading mounted into great
quantities, the shipments of knives became cumbersome
to handle in bundles, so someone hit on the happy ex­
pedient of making their knives with a hole in the handle
of each, that they could be strung on a cord, the ends
of which could be tied together and no single knife be
lost without the owner’s breaking the string.
It stood to reason that after many decades of such pro­
cedure, there would be a glut of knives. In other words,
there would be a bigger trade done in wheat and pelts
than there could possibly be a market for knives of
practical use. Every man had his knife, so of what use
was it to have a whole bundle of surplus knives some­
where, that perhaps might not be used throughout the
entire lifetime of the owner or his family. And yet in­
ternational barter had to go on, and knives had come to
have a recognized appreciation entirely apart from the
purposes for which they were employed.
In studying the evolution of money, we next discover
that the merchants of those remote days finally said:
261
“Since we no longer require these knives for cutting
purposes, but only to represent a medium of recognizing
the values of trade items, suppose that we save a lot
of muscle and metal by leaving off the blades. Just let
the handles be sufficient, representing the knives sym­
bolically. Then we can get almost double the number
on a string.”
Again this arrangement persisted for a time, “coinage”
being in the form of small metallic crosses with a hole
punched in the end of the longer bar of each cross. For
a while archaeologists were puzzled as to why ancient
merchants did business with these metallic crosses as the
medium of recognized values, and wondered whether
they might have had some religious significance. Only
exhaustive research uncovered the fact that these crosses
were the handles of such early knives with the hand-
guard still affixed at the hilt.
When merchants had long forgotten the earliest signifi­
cance of their medium of exchange, it occurred to them
to wonder: “Why waste all this unnecessary metal in
making these hand-guards for blades we have dis­
carded? Let us dispense with the hand-guard, and
merely have that portion of the handle about the hole
through which the stringing is done.” This was put in­
to practice, and each emperor imprinted this remnant of
the knife handle with his privy insignia, just to show au­
thentically what the round remnant of the handle meant.
<J Today, all over China these round remnants of knife
handles are still strung on cords and worn around the
neck. They are called “cash,” but their origin has long
since been lost track of in the greater significance of
the emperor’s insignia and the value of the metal em­
ployed as money.
262
OW it stands to reason that when a Le-
murian merchant came ashore in Ama­
zonia and paid out fifteen round remnants
of knife handles for a bundle of pelts, the
person receiving those queer tokens with
the hole punched in each likely asked him­
self: “What is the purpose of the hole? I have been
given these little round metal pieces in trade for my
skins, and know the merchant princes up in Yucatan or
over in Atlantis will accept them for the sandals which
they make in great quantities, and of which I and my
family frequently stand in need. It must follow, there­
fore, that the round pieces have a mystical value in
themselves else the Central American and Atlantean
merchants would not be willing to accept them for goods
which I consume.”
So it followed that the evolving cultures of the western
world began to cast their own round pieces, making the
discovery that the merchants of other lands were quite
willing to accept them if they contained similar amounts
of metal to the remnants of the knife handles that had
come from Lemurian Cathay. More and more, men
began to wear a conditioned reflex in their trade-minds
that it was the metal itself for which they traded, and
not the first utility of the knife as universally recog­
nized. But right here entered a strange item that was
to influence the commerce of a thousand generations,
f All over eastern Lemuria, South, Central and North
America, and over the whole of western Atlantis, the
religious-minded among the populace considered two
metals to have sacred significance. Being sun wor­
shipers, and the sun being a bright molten yellow, the
metal known as gold had long since been labeled by the
263
priests as having a solar-affinity significance. Gold
found in nuggets in the beds of streams and elsewhere
was believed to have been “Tears of the Sun” shed
when mankind did not obey the fiats of the Solar Priests.
Of course the priests did not discourage this nonsense.
By the same token, silver was deemed sacred to the
moon, because the moon had the bright bluish-gray
color in contrast to the molten yellow of the sun. So
these two metals were in great demand, principally to
ornament the temples and altars erected to the worship
of these heavenly bodies. For untold generations it was
a crime well-nigh punishable by death for gold or silver
to be in the possession of any persons but priests. Being
the solidified Tears of Deity, shed and dropped to
earth’s surface by grief at men’s misconduct, nuggets
of either gold or silver should not be profaned by popu­
lar possession.
This type of Sabaism or star worship, endured for many
generations until the glory of Atlantis began to decline.
Whereupon merchant princes said: “Let us impress
upon the people the sacrosanct character of these
remnants of knife handles by casting them in the sacred
metals. We will thus utilize the conditioned reflexes in
humanity’s mass-mind which the priests have accommo­
datingly arranged for us, and prevent counterfeiting,
despite the rise and fall of dynasties, with the insignia
of authenticity.”
So widespread was Sabaism all over the mundane uni­
verse in those early ages of which the historians dis­
creetly tell us nothing, that gold, a metal utterly worth­
less for any purpose other than religious or personal
ornamentation, came to have a sacrosanct value of
double potency when reduced to coinage. Silver was
264
of lesser actual value, but no less revered, for quite the
same reasons.
The trade of the world was still elemental barter but
now was carried on with the intermediary of the sacro­
sanct gold and silver tokens. As it was easier to cast
these tokens without the hole and transport them in a
little leather receptacle called a purse, the hole disap­
peared everywhere but in China. But the royal insignia
continued to appear on either side of these disks.
Thus by trade practices over untold periods of time, the
coins themselves, and the “precious” metals of which
they were cast, began to take on a synthetic, fabricated,
but standardized value that was universally recognized
and flattered.
Men said childishly: “See what a vast advance we have
made over the clumsy practices of our fathers. Instead
of hanging the remnants of our knife handles on strings
about our necks where they can jingle together and de­
clare their presence to robbers, we eliminate the hole in
the metal disks to which we have given a value only in
our psychology, and tuck them away in a receptacle of
soft leather which hushes their jingle and can be secreted
against thieves anywhere about the body that we can
contrive a pocket.” They actually thought they had
done something that was an evolution in trade practices.
The system of bartering and seizing on a difference in
quantities and qualities as “profits,” had not been
changed in the slightest. It had simply been translated
into a different medium or process of psychological
practices. And so it has continued, with scarcely an
alteration, down into the present. Men still look on
gold and silver as sacred when minted into coinage, al­
though they hoodwink themselves into believing that
265
their worship comes from an awe and reverence for
“the civilized structure” which such precious coinage
symbolizes, jfe* jfe*
But down in fairly modern times, without really being
aware of it, mankind met with still another set of con­
ditions that introduced the first faint suggestions of an
entirely new system of trading.
Ironically enough, these innovations, slight as they were
at first, were introduced by a race of people who at the
present moment are fighting desperately to keep man­
kind’s monetary systems on the clumsy knife-handle-
remnant basis because of the physical advantage it gives
them to control politics and culture in other manifesta­
tions of power.
ACK in the early middle ages of Europe,
particularly in England, the Jews were
driven hither and yon as an execrated peo­
ple for having crucified the Savior. All
branches of agriculture and manufacturing
were closed to them; they could not hold
government office of any sort; they were lawful prey
for any predatory robber who could catch them with
their worldly goods upon their persons. They were left
to the despicable calling of lending gold for such
premiums as Hebrews could exact, depending of course
on the need of the borrower. But the social conditions
under feudalism were so anarchistic that carting such
gold and silver “wealth” about with them was imprac­
tical. They hit on a scheme to outwit their pillagers.
In various centers where they existed in sufficient num­
bers to assure personal safety for themselves, they
pooled their gold and silver assets and left them in re­
266
positories with trusted members of their race. If they
made loans or paid bills they gave—instead of the
remnants of knife handles—written orders bearing their
personal signatures, which when presented at such re­
positories, to the accredited dignitaries presiding over
them, resulted in the coinage’s being duly paid out. Thus,
if one of them were caught in the greenwood and his
garments turned inside out for hidden wealth, all the
robbers found was paper and writing implements. The
robbers might have compelled the “usurers,” as they
were known, to write cheques for them under threats
of torture. But they soon found the system wouldn’t
work, because the Jews had a way of marking such
paper, unknown to the robbers, that it was exacted
under duress and must not be cashed.
In time humanity in general discovered how convenient
it was to carry about paper and writing materials in­
stead of clumsy coins always subject to confiscation, and
thus was introduced a salient feature of our modern
banking system—of leaving wealth in the hands of
trusted persons and merely writing an order to them,
for them to pay a certain sum when the drawee satis­
factorily identified himself as having a legitimate right
to receive it.
This is not saying that banks originated in early Europe.
But it was in early Europe that banking practices as
introduced by the Jews began to find favor with peoples
other than Jews. What actually was happening, with­
out humanity’s being aware of it, was that a system was
being started that was to ultimately supersede money—
as coinage made of Tears of the Sun and perpetuating
the ancient medium of knife handles.
267
OW the Jews, following the Dispersion by
Titus in A.D. 70, had been learning some
enlightening facts by the bitter experiences
of the Christian persecutions. The most
stupendous of these was, that if a king or
a country reduced its negotiable wealth to
forms of the sacred minted coinage, and these tokens
could be pooled and withdrawn from circulation, the
economic and in many cases the political life of the com­
munity would be in the absolute control of those persons
clever or industrious enough to contrive such hoarding.
There could be no open persecution for such perni­
cious practice, since there was no way of proving that it
was being done. It was a secret practice, secretly in­
dulged in. Furthermore, if it were suspected, and a
pogrom started in consequence to break such strangle­
hold by killing the perpetrators, the Jews could use their
possession of hoarded money to bargain with their per­
secutors for their lives. But in such bargainings, they
took good care to set up conditions of trade that would
expand favor toward themselves. For instance, forcing
the kings to recognize that usury up to a moderate
amount, say four, six or ten percent, was to be con­
sidered quite legal and necessary to meet banking ex­
penses. If the banking expenses were found to be far
less than the total gains from such legalized usury, the
difference was to be retained by the Jewish money
hoarders as legitimate profits.
Now as gold and silver did not exist in great profusion
such as did other metals like copper and iron, it was easy
to force such stipulations by cornering the amounts that
existed as coinage in any given kingdom. Occasionally
kings and political governments perceived what bondage
268
they were selling themselves and their people into, and
made attempts to issue coinage in other metals such as
nickel and copper, and even wood was used, as in India
at present. But such practices could not endure, be­
cause the Jews were able to set up the cry: “Such is not
true wealth; the only true wealth, established by ad­
mitted custom over thousands of generations extending
back to the star worship of the Druids, is_ gold and
silver!” And so thoroughly was the sacrosanct nature
of gold and silver imbedded in the psychology of men
of all nations and races that the Jews were able to make
their contentions good and cause the populace to reject
any such innovations that might have resulted dis­
astrously for Judah.
The secret and censored history of the finances of
Britain tells the sordid story of what constantly went on
behind the scenes. It finally occurred to King Henry to
solve the problem of subtle Jewish hoarding and the
swollen profits from legalized usury, by exiling the Jews
from England and taking over the systems they had in­
augurated, as governmental functions inviolate to the
royal house. And to make certain that no hoarding was
done illegally and former conditions repeated, Royalty
said to the populace: “Actual possession of gold and
silver, whether in coins or ingots, remains with the royal
treasury—to be known hereafter as the Exchequer. But
for all practical trading purposes, we will issue you royal
receipts or attestments that we actually have the gold in
our vaults, that will be as negotiable within the public
domain as the coins or ingots themselves. This scrip you
shall accept and trade in, but if you doubt its value, we
will from time to time demonstrate that it is as good as
the coins or ingots, by redeeming it at the royal treasury,
269
with coins or ingots. Thus we will prevent a corner on
actual physical currency, and any political or economic
embarrassment resulting from periodic hoarding by a
predatory element among our populace.”
Thus it came about that governments established
Treasury Departments. But the Jews were neither
whipped nor disposed of.
They said: “All rightI We will move into countries
where such fiats are not in force, and we will maneuver
until we become the predominant element making for
trade and war. We will compel you to do international
business with us, and to pay both your trade balances
and your war reparations in the precious metals on
which you have taken arbitrary monopoly. Whenever
you deplete your official exchequer of any of your
hoarded wealth, in the slightest degree, we will seize
upon such payments and prevent you from getting them
back again. Now what will you do about that?”
And actualizing their threat, humankind was introduced
to the International Jewish Banking House, which per­
fected a kind of super-government of its own over po­
litical States, forcing rulers to do its biddings under
duress, by manipulating their currencies and sequester­
ing such hoardings outside of areas subject to royal fiat
and hence beyond royal persecution. So mighty became
the super-government of this international money-bund
that for several generations no Continental ruler could
take up arms against another, without first obtaining the
consent of the banking firm of Rothschild—meaning in
English translation Red Shield, or Red Flag. The
original name of the Rothschilds was Mayer, and the
founder of the House in Germany was old Anselm
Mayer. Red Shield, Red Flag, or “Rothschild,” was
270
and is a trade slogan in German, and not the surname of
a genealogical line at all.
J the foregoing, therefore, we have a brief
summary of where money came from and
exactly what it is. Humanity is still do­
ing business, between individuals, between
tribes, between countries, on the ancient
barter basis, figuring comparisons of
goods-values in the form of refined knife handles. The
Jews have found a way of perfecting their super-govern­
ment over all political governments by obtaining a
monopoly, on the legalized hoarding basis, over the
coinage of all nations, and forcing all modern States to
do their bidding and give their people high personal ad­
vantage and governmental positions because of the fi­
nancial duress they can bring to bear as private bankers.
By sharp trade practices and hard-driven bargains, or by
lavish contributions to the campaign funds of political
parties, they have maneuvered to get their own repre­
sentatives into strategic financial positions of an official
character. In such places of authority, they have ce­
mented their power over the non-Jewish majority until
they have been able to branch out now in other fields
than finance and say, in effect, to the Gentile citizenry of
the United States: “You shall no longer have a Free
Press, if such freedom carries the privilege of criti­
cizing or castigating us for anything we see fit to do.
We shall be above all criticism, above all indictments
for chicanery, above all official action or private abuse.
We have extended our control to your press, your stage,
your motion-picture screen, and your radio. Being in
subtle control of your mediums of mass publicity, and
271
having perfect monopoly over your entire banking
system because of our agents at the head of your Federal
Reserve, we shall be henceforth considered an inviolate
people, above all law, with power to cause whatever
economic suffering we choose if our fiats are not com­
plied with, and even to place our henchmen at the
shoulder of your Chief Executive to see that he does
nothing that threatens to jeopardize the existing system
on which our autocratic power depends. This is going
to be an absolutely Jewish world officially, and if you
non-Jewish peoples will not assent, we shall starve you
into it—by means entirely peaceable and non-violent,
using your republican form of government and your
own codes of laws to effect and perpetuate our duress.
Let any man declare against us at his peril!”
The whole mischief has its root and foundation in the
purblind acceptance by the world’s peoples that there is
no way to carry on trade except by barter in terms of
knife handles. Our Jewish autocrats take good care to
see that our schools and colleges, with their graduate
economists, teach ’nothing to the contrary. They
realize that if information got out that there are actually
other systems of economics that work with far greater
facility and entire soundness and public satisfaction—
which have been tried and proved to be far superior to
bartering structures based on financial duress—their
super-government over the world’s modern nations
would be kicked to smithereens and they would become
as pariahs, because of their non-social temperaments and
megalomaniacal blasphemies.
If any attempts are made to expound those better and
more equitable structures, they are howled down as the
vaporings of dangerous visionaries tipping over existing
272
institutions. The howlings of course are the protests of
Judah balked in its systems of Gentile Control.
A time of economic reckoning has come in all nations,;
however. Their faulty, pernicious, predatory and
clumsy structure has proved its character by not offer­
ing facilities for the social evolution that has resulted
from science and invention. Their static, monopolistic
system has halted the commerce of the world and
headed whole continents toward economic ruin. Every­
thing is in a colossal stalemate and rapidly growing
worse. A new structure, or the more facile system,
must be introduced, because human evolution will not
halt and wait on private racial monopoly. It has hap­
pened in the past, no matter how the facts have been
suppressed and subverted. The cycle is now repeating,
and the peoples of the world are being forced to cast
around for more satisfactory systems and structures.
Do they exist?
They most certainly do!
NSTEAD of the trading peoples of the
world being distinct tribes, each occupying
its own desert island and seeking a
medium of exchange that will represent
common values accredited by them all,
the progress of science and invention has
in effect made the peoples of the world occupants of one
big island. This fact in itself alters the whole basis for
the economic structure between them.
Instead of saying: “We people of this island need the
pelts coming from the island over eastward called Eng­
land, and so we send our wheat to barter for those pelts,
both being svmbolized by these gold tokens which the
273
Jews can hoard at their pernicious pleasure,** we recast
the whole system, and say, “We are a complete people
needing a certain quantity of goods which our island
is capable of producing by our mass effort and the
capacities of our machines. So instead of bartering,
seeing that we no longer need to barter as isolated
islanders, we will simply take stock of how many of
us there are, and what we need in toto, and go ahead and
make it and distribute it. We will effect this distribu­
tion according to each man’s talents and industry. A
medium of exchange is therefore only a clumsy super­
fluity, serving as an instrumentality to put us under the
duress of monopolists who hoard in the name of their
racial advantage and to the harassment of all others.
Instead of the old-fashioned medium of exchange repre­
senting the value of what we have to barter, all we
need is an officially recognized and accredited account­
ing and clearing house. This federal house of accounts
takes note of our talent and industry and rewards us
with bank accounts from which we draw cheques on the
public stores for goods of every nature now produced
and enjoyed. We will buy our goods in vast public em­
poriums exactly as in our present department stores.
When we have received either goods or services, our
cheques are returned to the Federal Treasury Bank, or
its branch in our respective federal district, and they
are cancelled, exactly like the chequing system which
the Jews have inaugurated. Being negotiable for one
transaction only, no one can hoard them or use them to
exert any form of political, economic or racial duress
over us. No predatory persons of any nationality can
control this system to their own profit, since there is
nothing to control. Command of it rests on the majority
274
vote of all the populace, and even if any Jews, for in­
stance, became executive officers, they could not profit
themselves without overthrowing the system, which we
would quickly know about because we the sovereign
people are the system. They could not take great allot­
ments of goods unto themselves because they could not
dispose of them. The populace would have nothing to
offer for those goods that enriched them. They would
have to come down on an economic level with all other
peoples and behave themselves. On the other hand,
they could not be economically persecuted themselves,
because the system would protect them as individuals
quite as much as it would protect other peoples against
them as autocrats.”
This colossal Federal Treasury Bank need not have
a dollar in its vaults in the form of Tears Sacred to the
Sun. It has something better; it has official title to the
goods-wealth itself, which cannot be trafficked in, in any
manner whatsoever. Instead of ‘‘sound money” based
on remnants of knife handles inscribed with political
insignia, its citizens write cheques redeemable any hour
of the day in terms of actual goods which formerly the
golden knife-remnants only symbolized.
Is it not the sounder practice to trade in and own the
goods themselves rather than the mere metallic symbols
for those goods?
Call this house of accounting by the name of “bank” if
you wish. Names are immaterial. It is the true Treasury
of the sovereign people because it contains the titles to
the goods-wealth itself, which is the sum of human labor
in production from Nature, not a lot of metal tokens
which can be trafficked in and manipulated at the secret
behest of a race of megalomaniacs.
275
Here indeed, is an absolutely new principle in govern­
ment and economics, a principle that is as sound as the
goods themselves are sound.
We mint, earn, and expend money, so-called, today,
because it buys things. What do we mean by “buy” ?
We mean that by presenting these tokens at a given em­
porium, either publicly or privately administered, we
can obtain a given quantity of goods or services. So
long as we actually receive the goods or services, what
matters it whether the order on that emporium be a gold
token or a piece of paper scrip? We have learned over
the past eight decades that scrip in the form of the bank
cheque is quite as serviceable and satisfactory as the
token made of metal. Very well, why not go the whole
hog and carry the system to the point where the clumsy
knife-remnant is an extraneous, embarrassing, unneeded
factor? ± * ± p
What is happening today throughout the world, is the
ironical circumstance of the major nations’ accepting
and using the scrip or bill of exchange form of currency,
until it has threatened to defeat the monopoly of the
Jewish money hoarders with their offices intrenched in
every country in Christendom. Faced with this ca­
lamity, the Jewish hoarders themselves have made a
frantic attempt to recall humanity back to the knife-
remnant standard by saying in effect: “We emasculate
and invalidate the scrip or paper currency we have
taught you to use, by declaring that it shall be based not
on goods or aggregations of machinery to produce
goods, known as factories, but on antiquated little
tokens symbolizing those goods, because we are able to
hoard the tokens and embarrass you economically every
little while if j^ou will not do our political bidding. When
276
our scrip, whether as cheques, bills of exchange, or cor­
porate securities, is not based on these handy little
tokens which we can hoard and manipulate for our
pleasure and your distress, we shall unleash the full
power of our journals of public education and convince
the populace that such scrip is not “sound.”
This they are doing at the present moment, and clear­
headed thinkers who see through their monopolies and
malpractices, are castigated, discredited, fined or jailed
as radicals engaged in tipping over existing institutions,
or as dangerous visionaries who must not be allowed in
any effective instance to get the ear of the troubled
public. They know full well that the public does not
need to trade in these symbolic little knife remnants at
all. The public has now arrived at such a state of evo­
lution, and territories are so charted and circumscribed,
that the whole people can deal in the goods themselves
on an island-distribution basis, and have done with its
economic woes deliberately manufactured to keep racial
monopolists in power.
So thoroughly imbued with the old-fashioned knife
remnant systems is the average man, however, and so
complete is the control of the monopolistic racial ele­
ment over all instruments of education and publicity,
that only a period of economic anarchy resulting from
the complete collapse of the unrighteous system, entail­
ing great private suffering, can make the common citi­
zen turn his attention to the simple equity and facility
of something different. So “God lets us suffer a Depres­
sion,” as the theologically minded express it.
277
NDERSTAND that in the last analysis, a
modern bank, revered as publicity me­
diums of the monopolists have caused it
to be, is nothing but a clearing house of
the assets and liabilities of individuals.
True, it is supposed to have a certain sum
of specie, or knife remnants, in its vaults. But when
all those who have debit-and-credit accounts with it
actually demand their knife remnants, the place has to
shut up shop. It literally hasn’t got them. It has sent
them to the monopolists, to be hoarded or traded in for
official control by the super-government.
Witness President Roosevelt’s giving it out over the
radio that new government scrip, technically known as
Federal Reserve Notes, is being distributed to all Federal
Reserve Banks for distribution in place of golden knife
remnants, but “issued on sound security.” Take note
that he does not tell us what the “sound” security is. It
truly is actual wealth, or paper deeds and titles to actual
wealth which are acceptable to the international Jewish
money monopolist because, being title to actual wealth,
it means that he owns and dispenses such actual wealth.
And the populace must like it.
A popularly-elected President of the United States does
this, and there is an ugly insinuation in his voice when
he tells his people that “hereafter, hoarding of gold will
be extremely unpopular.” Why will it be unpopular?
Because officials of the international Jewish money-
bund like Mr. Bernard Baruch, Mr. Eugene Meyer, Mr.
James Warburg, and Mr. Henry Morgenthau, now
dignified as Secretary of our Treasury, would rather
have the golden tokens in their own hands during this
upset than in the hands of the populace. In the hands
278
of the populace, their monopolistic powers are con­
stantly threatened.
Our national currency from almost the inception of our
fiscal government under Hamilton, has been based on
the constitutional right of a citizen’s being able to go to
his government’s bank and obtain a literal gold or silver
dollar for his bit of scrip. We have accepted the govern­
ment’s bank notes on that principle.
Suddenly, having brought the nations of the world to
the brink of ruin by their depredations, the money and
food monopolists sweep away that constitutional item,
and manipulate till they have put a threat in the lips of
our Chief Executive against his own people.
When President Roosevelt, over the radio and in the
Film Weeklies, put the edge on his voice against those
citizens who under our known laws kept gold in their
possession, he uttered an unforgivable insult to every
non-Jewish freeman in the United States. By what
law or logic is it unlawful to have gold in one’s posses­
sion, when for a hundred years it has been, and still is,
the lawful and legal basis of our currency? By what
law or logic must this gold be put into Mr. Baruch’s and
Mr. Meyer’s and Mr. Warburg’s hands for hoarding, in­
stead of being left in the hands of its citizens where they
may be protected by it against actual want? As human
needs multiply, it will come from hoarding. Is not that
just as sound a process in fact, far sounder, than making
them give it up all at once in exchange for paper scrip,
which by the same token can be declared invalid at any
old time the super-government sees fit?
President Roosevelt is a paid servant of the people. He
was elected to do their will and protect their interests.
But because it redounds to the economic and fiscal ad­
279
vantage of the money monopolists, to have certain
threats made by legislation and presidential utterance,
a great Constitutional right is swept away in one fine
official growl.
It is all proof that a faulty and antiquated system is fight­
ing for its life. Usury and financial monopoly are
doomed in the very march of human progress, and in
their place is coming a federal house of public accounts,
by whatever name it may be known.
We are no longer isolated islanders but people on this
island of the world finding that what we need is the free
distribution of the goods we have made, according to
our talents and industry—not archaic remnants of knife
handles that give a group of alien despots from the
ghettos of Europe autocratic powers over us to say
whether we shall live or starve.
280
XVII: The Handling of Our Exports
UPPOSE that side by side on a
public street are a movie thea­
ter and a lecture hall. Before
each of these gathering places,
on the same night, are signs ac­
claiming the current attrac­
tions. In the theater is being
shown a film drama, “Why
She Loved.” In the lecture
hall an expert on international
relationships is delivering an
address on “Why the Tariff Keeps You Poor.” The
admission price to both is exactly the same amount of
money. They begin at the same hour and end at the
same hour. The film is a shallow thing, reeking with
cheap sex, and expounding how one man ran off with
another man’s wife. The lecture is a startling revelation
as to why millions of men are constantly thrown out of
work when the voting citizenry fails to understand the
workings of trade. Is anyone so lacking in his knowl­
edge of human nature that he cares to wager on the lec­
ture’s drawing a smaller crowd than the movie?
Eight o’clock finds a queue half-way around the block,
awaiting entrance to the theater for ninety minutes of
vicarious debauchery. The same hour finds seventeen
“high-brows” sitting amid a sea of empty chairs, wait­
ing to have a great scholar show them how to improve
themselves both in private purse and by a reduction of
281
opportunities for future wars that might take their in­
dividual lives.
Observing such a circumstance, it is easy to be cynical.
We had plenty of caustic comment when Rudolph Val­
entino and Ex-President Eliot of Harvard University
died on the same day. The film star’s death called for
seven-column scareheads in the papers. President Eliot’s
passing was good for three “sticks” of type on an inside
page. The philosophical said: “Observe the low grade
of intelligence of the masses. How can such an erotic,
pleasure-drunk people ever rise above economic
squalor?” it* is*
OW calling the general public names is
quite as silly an analysis of the problem,
and settles about as much as the great
mass of imbecile and pernicious legisla­
tion that is placed on our statute books
every month in the year.
There are three outstanding reasons why a queue ex­
tends around the block for the movie show while the
economics lecturer draws but seventeen hearers, and
none of them has anything to do with an exhibition of
low-grade mass intelligence which the moralistic snobs
so dearly love to talk about, It takes just as much hu­
man intelligence to understand the development of the
picture plot as to receive the utterances of the lecturer.
It is not an especially low grade of intelligence, as in­
telligence. it* it*
The first reason why the crowd goes to the movie thea­
ter instead of to the lecture is that the average citizen
is a working person and his day’s labor has fatigued him
physically and mentally. He wants recreation and re­
282
laxation. He has already worked his brain for ten hours
and now he wants to rest it. Examine the seventeen
persons paying to hear the lecture, and you may discov­
er that they have done little or no physical or mental
labor. They have come to hear the economist for ex­
actly the opposite reasons that the crowd has gone to
see the film. They have a subconscious urge to give
their brains exercise, stretch their mental muscles, and
thereby hoodwink themselves into believing that they
are more “intellectual” than their fellows at the movie.
Which of course implies a certain amount of disparage­
ment of those fellows because they labor at all.
The second reason why the theater pulls the bigger
crowd is because it exercises the better “showmanship”
to get the crowd inside. That is not saying that the
theater proprietors get the crowd because they spend
more money for flamboyant placards and electric lights.
The lecturer could do the same, and while he might swell
the numbers of his hearers somewhat over seventeen,
they would largely be curiosity seekers who came to find
out why a speaker on dry-as-dust economics should go
to such display of colors and lights. Real desire to bene­
fit themselves would be a negligible item.
The theater proprietor has taught the public by past
performance that once inside, it will receive ninety min­
utes of relaxing appeal to the eye and not the ear. And
in that simple statement, lies an accurate analysis of a
phenomenon which should forever hush this blistering,
unfair criticism of the populace for preferring “cheap
entertainment” instead of “something solid” that will
raise the nation’s civic consciousness.
If the truth were known, these critics of the populace
are quite as superficial and childish in their conclusions
283
as the persons they disparage. The quality of the en­
tertainment provided by the theater-man is entirely aside
from the essence of his offering. He gives his patrons
an Eye Spectacle, which is the easiest route to the
sentient consciousness. The lecturer offers them an Ear
Spectacle, which is the hardest route to the sentient con­
sciousness. ip tea*
The showman is following a law of Nature in this re­
gard, for the very world of Form provides that men and
women attain to a constantly higher plane of conscious­
ness by experiences rendered in mental pictures. Even
words taken through the ear have to be transformed into
mental pictures before they can be absorbed into the
reasoning faculties and thus become Intelligence. The
lecturer by his very instrumentality has created a sales
resistance which the showman dispenses with entirely.
If the lecturer could reduce his findings and his informa­
tion to the eye form, that is if he could contrive to photo­
graph them and project them on a screen, he might fill
his hall to capacity—provided he truly convinced the
public that in choosing his attraction instead of the erotic
film it was learning something to its everlasting advan­
tage and financial improvement.
But no, the lecturer adopts the tedious, energy-expend­
ing ear method, and offers only himself, his flag-draped
rostrum and his water pitcher as the totality of his eye
show, and then berates the crowd next door for leaving
him to declaim international economics to empty chairs.
284
HE third and last reason why we cannot at­
tract more people toward an interest in
fundamental principles, national or inter­
national, is again twofold: The public
knows in its Eternal Mind, or its Greater
Self, that the material offered is malicious­
ly bogus under our present machinery of civilization,
and that what will be offered cannot possibly be true.
Even when it is disposed to tolerate this suspected chi­
cane, on the chance that something of real profit might
be gleaned, the material is treated technically and the
very vocabulary employed is well-nigh a foreign tongue
compared with that in daily usage.
Now a technical word, let it be understood, is a word
arbitrarily concocted and employed to describe an ab­
stract principle or process—in other words, something
that cannot be quickly transformed into a mental picture.
C
]J The auditor must transform what he is hearing into
word pictures, or mental images, or it is outside his func­
tion to understand it. Naturally! Brain cells galvanize
only to mental “impressions”—another term for the
same thing. While his brain is fresh at the beginning
of the lecture, he contrives to do this. But the speaker
goes on declaiming abstractions and technicalities faster
than the auditor can interpret them into picture images.
Soon he has to give up. We say he is “bored.” Some
say derisively that “it is beyond his intelligence.” It is
nothing of the sort in either case. No matter what the
quality of intelligence, if the informant continually
lapses into a language which the auditor does not under­
stand, the latter is not to be blamed for not being able
to absorb the discourse.
285
OW all this may seem a verbose way of
opening a discourse on How Business
Will Be Done Between Nations Under
Christian Economics. But it calls atten­
tion to some of the chief reasons why peo­
ple appear so “dumb” concerning interna­
tional malpractices and therefore let the hundreds of lit­
tle kings ruling over them “get away with” such venal
authority as is constantly exercised to the public hurt.
First, if information concerning international rela­
tionships, commercial or political, were available in the
visual form for picture image making, if it were true in
essence instead of camouflaged chicane, and if it were
expounded in a tongue that could be easily interpreted
into tacit picture images, we should have such a meta­
morphosis of interest in civic affairs that we might re­
peat in a couple of generations the attainments of
Periclean Athens.
Therefore, taking a leaf from the methods of the show­
man and the lecturer, let us see if we can get a simplified
eye version of how we as individuals are affected when
our statesmen and scholars talk profoundly of the tenets
of international trade, foreign commerce and finance.
For these are not far-off exotic affairs like the residence
of Santa Claus at the North Pole or the effects of dis­
eases among the tribes of Tahiti. They are fundamental
matters of organized social life that motivate whether
you have a job and a bank account or have not a
job and a bank account. On an understanding of them,
reduced to a few simple illustrations, rests the possibility
or probabilities of you or the boys among the fifty mil­
lion children’s ultimately having to meet death on a gory
battlefield where chunks of shrapnel blow brains into
286
glorified sweetbreads. C| Let us see if we can get a sim­
ple grasp of what international trade really is, what it
does to the nation engaging in it, and how it affects the
fortunes of the humblest citizen, whether or not he
knows anything about it. We must understand the fal­
lacies of benefits from it at present, before we can grasp
the reasons for drastic alteration under the Christian
Commonwealth. To understand what happens at pres­
ent, in fact, is to automatically discern the innovations
which the theocratic State will actualize.
OW in the vaunted political economies of
the past, from Adam Smith to Bertrand
Russell, we have had grandiose accounts
given to us of the benefits which a nation
like America unquestionably enjoys from
international trade.
Everybody has swallowed this as naturally as the three-
year-old swallows the myth about Santa Claus. It was
supposed to be one of the secrets of national prosperity.
Statesmen during our boom era when our virgin west
was being opened, indulged in a perfect mania of estab­
lishing and extending trade with other nations. Everyone
concurred in the assumption that the bigger foreign trade
we had, the greater our resultant prosperity. If a clear­
brained thinker arose and cried: “ It is a falsehood, all of
it, and you and other nations are really hoaxing your­
selves to your ruin,” he would have been burned at the
stake as a heretic or a radical.
Now, when a national or an international situation is
presented to us where the truth of his contention is
demonstrated, men want to recognize every cause but
the right one—from the world war to sun-spots. They
287
seem ready to perish wholesale, rather than to grasp
some fundamental facts.
Every schoolboy knows, let us say, that the philosophy
behind the advantages of international commerce was
based on the circumstance that countries differ in cli­
mate, nature of products, and standards of living which
make the goods of one country cheaper or dearer than
those of another. It is further admitted that it must be
to the social advantage of certain countries to exchange
goods peculiar to their soils and peoples for goods made
by distant peoples and of a similarly different essence.
€J This is nothing but beneficial barter. It is the old
transaction of the fisherman swapping his fish with the
shoemaker for shoes, and both profiting by the exchange
because the fisherman had more fish than he wanted to
eat, and the shoemaker had made more shoes than could
possibly be worn by himself or his family. Only in the
case of nations, it is stepped up to the international
scope and includes ten thousand items. Very good!
No question of economic profit-and-loss enters into such
a swap, so long as both parties have a glut of their own
goods and get all the value inherent in the articles ex­
changed. But when such values are arbitrarily watered
by the process of adding the synthetic paper inflation
called profits, ultimately the arrangement must go
askew. This must inexorably follow because men are
going to mark up these synthetic inflations “for all that
the tariff will bear,” instead of by a standardized rule
that applies equally to both commodities exchanged.
If the inflated values tacked on were equal in every in­
stance, one would wash out the other. But they are
not. And when the bartering is done on an internation­
al scale, these hypothetical and excess values must show
288
up the inequalities in the bartering. These fabricated
inequalities do appear, and cause no end of mischief.
But instead of canceling them, or appearing appalled by
them, men accept them as a natural result of the system.
C| They are labeled and accepted as international trade
balances, jfc*
Now a lot of ordinary folk think that international trade
balances are the surpluses left over on one side or the
other when one country has shipped more goods to an­
other country than the second country has shipped back
in kind to the first. In other words, if England ships
seven fishes to the United States, and the United States
ships England ten pairs of shoes, the international trade
balance is the three fishes which England is still owing
America for the ten pairs of shoes she has acquired and
used. $ $
This would be quite so if the exchange were always and
forever in kind. But it is not in kind. Men have long
since translated the values of all goods in terms of the
moneys of the various countries. These moneys have
been erroneously based on the metals in them or the
values those metals would bring in the world’s markets
as metals. Therefore the moneys as articles in them­
selves have a recognized value in themselves quite apart
from the goods which they affect to represent, and are
subject to different fluctuations.
Having inflated the values of their goods, therefore,
“for all the tariff will bear”—that is, all the fabricated
paper profit that can be charged without killing the
trade—men translate the differences in their fabrication
on either side into the current worth of certain metals,
to wit, gold and silver.
They do not adjust the balances in fish or shoes owing
289
in terms of more fish or shoes to be exchanged in a later
season. They arbitrarily “write off” their paper profits
by transferring back and forth certain quantities of
precious metals whose true values may be utterly foreign
to the values of the goods they affect to represent.
This again would be quite all right if such silver and
gold kept a consistent value with the worth of the goods
bartered, or if it could be utilized by the consumers of
each country for exactly the same purposes as the fish
or shoes wanted by each, which first caused the swap­
ping. ijf
But such tokens of wealth are utterly foreign to the na­
tures of the exchanged goods, being strictly without
worth in themselves except for ornamental purposes.
Moreover, no country considers its currency or specie as
worth exactly the values of any other nation’s money. A
rate of Exchange also enters in to snarl up the situation
and work more havoc.
Instead of the three fishes coming back to America to
adjust the trade for the ten pairs of shoes, England says,
“We will send you a certain amount of minted ore which
neither of us can eat or wear. You will probably find
that you can swap this minted ore for castor-oil or neck­
ties, and so the trade balances are adjusted between us.”
But America retorts, “We can’t use castor-oil and we al­
ready have neckties. What we want is the three fish for
which we consented to ship you the shoes. Our bellies
are actually hungering for the fish, not for your substi­
tute of castor-oil.” England says, “We’re sorry but the
trade will have to stand. If you want fish, take your
minted ore and see if Japan will accept it in trade for
three fish.” America acts on the suggestion and discov­
ers that Japan will send the three fish, not for the minted
290
gold but for smelted steel with which to make guns to
fight China. So America uses England’s minted gold to
pay workmen to dig up and smelt her steel to send to
Japan for England’s defaulted three fish.
It does not seem to occur to anybody that on the basis
of the marked-up values which we call the Tariff, we
are by no means trading value for value but are merely
engaging in the sharp practices which have brought us
economic ruin internally.
Strictly speaking, when England could not give us the
three fish in exchange for the ten pairs of shoes, hand­
ing us money-tokens instead, she still owed us three
fish, because we needed the fish and could not eat the
gold; and only in this fashion could there have been an
equitable exchange.
But no, England does not give us the fish. We have
already sent the shoes. And in supplying Japan with
the smelted ore for the fish we desired, we have given
twice and received but once! We are left holding the
money-tokens which we cannot eat, nor even make into
good pocketknives, as symbols of what we have lost
in actual merchandise.
Someone argues, “But aren’t all nations in the same
boat, and when they desire an item which their country
does not contain, does not the principle work for them
as well?” ± 9
Indeed yes; but witness what is happening: Real trade
in kind leaves balances which are not adjustable.
England owes America the fishes and will continue to
owe America the fishes until the end of time. The mint­
ed ore she has sent instead has done nothing but put
into negotiable form the arbitrary, synthetic and non­
existent values which the international manufacturers
291
have added onto their goods. Because they can occa­
sionally “cash in” these synthetic values, like speculators
did in the 1928 stock market, these manufacturers and
merchants have come to believe over many generations
that they are real, that they have actually created some­
thing out of nothing.
Translate this non-erasible debt of the three fish in an­
other way, and the chaos is still worse—
Let us suppose that, instead of the nation as a merchant
sending over ten pairs of shoes for England to buy as a
personified merchant, the ten pairs of shoes have been
made and shipped by ten different individuals who can­
not live unless each one receives a fish. If England sends
back but seven fishes, it is primary school logic that
three of those American shoemakers are going to die
of hunger, assuming that only by eating fish can they
live. ± ?
Those three shoemakers each cry out angrily to Eng­
land, “I can’t eat your minted ore. My understanding
was that if I made a pair of shoes and shipped them to
you, you would return me a salmon that would save me
from death by starvation. Now my system is such that I
can derive nourishment from nothing but fish. As there
are no fish here in America—else I would have traded
my shoes here instead of sending them overseas—I am
in danger of non-survival until you have kept your half
of the bargain.”
But England only shrugs her shoulders and says, “We
have run out of fish. Couldn’t we interest you in a nice
shiny chunk of Newcastle coal?”
“No!” cries the American shoemaker. “I can’t eat coal,
and besides, I can get plenty from our own Pennsyl­
vania. I want fish. Keep to your bargain!”
292
England closes the matter by saying: “We can’t keep
our bargain and as we have already worn out the shoes,
we can’t send them back. We’re sorry. You’re just out
of luck. And please don’t mention the matter again if
you care to retain our friendship.”
Is this a silly metaphor? Consider that each one of those
ten shoemakers is a diversified industrialist who must
have returned to him a peculiar and indispensable prod­
uct, or his industry cannot survive. There you have one
phase of the fallaciousness of profit in foreign trade.
For under ten thousand different names and aspects, this
process is happening all over the earth, every month in
the year. Real trade in kind actually leaves balances
that are not adjustable—and arbitrarily paying them off
in a foreign substance which home industries cannot
“eat” without other shrinkages of values, is tantamount
to the practice of the incompetent bookkeeper who bal­
ances his books at the end of the day by feeling in his
own pants-pocket for the six cents to make his balance
true. Over a given period one country or another has
piled up a glut of goods that it should have sent to
some other country to complete its bargain.
To continue our metaphor: England again has a sur­
plus of fish; but necessity has forced activity in the
American fishing industry, and when England proposes
a new swapping with her fish, she is answered: “Too
late, good friend. You failed to keep your bargain in
kind, and we have found ways to get fish from other
quarters. So no more shoes to you!”
This angers England, caught with tons of decaying
fish on her hands. She bridles and says: “Call in
your boats from the Newfoundland banks and agree to
trade with us, or we will send battleships and destroy
293
them!” America retorts, “Try it and see what happens.
You may get blown to bits, yourself.” The quarrel
mounts, and the two recent traders are at each other’s
throats, destroying each other’s properties wholesale.
The blatant false economist solemnly preaches “Trade
follows the flag” when what he should honestly say is
“The flag follows trade” ; the flag symbolizing, of
course, military duress in some form or quantity. An
example of this is supposed to be causing the tiff be­
tween Japan and China at this moment.
Or if America does not retort to England, “Go ahead
and shoot and see what happens,” she says, “All right,
go ahead and ship your fish to us in competition with
the fishing industry we have developed because you did
not keep your original bargain. We will make you pay
a penny tax on every fish you ship to us, so that your
fish will cost the fish-eater in America more than those
which we catch off Newfoundland. Thus you will find
no market over here.”
England retaliates and says: “If you take that reprisal
against us, we will slap a similar tax on your shoes
shipped to England for other items besides fish. If we
can’t sell our fish in competition with your fishermen,
perhaps at a lower price because our new fishing staff
works for lower wages, then you can’t ship any more
shoes over here. How do you like that?”
America says, “We should worry. You need our shoes.
When your want becomes acute enough, you will buy.”
fj England says, “The devil we will! If you are going
to act so uppity, we will get busy and learn how to make
our own shoes. It might be a good thing, anyhow.”
So England proceeds to set up a shoemaking industry
and slaps a tax on American shoes to stop people from
294
buying them in England. America has slapped a tax on
England’s fish to prevent Americans from buying them
in America. They are thus protecting home industries
from foreign competition.
This tax is called in polite language, a Tariff!
Its reprisal nature is camouflaged by the alibi that it is
truly necessary to protect American manufacturers and
American toilers from a lower standard of living that
allows goods to be produced more cheaply abroad.
Its real effect is to develop and increase home industries
and stultify, not enhance, international barter.
It works to render trading between States more difficult
and complicated, not to encourage it. Reprisals and un­
discharged trade balances in kind have forced the neces­
sity for each nation to find ways to make goods at home
that otherwise they would have continued to swap with
one another. So the creation of fallacious profits has
worked to bring international commerce to as complete
a standstill as possible.
Again as in home affairs, such synthetic inflation of val­
ues has worked a form of economic suicide.
But no one seems to note that such arbitrary fixing of
values ahead of their basic cost values, in human ex­
penditure of producing energy, has done all the mischief
and made whole nations independent of one another
commercially, jfe** t?
No one has seemed to grasp that a recognition of the
foreign values in minted ore, in other words, the intru­
sion of money into the trade, has really wrought the
havoc.
If the manufacturer had not adopted the practice of
cashing-in on his fabricated synthetic profits by con­
verting them now and then into money, tinkling the
295
coins for a time, reveling in how “rich” he was by hav­
ing them, and then immediately releasing them back
into the channels of inflated trade, he would have kept
international barter wholesome and equitable and there
could have been no gluts of goods in any country, for
each would have continued to swap item for item as
their needs or lack required or prompted.
Is it any wonder that the prophets declared money to be
the root of all evil?
Yet we have by no means exhausted the list of mis­
chievous effects of such international speculation. Let
us see what happens when under the duress of a short-
suited bargaining system, America begins to develop
her own fisheries and England builds her own shoe fac­
tories—
UPPOSE that America found that she had
an unsuspected wealth of fish just off the
coast of Maine, procurable with great
cheapness, whereas England discovered
that because of her coal deposits, cattle for
hides, and concentrated non-agricultural
population, she could really make shoes at one-third
what they were formerly being made for in America. In
such case, it would seem that both peoples would be
gainers if the Americans again swapped the fish foods
so easy for them to procure, for the shoes which the
Englishmen were discovering they could so readily man­
ufacture. But this assumption rests on the circumstance
that each nation as a merchant negotiates the exchange
for the whole populace of each country. When the ex­
changing is done by private persons in each of the coun-
296
tries, not respectful of one another, and calloused to the
interests of each other, more chaos is created.
Let us say there are now twelve American fishermen
engaged as private and isolated concerns in supplying
the Englishmen who have now gone to shoemaking.
They are thus all in competition with one another to
grab the English business. So they not only have to
put the price of their fish down below what fishermen
might be getting in England—that is, the home market
—but they have to cut prices on one another after they
have met the English figure. In addition, not only must
these twelve cut under the English fishermen, and under
one another, but they must likewise fanaggle to cut un­
der fishermen from Japan, Russia and Germany, all
equally rapacious to land the English fish trade. This
devastating competition not only whittles their chances
of sale down to a ruinous nothing, but it works equally
as disastrously on the English shoemakers. Here is
why. 5 $
Assuming that because of the great cheapness of fish
the whole English nation turned to a fish diet, it would
mean that the cost of living would automatically go
down. By eating the cheap fish offered in a cut-throat
market by Americans, Japanese, Russians and Ger­
mans, the English shoemaker finds his expenses reduced
to a half or a third. At first glance, this would seem to
be pure gain.
But, remember that minted ore called gold is only used
between nations to adjust their fallacious trade balances.
The Englishman must really pay for the bulk of his fish
in shoes, a direct reversal of conditions between the two
countries just a generation before.
The English shoemakers have all become rivals for the
297
home market, to supply which they originally began
business. Each one, to get business, must contrive to
undersell his home rival, then he must contend with
foreign rivals, for other lands have shoemakers too. The
expedient for doing this is to clip wages. The manu­
facturer says, “Why not? Aren’t the people cutting
their expenses by eating all this cheap fish?”
So the workman immediately becomes the scapegoat for
the “industrializing” process under way. Presently he
finds his wages forced down by as much as the cheaper
food has cheapened his cost of living, and so he is right
where he was to start with, before the great world fish-
glut began.
Now consider the American fisherman. He is pulling
up hundreds of thousands of tons more fish from the
Atlantic to supply this English demand, which means
he is working harder, and business seems to be booming.
But he is taking his pay in shoes from England, where
prices are being hammered down to bed-rock among
competitors. Which means that the harder he works to
pull up fish, the cheaper fish becomes in England. But
the cheaper fish becomes in England, the lower English
wages go. And the lower English wages go, the cheap­
er English shoes become in America. That means that
whereas the American fisherman is shipping more fish,
and more cheap shoes are coming to America in pay­
ment, the pressure of competition soon lands more shoes
in America than its population can wear. English shoes
are then worth a mere pittance, and excess stocks are be­
ginning to pile up, to drive their value still lower.
Suddenly, buying of shoes stops in America till the pop­
ulace has the chance to wear out the shoes it has al­
ready acquired. That means the English manufacturer
298
cannot get payment for more shoes till prevalent stocks
are moved by wearing. He cannot meet even his cheap
wage bills, and lays his men off “till times get better.”
So English shoemakers have no wages to buy. American
fish. So the English demand for fish falls off. And
thus, by their very industry, the workmen of both coun­
tries are brought to want.
It is an ironical fact that the workmen of both countries
would have been just as well off not to engage in the
vicious circle of activity at all.
It is the competitive system of bogus and non-existent
profits that has really wrought all this false prosperity.
CJ Witness, however, how differently the system oper­
ates under the Christian Commonwealth.
JHE new system of foreign commerce that
is on its way under Christian economics,
like all the internal national affairs of men,
says: nations must trade with nations as
units, not as a million competitors of
various bloods.
This international trading must be established on the
known consumption of each nation, of the goods which
any number of nations exchange.
Foreign commerce must then go forward on a basis of
exchange of exclusively native products, always to be
paid in kind—that is, in actual goods, not in a fabricated
symbol of wealth in tokens of minted ore with their
own peculiar value independent of the goods they af­
fect to represent.
If England has not shipped enough goods in kind to
America, to balance the value of goods in kind, then
the balances due will be carried forward into another
299
season. But the populace of each nation must be bene­
fited by the full amount of the barter and with no fabri­
cated, fictitious, speculative, paper profits added—since
those are not actual but merely disturbing values that
will sooner or later throw the whole international gear
of commerce out of plumb.
When two nations, as empire Corporations, thus trade
with each other officially as units, they will buy only ac­
cording to the needs of their people—that is, each for
a specific market, and never strive to dump into each
other’s countries, merchandise that must compete with
that already being manufactured in such countries, since
that starts a vicious circle that will ultimately ruin both.
America will carry on a foreign commerce, indeed,
but it will be in goods of which the American people
have a surfeit, or which they make deliberately to fill
the requirements of the customer-country in order that
goods may be brought back in exchange which are not
procurable here in America owing to either soil or cli­
matic conditions.
It is not known to the great rank and file of the Ameri­
can people, that all the fuss and feathers being made
over foreign commerce and the “profits” of internation­
al trade, concern only 10 percent of the total goods man­
ufactured in the United States from year’s end to year’s
end. ± *
This fact is not emphasized to the citizenry, in the inter­
ests mainly of a group of international German Jews
who derive vast wealth from juggling international ex­
change concerned in it, or who can use it as a means
of manipulating price levels of industrial products both
here and abroad and keep all men of all races in a state
of servility, ip 5 $
300
The nonsense of the claim that the international com­
mercial fabric of the nations would fall to pieces if the
Reparations Payments be not conceded, would be
laughed out of court if the common people understood
the facts, t?
No business corporation is ever threatened when only
ten percent of its sales are of a precarious nature and
ninety percent of its trade is certain, and consistently
paid for. Such a corporation would merely write off
the precarious ten percent into the cost of manufactur­
ing and absorb it into the more stable ninety percent.
But a group of international Hebrews does not want the
common man to know that. The common citizenry
would step on the international exploiter of its com­
merce tomorrow, if it recognized its condition as slave-
hood to these alarmists who see “the ruin of commercial
institutions” in every gesture made toward curbing them
and their predatory practices or toward enlightening the
average citizen about their despotism over his job and
bank account.
“Nothing must be disturbed!” Despite the present
wholesale breakdown of a fallacious Water Tank system
erected on ignorance of true economics—which is really
so simple that any 12-year-old child can grasp it—these
international parasites must be perpetuated in their
august debauchments. Their nation-wide press says so.
Their demagogues and Soothsayers work overtime to
point out what inestimable benefactors they are to the
whole human race.
They are nothing of the sort!
Under the incoming Christian Commonwealth, the very
nature of the new economics is going to shear them of
their power to dominate and loot in the name of inter­
30!
national trade. For let it not be thought that the incom­
ing Commonwealth is going to be confined to America
alone. There is every prospect that it is going to be in­
stigated in America, as Professor Davidson implies in
his Pyramid Significances.
But out of America, first in England, then in Germany,
then to all other civilized countries of the world, it is
going to grow and flower, and demonstrate its humane
“workableness” so that other nations will be enticed to
follow suit from the sheer success of its fundamentals in
dealing with the ills which human flesh now suffers.
As the other nations of the world similarly incorporate
and set up their Boards for International Commerce, the
collapse of the competitive, false-profit system will auto­
matically eliminate the necessity for “the flag to follow
trade” and of the military army to enforce unjust tariffs
and trade reprisals.
The natural outgrowth of this new order is that interna­
tional peace will truly come, because there will be little
or no need of the military to enforce different varieties
of trade reprisals!
So Christian economics works for the actual establish­
ment of the Kingdom of God among men, not by preach­
ing texts at them, nor making them good by silly legis­
lation which no one group can enforce, but by introduc­
ing a government under which pernicious practices can­
not be carried on.
The more one considers it, the more uncanny and start­
ling are the perfections of the whole revealment. The
protection of the private citizen in his life and his prop­
erty, is extended over his sustenance, his employment,
his health, prosperity and national safety.
302
XVIII: Paying the Professions
|AVING followed the Common­
wealth pattern of economic
government up to this point,
many persons who have read
the first edition of this work
have said: “I get the general
idea insofar as it applies to pro­
ductive occupations. What con­
fuses me is how the program
operates in regard to the non­
producers — doctors, lawyers,
ministers and journalists, even artists, scientists and serv­
ants. Surely these are necessary in our complicated
civilization and must be adequately compensated, even
though they take no wealth from the ground. How
then are they to be paid for their services under a sys­
tem that contemplates the whole nation as one vast man­
ufacturing plant? If we dispense with money— ”
“ But we are not going to dispense with money,” I have
found myself interrupting. “We are going to dispense
with fluctuating and manipulated currency and change
over to the bank-account form of handling and paying
out wealth. Furthermore, as for compensating those in
the professions and fine arts, barring some specific cases
which I shall mention later, the whole arrangement pro­
ceeds exactly as at present. 1 am speaking now of the
private citizen’s transacting his affairs.”
What we must one and all get through our heads is that
money is merely going to take a different form, and
303
have a more substantial basis of issuance. You are go­
ing to spend it just as facilely as you do at present, in
fact a great deal more so, because on the first day of
each month you will find that more funds have been
placed to your credit.
It may shock you a bit at first to understand that if you
haven’t spent your year’s allowance by December 31st,
whatever is remaining is going to be canceled on you.
That is, no unspent balances are going to be hoarded
over into the next year. On the other hand, you won’t
have to worry about your next year’s supply’s running
out on you. So long as you are an industrious worker,
doing your job with reasonable efficiency exactly as at
present, you are going to find, on the first of each
month, that your nearest branch of the Commonwealth
Bank has placed a new, and if possible a larger monthly
credit for you to draw against.
What the Commonwealth is really going to discard, fig­
uratively speaking, is the bag of gold and silver disks
that you were obliged to carry around with you in order
to acquire things and which you had to keep filled, or
starve, but which you were only allowed to fill as
some food or goods monopolist let you have work.
And the same discarding goes for this paper evidence of
money called bank notes, that are just as hard to obtain
and which, spent or lost, are equally as unreplaceable.
<J Under Christian economics, your Commonwealth
Bank is going to give you a cheque book once a month.
You will go to your bank and apply for it, exactly as you
now go to your Motor Bureau once a year and obtain
your annual license plate for your automobile, but, let
us hope, with a great deal less uncivility and public boor­
ishness. Because if your local Federal Bank official
304
turns out to be an arrogant, surly fellow who treats you
like a box office clerk now treats you at a successful
musical comedy, you have only to get enough of the
voters in your district to mail in a recall vote on that
young man, and he awakens some morning to find him­
self demoted from his job and put back among the “ 1-Q”
workers. The “say” is yours, whether you are to let
public servants treat you as if you were breeders and
carriers of pestilence.
On the cover of your personal cheque book is a small
photograph of yourself, securely pasted and imprinted
with the bank’s seal, as is also a facsimile signature of
yours, the way you are going to append your signature
to your cheques.
Under the new currency system, Uncle Sam’s tellers and
bookkeepers would be just as lynx-eyed to see that no­
body overdrew his account as bank clerks are at pres­
ent. They would be keeping an open chequing account
with every citizen in America, but with the vast differ­
ence that the only overdrafts that could be possible
would be those of spurious cheques, because the limit of
the cheques that could possibly come back against an ac­
count will have been determined when the book is is­
sued. is* i?
Let us say that with this cheque book properly allotted
to you, you arrive home under the new system and find
that your wife requires a basketful of groceries. You
take the market-basket under your arm and go to the
nearest grocery. Grocery stores, being owned by the
Great Corporation, are located according to the service
of neighborhoods. As they are therefore not on a com­
petitive basis, there is no silly trimming of pennies in
sales prices to undersell the grocer across the street. All
305
goods are laid out and displayed exactly as at present,
plainly priced according to what it costs Uncle Sam to
get them up to that particular counter after figuring all
farm, labor, and transportation expenses, but those ex­
penses, of course, paid in turn with credits to those in­
volved in rendering such services.
You buy a dozen eggs for 25c, a pound of cheese for 25c
more, a can of baking powder for another 25c, and a
new floor broom for still another 25c. These items and
prices are only used hypothetically here to explain to
you how the system operates.
Here you have spent a dollar. You take out your book
and write a cheque. You know the number of the neigh­
borhood emporium where you are doing your buying.
You may be an utter stranger who has just moved into
that district, but that makes no difference. Your picture
is on the front of your cheque book and the clerk only
has to glance at it to know that you have the right to
sign a dollar cheque in payment for your goods. Also
he sees that your signature corresponds. You fill out
the store number on the cheque and sign your name.
The transaction is closed. You take your purchases and
go home.
The clerk, on the other hand, affixes his emporium num­
ber on the blank reverse side of the cheque and sends
it to the Commonwealth clearing house. Like any bank
cheque now, it finds its way to your account and is de­
ducted. Having been deducted, it is cancelled with a
punch or stamp. At the end of the calendar year, any
balance remaining in your account, from your monthly
credits, is cancelled.
“But,” you protest, “I may not want to spend my bank
balance in a given year. Maybe I want to own an auto­
306
mobile, or buy an expensive radio.” i *
Well, why not? Do you think the Christian Common­
wealth would hinder you in the slightest from thus im­
proving yourself? It exists to aid and protect you, and
not to function as autocrat over your expenditures. Do
you want a new car that costs say $1,000? Well, you
do the same thing that you do now. You buy it of Un­
cle Sam on time, exactly as you now buy it of your
corner dealer who has to charge you ruinous interest
in order to keep some money-lending finance company
in business with which he discounts your notes. Uncle
Sam doesn’t discount any notes. If the purchase is
within your means for the year, you sign the papers
agreeing to pay for it by the month and get your car
without one-tenth the red tape and credit-investigation
processes of the present. Once a month you merely drop
in and write off one of your cheques. However, in order
to encourage the citizenry in thrift and budgeting ex­
penditures from month to month, the Federal empor­
iums will dispense commodities on a “cash” basis, ex­
cept in the cases of those necessary items whose cost is
sufficient in amount to warrant spreading payments
over a period of several months.
This process is necessary to keep people of little financial
acumen from beggaring themselves in the later months
of the year after a splurge in its opening months when
their account is new and fat. Of course as you become
a more highly paid worker, just the same as at present,
your allotment of monthly cheques is fatter.
“But,” you say, “are these cheques not good for money
as between individuals? Must we always trade with
Uncle Sam? What if I have a leak in my bathroom
and must call a plumber—whom I assume must be paid
307
—or supposing my wife hires a maid to wield the broom
I have bought at the store? Can I not write a cheque
for such services?”
Certainly, in the case of the maid, but as we shall present­
ly see after we have discussed the professions, public
servants like plumbers are taken care of by quite a differ­
ent method. As for the maid, she does her work and is
supposed to receive a dollar for her afternoon’s cleaning.
You take out your handy cheque book and fill in her
name for the dollar, signing your own—precisely as you
would give her a cheque at present. But by no means
will the maid go to the grocery with that cheque and
buy herself a pound of prunes for supper. Cheques are
not negotiable, for if they were, private tradesmen could
spring up again dealing in secondhand discarded goods
and compete with the Commonwealth. Thus the sys­
tem would be upset. The maid has to wait until the
next morning when the Commonwealth Bank where she
has her account, is open. She deposits the cheque you
have given her, along with cheques any other persons
may have given her for her services, and the sum is
credited to her account. Against it she draws cheques
on the grocery store precisely as at present.
The only disadvantage that has to be put up with under
this system is, that you cannot send your small daughter
to the store or send out your cheque book promiscuous­
ly. That is to say, when you pay a bill you must be
present in person, so that you and your signature may
be identified by the covers of your cheque book.
Of course in common sense, practical operation, if your
small daughter is known to the corner grocer, who also
recognizes your bona fide signature, a cheque written
at home and handed to your child in payment for goods,
308
will be accepted. Only the clerk may reserve the right
to refuse such cheques if for any reason he has cause
to doubt the accuracy or authenticity of the cheque so
detached and presented to him.
“But,” you say, “suppose, having bought and received
my new car, my wife and 1want to take a trip to Mis­
souri to see her folks. How does the currency system
work out then?”
Christian economics replies: “With far more facility and
less inconvenience to you, my friend, than under your
present predatory banking system. In the first place,
your face and signature on the cover of your book iden­
tify you no matter where you turn up and want goods.
You are not obliged to buy goods or trade in any given
district. The Commonwealth isn’t conducting a Soviet
under a Stalin. You don’t have to hunt someone to
identify you to strangers, as you do at present. Sup­
pose you’re driving through Indiana and want a noon
meal in a public restaurant and a new tank of gas for
your car. You go into a Commonwealth dining room
and feed as sumptuously as you think you can afford.
Your bill is figured up and you scribble your cheque,
flashing your cheque book, one glance at whose photo­
graph identifies you. And the same at your Common­
wealth filling station. You continue on your way. Both
dining room cashier and filling station man turn in your
cheques, with their indorsements to their local Branch
Bank, and four days later they show up at your home
bank for deduction from your credit. Also, you ride
in mental peace against highwaymen. A holdup man
may take your wife’s rings—which won’t do him a bit
of good since he can’t turn them into money with any
fence—or he might even order you out of your car and
309
ride away in it. But unless he meant to use it himself
forever thereafter, he would have no motive for robbing
you. In other words, he couldn’t dispose of it for negoti­
able currency as prevails under the loose and pernicious
system of the present—which by some species of in­
sanity, vast numbers of people want to hold onto so
tenaciously, despite the thousand and one other con­
veniences and benefits of the Commonwealth system.
OU say, “but I am not a carpenter, or a
machine tender, or a farmer, or a gov­
ernment clerk. At the present time I am
a professional man. I am a dentist in a
small city now making about twenty-five
hundred a year net for myself, providing
business is good and I collect at least twenty-five percent
of my clients’ accounts. How does the Christian Com­
monwealth assure me of a square deal in my profession,
how are clients allocated, and how can I forge ahead un­
der the new method of public administration so that by
skill and industry I can make sixty-five hundred a year?”
<| The answer is simplicity itself. Why anticipate that
the new method means complication or confusion?
Were not all Christ’s pronouncements while He was on
earth, so simple that a child could understand them? It
is only the predatory, satanic systems that are intricate
and confusing, such as humanity is living under at pres­
ent. ±jr
What is now to be set forth applies to all professional
men. And that means doctors of every description,
lawyers, anyone who in any manner now serves the
public for a recognizable fee after having educated him­
310
self in an institution of repute and been pronounced
efficient by the awarding of a diploma.
Instead of setting up a tawdry little office in a given
neighborhood and then starving to death while “build­
ing up a practice” as at present, you will find yourself
following even the present trend of professional life
and congregating with your professional brethren in a
medical center.
The medical center of the future, under Commonwealth
economics is going to be more than a mere repair shop
for broken-down physical machinery. It will embrace
every department of human therapy. The day of the
all-round practitioner, like the all-round tramp printer,
has already begun to pass.
The dentist is truly a very highly specialized surgeon.
Technically speaking, he treats tooth ailments. In es­
sence, he mends the bones. He is a conserver of the
human anatomy, a reconstructor of the physical mech­
anism in a particular location in the body.
Departments of dental science will be considered as
fundamentally therapy as present-day departments of
bone disease or stomach ailments, or blood hygiene. Of
the nature of the professional duties, their classifica­
tions, and divisions, we are not now concerned, more
than to say that under Christian economics medical at­
tention will be costless to the individual. The mender
of the human anatomy in any respect will be looked
upon as the great humanitarian, the public servant su­
preme, who works not for lavish financial reward but
for the advancement of his science.
This is not grandiose Utopian sentimentality. Make no
mistake about it, physicians and surgeons will command
remuneration commensurate with their skill and popu­
311
larity. But that remuneration will be predicated on the
demand that they have aroused for their services be­
cause of their skill and renown. The “specialist” who
politely advertises by catering to squeamish and pam­
pered neurasthenics, the doctor who builds a spectacular
practice through any type of publicity, will be quite as
much the pariah among his professional brethren as the
faker or quack who now takes large space in the news­
papers to flaunt his prowess to the public at large. The
present trend year by year lies in this direction.
As for this remuneration in the opening phases of the
Commonwealth’s installation, the reports on the past
earnings of professional men as explained in the chapter
on the gathering of economic data for the issuance of
the Corporation’s Preferred Stock, will be carefully cor­
related, examined and studied. Insofar as may be prac­
tical, under Federal District Medical Boards, physi­
cians, surgeons, dentists, specialists in disorders of the
brain, the nerves, the bones and the blood, will at first
be classified as to qualification by their earnings over a
period of years, i Insofar as is possible, plausible and
practical, the same rate of earnings should be continued.
If a professional man has been coming along over a
period of years, showing a gradual increase in earnings
under a growing practice, it will be taken for granted
that such a professional man is becoming more expert,
more popular, in more public demand, as time passes.
Christian economics must take cognizance of this de­
velopment of talent and industry, and will endeavor to
maintain it.
In practice, it will be left to associations of surgeons,
medical men, dentists and specialists, to determine
among themselves and make recommendations as to the
312
remuneration they believe each classification should re-;
ceive. Thereupon, they will be graded as to yearly sal­
aries or “Q’s” which will then be paid them out of the
public Treasury. Their institutions will be similarly!
maintained. tj*
Lest a medical oligarchy grow up in great medical cen­
ters where a few popular specialists have wittingly or
unwittingly gathered the reins of power into their own
hands, to the handicap or detriment of the young and
aspiring doctors, it shall be the privilege of the latter td
withdraw of their own volition from such centers and
set up what shall first be known as clinics and dispensa­
ries, that, as they demonstrate their usefulness and facili­
ty for public service, shall receive full State aid for en­
largement into Medical Centers in their own right.
As none of these are on a competitive financial basis,
there can be no motivation behind such establishments
other than that of the personal desires for wider ef­
ficiency, or public service, both of which will automati­
cally translate into higher Qualification Ratings for the
individual, i? .4*
Taking the case of the dentist, not so many years have
passed since he was given the same professional classi­
fication as the barber. Indeed, many barbers were also
dentists and vice versa. The association causes a smile
today. Dentistry has become a great science instead of
a side line of prying the remnants of a decayed cuspid
out of the human gums with a fork.
By the same token, the day is at hand when it will cause
as much of a smile—or a wince—to think of the individ­
ual dentist’s operating in his cubby of an office, and
drilling or sawing at the human mouth as a lone individ­
ualist and inflicting the enforced clumsiness of the all­
313
round practitioner On the helpless patient, who knows
in advance that he is going to suffer and by all the laws
of individual practice is rarely disappointed.
Dentists in our great cities are even today associating in
mutual offices and dividing up the work according as
each may have special talent.
HEN we come to consider the lawyer as a
professional man, we confront a totally
different set of ethics and economic cir­
cumstances. Some wag has said that
there are fifty percent more lawyers than
are necessary to plead or delineate the law,
in consequence of which we have the plethora of laws
we do, to keep the remaining fifty percent in business.
<J The situation is not so bad as that, but any honest
lawyer will confess that over half of his professional
brethren are starving to death, making only a bare pit­
tance or turning to politics or debt collection as a means
of bettering themselves and salvaging the money put
into their education.
The uglier fact confronts us, however, that 80 percent
of the cases which are brought to lawyers to adjust
today, whether of the criminal or civil practice, and
whether they ever see court or not, are cases resting
upon infringement of the economic code.
Squabbles about property rights, breaches of commercial
contract, damage suits for property recoveries, a thou­
sand and one shades and tones of controversy that are
rooted ir the barbarous, water tank code of ruthless com­
petition, or seizure and retention of property, give the
American lawyer the bulk of his law business. With
these, making up so high a percentage, are administra­
314
tion of property trusts, receiverships, bankruptcies, and
the crimes and felonies accompanying the violation of
the penal code, or embodied in it, in which some individ­
ual or group of individuals has sought by the perpetra­
tion of two wrongs to make a right. Under Christian
economics and the elimination of the competitive, profit-
snatching system, this whole 80 percent of law business
automatically slides into limbo.
What, then, shall become of our lawyers?
Does it mean that they shall be turned from even their
meagre practices of the present and sent out to find
themselves in other branches of industry? By no means.
That would mean injustice and confusion, and as often
repeated, the Christian method works not the slightest
injustice on a single soul. It could not be the Christian
method if it did anyone injustice.
The higher administration in the Commonwealth State
would be swift to recognize that in this fine body of
keen-brained men lie the potential administrators of the
new society.
Here is a great classification of brilliant minds, minds
trained in niceties of judicial procedure, of human prece­
dent, of fine tones and shades of justice and injustice.
Badly abused and castigated under the vicious dog-eat-
dog systems of the present, they cannot be themselves.
They must swallow their pride and often their scruples
in a thousand cases and accept the tawdry business
dumped into their offices, through bitter economic neces­
sity. In time they become calloused. They say: If I
don’t take this case, Attorney Jones will, and I’ll lose
that fat fee which my wife and children sadly need at
home.” He accepts the business, gets a bit of stigma
around him for his success, and then in a sort of self­
315
hatred, sets up a defense mechanism against his own
conscience by becoming a specialist in such practices,
arguing that it is in the Bill of Human Rights that even
the vilest scoundrel shall have legal protection. What
he truly means to say is, “My conscience hurts, but 1
need the money, and I know of no other opening or call­
ing for my peculiar administrative talents.”
The average lawyer is at heart an exceptional citizen.
He must of necessity be a keen intellectualist if he hopes
to succeed. In this great class of counsellors in the civil
code, lie the born dispensers of social mutualities under
Christian economics. To cast them aside, ignore them,
and say that because the competitive system has swept
away the need of their talents they should be penalized
economically for a great step upward in human evolu­
tion, would be to commit a sort of administrative crime
against the body politic.
HE only class of practicing attorneys that
would truly be required under the Com­
monwealth arrangement would be public
prosecutors and public defenders. I say
again, we are not altering the political,
law-enforcement structure of our country
in the least. The only crimes that would come before
them under the Better Order would be criminal in es­
sence. That is to say, civil suits for breach of contract
based on the economic competitive system, would be a
thing of the past, and lawyers would be largely restrict­
ed to the prosecution and defense of persons breaking
the criminal law. These in turn would be of far less
moment and fewer in numbers than they are at present;
for the vast majority of the crimes of violence, or crimes
316
against the person, are now predicated likewise on the
economic struggle.
The great legal systems that have grown up around the
characters and functions of such men as A1 Capone,
either in their prosecution or their defense, would be
knocked down like a house of cards if the transition of
the present currency system wrought their elimination
by abolishing all chances of gain. For the first time in
modern history, lawyers could truly apply themselves to
an examination and administration of the laws construc­
tively and wholesomely, not exposed to the duress of
financial temptation to exert superhuman efforts and
accept huge fees for the saving of unmitigated public
rascals from extermination.
Those lawyers now so profiting, who resent such a
metamorphosis of their profession, are but public ene­
mies themselves, since they profit from social depreda­
tion and are fundamentally sharers of the loot from such
pillage, no matter how finely camouflaged by “legal
ethics” their efforts may be.
317
: will be from the great body of fine, domi­
nant, intellectual citizens now making up
the ranks of the legal fraternity, that the
administrators of the Christian State are
derived. And they will be compensated
quite in keeping with the present value of
their services in upholding or defending a predatory
system. It is accepted by Christian economics, as here­
inbefore emphasized over and over, that the present
financial earnings of a man of any vocation or profes­
sion are a more or less equitable criterion of his financial
worth to the Commonwealth as a whole. The Common­
wealth goes one step further, however, and says: “We
work to find a way not only to see that you are com­
pensated for all you are indicated as receiving at present,
but to guarantee the steady inflow of such receipts and
find out if it is not possible for you to increase them for
yourself, without the possibility of any periodic inter­
ruptions of such earnings.”
There is no reason why men of the legal profession
should only be compensated to the extent of their earn­
ings at present, provided they are not the type of coun­
sellors who derive handsome dividends from giving aid
and comfort to the enemies of society. They will be tak­
en into the great new judicial-executive machinery, ex­
actly as the present judiciary is recruited from the ranks
of the nation’s legal counsellors, and given an economic
surety on a recognized salary basis instead of the take-a-
chance fee basis.
The same high honors that accompany the elevation of
the practicing attorney when he ascends to a place on
the bench, will be doubled and tripled under the incom­
ing Commonwealth, with exactly the same approbation
318
on the part of the legal layman as now is forthcoming
and attendant on an elevation into the judiciary.
Like all other phases of the Commonwealth, it is the car­
rying forward into a goodly crystallization the trends
that have been paramount in modern affairs over the
preceding half-century. That is why those trends have
been manifest at all, or existed as trends, to point the
way to that which was eventually to be socially actual­
ized. ± ?
Lawyers as a class, and the higher exercise of their func­
tions in the judiciary, constitute the cement that holds
the social structure in place and keeps it doughty and
symmetrical through all human vicissitudes.
This must not only be recognized, but utilized to the
nth degree, and correspondingly remunerated.
JHOSE who continually hark back to the in­
quiry, “How are all these people to be
supported? Does it mean that the United
States should form a corporation and sim-
ply spill out Preferred Stock and give away
jts dividends like a drunken German print­
ing press turning off marks during 1923?” are continual­
ly missing the basic fact that these compensations are
all in force right at the present time. That is to say, it
makes no difference to the ultimate wealth of the nation,
whether given men get given quantities of goods or serv­
ices by buying them with money received from big
legal fees, or buying them with cheques drawn on a Fed­
eral Bank that holds the accounts of their dividend cred­
its. In either case, that much wealth is allotted to them
by the body politic and expended on their personal re­
quirements. So the arrangement under the corporate
319
form of administrative government to pay them divi­
dends commensurate with their present commercial
evaluations, is only a matter of a change in the system
by which such credit is rendered available.
In the practical working out of the system, however, it
means an uninterrupted flow of their compensations to
them year after year, and an assurance of their stability
and continuity, instead of knowing first a feast and then
a famine according as a predatory element manipulates
the goods market or the financial machinery of the
world.
Few indeed are the attorneys of the present who do not
consider it a blessed release from financial worries and
upsets, to be accorded a place on the bench with a salary
corresponding to the talent required for their elevation.
t| Contrary to the spleenish diatribes to which they are
subjected by the legally disgruntled, the great rank and
file of American attorneys are honest men, given to the
highest code of ethics that maintains in social life out­
side of the practice of medicine, and are the cream and
flower of our official citizenry. Given their choice be­
tween honest contests for the actualization of human
equity between man and man, and shady cases based
on greed and grab, the great mass of our attorneys will
unquestionably select the former as a matter of whole­
some manhood and loyalty to the coded principles which
they are acknowledged to interpret.
They can be relied upon as a class more than any other
element in our citizenry to see that the public gets a
square deal, when economic pressure is lifted from their
shoulders,
And why should it not be lifted? Are these men not
truly servants of the State in the ultimate analysis, al­
320
though the pernicious practice maintains of rewarding
them privately?
The old-time chancellor of England was known as “the
Keeper of the King’s Conscience.” By the same token,
barristers of today are in truth keepers of the Common­
wealth’s conscience. Let them continue to be such, and
they shall by no means be denied their rewards.
321
XIX: Racial Qualifications for Benefits
ND now I come to one of the
most important chapters in this
book. How are we going to
handle the Negro problem, the
Mexican problem, the alien
problem, the Indian problem,
the problem of the constitution­
ally improvident? From where
are our domestic servants to be
recruited, or the hired hands
necessary during seasonable
farm work? What is going to take the place of that
great mass of unskilled laborers that has been a head­
ache to provident humanity since the beginning of time
and yet is no less useful or necessary for getting the
menial work of the world accomplished? Are we to
shovel out monthly benefits to hordes of persons, just
because a lucky accident caused them to be born in the
United States, supporting them in idleness if they do not
choose to work, patiently tolerating those types and
temperaments that drift along from year to year, satis­
fied to make enough just to keep body and soul together
and not bothering their pates over anything better? It
is something to think about.
It would be one thing, the reasonable person agrees, to
install an ideal Commonwealth program if all the citi­
zens living under it were inclined to be thrifty, indus­
trious, law respecting, and respectably proud, eager each
one to maintain his prestige among his fellows, and do-
322
ing his part toward the common welfare insofar as he
was able. It will be quite another thing to take human
nature as we find it—good, bad and indifferent—and
say that we can penalize the thrifty, industrious, sensi­
ble and respectable, by asking them to contribute toward
the support of vast numbers who will only work when
hunger drives them to work and who “loaf and go fish­
ing” the moment they get a few paltry dollars to main­
tain their existence.
Especially in the South we have the Negro problem. It
is not exactly the Negro problem that we confront in
the North, and respectable, intelligent colored people
will understand perfectly why I make the distinction. In
the North we have the better class of Negro, the man
who, with the exception of certain elements that have
congregated in great cities like Chicago, is well-nigh
white beneath his skin, who conforms to the white law
and behaves after the white psychology in most social
intercourse. In the South we have a pardonably primi­
tive creature, lethargic by temperament, congenitally
lazy, content to live in a rickety cabin his life around,
and lay off from any employment offered him the mo­
ment he has received enough to buy him a few groceries
and a bottle of “corn.” It would be imbecility to give
such a person a minimum of $83 monthly dividend.
Racial quandaries would at once arise among southern
whites that would work almost as much social havoc
as would the Negro as a pauper. Furthermore, liberally
supplying the constitutionally improvident, white or
black, with living-funds, only to have them write their
monthly cheques for stakes in crap games, would be still
more flouting of the Christian economic program.
Anyone too, with a statesmanlike grasp on social funda­
323
mentals, must realize that disposing of the problem of
8,000,000 adult aliens, together with their hapless prog­
eny, by declaring off-hand that they will be deported
back to their native countries all at once, is the sheerest
necromancy. If we shipped them out of America 2,000
at a boatload, it would require something more than
4,000 vessels to transport them, or a fleet making hun­
dreds of separate voyages. These people cannot be
herded into permanent concentration camps, as a war
of comparative short duration might make possible. We
cannot callously leave them to starve. Naturalizing
them by shoving them through a gigantic naturalization
hopper would be a travesty on American civics.
Out in the southwest, and up and down the California
coast, are thousands of resident Mexicans but one step
removed from Indians. They cling instinctively to
aboriginal conditions of living and fight all attempts to
introduce them to facilities of modern sanitation and
convenience. It was not so long ago that the Santa Fe
Railroad engaged in an altruistic gesture and determined
to build reasonably comfortable cottage homes for its
Mexican section hands. Neat box houses were con­
structed all along the railroad’s right-of-way. As soon
as the builders had departed and assignments of these
cottages had been made, the Mexicans either went out
in each backyard, put up an adobe mud hut and lived
in it as formerly, or they tore up the floors in the modern
cottages, threw them out in the yards and wallowed as
before on the dirto f the ground.
Handling such classes of people is an enigma in any
State. Down in the southern mountains there are
“white folks” who vacated the cottages which Mrs.
Roosevelt tried to construct for them and hied them­
324
selves back to their mud-chinked log cabins as quickly
as they could, selling the utensils which the CWA pa­
ternity furnished them, and breathing sighs of satisfac­
tion as they clustered once more around a tawdry cabin
fireplace instead of modern stoves.
Too many inexperienced altruists accept that this sort
of reaction to progress and improvement is a sign of de­
generation, or proof of the hopelessness of making any­
thing worth while out of humanity in general. They
want all the “lower classes” at once to abide by their
own notions of what living conditions should be, and
expect that a family jerked from a hovel and placed in
a commodious and equipped modern residence will re­
act in its habits and behavior like others to the manor
born. When they will not, when reflexes from genera­
tions of poverty and circumscription make them tend
back to their own norm of social and domestic deport­
ment, these inexperienced altruists and sociologists are
seized with a vast discouragement and the poor folk
whom they seek to help, but by no means under­
stand, come in for a blanket berating which only makes
the social strain worse.
Sensible men and women, with the brains to plot out a
better system of economics than the water tank fallacy,
must exercise those brains and take note of such ele­
ments. They must understand the motives behind them
in their seeming animalistic conduct, and be compassion­
ate and analytical in educating them slowly and con­
structively. As a matter of fact, most of the older gen­
eration among such castes and classes is well-nigh hope­
less of regeneration anyhow, and the fact might as well
be faced. Even as it was the younger Mexican genera­
tion that put the wooden floors back into the Santa Fe
325
cottages when the old folks had died off, observing for
itself the better rank and title it gave them among their
white neighbors, so it must be the rising generation that
we bring up to a 14-year educational system and supply
with the correct instruction instead of the mass of use­
less academic bilge that is termed education today in the
interests of the water tank industrialists of the fable,
that we count on for gradually overcoming the general
poverty of the “lower classes” throughout the nation.
Cj The wise statesman takes note of all these factors.
He overcomes them by setting up conditions to which
people conform without always realizing that they are
conforming. It makes such comformity the “popular
thing to do.” But if he be truly wise, he does not expect
to accomplish his purposes all in one gesture. Nor does
he detail his social stipulations too minutely. In the
present situation, however, it is necessary to create some
sort of structure that provides attention, education and
physical sustenence for such castes and classes, without
enslaving or regimenting them, in sheer self defense of
the Commonwealth program as it applies to those not so
handicapped by instinct and tradition. How to do it?
The answer, like all the other answers to the Common­
wealth proposals, is simple—
The castes and classes represented by the indolent South­
ern Negro, the Mexican Indian, the undeportable alien,
the illiterate and improvident backwoods white, the con­
stitutionally improvident and shiftless, known to be such
by their more industrious and respectable neighbors in
any district, become wards of the Commonwealth, un­
der the Department of the Interior, on much the same
basis as the affairs of our Indians are now handled, but
minus the present exploitation features.
326
NDERSTAND that in the fundamental set­
up of the Commonwealth a national census
of a new and totally different order must
be made. It would seem the most feasible
and practical thing, to make the County
the basis of this census-taking as well as of
the later administration of the Commonwealth machin­
ery. Thereby would counties assume a new importance
in our political and social structure, whereas under pres­
ent methods the county is gradually losing its value and
significance. j%f
As this census is compiled—of the status and prospects
of each domestic or personal unit for benefits to be re­
ceived as the plan swings into action—it will be a com­
paratively simple matter to determine from such data,
those who qualify under the stipulation of the Christian
plan as hereinbefore set forth, and those not yet far
enough evolved, intellectually or sociologically, to grasp
“what it’s all about.” Then sincere and conscientious
workers for the installation of this better economic ar­
rangement would have small difficulty in discriminating
—local conditions being fairly well known and esti­
mated. Jfc*
Prospective beneficiaries who refuse to submit their
data, or who cannot by reasons of incompetence or illit­
eracy, should be swiftly and ably allocated into a classi­
fication known as wards, to be treated with and disposed
of as such by the county boards for improvidence!
In other words, it is a matter of raising the status and
jurisdiction of the county agent or commissioner and his
county farm officialdom, to greatly expanded and re­
vitalized powers, commensurate with the additional
numbers of persons brought under such protection, not
327
necessarily paupers but “constitutional dependents” on
the Commonwealth’s bounty.
In other words, it amounts to this: that by their own re­
fusal or inability to comply with the stipulations of the
Commonwealth for the economic metamorphosis of the
whole American citizenry, such persons or citizens have
thus automatically designated themselves as unfit to re­
ceive such benefits, and have exempted themselves from
equitable participation in such benefits. Thereby are
they self-styled as ineligible and unqualified, and until
they do qualify in the estimate of the Commonwealth’s
more enlightened representatives, they must be treated
as wards of the nation exactly as Indians of our western
reservations are treated today. Only instead of being
concentrated under one Indian Agent and his deputies
on a specific reservation, such persons may be scattered
on certain “public lands”—meaning real estate—all
over a given county. Within such jurisdiction their in­
dividual eccentricities or improvidences would be dis­
closed and studied. The territory encompassed within
a given jurisdiction would thus be small enough to per­
mit of individual investigation and treatment of cases in
point.
328
UT consider the plight of such people if
they elect not to come under the jurisdic­
tion and investigation and recommenda­
tions of such Commonwealth County
Boards. If they refuse absolutely to bear
any economic responsibility in the Com­
monwealth, they cannot market or sell their crops or oth­
er local products except to individuals in isolated cases,
and even in that event they can only receive bank
cheques in payment, which are non-negotiable and can
only be used through the Treasury Banks of the Com­
monwealth itself. This means that to even enjoy the
increment from disposing of a dozen eggs and a gallon
of corn, they must present themselves at the Common­
wealth Bank and open a bank account. If they are will­
ing to labor and are yet too illiterate to follow the rami­
fications of the Commonwealth in its social machinery,
they can be quickly and intelligently allocated in lucra­
tive jobs the year around by the County overseers. To
all intents and purposes they are economic paupers in
their respective localities, under the social onus of such
classification, and yet able and eligible to climb out of
it at any given moment that they choose, by reasonable
conformity with the Commonwealth’s economic fiats!
<
][ Under the Commonwealth’s provision for treating
the whole citizenry as an economic unit, it means that
common schools will no longer be a financial drain on
the individual taxpayer, so there need be no limit to the
number of schools provided for the education of the
youngsters of these persons. At these schools a system
of education should be taught that I am going to outline
and suggest for the approval of my more enlightened
fellow citizens in a future volume. Thus, automatically
329
the rising generation of these people will be assisted out
of the old shiftless habits of living and thinking merely
by the environment that is being precipitated to force
them along in the correct direction.
This outlining of the new educational curriculum under
the Christian Commonwealth is adamantly important,
since it will do no good to install such a better program
for our bedeviled citizens of the present and then have
the education of their children in our schools proceed
along the old water tank philosophies. I have given no
little thought to this matter in the curriculum that I ad­
vanced for the students of Galahad College in North
Carolina during the summer months of 1932, and shall
endeavor to issue a volume similar to this one on the
subject as the whole people of our country become ac­
quainted with the munificent advantages of the Com­
monwealth program.
As the demands for unskilled labor in any county district
are known to the Federal officials therein, it will be no
difficult task to offer such employment to the Common­
wealth’s “wards” and compensate them accordingly.
The federal Department of the Interior, vastly increased
in scope and size, will then be in a position, having all
the known data of such cases under its jurisdiction, to
make recommendations for the allotments of goods-
credits to such districts and have them alloted much
after the pattern that Uncle Sam follows on his Indian
Reservations now.
This means in effect, that the great slovenly mass of the
indolent and illiterate Negro populations of the South
fall within a classification and under a jurisdiction which
should have been installed promptly on the liberation
of the Negro from slavery at the close of the war be­
330
tween the States. Socially controlled as a unit, the im­
provement of these colored persons can be pursued in­
telligently and efficiently instead of by the devil-may-
care, rule-of-thumb methods obtaining since the break­
up of the Confederacy. Southern people themselves
would welcome such a solution of this well-nigh im­
ponderable racial enigma.
If it be argued that human abuses would creep into any
such system, that thereby the Negro himself might be
reduced to a state of peonage, the answer is that no sys­
tem ever evolved in a mortal world can be one-hundred-
percent free from abuses; but as abuses usually have
been a result of a stern economic duress in the past, those
assigned to the management of such a “ward” program
could not profit personally from such abuses and there­
fore they would be minimized automatically. Besides,
the whole United States, by its very economic education­
al system, is undergoing a rebirth of social responsibili­
ties. Depredations or persecutions by individuals would
not long continue without discovery. Boards of Ap­
peal for persons made to suffer inequities or iniquities,
would soon adjust the human balance without working
harm to any individual. After all, these wards are
classed as such by their own improvidence. Let them
stop their shiftless and indolent conduct, and they swift­
ly graduate from its indignities. At least they have a
chance. Today they have no chance whatsoever. They
are peons in fact, without the name.
331
HERE we would obtain our supply of do­
mestic servants, is therefore no problem
whatever. At no time nor in any place
has it been specified herein, that if one
person desired a servant to labor for him
and was of a rating to compensate him,
and another person or set of persons desired to work for
the first and derive increment from such employment,
that the Commonwealth program prohibited such em­
ployment. For instance, well-trained butlery is well-
nigh a profession unto itself. It commands, and should
receive, much higher compensation than the basic bank
credit allowed to a ditch digger. There is nothing hu­
miliating or menial about it. Waiters and waitresses,
kitchen help, people to clean and scrub and polish, per­
form absolutely necessary functions in the body politic.
Very good. Hire them. But compensate them through
a more facile and equitable system.
The Department of Labor now maintains, in nearly
every city and town in the land, what amounts to a Fed­
eral employment bureau. Why should it not be ade­
quately used? Persons of unskilled qualifications but
who do not care to be counted as wards of the County
Boards, should list themselves with these Federal Em­
ployment Bureaus, which over a long period of time
would become general clearing houses for labor of every
description. If a person desires a servant, let him ap­
ply to such—with a great deal more safety as to charac­
ter and abilities than maintains through the wild-cat em­
ployment agencies of the present, since the Common­
wealth has each person’s entire history and character-
background to draw upon. It is part of the Common­
wealth’s data.
332
Very good. The servant is employed. If he be listed
as a ward, or comes out of the ward class, such wages
as were paid him would be tantamount to the basic Com­
mon Stock dividend for unskilled and employable per­
sons who do qualify, or figured from that basis. Thus
he would cease to be a ward by such employment. As
his services commanded more than the Common Stock
provision, he would have such increase added to his
Commonwealth bank account and made available for
him to enjoy and expend in any given year. What could
be simpler or more equitable to all parties? The em­
ployer writes a cheque on the Commonwealth Bank
each Saturday night to cover such services and the ser­
vant deposits it to his own account precisely like bank
practices of today. The sum is deducted from the em­
ployer’s account and added to the employee’s. The ser­
vant has a chance of increasing his buying power over
any given year, by laboring, while at the same time the
deductions from the mass of produced goods do not af­
fect consumption balances. In practice, it amounts to
the servant’s consuming—by such transfer of credits—
what the employer would otherwise be expected to con­
sume. The chances of a glut at the top, therefore, are
ultimately negated. And the glut is what the Common­
wealth is basically seeking to provide against.
As for our undeportable alien population, we must take
a statesmanlike attitude and look for our remedy in the
education of the second generation over the proper span
of time. It is undoubtedly true that thousands upon
thousands of aliens would return to the countries of
their nativity voluntarily, rather than remain in the
United States under the Ward supervision. But for
those who do not, the solution is simple.
333
We have only to definitely utilize the economic and po­
litical machinery already provided and existing under
the Water Tank system. Only utilize it, not let much
of it rust out, or fall to pieces, as it is doing at present.
C
|[We shall find no alternative, scour as we may!
334
To Sum Up
HIS BOOK has been written,
not to take its reader through
a bewildering maze of minute
details as to how each and
every profession, trade and hu­
man vocation shall be account­
ed for and treated with under
the metamorphosed program
which it propounds, but to ac­
quaint you for the first time
with the realization that there
is in existence—and waiting for consideration by a be­
deviled and despoiled human race—a fine new economic
system that partakes of none of the evils and injustices
of Capitalism, Socialism, Syndicalism, or Communism,
but enables everyone to profit from the “common
wealth” without the slightest infraction of “rugged in­
dividualism.” i$ f
Necessarily, such a volume can only “hit the high spots.”
It can only present for the reader’s consideration the
basic tenets and arrangements of so general and sweep­
ing an innovation, leaving it to lesser writings or the in­
genuity of the typical American to figure out how this or
that could be adequately managed. Really it provides
for almost no change in our general habits or modes of
culture. Certainly it does not invalidate or overthrow
any of our political institutions. Instead of changing or
eliminating our American governmental departments,
it enhances and strengthens them. It works no injus­
335
X X :
tice to any particular race, only as it may seem to de­
prive the unqualified—solely because they are unfit—
of the benefits of “common wealth.’’ It inhibits no man
in the exercise of his talents, his artistic impulses, or
his esthetic or religious liberties. It simply treats with
production and finance—and the masses of persons de­
riving their sustenance from such—as complete units,
and finds a way to see that our citizens are compensated
with the full benefits of their consolidated labor, admin­
istered individually.
F COURSE it follows that certain changes
in minor fields of activity are bound to
come in the wake of the greater economic
or compensatory changes. For instance,
the professions of authorship and journal­
ism are bound to be altered somewhat in
character, as the institutions alter that give the writings
of such specialists circulation. More and more our news­
papers will become merely government news agencies,
confined strictly to news and naught else, maintained as
government institutions of an abstract character, re­
sembling our weather bureaus of the present. Expres­
sions of journalistic opinion will find a broader and more
wholesome vent, on the other hand, through hundreds
and even thousands of privately owned and personally
conducted publications, government-printed for the
journalist-publisher but maintained through contribu­
tions of interested readers for subscriptions, instead of
from revenues falsely supplied by manufacturers of
breakfast foods, automobiles, toothpaste or other com­
modities. By the same token, clergymen of all creeds
will be supported not only by their Common Stock cred-
336
its as qualified citizens—thus giving themselves and
wives unfailing personal revenues—but by the contribu­
tions of congregations as at present, added to their
Citizenship Benefits, strictly as honorariums.
In the matter of the trades, if your house springs a leak
in its plumbing system, the arrangement is equally sim­
ple. A call to the Realty Board of your district brings
a properly compensated artisan to mend the same, or a
plasterer to fix the ceiling, or a paperer to do over your
dining-room, exactly as you now consider it entirely
fitting and proper to phone the water department of your
community if the meter breaks and water suddenly
starts flooding your cellar.
All of these artisans labor for the City, the County, the
State, the Commonwealth, exactly as the employee of
the water department labors for your local municipality
today and is paid by an order drawn upon the City Treas­
urer or Comptroller—all a part of the service now due
you for keeping your water rent settled. There are no
philosophical obstructions in these items that require
elaborate expositions.
Frequently, however, I am challenged as to the equity in
an arrangement that arbitrarily cancels a man’s unspent
bank balance at the close of the year, thus seeming to
destroy the totality of his industry and thrift each twelve
months. But again those challengers fail to grasp the
more enlightened tenets of economics being brought
into plaj7
.
Keep it clearly in mind that it is not for the credits them­
selves as accumulated hoardings that a man or a woman
is enticed to labor, under the Commonwealth program,
but for a credit rating as a rating—in other words, a
Qualification!
337
What matters it that balances are canceled on December
31st at midnight, if immediately a fresh monthly credit
is posted for each citizen to begin his drawing upon?
It is absolutely necessary to get people to see that the
only way not to have a glut of goods that plugs up the
economic flow of prosperity, is by making them buy and
consume those goods within a definite period. If a man
or a woman has a $700 balance left in the bank the last
week in December, it is far better to go out and buy a
new car and have it to enjoy, and thus help to keep
thousands of laborers in employment at making more
cars, than to have that balance cancelled—or to lose it
under the present system by giving it to some stock shy­
ster, some racketeer, or some improvident beggar in the
name of professional charity, or, for that matter, have
it confiscated by the government to maintain a demoral­
izing federal spoils system such as the current Adminis­
trative bureaucracy.
If it be argued that this does not make for thrift but en­
courages people to be spendthrifts and live up to their
last cent, the answer is, that the thrift comes in striving
for a higher Commonwealth Qualification, improving
oneself so as to receive heavy benefits to one’s bank
account from the Commonwealth’s gratitude for ser­
vices rendered the community or the nation.
The boys and girls of a newer and more civilized genera­
tion, as they come to maturity, must have ambitions and
aspirations to build up character instead of dollars, pres­
tige instead of stocks and bonds, standings of a highly-
compensated order in the community or the nation—in­
stead of hoardings of materialistic chattels that can be
confiscated for taxes, stolen by vandals, extorted by kid­
nappers, or lost through bank failures due to misman­
338
agement or financial duress.
Is this not a more wholesome and more Christian stand­
ard for them to live their lives upon, than receiving the
servile plaudits of the lower-caste envious who come to
look up to them merely for concretions of gold and sil­
ver disks or sheafs of securities that a gang of interna­
tional racketeers can render worthless by a pen-scratch
—as they juggle discount rates of Reserve Boards?
To inaugurate such a Program, work it through its time
of installation turmoil and get it out upon the highroad
of general realization, is bequeathing those Fifty Million
Children a far finer heritage than merely writing a will
whose legacies may not be worth the paper they are
written on by the time the same is probated—or even
giving them the chance to fall to and devour one another
economically under the slogan “Business is business!”
NE interesting query I had put to me on a
Sunday afternoon in northern Illinois,
should perhaps have mention before I close
my volume: “What is the status of a
married woman, after the death of her
husband who was up in the hundred-thou-
sand-dollar class and maintaining a huge estate at the
time of his sudden death, if his credits are then canceled?
Must she give up the status of living which she has en­
joyed as his wife, merely because his companionship is
terminated? Must she go back to knowing only a 1-Q
citizenship rating, or look to relatives or children for
succor?
If this point occurs to others, I tell you to go back and
read the chapter on the acquisition and disposal of real
estate, wherein it is stated that the Commonwealth al­
339
ways treats a husband and wife while living and work­
ing together, as a team, although for realty transactions
the husband must be designated the head of the family.
The Commonwealth would declare in all justice and
equity that every man’s wife is bone of his bone and
flesh of his flesh—to and for all economic purposes. The
Commonwealth would assume that such a wife had been
partially responsible for her husband’s success and for
her husband’s high rating. She should, therefore, con­
tinue to enjoy his Merit Stock dividends and the family
homestead until her own death, or until she marries again
—if she does. Then and then only, the cancellation
would occur. The matter of the status of any offspring
is not similar to a wife’s. Children have their own for­
tunes and careers to carve out, unmindful of their par­
ents. The Commonwealth provides for them against
physical want. It says, let them strive for themselves
on the completion of their schooling. That experience
is just as much their heritage as having the inalienable
right to individual recognition. If, however, a loyal
mother is widowed and yet receives her husband’s last
highest monthly increment, and it is a high one, what
Christian government is going to step into that personal
situation and declare that she shall not aid those children
to the utmost of her maternal and material ability? The
Commonwealth would be trespassing on hallowed do­
main. ± *
340
O THE thought to be kept in mind behind
this whole exposition is, that the truly
theocratic Christian State will do all that
lies within its power to help and aid and
encourage and inspire its citizens to the
maximum of their earthly accomplishment
in any given life, not to penalize or prohibit them from
this and that until life is a nightmare of rules and sup­
pressions.
What I have tried to do in this volume is to set down
my version of modern trends and tendencies under a
higher inspiration than even the perspicacities of modern
sociology. The time is at hand when these practical
alternatives must be considered and sincerely applied.
In the year 1929, the combined personal revenue of the
American people from every source—both labor and in­
vestments—was 83 billions of dollars. In 1933, just
four short years later, it had dropped by successive stages
to 24 billions of dollars. To less than one third!
Since the so-called depression started in October, 1929,
the figures of the Statistical Abstract of the United
States disclose that it had cost the American people up
to 1934, something like 48 billions of dollars more to
conduct business, and finance the management of their
personal affairs, than they received in the same period
as revenue. That money has had to come from some­
where, since those business bills were met. The answer
is that it came from savings or from “capital.”
If we made as much money each year as we were mak­
ing in 1929, when the national revenue chart showed
Business Savings of $1,896,000,000.00, it would take
us more than 25 years—a quarter century—to recover
from the losses this depression has cost to date.
341
To effect such recovery, too, we would have to prompt­
ly balance the national budget and moreover earn “prof­
its” this present year at the 1929 rate of increment and
continue it uninterrupted until the year 1960. And in­
stead of being able to do that, we are now facing a situa­
tion wherein 20 millions of people are either out of work
or relying on government employment or relief for bare
sustenance.
Our present government is running behind 4 billions of
dollars per year—expenses over all possible revenues—
and practically subsisting on borrowings from bonds.
This is the headache, the imbecile status, to which Water
Tank economics have currently brought us.
And any recourse to explaining the alternatives in the
Christian Commonwealth program is being assiduously
hushed up by the Water Tank Soothsayers, or hooted
down as impractical chimera by the racial exploiters
who hope to soon declare themselves the sole creditors
of the American people in national receivership.
But is this Commonwealth alternative an impractical
chimera? ±*
What do you think?
342
COME back to my little boy beside the
Tennessee highroad. He is now in the
sixth or seventh grade of that country
school, 1 assume, planning to go on
through the nearest town’s high school
and perhaps to college. But when he has
come from college, granted he can finish—with the na­
tion in increasing distress—he will find no place waiting
for him, small chance of employing his talents, no graci­
ous Commonwealth interested in him personally, eager
to help place him and be appreciative of his efforts to
contribute of his talents that the whole State may pros­
per.
No, the faith will gradually go from his eyes and his
small youthful face assume lines of cynicism. As he
struggles desperately to sustain his physical self—and
perhaps the little girl on the Other Side of the Road,
whom he has married—he will be driven savagely to­
ward blacker desperation.
Finally in a moment of weakness, he may commit a
crime, seizing from the Water Tank that is overflowing,
a few drops of the water which the Industrialists still
declare are their God-given properties.
Then it will be prison, ignominy, oblivion!
I say to that mother who watched the little bobbing rib­
bons on the small round hat as it receded down the lane:
“We must not let that little boy be short-suited after all
which you have tried to do for him. We, the sponsors
of this gracious new system of Christianity in economics,
are here in life, working for the public good, to try to
keep faith with you and uphold your heart.”
This finer, better system, will be inducted when suffi­
cient numbers of mature, reasoning men and women
343
recognize the dire extremity of the nation, and under­
stand the simple and equitable provisions of the Chris­
tian Commonwealth for the economic and political se­
curity and freedom of its citizens.
A preponderance of Christian men and women through­
out the nation, thinking concurrently and imbued with
the same grim determination to protect and preserve the
small boy waiting for the bus down by the mail box in
every community, can uphold the hands and lives and
aspirations of those men in the body politic who are
laboring to make the Christian Commonwealth a reality.
<| Force of arms is not necessary, to do this splendorful
thing. Public enlightenment is the need of the day.
Why not set about effecting it?
“Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul!” must
be the shibboleth of a great and exalted people, working
for the Fifty Million Children inexorably moving for­
ward. A*
Naught else can suffice, if we would endure.
T H E E N D
344
v
SO YOU ARRIVE AT THE END OF THE VOLUME
NAMED NO MORE HUNGER THAT WAS
WRITTEN BY WILLIAM DUDLEY PELLEY FOR
THE LIBERATION AUDIENCE AND DONE INTO
A BOOK BY THE PELLEY PUBLISHERS WHOSE
ADDRESS IN THE SPRING OF NINETEEN
HUNDRED THIRTY-NINE IS BOX SEVENTEEN
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY-SIX IN THE CITY
ASHEVILLE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
