{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__pelley___earth_comes.pdf","mytitle":"Earth Comes","mylang":"de"}
Design for
Materialization
k
WILLIAM
D U D L E Y
P E L L E Y
Copyright
W ILLIAM D U D LE Y PELLEY
1939
A Second Edition
PRINTED IN U. S. A.
Published by
SO U LC R A FT FELLOW SH IP, Inc.
N o blesville, Indiana
r What are ye orbs? The words of
God? The scriptures of the skies?’’
— Bailey
Earth Comes
Chapter I
SPIR IT T H IN K S
W ONDER, my esteemed fellow-mortal, if
at sometime back in childhood, you and I
had the same experience? I wonder if you
came to a moment when you paused in your
play, looked upon the universe all around
you, marveled that you had somehow come into it, and asked
yourself: "Suppose all of it had never happened!— where
would I be instead of here?” I recall clearly enough where
this wonder-thought occurred to me. I had wandered out
behind a farm-house upon central Massachusetts on a clean-
washed summer’s morning when I was approaching six. I
went out on the hillside and stood amid tall grasses. Birds
sang. Breezes blew. An ant ran up a grass-stalk, found no
further place to go and descended as it came. All the world
was lush with life. The universe throbbed with it. Then
with a sense of shock my attention came to rest on the
body that I occupied. It was a healthy but dumpy little
body. The feet were quite grimy. I believe that one toe
was wrapped in a rag. Despite my few years, I asked my­
self a question from the depths of Ageless Wisdom: "How
have I come in this little boy’s body?”
9
What was I doing in it indeed, in that vibrant world that
deployed all around me? What if all of it had never hap­
pened? Where would I be then? I knew I would be some­
where.
It seemed as though, for an instant, standing on that knoll,
a corner of the Veil of Eternal Mortality was flashingly
lifted, that despite all the assurances of my father’s theology
I had known such singing Nature a thousand times before.
How funny to be encased in that pudgy little hulk of peregri­
nating protoplasm that got dirty so readily, that had to be
fed and washed and put to bed nightly, and whose nether
portions could be spanked with such blighting embarrass­
ment! Where had all these human beings come from? Where
had the ant come from that ran up the grass-stalk, and was
it not, perhaps, quite as important in this whole grand en­
semble of things as myself? Who "thought up” this stu­
pendous concoction of natural expressions in the first place?
More than all else, if the earth-planet had not been pro­
vided, furnished and festooned with all the fauna and flora
that I had discovered to be in it up to my sixth year, how
could I possibly live the life that stretched so enticingly ahead
of me down unreckonable years?
j^jE V E R have I forgotten those fraught few moments on
that singing New England hillside, when for the first
time in my current career I had it borne home to me that
human beings, small or large, would be in an unthinkable
plight indeed if some great Prior Intelligence had not sup­
plied this earthly stage on which they might play their roles
and produce the dramas and comedies that not only give
10
£
mortality its pattern but develop Intellect to think in terms
of Form. The worlds, the planets, the seasons, the conti­
nents, the manifestations of natural phenomena, the give-
and-take of general human intercourse, would— in other
words— be a shapeless and unintelligible Nothingness, and
Consciousness in any aspect would not even recognize itself,
unless coagulations of Primordial Energy had come in ether,
resulting in the production of a stage on which Life as we
know it,' could perform.
Again and again, in a thousand plights and dilemmas since,
the same thought has occurred to me: Suppose that none
of it had "happened” ? And when I have dwelt upon that
thought, a sense of the ephemerality and unreality of mun­
dane performance has visited me briefly, taking the tragedy
from many otherwise tragic happenings and presenting or­
deal to me as something merely to be experienced— that I
ight the better be aware of myself and that I could play
my role to distinction.
It is ever a strange state of mind to explore. It brings one
back to a realization of the importance of First Causes with
Most of us, going about our daily lives, harassed
by problems raised by dependents, worried by exactions of
business, the job, the creditor who wants his bill settled by
: .half-past ’steen o’clock, are too seriously focused upon the
complications of the moment to give much consideration to
the gigantic program that may be the consummate purpose
of it all, or grasp how transient and inconsequential are the
, shock
(S
iniquities and inequalities of the whole social circumstance.
* .
We fail to sense that lifting our bleary vision from the petty
problems of the hour and striving to glimpse the immensity
1‘T u
-- J\ V
v \ y
—
A. jA f c J 'S t'**—
*i i tJX
^U( f )
of the Eternal Agenda, would give us a poise and a confi­
dence that could go far in assuaging mortal injuries and
bafflements.
So I say, fellow student of these Eternal Verities, I wonder
if you, like myself, have ever had your moments of conjec­
turing how this Grand Ensemble first happened, where you
as a thinking and experiencing human being would be if it
had not, and what the fundamental motive may have been—
or now is— for this mundane manifestation that humanity
calls the World? Certainly it is an entrancing exploration
to probe backward as we can, survey the long panorama of
what has happened astronomically, geologically, biologically,
and historically, and make shift to discover some logical and
constructive Will Power working intelligently throughout
the Great Progression. It gives us a perspective not alone
on what has happened, but what is now happening, and what
presumably is to happen in the arena we^alLthe Future.
We increase the range o f our spiritual insight merely to
grope toward such perspective. We enhance the scope of
our mental vision and raise the leveTof our quahty~of con­
sciousness. It comes Kome~to us with increasing force that
the lives we are living must bear some sort ^)T resemblance
to a^noyj^ photoplay^KaFTs already filmed but not fully
p rojected. We are living at some point of action in die sec­
o nd orthirdreeT of a seven-reel production. 1’h a twhich is
photographed and on re^iT waituig to T>e exhibited in Hie
_Great^Projection Boodi of Time cannot be altered in the
slightest particular. A lkvast masses of Kfe follow one M as­
ter Plan. T here Is a concrete~andTihexorable matrix for j l l
worlds to follow— in their integration, development, climax,
12
and decline—but we are ever volatile and unfolding spirits,
eternal and immutable, "Sons of God, not knowing what
we shall be!” If a planet be projected for our occupancy
and unfoldment, then we are grateful that it has been af­
forded us; but that it runs the course of its material history,
and even disintegrates and resolves itself to elemental World
Stuff, concerns not at all the omnipotence of Spirit. What
we want to know consciously is "how” it happened, for al­
ready we commence to grasp the "why.”
This idea—of Life as we know it at any given moment,
being comparable to a movie play as yet unprojected— we
shall refer to again and again in the pages now before us.
We are called for the moment to cease thinking objectively
and think subjectively. Christ said: "The Kingdom of
Heaven is within you!” and He spake whereof He had
greater knowledge than we to date have dreamed. All things
possible for us to experience are contained in embryonic
form within our own consciousness. In time— as we shall
know these experiencings— we shall graduate out of this
octave of Earth and assume other and mightier forms and
expressions of Self-Realization. But for the present, the
happenings of our daily lives are the "frames” of still-
pictures on celluloid, moving in front of the Eternal Pro­
jector, and we want to hark back to the beginnings of the
reels and know what is on them and why they were photo­
graphed.
Suppose, therefore, that before exploring the origins of this
planet as a stage, we consider the too-little-examined signifi­
cance of that which we call Time.
We commonly say: "The event happened yesterday,”— or
13
last month, or a million years bygone. What truly do we
mean?
t &
v
, A
K *
M EA N that it transpired at a point in the program
of Eternal Occurrence placed in relation to our pres­
ent Thinking Selves and before our current capabilities to
appreciate it as a happening involving ourselves. If it had
happened at a point that could be appreciated by our pres­
ent Thinking Selves, we would refer to it as occurring in the
"present.” So the wider the capability of the consciousness
to appreciate, the longer—we might put it— the present mo­
ment endures. Expand the Consciousness to "realize” and
we expand the duration of the phenomenon known as Time.
Or putting it in another way: Time is but an attribute of
Spirit to "think,” that is, to recognize and evaluate occur­
rence.
To get the mighty thought being offered here, consider this
simple illustration: We are standing of a pleasant morning
on the rear doorsteps of our premises, surveying the dooryard
and the garden. The field of our vision is wedge-shaped.
That is to say, the narrowest point of the wedge is located
at the retinas of our eyes by which we view the yard and
garden. We perform the feat of sight in three directions:
to right, left, and forward. To the right, without especially
moving the head, we grasp the scene before us as far as the
edge of the tool-house. To the left, we grasp the scene be­
fore us as far as the Jones property, across the Jones property
to the distant street, the roofs of neighborhood houses, the
panorama of the town, finally the distant hills against the
skyline. Our eyesight from our position on the doorstep
14
takes in a space measuring not more than a few hundred
yards to right and left in our immediate vicinity. But the
farther forward our vision carries, the broader the wedge
becomes, till its width at the skyline covers a score of miles.
Within this "field of vision,” no type of major action takes
place that we are not vaguely aware of. We are standing on
the steps in the "present moment,” we say. And yet, within
that "present moment” whole series of things happen chrono­
logically. A sparrow lights on the back-fence separating our
property from the Joneses’. The Smith cat steals up on it,
tail switching, muscles tensed for a leap. The cat springs,
the bird takes to wing in the split-second that spells safety.
The cat loses its balance and lands upon our cucumber
frames, smashing the glass. But it extricates itself and is
gone. Mrs. Jones hears the crash of the breaking glass, and
thrusts her head from her kitchen window. Turning atten­
tion from her stove, her stew-pot boils over. She withdraws
her head abruptly and bumps it on the sash.
All these things have happened consecutively in a shorter
time than it takes to tell it. They have happened, each one
either "before” or "behind” the other, depending upon which
happening we choose to consider in relation to the others.
And yet they have all happened "within the present,” or
the span of sequences which we were able to observe in one
field of vision and one sustained effort of observation. We
say, in reporting the breaking of our cucumber frames by
the cat after the bird, that "it all happened at once!” But it
did not happen at once. While it was happening, the watch
in our pocket ticked four to ten seconds. And there was
a series of separate— although related— activities in progress
15
each meaning a different thing and having a different time-
span to the participant. To the cat, the episode was a sight­
ing of the bird that lighted upon the fence, a spring to seize
it, a lost balance, a fall into glass, and a second leap out of
the broken cucumber frame to a retreat beneath the tool-
house. To the bird, the episode was an intended pause upon
a fence, a sudden avalanche of cat, and a taking to wing and
safety. To Mrs. Jones, the episode Was the noise of collaps­
ing glass, a thrusting of her head from the handiest window,
the bubbling over of the stew, and the bump on the cranium
when she pulled her head in. The bird knew nothing about
Mrs. Jones and her bumped head. Mrs. Jones knew nothing
about the cat. Mrs. Jones had rubbed her bumped head,
shut off the gas beneath her stew, lamented her messed-up
stove, and then forgotten about the whole incident when her
phone rang and her husband asked her to meet him down-
street in an hour to sign a deed. Yet to us, standing on the
back steps and grasping the integration of animate life in
the bird-cat-glass-woman incident, there has been but one
event: a feline’s breaking glass on our property which we
must replace. It stacks up thus to us purely because our
field of observation is broad enough to consider these inci­
dents of related animate life as a unit. Our consciousness
"takes it all in” with a single receptive gesture.
L E T U S go several steps further, however, and consider
the "broadening” of the moment in which the occur­
rences took place. Suppose that "single receptive gesture”
likewise took in the awakening of the cat from its snooze
in the sunshine on the Smith back walk when the bird winged
16
in sight. Suppose it went a step back of that and took in
the cat curling itself to snooze, or lapping up its breakfast
before it stretched out for the nap, or having the saucer of
breakfast-cream set down before it by Mrs. Smith, or Mrs.
Smith’s acquiring of the cat in the first place as a kitten, or
Mrs. Smith’s marriage to Mr. Smith, or Mr. and Mrs. Smith
as small children, or the arrival of the Smith forebears in
America, or even the discovery of America itself by Eric
the Red in the year 1,000. Or suppose the stream of events
could be witnessed the other way— forward. Suppose our
position on the back steps enabled us to see where the bird
went when it escaped from the cat’s claws, where the cat
went when it emerged from its retreat beneath the tool-house,
at what moment the escaped bird noted the approach of
coming autumn and migrated South, under what motorcar
the cat finally met its demise, and where the Jones family
moved when they finally left the neighborhood. All these
latter events would be considered as "looking into the fu­
ture” and as impossible to follow as it is impossible to look
back and see the Smith cat being acquired as a kitten by the
Smith household. But why are events both ways from our
position on the steps impossible to follow? Is it not correct
to say that we cannot follow them because they are outside
the immediate field of our back-steps observation? So they
occur either in the "past” or the "future.” So Time is not
a chronology of happenings so much as a recognition of a
succession of activities, only related in that we were aware
of them by the single gesture of our receptivity.
In other words, Time is that measurement which we give to
a program of events that occur consecutively because they
17
each one must be an effect growing from an earlier cause.
Several events occurred in that back yard consecutively. The
bird came winging from the air and alighted upon the fence.
The cat caught sight of it and ended its napping. It crept
along the fence and made its spring at the bird. The bird
escaped. The cat fell from the fence into the cucumber
frames and broke our glass. The Jones woman heard the
crash and moved her head through the window. Thus her
attention was taken from her stove and her stew boiled over.
In logic— if our discussion led that way— we could say that
Mrs. Jones’s stove-top became a mess because a bird decided
to rest its wings by lighting upon a particular spot of fence.
But that is not the point. W e as spectators to the drama,
observed bird alighting, cat appearing, cat springing, bird
escaping, glass collapsing, noise resulting, Mrs. Jones giving
her attention to dooryard instead of stove— all as one epi­
sode. Yet these events were consecutive and took place with­
in different second-spaces on our watch-face. Our angles of
observation and gesture of receptivity enabled us to witness
a series of consecutive acts as one incident, but the incident
"closed” when either the time-frame or the field of activity
became too large for us to encompass.
The fault, then, in knowing events before the bird appeared,
or after it escaped the cat, is one of inconvenient or limited
position for observation, not inability to witness two or more
consecutive events as a mental exercise.
^ |O W this narration may seem elementary, but it illustrates
and proves a mighty point in consciousness having to
do with omnipotent thought and its exercise in prophecy.
18
Bird, cat, and Jones woman were all moving toward an inte­
gration of events forming an episode whose outcome costs
us a dollar and fifty cents for new cucumber-frame glass;
but until the principals came into action within our field of
physical observation, we were unaware that we were about
to spend a dollar and fifty cents at four o’clock in the neigh­
borhood hardware store. Things can therefore happen suc­
cessively or consecutively, and so long as only a few seconds
of time separates them as incidents, we grasp them, or identi­
fy them, and say that they happen in the present. The whole
integration of cause and event happens in the one time be­
cause it happens within one status of fixed observation on
the part of ourselves. If a few minutes, or a few hours,
elapsed between each happening, our identification of them
as in the "present” would begin to wobble although we
might not change our position. If a few weeks, or a few
years, separated each one, the term "present” would vanish
utterly and we would talk about the same series of events
as occurring in past, present, and future. This would be
because our angle of observation would become so prolonged
that we could not mentally sustain it. Nevertheless, Time as
an item, has intervened between the happenings, whether we
are forced to measure it in minutes, days, months, or years.
Time, then, is not the length of the field of action in which
a given number of displacements occur, or in which objects
shift position, but our capacities or capabilities of making
ourselves aware of such happenings in relation to each other
and to ourselves. Or to put it another way, Time is a qual­
ity of our cognition in registering upon our minds the dura­
tion of objects in some species of movement.
19
W H A T I am driving at, is this: Our consciousness in its
present capabilities of unfoldment, is able to discern
the bird-cat-broken glass incident as extending from the in­
stant the bird appeared on one horizon until it disappeared
on the other. But suppose, instead of being able to discern
that relatively brief occurrence of happenings, we could simi­
larly encompass the seried or integrated items in the shifting
social scene for a whole day, a whole month, a whole year—
and accept them mentally as we accepted almost as the
single gesture, the tiny drama played in seconds by bird and
cat in our dooryard. We would, in other words, see a whole
years’ events as we saw a quarter-moment’s events. Time it­
self would not alter in its character, or essence. Integrated
events would be no less positive in denouement. We would
simply be enlarging our capacity for taking the consecutive
items into our consideration and calling them one item, or
one incident.
There is a definite relationship, in other words, between tran­
spiring of happenings and our comprehensive grasp of them.
The incident played out in our back yard, therefore, does
prove one thing that holds no small significance for our
analysis at hand: Consciousness as we know it, can register
consecutive events of themselves, and is not of fixed relation
to one event and none other. If it can recognize two events,
or six, or twenty, with only intervals measured in seconds in
between, why does it have to be confined strictly to seconds
as intervals? Why not the aforesaid minutes, hours, days,
months, or years? Is it not Consciousness— or ability to per­
ceive and allocate— that makes Time the phenomenon that
we commonly hold it? And is it not equally true that the
20
wider the field of vision to Consciousness, the more objects
or their movements are observable by Consciousness in that
dimension which we might define as Past and Future— or
right and left from the Present?
The Present is only the present in so far as we can sustain
the act of observation. At the current moment— or phase of
mental capabilities— we can sustain the act of observation
for intervals measured only in seconds. But if we had the
type of consciousness that could sustain the act of observa­
tion measured in hours, days, or years, then hours, days, or
years, would enter into the Present— or the Present would
be expanded. Thus is the deduction a sound one, that there
can be as many Types of Time as there may be Types of
Consciousness to perceive quantities of consecutive acts.
That something of the sort is true, is indicated by medical
reports of the effects of certain drugs upon the mind and its
cognitions. For instance, users of marihuana have been cited
as observing time-sequences as "long-drawn-out,” while users
of opium are reported to see integrated acts commonly spread
over days or years as occurring completely in an interval of
normal minutes. The marihuana user may sound a note
upon a cornet. To the ear unaffected by the drug, the note
may last for five seconds and have stopped "sounding” al­
most before it is fully recognized for pitch or volume. Not
so, to the addict creating it. The note starts as a sound in
his consciousness and he feels that he is able to alter its pitch
and volume while blowing for only five seconds upon his
instrument. This means that his mental faculties have been
stepped up to make his observations at a swifter pace. The
five-second cornet note seems to him to last for moments,
21
for hours. He is wholly unaware that he is only making a
live-second sound to the normal ear receiving it. By the same
token, he may be driving a motorcar and observe another
car approaching from the distance. To the normal person
riding beside him, that oncoming car may reach and pass
him in half a minute. To the marihuana addict, it seems
that the oncoming car is taking days, months, years, to pro­
duce itself in actual proximity.
If, therefore, two people, one a marihuana addict and the
other normal and free from the drug’s influence, were each
asked to tell how long a time was required for the duration
of a given incident or series of incidents, they would report
two different concepts of Time. Or, if all people discerned
the duration of events or the phenomenon of movement, with
the consciousness of the marihuana addict under the drug’s
influence, Time would be a somewhat different thing than
normal or universal humanity conceives it to be at present.
It is not relevant to remark here that no matter how anyone
looked upon it, the same interval would be required for a
complete revolution of the planet, or its progress entirely
around the sun, because stepped-up perceiving Conscious­
ness might have the capability of discerning the whole planet
turning a revolution in a twenty-four-hour time-span that
seemed but fifty of our seconds. How does any one of us
know that it takes the earth twenty-four hours to revolve
completely, or three hundred and sixty-five of such revolu­
tions to complete its total of whirls in encircling the sun?
Only because we perceive that the earth does turn, in rela­
tion to the sun, and we divide the interval of turning into
segments and call them hours— or minutes or seconds— do
22
we get the concept of "time” in which to measure the dura­
tion of consecutive incidents or acts. Once again, it is a mat­
ter of perception or discernment.
U N D O U B T E D L Y all of us have teased ourselves men­
tally with the wonderment of how Time may appear
to the winged insect in the sunset, that was only born that
morning, and reached middle age at noon. H e considers
himself, we conjecture, as a very wise and venerable insect
by virtue of having been conscious in his accepted life-span
for one whole day. We know, of course, that there are in­
sects that may be hatched at sunrise and attain to full growth
as the day proceeds. Endowing them hypothetically with
the same unfoldments of consciousness as ourselves, as life
progresses, we are given to a certain sentimentality that their
existence is so short-lived. But we are comparing their life
of a single one of our human days with our own life-spans
of seventy years. What if the insect’s perception of Time
were correspondingly faster than ours, and he reached the
same unfoldments of self-awareness between sunrise and
sunset that we reach from babyhood to senility?
Again and again we come back to the item that Time is
what we are capable of perceiving as occurring within a cer­
tain frame of happenings; and when we get outside of that
frame, we deny that Time exists, or it exists in an altered
aspect. What we truly mean is that we cease to exist as the
consciousness-factor that gives time an essence of being.
Truly, there is no Time— only our own capability of identi­
fying consecutive happenings and the extent of their move­
ments in relation to each other. As we shall see in our con-
23
sideration of the subject from a Higher Dimension in a mo­
ment, the present moment always endures. It will go on en­
during, even after we have ceased to function consciously—
or rather, physically—and by virtue of always enduring, it
will demonstrate that all things happen in the one enduring
moment, and by being only one moment—and eternal— it
really is not a moment at all and does not have identity.
That one enduring moment as we accept it, however, is more
or less one incident to the Consciousness able to encompass
all the events taking place inside it.
So, when spirits come down and enhouse themselves in the
functions and physical perception of the body, they really
are but chopping up the One Enduring Moment into recog­
nizable pieces which their circumscribed observation can as­
similate mentally.
^ H U N D R E D — or a thousand—illustrations might be
expounded, attesting to this Consciousness-creation of
Time as mortal minds conceive it. Take for instance the
cessation of Time that occurs with the inhaling of ether for
a surgical operation. All of us who have encountered that
extraordinary experience know that— if complete discarna-
tion does not occur—we recall inhaling the fumes, sinking
into a void of strange darkness and in the twinkling of an
eye opening our eyes to discover that hours of worldly time
have elapsed, that the offending member has been removed,
that whereas it was mid-afternoon an instant ago in the op­
erating room, it is now early evening in the hospital compart­
ment where shades have been drawn to shut out the street
lights. What has become of the interval of time to our Con-
24
sciousness? We only know that one hour, two hours, or five
hours have passed, because of the rearrangement of earthly
properties about us.
Once in my young manhood I had the experience of cranking
a Ford car in gear, having it run wild down hill with my
body beneath it. When I finally released my clutch on what­
ever it was I had grabbed, I felt a bump and a crunch, and
that car disappeared as though it had disintegrated sound­
lessly into atoms. Relatives near me during the mishap said
that I was "out” for a matter of ten minutes. If they hadn’t
said so, and been persons who commonly told the truth, and
if that automobile had not been found later at the bottom
of the incline where it must have taken ten minutes for it
to arrive and the parties who had brought it to a stop to
walk back up the hill to where it had gone over me, I would
have fought anyone who maintained that I had ever lost
consciousness at all.
Question, then: If we were in a state or condition where
such earthly properties and their changes were not recog­
nizable by which to measure such lapses, how would we know
that Time existed, or how would we measure it?
This thought of the "enduringness” of Time, and its essence
only as we have some sort of consciousness by which to grasp
or picture it, is far more important than we might realize,
in considering the propagation of a planet, the appearance
of spiritually cognizant life upon it, the progress of evolu­
tion, and ultimate disintegration when such orb has served
its purpose.
To leap a long way ahead in our philosophical maneuverings,
we might say that earthly worlds— or universes of earths
25
making for materialistic planetary systems— are necessary
that such a thing as Time may be grasped, and by the grasp­
ing of Time, permit Consciousness to realize that it is con­
scious.
In other words, we come to know What we are, as well as
Where we are— or that we are anything at all—by first hav­
ing received the prior-thinking benefactions of a Providence
that projected formal universes, and worlds made of so-called
Substance, in order that we might recognize ourselves as
alive as a status. This enigmatic item of Time, being the
core of what we know as creation, therefore, cannot be passed
over lightly, nor can it be interpreted by common physical
standards.
Spirit "thinks” because the phenomena of worlds and earths
give it patterns to think in; but the arena in which it "thinks”
or the dimension in which it observes, is given the misnomer
of "time,” which of itself, in each case, is but an encompass-
ment of observation.
Let the Master Teacher converse on this phenomenon for a
few pages, before we pass on to its practical application.
26
W H A T IS TIM E?
£ )E A R L Y Beloved Brethren in Mortality: We present you
a lesson from the Greatest Among Us. We tell you
His message delivered for your intellects. You live in a
world of Time and Space that seem to you mysteries. You
know that when you travel far you remove your physical
bodies from one location into another. And yet the Mind
transcends the mystery known as Distance. It comes and
goes instantly at a faster speed than light.
In the going, Time vanishes. Time seems a thing of Space
and of intellect. You do not know, while encased in mor­
tality, how this miracle is done. If you could perform it
consciously, you could overcome circumstances day unto day.
As part of your earthly curriculum, you have this address,
seeking to enlighten you in Time’s fundamentals. We tran­
scribe it for you in the words of the Teacher:—
jy [ E N have a saying: Time without end, Amen! That is
an error. Time hath an end. It hath an end in cycles
of doing.
Men have Time in mind when they say: "W e go and come
in eternity.” They do not "go and come” in eternity.
They are Eternity itself, having minds to comprehend events.
I say to you, Time is the accredited way of addressing event.
Event hath substance in things of Spirit. The things of
spirit, are comprehended in terms of event. Event succeedeth
27
event and the whole maketh that catalogue which ye call
chronology.
Time as time therefore, is naught but that dimension wherein
mankind functioneth. It hath a Beginning and an End,
even as man—so-called—hath a beginning and an end.
Without man there could be no mortal consciousness, and
without mortal consciousness, could be no recognition of
Event, and Time therefore would not exist.
Except there be Event there can be no time passage. It com-
eth by event and goeth by event, having substance in a pro­
gram and therefore having substance in that which is of
consciousness.
Time hath no being except as Consciousness recognizeth it!
It is manifestation of Spirit making Time possible.
That which cometh to man is ordained for him from the be­
ginning. It is ordained for him because it hath power to
make him conscious entity.
This power to consciousness is the world as men know it,
Time being the dimension of that world in which matter
functioneth progressively, event on event. Let me make this
still clearer:
Time hath a mission among mortals to teach them Event
else they know not themselves as created essences. It is pro­
gressive in that it functioneth constructively, event growing
out of event, not into event negatively.
Time hath a mission, I say, to make men realize themselves.
Otherwise they are creatures of Nothingness, existing but
having no consciousness within them.
There are matters I tell you requiring no consciousness. The
world is made of "inorganic” matter. Inorganic matter hath
28
no consciousness as men know consciousness. It existeth from
age to age without life of any sort, maintaining itself on it­
self, having no function but mere fact of existence. To such
is no Time. Time toucheth it not. Today, tomorrow, and
forever it remaineth the same, having no change, making no
manifestation within its own essence.
Verily I say Time can be eternal in that consciousness can
function to eternity, but to organic matter there truly com-
eth Change.
That change is Time and Time thereby is change.
Man cometh to you saying: "The times are ripe for fulfill­
ment of our bargain; the times are ripe for fruition of our
crops; the times are ripe for that which we expected to tran­
spire.” Lo, all are manifestations of Change of some sort.
Change cometh first; Time followeth after.
Think of Time as change only: change of location, change
of condition, change of conception.
Nothing happeneth unless it cometh in Time. Time hath
endless forms of change. But it functioneth as Change and
naught else. Understand ye this? I explain myself further.
When ye make a bargain with a man, he expecteth its ful­
fillment verily in Time. What he meaneth is, he expecteth
its fulfillment in exactitude of Change. He saith unto you:
"I pay you moneys when certain changes have been brought
about in my affairs.” Lo, those affairs come to fruition and
the debt is then paid.
Time is the Great Equation of abstract alteration. It hath
its value as a Record of Change and naught else. When
men make a mark on the Sands of Time they but drive a
stake for future record of event.
29
I say to you: Time is your Great Counselor in that it hath
power to change your future positively. You have no power
to change your own futures excepting in Time. Time work-
eth for you, bringing changes of which you take advantage.
There are those who take not such advantage. They resign
themselves to a sort of lethargy of Spirit, calling it Patience.
They please not the Host of Just Men Made Perfect. Time
worketh not for them but ever against them. They have no
power of themselves and make no effort to acquire power
from change.
Let me say to you that power is a form of Change, even as
Change is a form of Time. Would you have power in your
earthly affairs? Seek Change, knowing that Change rightly
harnessed worketh miracles for you. Change hath a sword
that goeth before you, cutting through doubt and error to
substance.
I say to you: Be eager for change. It is your friend and
servant. It maketh you to thrive financially and bringeth
you blessings of Spirit and health.
Change is the great mediator of earthly factions. Change
harnesseth their brains in thought and rideth to fulfillment
of idea and concept. Make this clear to yourselves. Change
is your friend! Whatever cometh, cometh of good for you
are good. You place yourselves in the current of Change
and are borne along with it toward oceans of profits.
Harken well I say: Change is your friend! Go forward in
it strong to run a race. Have confidence in it, believing it
good, for Change is Consciousness manifesting in event.
When you come to great problems, spurn them not, saying:
"Lo, they overwhelm me.”
30
Problems are projections of Change making you to know
that which cometh to pass! Look on them as watchwords,
giving you wisdom. All changes have beneficial ends. What­
ever is in Idea is beneficial in ultimate outcome, when those
who think are holy of design. I speak to you as brethren
having a knowledge.
These things are important for a purpose. Time hath power
to mediate, as I have told you. Love hath a power to medi­
ate also. They are the double team of Experience, driving
through the world of conscious creation, drawing thereafter
a freight of beauteous concept.
Let us reason further together.
When you have a problem, let it not be said as by the sav­
ants of old, "It hath no solution.” Lo, every problem hath
its solution, somewhere, somehow. Mark this well, my be­
loved.
Time is conscious Consciousness functioning. Lo, it func-
tioneth within itself unerringly. So do problems of life func­
tion toward solution when given opportunity in Time. Lo,
I tell you more . . .
Time is the burden bearer. It goeth unto the ages saying:
Let me carry that which perplexeth unto solution.
We come to a cycle in our affairs when Time or Change
maketh us to see we have an errand unto men. We see our
mission clearly. We see that men need us, that their hearts
are hungry and their spirits are weak. Lo, we feed them
with our effort. Yet problems arise therefrom.
Men are abstruse of concept. They dally in understanding.
They make us to lose patience because of their malfeasance.
They say: "Let us have no part of these people; they mean
31
us no good.” W e greet problems on every hand concerning
human nature.
I tell you, every problem in human nature worketh out with
Time. In time is Change, and Change hath the power to
transmute feelings and emotions and ideas and event-sub-
stance into things desired of us. Change is the benefactor,
Time is the counselor. We do all things by waiting patiently.
Let us not say to ourselves: "Lo, we hurry and it is done.”
Let us say: "Lo, we take thought constructively and wait till
it transpireth.” That is sense, my beloved. That is earnest­
ness of spirituality.
Let us say that men have grievances against us but in time
we work them out. That is literally true. Time being
Change, and Change being our instrument of progress, lo we
do the miracle. We take water and make wine in a twin­
kling, perhaps. That is because we have mastered principles
of Change, commanding them at will. Change may be fast
or slow according to design and that which happeneth in
circumstance. Light is naught but a series of cycles, each
revolving about a core of alteration. Cycle succeedeth cycle.
We say the times are out of joint. We mean the times are
changing faster than our concept.
Let us reason further together. . . . A father saith to his
son: "M y son, there is work to be done; go forth and do
it; come back at even and I do reward you.” The son goeth
forth and doeth the work. Evening cometh and he is re­
warded. Lo, he is possessed in circumstance of that which is
rewarded, of that which is promised. He is not put out be­
cause of failure of circumstance to agree with promise. He
is badly put out, however, if circumstance agreeth not with
32
promise. Let me tell you reasons for this. He hath conceived
changes in event progressing toward an end.
That is natural law. His mind hath consciousness of
event on event, working toward the circumstance of pay­
ment. He heareth in his heart certain syllables of promise
being part of culmination. Consciousness embraceth fruition
accurately. He heareth matters of policy discussed within
his being, and believeth them, knowing them to be accurate.
Lo, the even cometh and no payment is given for his labor.
We say he is disappointed. Verily he is more than that.
Disorder hath entered in transcribing concept in terms of
error. That which was promised is not fulfilled and natural
law hath thus been defiled.
Certain men have a way of saying that if they be given time,
they will work toward certain ends. They wist not that Time
itself is change toward those ends. They wist not that
change, being Time, accomplisheth therein, if they concern
themselves with changes having those ends in view.
Men have a way of saying: "Lo, time is given us to do this
or that.” I say, Time is given to no man; changes manifest
and ye reap the benefits.
Let this truth be your shibboleth. No "time” have ye to "ac­
complish” anything, as time-concepts of transmission are
eternal. Ye but dwell in them and they have fulfillment
Cometh one to you saying: "Lo, Master, give me time to
perform an act of mercy.” In his heart he hath already per­
formed it, or not, as the case may be. He waiteth with im­
patience for the fruition of his deed in function, calling it
the time requested.
Ye are tired beloved, from much striving with impatience.
33
Impatience hath a way of bringing disorder into Change.
Impatience, I tell you, is disturber of Change. Events not
properly coming to fruition it causeth a heartbreak, because
it adapteth itself not to natural law: the Cycle of Event
which is Time in itself.
Lest ye think I deal in empty phrases, I tell you that Time
hath a power to come to you bringing every miracle ye can
conceive, if thought be not disturbed by impatience.
I say Time is your friend as I am your friend. Time striveth
for you and Change worketh benefits.
Lest we reason together wrongly, I cease now my discourse.
That which we have discussed is pertinent to that which
cometh.
Leave every problem to Time, knowing that it solveth itself
when Thought be lubrication and Love the exponent.
Bear ye my words in mind and know that I speak them.
Let us have communion of Spirit. Thus is your wisdom;
thus your ennoblement . . .
PEACE.
34
Chapter II
LIFE IS C H A N G E
]N C O N SID ER IN G the great drama of a
world— or worlds— coming into being, there­
fore, we are dealing with a process in Om­
nipotent Consciousness that might best be
described as a Program of Change.
Certain changes in the status of individual Spirit-Particles
are wanted. They have a certain Wili-To-Be-Conscious.
This can only be achieved by giving them experiences in
some sort of a world of Substance and Pattern. They enter
such a world, or universe of material planets, and receive
the repercussions from various materials in various and con­
stant aspects of Change. The speed with which such changes
occur, item compared with item, is— when recognized or
appreciated by each unit of Self-Awareness—the enigma
known as Time. To supply a common standard by which
changes may be described, or appreciated, the measuring-
stick or norm of the earth’s single revolution in its path
about the sun-centrosome, is generally accepted and em­
ployed. But it is Change of itself that is the important
thing, not the common standard of transaction by which
measurement is made. So then, when we come to a con-
35
sideration of a new planetary-stage for these Spirit-Particles
with the Will-to-Consciousness, we are engaged in forming
this wholly new concept—
^ H A N G E S are apportioned into Cycles of Accomplish­
ment. And it is these Cycles of Accomplishment in
which Great Cosmos—and all that is therein—is interested.
A moment ago I spoke about a time-measurement that con­
sisted of the changes in bringing a rose to full blossom.
Given certain soils, moisture and exposures to the actinic
rays of sunlight, that Cycle of Accomplishment should be
mathematically definite. In other words, under all condi­
tions, on all planets within the universe, the tempo of the
unfoldment of the rose should be the same. And as it might
be considered in regard to the rose, so it might be considered
in regard to a planet and the period of its endurance in
Free Energy.
The appearance of a planet, the run of its integrated exist­
ence in the matter of its materials, and their final integration
into the status of Free-Energy again—all to the end that
certain quotas of spirit-souls may pass through the evolu­
tionary changes that are commonly called Mortality— is ever
a matter of the completion of all acts divinely belonging to a
Sequence of Change. A specified Sequence!
Thus to propel itself further and further forward into vaster
and grander unfoldments of Consciousness, each quota of
spirit-souls realizing in concrete form their Wills-to-Con-
sciousness, must put themselves in association with a given
and prescribed Sequence of Materialistic Changes in some
particular spot or part of the universe and remain there till
36
such changes have been actualized. In our present case, this
means the coagulation of a planet in Free Space, its geolog­
ical preparation for the reception of mortal life, its endur­
ance as a stage for the Cycles of Accomplishment viewed in
the mortal sense, and its ultimate disintegration as the chart
of the changes specifies the end.
We must not only understand accurately what Time is, in
such regard, but we must be prepared mentally to throw our
traditional acceptance of what it is, overboard. We must
view the cosmic drama about to unfold, purely as a pattern
of definite changings, all of them related to one another—-
or succeeding one another— in such a way as to make the
sequence when completed a piece of chronological perfection.
Which is another way of stating that the appearance and
life of a planetary world would seem to be definite, to con­
tinue until a positive and measurable result has been arrived
at, and to resolve back to energy when its purpose has been
achieved. There is no "time” in the incident of such a crea­
tion therefore, merely a prescribed program of changes. As
these changes occur, the mortalized Consciousness in contact
with them, or observant of them, or related to them, be­
comes unfolded— although each spirit-soul is required to
take on physical limitation and mundane handicap in order
profitably to experience them.
Bearing this thought— of a prescribed program of changes
being the real thing that takes place in the materialization
of a planet— at all times in mind, let us for a few pages take
the astronomer’s viewpoint of this cosmic universe and grasp
as we can just what is constantly occurring and recurring in
Free Ether, to make these worlds of substance what we dis-
37
cern them to be when we lift our eyes to unclouded heavens
on any midnight. . . .
g T R A N G E is the fact that despite the living of every
human being under the starry skies every night through­
out his earthly tenure, less is known by the average person
about the firmament and its stellar inhabitants than any
other natural mystery coming beneath his observation. The
stars are simply tacked up there in the sky. The sun and
the moon are taken for granted. If a comet comes zooming
into our planetary neighborhood, the world’s populace is
properly terrified. Will it strike the earth or will it not, and
if it should strike the earth, what would happen? The heav­
ens, so to speak, are an open book that is seen but never
read. O f course most people know how to locate the North
Star from the Big Dipper, and they accredit that the Ple­
iades are supposed to exert a "sweet” influence. Three out
of five persons can find the Pleiades, but the other two out
of five don’t know whether the word describes an ancient
goddess or a new brand of rayon hosiery. That some stars
are farther away than others, is generally conceded, but after
all, what difference does it make? All of it goes to indicate
that people in the main are far more interested in the im­
mediate results in self-awareness received from their plan­
etary habitat than they are in the colossal system that gives
them an arena for formal life at all.
Now every person, no matter what his age, should have a
fair working knowledge of Astronomy. That is to say, he
should be in possession of the simple fundamentals of what
the celestial universe is like, how big it is, what peculiar hap-
38
penings are constantly occurring in interstellar space, and
how these billiard-ball stars, suns, planets and satellites came
to be formed, furnishing performance-stages for trillions up­
on trillions of Spirit Particles not much removed in essence
from ourselves. Likewise, there are a lot of things about the
universe that he should "unlearn.” One of these concerns
the mechanical side of Astronomy. Thousands of people
hold the notion that as Science manufactures bigger and
bigger telescopes, the vaster and wider is to become man­
kind’s perspective of the spread and size of the heavenly
bodies. That, however, is untrue. The greater the size of
the telescopes that are made, the more restricted is the area
each can cover. Give a moment’s thought to it, and you will
understand why. The bigger the telescope, the longer its
range; but by the same token, the bigger the telescope, the
more minute is going to be the focus of its vision.
Take the moon, for instance. We may point a four-inch
telescope at it and see it in its full symmetry. But immedi­
ately we begin to make our telescopic lens larger, the nearer
the moon is going to be brought. Instead of the whole moon,
the telescope moves up closer into our view only a limited
section of its surface. In the exact ratio that the moon is
moved nearer, the plainer will become the lunar terrain. But
instead of seeing the whole moon, or a section of the moon,
we’re only going to view some particular mountain. It is
possible in the course of time, with telescopes growing larger
and larger, that we might even be able to count the cobble­
stones on six square feet of lunar surface. But the moon as
a moon will have ceased to exist. What will exist for our
telescopic observation will be minute features of its surface.
39
What is true of the moon in such respect, therefore, is true
of the whole starry universe. The bigger the telescope, the
fewer the stars to come into range of its two-dimensional
power, but the greater will be the detail of those stars so ap­
pearing. And the strange part about it is that no matter
where in the universe you point a telescope—of any size—
there, obstructing your range of vision, will be a celestial
body. There is only one place in the skies of either hemi­
sphere where this does not hold. Off in the southeastern
heavens, there is a space that is called "the Pocket.” Within
the Pocket nothing but eternal blackness is apparent. But
knowing what we do about the rest of the universe, it is
doubtful if this means that there is a vacancy of heavenly
bodies in that spot. What we very probably are looking at,
is some vast planetary body that neither originates nor re­
flects the slightest incandescence.
JSJO W first of all, how big is the universe? Naturally, ordi­
nary standards of measurement will not suffice. When
we get up into terrific distances, to measure in miles becomes
incomprehensible. Take the sun, for instance. W e say in
common parlance that it is between 92 and 93 millions miles
from the earth. To try to represent that distance in miles
we say that it is equal to one of our fastest express trains’
traveling night and day for 250 years to cover that distance.
So man takes as his measuring-stick the distance that light
will travel in one second of time.
Light travels, allegedly 186,000 miles per second. So it
requires something like 500 seconds for the fight from the
sun to travel through sheer Space and strike our earth. In
40
other words, we get the light from the sun in a trifle less
than nine minutes after it leaves Old Sol on its journey to­
ward us.
Now with that illustration, hold your breath and consider
this: Some of the star-suns of the cluster in Hercules are
36.000 light years away— or the distance that light must
travel at 186,000 miles per second for 36.000 years. But
we have only begun to consider celestial distance.
The most remote of the globular clusters in the Milky Way,
known to astronomers as N G C 7006— N G C standing for
New General Catalogue of Nebulae as compiled by Dreyer
— places 7006 as more than 200,000 light-years away.
To make this clearer, the light that reaches us now from
N G C 7006 left that cluster 200,000 years bygone. If the
cluster had burned out— that is, ceased to throw out light—
100.000 years ago, earthly eyes would still see it for 100,000
years in future, granted of course that they existed that long.
The naked eye, in northern or southern hemispheres, can
count between 5,000 and 6,000 of stars, suns, or planets.
Each increase in the size of telescope lenses multiplies the
number to almost fabulous proportions— although, as I said
— requiring more pointing about the heavens to detect them.
Present optical instruments can observe between four hun­
dred millions and five hundred millions— in other words,
half a billion—-and constant improvements in photography
are gradually raising that number to a billion. And if you
want to realize how many a billion is, consider this: That if
the mythical Adam, supposed by the Fundamentalists to
have existed some four thousand years ago, had started to
count as fast as he could work his tongue— "One-two-three-
41
four-five-six-seven!”— he could not have counted a billion
even had he lived to the present moment.
And yet, to a degree, the universe is measurable, in that we
know there is a greater density of celestial bodies in one
direction than in another, and furthermore that the whole
stupendous array of heavenly bodies is divided into two
groups that have peculiar movements in respect to each other.
The fact that interstellar Space has more heavenly bodies in
one direction than in another, permits of the conclusion— ac­
cording to an observation of these densities— that the galac­
tic system has the general shape of a pocket watch. As
regards the two master groups into which the suns and nebu­
lae are divided, we find them oscillating in the heavens,
swinging back and forth so to speak, one division penetrat­
ing the other and each moving through the vast interstices
of Space that exist in the other. W hat causes such oscilla­
tion, scientists of course have not the faintest notion.
Now the Bigness of the universe, as we saw in our last dis­
course, is unimportant and means almost nothing, because
Bigness and Smallness are forever relative. The old saying:
"If you want to see how big you are, lie down beside a
puppy; if you want to see how small you are, lie down be­
side an elephant,” applies with particular force to any con­
sideration of the galactic system. We get the word galactic,
by the way, from "galaxy” or series of star-bands encircling
the heavens, called the Milky Way.
All these heavenly bodies are big or small, according as we
attempt to compare them with the earth or Old Sol. They
are near or far away according as we think of the size of
our physical selves and how long it takes us to propel our
42
bodies one mile on two legs— about a quarter of an hour.
It is a strange faculty of Man, however, attesting to his es­
sential spirituality— or essence in Spirit— that his Mind or
consciousness knows neither time nor space. He can con­
sider a million years bygone or a million years in future, and
know what is meant. He can consider a billion light-years
and by comparisons begin to grasp whether a distance is
short or long—or a given star-sun "close” or "remote.” That
he can perform these mental miracles discloses that he is
competent to penetrate to any point in the universe; only
enhousement in his body keeps him a creature of earth.
So size is a matter of measuring-sticks. And the most con­
venient measuring-sticks by which we may briefly survey the
universe, is first the mass and distance of the sun in relation
to earth, then the mass and distance of some of the closer
stars, then the mass and distance of the major stars and
constellations.
First, as regards the earth and Old Sol.
| T STA G G ER S the average mind, accustomed to seeing
the sun rise every morning and set every evening since
babyhood, to be told the most elemental facts about the sun,
of which our earth is but the third satellite. In the first
place, when we walk forth in the middle of a pleasant after­
noon and view the sun in the high western heavens, the thing
that we truly are looking at, is our nearest star to earth,
relatively close at hand.
The sun is only a star close at hand! But just how close is
it? I’ve already made mention of the express train that would
require 250 years moving at better than 60 miles per hour,
43
to cover the distance which light traverses in nine minutes.
But consider Sound. If someone shot off a cannon cracker
on the sun and the resultant noise were loud enough to
travel as far as Earth, it would take 14 years— reckoning in
terrestrial atmospheric velocity— for the noise to be heard by
ears on the earth.
If a cannon ball or 14-inch shell were to be shot from some
gigantic gun on the sun, and hurled through space at the
gun-rate of 1700 feet per second—about a third of a mile—
that cannon ball or shell would require nine years to strike
our planet.
Now how big is the sun in comparison with earth?
I said in a previous discourse that if we wanted to con­
sider relative mass to distance, we might call the sun an
orange and the earth a pea, placed 40 feet away. Even so,
a pea would be relatively large. One little ball of buckshot
would be the more accurate comparison. To get our ratios
the better adjusted, consider this—
Suppose we say that the sun is a sphere two feet in diameter,
or about the size of the ordinary geographer’s globe mounted
on a standard in any scholar’s study. Perhaps you own such
a globe at this minute. Very good. Then consider that the
earth in relation to it would be as a small boy’s ordinary day
marble 220 feet from it, while the distance of the nearest
fixed star in this scale would be approximately 8,000 miles—
or the actual diameter of the earth on which we live.
In other words, the diameter of the sun is 110 times as great
as that of earth—it being 866,500 miles from surface to
surface directly through its heart—while considered rela­
tively as to mass, the sun is 332,000 times that of earth. Its
44
density, however, is only a little over a quarter that of the
earth’s, or about 1.41 times as heavy as water. It is well to
keep this in mind in thinking of the probable physical con­
dition of the sun, when we remember that it is mainly com­
posed of iron.
The attraction of the sun at its surface is about 27.6 times
that of the earth at its exterior, so that a 200-pound man
would weigh about 5,520 pounds on the sun, and a body
would fall there at a rate of 444 feet per second, instead of
16 as here. A pendulum which marks seconds here would
oscillate more than five times per second upon Old Sol.
How is the vast heat of the sun kept up? The scientist’s
most generally accepted hypothesis is the contraction of the
sun’s huge mass upon itself— in other words, its shrinkage—
which generates heat through internal pressure. Yet so slow
is this rate of shrinkage that centuries must pass before the
most delicate of instruments can detect the slightest change.
If the shrinkage or contraction theory be correct, the sun
is probably from 20 million to 50 million years old— and
doubtless the latter figure is nearer the truth than the former.
If the same contraction should continue, the sun would take
the next five million years to shrink to one-half its present
diameter.
"T H E IN N ER core of the sun seems to be composed of
gases. At the intense heat that prevails upon the sun
by comparison with earthly temperatures, and being in a
state of such compression, they have the consistency of
melted tar or pitch.
The luminous surface of the sun directly visible in telescopes
45
is called the Photosphere, from the Greek word phos mean­
ing "bright” . . . it is probably a sheet of luminous clouds
formed by the condensation of substances which exist as
gases in the hotter central mass of the sun. Under a mod­
erate magnifying power it looks like rough drawing paper.
Under higher lenses, it looks like snowflakes scattered over
gray cloth. These flakes, or grains, are from 400 to 600
miles across. O f sun spots and faculae I shall have more
to say later.
Next above the photosphere comes a stratum of unknown
thickness discovered by Professor Young, containing the
vapors of many of our terrestrial elements. It is called
Young’s Reversing Layer. Above the Reversing Layer and
interpenetrating it, is an atmosphere of permanent gases
called the Chromosphere. Hydrogen is the most predomi­
nant among these gases, and out of this Chromosphere rise
the wonderful protuberances which form so prominent a
feature of the sun’s surroundings at the time of a total
eclipse.
Surrounding all other parts of the solar surface is the halo
of light called the Corona— which is only visible at the time
of a total eclipse. Though recognized from earliest times,
little is known of its cause or physical condition. Down
near the surface it is very bright and of a pearly-greenish
color. Above this it rises, especially at the poles, in short
and finely clustered filaments. Over the sun-spot zones it
generally rises higher in broad streaks. U p in the clear air
of Pike’s Peak, Colorado, in 1878, these streamers were seen
extending at least 9,000,000 miles into Space from the sun.
Here, then, is a star so close at hand that we can examine
46
the most minute portions of its surface and its composition.
Thereby do we know much of the surface and composition
of the other star-suns in the celestial universe.
J^ O W when a smaller and nonincandescent body is pulled
into a regular orbit around such a star-sun, we label it
a Planet. We label it a Planet from the word Plane— or
because it has a plane on which it travels.
Another of the popular notions which it would be well for
us to un-learn concerning planets—and particularly our own
planet Earth— is that it was birthed by the sun by being
hurled out of it when the sun was revolving at a much
faster rate than at present. If such a theory were true, it
would have to follow that the planet that is farthest from
Old Sol!—Neptune— would have been cast off first, then
in reverse order: Uranus, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Earth,
Venus, and Mercury. Neptune would have cooled down
first, and contracted, but this contraction should have made
heat again and prevented it from becoming a solid. The
Earth therefore, even today, should be much colder— or
hotter by contraction— than Mars. All the planets should
have been hurled off in the same way, in the same direction,
and their speeds of rotation correspondingly reduced, one
from the other. Furthermore, for the theory to hold, the
moon-satellites of each of these planets, cast off in the same
way, should all be proceeding in the same directions and at
corresponding rates. But nothing of the sort is so. While
the planets bear a fixed ratio to one another in the item
of spacing, or distances between them, their temperatures
and physical features are all different, and Mars, Earth and
47
Venus are approximately the same size despite their ages.
A French physician, by the name of Lescarbault, gave it out
in 1859 that he had discovered a planet even closer to the
sun than Mercury, and named it Vulcan. But no astronomer
has been able to see it since, and today it is regarded as more
or less of a myth.
Mercury is an elusive body that few among astronomers
have ever seen. It is not very bright, moves rapidly, and
appears so close to the sun— rising and setting with it—that
it can scarcely be distinguished. It is believed that it always
presents the same face to the sun, as the moon always pre­
sents the same face to earth. Its atmosphere, if it has any,
must be so thin as barely to be termed an atmosphere at all.
It is 36,000,000 miles from the sun and moves most swiftly
of all the solar satellites.
Venus is the brightest of all the planets. Mistakenly, most
of us identify it as the Evening or Morning "Star.” Because
it travels inside the orbit of the earth, it rises and sets with
the sun. It is 67,000,000 miles from the sun and comes
within 26,000,000 miles of the earth. Its atmosphere is
denser than ours, and there is only 220 miles difference be­
tween its diameter and our own. The diameter of the earth
is 7,920 miles while the diameter of Venus is 7,700. But it
goes around the sun in only seven and one-half of our months
— or 225 days. It has no moon, although the planet itself
goes through all the aspects of the moon— full, quarters and
new moon. On our planet Earth, I need waste no time. It
is 92,000,000 miles from the sun and goes about it in 365
days. But it does have a moon, of a nature that distinguishes
none of its sister planets in precisely the same way.
48
This moon is only 238,800 miles away and its speed about
the earth is 2,290 miles per hour. This is more than twice
as fast as the earth is revolving, the earth’s revolution being
a trifle over 1,000 miles per hour.
The moon’s diameter is 2,162 miles. In other words, it
would take approximately 50 moons to make a planet of
similar size to earth. Its density is only two-thirds that of
the earth and since its gravity is only one-sixth, athletes on
the moon could leap straight up thirty-six feet and broad-
jump at least 150 feet.
The telescope reveals the moon as a vast crater-pitted, rocky
desolation— a dead world— without atmosphere, water, or
life. The side of the moon turned towards the sun is, due
to lack of atmosphere, so cold that rocks could not be
touched without freezing human flesh, while on the side
away from the sun, the temperature falls hundreds of degrees
below zero and compares to the temperature in interstellar
Space.
The question as to whether or not the moon was thrown out
of that earth-cavity now filled by the Pacific Ocean often
teases the imagination of the unlearned. Common sense
should dictate that such a thing could not have happened
unless the earth had been in a gaseous state— or molten state
— at the time. And if it had been in a gaseous or molten
state, the centrifugal motion of the earth’s mass remaining
would have swiftly equalized this gouge from its volume and
made the whole planet symmetrical but smaller.
As we shall see in Lectures which are yet to come, the Pa­
cific Ocean cavity was more probably created by a gigantic
cave-in of the land surface between California and Japan,
49
submerging the whole antediluvian continent of Lemuria.
But the submergence seems to have been gradual— the water
creeping higher and higher up all the shorelines, year by
year and generation by generation, so that no particular loss
of life resulted as in Atlantis. The water is doing the same
thing to the shores of the British Isles today. It is only a
matter of arithmetic before the time comes when there will
be no more England, Ireland, or Scotland. The British Isles
will have disappeared beneath the surface of the North
Atlantic.
M A R S is the planet next outside the earth’s orbit. It is
141,500,000 miles from the sun and has a day that is
longer than ours by only a few minutes. It takes 687 of
our days to make its year, however, though in size the planet
is only about one-half the size of earth— 4,200 miles in
diameter, to the earth’s 7,790. Although one-half the size
of the earth, Mars is only one ninth of its weight. The in­
equality of the seasons is such that the Martian winter lasts
381 days, and the summer only 306 days.
Another interesting point about Mars is that the heat it
receives from the sun is only about half of that received by
the earth, yet its summer is so long in comparison with ours
that it is sufficient to melt the Martian polar ice-cap.
In 1877, an astronomer named Schiaparelli startled the sci­
entific world by declaring that he had discovered positive
proof of intelligent life on Mars by reason of a series of
canals, laid out in geometrical pattern and with engineering
straightness. He claimed these canals must have been con­
structed to convey water from the polar seas to the planet’s
50
equatorial deserts. They varied in length, he estimated,
from 250 to 4,000 miles, and in width from 12 to 200 miles.
But the astronomer Pickering, who went to work on the
problem, decided the strange geometrical markings were not
canals but bands of vegetation, following the changing
seasons.
There is no controversy, however, about the two moons of
Mars. They are tiny moons, compared with our own, being
about 20 miles in diameter, each. The inner moon, called
Phobos, moves around Mars three times while the planet is
turning but once. The other behaves pretty much like our
own.
g E T W E E N Mars and Jupiter, by the ratio of distances
from planet to planet, exists a great blank of Space that
previous to 1801 had puzzled astronomers. All the other in­
terplanetary spaces seemed to have a fixed relationship, but
the gap between Mars and Jupiter was twice what it should
have been. What had happened to spoil the ratio in that
particular area? H ad there once been a planetary world
there which had disintegrated or been destroyed? If so,
what had become of its materials? The Italian astronomer,
Piazzi, after searching diligently, finally discovered a small
body in this gap that he gave the name of Ceres. But Ceres
was evidently but a few hundred miles in diameter. What
was such a pigmy world doing in a space so vast? Presently,
however, a second baby planet was located in the gap, then
a third and a fourth. Astronomers began to vie with each
other in detecting pigmy planets between Mars and Jupiter.
51
Today over a thousand of them are known and named. The
largest is Vesta, yet Vesta is but 400 miles through its center.
This assembly of minute worlds is known as the Asteroids.
But here is the baffling thing about them— taken as a whole:
Their mass just about equals such a planet as ought to be
in that area which the Asteroids enjoy peculiarly to them­
selves.
What happened to produce these Asteroids? H ad a planet
even bigger than ours met with some disaster and broken
into fragments? If so, what had molded those fragments
into spheres and sent them spinning in their own little or­
bits, each distinctive unto itself? Why should they not col­
lide with one another again? And what took all of them,
as a group, around the sun?
If these had been a series of sun-drops, spattered off in tiny
particles, they should all be traveling in the direction of
their first momentum. But they are not; many of them
have eccentric orbits, spinning or traveling in such ways as
they please. The explanation is not yet forthcoming from
astronomy, although the accepted theory to account for them
is that the nearness of the great mass of Jupiter may have
prevented the gaseous nebula in the gap from cohering into
one respectable-sized planet.
Thus Jupiter, by such reasoning, would have to be the older
planet and in existence when the Asteroids were in the nebu­
lous state. Also, there is no accounting for Jupiter’s size.
It is the giant planet of our solar system. Its diameter at
the equator is nearly 90,000 miles, and its distance from pole
to pole is over 84,000 miles. Its bulk is over 1300 times
that of the earth, and it is located 483,000,000 miles from
52
the sun— which means that a railroad train traveling 50
miles an hour would require nine centuries before its con­
ductor could put its passengers off at the completion of such
a run. Such a train would doubtless make but one run and
then be sent to the junk-yard. If not, then it should be.
Fancy one train nine hundred years old!
Yet despite its great size, Jupiter makes a complete revolu­
tion in 9 hours and 55 minutes, meaning that its true day is
only about three hours long. On the other hand, though
traveling about the sun at the rate of 28,743 miles an hour,
it takes 12 of our years to complete one revolution.
This titanic planet is well supplied with moons, also, having
no less than nine. One of them goes about Jupiter four
times a week, the outermost one requires 18 days. Writers
of love songs on Jupiter would have plenty of trouble with
their moonlight, for if a young man asked his girl to come
out with him for a stroll beneath the moon, she would ask
him to supply his data as to which of the nine moons he
meant— or did he mean all of ’em?
Jupiter, moons and all, is the brightest of all the planets in
our system except Venus. It is five times as bright as Sirius,
the most brilliant of the fixed stars, or outer sun.
When we get to the next planet, Saturn, we discover more
eccentricities. Saturn is the one great planet which we can
examine through the telescope that is encircled by a plane­
like band, resembling the brim of a gigantic straw-hat. Sat­
urn has a brilliance of a star or sun of the first magnitude,
and its diameter is 73,000 miles— nine times as great as the
earth’s, yet not as big as Jupiter’s by something like 17,000
miles. Its day is only about 10 hours long. And when it
53
comes to moons, Saturn has so many of them— if we choose
to call them moons— that they put the frill around her that
makes her so distinctive.
^ O W this great frill, or hat-brim crushed down around
Saturn’s equator, is something that we shall find re­
ferred to in a strange and enthralling way when we come to
the subject: "D id the Oceans Once Whirl in the Skies?”
The telescope reveals that this great fiery circle around Sat­
urn is not fiery at all—at least it isn’t gaseous— and it isn’t
one ring but a series of rings, all on the same plane, one
inside the other, and the various rings are made up of differ­
ent materials that are traveling at different speeds.
There are at least four of these rings: an outer ring, some­
times divided near its middle into two; an inner, broader,
and brighter ring; and a dark ring that is sometimes called
the Crepe Ring. These rings have a thickness of about a
hundred miles. Recent observations have established that
each ring is made up of millions of separate satellites moving
around the planet, each at its own rate according to its spe­
cific gravity.
The innermost particles of the Crepe Ring, for instance,
travel about Saturn in five hours. On the other hand, it
takes the outer or "higher” ring something like 137 hours
to make the circuit. I say that we shall come back to another
discussion of Saturn. But these figures for the movement
of the rings have significance.
In 1781, Sir William Herschel discovered the planet Uran­
us, before then unsuspected. The naked eye can barely dis­
cern it. It is 1,800,000,000 miles from the sun and requires
54
84 of our years to travel its orbit. Imagine living on a planet
where the summers were 21 of our years, long! It is only
four times the size of our earth, and one-third the size of
Jupiter or Saturn.
In 1846, the eighth major planet in our solar system was
discovered— Neptune, nearly three billion miles from the
sun, with a year equal to 164 of our solar years. In size it
seems to compare with Uranus. The sun itself, about which
this planet travels every 164 years, must appear to a person
dwelling upon it, as a mere distant star.
Whether there are still more planets to our system beyond
Neptune, we have only heard of a small one, Pluto.
We are safe in stating, however, that our solar system is con­
tained within the orbit of Neptune, and the seven celestial
bodies named constitute the greatest bulk of the bodies that
exist within that unthinkable space-area.
You may recall my statement in another place that the ex­
tent to which solar space is populated is equal to twenty ten­
nis balls floating around inside a glass globe as big as our
earth. If we think that this is true of the bodies within
Neptune’s orbit, "we ain’t heard nothin’ yet!”
In passing out beyond Neptune to the untold millions of
stars and suns, we reach a group of bodies, not dark like the
planets and moons, but incandescent in their own rights.
Some of these, the "dwarf suns,” are smaller than Old Sol.
Most of them, the "giant suns,” are so big by comparison
that the sun we know is lost among them and becomes a
well nigh insignificant star that astronomers in those distant
solar systems— if there be such astronomers— consider about
as immortal as our earthly astronomers consider the smaller
55
of the asteroids. Remember I am dealing in suns and sokr
systems now, not the planets that are their satellites. I said
suns, and I mean suns. When you get a sun as big, or big­
ger, than the whole orbit of Neptune, you are getting a sun
that you can begin to call important. Then when you begin
to consider a mere half-billion of them— and I said billion,
not million!—you are beginning to get a faint idea of the
immensity of the universe in comparison with this puny little
solar system, and puny little sun, and puny little satellite
Earth with its one puny little moon, within which we dwell
and think pretty fine.
In comparison we can barely recognize the sun at all in the
great galactic system, so small and insignificant is it. As for
its third planet, Earth, it can only be located as a dust mote
in the vast universe because it is moving around a ninth-rate
sun.
How it was even discovered as a later abiding place for
sentient life is one of those mysteries of divine arithmetic
that should give us pause.
Incidentally, when thinking for the moment in such con­
cepts, doesn’t it hand us a laugh to be told seriously by
theologians that the whole works came into being some 4,000
years ago, and that the tribal totem-god of a group of Se­
mitic Midianites was responsible for it, and that this god
often took time out from the business of conducting a
project so titanic to counsel those Midianite shepherds
when they went to war with their enemies, even on one oc­
casion being reputed to have caused the entire proposition
to halt its motion while a group of them under Joshua fin­
ished a battle in order that a strip of earthly real estate,
56
75 miles wide and 193 miles long, might be seized, looted,
and subjugated by his human favorites?
What a silliness!
What a silliness even to think that ours is the only solar
system and planetary body that contains sentient mortal life
as we have come to know it!
There must be millions of universes like ours, with billions
of trillions of self-aware beings—many of them with facul­
ties developed so far beyond ours as to make our own as
rudimentary and insignificant as our sun is rudimentary and
insignificant among the colossi of the Milky Way.
We shall come to more comprehensive treatment of this ques­
tion of human life on other celestial bodies, farther on in
our text.
| T IS a fact to note here, however, that apparently all these
bodies, considered as to the matter of their movement, are
following one standard pattern.
I spoke farther back of the aspects of the universe resem­
bling a cluster of billiard-balls eternally rising and falling,
like the balls in the hands of some omnipotent juggler. I
used that analogy to get the picture-image into your minds
of the fact that the universe was not "going anywhere” be­
cause there was nowhere to go— that it was simply hung in
pure Space and all of its movement was confined within
itself, that is, that all its movement was confined to the balls
in relation to one another.
This standard pattern, considered from the structural angle,
is made by "centrosome” with encircling satellites. By
Centrosome— and you want to note that word because I
57
shall use it much as we proceed—is meant the central body
or mass, of such a pattern or system.
Around the Centrosome, or central body or mass, of such
pattern or system, move its attendant satellite bodies in their
various orbits.
Each set or assembly of these constitutes a Celestial Orbit.
Furthermore, the pattern keeps on maintaining such assem­
bly, in that such a celestial unit swings in turn around some
other greater Centrosome or core, and thus goes to make up
another and grander unit. So units still greater and grander
are recognized unto infinite organization.
It would be well for you to keep constantly in mind that our
sun, surrounded by its encircling planets, is likewise moving
as a centrosome through Space, and yet—wise as modern
scientists consider themselves— they have not yet determined
positively what heavenly body our sun’s centrosome is.
Alcyone has been conjectured as this central core of our
solar unit. But there is as yet no reliable evidence to sup­
port the idea.
We do know that our sun is moving— with its family group
of planets as described— toward the star-sun Lyra at the
rate of about 12 miles every second, but the sun’s year, so
to speak, is so immense as to time, that human life on the
earth has not yet been able to observe what its duration may
be. W hat seems to be a movement toward Lyra may be
only movement in an orbit around Lyra.
Observations by Herschel, however— as I mentioned some
time back— showed two great tidal waves of the star-suns,
one widely scattered group moving rapidly— as from the
center of a circle toward its circumference— from the con-
58
stellation Hercules, and another group toward the opposite
side of the stellar sphere. The goal of this latter group,
among which our sun has location, is over in the constella­
tion Lyra. The other group tends toward a point halfway
between Sirius and Canopus.
After thousands of years, the sun’s motion will alter the po­
sition of many stars, as they look to us, as well as as the
tidal sweep of the stars themselves.
The picture of the universe— or at least our particular area
of it— supplied by such findings, is of two vast star streams,
drifting through each other, interpenetrating as they go.
’"jpH IS is apparently all the elementary data on the com­
position of the celestial system that we need for the mo­
ment. It gives you a rough design of the universe in which
you find yourself dwelling— enhoused in a physical vehicle
called your body, moving about upon the surface of the min­
or satellite of a very minor sun-star that in its turn is a mote
in a unit of other sun-stars conjectured as swinging about
Alcyone.
If you want the picture of your true condition in Cosmos,
think of this minor satellite— or earth-planet— whisked out
from beneath your feet, disintegrated, or vanished, with you
as a sentient soul remaining behind and taking the place of
such minor satellite. Suspended in eternal void, you find
yourself a spectator-consciousness in a stupendous spherical
field of pin-point lights. Over vast periods of time you note
that these pin-point lights seem to have shifted positions. Par­
ticularly the great sun-star light that is biggest to you in
this spherical space— Old Sol— seems to alter its position
59
most noticeably. Thereby it finally dawns upon you that it
is yourself that is moving in relation to this assemblage of
pin-point lights. But you have small sense of motion because
these pin-point incandescent objects are too far away. You
are seemingly suspended in the vast spherical area and your
almost infinitesimal movement is only that of a squirrel going
around in the wheel of its cage. In a half-million years of
"age” you have simply passed the same point in Space a
half-million times.
You cry to yourself: "But am I never to get anywhere?”
And mayhap some celestial conversationalist responds: "But
where is there to get?” The distant pin-points of light move,
but after a time they all appear to have moved back into
their original positions, whereat they start making the kalei­
doscopic change all over again.
You are suspended in great blue-black, star-pricked space,
and there, apparently, Eternity abandons you.
What do you do with yourself to endure the tedium of it?
Well, you turn your thinking inward upon the essence and
nature of your own being, and observe yourself to yourself
for what you are, that you may recognize yourself as being
anything or anywhere at all!
So then, insofar as your pin-point-of-light environment is
concerned, the next question we want to take up is: How
did these materials come into existence for you to put your
feet upon, and proceed to play out the drama of conscious
and physically enhoused life?
Which brings us automatically to a consideration of Energy.
60
fT N E R G Y , as we commonly employ the term, might be
defined as that eccentric capability which attaches to
either an object or a spatial area, of altering either the posi­
tion or condition of itself in relation to other objects or
other conditions. This alteration may be seemingly self-
motivated, or externally enforced. Neither alters the nature
of Energy itself. We in our three-dimensional world insist
that Energy shall be supplied from somewhere. W e simply
cannot conceive of Energy as existing of itself. If we want
Energy supplied to the wheel of a printing press to turn the
press over and produce this book, we belt the press up to a
motor. Energy comes into this motor in the form of power
through an electric conduit. But we trace back the power
and arrive at the dynamo in the city’s electric system. We
go hunting for what makes the dynamo supply such current,
and we arrive at the steam turbine taking Energy from heat
units in coal that is burned, or we arrive at some great water­
power system where gravity pulls millions of tons of water
per minute through turbines again, and its "weight” turns
them over. So to work our printing press, we have merely
harnessed gravity at its source.
On the other hand, we quit printing this book and go to
the ball game. The pitcher propels the ball to the batter.
The ball travels from the pitcher’s box to the batter’s plate
and we say that it has energy behind it, or more properly,
in it. If it lacked such Energy, it would stop in mid air,
there would be no clouts of it that brought home runs, hence
no ball game, and everybody would go home. But in this
case the Energy has been supplied by the pitcher’s physical
arm. And his arm has manufactured Energy in turn from
61
the metabolism of his bodily organs. So we have the "burn­
ing coal” process in another form. But behind such Energy,
controlling and directing it, not to mention projecting it, is
Mind, the pitcher’s Mind, suddenly deciding to throw the
ball and— throwing it!
Here, we might express it, is an Original Source.
Mind has functioned and gotten alteration in the location
of objects or status of conditions.
Now then, hold tight and try to grasp this—
Suppose that the "mental impulse” expressed in the pitcher’s
behavior encompassed not the area of Space expressed by
the dimensions of the pitcher’s skull-case but the area of
Space expressed by the dimensions of Herschel’s watch­
shaped galactic universe. And suppose one step further that
instead of the pitcher’s throwing the ball by means of his
arm, objectively, he threw it "mentally” inside his own brain-
mind, subjectively, and that the pitcher was Holy Spirit and
the thrown baseball was the universe that it had created!
That, you might say, would be abolishing materials as we
know them— whether composing either baseball or sun-
planets— and doing the whole thing "in Thought” or
"merely thinking that it happened.” Nevertheless, Energy
would be present in both manifestations and would be get­
ting results after its nature and purpose. We concede con­
stantly that there is such a thing as "mental energy” quite
as much as we acknowledge the thing called "physical
energy.”
So we can declare this axiom: That Mind, in the process of
exercising subjectively to get mental energy, or exercising
objectively to get physical energy, gives the effect of motiva-
62
tion, and proceeds to the manufacture of some sort of ap­
preciable result!
Our next step in logic therefore gives us this: That where
there is appreciable result from motivation, there is proven
automatically the existence of Mind!
The Metaphysician conveniently parrots the term Divine
Mind to describe this pitcher’s skull-case-area together with
the activity encompassing Herschel’s watch-shaped galactic
system. Holy Spirit is another convenient label. Scientists
label it the First Cause.
Where we contend all are making their mistakes is in think­
ing or specifying that there is any any particular "divine”
Mind, or "holy” Spirit, or "first” Cause. There is but Mind,
Spirit and Cause, and all of them are divine, holy and orig­
inal. Furthermore, there is none of it apart from our spir­
itual or essential selves, except as to manner or eccentricity
of function. And we arrive at this conclusion, not by a
study of the galactic system but a study of the Atom.
The atoms composing Betelgeuse and the atoms composing
ourselves are identical in nature, composition and behavior.
Therefore the same Mind Performance must be considered
as behind, and in, and of, both!
Nowhere in all the galactic system, or systems, that we pene­
trate, do we find Matter or Substance compiled in any dif­
ferent aspect or pattern than we find it in the physical or
sensory equipment of our infinitesimally small selves.
Now many people are puzzled as to the difference between
atoms and molecules. Let’s set ourselves straight on these
two terms—
A molecule is the smallest division of a substance, where any
63
further division would cause it to cease being a substance.
Thus a piece of rock salt can be broken up repeatedly, or
powdered to infinite fineness, yet each fragment will still be
salt. When we reach particles so small that any further pul­
verizing will cause the particles to cease being salt, we have
reached the molecules of salt.
The smallness of true molecules can be grasped when we
again use the globe of the earth for our standard. If a single
drop of water were magnified till it was as big as the earth,
each molecule in it would be about the size of the brass knob
on the post of your bed.
An atom is the unit that goes to make up the nature of the
molecule, thereby identifying the substance composing it. If
the molecule contains only one kind of an atom, the sub­
stance is defined as a chemical Element. Where the atoms
within a molecule differ, the substance is called a chemical
Compound.
It was once taught that somewhere about 80 elements had
distinct and unique atoms, incapable of being broken up into
any more basic substance. The idea has been abandoned.
The Atoms of all matter consist of etheric impulses of posi­
tive and negative electricity.
The charge of positive electricity is the centrosome or core
and is called the Proton.
The charge of negative electricity is the satellite or planet
and is called the Electron.
The mass, or inertia, of the electron-negative-satellite in the
simplest atom known— that of hydrogen—to its proton-
positive-centrosome, or sun, of the hydrogen atom, weighs
one thousand eight hundred and forty-five times as much as
64
the single electron-negative-satellite circulating around it.
"An atom,” says Millikan, "consists of a heavy core or nu­
cleus of one or more free protons, about which are grouped
enough electrons to render the atom stable,” that is, to give
it unit-balance.
The atom of hydrogen contains one proton; outside the nu­
cleus is one electron, to balance or "neutralize” the proton.
The result is a world system— an atom of hydrogen.
If our sun, to illustrate, had but one planet revolving about
it instead of eight, it would be a mere hydrogen atom in
the great Cosmic Chemistry.
The most complex natural element is uranium. Generally
speaking, it nucleus contains 92 protons, or suns, and its sat­
ellite system 92 electrons or planets. Remove one proton
from the nucleus and it is no longer an atom of uranium.
Remove ten protons and you have an atom of lead. Remove
thirteen and you have an atom of gold. And so on down—
through the whole long list of metallic materials.
Magnify the nucleus of an atom one billion times, however,
and it would still be too small to be discerned through the
highest-powered microscope. Magnify it three billion times
and the electrons are now three feet from the centrosome,
but the nucleus itself is still smaller than a pin-point.
And the electrons flying about it are even 1 /1845th of
that!
Matter then, is divisible into electrons and protons. But be­
tween electrons and protons are spaces so vast, in comparison
with the masses of each, that if the proton in the carbon
atom were designated as to size by a walnut hanging down
in the center of the great train-concourse at Pennsylvania
65
station in New York, its electrons would be represented by
six wasps winging in a little knot against the four far walls
of the structure.
All Matter then, is only an effect of Radiant Energy.
There is no final solidarity of substance to anything: all that
exists is Energy! And this means what it says. Betelgeuse
or the paper on which this book has been printed, mountains
and cabbages, airplanes and smoking tobacco, George
Washington and the Rock of Gibraltar—all are, or have
been, constructed of the one thing: Energy!
To put it in another way: The universe consists of Empti­
ness, charged with electrical energy!
Our finite minds demand: W as it created, or has it always
existed? If it was created, who created it?
The scientist says that there is no scientific data available
as to how Energy began. To cover himself and whitewash
his confinement of activity to the strictly material, or Re­
sults of Energy, he adds: "It is probably permanently un­
knowable.” Maybe so! But this is not the book that pur­
sues this bedevilment to its lair. We want to know at this
stage how the planets may have come into being. . . .
rJ"'H E AVERAGE man or woman in life today, not know­
ing the great natural processes taking place on, or be­
hind the structure of, this finite plane, assumes that great
natural upsets and disturbances— frequently resulting in ap­
palling loss of life—come from the fiats of a wrathful or
dispassionate God, exercising Himself to chastise those who
have performed malignantly toward their fellow man. We
begin to see, when we delve into the manufacture of the
66
heavenly bodies, and the processes and transformations
through which they go, age by age, and generation by gen­
eration, that they follow a code of laws with which a God
of the old-fashioned theology has little to do.
First, we discern this sublime state of Cosmic Consciousness
— or Consciousness of all that is— which for want of a better
term we call Holy Spirit, performing certain processes within
Itself that give it a realization of all its capabilities. One of
these phases is the projection of substance from combinations
of electrical energy, positive and negative. Different com­
binations and speeds of th.ese electrical assemblies give dif­
ferent essences of materials. Materials are cut, molded, con­
jured, or combined, and identifiable pattern results in outer
aspects, which men call Shape. Shape is the parent of
Measurement, and measurement is the forebear of Utility.
Now that essence of Consciousness in which the positive and
negative electrical energies operate is likewise given a name.
We commonly term it Ether. Commonly, too, we are accus­
tomed to describe it that "ether fills all Space.” But "filling”
is not exactly the descriptive word to use. Rather we should
put it that "ether is a condition of Space in which electrical
manifestation making for atomic construction of materials
is contrivable.”
Starting from the vague premise that the First-Cause Con­
sciousness can get a result in energy display within Itself,
we have the constituents of natural phenomena for evidence
that a given amount of Space contains a given potentiality
for a given amount of electrical energy, no matter what the
multiplicity of final pattern as human life eventually per­
ceives it. In other words, there is only so much primordial
67
electrical— or atom ic— energy in a designated cubic area o f
celestial Space. T h is m eans likewise that there can only be
a given am ount o f m aterialistic substance arrived at, within
that cubic area. W hat the nature o f the m aterials m ay be,
resulting from the activity o f this electrical or atom ic energy,
is therefore determ ined by the varieties o f com bination which
these electrical im pulses can effect within the field o f their
perform ance, subject to the interstellar influences bearing
upon them. W ithin our own solar Tim e-Space area, we
recognize the natural number o f these as being 92— the com­
bination o f the uranium atom . W hy there are not ten
thousand— or fifty m illion— we do not know, unless it is
that in our particular corner o f the universe, the D ivine
Energy m ay not be potent enough to achieve them.
|N A G IV EN area between planets where there are no
manifesting bodies of previously coagulated Substance, we
conceive of primordial Energy. This Energy, we say, is
"free”— that is, it is without perceivable direction or mani­
festation in the pattern of Substance. All in all, we can say
that it is a condition of interstellar Consciousness that can
become perceivable as unit combinations begin to be arrived
at. To make this plainer, we go out on a clear night and
look at the North Star. Its light seems to travel from that
essence of demonstrated celestial energy in a straight line
to our eyeballs. Because it so travels, for all practical pur­
poses of vision, we say "there is nothing between the North
Star and our eyes but Space.” But mayhap we are by no
means telling ourselves the truth. Mayhap there is every­
thing between the North Star and our eyeballs necessary for
68
the construction or integration of a planet just as big and
substantial as our earth, only it is existing in a "free” or un­
condensed state. In other words, all that space which we
imagine to be so "empty,” may truly be filled with world-
stuffs— in the form of unconcentrated materials— to pre­
cisely the quantity contained in the orb on which we stand
to get our view of the star. Because we can’t see it at the
moment, doesn’t prove that it isn’t there. There happens
to be such a thing as Atmosphere blanketing us around our
earth, but no one as yet has ever seen it. All of us, however,
concede its existence, because we "breathe” it. In other
words, we get our demonstration of its reality through other
senses and physical functions than the eyes. But there is still
another phenomenon about the condition of "free” space
between the North Star and ourselves that we are prone to
ignore. It is the universality of direction which the Light
display is achieving, and which parallels the existence of
free energy in that area.
We look at the North Star and accept that its light is
traveling in a straight line, from star to our eyeball. It has
every appearance of giving out a ray, like a beam from a
searchlight, that travels the millions of miles from the polar
star to the spot where we may be regarding it. But if we
move a foot to right or left, or a hundred miles to right or
left, or even if we travel off this planet altogether and regard
the same star from Venus or Saturn, the searchlight-beam
effect still holds. What, therefore, is being demonstrated
but the fact that the star is not giving out any searchlight
beam at all, but that its radiance is being projected in every
direction at once, and finding its way to every corner of the
69
universe— so long as there be no solid bodies to obstruct it?
Light from that star, in fact, is as universal as the scent of
an orange becomes universal when released in a room by
merely puncturing the peel.
The light from that distant polar star— which is truly a
great sun set at immense distance— is shining out in spherical
pattern, and filling every nook and cranny of space as it goes.
Nothing but the peculiar construction of our own organ of
sight makes it appear to take the searchlight-beam pattern.
By the same token, we have Free Energy existing in inter­
stellar space but unrecognizable until it attains an effect that
our senses can react to, in their own peculiar and circum­
scribed function. It is as omnipresent as radio waves carry­
ing the same voice or music into ten million homes and into
whatever rooms in those homes the receiving-sets may be
performing.
But something suggests to all that omnipresent Free Energy
that it should begin to coagulate, and get into pattern— to
form a forthcoming planet. What is it? Where does the
initial motivating Force of Direction for that primordial
electrical potency come from?
The folklore contained in Genesis describes it that "in the
beginning all was without form-—and void— and darkness
was upon the face of the deep. And the spirit of God moved
upon the face of the waters. And God said: Let there be
light, and there was light.” All of which fixes up the Funda­
mentalists to a tee. All the explanation they require seems
to be that "God did it,” and beyond it they are not supposed
to think.
What the Fundamentalists are not aware of is that in the
70
original texts, the word used, indicating God, was Elohim—
which again translated literally meant, "the Spirits that were
the stars.” Take note, by the way, that the term is employed
in the plural sense.
"The Spirit that were the stars” moved upon the face of the
"waters” and brought Form out of the "deep” and the
"void.” What spirits of what stars? What is this ancient
Chaldean lore trying to convey to us?— for it is Chaldean,
and not Hebrew. The Hebrews plagiarized shamelessly from
the wisdom of surrounding nations and called it their own.
^ H A T it is all too patent that the Chaldean authorities
were attempting to convey in the opening verses of the
Book of Genesis is that coagulation of Free Energy began
in respect to our own tenantless area of Space when influ­
ences from surrounding heavenly bodies began to be of such
a nature that the Free Energy in our own Time-Space Area
was affected, and started to be driven in rotating pattern.
Electrical planetary influence came into our Space area in
one potency and traveled freely till it met an intersecting in­
fluence similarly traveling from some other centrosome. The
two collided and moved at a right-angular direction till a
third influence was similarly encountered. After a series of
such meetings, collidings, and re-directings, a circular move­
ment was begun— or, as we say, etheric revolution was cre­
ated. Whatever antagonistic influences came to bear on the
mass were overcome, if they happened to be less than the
momentum already generated. If the influence was greater,
and tending in the direction of the mass, then such influence
71
only helped the mass on its way, to still more awesome mo­
mentum. The electrical display which, when incandescent,
we commonly call nebula, could then be faintly perceived
growing in our particular portion of the heavens—had there
been watchers on other planetary systems to observe it, which
there probably were!
Whereupon, this electrical nebula began to coalesce and com­
bine in the different atomic assemblies, making for what man
now knows as the planetary materials— the minerals, metals,
chemicals and vapors. The free Space in our particular por­
tion of the heavens was becoming a gigantic chemical retort
— or at least a laboratory—where atoms with their protons
and electrons were finding their affinities, quite in the same
fashion that they are made to repeat the process synthetically
on a smaller scale in the physicist’s laboratory of today.
If the rationalizing reader asks at this point where the origi­
nal energy came from, that helped project the First Influences
making for the first batch of planets— or heavenly bodies—
whose influences went forth like the North Star’s rays and
affected Free Energy for the making of subsequent worlds,
we must answer in terms of metaphysics that have to do with
the components and eccentricities of Omnipotent Thought.
But by no means should we use that term carelessly, or for
the orthodox convenience with which it is so often employed
to get rid of something difficult of understanding. Suppose,
therefore, before we start pulling suns or planets out of the
hat of Omnipotent Thought like cosmic magicians, that we
give consideration for a moment to what we mean when we
say "Omnipotent Thought,” particularly in regard to its
ability to put Energy into formal operation in the first place.
72
^ M N I P O T E N T Thought is the description derived from
certain Latin origins to convey the idea of that type or
degree of Thought that is concerned with "all that is!” It
is the First Cause Thought that we commonly attribute to a
creative God. Considered as a form of consciousness, we
present ourselves with the notion of Holy Spirit, which is the
"solemn” form of writing "Wholly Spirit.” Omnipotent
Thought then, is the process that operates in attestment of
the consciousness of all that is wholly spirit. Shortening the
equation for a quick and easier grasp of what I mean, put it
this way: A dormant—or subjective— state of Consciousness-
of-All-that-IS arouses to produce forms that may be recog­
nizable by Itself in units— such production bringing into
"existence” what we know as the objective universe. The
dormant state of Consciousness is "free” Energy. When it
directs itself to concoct or produce forms it is "controlled”
Energy giving itself to the business of Creation. This in
turn raises the inquiry in logical minds: But where does that
Consciousness come from in the first place, even though dor­
mant or subjective? Right here we depart from the ortho­
dox abstruseness of the philosophers, whether sacred or secu­
lar, and try to acquire an understanding of Consciousness
such as we have never had before.
The orthodox notion of Consciousness is that state of some
organic creation by which it recognizes itself internally and
its environment externally, or the objective relationships, one
to the other. Why, however, should we everlastingly insist
on organic mechanism’s being a factor in that equation?
Why not dispense with the organic mechanism, looking at
it only as a sheathing for Consciousness or some sort of in-
73
strument by which Consciousness gets recognizable results
when finding Itself employed in a material environment?
The new departure that I want to bring to your attention
and try to make a factor in your thinking, after you have
finished with this book, is that spirit-consciousness is the fun­
damental ingredient out of which the entire universe is shape-
fully constructed. Everything is its product. In fact, we can
almost go so far as to say that any aspect of the universe
which we behold is, in itself, only some aspect of spirit-
consciousness.
Spirit-consciousness isn’t a state of a spirit’s being alive. It
is the aliveness of itself, that we describe as spirit. And this
aliveness, to be all that it is, is eternal and self-motivating.
In other words, it has had no beginning and can have no
end, any more than the idea of a lily can have a beginning
and an end considered purely as an idea. And whenever It
considers Itself in any aspect, there and in that instant is
something produced. I will try to explain further in terms
of yourself. Last night in a dream you went through a series
of experiences in a place you failed to recognize, meeting peo­
ple whom generally you have never been acquainted with in
your waking hours. While you were in the dream, all was
quite as real to you as this material book you are now read­
ing for an hour, while other mortals known to you pass in
and out of the room. At times, you’ll remember, it seemed
as though you "made up” whole sequences of your dream
as you went along. You "lived your dream-environment in
thought” and while you thus created it, you dressed it, oc­
cupied it, and peopled it. W as any part of your physical
mechanism concerned in it? Your physical mechanism was
74
V
prone upon a bed, with eyelids closed and seeing by no lamp
— which had been extinguished before you dropped asleep.
Let’s say you dreamed about going upon a Sabbath School
picnic. You didn’t particularly recognize the lakeside where
it was held, you had never bought the clothes in an earthly
shop which you wore on that outing, you failed to recognize
most of the picnickers present there with you, while the state
of the weather or the day of the month was not especially a
dream-factor either. Nothing in the room in which your
body lay had to do with projecting or shaping that picnic
environment. No people were in your bedroom while you
slept who could have had anything to do with the person­
ality-images amidst whom you moved for an unmeasured
time. Organisms and material mechanics had little to do
with your dream as an adventure. All of it was "mental.”
You clothed yourself in thought, you located yourself in
thought, you deployed your spirit in thought, yet withal you
knew a picnic quite as real for the sequence as any outing
ever attended in the flesh. Above all, the entire adventure
was self-motivated. No other person’s consciousness helped
you to shape the dream, dictated any of its factors, or
brought it to conclusion— unless you want to admit of the
milkman who fell over a hydrant down in the street as he
was returning to his cart and broke his wire basket of bottles
with a crash that aroused you. True, externals contacting
your inert body might have contributed suggestions to your
consciousness by reflexes, controlling certain features of your
dream. But taken as an episode, the experience was wholly
spiritual— something manufactured and experienced only by
your spirit. Well, what started you dreaming any dream at
75
all? Were you serving any purpose freighted with immedi­
ate and practical compensations, by thus capering about in
sleep? Did you have to alibi the business of experiencing a
dream to any other person after you awakened? O f course
not. The dream was an exhibit of spiritual consciousness do­
ing little else than proving to itself that it was conscious and
could negotiate the feat of such capricious self-awareness for
the sake of the phenomenon in itself. So, if such a thing
as a dream can thus exercise inwardly in regard to the unit
of Consciousness in the mortal state that the world now calls
You, it can exercise in the greater state of universality and
be known as a thing apart from anything organic or ma­
terial. It’s the basic independence—or individualism—of the
thing called Consciousness, of itself, that I’m trying to reg­
ister by such metaphor.
"B ut,” you protest, "I was alive, and conscious, and had a
spirit-soul that had resided a given number of solar years in
an organic body, before I ever undertook to engage in that
dream!” A ll of which I grant. Supposing you have been
alive, and conscious, and incarnate in a body before the
dream began, is one exhibit of consciousness much different
from the other? Things were equally "real” to you at the
office in the afternoon, at the dinner table before you retired.
They were externally real in those cases, however, whereas
in the dream they were internally real. But the realness of
both was the same— as realness—never mind from which
source it was derived. The consciousness in the first sense
performed in a material environment, in the second in a men­
tal environment. In neither case did it alter—as Conscious­
ness. It merely altered as to aspect of exercise. Thereby was
76
it—in both cases—an independent factor, self-motivating,
ageless—since such Consciousness is not one whit different
to you at eighty years than it was at eight.
Now indulge me for a moment in the fantasy that the Om­
nipotent or All-Encompassing Thought Consciousness could
similarly engage in an ageless dream from which it could
never awaken, that all things entering into its dream were
thereby given self-motivating reality in their own right; and
perchance you begin to see how even a materialistic world
of exercised free or dormant energy could be permanently
projected.
You ask me where the Energy came from in the first place,
and I ask you where the energy came from that created a
picnic grove, a lake, boats filled with people, church mem­
bers, and even ants to attack the sandwiches, in last night’s
dream. You as a dreaming creator may have utilized energy
to function as an individual so that your dream could be
dreamed, but you put forth no actual energy to grow the
pine trees, dig the lake, give birth to the people, and design
the sandwiches and ants, all of which resulted in a dream­
outing quite as real and pleasurable as anything ever experi­
enced in the flesh. You say that your dream properties were
truly a Condition of Consciousness. I say that the energetic
properties making up the world we see about us in the wak­
ing state are likewise a Condition of Consciousness in so far
as Wholly Spirit has to expend anything outside of Itself
to effect them.
C O N S C IO U S N E S S , however, as a state of something,
ought to be discarded as an idea, inasmuch as we have
77
the right—when considering it as a state of something—to
ask what that something is, and how it came to have identity
in the first place. More nearly correctly we could say: Con­
sciousness is a Something in and unto Itself, that, upon
operating to any degree, produces an effect that we term an
idea, in some phase of action that becomes recognizable to
itself, whether incarnate or not, in an aspect of Form.
It is by no means any kindergarten business to take such a
stupendous mental leap between the one concept and the
other, and few there are who successfully accomplish it.
They have to betake themselves from an objective world—
where realities are all arrived at from items apart from them­
selves—and plunge into a subjective world, where nothing
exists or is real unless it’s inside themselves— that is to say,
purely mental.
Take Consciousness, or the ability to be subjectively self-
aware, as the primal and only essence of all Cosmos, and
then consider the material— or electrical—universe, with our
incarnate selves included, as the never-ending dream that It
dreams to workable reality within Itself, and you outline
the notion for mental acceptability of Free Space as the lab­
oratory wherein the etheric thought-processes happen that
start worlds and nebulae spinning on their way. How this
same Omnipotent Consciousness may break Itself up into
particles, each particle endowed with all the attributes of the
Whole, and these elect to enter into, and function by means
of, organic mortal mechanisms called physical bodies, is some­
thing to engage us in a place ahead. Right now we’re ex­
ploring, as understanding^ as we can, the All-Encompassing
Intelligence that operates to get formal results within Itself
78
that such particle-manifestations can recognize and utilize.
What is of the more urgent interest at this point, is the query
concerning the behavior of the more complicated atoms in
the mass as a master-phase of the Intelligence in action.
T H IS behavior rests the whole structure of planet
composition and subsequent history.
Try to get this if you can—
The more complicated the atomic structure, as regards pro­
tons and electrons, the greater the density of the resultant
"material,” and the denser the resultant material, the nearer
to the center of the Energy Coagulation the material will lo­
cate. In other words, the more furious and concentrated the
atomic energy, the more readily it will act as the centrosome
-—or core— for that which is being manifested as an em­
bryonic world. And about and around this core or "most
furious and complicated display,” lesser displays and simpler
affinities will adjust themselves— in what physics ordinarily
labels Specific Gravity.
This means, in practical effect, that the heaviest of all ma­
terials will be found composing the core of the coming
planet, and the lightest or gaseous materials will be found
on the outer surface. Surface is, of course, more or less of
a metaphorical term to use here, inasmuch as all the materials
in such a nebulous world are in a state of stupendous flux.
Such a nebula— that down future aeons will be a planet as
solid as our present earth-—revolve at a scarcely conceivable
rate which, like a Gargantuan wheel, would tend to keep
most of the lighter fluid or gaseous essences on its outer
edges.
79
In all of this, take note, we are not departing far from the
general exposition set forth allegorically in the opening chap­
ters of Genesis. Scientists tell us that back in the times
when our planet first took shape, it must have made a com­
plete night-and-day revolution in a matter of three hours
or thereabout, as compared with the twenty-four hours
which it requires for a revolution today. This meant that
all the lighter substances in the mass-—water particularly—
would be hurled, and held, something like 17,000 miles
above what was later to become the planet’s inhabitable sur­
face.
The time is ahead when our earth may slow down to a com­
plete stop as it feels the restraining influence from other
heavenly bodies. Then it will lose its atmosphere and emu­
late its moon, rolling through space a cold, dead satellite.
Once this earth rotated on its axis every three hours, so fast
was its speed, holding its water content aloft by sheer cen­
trifugal force. This means that every drop of free water in
its oceans was once in the skies, 17,000 miles in the skies.
As the earth slowed its speed, the centrifugal force decreased
and allowed those ocean waters to fall. The last great pre­
cipitation is known the the Flood of Noah.
At present, as aforesaid, the earth has slowed to a point
where it takes twenty-four hours to make its revolution. Its
oceans are all on its surface and its heavens are clear. When
our earth slows to a point that its revolution is almost im­
perceptible, or stops altogether, then is it in danger of being
drawn into the orbit of some neighboring planet or sun that
may be exhibiting a strong centripetal pull; thereat will come
a flash in the heavens, similar to that seen any evening; a
80
star of the first magnitude will be born to live fo- ari.
mstant
aVetilv
and then flash out. If it goes crashing into another f^
body which has exerted its influence to pull or atra<.yf ^
new force of energy may be precipitated to travel fort/ f
help build up a new planet in turn.
Thus it may be said that it takes two or more planets to n.
a new one. Wherever a collision precipitates a condition t.
causes points of interference or opposition in the exhibit \
free rotary-energy, or turning motion as I have described, oi
of the centrosome, you have some new form of creation
the Cosmos.
How many years it requires to get a spiral nebula to a point
where it begins to assume a definite outline, like our present
sun, we do not know, and it is unimportant because outside
of this finite system of Cause and Effect, Time is no factor.
But suppose you have a great spiral nebula congealing and
condensing into such a form as our sun now exhibits. Great
life-giver that it is, none the less its condition represents the
status of our own earth hundreds of millions of years in the
past.
Would the hypothesis astound you, that our sun may be a
new planet in act of condensation?
LE
TU S carry the thought of this great spiral nebula made
of uncountable trillions of electric granules. Think of
the same process applied in the manufacturing of materials.
If you have a nucleus of Positive electricity, with an affinity
of Negative electricity traveling at an incredible rate of
speed around it in an orbit, you have the composition of
the electric granules out of which Matter is built up. Dif-
81
terete
•ates of velocity at which the Negative charges, or
" ^ p s, a"e traveling about the Positive cores or protons—
e rvere‘t combinations of electrons revolving around dif-
combinations of protons—give different varieties of
-terials.
lydrogen, for instance, is the simplest exposition of this
great principle. One charge of Negative electricity revolving
around a single Positive core, gives the composition of hy­
drogen, the simplest element. There maintain in ether all
those types of electrical charges which must build up from
impacts of various energies, meeting opposition. This would
seem to suggest Chaos in the original cosmos. And it is
Chaos until straightened out, and those electrical charges
straighten themselves out by laws of specific gravity of a sort
— those combinations which are the more complex forming
the denser central mass and leaving the less complex, or
"lighter,” on the outside or at the point farthest from the
centrosome.
When a spiral nebula is evolved in space by impingements
of energy projected out of neighboring heavenly bodies, the
moment arrives when the mass begins to generate heat and
therefore incandescence. That portion which turns the slow­
est is known as the Core. In this vast field of force, spherical
in shape, is projected the result that we call a sun, incan­
descent as its rays impinge on other substances and are dif­
fused.
The old, old question: what makes the sun round, is not
the platitudinous blither that we may have accepted, not
knowing certain processes at work in the cosmos. What
makes any sphere round? In the field of physics we are told
82
that roundness comes to liquid bodies moving in free space
because of an equalized pressure of 14.7 pounds to the
square inch. But in the case of planet out in airless space,
there can be no such atmospheric pressure, for they may
have no stratosphere about them and still be round. A
theory not generally accredited now, but which presents
many plausibilities for research, is that there may be such a
thing as external energy pressure, operating precisely as air
pressure now exerts itself on free bodies. Molten lead, let
drop from a high place, will shape itself into spheres. Thus
did our grandfathers in colonial time make their bullets; from
a tall tower they dropped molten lead toward the ground.
As it fell, it cooled. It cooled in perfect spherical shape be­
cause of an equal pressure of surrounding atmosphere upon
the molten lead.
Newton believed that he discovered the Law of Gravity. He
thought an apple fell to ground because the earth "attracted”
it. When we investigate some of these commonly accepted
principles, we discover that just because they have been gen­
erally accepted does not necessarily mean that they are true.
Someone may come along ultimately and "discover” that
apples quitting boughs and landing on the ground are
pushed by some force above them, and that in that pushing
a radio-energy is applied from above. Some etheric condi­
tion, of itself, may exert this pushing movement that we
have always assumed to be the earth’s attraction.
Understand clearly that I only toss this out as a whimsical
suggestion. I don’t mean it as literally true. Roundness in
the shaping of the heavenly bodies more accurately results
from the magnetic pull on ail materials within a given field’s
83
being exactly equal from the center or core. When this
equal pull exercises in motion, the stalemate of spherical
Shape is reached.
However, we are really getting too far ahead of our theme
to discuss astronomically or geologically as yet, how the
various bodies in the solar systems integrate as to materials
to give us stars, suns, and planets. These are organized as­
pects which materials take, after being brought into percepti­
ble existence. W hat I’ve mentioned to this point about the
size and peculiarities of the astronomical universe has been
offered merely as a background for the materialistic universe
as we regard it objectively. We know that materials exist
because the astronomical universe is self-provenly made of
them. W e regard this astronomical universe in its entirety,
admit that it has been contrived of materials, and ask: W hat
are they, where did they get their substance and pattern, and
how does Omnipotent Consciousness as a basic condition
obtain the materialistic universe as another condition? In
other words, what we want to examine from the very begin­
ning is how the universe of substance—particularly as it in­
cludes our earth— is built up. W e might almost express our
quest for knowledge in this regard: How does omnipotent
and abstract Consciousness set to work in each instance to
shape the dormant energy that is popularly named the Ether
into what incarnate man perceives as M atter? This means
that we have to tap into sources of information that are
higher than our mortal octave and ask students who are al­
ready familiar with the Workshop of Divine Processes to
give us the benefit of their advanced observation.
84
H O W ETH ER O BEY S C O N SC IO U SN E SS
[)E A R L Y Beloved Brethren in Mortality: That which
comes to you from high, high Planes of Thought is sent
to you for a purpose. Wisdom is peculiar in this: that it is
ever and always intended for a specific group of people. It
falls on deaf ears otherwise. It is known in advance that it
falls on deaf ears otherwise. But there are ever those in life
who recognize prophecy for that which it is: divine warning
to certain elect souls to pursue with still greater diligence
and devotion the essence of their missions, that the times
may know profit as those ascribed to certain missions show
effort in their functionings.
We tell you that you are having revealed to you, your elec­
tion to honor; that you have a privilege in this, to make
known to your brethren everywhere the import of the times
through which they are passing.
Outwardly the world appears to you very much as it has
always appeared; only in its great deep rumblings and under­
currents do those among you who are wise, discern the ap-
proachments of a new social order. And to those who seek
sincerely to understand that order, much is revealed that has
hitherto been hidden.
The world approaches a crossroads in eternity. Greater is­
sues than men dream of, are propounded for its notice. Some
there are who must excel in leadership. Some must excel in
inventiveness, in arts, in sciences as yet unknown to men
85
who seek through materials to fathom the divine Godhead.
W e tell you that all is transcendent Light, the blossoming
of the flower of perfect Godhood and knighthood among
every people of every land, the ultimate leadership of One
whom you have long expected. But to some of you H e comes
already in the Still Small Voice that offers you wisdom in
place of your tumult, that makes you scholars of the infinite
already—perceiving those high values not ordinarily accru­
ing to men until they have left their mortal flesh behind
them.
Harken therefore, and learn further of the divine laws and
customs that contend behind M atter, that make the world
as you see it and perchance suffer from it in that your ig­
norance has not yet been lifted. W e go further with you
this hour into the stupendous phenomena that build up ma­
terials for you in Spirit as ambergris appears upon ocean-
waves. Be not cast down in your judgments if you see not
the cause, nor the opportunity to put these pronouncements
at once into practice. Behold it is a long, long way that you
have come in past blindness. The Chart of the Ages has
been covered as by a hand. As that Hand lifts gradually,
do you take to heart the pattern disclosed and perform for
yourselves what is modeled from your knowledge in each
specific instance . . .
^ / E H A V E declared on other pages that God was not a
mystical Being in the heavens, sitting on a dais, wait­
ing for humankind to pass before Him and be judged. W e
told you that H e was the stone beneath your feet, the air
in your nostrils, the bird winging above the treetops, the
86
finger of the babe that is pinched in its crib. He literally
is Material, in every sense and analysis that your conscious­
ness can grasp. He is every atom in your physical body. He
is singing telephone wire and thundering airplane. All the
ingredients making up the Matter entering into the struc­
ture of the universe, from protoplasm to protogine, are but
dilferent grades of the Divine Spirit getting an exposition
that under every status and condition of human conscious­
ness and human endurance shall have similar reaction on the
individual human consciousness.
It is the Completeness of this effect that makes it the miracle
that it is. There are in the universe thousands of grades
and modifications of seeing and sensing, discernible only to
beings of special orders and creation. For humankind is not
the only order of living creatures that exists, even beyond the
apex of mortal development.
That is to say, there are Planes of Reality where only special
forms of Consciousness can be used in order to recognize
that they are real at all. But in the universe of finite form
and substance— the only universe that you can know or com­
prehend at present— there is a condition offered where sen­
tient souls of every type and form know what Divine Spirit
is saying and doing, by the common instrument of intellec­
tual transmission offered in and by Form and Substance.
This is another way of saying to you that there is no such
thing as Form or Substance apart from Mind; and while
this is not the exact fact, it is true in so far as it applies
to you as a mortal individual.
There is nothing of Reality apart from Divine Mind at least,
and what you see as the world all about you is nothing but
87
the demonstration of Incarnate Consciousness getting an ef­
fect that shall be noticed by, and called to the attention of,
all the so-called human factions within Its own composition
that partake of Its intellectual attributes.
Put it in this way: Divine Mind had to have some way of
expressing Form even before Form was conceivable. And
while God as universal Consciousness was the embodiment
of all Form even while it was still formless, this Form had
to be brought out into recognizable pattern in order to per­
ceive differences within Itself in each instance— this in order
that the "intellectual embryo” that was the forthcoming hu­
man being might recognize all that the body of God com­
prised. . . . This, in fact, was the origin of Vibration. M at­
ter grew up out of Thought’s projecting Itself as a whole,
in such form that It could be universally recognized and
correctly interpreted by each and all of its parts. The things
you know as Substances, therefore, are merely various grades,
or shades or degrees, of intellectual comparisons of Divine
Possibilities. And beyond this, there is no thinking.
That is to say, Vibration came out of the necessity of get­
ting grades and modifications of the Divine Possibilities into
such shape that they might be recognizable by all specimens
of sentient consciousness, in such manner that each human
intelligence might grasp the fecundities and attributes of
the Whole as a functioning Entity with a mission to per­
form unto Itself in those peculiar separations of sentient
intellect that are everywhere known as Men.
How Vibration came about is interesting.
Let us explain it to you, if we can, in this wise—
88
^ O M E T H IN G had to be done to make the individual
intellect, or the sentient human being, realize his own
identity as a particle of a great self-motivated and conscious
composition. In the exact degree that energy could work
sense reactions, the human particle could become aware of
its own individuality. To this end, the faintest and frailest
forms of early substance in Matter came into being as simple
units of etheric urges.
There was no colossal creation in an instant of time, as you
know Time in the mortal state. Energy had to gather unto
itself recognition of its own capacity to perform as energy.
It had to pass through various stages of development, exactly
as each human consciousness has to go upward through grade
after grade of experiencing in order to arrive at a given de­
gree of Self-Awareness.
The simplest forms of molecular energy began to manifest
in Universal Substance— if indeed we can use that term,
although Primal Essence would be better—and out of its
behavior as it experimented, built up the various complexities
of movement that have since become the exhibits of Matter.
We are going to put it in another way for an easier grasping
on your part: The reason that men cannot discover the Ether
literally in their laboratories and elsewhere is not because
they are stupid, or backward in applying their scientific
learning. Nor is it because such an idea-concept as Ether
does not exist.
The true fact is that they are looking for a substance that
shall resemble Substance as they have come to know it, in­
stead of looking for the "foundation essence” out of which
all substance has been derived.
89
They seek something inherently different of structure and
composition than they have any knowledge of, when they
try to define Ether with test tube and mercury light.
W e have to use language that is sometimes misleading when
we are bringing down into the Finite great essences that
have no equal in the facts of life as men encounter them
through the aspects of their senses in a three-dimensional
sphere of consciousness. Drawing comparisons in terms of
Image-Pictures, or likening them to substances, is the nearest
that we can come to transferring to mortal grasp what is
meant by such a spatial phenomenon as Ether.
Men have come to interpret Ether as a form of invisible gas
— colorless, odorless, weightless, and perhaps spaceless. They
do this because they must have Essence in such shape that
they can picture it. But Ether is not one substance out of
which another substance— or even all substances— is or are
manufactured by Divine Intellect acting as the artisan. In­
tellect in this case is not so much the artisan, as It is the
"force that accomplishes the result” . . . the force, we say.
It is as though a body of workingmen, having some end to
attain for their own profit, passed resolutions that they
would take certain steps as an organization. Whereupon they
delegated to a committee the special job of executing the
matter which up till then had been merely a mental agree­
ment.
Essence, or Ether, therefore might be likened to that Cause
which necessitated the passing of the resolutions, not the
resolutions themselves nor the instruments or agencies by
which the committee executed its commission.
Ether is not substance. That is why men cannot find it in
90
their laboratories that treat with substance, nor analyze or
define it. Ether is the cause o£ substance’s coming into being.
The substance itself is energy, a thought-impulse in Divine
Consciousness that brings about a result sensible to all forms
of finite mortal consciousness.
BU
T
-you say in effect, "That appears to be making some­
thing out of nothing.” Again you go wrong in your
thinking as to what constitutes "something.” . . . There is
neither "something” nor "nothing” in the universe. There is
only universal God Essence, or Thought Incarnate, getting
a type of exposition that is understandable, by the so-called
senses, to Its many separate parts. And when you have said
that, you have explained every phenomenon and "miracle”
that have anything to do with your mortality.
You bump into the corner of a door, suffer sharp pain, and
see a bruise result in a swelling on your forehead. You say
to us, "Don’t tell me that the door isn’t real, that it isn’t
composed of something!” We say to you, "Yes, the door is
very real, but only to your gradation of consciousness that
discerns yourself first as a mortal individual. And no other
purpose is achieved by having the door there, or the resultant
accident of your bumping into it. There may be a hundred
types of consciousness that could bump into that door and
have no worse effects than you would suffer if you bumped
into a cloud of steam. If those types of consciousness had
no eyes to see the steam, they would readily argue that no
steam was there, just as they would be stout in maintaining
that no door existed, that the door wasn’t real. You say
the door is real, because a body which you are occupying,
91
and in which your consciousness is functioning, has the same
spatial consistency in a fashion as the door. The two come
into collision. Sense reactions galvanize and carry to your
Seat of Consciousness. The door is only real, however, as
your physical vehicle that collided with it is real.”
You have learned by that bump, by the collision of these
coagulations of materials, in one of which you are function­
ing, that you exist—that your consciousness is your con­
sciousness because it receives the sense reactions from the col­
lision with the door. All of it is a projection in Pure
Thought, however, that has nothing to do with the door as
a form of material, since you might run into the same door,
we say, composed of paper or feathers, with exactly the same
force, or with your head protected by a pillow, and not suffer
any particular distress.
The door as a door exists for quite another purpose than ber
ing one factor in a physical collision. It closes an opening
in your wall, principally that hot or cold air, depending upon
the season, or unwelcome persons, may not enter your dwell­
ing and inflict other forms of distress upon you. Does it
all sum up to anything but that same education in other
forms: O f becoming aware of the reality of yourself as sepa­
rate and distinct from the realities of any object external
to you as a sensing entity?
Substance therefore is largely a mental recognition.
Getting back to the composition of M atter, however, we
find that regardless of the form that Substance takes
throughout the universe, it furnishes a vehicle or instrument
by which Consciousness in some aspect or other is heightened
in awareness of Itself.
92
By the same token we might say to you with equal truth
that the Something out of which came the form and sub­
stance from Nothing is merely the designing of an idea,
but not the kind of idea you commonly call up when you
try to register to yourself what an idea is.
Again you must keep clearly before you the realization of
what an Idea is made of: not an abstraction in picture-
imagery but a recognition of some active phase of the Di­
vine Principle that is true reality.
Vibration is the motive energy that comes out of etheric
dormant energy, and becomes the thing called Substance.
"Comes out,” we tell you, not "made from” or "caused by.”
Ether, therefore, can never be defined in terms of substance.
It can never be segregated in a laboratory or charted on an
X-ray screen.
Make no mistake here. It may exhibit certain properties or
peculiarities of substance, but Substance itself Ether cannot
be, because it is the Thought behind Substance similar to
the Cause behind the resolution of those workingmen.
93
Chapter III
T H O U G H T IS M O TIV A TIO N
N T H E M IN D S of nine out of ten persons,
Thought and Thinking are one and the
same. That is to say, human beings in the
conscious state perform the mental feat of
observing, registering their impressions from
observation, comparing and concluding, and when they have
finished these esoteric and spiritual performances, they call
the process Thought. D are to suggest that they may be
wrong and they will look at you askance. Do not all the
best dictionaries sustain their acceptance that the process
of thinking, in the accumulate, is recognized as being
Thought? Consider these definitions: "Thought: The act,
process, or power of thinking; loosely, any mental activity;
the exercise of the mind in its widest sense; more strictly,
that of the intellectual faculties only.” Another dictionary
says: "T h at which is produced by thinking; a concept as the
product of conception; a judgment as the product of
judging.”
The true metaphysician looks upon such definition as being
as puerile as it is paradoxical. And withal it is messy rea­
soning. As sensibly say that by eating an apple, the result
94
is an apple in the hand, or an apple in its identity as an
item of fruit. Like a thousand such mortal observations—
or observations made from this octave of consciousness—
the cart is being put before the horse. Suppose we try for
a moment to grasp the Higher Essence of Thought.
Thought is not that which has been performed when think­
ing has been engaged in. It is rather that which has been
the motivation for the exercise of the mental faculties.
Thinking is the result— even the by-product— of Thought.
It is what occurs in the human mind when Thought aggres­
sively operates. To say that Thought is the result of Think­
ing, is to say that the human mind— or the spiritual mind—
is in itself capable of originating ideas. If such were true,
we should have the unquestionable instance of Something
being produced from Nothing.
The trouble with the human race down all the ages has been
that in trying to account for the phenomenon of Conscious­
ness it has persistently accepted Consciousness as being a
sentient state of the spiritual mind instead of considering
Consciousness, or the ability to think, as the ability to re­
spond to Thought in its cosmic activations.
All down the ages that have ever been, man has egotistically
accepted that his conscious state produced Thought instead
of receiving it. Man’s peculiar nature of consciousness is
such that he can scarcely accredit spiritual processes of any
type happening outside his own mental self— or at least out­
side mental equipment somewhat similar to his own. Noth­
ing spiritual or mental can have actuality unless some sort
of brain organism be present either to handle or project it.
In other words, the human consciousness or ego deports it-
95
self very much like the radio cabinet that says: "Because I
receive ether waves and make an intelligible audition of
them, thereby is it demonstrated that what is thus broadcast
by me, originates within myself. W ithout me there would
be no such intelligible auditions, so to say that they may
originate somewhere outside of myself is patently absurd.”
In thus putting the cart before the horse, rests nine-tenths
of humankind’s inability to comprehend the major mysteries
of the physical and spiritual universe. Man seeks to explain
all that is by what transpires strictly within himself, as cri­
terion of the whole, and he ends by not even understanding
his own essence.
ry"'H E G REA T reversal of considering and reasoning which
takes man out from under the Luciferian influence and
into the Christ concept of materiality, is to throw over­
board these orthodox notions such as the dictionary describes
in the instance of Thought, and view mortal man as a spir­
itual organism that, while occupying a physical mechanism,
is able to react to such Thought-galvanisms—or better "fre­
quencies”— as his condition or need invites.
Put it, if you are obsessed with this Thinking-is-Thought
conviction, that all the thoughts which have ever been
thought by anyone, or which ever will be thought by anyone
so long as sentient life operates, are in existence of a sort,
just as the radio waves giving us tonight’s broadcasts are in
existence of a sort. Whatever thought a person thinks, no
matter in what association of ideas—so-called—or from
what motivations, have existence first, and the human ego
opens himself to them, receives them, and utilizes them. If
96
it be difficult to accept this, considering the demands of one’s
personality, think of it that the force-making-for-thoughts-
of-a-special-character is in existence, and has always been
in existence, and that each of us is sensitive to it and enter­
tains it—perhaps "calls on it” would be better— in any given
mental situation where the performance of such force is
necessary to existence or self-awareness. Call it the Life-
Force, call it what you will, spirit-man is the very essence of
its unfailing performance in his every conscious notion and
deed.
He may argue in his three-dimensional way that Thought
cannot come before Thinking because it could not create it­
self; someone, somewhere, sometime, would have had to
originate "all the thoughts that have ever been thought by
anyone,” just as radio waves cannot create themselves but
have to be originated and projected from the broadcasting
station. But in the higher realms of philosophy, Thought
is not a mere handling of ideas by conscious entities; it is
the basic nature of the universe which, either performing or
expressing itself, produces the atomic phenomena which we
describe as materials. Materials in turn produce the phe­
nomena known as Form, Shape, Size, and Function. Ob­
servation of these, by and through the senses, recognition of
them, and to a degree utilization of them, combine to give
performing Consciousness the realization of itself in the indi­
vidual, forever intensifying the self-awareness. The business
from beginning to end is really more of a condition than a
process, a constant, perpetual and self-sustaining condition.
It has always existed, and ever must exist, because the very
concept of Existence itself is part and parcel of it.
97
People who bumptiously tell themselves that there is nothing
new under the sun, can well afford to dwell on this proposi­
tion for a time and make a real effort to grasp it. Thought
as the total compendium of all which ever has, or ever could
be, conceived by anyone in any state of consciousness was
of factual essence before ever a materialistic mote in all Cos­
mos was perceptible. The first mote foreshadowing the pro­
jection of all which contributes to make Cosmos perceptible,
was the tangible product of it. After billions of ages, as we
mortals reckon solar time, fragments of this Holy Thought
enhoused themselves in exhibits of the formal substances it
had evolved from variations and coagulations of the mote,
and thus Intelligent Objectivity was arrived at. This Intelli­
gent Objectivity has now proceeded so far in the man-
demonstration of itself that the primal essence of Cosmos
has been lost sight of, or rather, the materialistic basis for
itself has been accepted, and man of the Twentieth Century
on the planet Earth insists that he must "think” as a process
instead of recognizing— or better, remembering—that the
process of thinking is merely the objective manifestation of
an originally subjective Idea-State in entirety with an iden­
tity unto itself. It is a hard notion to grasp and few there
are who get it. Christ got it. Human life has been made
notable up across the ages by avatars and "masters” who
likewise got it. On the face of it, it looks to be an inconse­
quential paradox. It is like saying that a farmer can have
a bale of hay without someone first having grown the grass.
But thinking of the bale of hay as the grass, and the grass
itself as having been seed, blade, and bale, all within itself
before it ever germinated, may help to simplify the problem.
98
The logical human being, of course, comes back again and
again to the demand: "But who thought the first thought
to start with, and who conceived the first concept, so that
even Thought in the abstract could know that it was pos­
sessed of power to function?” We get our answer after a
fashion in switching from the bale of hay illustration to the
water illustration. Water is water. But in manifestation it
may be an ocean or a raindrop. It may present itself as
either ice or steam. But ocean or raindrop, ice or steam,
the mere fact of Water existed before any of them. In the
human propounding of the enigma, the raindrop tries to
deny the fact of the ocean, or the wisp of steam wants to
know what it can possibly have in common with the chunk
of ice lying in the street. Still behind both, or all of them,
is the primal essence of the water which gives all of them
any sort of perceptible existence.
Nobody thought the first thought that ever existed. The
first consciously incarnated spirit tapped the great reservoir
of Thought and used some of its essence in the process of
arriving at a knowledge of itself; and the great reservoir of
Thought was the mental storehouse of infinite possibilities
for combining concepts when Spirit should have equipped
itself to draw upon it for performances and measurements
in evolution. It was Consciousness in the raw state, so to
speak, Energy as yet unharnessed and therefore unidentified.
Spirit said: "I want a way to know myself.” But Spirit
when it made that statement was not a fragmentary or
idealized "man” speaking. Man was what resulted after
millions of ages, when Spirit had enhoused itself in forms
to get objective reactions from Energy.
99
That we, when we "think,” are merely exercising our essen­
tial nature and getting a result within ourselves that is truly
the stuff of which we are cosmically composed, is some­
thing that the entrapped, objectively educated mind has
difficulty in grasping. But it does explain the great First
Cause of all manifesting phenomena by saying that there
never really was a First Cause: the universe is not what ob­
jectively observing man assumes that it is; what we have de­
manded to take for a First Cause was not a Cause at all but
a sort of perpetual "apparency” of Self in its vital ingredi­
ents: Knowledge and Power to Perform, getting expectancy
and satiation.
It takes a big brain—to use a colloquialism— for the grasp­
ing of this gigantic truth, but whosoever grasps it, has the
key in his clutch that unlocks the door of all sacrosanct
mystery. Spirit is, in its primordial function, the will to Ac­
quisition of All Knowledge of That Which is Within its
Greater Self.
Given that equation successfully worked out, and Life the
Mystery is a mystery no longer. The ocean, and the rain­
drop, and the wisp of steam, and the chunk of street ice,
all suddenly discover their primal origin in W ater. Who
created the water is not germane to the illustration.
T H O U G H T is, and was, and ever must be. It is the
primal norm of the universe in raw, the Cosmos not yet
defined in terms of density and shape. Existence is the bring­
ing up of the thought-concept in embryo to the maturity of
self-conscious will, acting in the instance of the functioning
individual. And when we have said that, we have pretty
100
much said the decalogue. There is no thought outside of
Thought itself, which proves that all thought is within
Thought. So thinking must be merely Thought appropri­
ated by the spirit for use in its functioning as spirit, but in
some aspect of the material concept. Y et the very spirit
that thinks is actually Thought itself taking the human
shape in order to perpetuate itself in terms of objectivity. If
you imagine all this is a mere play on words, you are gal­
loping through it too fast. You can profitably spend a whole
lifetime of objective thinking, coming to the realization that
what we commonly term Thought is the universe at the busi­
ness of merely being itself. It is a cosmic condition outside
of, and behind, all substantial conditions. It is making a
broomstick out of a rainbow one minute, and the next show­
ing that broomstick and rainbow are but illusions of imma­
ture mentality in their common origin. Think that one over!
N o, you cannot gallop through these massive enigmas and
grab off the solutions in an evening. And when we come
to such a gigantic concept as all the materials which in as­
sociation go into the composition of the planet Earth, we
have a double freight for our mentalities to transport. How
does self-operating Thought arrive at the condition known
as materiality? Whether evidenced in a dust-mote or a ton
of pig iron— or even the great star Betelgeuse—what process
is at work within Spirit itself to get formal substance in ap­
preciable quantities recognizable by the senses? That brings
us to this mentor script on Vibration. W hat is Vibration and
how is it involved in the manufacture of materials?
101
V IBRA TIO N
Q E A R L Y Beloved Brethren in Mortality: We have taught
you from our love, that which is the power of Spirit
manifest through Thought to bring into being the substance
known as Matter. We teach you of Matter, that knowing
its substance you likewise may manifest through Thought
that which is your heritage.
We have told you that Light precedes that which is Matter,
giving it plan and perfecting its purpose. We tell you now
of the makings of Light, striving to build out of Ether at
the impulse of Thought, that which has appearance to your
physical senses.
This brings us to Vibration.
'^ / H E N you say a thing "vibrates” you generally mean
that there is a swinging movement of a velocity high
enough to produce a strange condition on the drums of your
ears. Sound Vibration, such as the resonant piano chord,
is practically the only form of Vibration which the average
person knows.
He hears about other forms of Vibration, of course, such
as that of a wave-length in radio and the various forms of
radioactivity in minerals. He is told that Light, as well as
Sound, is conveyed by Vibration and he seeks to fathom
this and understand it largely in the terms of the vibrating
piano chord idea.
102
In other words, Vibration to him represents something start­
ing out from a point, moving to another point, and coming
back to its starting-point at a speed so fast that the retina
of the eye receives a blurred image of the movement but
does not distinguish the direction which the object is taking
in any given instance.
It does not dawn on the average person that Vibration thus
understood is thus purely a matter of his own perceptions.
If he had a mental assembly which made him perceive the
different directions that the piano chord was taking— that
is to say, if he could distinguish them in terms of slowness—
it would not occur to him that they were vibrating at all.
Suppose, for instance, that his sense of perception and evalu­
ation of time was so delicate, like that of some of the in­
sects, that he conceived of a bass piano wire struck under ten­
sion as swinging ten thousand miles into space, when to our
sense of perception it merely swung an eighth of an inch.
Not only would he miss the musical resonance resulting, but
he would not see the pattern which the chord was making
by swinging outward in an opposite way. He might see the
piano wire as a phenomenon in Nature, something behaving
strangely, apparently without motivation, and describing a
circular line which might even be Beauty to him in his limited
awareness of what was taking place.
He might see Beauty in this phenomenon, we say, to the
point where the outward-swinging piano-wire became Beauty
to him in the abstract. He would be totally missing the fact
that the wire in swinging backward and forward was doing
something to the "atmosphere,” so-called, which dislodged
particles of ether, multiplied this dislodgment in a long series
103
of waves in every conceivable direction until by the pattern
of their disarrangement—or wave-length, as you say—they
fell on human ears as a full-throated note of music.
Now something very similar to the status of this gnat-man
is taking place in the universe all about you when you look
out into the starry heavens and say, "That is Beauty in the
abstract.” You do not realize that something is taking place
that you cannot accurately interpret, because you, like the
gnat-man viewing the colossal swinging of the bass piano
chord, lack the senses to translate the significance of the pat­
tern of the happening into terms of application to the prin­
ciple involved— which may be as far removed from what you
think it is as the sun is removed from the light of a flash-
lamp in the hands of a child. Now let us go back for a mo­
ment and consider what Vibration can be in terms of this
metaphor applied to the God-condition.
God is "unknowable,” you say, because He is more or less
intangible to material senses. That is, you cannot discern
His form, or shape, or substance. To your limited way of
thinking He is just a Something that has power to manifest,
in a transcendent vehicle, what you think you cannot hope
to understand. But those who hold this view are wrong.
You can hope to understand Him, when you accept Him in
terms of what the universe is doing, instead of what it means
to you in a trillion image-pictures.
Look at it in this way: About you on every hand are differ­
ent grades of substance called Materials— iron, wood, brass,
velvet. They are manifestly different from one another.
They have properties applicable to different uses. You do
not make battleships out of velvet or underclothes from
104
brass. Each thing seems to have been utilized according to
its particular attributes of hardness or softness, resiliency, or
strength to withstand tension. These properties in the study
of Nature you call "natural” because they are inherent
properties. You accept them as having "happened.” That
is, you found them in existence each time you came into a
new life cycle.
Now all this leads where? To the fact that there are certain
properties in Nature making for hardness or softness, elas­
ticity or toughness. But it does not occur to you to ask—or
only rarely, and then to the scientist or philosopher—why
there should be these different grades of fibre or temper.
Did you ever stop to ask yourself truly just why there were
different substances in the universe, or have you ever tried
to conceive what the universe would be like if made of one
universal substance, say for instance, Iron? Suppose every­
thing in nature, including Man, and everything in man’s
social sphere and assembly, were composed of Iron. What
would happen? O f course you would say that no such thing
could be possible or life would not be what it is at all.
There could be no such thing as iron flesh on a person’s
body, because flesh to give grace and facility of movement
to the human being as a self-motivated, free moral agent
must be pliant. And Iron cannot become pliant without
losing the very attributes that make it the basis of the steel
that upholds a bridge or a skyscraper. If the universe were
all made of iron, too, how would Iron know itself for that
which it is?
One universal substance without grades or properties to
function in different employments according to the character
105
of those employments, would result in lost identity. It would
result in more. It would result in a universe of only one
dimension, so to speak, not in this sense of Space but in the
sense of Function, having only one property which it could
manifest.
Now you know that the universe is made up of a million
properties of hardness and softness, resiliency and toughness,
elasticity and tension, each in its own thousand grades of
qualities. It is, of course, trite to say that they all appear
to be different of substance. You cannot possibly conceive
that the steel in a car wheel has anything in common with
the fleece on the back of a gamboling lamb. All things seem
to have their places and functions, you say, in the peculiar
order making up the universe, and you go your ways merrily
accepting them graciously or ungraciously according to your
temperaments, but generally considering that life is self-
creating in all of these different materials and attributes.
But the scientist and philosopher are not at all satisfied to
merely look at an object and say: "It is made of wood; it
is made of stone; it is made of jhair.” They want to know
why there is a difference between these materials, why they
have shown any difference in the first place from one an­
other, and what is back of their natural performance. They
do not care that there is a difference so long as it is practical,
that is, somehow usable for human comfort or consideration.
But they are vitally interested in getting at the secret of the
universe through the dissolution of substances, or the render­
ing of all substances into some common mean of interpreta­
tion or Basic Substance from which they can decide how the
universe is built up.
106
The world, as the average mortal sees it, is a sort of self-
deception. Things are not what they seem. The senses do
not fabricate so much as misinterpret. Man gets used to
calling a spade a spade— so used to it that he no longer
wonders why the wooden handle differs eternally from the
iron scoop. In fact, he is too much interested in gaining a
livelihood from the spade, or by means of it, thrusting it
into the ground, overturning the sod, and making the garden
which gives him food. But behind this self-deception there
is a principle of no mean proportion and we want to register
it here because this is true—
The man in the street is a manifestation of Vibration him­
self, in a myriad formation of etheric urges, and until he
has developed the spiritual side of his nature to become
aware of the differences in things—in the sense of the spir­
itual’s being different from the materialistic—he is always
going to be bothered by the painful trait of seeing only a
one-dimensional universe as we have hereinbefore outlined.
Let it pass for the moment. The point we are about to
launch upon is this: The scientist and the philosopher ask
why there are difference and grade in the essences of the
various forms of "natural” products and materials. They
want this information for different purposes, however. The
philosopher is interested in arriving at a determination of
the Life Principle. He imagines that if he arrives at that,
he will be able to alter or enhance the spiritual trends and
perhaps evolve a new race— which according to his standards
must be an improvement on the present one. That is the
so-called Spiritual Declension of the universe as men find
it On the other hand, the scientist is only remotely interested
107
in spiritual declensions. The scientist is a great investigator
into the formal causes and perceptions only as they apply
to the physical properties of Matter, inanimate and insen­
sate. If he can find that out of the inanimate and insensate
comes conscious self-awareness, well and good. H e is only
too eager to discover it. But his prime motive for explora­
tion at all is to find out the basis for the universe, from
substance in Matter.
Now the individual scientist may be a philosopher but never
because of his Science. The philosopher must necessarily
deal with the Spiritual Intangibles, whereas the scientist de­
mands that the universe shall react upon his physical senses
utterly or he will not give phenomena credence. "Give me
physical perception,” he says, "and I will prove to you that
such-and-such is so.” "Give me sufficient spiritual aware­
ness,” says the philosopher, "and I will prove to you that
even the sensate proofs of the scientist are false.” These
two are ever at war with each other without being aware
that both of them in their own fields are behaving decorously
and correctly. If there is any conflict between them, it is
this: that both fail to discern that they are exploring differ­
ent aspects of the Divine Idea without being aware of it, and
because they cannot speak each other’s language, or know
what the other is trying to arrive at, each calls the other
fallacious and stupid. This brings us to the point again
where the difference between Spiritual Awareness and ma­
terialistic happenings as two parts of a divine whole must
be emphasized anew. So we come to this proposition:
The scientist is trying to do in his field exactly what the
philosopher is attempting in his, and the philosopher is grad-
108
ing humanity and the moral attitudes and essentials in terms
outside of, and above materiality—therefore he looks down
on the scientist without realizing that both are fellow schol­
ars, in different phases of universal miracles. But there is a
common meeting ground on which they can understand each
other if they choose.
That is in the study of exhibited Vibration, or Vibration as
you meet it in all forms of display that register on your
physical or mental senses. For if both scientist and philoso­
pher go far enough, ultimately they will become aware of
this colossal recognition: The universe which the scientist
sees is the vibratory response to the universe which the phi­
losopher inhabits in his intangible abstractions.
Putting it in another way for your better understanding:
The scientist thinks he sees Matter, but the philosopher pre­
determines what sight is to begin with, and both of them
are gauging the divine attribute that can best be offered
under the heading of Vibration. Now what is Vibration?
Most scholars use the term to define those properties in na­
ture that show some sort of movement in order to get expres­
sion. O f course in a sense, minutely defined by microscope
or chronometer, everything in the natural universe is moving.
Without movement there is no existence. When a thing
moves, it lives, until in popular parlance you come to talk
of a live automobile, or a dead gunshell. Movement and
life are synonymous, and in such popular acceptance you
are nearer the truth than you realize. But the matter goes
deeper than the outward exhibit of an object’s or quality’s
changing position and arriving somewhere else.
Vibration is that attribute of cosmic law whereby Divinity
109
translates or transmutes abstract consciousness into Sub­
stance and Form by acting in a peculiar and specific manner
within universal energy, radiantly, and getting a form-tone
that men recognize as the Substance-Idea in whatever way
it manifests! We know this is deep for you, but we are
revealing something to you that is absolutely necessary for
you to know and understand in mentally demonstrating
ideas into concrete substances.
Vibration is God’s Consciousness finding employment in
manufacturing materials out of contraptions of etheric move­
ments. It is the peculiar quality or ability which God has of
translating Himself through self-motivated energy into
forms perceptible to human recognition. It is the ability
and capacity which universal energy possesses for so actu­
alizing itself that the human soul can receive and know what
idea is being crystallized, interpreted, and generally being
arrived at on a conscious plane of three dimensions.
Vibration is the great series of conversations in circumstances
whereby God talks to the individual in terms of realizable
substances that by their properties have reactive effect upon
his senses and create a condition within the individual where
he receives the God-Idea without the necessity for scholastic
interpretation.
These are philosophical definitions, however. What do you
find in actual circumstances? What but that God is not
provable by adage and epigram? So men look at Nature in
her various aspects and say: "There seems to be a great
dynamic Force that propels everything, or rather impels it
toward accomplishment of some kind. It is not a tangible
Force, therefore we cannot tell where it comes from. We
110
simply know that it is, and that it manifests. For want of a
better name let us call it Energy. Let us break it down, in
so far as we may, observe its properties and make note of
its peculiarities. By this process we may perchance some day
learn where it originates.” And so the scientist proceeds into
the eminent domain of materialistic Vibration and wanders
hopelessly and well nigh futilely, as one who finds himself
in a great forest unable to tell where the gale comes from
that lashes the trees.
Now taking up Vibration in its various modifications which
result in substances of various kinds, what do we find? In
the first place, Vibration is not Sound although it sometimes
results in sound. It is not Sight although by vibration of
a peculiar motif you get sight when it falls upon the proper
visualizing apparatus within your bodies. It is not always
movement, either, although it has every aspect of movement
—as in the so-called electric current. It has no property
that cannot be analyzed to a degree on the physicist’s work­
table, and yet it is so far above human interpretation in its
true qualities and adaptations that men may found a hun­
dred thousand universities and endow them with billions of
dollars without ever discovering its true nature or the correct
evaluation of its fecundities until they have admitted the
philosopher’s analysis: that the intangible properties of N a­
ture are the only true properties, and that the materialistic
or physical aspects are merely the realization in substance
of the God-concept’s seeking to express itself in three-dimen­
sional form, intelligible to every grade of consciousness from
the lowest to the highest.
Looked at from this hypothesis, Vibration is an awesome
111
thing, since what you are seeing is discarnate universal con­
sciousness—which is your usual idea of God—exhibiting a
self-motivated energy and gettingj a result that has mass and
weight which will react on every form of consciousness with
equalized and standardized effect!
112'
Chapter IV
T H E EN IG M A OF L IG H T
T IS no mean achievement to wean oneself
away from the hide-bound ideas—not to
mention the physical reflexes— which one has
entertained over a lifetime of experience
with Matter and Materials, and come to
think of all Substance as being the product that results when
dormant Divine Energy starts whipping ideas into apprecia­
ble form by etheric Thought Vibration. It is our bodies, of
course, as the vehicles in which our Consciousness tempo­
rarily resides, that are responsible for most of our difficul­
ties in grasping the truth with ease. Thinking that it is our
bodies themselves that are alive, instead of thinking of our
aliveness as residing in our bodies, we compare the materials
composing them with the materials composing the myriad
articles in an objective world, and we say: "You can’t tell
me that we don’t live in a universe of solids. I slip in the
bathtub and crack a rib. I skid my motorcar on the wet
pavement and bang it into another car, with a pretty bill for
damages to both. Or I go to war, dodge shells and bombs,
or fail to dodge them, and my progeny is left to pay the cost
of the debris to the seventh generation. If I’m living the
113
processes in some Divine Dream, it’s plenty realistic in the
item of its collisions. Only God doesn’t seem to be feeling
my soreness as result of them. So, hooray for what?”
For all practical purposes, your remonstrance is legitimate.
Yet what is the essence of these woes and complications but
reactions in the mental? Perhaps I should add as well, reac­
tion to the mental. Always and forever, each second of your
existence, you are truly estimating your adventures in this
universe of materials in results that are spiritual. It is the
condition of your aliveness that is being perpetually affected.
The materials creating the conditions are factors unto them­
selves. The body that slips and cracks the rib against the
bathtub is not the real You, any more than the bathtub
which it strikes is You just because you paid the plumber
or contractor for it when you built your bungalow. But
unless some God-Thought wrought the idea of physical body
and cast-iron tub, each with materialistic identity unto itself,
you wouldn’t know what the experience of falling in bath­
tubs could possibly be like. You couldn’t even get the same
effect from falling into dream bathtubs, unless you first had
known the reality-design of bathtubs in the physical world.
The physical pattern in each instance had to be consummated
first, and the materials, or substances, of your body’s flesh
and the tub’s cast-iron— or whatever your particular tub hap­
pens to be made of— had to be of "contactable consistency”
if you’ll allow me the term, that the effect might be men­
tally graspable in the octave in which fleshly bodies and bath­
tubs are of note. On the other hand, in order that you
might receive and retain mentally such a thing as contactable
consistency without physical harm’s resulting, and be able
114
to grasp what physical harm was by converse mental experi­
ence, the Divine Dreamer also dreamed such a substance as
steam. You discover after your aliveness has been housed
in your body for a time, that you— or it— can dash through
a cloud of any sort of vapor and emerge unscathed. Of
course, the steam as a creation in the Divine Dream was
projected for quite a few other uses than informing you that
it was possible to crash it without damage. But you get the
main thought. So, even while ensconced in this substantial
octave, your occupying aliveness receives as many experiences
as there appear materials to be contacted. Nevertheless, your
aliveness is only an experiencing, and therefore a receiving,
entity— at least objectively— although and whereas the in­
stant you utilize them in your own right, they at once be­
come mental and subjective, as factors in your dream. Hav­
ing first received the experiencings from the master-dreaming
of God, so to speak, in the materialistic body in a material­
istic world, you can thereafter put them to use in providing
yourself with a first-class nightmare or any other reflex that
subsequently causes you to make certain of your footing
when entering into bathtubs. What has all of it to do with
the fact that so long as your body gives you experience-
reactions in the substance-octave which you occupy, the pur­
pose for which your Consciousness entered upon that octave
has been served? You can say the world is very real indeed,
very solid indeed, if you wish to estimate solid reactions to
it and persist in the delusion that your body is You. But
your mind in sleep tonight may live through the distress of
a dreamed motor-crash and that too will be equally as real.
What I’m trying to expound for you is that the reality of
115
things is only as actual as your mind perceives it, according
to the vehicle by which the perceiving is done. Yonder door
is "solid” and "substantial” strictly because your body of
the same contactable consistency can’t stride through it when
it is shut—not even if its chief material be glass. Yonder
door is not solid and substantial, though made of glass, if it
be your glance that travels through it—to determine whether
a rich aunt, or a bill collector, has just pushed the bell; your
intelligence may reside in the glance that determines whether
it be aunt or bill collector, because your mind decides the
identity without your body’s moving from your chair.
^ H E N the scientist or physicist "breaks down Matter,”
therefore, and announces from his laboratory that
uranium has 92 positive protohs as the core of its atom,
with 92 negative electrons, aijd that thereby uranium is
uranium, or that hydrogen has but one positive proton and
one negative electron, therefore hydrogen is hydrogen, and
seems to talk still more abstrusely when he adds that both
are mere concoctions from electrical energy in the etheric
essence, he is, of course, treating with the subject from the
psychological viewpoint of his microscopes and galvanom­
eters. This viewpoint is quite as legitimate, and the result
as realistic and truthful, as your viewpoint of a physical body
occupied by your aliveness would be realistic and truthful
in declaring that you couldn’t chew a mouthful of uranium
or make a pocket knife out of hydrogen gas. The physicist,
however, would be dealing in the creative causes whereby
such substances are in existence^ while you would be dealing
in appropriate or inappropriate uses to which they might be
116
put so that through the medium of your contacting body
your aliveness would gain some experience from them.
Now inasmuch as we are affecting to concern ourselves here
with the Origins of Things and not with mundane utilities
from body’s viewpoint, it befalls us that we tend more to
the physicist’s conclusions than to those of the flesh-
enwrapped individual, seeking to get his body through dif­
ferent doors of the world whether made of glass or no, or in
and out of bathtubs, whether slippery as to bottom or pro­
tected by rubber mats. Science and metaphysics both say
that materials are cohesions of etheric urging, whipped
somehow into pattern by Intelligence through a process of
vibrations. These vibrations are not exactly the motion-field
described by the taut piano wire or harpstring when twanged
by some disturbant, so much as the waves of various "fre­
quency” that pass out from the radio broadcasting station,
or the rays that project through interstellar space and have
such profound effects on Matter as to be designated as Elec­
trical Disturbances or radioactive rays. In fact, we might
even put it in an amateurish way for the layman that the
whole phenomenon of creation, in whatever aspect it takes—
from an Irishman’s wheelbarrow to the radio beam guiding
an airplane through the night—is made up strictly of varying
degrees of Electrical Disturbance. The Cosmic Mentor has
an apter and more startling way for describing what hap­
pens from the etheric urge, whether set into action slowly
or at such fantastic rates as several billion impulses per sec­
ond. He enwraps the whole creative field in one term: Light!
117
T H E ROLE OF LIG H T IN CREA TIO N
Q E A R L Y Beloved Brethren in Mortality: We are those
who teach you that which holds wisdom. We come to
you addressing you, making your pathway straight through
error and through tumult. There are those among you who
seek a goodly and profitable application for that which we
reveal. We say, such wisdom comes from you.
Men in your generation are being given an election, which
they shall follow, the Christ or the Adversary. The hounds
of law and order shall presently slip their leashes, the dogs
of penury and impoverishment shall bay loudly in the nation.
Behind and beneath it all, a great gesture flourishes—
Shall society be led by the Christ, or shall it be led by the
Dark One?
Each man takes his choice. He aligns himself with that
which is his nature.
We have heard many of you say that you are confused by
your quandaries of spirit. You know not the truth of any
teaching. You go forth to your labors day after day, see
men about you pursuing their activities, you hear statesmen
rant and nations squabble. Demands are made upon you
to give of your earnings to those without employment. H u­
man life has the aspect of going on as it has always gone
on within your bounds of knowledge except that under­
neath its surface a mad unrest grows which you cannot deci­
pher. Continuously is there want in an atmosphere of plenty.
118
You cannot fathom these things. You only know that from
day unto day strange rumors persist of changes in prospect,
of half-hearted palliatives for curing the nations of the ills
that beset them. You as individual units of society feel that
you can do nothing of yourselves. You wait either a calming
of the economic waters, or you hide in panic from greater
woes predicted.
We come unto you this hour, making clearer your missions,
each unto the other, and unto your own spirits.
We have said in the beginning that you cannot discover the
trend of the Practical unless you are wise in the Plan of
the Spiritual. You cannot understand what comes to man
on the plane of the mortal unless you accredit the weaving of
a splendorful tapestry at the hands of that Valiant One who
shapes and guides your destinies.
Mark this well: Either life is going forward toward a defi­
nite achievement or the activities of men are but ravings in
chaos!
You have a sure proof, however, that life is moving forward,
that the world is not chaos. That proof lies in a studying
of the Past in retrospect.
Looking back over the centuries that have gone, who can
deny the upward trend of spiritual culture? Which among
you, wise in earthly knowledge, can affirm with truth that
up to the present there has come no improvement in life as
men have lived it?
If it is true that men have come into life as unlettered brutes
and finished with natures approaching the angelic, is it not
evident that a Plan is working out that does not concern the
lone individual except as a unit? What man among you by
119
taking thought can prescribe accurately and profitably for
his species over a thousand generations? Yet man has
mounted upward, over a thousand generations. He has fol­
lowed a trend that has made the earth habitable, that has
brought him peace and culture, that has conquered his ap­
petites and prospered his spirit. H e stands today at the apex
of his cycle, exploring new worlds and perceiving his god-
hood.
H as it been a happy accident?
If, therefore, you can cast back in restrospect and observe
that a plan has brought man to the present, how can you
argue that the present has no Star to guide it, that man lives
promiscuously and luckily by his wits, that the future is a
blank, that uncertainty enshrouds the intellect that from
this time forward there is to bej any more progress?
And does it not allow still further in logic that if a Plan
has gone forward for a thousand generations for the im­
provements of man’s species, and if a thousand generations
have followed that Plan increasingly unmindful of single
individuals, there must be a stupendous Intelligence carrying
that Plan forward, greater than any individual or group of
individuals in a given life cycle ever could do it?
If a study of the past is any augury for the future, men
have the evidence of their senses that they do not dwell in
chaos, but under the direction of some All-Providing Shep­
herd who is guiding this colossal human flock toward some
supernal Fold.
It behooves you, then, to take note of the future in terms
of the past, and to look to the future in terms of the Present.
120
" ^ ^ E H A V E told you in previous lessons that men came
to earth as Visiting Spirits, at the behest of Thought
Incarnate, to learn certain profits from mortal confinement.
We have told you also that there sit among you great mas­
ters and teachers who also have come to earth— as they come
to earth in every generation—as captains and counsellors.
We have told you that all of you have dormant within you
certain powers and attributes that remain to be exercised,
that would lift you completely from your plights of the
present and give you rulership over all that thwarts you. To
awaken these powers and help you to cultivate those attri­
butes, we come unto you serving you. We say that chief
among the talents you possess but neglect, is the miracle
of Thought, and what Thought performs. Harken to our
counsel that you may be wise.
You are accustomed to think of Thought as the product of
your Mind. And yet we tell you that Thought is twofold.
It consists in taking out of the Great Reservoir of Universal
Intellect that which serves your purpose of the moment—
thus giving you Logic. But its greater power is in precipi­
tating into the Finite World certain forms and gestures that
assume material reality when properly directed. As you say,
you "materialize” that which you desire, but how the process
works you cannot explain.
We tell you that men have precipitated Thought Forms for
a thousand generations without knowing of the miracle that
they treat with in Light. So we speak to you of Light as a
process in Thought.
Know you that it is necessary in a study of this order, or
any survey of the construction of the universe, to bear in
121
mind one fact: that Light as men understand it is something
quite different from the luminosity discernible by the eyeball
of the visioning mechanism.
Light is twofold in character and quality. It is incandescent
at a certain rate of vibration. It is as opaque and hard as
steel at other tones and wave-lengths. You think that be­
cause you see Light exhibiting as a sunbeam, it is fluffy, in­
tangible stuff, filled with the motes that make it perceptible
in terms of your sight.
But Light in its essential character is that organism through
which Thought moves and works and has its being!
This thing called Light is a great mystery to the mortal in­
dividual, and yet it contains within itself the secret of the
finite universe: the Light of Finite Matter.
j^ O W LIG H T, strictly speaking, is not Matter. But
Matter is a form of Light if you want to reduce both
to some practical common denominator which can best be
described as Ether. Light in its strictest classification may
be called the fusion of all the various factors in so-called
Matter, coming down into a plane where they are perceiv­
able in terms of Form. Suppose that we put it in this way—
In the Cosmos there is a force that might be called the Start
of Light, not that Light needs to be started of itself as Light
but that it permeates all things from what might be called
an Origin-Point, which for want of a better term we will
call the Mind of Holy Spirit. So we get this axiom—
T H E F U N C T IO N OF L IG H T PRIM ARILY IS TO
T R A N SM IT T H O U G H T IN TERM S OF
CO N CRETIO N S!
122
Matter, as such, does not need composition half so much
as composition demands energy of a sort in order to manifest
to Spirit-Intelligence. When we approach Light therefore
as a factor in the universe, we should look upon it as being
a positive attribute of Divine Mind exhibiting through and
in Form, to give essential value to substance made from
energy through Thought-Galvanism.
Does that sound abstruse?
Light, if you please, is not a passive exhibition, coincidental
with Matter created out of energy. It is a positive ingredient
of Matter created out of energy doing what might be called
"expounding that energy.” . . . Thus Light takes on the
character of Interpreter of the Energy which expresses itself
in form. Thus Light has as many interpretations as there
are forms of energy which you call Matter.
If this seems hard for you to grasp, we tell you that you
must master these fundamentals if you would know how
to materialize by Thought.
When Light first came to the world— meaning your three-
dimensional world— it did not come as a flood of glory per­
ceptible to the eyes of living creatures. There were no living
creatures with physical eye organs to perceive it. Therefore
it could not exist as incandescence because incandescence is
perception of Light of a quality and naught else. No, Light
came in the form of a Force that had potency for interpene­
trating the molecules of all cosmic matter and making them
cling together to give certain results. Matter, we will say,
is only so many geometrical patterns in this cosmic stuff,
each pattern being different from the rest and therefore giv­
ing you materials.
123
But along with such exhibit of galvanism went a certain
"spirit-product” that served to illuminate figuratively and
literally the Divine Idea and supply Form with reasoning
power in its own right to perfect itself in each instance and
resume again and again the etheric pattern that represented
a given quality of cosmically manufactured goods.
This activity, if you care to call it such, was Light. We are
trying to make clear to you here something of the nature
of Light in its primal essence and it is hard because you do
not know Light as anything other than Incandescence. But
Light in its fundamental character is the Pattern-Maker of
Form for the universe. . . .
It is the Road-breaker for that which is perceptible.
D° Y O U grasp the significance of this when employing
Thought to give materialization. A tree, we tell you,
takes form of Light in ether, or the etheric world, before
it takes pattern in reality. The Light-Form is there and the
pattern-molecules respond to it, creating the tree out of ele­
mental substances because there is a Light Pattern for ele­
mental substance to go by, building up the Matter in the
completed tree.
Thought Forms, after a fashion, take the same process for
manifestations.
You think an idea into Thought-form. The thought attains
the constituency of Light in its respective dimension, and
the whole begins to build up by attracting molecular parti­
cles of ether that give substance of materialization!
W hat have you done? You have built from Cause to Effect.
You have taken the secrets of the universe which we release
124
to you here, that your science will someday prove in labora­
tory physics. But do not be deceived or misled here in your
thinking.
You cannot have Light manifesting of itself without
Thought behind it. But by a process of Thought deploying
upon Ether in a certain vibratory pattern—which might be
termed a commission of Thought projection—you get first
of all a Light-Pattern, or an Object of Light, that soon at­
tracts etheric particles to build up what is the essential con­
summation: a manifestation of some sort that is perceptible
to others.
Divine Mind worked this way— that is, after this pattern—
in constructing the Finite universe. Mortal mind works the
same way, although it does not always know it, creating
"Light objects” which when persistently supplied with power
from concrete sources, create Light-Patterns. These soon
fill up with etheric pressures. And when you have said this,
you have said a secret responsible for half the phenomena
in the universe!
These Light-Patterns are not perceptible, of course, to mortal
eye that knows Light only as a form of incandescence. Yet
Thought-Idea projected it as Light-Idea, and left Light-
Idea to work the lodestone of its potency on etheric sub­
stance until you have created forms perceptible to one an­
other for the patterns they make in Finiteness!
Considering Light as a projection of Thought, you have
this marvel:
A quantity of Light "coalesces in ether” whenever you have
a strong mental projection of a consistent idea capable of
manifesting in etheric impedimenta—so to speak.
125
That is to say, a given quantity of Light will make itself
known around an idea, and assume the visual pattern of
that idea if the Thought-Force behind it is sufficiently strong
to drive that invisible luminosity into a type or pattern of
form.
Light clusters in some form or other about any Idea-Pro­
jection so tremendously that it can be made to set up a sort
of heat in the universe— not heat in the sense of warmth
you can feel, but nevertheless an infinitesimally fine degree
of temperature that has an effect on etheric particles and
makes them coalesce toward that heat, even as the wasps in
an attic are drawn toward the sunlight streaming through
its dusty windows.
Light thus displayed attracts etheric particles as a vacuum
attracts air, and if they are attracted in sufficient quantities
and speeds, you may get incandescence in ether, perceptible
to mortal sight. This is rare, however, where mortal mental­
ity has to do the projecting. The focusing power is often
too weak. But harken to this further—
N o one can manifest Light in this regard who has not first
trained himself to concentrate thought on a given project
so strongly that he generates Heat, in a manner of speaking,
and causes etheric particles to glow with luminosity. But
this Thought-Projection is not "fancying” consistently over
a period of time. It is utilizing a force that lies deep within
the human mind and is, for present purposes, of the physical
organization!
This force is peculiar, for it does not become energy until
motivated into an externalized idea. What you call "thought”
is sitting pensively and letting your mind take in or give
126
out etheric currents that might be called Ideas, or associa­
tions of Ideas.
True Thought is not of this, but galvanizing a force that
goes out of itself into ether in terms of some sort of creation!
J T IS pertinent to this instruction that you know these fun­
damental facts before you begin to practice any form of
Thought-Materialization for your earthly prosperity. The
powers of Thought on this planet of yours are so tremendous
that he who masters the fundamentals of Thought-Projec­
tion leaps at a bound out of his mortal limitation and into
the Infinite.
Once man on this planet knew the facts and practiced them
wrongly. He brought on himself vast catastrophes, for that
is ever the result when powers of Holy Spirit are used sel­
fishly or subversively.
The time is at hand, however, to graduate a few of you into
the profounder realms of cosmic physics, that you may be­
come literal saviors of your species in flesh. But only as you
recognize whence your power comes, or is revealed to you,
will you make yourselves felt as performers in substance.
We tell you the time is at hand when many of you must
study and practice individually and collectively these tenets
of divine understanding which may now seem so abstruse.
You have, within each of you, tremendous powers of
Thought Pressure, which you can release into the universe at
will, building up Light Forms that act as lodestones to gather
etheric particles around them and give you materials "not
made with hands” . . .
We tell you that He who once walked the shores of Galilee
127
doing miracles had such powers to a supernal degree. And
did H e not say, "Greater things than I do shall ye do” ?
W hat did H e mean, if not that those capable of handling
these great secrets were to Be enlightened in these higher
laws and processes and given potency over the wiles of trying
circumstance?
We tell you that he who has the will to study and perform,
can so concentrate on the problem of what he wants ren­
dered that he can create a temperature in Ether and form a
Light Pattern that can be seen by us on This Side— that to
certain forms of sentient consciousness can seem as tangible
as granite. By continuing to apply the force of his Mind,
he can suffuse that Light Pattern with irresistible magnetism.
Stouter and harder he can build it, until finally materials
appear to his senses.
In your intervals Over Here between your earthly visitations,
you perform this operation to consistent degree. All that
you have or are, you create by this method in a finer dimen­
sion. The process is harder in a three dimensional world,
for the force required is much more terrific. But hundreds
of thousands of persons have done it. And each time the
performance is easier until that moment arrives when you
do it without effort—at least without strain.
Dwell on our words and ponder them zealously. Presently
we come to you teaching you further of this vast Power of
Thought. We tell you that only as Intellect applies itself to
Spirit do wonders accrue, for the Spirit gives energy to ef­
fect the concrete. Without it the Intellect is an empty form
indeed—the shell of a mechanism that runs not, without
power. . . .
128
T° BRIN G these rare Esoteric Tenets down into the
realm of the practical, let us illustrate it for you in this
manner: Let us say you want to do a certain thing having
a bearing on your welfare, or your personal enhancement in
the turbulent times now upon you. You consider ways and
means to attain your objective. This is the pensiveness, or
Idea-Association that precedes true Thought and gives it
external pattern.
The real Thought process begins when you have determined
what it is you want to do, and what the means are of accom­
plishing it in the social or material world.
You "concentrate,” you say, on the given objective. But
application is not the only thing necessary to obtain an ob­
jective in materialization. There are other things besides
physical or mental application that bring about the ultimate
good in substance or event.
The chief of these is the capacity or ability of a dynamic
force within yourself to so build a picture of what you wish
to have occur that it begins to take form in substance in
terms at first of very faint Light!
Strictly speaking, no one knows what Light is, except that
it may be termed the exquisite evaluation by Holy Spirit of
the thing under projection, giving it approval, as it were,
that demonstration in materialization might follow. Light in
this sense is a peculiar condition of etheric particles that
bridges the gap between conscious thinking of abstract ideas
and concrete realization of them in substance.
For instance, suppose that you had an idea that a table was
necessary for certain literary labors that you wished to per­
form. You first conceived what style and size of table would
129
J
best answer your purposes. Then you surveyed your avail­
able lumber and the tools at your command. You estimated
the time you had available and the "area of operation” ade­
quate for the performance of an energy that would ultimate­
ly bring your table into existence. These factors being deter­
mined upon, you set to work and sawed and hammered and
labored consistently until presently you were putting your
typing machine upon such a table in your writing studio.
What had you done? The labor did not make the table, nei­
ther did the boards or the tools, considered of themselves.
All these were static valuations of substance until you had
brought them together in consistent pursuance of the reali­
zation of your idea. You labored four or five hours making
the table come true in fact, and it did come true in fact after
much planning and perspiring and expenditure of muscular
energy.
But behind the whole performance there was, in your mind,
a visual Idea-Picture of the table you wished to have ulti­
mately in your studio— a mental blueprint, so to speak, of
exactly what you desired to have accrue to you as an article
of practical furniture. That mental blueprint shaped every
board that you selected and every nail that you drove. You
did not deviate the smallest hair’s breadth from your Idea-
Picture that was ever before you. And yet mark this! . . .
You made that table as you did, after the pattern which you
did, because somewhere or other you had seen a table like
it, already in existence, which you wanted to possess or be­
lieved would suit your purposes. The mental picture of
that other table truly gave you your impetus for duplication.
130
|S^O W ALL this, we tell you, is an apt illustration of what
occurs in the form of finest ether when you conceive any
sort of project whose possibilities are realizable, or attainable,
by the Image-Pictures that are formed. The thought that
you expended upon your table did not exist in the picture-
image itself, but in your strong and consistent mental dy­
namics that concentrated all your efforts along the one pat­
tern until you had a finished table in fact. The "thought
essence of activity” was the true stuff that fashioned your
table and wrought its reality in concrete materials.
You could indeed have "thought your table into existence”
complete in every detail, if you had only manifested accord­
ing to certain cosmic principles which you have not as yet
mastered because you do not yet know the technique— which
in a feeble way we are now trying to give you.
Your table is a realization today, however, because you had
an impetus to make a table out of materials and followed
it through consistently to completion of the table. That
impetus was Thought in its accurate declension. It was
Thought in Manifestation, outside of materials already cre­
ated by Divine Mind. And its manifestation outside of ma­
terials already created by Divine Mind is brought about
through the energy of the phenomenon best labeled Light.
Not luminosity in this instance but "force of character” that
consistently applies itself until actualization is accomplished.
Put it in this way: You went out and looked at your lumber
because it was already conceived by Divine Mind and there­
fore discernible to your senses as a material. You said to
yourself: "I have these materials and by a process of En­
ergy directed by Thought I can effect an article of furniture
131
of such-and-such a pattern,” which you proceeded to do, be­
cause you acknowledged the existence of materials for the
reason that they were perceptible to your senses.
The reason that humankind generally does not manufacture
directly by Thought is not because the true Thought-Force
is lacking in its essence within human nature but because
the materials are not accredited as being in existence, due to
the inability of the physical senses to perceive them in the
shape of finest Ether.
If you could see Ether in its infinite gradations—as we see
it with our more accurate and acute senses outside limitation
— and if you knew how to shape it with the tools of the
mind as you shaped your table with tools of the hand, you
would have all sorts of creations in short order and become
absolutely free of the economic predicament
But you do not perceive the invisible substances all about you,
and so you think they are not there, therefore you can do
nothing with them. It is as though the lumber pile out of
which you constructed your table had been buried under a
haystack where you never could have noticed it Therefore
you would have said, "There is no lumber available, so I
cannot make my table,” and yet the lumber was in existence
all the time although buried and waiting for you to discover
and use it.
^ JO W G E T T IN G back to our discussion of Light after
this analogy, do you perceive the lesson we are seeking
to illustrate? In the case of your table, you had another table
that gave you the idea and you proceeded to fashion a du­
plicate in substance of your own materials. But let us say,
132
for the sake of argument, etherically speaking, that you did
not have this other table to copy. Let us say that forming
the second table out of Ether had to be preceded by an
imaginary table that you were going to copy, a Light Table,
as it were, the vacuities of which, when conceived as a Light
Table, you thereupon allowed to fill up after a natural
process with etheric particles of a given substance and mani­
festation. Thus you would have Light explained by func­
tioning— the only form of exposition possible to finite mind
in a world of three dimensions. This is because the Three-
Dimensional World only knows consequences, never origins,
origins being peculiar to forms of matter outside of three
dimensions.
In this regard, or on this basis, Light is a natural process,
substantiated by Divine Intelligence that manifests "in be­
tween” Thought-consciousness and Materialization. True,
Light is luminous to your mortal eye and gives you the
means of finding your way about by dispelling what you
call "darkness” because your eye is given to visualizing what
is manifesting in certain forms of intelligence deploying
amid fathomless dust. If there were no dust in the atmos­
phere against which certain etheric vibrations impinge, you
would have no such thing as luminosity, or the incandescence
to supply you with "sight credit” to find your way about.
The sun is the great Light-Giver, you say. But just what
do you mean? What but that it is Thought in its most awful
concentrated form, sending out vibrations so powerful that
the phenomenon of Heat is generated in the etheric universe
and heat becomes a luminosity when diffused by dust motes.
Thus Heat in some degree or other is always an accessory
133
of Light in manifestation. It is Cause as well as Effect.
Your scientists talk of "cold light,” meaning light without
heat. Strictly speaking, we of the Higher Dimensions have
never perceived this phenomenon anywhere in Cosmos. You
cannot have Light without heat in some degree. You can
have different gradations cf luminosity rendered contrary to
the accepted tenets of heat in incandescence, that is appli­
cable to materials impinging on your senses perceptions and
giving you light and warmth in compatible association. But
we think that we are correct in saying that Light and Heat
are synonymous in gradation to a degree that you cannot
have one without the other. The "fire” in the tail of a glow­
worm, the phosphorescent glow in certain oceanic animalcula,
is heat, in so far as their mental reflexes are concerned.
Make no mistake about this: You can produce light without
sufficient warmth or voltage to burn the fingers-—or perhaps
even to be sensed by the nerves—but you cannot produce
Light without some form or quality of accompanying heat.
You must not forget that Heat as a phenomenon is merely
a difference in the vibration of etheric particles from the vi­
bration of other etheric particles in juxtaposition to them—
just as you may have ice so cold in juxtaposition to the air
or your bodily temperature that it gives you the effect of
burning your fingers. But light as Light—because luminos­
ity has come from such juxtaposition— has little or nothing
to do with the human senses.
JSJO W LIG H T as a translucence of glory such as angels
and other higher beings possess, is of another gradation
entirely from incandescence, only discernible to those with
134
organisms capable of recognizing the vibrations that manu­
facture it. We are not going further into this luminosity
of Light at this time for it would be dealing with a grada­
tion and not a principle. Our purpose here is to tell you
what Light can do toward materialization of substances in a
world of three dimensions.
You do not need to know all the infinite possibilities in
Light in order to realize its materializing possibilities in
your three-dimensional universe. What you want to get at
is: What is Light, and what is its part in producing the uni­
verse, or such phases of it as will enhance the welfare of
men as units of society?
We are going to give you this, however—
Light exists for the manufacture of concrete patterns, by
the tenacity and intensity of Thinking toward an objective
whereby humankind can compose materials directly out of
etheric substances instead of by clumsy methods of tools
and substances already created!
What we are saying is that what Divine Mind has first con­
ceived and projected into the spatial universe of finite sub­
stances, mortal brain can duplicate by using the same proc­
esses and formulae. That is to say, you may get materiali­
zations in your own right if you will correctly understand
that this process occurs—
You want a thing to come to pass in substance or materials.
You "think” it first as an Idea-Picture. You dwell upon it
constantly and consistently, bending every effort toward its
realization until you have "created a disturbance in ether”
generating an infinitesimal amount of heat. This heat is
perceptible to more profound entities as a manifestation of
135
Light. This Light increases as you put stronger impulses of
mentality behind it. Finally—expressing it clumsily—a sort
of vacuum is formed in ether that has to be filled up with
etheric particles after the Form of the Light, particles of a
nature and a substance that correspond to the illumination.
Gradually these coalesce as more and more Thought is ap­
plied until a point is reached of so-called "solidarity in per­
formance” and you have concretely manufactured, as you
think, "something out of nothing” . . .
You have not done that exactly, of course, because etheric
particles already in existence are the basis of universal ma­
terial. But at least you have discerned your working ma­
terials under your hand and been given the tools of tech­
nique. From that point on, your success in creation is a
matter of your own precocity of intellect in supplying the
impelling force that "keeps the Light burning” so that ma­
terialization can take place in and around it.
y t f B T ELL you these things so that you may gradually
become wiser in the composition of the universe and
your ultimate command over it. There is no reason or excuse
for the economic circumstance in which you find yourselves
in a world that is fully supplied with plenty for all, through
the creating attributes of Divine Mind, of which your own
minds are microscopic replicas.
The Christ, whom all of us worship, performed such acts
of Divine Thought in Galilee and lesser men have since
called them "miracles,” . . . they were only miracles as these
lesser men were ignorant of the materials at hand all around
them for performing similar acts, hidden beneath the hay-
136
stacks of universal blindness. Recognition means realization.
The Christ said, "Whatsoever things that I do, shall ye do
also, yea, even greater things than I do, shall ye do.” Speak­
ing the Word, having faith to move mountains, is sending
an uninterrupted Thought-Force into the Cosmos so power­
ful of impulse that the process of Light-Heat-Vacuum-
Etheric composition of materials is instantaneous. For there
being no such thing as Time in the infinite dimensions,
why should the process not be instantaneous? What you call
Time in this instance would only be retarded movement in
the impellation of the original idea so that the Light Pat­
tern has to be built up by successive impulses— from weak­
ness to the proper strength.
Now take the case of a man or woman who wants to produce
a material in circumstance. The process would be, of course,
to "think it into being” through the accepted avenues of
material-already-brought-into-being, tools, muscular energy,
and fixed idea. Hence realization!
We tell you quite solemnly that this same man or woman is
quite capable of speaking a Thought Force so powerful,
with no negative qualities in it, that the lumber for the
Idea-Table flies out from beneath the haystack of itself,
forms itself into boards of the proper length, is fastened
with nails, and sets itself down a table.
Most of you would call this miraculous, necromantic, some
might even call it sorcery, practicing the Black Art, and say
that the perpetrator ought to be punished. We tell you
that it is a sign of your godhood to be able to do this, and
that as you progress in the understanding of Infinite Proc­
esses, you will be able to do it, and it will not be necromancy!
137
H E FIR ST step is concentration on a worthy idea. And
by concentration we do not mean a mere quiet attitude
in which the brain says over and over, "I am concentrating,
I am concentrating, I am concentrating.” It is a conscious­
ness of the thing to be desired, with a character-forcefulness
behind it that will not admit of defeat in realization, that
goes out of you into forms of Light and H eat that builds
up etheric particles.
Discern in your own mind the thing you want to materialize.
Dwell upon it, not upon the fact that you are concentrating.
Tell yourself mentally that you are painting a picture of it
in Light, stronger and stronger, brighter and brighter, till
the image seems on fire in your brain. Keep it up with a
further consciousness that radioactivity is going on, that
your Light-pattern is becoming a terrific magnet around
which the essence of materials is gathering. Know that the
substance for the materials you want is all about you, even
as the waves from countless broadcasting stations are stream­
ing through the room in which you are sitting at this mo­
ment. It is all a matter of making your Light-Pattern a
sufficiently powerful magnet!
Remember that the power flows into you, and through you,
to that lodestone. It does not come otherwise. And we do
not hoax you when we address you with the intelligence
that even as our Lord created bread to feed the Five Thou­
sand out of five loaves, so you can produce substances that
will alter the trends of your fortunes. But we adjure you
further—
The power flowing into you and through you being the
highest type of Divine Force, therefore you can only mani-
138
fest thus when the objective is for good. Evil destroys itself.
Even as your sacred sermon spake: Evil is ignorance. Wis­
dom is always required to perform goodly works.
'Y^/'E T ELL Y O U that you have this power within you
to free yourselves from want, that the day is presently
at hand when the potentates of a new order cannot rule by
dictating and controlling the economic circumstance. For
every man and woman shall be his or her own economic cir­
cumstance, depending upon his or her reactions to Higher
Celestial Law.
It is a mighty lesson and few there are who find it, or sense
it, in its most terrific meaning. It implies a great spiritual
supervision over the self, that such materializations do not
accrue to increase laziness, shiftlessness, spiritual indolence.
It means the enhancement of the powers of discrimination
as to who should receive the benefits of such economic ma­
terializing, in a manner that will not unduly upset their pre­
scribed Life Plans, uttered to themselves before coming into
their earthly bodies. Do you take note that although the
Christ fed Five Thousand when they had been all day out
upon a lonely mountainside listening to His sermons, there
is no record anywhere that He ever materialized a single coin
to pay a widow’s rent, or provide a beseecher of His bounty
with a new suit of clothes, or furnish a beggar with free
increment just because the beggar’s hand was stretched out.
The law of Effort is ever the materialization of compensation.
139
Chapter V
M A N ’S CREA TIV E Y EA R N IN G
T IS an easily recognized fact that nine out
of ten people acquire an interest in meta­
physics, and practically all forms of mysti­
cism, because consciously or subconsciously
they are disgruntled at the amounts of men­
tal and physical energy it consumes to live their lives and
would discover, if they could, a short cut, or system of short
cuts, to a swifter and more gratifying mortal performance.
Somehow and somewhere, deep down in the innermost re­
cesses of their spirits, they feel an instinctive assumption that
there is an easier way to get through the world and negotiate
its demands and quandaries, than those they have found to
be in vogue here since they gained to the responsibilities of
adulthood. They are furious at the circumscriptions of mor­
tal flesh; they are wearied and contemptuous of the toilsome
and clumsy methods by which man provides for the require­
ments of his body, conforms to the dictates of Nature, and
obtains substantial results in productive manufactures that
supply his existence with necessities and refinements. Some­
how they ought merely to "think a thing,” and have it ma­
terialize. If they envision an invention, they ought to be
140
able to actualize it without digging or smelting or cutting
or sawing or welding the materials. If they conceive some
goal that it seems desirable for themselves or the race to
arrive at, they don’t want to traipse all around Robin’s Barn
persuading lunkheads that it should be espoused, finding fi­
nances to finagle it, encountering obstructions and criti­
cisms that thwart or subvert it. Particularly in the matter
of securing the necessities of life, to say nothing of the eco­
nomic affluence that comes with accredited wealth, they sense
that something seems to be lacking in their lives, such as a va­
riety of magic wand. They should be able to wave this wand
and have their visions, wishes, and ideals brought to pass.
It is not altogether mental or physical laziness that prompts
such thinking. There is something buried deep in their sub­
conscious minds which thus motivates them. And when they
encounter the obstructions or circumscriptions of life without
that wand ready at hand, they are restless, hectic, and dis­
satisfied. They feel that they are not equipped to get through
the world as they should be equipped. Some vital and facile
thing is lacking.
’ R U T H to tell, the trouble with such people is that they
are "remembering” the facilities of their periods of ex­
istence in between their mortal lives, when they lived on the
planes of the etheric, and were able to summon up by
Thought Creation whatever they desired at a given time
to serve their needs. That in between their mortal incarna­
tions they have lived in octaves of matter so tenuous that
their own thought-projections manufactured whatever was
requisite to their needs or facility of expression, falls in the
141
category of a mere qualification of materiality; they have
not lived in a mere Dream World and naught else. How­
ever, incarnating down here in the grosser and more opaque
aspect of materiality, they discover that their "powers of
thought” are not powerful enough to get them what they
desire, since their thought is not powerful or adroit enough
to command patterns in such grosser and more opaque ex­
hibit of substance. They bring with them a vague and half-
formed realization that sometime, somewhere, they have
known types of existence where the operations of mind alone
wrought whatever results they yearned for; but securely
trapped in these grosser and more opaque patterns, they
cannot duplicate such creations. They are puzzled and dis­
couraged. This mortal octave, they decide, is at sixes and
sevens. So when metaphysical instruction comes to their no­
tice, and suggestions are made that Consciousness does give
power under certain conditions to obtain tangibilities in ma­
terials, their interest is aroused and they are willing to give
the subject a reasonable attention. O f course, what they
really are after is to transfer, after a fashion and as they
might manage it, the conditions of conscious life in the
higher octaves down here into conditions of life in this
grosser and more opaque octave, forgetting that if they did
not experience careers in this grosser and more opaque octave
first, they could not obtain the form-shape-size specifications
to make their creations recognizable in the octaves that come
subsequently. In other words, this basic octave which they
call mortality, and which they enter by entrapping their
spirits in physical bodies, has to be known and endured in
order that they may get the ideas to formulate into creations
142
of their own in the more tenuous octaves, and thus, after a
fashion, "create in their own right.”
rJ"H E R E is another way in which we might look at the
proposition. We might put it that this grosser and
more opaque octave of materiality, that we name the world
of mortality—because we experience it spiritually through
the senses operating in our temporary bodies— is the master
pattern projected in the aspect of the "natural” world by a
Being or beings long since graduated off into veritable as­
pects of divinity in their own right, that we lesser spirits
following along after them may acquire concepts that give
shape and sense to our own mental patterns in those interim
octaves where they become of real moment and practice. If
this Being—whom we call God for want of a better term—
or these beings, had not conceived such basic patterns, and
installed definite laws for their operation and identity, this
mortal world would be more or less chaotic, because there
would be as many types of thinking and creating as there are
distinct spiritual individualities existent within it.
The thought in itself, however, is a paradox. It is a paradox
in this respect: that such embryonic or developing spirits
would not be able to recognize themselves at all, for purposes
of creating objectively or for any other reason, unless they
first had this vast material world of substance and form and
size to supply them with self-awareness in terms of the sen­
sory reactions they suffer while residing in it.
The planetary world of substance and form and size invites
etheric spirits into contact with it, by incarnation or
otherwise. Such contact gives them impressions, sensations,
143
ordeals, and mental reactions that are commonly called ideas.
A t the most, these convey to the spirit the realization that it
is a Something apart from the causes originating the ideas.
As life succeeds life and experience succeeds experience in
this master-pattern world, these spirits acquire formulae for
the reception of Thought which they take away with them
into their interim careers and put into practice in their own
right. The world of materiality, as all of us find it about
us, is necessary, that by contact with its peculiarities and
bufferings we "learn how the thing is done” and equip our­
selves to do it, after the degree of our mental strength when
we gain to more tenuous octaves where it is possible.
Q F CO U R SE, this is almost the same as saying that if
there were no world, or worlds, of materiality to give
us master formulae to follow in conducting our own creative
experiments as we develop, there could be no such thing as
the development of consciousness through the constant inten­
sification of self-awareness, and after a fashion this is prob­
ably the truth. It does not necessarily mean that the heavenly
bodies were expressly created for man—as we commonly
know man—but it obviously does follow that man as we
know him employs the increments from his interim oc­
cupancies to evolve gradually and positively into something
that is higher and greater than man. W e can, however, keep
on safe ground by recognizing that whether or not these
planetary worlds were created for man, they certainly were
created for Spirit, and Spirit’s increment and celestial ex­
pansion, for the simple reason that these planetary worlds
in themselves are but aspects of such spirit’s subjective opera-
144
/
tion. Man, as we know him, is more or less an "octave of
demonstration” of such spirit in its exhibition of expanding
self-awareness and performance. Free Energy follows cer­
tain defined processes of activity, motivated by Thought in
its celestial aspects, and gets what we term planets— spherical
exhibits of the phenomena known as materials. Spirits devel­
oped at the present time to that status of performance which
we term Man reside in carnal bodies on the surface of these
planets and receive the educating experiences which they have
to inflict. The composition and behaviors of materials are
learned. Form and shape and relative size are grasped in
the abstract— from concrete demonstrations objectively ob­
served. Then the spirit-being, educated in its own fecundi­
ties, slips out of its enhousing mortal coil, and takes a fling
at doing the same thing in so far as its own immediate
wants are concerned, on planes of consciousness consistent
with its expanded "mental” strength. The spirit learns the
fundamentals in the material-planetary world—-or worlds—
and goes off by itself between mortal lives to practice in its
own right. The proposition may be likened to the business
of dreaming dreams. You converse with these people, relive
certain pleasant or unpleasant experiences that distinguished
your career there when you were a tot. Pray how could you
dream such a dream, or recognize that childhood home, or
be able to greet father or mother or sister, unless you had
first known these items in the realm of mortality? . .
S° PEOPLE with retentive prenatal memories experience
aggravating sensations of wanting a world around them
where their powers of thought are powerful enough, or corn-
145
prehensive enough, to command facilities or environments,
with no other expenditure of effort than mere thinking.
They really seem to be striving to pull features of octaves
in which their own mentalities are strong enough to perform,
down into this octave where their own mentalities are by no
means strong enough to perform. And when they can’t get
the results they instinctively expect should accrue, they either
turn into spiritual tramps of a sort, hunting magic wands in
this sect or that cult, or they become spiritual wrecks—
through perversity or ignorance—assuming that metaphysi­
cal recommendations are humbug. Probably they could do
a certain amount of materializing on this plane, if they knew
all the laws and prescriptions and had the mentality of a
Jesus through which their spiritual strength could operate.
But after a fashion, what they truly would be doing is show­
ing a development, while still in mortal bodies, commensu­
rate to that of the master beings who crystallized this plan­
etary orb and its features in the first place, or they would
be finding a way to transfer their own interim-life phenomena
into the basic-pattern life phenomenon as they meet with it
in this world of Substance. It is the adroit thing to do to
remember this exposition in considering what Higher Intelli­
gences have to disclose about Materializations on this plane.
By this is not meant the materializations done by mediums
in the field of psychics, but materializations of substances or
situations which are definitely desired by a spirit befuddled
by mortal inhibitions and handicaps. One thing we do no­
tice, whenever such disclosures are vouchsafed to us: invari­
ably help is said to be received in performing such "miracles”
from beings in invisible higher octaves. Let us take such a
146
recommendation-disclosure on its merits. It is an attempt,
of course, to convey master formulae for actualizing on this
plane, to those who may have attained to some degree of
capability for understanding and handling it. Still, it fits
into the general theme of the part played deliberately by
conscious mind in recognizing the reason why our planetary
or material worlds exist. "Earth Came” originally— we are
led to believe—because spirits had to know of educational
reactions from materials and their eccentricities, that in
higher and grander octaves of the future, they might attain
to those aspects of Consciousness that could of themselves
attain to supernal subjectivity. There may be a mystery
here that it is difficult for the normal mind to grasp, but
nevertheless, there are those who have proved that they have
done so, by the phenomena they have produced, even while
still engaging in incarnation. We shall take up this theme
again when we have assimilated the following Mentor Ad­
dress on what the fundamentals of materialization while still
in mortality apparently are . . .
M A TER IA LIZ A TIO N
y ^ L L LIFE is merely a matter of Vibration. The higher
the rate of vibration the higher and stronger the cre­
ated thing. Thought vibrates at a higher rate than anything
concerned with Form, and therefore is a subtler and stronger
agency than any other within your control. If you master
the subconscious through which these thought vibrations go
out, and reach others through their subconscious minds, you
can literally control the thoughts of one who has no protec­
tive barrier of knowledge.
More than that, you can if you know the method, create
actual concrete materializations of the Spirit Substance that
is the universe. But this comes only to those who have toiled
for years to achieve its technique. For the present you must
be satisfied with the simpler forms of thought manifestation
and control.
The first step is inner repose. The next is a constant holding
of a visualization of the thing desired as though it were al­
ready accomplished. Then you must endeavor to surround
that visualization with an atmosphere of love and harmony.
This is possible only if the object of your desire is really a
worthy one. N ot that any unworthy desire may not some­
times be achieved in this way. That is known as black art
and black magic. This, however, is the setting in motion
of a negative force and its final outcome is a boomerang
against the one who unleashes it.
148
When you work upon any project, there are two questions
involved: What you do and say, and what you think! And
the first is perhaps a tenth of the whole. O f course if your
thought is constructively in harmony with your word and
deed, you have a ten-tenths proposition. Now as to some
details—
D° Y O U concentrate upon the way in which the thing
is to be accomplished? No, neither upon the persons
who will bring it to pass, because then you limit things to the
person or means your limited vision sees. In the spiritual
universe may be potentialities much greater than you grasp,
and if you dwell simply and aptly upon the complete and
perfect thing always as a simple unit for the expression of a
much bigger possibility, then you paint the picture with the
vibrations of thought and it can go on to the next step which
is materialization.
This materialization may be accomplished in many ways.
The simplest is usually through action upon the thoughts
of others who are in a position to forward it, but remember,
you may have no conscious knowledge of who is best quali­
fied to forward what you want. If you send out your thought
vibrations in the right way, they will be picked up wherever
it may be, by the right person.
As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. And this goes for
body, soul, and spirit. We add to this: As a man thinketh
in his heart, so is the world he lives in.
149
OW IF you have labored to bring a worthy thing to pass
and have added to that labor the power of thought,
free from any doubt or hate, or any destructive vibration,
then it is already yours. But remember again, it is the sub­
conscious through which the constructive vibrations must
pass to reach their goal, and if you are not in control of the
stream it may carry doubts and fears of which you are not
consciously aware. It is for this reason that we say the first
step is Inner Repose. Without that you have no way to con­
trol the subconscious.
You ask if this means that you can influence the subcon­
scious thought of anyone anywhere on the planet. What is
space to a fourth-dimensional activity? When a vibratory
rate is high enough it practically has none of the barriers of
the concrete world.
Now when you thus visualize, it is helpful to draw a word-
picture of the desired consummation, not with many details
but the essence of it, and repeat orally this word-picture in
a somewhat rhythmic form.
This is not because the words help in the accomplishment di­
rectly but because they help get the right idea into the sub­
conscious and shut out random or contradictory thoughts
which you might hardly be conscious of. In other words,
they help to concentrate and focus your own mind. These
words must never be phrased in negative form, and you must
hold clearly the mental vision at the same time you say them.
What we have been saying is only for such occasions as offer
opportunity preferably before sleep at night and the first
thing in the morning. Add to this during the day any chance
for concentration. The rest of the time simply do what is
150
to be done, with a mind at rest as to the outcome and a feel­
ing of peace in your heart.
To prove your faith, act in all things as if the matter were
already settled. That is, make your plans with that in mind.
There are people of vibrations so earthy that they are in­
capable of response to spiritual vibrations such as ours. But
they are still subject to vibrations from fellow incarnate
minds, or from those on this side who are earthbound and
not yet vibrating on a spiritual plane.
There are three planes of vibration, with infinite vibrations
in each plane— first, there are the purely spiritual vibrations;
second, there are the Thought vibrations; third, there are the
vibrations of Matter.
We are able to make contact with those of earth who have
become conscious of their spiritual nature and who therefore
vibrate in the lower ranges of the spiritual plane as well as
in the others. Those who are thus graded also vibrate in har­
mony with others like themselves, and you have as a result
what is commonly called Affinity.
On the mental plane the rate of vibration may be raised by
taking thought, and by study, and by practice, and by medi­
tation. The vibratory rate of the body is its index of health
as health is acquired through proper care and right thinking
and spiritual harmony.
Because of the last, the body’s vibratory rate is automatically
raised and it becomes a finer instrument for the spirit’s use.
The rate of spiritual vibration is raised by every spiritual
vibration the soul gains.
Is idle pensiveness a thought-force? Sometimes most effec­
tively. Because a condition of unconscious repose is present
151
and the subconscious is easily accessible. Body doesn’t handi­
cap. This is a source of possible trouble because you may ne­
gate your moments of concentration by thoughts of doubt or
fear sent out in such unguarded moments.
JY ^A TER IA LIZ A T IO N S are of the essence of Thought
working put in crude matter but guided by the intelli­
gence of the materializing ego. They are made of vibration
of such pitch and tone that they go beyond any of the rays
so to speak, and are made of pure ether.
The ether is the universe in raw. It is Spirit awaiting mani­
festation but without any guiding intelligence. It goes to
the outermost boundaries of so-called Space and then folds
in upon itself in a manner that you could not understand
without understanding what is meant by the Fourth Dimen­
sion. When a directing intelligence wishes to make Spirit
manifest, the first move is to get permission of the Directing
Intelligence of Universal Spirit. When this has been allowed
for a worthy purpose, the next step is taking thought of the
type of materialization desired. This must always be for a
constructive purpose and often the best form suited is the
purpose to be attained.
When that purpose has been determined upon, the ways of
materialization are many and complex.
The Universe is motion. Motion is an attribute of the all-
pervading Spirit of Love. You cannot have materialization
therefore, without having Love. When Love and Harmony
are present, therefore, Intelligence can start the ether in mo­
tion wherever it happens to be that the manifestation is de­
sired. Intelligence is self-motivating when it is a manifesta-
152
tion of love. Being such, it can also motivate the ether in
which it functions.
There are properties in ether not yet discovered by chemists
or scientists that help Intelligence in the business of materi­
alization. They are radio-chemical substances which, when
acted upon by thought, produce that queer particle known
as the electric granule from which all Matter is built up.
Now when a materialization for a worthy purpose is desired,
you can see what happens. Thought vibrates in and on
ether and starts radio-chemical disturbances of these as yet
unknown properties, and from them is produced the electric
granule and the simpler forms of Matter.
The simpler forms of Matter, by the application of still
more intelligence, can be built up instantaneously into the
most complex. Time is not a factor in this process. It can
be done almost in one operation and you get a materializa­
tion at once.
J T M IG H T be asked why materializations involving more
than one person are difficult of completion. It is because
different personalities are prone to offer counter-attractions
for the ether kettle to boil around negatively. Too much
kettle prevents heating to the boiling point; whereas when
two or more people work in harmony they concentrate heat
under the one kettle, as it were.
When you want to materialize thought in another brain, the
process is not much different. You always have automatic
permission when your purpose is worthy. So there is nothing
then to prevent you from exercising the same sort of intelli­
gence which any of us would exhibit now to appear in flesh.
153
That is, start the ether spinning in thought-waves faster and
faster until they begin to produce heat. This heat is a form
of magnetic current which energizes the life-stream and flows
in it till it finds its objective in human affairs.
Whenever you want a materialization in thought in the
brain of another, the first thing to do is to step up the con­
scious vibration in that person by means of your own sub­
conscious sending station. Do this by calmly concentrating
on the object or purpose to be attained. Gradually increase
the feeling of love and harmony within the heart. Keep this
up as long as the emotions will stand it. There will be a
stimulating outflow of energy into the ether that will gradu­
ally build up subconscious activity in the minds of those fix­
ing the conscious attention on the objective. Make it con­
cerned in your objective. They may not be the persons you
imagine at all, but they are connected with the project or
they would not get the vibrations.
Just so long as you keep stepping up the ether vibrations, you
will be building up subconscious knowledge into deliberate
conscious action. The process is not difficult but it is com­
plex and requires practice. You must be clear in your own
mind just what you are after. You should not be carrying
any other purposes or thoughts in your brain when attempt­
ing a concrete materialization. You must eliminate every
irrelevant topic and idea, so as to have a clear sending-chan­
nel in order for your idea to be materialized. Do not try to
concentrate by overly-tiring the mind with an idea-pattern
merely because it is a pattern.
You can materialize thoughts favorable to your worthy pur­
poses, in others, by a calm, deliberate, single-track fixing of
154
the whole attention on the person, thing, or purpose, and
holding it there until the desired product has actually come
about. You may not know the process involved but you will
be in possession of the rule that governs it.
That is the way that the Hindu yogi moves inanimate objects
about. It means the employment of persons on this side also,
however, who are not any materializations out of raw ether,
although they are not visible to mortal eye.
Such an exhibition is accomplished with the aid of an astral
arm, so to speak, that has not actually materialized but
which has all of the potential strength of a material arm.
This of course accounts for much of the mystery in telekine­
sis. The strength does not necessarily have to be closeted
inside Matter in order to function. It can come through a
variety of sources, all of which are commandable at will.
One of these sources is ectoplasm, as we have said in pre­
vious instruction. In broad daylight this ectoplasm is invisi­
ble. It is only seen when it exhibits in some form of materiali­
zation. Nevertheless, it may be in existence anywhere at any
time, and reach out from the Fourth Dimension when feats
employing strength of any sort are required.
In a darkened or red-lighted room it is possible under certain
conditions to see this ectoplasm with the naked eye when ma­
terialization in some degree or other is in process.
y H E T H EM E of materialization has been the origin of
much literary and spiritualistic humbug. It is not possi­
ble to materialize promiscuously or to scare people at sight.
That is employing it negatively and reacts quickly on the
instigator. When materialization is effected it is usually for
155
some very constructive purpose, and only for a moment as
the energy employed by thought to get the result is tre­
mendous.
W e on this side cannot cooperate in the cause of psychic sci­
ence. W e are not interested in advancing the cause of psy­
chic science; we are only interested in advancing the cause
of religious spirituality, which is quite another thing. W e are
not above a materialization for you when it means the
strengthening of your own faith. A s for scientific experi­
ments, so-called, why should we be interested in convincing
a lot of skeptics who will not believe even after they have
been shown? W e have better ways of employing our time,
even as our Lord did no tricks of magic to gain followers
but worked miracles when it meant the converting or curing
of individual souls.
W hat of the southern Negro of psychical record who saw his
"dead” master approach across a plowed field and said that
he smelled like a goat? Such a materialization is likely to be
more that of an earthbound spirit who has not yet fully
shaken off the earth-plane conditions and for a time may be
vibrating so crudely as to be visible to mortal eye. When
the earth condition terminates, then the vibrations speed up
and the psyche functions on the spiritual plane, when it
ceases to be visible.
The whole subject of materialization, both of M atter and of
Thought, is something to be investigated and practiced fully.
When you have a point to attain in Space you figure the dis­
tances before trying to figure out equations. It is the same
with the activities of the subconscious. You must establish
the principles of contact before you go trying to make the
156
human equation balance. You have made the human equa­
tion balance in times past, after figuring distances, so to
speak, and you felt the proper satisfaction over your mathe­
matical achievements though you did not always recognize
their premise. You have been given a gift, let us say. It is
rare and worth receiving. You have a sense of gratitude for
the gift. But if the giver owes you money you would some­
what discount the gift as a gift and feel somewhat cool to­
ward it. The same applies to a project that creates a gift by
thought. It is due you for your work in creating it, and so
having received it, you do not feel that you should be overly
concerned at getting it.
r£ 'HE O PEN DOOR to Materialization is Thought. We
of the more harmonious planes think things into your
realm by the process of consciously projecting them at your
feet. We open our hearts to Love, to their fullest content,
not so much a harmonious feeling as a deliberate attempt to
force a constructive act to a world of reality, inviting all the
aeons to witness that we work with a goodly intent and a de­
sire to please. You are working with a goodly intent and per­
chance the desire to please, but you are handicapped by the
might of numbers against you.
These people do not know what they are doing or they
would not obstruct you. They are making your life miser­
able by thwarting you and casting up errors against you.
However, none of that tonight . . .
We would please you as we could, delineating to you the
process of conscious composition of etheric substance.
On your plane you have an urge or an idea that you want a
157
thing accomplished, for possession of something like a sum
of money. You open your hearts to love and invite the con­
scious presence of the hosts of unseen friends. It is they who
do the real work for you which you cannot do for yourself
while on a plane of Effect purely.
Conscious and deliberate manufacture of materials is pleas­
ant to contemplate, but there are many processes involved, or
rather intermediate steps, before you become aware of the
substance in your hand. You say you want a thing to ma­
terialize in circumstance. What do you do? You consider
all the agencies at hand to effect the result. You want a
thing like a lamp or a book. If you cannot print the book,
you go out and buy it. You produce coins from your purse
which have definite value, offer them to the storekeeper and
exchange with him for the article sought. This is pure barter
by swapping two things already in existence. Nevertheless
you have put forth the concrete gesture by taking yourself
to the store and making the exchange.
Now in taking thought to materialization we have to take
several things into account. Have we strength in the first
place to effect the work? Have we a given number of people
all of like mind to concentrate on a given objective and
bring its Light Pattern into being? Numerous are the ways
of effecting a result.
The most dangerous thing you could do would be to project
a half-developed Pattern-Form left around for others to
bump into, projected into an area of space that gives only
partial results. Consummate care and attention is required
to complete a manifestation when we take an envelope of
ether and subdue it into a form-giving pattern that is to
158
effect a realization. You are supposed to finish the job.
Matter has not always had its present inner meaning. The
ancients did not know matter as you may come to know it.
They complied with laws and processes and got a certain
product necromantically, believing it witchery and black art.
They did not know that they could have made Matter with
the power of Thought.
Now take the case of a needed bank balance. You say you
want it by a given date, thus putting the time element into
something that is difficult to produce because it means the in­
closure of that much etheric substance, around a pattern
that is not easy to imagine in order to be correct in all its
details.
The process is known in cosmic law as fighting with nones­
sentials. That is trifling with hoaxes, and we will have none
of it, since we cannot produce a given quantity of materials
as its premise.
Your opportunity for materialization rests within the domain
of Mind, therefore likely effecting a hook-up with forces of
an evil nature, which again is not pleasant business.
Money is the means to an end, the same as any other com­
modity—more often an evil end than otherwise. However,
we advise you to do this:
Take thought of the rhapsodies in Nature which produce
results in acumen that make you to lag behind the procession
of event in order to be observers of that which is left when
the illiterate have departed. By this we mean, there is a pleas­
ant avenue to opulence awaiting your testing, and the exer­
cise of wits gains you recompense commensurate with your
efforts put forth to bring success to yourselves.
159
We concur in no fatal mischief’s being permitted in a mat­
ter that is grave in the destiny of the race. But we solicit
no funds for you that cannot be credited to legitimate
sources, even as your Brother in flesh and spirit.
160
Chapter V I
T IM E O U T FOR PRO LO GUE
T IS introducing no irrelevant note into this
book, I declare, to pause a moment at this
point and insert a few paragraphs in expla­
nation of the material that it contains, and
how it was compiled. I might have put such
a prologue of course, but between you and
me, I think prologues abominable. You or I buy a book
because its title has intrigued us. We are eager to read its
contents. We open the covers, crease back the leaves, and
look for page one. But instead of sallying forth into enticing
composition, take note what confronts us. There is a Pro­
logue, or a Preface, or a bothersome Introduction. The au­
thor feels it necessary to tell us how he came to write the
volume, or who helped him type it—probably giving the
stenographer such recognition in lieu of unpaid wages—or
perchance he records whole catalogues of authorities and ex­
perts upon his subject, as though seeking to persuade us that
though his thoughts are original, others in his held may have
made similar blurbs and explorations. Now all such may be
legitimate and in a measure necessary. But why not wait, as
I have waited, till the reader-customer has been sold or not
161
sold on the quality of the merchandise? If the reader-custom­
er has not been sold, he cannot possibly be interested in
how the volume was undertaken, how the secretary has paid
her room rent, or whether a thousand professors or scientists
have advanced their twenty cents’ worth in support of his
proposals. If the reader-customer has been sold, his interest
in author, secretary, or colleagues is reasonable and auto­
matic, so the castor oil of such technicalities is swallowed un­
wittingly, at least without complaint, even with savor, in the
appetizing richness of the viands as a Work. In the present
case, my motive for putting my prologue-preface-introduction
along in the center of my volume arises from the fact that
until such center had been reached, my reader might be
skeptical about accepting it at all—another way of saying
that he might not comprehend it. This thing, regardless,
happened—
P A C K in 1928, I began the recording of a great mass of
promiscuous metaphysical papers. Having discovered—
and reasonably perfected—my own extrasensory powers, I
was eager to have explained at once whatever cosmic quan­
dary popped into my head. That clairaudience must be a
fact, that there must be "mentors” knowing more than I did
in more accelerated frequencies of Time, Space, and Matter,
I could scarcely impugn. I was not only making these re­
cordings by and through my own organism, but I was re­
ceiving intelligence that had never been introduced into my
mind before, either consciously or subconsciously, which on
checking with mystical and scientific experts I discovered to
be correct. Night unto night, week unto week, month unto
162
month, during the years 1928 to 1935— a whole seven of
them— I spent such periods as I could connive delving deep
and far into subjects not commonly of record in many earth­
ly books. Five to six thousand pages of erudition in the Eter­
nal Verities resulted when the matter had been typed. But
there was neither order nor method as to subjects in such
transcription. I might take down a paper on materialization
one night and a discussion on the bisexual nature of the soul
the next. One week might be given to learning about the
mysteries of ancient Egyptology, to be followed by fresh
treatments of Constitutional Law or Ethics in the United
States in the way of prophecy, philosophy, or politics.
Finally the year arrived when I felt I had a set of basic blue­
prints and specifications of the Universe’s architecture. Only
a sorting out was necessary, collating the papers and discus­
sions by theme, hypothesis, or pattern, and presenting all
the material in a given department of human thought in
progressive order for eventual publication. But with some
two hundred and sixty discourses of profoundest enlighten­
ment arranged before me— by correlated titles instead of
dates of transcript— I discerned these defects in the work as
a whole: One discourse by no means joined smoothly into
another; the tempo was ragged in developing the theme;
more than all else, if it became necessary to follow a record­
ing dated 1929 with one of similar subject dated 1934, the
Mentor made puzzling reference to treatments and disclos­
ures that may have come between. True, I could edit out
most of these, but I could not insert erudition on allied sub­
jects that belonged in volumes distinct to themselves. How
to get around these? Obviously, I could only do it by sup-
163
plying a connecting treatment of my own composition that
must bridge constant chasms between seried Revelations.
And that thing I have done, drawing as needs be on all the
material that has been presented to me to expound the thane
with smoothness and lead my reader with adroitness up the
vista of Temple Steps . . . .
rJT d A T is why you may have been puzzled occasionally in
the hundred and sixty pages immediately foregoing by
references to themes, metaphors, and statements, that you
may not recall having previously read. "A s we said in our
previous discourse” can refer to an address on quite an­
other subject, taken the day or week before as a recording,
and by no means all-pertinent to the matter in hand; it may
not refer to the previous discourse in this book. Still, that
is a minor matter.
The thing that has never ceased to astound me, in recording
and compiling these essays on the "unknowable,” has been
the manner in which they have infallibly stacked up with
the most recent and timely findings of scientists and physi­
cists throughout the present world.
When I first began taking the Inner-Ear Dictation, Edding­
ton had not published his Nature of the Physical World, Sir
James Jeans had not compiled his Mysterious Universe,
while in the domain of Esoterics two notable volumes had
yet to make their appearance, Johannes Greber’s Communi­
cations with the Spirit World and Stewart Edward White’s
Unobstructed Universe. Students who may have read any
one of the four, or all of them, will know how they confirm
and expound exactly the same mechanics in and behind Mat-
164
ter as well as latest findings and codings in Radio-Dynam ics.
D ifferent nam es m ay have been originated by these authors
as labels for the forces or the phenomena they have com­
monly recognized, but the existence and operatings o f such
forces are described as the sam e. W hat G reber term s the
"odic” force, W hite gives the label o f the "orthic” force.
Eddington and Jean s talk about Relativity and R adiation,
and out in C alifornia M illikan experimented with his cosmic
rays and arrived at the sam e standards o f atom ic structure
and operation.
Understand me, it is not vanity on my part that impels me
to mention that the findings of these scientists and psychical
researchers confirm or complement my own. It is not vanity
that I feel but a frightening wave of awe— that long before
the above books reached print, I must have been in touch
with Great W its and taken their higher-octave lectures so
accurately that the most recent pronouncements of "science”
are but duplications of what I have dated in my files as of
1928 and 1929. It is an enthralling thing to read the latest
books of the scientists and play the academic game of identi­
fying elements, forces, and essences that seemed to me the
fabrications and fantasies of my own subconscious when I
wrote them down a dozen years bygone. For instance, the
masterly rendition by Jeans in the Mysterious Universe of
the growing certainty that M atter is built up from positive
and negative electrical "waves” coursing through ether and
not precisely "particles” as items with individualities unto
themselves. . . . Says Jeans, after a couple of hundred pages
of delineation of Physics, M atter, Relativity and Radiation:
"Today there is a wide measure of agreement, which on the
165
physical side of science approaches almost to unanimity, that
the stream of knowledge is heading towards a nonmechanical
reality; the universe begins to look more like a great thought
than like a great machine. Mind no longer appears as an
accidental intruder into the realm of matter; we are begin­
ning to suspect that we ought rather to hail it as the creator
and governor of the world of matter—not, of course, of our
own individual minds, but the Mind in which the atoms out
of which our individual minds have grown, exist as thoughts.”
Such is no cult leader speaker, of a Sunday afternoon in the
Wilshire district of Los Angeles. One of the foremost physi­
cists of our age is responsible for such confirmation of claims
that metaphysicians have been voicing since the days of
Pythagoras.
rJpH E O TH ER evening, at the home of a young electrical
wizard in Indianapolis, I was shown a chart at least
thirty inches long on which were marked in colors all the
rays and their frequencies, known to scientists and radio
engineers at present. These rays, originating God knows
where, and pulsing through the universe at millions of miles
per second, give us the various phenomena of radio trans­
mission, X-ray photography, incandescence, sound, down to
rates so sluggish that they can scarcely be followed except­
ing into conjectured forms of atomic substance. On that
chart, thirty inches in length, I say, the light-wave that is re­
sponsible for incandescence as our eyes perceive it, is ap­
proximately half-an-inch, and is located to the left of center
of the diagram. Even the chap who comes to fix your radio
in the evening, is probably more conversant with the chart’s
166
full significance than I, for I only plead to being a mere
author-amanuensis who has had three hundred discourses dic­
tated to him that have slightly bogged his credulity.
Ordinary human beings, for a million years, have thought
of light as that half-inch of vibratory frequency in the thirty-
inch chart of ether waves composing the universe. In our
own discourses of the moment, it is evident that our mentors
call the complete ensemble of Wave-Manifestation by the
name of Light. And they claim that the whole universe is
composed of naught else. Thereupon come Eddington,
Jeans, Einstein, Millikan, Maxwell, Poynting, Rutherford,
and a host of others, and seem to nod their heads and rub
their noses in a sort of acquiescent cogitation. Then a few
years ago, Betty White, the wife of the famous American
short-story writer, Stewart Edward White, made the passing
from her body into the more accelerated dimensions. For
years she and her husband, together with a little New York
group, had been exploring into higher-life phenomena. Sud­
denly Betty "died.” Having gotten herself oriented to her
new condition, and knowing that those whom she had left
in the body would be eager to gain first-hand information
from her observations in her new environment, Betty per­
fected a means for communicating with them directly and
expounded to them the mechanics of the universe as she
thereat beheld them. "Stewt,” her husband, collected her
explainings in a book published (1940) by Dutton’s under
the title The Unobstructed Universe. Throughout its three
hundred pages Betty sticks nobly to the ordeal of trying to
convey to minds living in three dimensions, what existence
is like in four. Betty, or Stewart, certainly never had access
167
to these pages, and yet in The Unobstructed Universe I find
exact confirmation of the electro-mechanics and higher-fre­
quency enlightenments described so minutely in the 300
papers reposing in my files. It surpasses common sense for
this to be coincidence . .
rJ ' lH E U N IV ER SE and everything that’s in it—to put it
crudely for easy consumption—is nothing more nor less
than an electrical convulsion inside the mind of a Divine
Gargantua, whom, for want of a better designation, we call
God. But this by no means postulates a creature who shapes
up as a colossal Moses, with a beard and a temper, and an
ear for ail troubles to which human flesh is heir. It would
seem to me, from all I have gained by recording my own
Scripts, and reading about everything since that scientific
writers have published upon the subject, that the most com­
petent manner of conceiving ’'God” would be to imagine a
titanic creature who consisted of head and naught else— a
head without a face! We are all figments of this "God’s”
imagination, swimming around inside this omnipotent skull-
case. And this God is outside of us, surrounding and en­
closing us yet by no means objective to us. Carrying
the analogy further, the thought-pulses of His brain are the
trillion-trillion "waves” that, considered in their different
speeds, result in seeming coagulations of phenomena known
as Matter. But Matter is only real to our own rate of con­
sciousness when it exhibits at a frequency that approximates
our physical entrapments.
Betty makes this clear in her The Unobstructed Universe.
There is only one universe, she says. But it offers two aspects.
168
One is the obstructed aspect; the other the unobstructed.
The obstructed aspect is the material world of form—requi­
site because without it, or experience in it, incarnating con­
sciousness would not comprehend lack of obstruction.
All the people ever known to have lived on earth—bar­
ring consideration of their reincarnations—are right here
in the aura of the planet earth, so to speak, and always
will be here till there is another gigantic migration into
higher aspects of Spirit.
But they are functioning in frequencies so fine and fast that
persons in these material frequencies have no common way
of getting in touch with them. Betty White was an intelli­
gent woman. She is still an intelligent woman. She makes
shredded wheat biscuit of the paganistic hypotheses of the
theologians, but with all due respect to them, they’ve got
to be dismissed eventually as the revelations of the immi­
nent Aquarian Age approach closer to Fact. . . .
rjp H E W H O LE universe is— for want of a better term—
an Electrical Effect. Everything going to make up Mat­
ter is arrived at by Wave Convulsions of a sort that find
separation and equilibrium unto themselves and perform in­
side this gigantic skull-case of the "God” that is all head,
no body, and lacking recognizable face. When we, as En­
tities Capable of Acquiring Thoughts and thereby arriving
at a sense of our own individualities, operate on a given
wave-frequency, everything within that octave becomes what
we call Reality to us. W e graduate out of one octave and
into another octave, and everything pertaining to that oc­
tave’s wave-frequency becomes "real” to us in turn. Our
169
intrinsic spirits have little to do with it, excepting to experi­
ence within octave-vehicles and observe. Whatever octave
we are observing from— through the appropriate vehicle, of
course— will have all aspects of reality to us. Our living
bodies "sense” the effects of such cognizance and report the
reactions to Mind and Spirit.
Bearing this in mind for the moment, it seems appropriate
to insert here a discourse that I took clairaudiently in 1929
that had most to do with Thought Forms, or the ability of
the spirit-soul to imitate the world-projection process in its
own right, on its own octave, and within its own circumscrip­
tions. I’m coming back a few pages further on, to this sub­
ject of a universe of planets being projected— our own in
particular— that offers educating Form in most positive as­
pects.
Consider this octave of three dimensions as the Obstructed
Octave, or Octave of Obstructions, and yet consider what
this following Revelation has to say about the instruction
resulting from having artfully mastered it—
170
L IG H T A S SP IR IT ’S SU B ST A N C E
Q e a r l y beloved brethren in mortality: There are times
in your lives when it seems to your earthly understand­
ing that all the agencies of celestial protection and benedic­
tion are denied you. You go from plight unto plight and
from quandary unto quandary. You are not aware that,
beseeching you or guiding you, there are transcendent entities
making easy your pathways, giving of their offices that you
may be preserved.
If this were not so, human life would be chaos. You could
not have society as society is now constructed. The Forces
of Evil would so engulf you that the times would be abhor­
rent. You could not withstand them.
You think that life is harsh with you at present. We tell
you that a great revaluation of the nations is in progress,
that some must be taught by bitter experience that debauch­
ing of their brethren works reactive penalty.
You are living in a world where the forces of error seem
everywhere rampant. We tell you in no uncertain voice, they
are not rampant, for rampant would mean that they are not
controlled. We tell you that within all limits necessary to
the denouement of the Plan, they are controlled. We say
they are "permitted,” which means control in essence. There
is a vaster, wider conflict in process of fruition and those
who perceive it are guided with acumen. You are living
171
through days of tumult that tranquillity may come, to then
be appreciated for that which it is.
The alignment of the nations has in it wisdom. The arrange­
ment of peoples, when all turmoil has ended, is a phase of
God’s peace prophesied of old "when Satan shall be bound.”
So we reserve our remarks this hour for interpretation of
that which shall be spoken to you by a greater Mind than
ours. W e transmit you our wisdom based upon His preach­
ment—
T H E G REA T TEA CH ER SPEA KS:
]fy |Y D EA R LY BELO V ED : Know that I address you.
Know that we are brethren performing goodly labors.
Yet there are occasions when those opposing us are vigorous.
They have confusions in their hearts, creating much trouble
for me and for mine own. I tell you the enemy pursueth re­
lentlessly—that ye have no moment when he attempteth not
your downfall.
Behold we are concerned with making world plans. Nothing
of consequence shall happen to disrupt them. Beloved, hear
me say it! But ye have obligations each unto others, in ways
that are earthly. These cause you concernments. Ye go and
come in business, enduring little strifes, resenting your ha-
rassments.
I tell you that yet a little while and that which perplexeth
shall drop away utterly. The times are ripe for change. I
speak in its tumult and the nations shall hear me.
I have said that ye shall render unto Caesar the things that
are Caesar’s and unto the Father the things that are the
172
Father’s. Have ye forgotten the import of that message?
I tell you that insomuch as ye do this thing, ye display a
goodly countenance, naught cometh of permanence to make
confusion in your lives.
The things that ye do are important to me. Behold they con­
cern the Kingdom of Light. They have intent to help man­
kind. Therefore are my servants of incentive to be your
bodyguards. W e are not concerned with dollars except as
they advance the Plan. Do that which seemeth circumspect
and let my servants serve. There are reasons ahead why
ye should know of mysteries concerning Light.
Light, I have told you, is creator of all good. It is sub­
stance whereby the return of your souls into earthly bodies is
determined. Light hath more properties than men have dared
dream of. It hath vibration so fine in ether that incandes­
cence cometh. It reacheth men’s eyes in formations of waves.
It is more than incandescence that man may see in darkness.
It giveth him sustenance of spirit. It maketh miracles to
happen.
Light is the shibboleth of the Host when it is manifesting.
But likewise it manifesteth unto itself. Light hath in it
properties to bring order out of chaos. It goeth forth into
darkness, pressing Order before it. Lo, its vibrations bring
harmony making Order.
It hath power to achieve. It goeth up and down the universe,
verily impelling creation before it. Light is the word of
the Father saying Be! Lo, matter Is.
Light cometh unto radiant beings making them of radiance.
It goeth forth from others and maketh a path of brilliance
proclaiming them. I say unto you, beloved, except ye be bom
173
as creatures of Light ye cannot exist of permanence, for
Light itself is permanence.
Light cometh to all the universe as form on form. Lo, it
starteth in Eternal Time, as man reckoneth time. It goeth
forth unto all eternity encountering no halt. Light shineth
in darkness and men say, a fire existeth! Know that I tell
you that Light maketh fire, and not the fire, Light.
Light is the substance of Spirit manifesting. Great things
cometh, in that Light hath function. It goeth forth unto
eternity, as hath been said, and findeth chaos in eternal
principle. Lo, it chargeth it with Order and men say: A new
star cometh! Stars are light only when Light radiateth from
them. Stars are not light when Light leaveth them to seek
other exhibitions. Verily the mysteries of Light are uncon­
ceived by mortal brain. The Father sendeth His word by
Light. It manifesteth in atom and in sun immense. Light
is that property in ether which hath the power to conceive it­
self in Form! Light is that property in ether which maketh
man to see himself raised upward to his godhood. Even as
Light bringeth order out of chaos, so doth it impact on man
and bring him to ennoblement.
Man cometh to the Godhead, I tell you, in that he hath re­
ceived the light. He is swept in the path of Light toward
the eternal principle of Love.
I say to you, Ye are born of Light. Light hath made you
mortal although ye know it not. It hath transcended mortal
tissue and implanted you in that which is embryo, making
cell on cell to grow until ye have your bodies. Light cometh
to the parent, I say, in conception. It quickeneth embryo
and lo, it is Form. It permeateth Matter and thus causeth
174
Growth. It supplieth growth with tissue. Light openeth the
womb and bringeth forth the babe. Light hath power to
do that which is forbidden to mortal flesh in that it is clumsy
in maneuvering.
We are concerned with Light as the instrument of Truth.
Light is our tocsin making men to know their godhood. I
say, even as it openeth the womb of mortal mother, so open­
eth it the womb of time, bringing forth progress in goodly
abundance.
Ye have heard it said that I am the Light of the World,
that no man cometh to the Father but by me. Ye have
thought it a symbol. Verily I tell you, it hath been Truth
Incarnate! I have made Light my motive servant. In Light
have I manifested. I have taken waves of ether and fed
hungry mouths with food. Light came to me in form not
seen by mortal eye. I took it and employed it: lo, multitudes
feasted.
Light waves are Thought Incarnate manifesting on and in
substance. Treat ye this with circumscription. Men under­
stand it not. Men say: Lo, light cometh from a lamp, not
knowing that the vessel cometh out of Light. Men say:
The lamp is "lighted.” Lo, the lamp merely holdeth fire
which is ever Light in process of its manifesting. Mark,'
this well, my beloved. Ye have use for Light yourselves in
times that are to come. I say to you: Light is your servant
even as it is mine. Ye shall see Light manifesting in sub­
stance and wonder at it. All substance, beloved, hath ema­
nation. That is Light in a form. Light is concerned with
creating that form. Now I tell you more . . .
Wherever there is Light, there is ever Form. Without Light
175
is no Form. That is apparent in physical sight; how much
more apparent in sight of the spirit. Let me tell you, ye are
possessors of Truth already, making you wise above your
generation. I tell you, ye have powers that come of me mak­
ing Light-Forms already. Ye see these forms at times and
know them not for what they are.
Light cometh unto you making ideas for writings. Ye say
ye have "inspiration.” Lo, my servants sent you Light mak­
ing ideas for your use. Light is concerned in all that you
are, and all that you do. Study Light well; it holdeth Life’s
secret. Men will one day find that Light turned on chemical
formation maketh it to live! Lo, they have the principle al­
ready but use it not, because they fear it.
I say, all emanation forever is Light. We make light unto
ourselves for our direction in earthly journeyings and think
it not miraculous. Light can be made for spiritual joumey-
ings and men thereby see visions.
I tell you that men shall discover the Life-Secret while they
are exploring Light!
Cometh a time in your affairs when ye will have need of
miraculous power. It is given you in flashes of incandescent
Light, making you feel vast strength of mentality. Great
are the ennoblements arising within you. They flood and
surcharge you. Ye shall have a strong feeling of muscular
power. Light showereth about you and ye receive it unto
yourselves. Lo, ye are radiant, in that ye have absorbed it.
Ye strive as strong men to contest in a race and presently
there go forth from each of you, waves of ether forming
Substance at command. I tell you that thus did I my mira­
cles, as men so call them, but men’s eyes saw not the Light
176
that visited me, being clumsy in their sensory performance.
Light hath also a power abstrusely, making no impression
upon the retina. Lo, rays of Light are all about you and ye
perceive them not. Great things transport themselves
throughout the universe by Light and men discern them not,
thinking Light is only fire. I say unto you: Light which the
eye perceiveth is Incandescent for the purpose of making the
universe known to men’s senses. But incandescent Light is
but a form and not a principle. Forms of Light there are,
that have power to transcend all earthly substance and pene­
trate that substance verily as mist. Ye have heard radio
waves making miracles for ear to hear. Light is making
sound too low for human eye. Light transcendeth substance
and giveth emanation in Form which man hath not dis­
covered.
I tell you herein secrets that are of me and my company.
Know that I come to you presently in flesh. I see into your
hearts and know that ye seek me. Lo, I seek you with an
equal forbearance, with love, with charity, with toleration,
for all that perplexeth you. Know more, my beloved; I speak
to you with vehemence . .
J COM E to you making you to have power and dominion
over Substance and Spirit. Ye have been promised earthly
benefits. Came they not when ye expected them. I come
unto you showing you power to command them. Know ye
my voice. Beloved, I speak to you truly and insistently. I
tell you to arise and go about your leadership, fearing no
persons, for lo, I am with you and sustain you against the
enemy. Tremendous hath been your progress. Ye have
177
wandered from me in past years and were played upon by
forces that led you into error.
I did know this was so, but I said unto my servants: The
Beloved return. Lo, came ye to me with hearts bowed down,
saying: Lord, manifest in us that we may know our power.
My beloved, harken! Power cometh unto you! Men say to
me: Are not these the souls who lead us in thought of Thee
in principle? I say unto them: Lo, my servants speak to you,
harken to their wisdom. Faith is given unto you to triumph
over error.
Beloved, be kind to those who walk in darkness. They are
children who need your help. Strive not against them. Hand
them up to higher valors. My calling of you is of eternal
consequence.
Behold we are brought before the seats of judgment. God
calleth us to give accounting of our trespasses and charges.
I say: Be not cast down if men revile you and in my name
persecute you. I lead mine own and they suffer not in spirit
when they interpret me to sheep that have strayed afar in
ignorance.
Go ye into the world and say unto men: Lo, the Master
sendeth us, telling you to be strong of heart and harken to
His word that is spoken in event. He cometh unto you in
spirit manifesting in substance before the nations. He hath
said unto men: Peace! goodwill on earth! Verily He saith
more within your heart of hearts.
I tell you, beloved, the times are ripe for manifesting. Ye
know a great lore. That which is common to you shall be
no longer common. The world shall know change. The
lives ye know shall hold a goodly promise. Think not to it
178
now but recall that I have said it. Have I not told you that
ye manifest for me unto the listening millions? I perceive
vast audiences listening whilst ye speak, taking your words
and living by them hourly.
Ye have heard me say that men shall rise up and persecute
you for that which ye shall tell them. I say I have heard
their plans already. The conspire in their smallness. They
say: Let us discredit them; vilely they speak of spiritual
things, having no knowledge of God as we see Him.
These men are not vicious. They are children without con­
cept of divinity. Nevertheless, they have ideals; they strive
without surcease to protect them. I say, I have suffered
from them myself and know the plannings of their hearts
by my experience.
Beloved, ye be coming to events in your lives when men shall
say: These people have power not given to us by Nature,
therefore are they evil; let us rend and make away with
them lest they defile our sanctuaries by that which they
perform.
I tell you they are children who do fear the unseen; they
shun the unknown in that it disturbeth the course of their
affairs. They are not open to censure, beloved. They are
open to Truth! Manifesting as ye shall manifest, I say be
of stout hearts. Ye shall be saved from any earthly assaults
upon your lives, having permanent damage in them.
Others shall attack you, having knowledge thereby that they
can profit in purse by compromising you. I say, confusion
shall come to them; they shall be rebuked. I say, be consid­
erate and advising and tolerant and generous. They will see
your good works and make easy your pathways. Others shall
179
come making demands on you for services, and when ye com-
in your careers and not of Truth.
Beloved, I say to you, let not your hearts be troubled. We
have a mission together that encompasseth the world. The
earth is your workshop; human souls are your tools; life’s
purposes your materials. Goodly sculptures shall arise within
that workshop, attesting that my beloved are again among
men manifesting.
Seemeth this foolish when uttered this hour? Harken, hark­
en! W e come unto the Father with accounting of goodly
deeds performed in flesh. Arise and take your heritage of
Truth. Understanding is your portion. Men already say
to me, Master, give us more of those who speak this truth.
Let me tell you, the world waiteth for word of that which
ye have in your hearts to give to surfeit.
my words. I have spoken before and ye have
Verily honors come again to you; increments shall be your
portion; ye have my word that I comfort and sustain you;
My servants are your servants, they stand about you thickly
and protect you from fell thinkers; ye are visited by goodly
workers who make felt their presence. Ye be coming to mani­
festation of a different order than that which hath been given
you to date. Be not alarmed nor yet concerned by that which
happeneth. Great visitations may be made to you suddenly,
visitations of whiteness that have meaning in that whiteness.
Figures move that seem supernal. Lo, ye look up and visions
ply in love they shall seek to ensnare you in phrases con­
founding you, to tell the righteous that ye are of strategy
I. Verily that came to pass which I spake.
180
have reality. I tell you that when such Light visiteth you, ye
be tapping the unseen of Mortal Eye and looking into realms
that mean eternal spirit. Verily ye shall witness it.
Men are alarmed by little fears, in that they have not the
power to triumph over them. Men are alarmed with little
fears in that they are little and it showeth them their weak­
nesses of flesh. Big fears, such as cataclysms, disclose their
littleness as well. I tell you that little fears are as rodents
gnawing at the ropes by which men climb to heaven.
Know that men have always a fear that what they fear is
mere illusion. Know that men do fear illusion in that it hid-
eth the pitfall behind it. Cometh one to you saying: Lo, I
am your friend, I guide you around the pitfall. You ac­
cept his service. H e feareth no illusion and goeth forth
strong in confidence that Might hath become his portion.
I tell you, he is strong who saith: Illusion is a friend that
hideth the pitfall for some, but giveth me courage to pene­
trate that which is beyond it.
I am he who penetrateth the illusion of Death for human­
kind. Lo, it thinketh Death a pitfall, or that a pitfall hideth
around it. I take such by the hand and say: Come with me,
go through the illusion and beyond the pitfall.
Lo, men hide their heads. They say: Master, we fear no
pitfall in that thou art leading: I say: Bow down to your­
selves and worship: lo, ye have power to sidestep many pit-
falls, being strong in confidence that naught lieth behind
them to bring you harm.
Y e have heard it said that men are alarmed at small noises
but terror cometh not at great. This is the reason: Lo, little
whisperings distract them; great symphonies have power to
181
raise them to ecstasies; great thunders bespeak majesties;
great noises portend earth’s manifesting in cataclysm— yet
men do not blanch, knowing others suffer with them.
But small noises speak to the separate heart alone within
its closet. Men have, each one of them, a devil: some rela­
tive who is displeased, some person who hateth him for visit­
ing favors on the fortunate. Some persons see advantages
to be gained by vilely obsessing their brethren in flesh. Is
it not true that men have tempted one another for hire?
Would they not tempt one another for spite? I say such
men come unto their brethren in silence and whisper to them
of dire calamities, of pitfalls and quicksands, of lions ahead.
Lo, the spirit quaketh; the heart taketh pause. Vibration
lowereth. Man is seized with terror. Presently he fleeth.
I say unto you, beloved, that great sights and great noises
have no power over individual terrors, for lo, suffering borne
with others loseth half its sting. But small fears at small
whisperings have power to wreck the stoutest heart, for a
man then feeleth no strength except his own.
182
Chapter V II
BACK T O A STR O N O M Y
T IS A FTER the nature of Inner Recordings
that they should constantly exhibit the ten­
dency to move away from the mechanical
construction of this engineered universe,
commonly labeled the materialistic, and con­
cern themselves the more spontaneously with spiritual declen­
sions as they exert their influences on developing man. Our
last sacred paper was typical of such performance. What
Light is, and how it functions, seems subordinate in impor­
tance to Spirit’s employment of it or benefit from it. As
in a hundred addresses on allied themes, the emphasis is
put unmistakably on the hypothesis that the universe was
made for man and not man for the universe, or rendering
it nearer the accurate, that the inorganic universe is only
of consequence in the agenda of true reality when it is con­
sidered as an adjunct or corollary of the marvel of develop­
ing Consciousness. That man in his current mortality is one
exhibit of such Consciousness so performing, neither adds to,
nor detracts from, the idea in its essence.
Great physicists like Eddington, Jeans, Millikan, Cameron,
Regena, Zwicky, and Bruggencate, examine a nebula whose
183
light has taken 50,000,000 years to reach us traveling at
186,000 miles per second, or they examine a sun that is los­
ing weight at the rate of 250 million tons a minute— and will
still require millions and millions of years to exhaust itself—
or they probe into the composition of the atom and measure
electrons that can be set in motion with speeds of more than
a hundred thousand miles per second, and the phenomenon
of common two-legged man, walking at four miles an hour,
not being able to jump more than four feet off the surface of
his earth, requiring garments to protect him from both cold
and heat, eating food three times a day—and procuring it
mostly by some sort of fighting— finally being squashed out
like a grub after sixty or seventy years, doesn’t stack up to
such scientific minds as being of more than mechanical con­
sequence. The material insignificance of man’s life-arena
in space— a millionth part of a grain of sand out of all the
sea-sand in the world when considering the earth in relation
to Cosmos—and the seeming mechanical indifference of N a­
ture to life like our own, with emotions, ambitions, achieve­
ments, arts, religions, and what-not, tends toward the accept­
ance in mortal mind that conscious planetary life cannot be
much beyond an accidental combination of chemical and elec­
trical elements. Intellect cannot escape the capricious notion
that man as thinking mortal considers himself of importance
only by his ignorance of the stupendous world beyond him.
Men’s very sanity makes them do this; it is evidence of their
rationality. It is not that they have become awed by size,
distance, mass, or speed, demonstrated in the universe but
apprehended in the abstract. Rather have they beheld as­
pects of the universe and its mechanics so very much more
184
intricate than man, and raised above him in his voluntary
performance, that they can’t get excited over the tenet that
these have happened for man’s enhancement. That would
fall in the same class with the conclusion of the ant that
has crawled upon the runningboard of an automobile and
been transported a score of miles, that because the auto­
mobile has so conveyed it, automobiles were invented that
ants might profit. Then there is another aspect of the astro­
nomical universe not commonly known to humankind, that
causes it to wonder where man gets his idea of cosmic im­
portance. That is the rarity of planetary system throughout
the explored universe, whereon life can be sustained at all . .
ATFIR ST glance, such item would seem to score for
bombastic man and not for dispassionate scientist, but
not when taking into account the element of accident as the
scientist interprets it. Life of the kind we know here on
earth could only originate on planets like our own. It needs
suitable physical conditions for its appearance, the most im­
portant of which is a temperature at which substances can
exist in solid, liquid, and gaseous states at pretty much the
same time. The stars are disqualified for this sort of thing
by being too hot. Jeans says in one place: "H eat an ordinary
six-inch cannon ball up to 50 million degrees, which is the
kind of temperature we expect to find at the center of our
sun or the average star, and the radiation it emits would be
sufficient to mow down— by its mere impact, like the jet
of water from a fire hose— anyone who approached within
fifty miles of it.” And yet, in between these vast collections
of firebrands scattered through space, exists cold that is
185
only four degrees above absolute zero, about 484 degrees of
frost on our Fahrenheit thermometers. Incidentally, these
individual firebrands of heat are so far apart as compared to
one another that if we thought of only two ships on all the
oceans of our earth, sailing as far apart as they could chart
their courses, they would still be closer to each other than
are common stars in the immensities of space.
Life as we know it can only exist within a narrow temperate
zone which surrounds each of these firebrands at a specified
distance. Outside these zones it would be frozen to extinc­
tion; inside of them it would be heated to a gas. At a rough
estimate, these life-zones, all added together, constitute less
than a thousand million-millionth part of the whole of space.
And even inside them, life must be of extremely rare occur­
rence, for it is so unusual an "accident” for a sun to attract
or throw off planets and yet hold them in an orbit, that it
seems probable that but one of them in a hundred thousand
has done so.
It is this immensity of the universe far away and beyond
anything that can possibly concern man as a living earthly
creature, that causes orthodox scholars to doubt that the
universe can possibly have been projected to provide life like
our own. They declare that if it were so, we should have
expected to find a better proportion between the magnitude
of the mechanism and the amount of the product. Anyhow,
one school holds to the hypothesis that as the earth gradually
cooled—whether or not it was pulled out of our sun by the
influence of some passing star or balanced in a solar orbit
after coagulation of energy in a given area of cosmic space
— it was natural and perhaps inevitable that life should ap-
186
pear the moment that physical conditions had been reached
that provided sustaining factors. Another school holds that
after one accident had brought the planet into being, a sec­
ond to produce life was a sort of necessity. Let me quote
Jeans again: "The material constituents of a living body are
perfectly ordinary chemical atoms— carbon such as we find
in soot or lampblack; hydrogen and oxygen, such as we find
in water; nitrogen such as forms the greater part of the at­
mosphere, and so on. Every kind of atom necessary for life
must have existed on the new-born earth. But at intervals,
a group of atoms might happen to arrange themselves in the
way in which they are arranged in the living cell. Indeed,
given sufficient time, they would be certain to do so . . . but
would they then be a living cell? In other words, is a living
cell merely a group of ordinary atoms arranged in some non­
ordinary way, or is it something more? Is it merely atoms,
or is it atoms plus life? Or, to put it in another way, could
a sufficiently skilled chemist create life out of the necessary
atoms, as a boy can create a machine out of Meccano, and
then make it go? We do not know the answer. When it
comes, it will give us some indication whether other worlds
in space are inhabited like ours, and so must have the great­
est influence on our interpretation of the meaning of life.
It may well produce a greater revolution of thought than
Galileo’s astronomy or Darwin’s biology.”
We, of course, are not particularly interested in either of
these "schools.” We are not even interested in the slightest
attempt to reconcile the observations or analyses of "science”
with the observations or analyses offered us from the more
intricate dimensions of Time and Space. But we are most
187
decidedly interested in considering the mechanics of the spa­
tial universe, as determined by the compounding disclosures
of scientific men, in their bearing on the proposition that
the universe has taken form, and substance to some intelli­
gent end, and in that Spirit—whether embodied in physical
man or not— is concerned with it all in the practical manner.
rJ^'HE ERROR committed by the scientific men, or rather,
the oversight they are guilty of, lies in considering Life
to be a mere physical galvanism, or even physical response to
stimuli and naught else. Perhaps we should not be harsh
with them for this, because after all they are physical scien­
tists; they make no bones whatever about confining them­
selves to octaves of phenomena that concern exclusively the
substantial and material. They are like the academician who
might reason: "Yonder is a chair. Nobody is sitting in it.
We perceive nobody anywhere in its vicinity. Therefore be­
cause it is not being utilized, to say that it was constructed
by mortal hands is absurd. We cannot say who owns the
chair, or that anybody owns it. On the whole, its being a
chair unto itself and supplying no service at such time as we
regard it, we are forced to conclude that for some reason un­
known to us it came into existence of itself, as result of
cosmic accident or the capricious combination of protons and
electrons. When we perceive someone coming along and sit­
ting on its seat, or affixing a red tag upon it that states, 'This
belongs to John Smith,’ we shall have our whole notion of
thought revised in a greater revolution than Galileo’s astron­
omy or Darwin’s biology.” While it may be entirely true
that only one heavenly body in a hundred thousand approxi-
188
mates conditions that may sustain life as we know it, it may
be equally sound prediction that life as we know it must have
fresh planets awaiting its pleasure as these conditions disap­
pear through the exhaustion of radiation, while there is the
equally sound assumption that Life can be Life and still
actionize in a thousand million forms, of which man is only
one—man, that is, as a bifurcated organism.
The scientist, no matter how erudite, is circumscribed and
limited by the boundaries of his specialty. Within those
boundaries, his specialty may provide priceless contributions
to a whole cosmic program. And yet it does seem to be a
fact that decade after decade these same scientific specialists
are pushing their boundary lines further and further back, or
opening breaks through them, to gain to the same magnifi­
cent comprehensions as the philosopher-mystic.
Taken by and large, nowhere in our higher-octave informa­
tion do we find the claim made that the universe was made
for man; what we do find is, the higher-octave contention
has it that the universe was made to give conceptions of
form and shape to Consciousness, thereby expanding and
maturing it till it expands and matures the universe in turn—
thus confirming the expanding-universe hypothesis of the sci­
entists, Life as we regard it mortally is but a phenomenon
of this in a rudimentary octave, rendered facile as planetary
conditions either invite or permit. Suns may bum out, worlds
may fuse in collisions and cataclysms. Life itself cannot be
affected essentially by such occurrences because material en­
sembles are but vehicles for its expression while conditions
are auspicious.
As between one sun and another sun, or one planet and a
189
million planets, the expression of life purely as expression
could not be vitally different to the experiencing ego.
A gnat wings in twilight above a moist pasture. What dif­
ference does it make to the gnat whether the pasture be lo­
cated in Massachusetts or Minnesota, or whether the taxes
have been paid upon it by the mortal who holds passing title
to it, or whether construction will begin on it next spring
for a factory? For all we know to the contrary, our sun and
its progeny of planets may have dozens of different names
applied to them by denizens of adjacent planetary systems.
All that we, as expanding and maturing units of Conscious­
ness, need for our enhancement are adequate arenas of exer­
cise and expression. And this purpose the created universe
too obviously serves. If we can occupy one mote of it off
here in our own particular sun-corner, we can occupy any
mote of it, anywhere, that conditions permit. So the whole
expanding universe is our true habitat, and inasmuch as we
deploy throughout it by Possibility, it is inferior to us by
creation. Thereby are we superior to it by Free Will transi­
tion . . . . A man may be the same functioning entity whether
he live in a shanty down across the railroad tracks or in a
mansion on the avenue. At times he might have reason to
flee to a cave in the hills and be sheltered from the elements
by an orifice in rocks. The physical scientist might say that
it is absurd to think that Nature made caves in hills, or open­
ings in rocks, for humanity to occupy when shanties or man­
sions had become untenantable, but what weight would such
argument carry in regarding life as life, using shanty, man­
sion, or cave as circumstances dictated to preserve itself or
survive in comfort?
190
y ^ STR O N O M Y reveals a stupendous array of natural
facts to us, indeed. It supplies us with a concept of
the vastness of Cosmos in which we have attained to func­
tion. It really shows us how prolific and immeasurable the
true Cosmos is, as a guide to the immensities of our possible
development. But where the scientist comes to his boun­
daries and declares "I do not know,” the metaphysician picks
up and says, "Okay, you admit you do not know. Now sup­
pose you listen to me a moment and get the missing evi­
dence by spiritual hypothesis.”
This Obstructed Universe, with which we have such friction­
al contact at the moment, must have come into being at the
behest of Spirit, as our mentors tell us, in order that we
be able to form our idea-concepts and reactively arrive at a
comprehension of ourselves. Probably there are other uni­
verses some fifty or more million light-years away! If they
exist in the same degree of exhaustion of radiation, any
square mile upon one of them undoubtedly resembles the
Widow Jones’ back meadow where we go out with our chil­
dren to fly their kites. But suppose they do? We are not
engaged in the business of kite-flying as any essential develop­
ment in consciousness. We are engaged in the business of
coming to comprehend the infinite possibilities in ourselves,
that we are by no means bifurcated jackasses and naught
else, and that mayhap down a trillion years we will be living
in a dream-castle on Betelgeuse, with doors opening before
us by mere thinking of a thought. Or maybe we in our own
turns shall be gods—mere heads without bodies and showing
no faces— containing the behavior of whole nebulae within
ourselves. If that is the end and aim of spiritual expansion,
191
evolution, and maturity, what of it? Consider the ideas in
the ensuing monograph upon the subject, projected by minds
that have been released from fleshly vehicles. . . .
W ORLDS ARE M A D E T O ORDER
rJ"'H ERE are two ways of looking at the planet on which
you dwell. One is to see it as an orb of radiance in the
sky, reflecting whatever sunlight strikes upon it, endlessly
turning in majestic revolutions that give light and darkness,
containing upon its surface millions upon millions of fleshly
mortals, each with his own program of sensations, the whole
wrapped in baffling mystery as to how it started and what
sustains it. The second is to consider the globe on which you
dwell as a perfect sample of the universe in raw. That is to
say, a perfect sample of the universe as it appears elemental­
ly to beings of the higher orders, containing potentially all
that life has to give any incarnated spirit, eager to impart its
information as spirits are eager to receive. We cannot stress
this latter idea too strongly. Your orb is representative of
all the orbs there are, in whatever plan of creation you choose
to consider. It is no different, except as to size and location
in Cosmos, from any one of a thousand million worlds that
are equally nameless and unidentifiable except for their ob­
served relation to surrounding stars, suns, or planets in space.
You have a perfect representation of the entire universe right
under your feet, its evidences of supernality all around you,
giving you life, food, shelter, nourishment for mind as well
as organs. It is representative of all that is, we say. That
is the beginning and end of everything explanatory. It is
no different from a thousand million suns yet half-formed
193
as to solidity. It is favored and fortunate in that its age is
of just the right length to maintain life as you are accus­
tomed to consider life and to furnish abundance of atmos­
phere and chemical supplies for every type of propagation.
But while we have introduced the subject, there are some
things we wish to tell you about your earth that are neither
commonly known nor spoken. We refer to the peculiar
"freshness” of your earth-world for one thing, in that it is
by no means the senile mass that you find so frequently
taking up space in clumsily charted Cosmos.
Your earth is comparatively recent as to origin, considered
as planets go in celestial age. It is, so to speak, only a few
million millions of years old. It was brought together and
projected long aeons after many of its neighboring bodies
easily distinguishable to mortal eyesight night upon night
in starry heavens. It is not as old as three-fourths of them
thus visible to you. Now, why did it come about?
J T CAM E about, whether or not you care to accept it
literally at this time, because there was distinct need of
it, celestially considered. This seems queer to you, perhaps,
and indeed it is queer that Cosmos as you know it should
actually stand in want of anything. But when we say "want”
we do not mean the kind of necessity that you do in your
human affairs, that is, a distinct type of conjecture that if
you possessed something, you would be eased in the item
of correlated distresses. We mean, forsooth, that it was seen
that peculiar forms of life in this area in Cosmos had to be
brought to specified conditions in order to obtain a definite
result in realization and development. It was possible, of
194
course, to transport them to other arenas of Cosmos and
allow them to breed and develop there. But other arenas
of Cosmos may be just as crowded as to demands upon them
as any city block in a modern metropolis. It was felt that
if a planet of a certain type could be projected within the
arena that was later your earth’s orbit, a sort of superior
congestion in celestial conditions could be relieved.
You must understand that there are always and forever more
souls in Cosmos who want incarnation than the planetary
universe can possibly accommodate, physical conditions on
neighboring planets being what they are. It takes a given
amount of terrain reasonably to support a given number of
fleshly bodies according to times of incarnation, develop­
ment of society in given periods, and facilities for sustaining
them in appropriate conditions, that is, according to the life-
lessons they should learn, or that they may merit learning,
according to the degrees and demands of their expanding
intelligence.
Now worlds do not "just happen.” They are "made to
happen,” your earthly "scientists” to the contrary notwith­
standing. They come about through tremendous impella-
tions of Thought in ether, and when we use the word "tre­
mendous” , we cannot begin to describe to you the import of
its electrical potency. They are usually "spun” into being
by great concentrations of mighty intelligence, acting always
consciously, desiring a result and generally getting it. The
reverse is not always true when worlds have served their pur­
pose and "run down,” that is, lost their properties of radia­
tion and their electrical potency by excessive degrees of
spilling the force that up to a given point has been their
195
mainstay and cement. Time as a mortal factor we can forget.
You simply cannot have a world in any hit-or-miss fashion,
though you can and do have many worlds that go awry in
composition, so to speak. That is, the work expended upon
them by stupendous impellations of Thought does not al­
ways mature into the correct result, or the result which was
expected when their composition was begun. These "fear-
somely made worlds” or worlds which have shown themselves
abortive, strew the Heavens, and are visible to you every
night of the year when the sky is not obscured by clouds.
May we suggest that countless millions of them are merely
"left half-completed,” or abandoned in the process of coagu­
lation, because either the celestial need of them is passed,
or they have not proved worth the effort to carry them to
satisfactory completion. It is these half-finished bodies that
go shooting hither and yon about the sky and cause so many
celestial "accidents” as your scientists describe them. They
also serve to introduce confusion into astronomy and physics.
Your scientists and physicists think that all worlds proceed
to creation according to a definitely functioning law of coagu­
lation or formation. We beg to assure them and you that
nothing could be further from the truth.
Celestial people may have had the idea that a world would
be a good thing to meet given spiritual conditions maintain­
ing in the higher volitions of matter. Or there may have
come and gone great processes of manufacture in celestial
elements that would seem to command usage, precisely as
your industrialist of today might go to excess in producing
one particular brand of goods and wonder how to dispose
of what he had left over. So the attempt is made to bring
196
about a world of a specified pattern, and so long as the work
is consistently pursued and these great thought processes
brought to complete fruition, the result is invariably a planet
such as you have in the item of the solar Earth. But if, as
often does occur, there has been an alteration in the needs
of Cosmos, or there might have been great migrations away
from the arena of Creating Performance so that it does not
seem as imperative to have a particular planet in that par­
ticular spot for the reincarnation of souls, or development
of evolutionary forms along some distinctive line, there will
be an abandonment of the project without getting these mon­
strosities out of the way of the cosmic traffic. Actually they
do very little damage, if the truth could be known, because
there are always blankets of etheric pressure to protect worlds
or planets happening into their pathways.
Y O U R scientists cannot possibly understand such happen­
ings, much less accredit them. N ot having as yet the
key to the creation of all material phenomena in Conscious
Thought, they are ever looking for some strait-laced and
immutable law of the Process, whereas there may be no more
"law” to it than there is law to the caprice of a young gentle­
man intent on showing his lady friend how deftly he can
acquire a basket to hold flowers for her pleasure. There are
ever great cosmic spirits on the job, of course, to take care
of monstrosities of too grandiose a character, or to encour­
age and advise and augment with their own supernal intelli­
gence what seems to be beyond the ken or power of beings
not up to their attainments. But in the main, worlds are the
thought creations of a vast order of spirits who are exercising
197
their own creative godhood in etheric potentials, and when
they do a good job they are as pleased as the workman who
attempts something difficult in craftsmanship on the physi­
cal octave. If they bungle, so much the worse for them
in the matter of suffering a great cosmic chagrin. On the
other hand, the universe can go on expanding forever and
never reach a limit where creation must terminate. Evety
"person” who has lived in flesh could attain to such facility
in creation as to spin an earth a minute out of his own
thought-fecundities—every one of them as sizable and com­
plete as your own particular planet—and the process con­
tinue for a million years without as many heavenly bodies
resulting as are practically in range of your vision when you
take a careless glance at the so-called Milky Way. There is
still ample "room” for creative experiment. Indeed, the ex­
perimenting—after a fashion— is part of the curriculum of
the cosmic classroom, but in an octave so far removed above
the octave of mortality as to make its potencies as unknow­
able as they are at present fantastic.
^ O W heavenly bodies that attain to the status of planets
— that is, bodies with reasonably stabilized orbits—and
that reach a stage where physical life as you are familiar
with it can be sustained upon them, are far from being ex­
periments or bodies abandoned due to faulty integration.
They are worlds that have been turned off with a fair expert­
ness in cosmic craftsmanship. They reveal themselves as
complete, stable, and amply fashioned as to details of cos­
mic architecture. They will sustain life of an evolutionary
character for a definite number of million-year cycles before
198
losing the potencies that hold them in pattern. Each is
marked with the tag of its Maker, if we may employ a term
so commercial when describing a thing so awesome as a
world in construction. And always and forever they have to
be approved— in a manner of expression—by the great
Master Architect.
It is customary for mortals unschooled in the higher cosmic
formulas and processes, to think of all universes, and all
worlds composing them, as being the labor of the one Su­
pernal Deity. If we would correct this, we would say in all
devoutness that instead of universes or worlds being created
by the one Supernal Deity of the Fundamentalists, it is the
creators of such universes—and worlds— who are created by
Him, or, to put it bluntly, under His direction as progenitor
of their essences and capabilities to create anything at all.
Creation is, to a large degree, one of the ultimate attributes
of all spirits when their consciousness has evolved and ex­
panded to that capacity making for understanding and em-
bracement of what is being both attempted and achieved.
Again and again have we put emphasis on this fact in lec­
tures gone before. All creatures who are essentially divine
as man is divine— though still embryonic in his exercise of
such divinity— are capable of creating by thought. Indeed,
there is no other way by which creation comes about. Crea­
tion is Thought, and Thought is Creation. If one of them,
having arrived at the proper grasp of the process as it ex­
presses through himself, can fashion and project so much
as one wisp of thistle-fluff, he can equally fashion and project
a whole planet in entirety. That is, assuming his mentality
is expanded to conceive its every detail. How foolish and
199
unwarranted to say that a creative mind capable of materi­
alizing a wisp of thistle-fluff, could not—if he were big
enough mentally—achieve a whole constellation of suns and
satellites fashioned in a certain way. It would all be decided
by the amount of mentality involved— and expertness in
handling etheric and electrical elements. Who shall say that
an expanding and maturing mortal spirit may create a flower
and then at some point along his progress of development
be abruptly prohibited from creating a planet, a sun, a star
like Arcturus?
O f course, in practical working out of the cosmic formula,
any spirit thus mentally capable of such creation has long
since matured to reaches of attainments out of touch with
mortal infanthood. But the formula applies. Usually, how­
ever, we tell you that worlds such as you are familiar with,
come about through evidence of distinct need, and are
brought to reality by vast congregations of constructive-
minded entities, spinning electrical potentials into action as
we have suggested in previous discourses, guiding and shap­
ing them to attain to the pattern first projected by the great
Master Architect, and maintaining a sort of supernal over­
sight of their creations after they have reached the life-
sustaining stage. And, incidentally, it is entirely possible
and rational that the "leader” of such a group of creative
world-protagonists should be capable, on occasion, of incar­
nating in "the grinding and groaning of physical atoms” —
in other words, a mortal mechanism— to arrive at some out­
standing spiritual exposition. . . .
200
J^ H E P O IN T we would register in this discourse is, that
when your scientists and physicists look to the atomic
structure of the universe and wonder that similar causations
— or what appear to be such— do not always work out, even
under identical conditions, to similar results, they are in­
hibited in their understanding by lack of this enlightenment;
that they allow of no roles in the cosmic drama for the com­
petent or incompetent Performing Minds that give impella-
tion to such phenomena. Your scientists and physicists say,
"W e cannot commonly see such entities at work, or collab­
orate with them at their business consciously, so we refuse to
accredit their existence or responsibility.” And refusing to
accredit their existence or responsibility, such scientists and
physicists are at a loss to account for variations in results.
Slowly indeed are they coming to acknowledge the ingredi­
ent "M ” in their equations— "M ” standing for Mind, which
hitherto has been ignored. But until they acknowledge the
ingredient Specific and Individualistic Mind, even though
acting in concert with others, they will remain at a loss and
be playing with faulty formulas. This can introduce a con­
dition, of course, where scientists may say, "Then we can
never determine constants for use in our profession, inas­
much as we can never codify the caprices or capacities of in­
dividualistic minds” ; and in a measure they will be correct.
But what of that? They are admitting the same at present,
even though they do not yet name the "defaulting” factors.
All of which is saying conversely that to understand even the
least wonder in creation, it is first necessary to become adept
in the Processes at work behind wonders. The day will come,
we tell you, when the truly accomplished and erudite "sci-
201
entist” will be the truly accomplished and erudite meta­
physician. It was so of ancient days—the Golden Age or
earthly paradise that now is remembered only as myth and
fable. But it will be so again. It is bound to be so again,
due to the advances which science is making straight into the
heart of Progressive Esoterics!
202
Chapter V III
A R T ISA N S A T W ORLDS
T M A Y be grasped now, perhaps, why I
have published these Recordings in the center
of this book, before we had scratched the
surface of astronomy and energy which ac­
counted for the Coming of Earth at the
start. I wanted to make it appear plausible that there could
be such a thing as the adept mortal being capable of accom­
plishing materialization—another name for Creation— in
smaller instances on this plane, in order that the business of
universes or planets’ being created to order from a higher
plane might not appear altogether fantastic.
The nation contains thousands of persons who have wit­
nessed materializations in seance rooms of psychical research
societies. Other thousands have had experience of so-called
apports, wherein it has appeared that solid objects have been
disintegrated, their light-patterns conveyed to a distance, and
such disintegrations reversed, the light-patterns being
"coated” with etheric properties and the objects resuming
the substantiality of their former states. "How” such phe­
nomena are accomplished is not pertinent at the moment:
the significance of such processes lies in the fact that they
203
are accomplished; and if matter can be composed or manipu­
lated to arrive at the stupendous' concoction that is known
as a planet, would the latter be much more miraculous than
the former in essence of performance, though vaster quan­
tities and varieties of substance might be involved, projected
by entities who have correspondingly mightier capabilities
in the higher celestial octaves?
Ordinary mortals, having little or no experience with these
stupendous fundamentals in day-to-day affairs, accept as
foregone conclusion that only one God created everything
and it is heresy and impiety to dare to think otherwise. They
do not possess the slightest familiarity with the processes
of materialization, or the levitation of an apport in a seance
room. They accept the universe of solids which they observe
around them, have no practical concern in the causes which
make one material different from another, and are too busy
the clock around providing for the demands of existence,
raising families, paying taxes, and managing to keep out of
jail, to care two shakes of the rear appendage of an infant
sheep how their planetary home came about, why it con­
tinues revolving, or what will be the end of it. True, most
of them assume that on quitting this life they will be in­
ducted eventually into some higher existence, but aside from
naming it Heaven, believing it to be located somewhere
above the clouds, and that most of their former loved ones
have attained to it, they don’t give three thoughts to it from
Monday to Saturday. Tell them, or attempt to tell them,
that the concerted endeavors of vast hordes of supernal be­
ings could have been responsible for this planet’s creation,
that the same hordes may have responsibility for keeping it
204
in functioning prosperity, and that stupendous as well as
intricate "natural processes”— not to mention the current
vicissitudes of human society—may be naught but continu­
ing guardianship by such beings, and they will either declare
that you are trying to introduce them to notions of pagan­
ism or they will wonder if your brains haven’t tragically
worked loose and whether a fancy assortment of wrenches
mightn’t be appropriate as a birthday gift in order that you
may tighten your mental nuts.
It makes no difference if you would have them conceive that
maybe the great God of orthodox theology is more probably
the "creator” of these supernal hordes to start with, thereby
establishing His claims to universal paternity without the
petty concernments that would attend upon the literal pro­
prietorship of a literal Cosmos.
They want their God all in one personage, omnipotent and
omnipresent, titanic enough to produce the nebulae in An­
dromeda yet personal enough to frown on the antics of the
Jones woman next door who entertains the fullerbrush man
overlong of afternoons and drinks a case of beer a week to
the noise of ribald television.
And yet, whence have come those notions in every age, and
amongst every people, of gods and goddesses, of espousing
or counseling "spirits,” of "white lodges,” of "goodly com­
panies,” of all the benevolent assemblies of anthropomorphic
deities whose accepted existence has consoled or inspired
mankind up cycles of generations? Why do the findings of
psychical research confirm and sustain a consistent agenda
of hyperdimensional society, and the practices of occultism
all too frequently conjure up elemental forces whose seeming
205
intelligence is more to be feared than examined? The true
philosopher must consider not only the determinations of
progressing science, but the phenomena of metaphysics that
cannot be dismissed in the apathies of ignorance.
I recall, one Sabbath afternoon in my younger manhood,
standing for the better part of an hour before a pool at the
edge of which a brace of woodcock were preening. I was
close enough to examine the beauty of design worked out
in colored feathers on heads and breasts. The splendorful
artistry displayed in the filigree wrought a sense of awe in my
observant consciousness. Who had conceived such skill and
loveliness? Could I possibly accept that it had happened by
chance? What transcendent engraver not only wrought such
gorgeous delicacy of design but decreed its unerring dupli­
cation on each succeeding brood of fowl? "Here,” I
thought, "is God in exhibition of His reality, quite as much
as in the grandeur of the spiral Canes Venatici.”
Today my concepts are altered. I behold the same Deity, not
in the woodcock’s plumage as an exhibit, nor even in the pre­
cise and perpetual duplication of its feathered adornment,
but in the unremitting Intelligence and its ceaseless applica­
tion that is thereby demonstrated; and the fact that it, as
well, must have had to possess an origin.
It taxes my mental ingenuity to conceive of an anthropo­
morphic deity who attends to the composition of spiral nebu­
lae far out in space on the one hand, and designs the filigree
on the necks of earthly woodcocks, generation after genera­
tion, on the other. It does not tax my ingenuity to conceive
of a Creator who has either fashioned or empowered vast
hordes of transcendent spirits in Cosmos, whose offices are
206
either to materialize nebulae or do the art work on a bird’s
breast; furthermore, it would seem to be the sensible and
practical way for Him to operate.
Surely the universe cannot be a cosmic factory in which the
One Proprietor personally manipulates all the productive
machinery, and not only meets the front-office payrolls but
stays in the basement and fires the boilers as well.
It does not detract from the grandeur of the Supreme Being
to consider that He may have sired billions of entities crea­
tive in their own right; to my way of thinking it adds to
such grandeur. It would appear to me as the greater achieve­
ment to create the Intelligence that puts the pigment on a
pansy, than to create either pigment or flower, by Himself.
Furthermore, it elevates God to the more majestic status of
over-souling supervisor, while at the same time correcting
the delusion that the Almighty projects trillions of spirit-
souls into Cosmos and callously abandons them with nothing
for them to do but react to conditions already provided.
Society is filled with fanatical fundamentalists who will
damn as blasphemous any suggestion that the orthodox God
did not make everything, or that capability for making
things can possibly belong to anyone but God. Making
things— "creating” as we term it—must be strictly and solely
the monopoly of Jehovah as a potentate.
Yet the same purists would ignore the fact that probably
in all the history of the mundane world there has never been
a single instance of the Almight’s creating such an object
as, say, a desk for a business office, or a steel letter file to
hold papers, or a motorcar or an airplane, or a television re­
ceiving set.
207
Human carpenters working with tools have made all the
desks of creation; human steelmakers have stamped out and
welded all the steel letter files; human engineers have
fashioned the motorcars, the airplanes, and the radio re­
ceiving sets.
The fundamentalists protest, "Yes, but God made the wood
and steel first! And doubtless the carpenters and the steel­
workers and the engineers labored under divine inspiration,
so really these are but instruments of the original creating
God.”
My contradicting contention is that concocting materials
such as wood or steel is one thing, and selecting and utilizing
such materials to make an object like a desk, is quite an­
other. And the two have no relation. The wood selected
to be used for the making of a desk might have been utilized
for the making of a bed, a door, the cupola on a cow bam.
W hat could God have had to do with these?
Shall we cry Blasphemy! that the carpenter, steelworker, or
engineer, decides on the nature of the substances entering
into his desk-automobile-radio concoction; or contend that
it is "wicked” for these artisans to saw or rivet or weld, of
themselves, instead of piously taking their ease and waiting
for the Almighty to get around to the exercise of His mo­
nopoly of creating and fashioning a desk, letter file, motor­
car, or whatnot for them, all at one time and in the single
gesture?
O f course the religious purist is not willing to go that far.
So I come at him with my second challenge, and ask what
the difference may be, for a carpenter to select wood and
fashion a desk, or for a group of spirits to take the corn-
208
binations of atoms that effect wood as a substance and pro­
duce a virgin forest upon a thousand miles of planet?
What is the difference between a steelworker’s taking a sheet
of metal and cutting and welding it into a modern fireproof
file, and a group of spirits’ taking a trillion trillion tons of
the etheric properties composing iron ore and projecting
them into the phenomenon of a sun-girdling planet?
Wherein does it cease to be blasphemous or infamous to take
materials and "materialize” a desk—something that exists
nowhere in Nature— yet become blasphemous or infamous
to employ etheric properties and materialize the substances
that go to realize the desk?
The modern chemist or physicist goes into his laboratory
every day in the year and works out combinations of etheric
properties that give him "synthetic” materials in test tube
and retort, and scarcely one fundamentalist in all society sug­
gests he be indicted for usurping prerogatives belonging to
the Creator.
And what is such chemist or physicist doing, but repeating
precisely the same achievement that the "mystical” horde
of planet-creating "spirits” may be doing in the higher­
dimensional hypothesis of producing a solar satellite?
Being arbitrary about these matters is something we may do
in the priggishness of ignorance.
In all logic, what incarnate spirit-soul may do in the crea­
tive way on this octave of existence, should be performed as
well by discarnate spirit-souls in more elevated octaves of
existence.
Thus do we arrive at a rational basis for the Over-Soul
Idea so often encountered in philosophy and esoterics. The
209
components of the Over-Soul in each instance may exhibit
the more intricate and masterful capabilities; but what has
that to do with the program-process throughout the universe
as a whole?
W h e n , therefore, we encounter the extraordinary state­
ment that this planet on which we dwell may not have
been exactly exercised into reality by the one Master Mind
but by a group of Superior Minds endowed by the original
Master Mind with abilities to fashion a planet as a car­
penter fashions a desk, and for sundry evolutionary reasons
best known to themselves, the statement should not appear
so extraordinary as it shapes up at first.
If the East Indian pundit can "materialize” a ticket, giving
him transportation on a British-Indian railroad, to the extent
that pundits are usually carried free in India rather than
introduce confusion into the railroad’s accounting system,
the same pundits should be capable of materializing a ton
of the tagboard on which tickets are printed. If one of them
can materialize a ton of tagboard, he ought to be able to
materialize as many tons as this planet is "heavy,” that is,
if he had any use for it.
At what point in such performance is he stopped, therefore,
and exactly by what?
Probably in the case of each Indian mystic, the arrestment
is due to the limitations of his thinking and concentrating,
being still under mortal handicap. But rendered discarnate,
and owning to no limitations on his thinking and concen­
trating—moreover being joined by millions of spirit-souls
similarly endowed and willing to operate with him for some
210
highly constructive purpose that serves the ends of Cosmos—
why must we not entertain an acceptance that the Indian
pundit’s synthetic ticket can be expanded— as the product
of a process— to a seemingly complete and "ageless” planet?
Or look at the synthetic-ticket materialization the other way
around— that is, microscopically. Suppose that on a syn­
thetic ticket thus produced by a thought manipulation of
the protons and electrons entering into couple of square
inches of paper pulp, infinitesimally small but reasoning
spirit-souls came into some form of residential incarnation.
Suppose we imagine them as exclaiming to one another,
"Who made the ticket-world on which we dwell? Is it not
the utmost blasphemy to regard this pundit in any other
aspect than that of God Almighty, or to say that tickets
come about in any other manner than by the thinking in
His brain?”
Our concepts in these matters, verily, are shaped or circum­
scribed by the form tones in our restraints in Consciousness
for, or at, any given moment in eternity in which it exercises.
And why need we pick quarrel with Cosmos for that?
What we do need to pick as a quarrel is the controversy
with Orthodoxy, that the moment we proceed mentally or
scientifically beyond fundamentalist acceptances, we must be
entering the domain of either God or the devil.
The fact of the matter is that we are always and forever
in the domain of God as exercising entities ourselves, capa­
ble of self-awareness and self-determination; and whether we
fashion a desk, a letter file, a motorcar, an airplane, a radio
receiving set, a synthetic railroad ticket, a chemical com­
pound, the filigree on a duck’s breast, or a stupendous aggre-
211
gation of "natural” forces such as the nebulae Andromeda,
our performance is identical; the character, or quantity, or
diversity of our product, would seem to be determined purely
by the degree of our spiritual unfoldment . . .
J SU B M IT these propositions, not as any gesture in meta­
physical audacity, but as a gesture in rational assimilation
of science’s most recent discoveries, wedded to certain prob­
abilities of truth in addresses like the one that began on
Page one-eighty-three.
Science would have it that worlds come into being by some
mechanical or automatic process, a sort of planetary biology,
that results from accidental combinations of atoms, or the
presence of natural energy in space finding a way of under­
going harnessing.
Yet already the more courageous and conscientious scientists
are asking themselves: "W hat energizes or galvanizes such
mechanics? If they are orderly processes, and reasonably
constant, they display the concernment of intelligence in
their exercise; and can intelligence be mechanical or auto­
matic and naught else? We know it’s not true in the human
exercise; why should it be confined to the celestial and
cosmic?”
Take the great basic mystery in atomic energy. Jeans says,
"It is known that the atoms of radium, and of other radio­
active substances, disintegrate into atoms of lead and helium
with the mere passage of time, so that a mass of radium
continually diminishes in amount, being replaced by lead
and helium. The law which governs the rate of diminution
is very remarkable. The amount of radium decreases in pre-
212
cisely the same way as a population would if there were
no births, and it had a uniform death rate which was the
same for every individual regardless of his age. Or again,
it decreases in the same way as the numbers of a battalion
of soldiers who are exposed to absolutely random, undirected
fire. In brief, old age appears to mean nothing to the indi­
vidual radium atom; it does not die because it has lived its
life, but rather because in some way, fate knocks at the door.
To take a concrete illustration, suppose that our room con­
tains two thousand atoms of radium. Science cannot say how
many of these will survive after a year’s time. It can only
tell us the relative odds in favor of the number being 2,000
or 1,999, or 1,998, and so on; the probabilities are in favor
of one, and only one, of the two thousand atoms breaking
up within the next year. But we do not know in what way
this particular atom is selected out of such two thousand!
We may at first feel it will be the atom that gets knocked
about most, or gets into the hottest places, or what not, in
the coming year. Yet this cannot be, for if blows or heat
could disintegrate one atom, they could disintegrate the other
1,999 and we should be able to expedite the disintegration
of radium by compressing it or heating it up. Every physi­
cist believes this to be impossible; he rather believes that
every year fate knocks at the door for one radium atom in
every two thousand and compels it to break up; this is the
hypothesis of spontaneous disintegration advanced by Ruther­
ford and Soddy in 1903.”
What have we here but some sort of intelligent and conscious
subtraction of that particular atom that "dies” and thereby
alters radium into lead and helium, since "selection” of one
213
in each two thousand has been effected without extinction or
alteration in the others.
By die same token, in another mundane field, leaves fall
from trees in the autumn. Amid all the thousands of leaves
on a full-sized maple tree, there is just one leaf that is going
to fall first, and another leaf that is going to fall last. What
selects precisely those two leaves? If "conditions” exist with­
in the tree determining those two leaves, why do they not
apply to all leaves equally, and hence why do not maple
trees shed their leaves all at one instant—like a person let­
ting his robe fall floorward from his shoulders before step­
ping into his bath? Commonly we know that leaves are
loosed from the tree’s branches and sent scurrying earthward
by autumnal winds; the leaf that is "weakest” in its adher­
ence to the branch, separates first. But what makes one par­
ticular leaf weak in its adherence and another so strong that
it remains as the last to disconnect? Some variant is at
work, we say, too infinitesimal to measure and probably of
no practical use if it could be evaluated.
Apply the idea of a vague form of individualized conscious­
ness to the tree, under some sort of sponsoring over-soul
group, and the phenomenon of the first and last leaves on
the tree or of the one disintegrating radium atom assumes
significance by no means mechanical. .
S° O U R last Revelation implied that this great solar
planet known as Earth was wrought out of etheric prop­
erties by an aggregation of supernal "creating” carpenters,
steelworkers, and engineers, to serve a specific purpose that
was of moment in this peculiar and distinctive arena of cos-
214
mic time and space— something no Bible writer suspected.
Assuming for the moment that there is truth in such premise,
we are not so much concerned in this present volume with
finding out what that specific purpose was, as we are in
determining the nature or character of the stupendous inte­
gration, and whatever we can of the processes accomplishing
it. Just "why” such a planet was needed, and what pur­
poses it has served, properly belongs to the Soulcraft volume
entitled Star Guests.
Our concernments within this present pair of covers are re­
stricted to these: (1) That there was a requirement for the
planet or it would not have been materialized; (2) That
dormant energy existing in free space— otherwise labeled
Etheric Properties— was acted upon by a masterful and con­
trolling convulsion in higher-dimensional Consciousness,
starting the rotation of atoms that ultimately jelled into our
globe of the present; (3) That the pattern cast in Light ac­
quired substance as etheric properties accomplished Form;
(4) That after untold millennia, conditions were effected
permitting residence on its surface of Life as we know it—
that is, spiritual essences operating in biological organisms
for stated periods in order to grasp the fecundities of exist­
ence in octaves where obstructing substance and form are
not of consequence.
The ultra-practical profits to be taken from such considera­
tions are these: (1) That the planet on which we find our­
selves ensconced in fleshly bodies is by no means any cosmic
"accident” ; (2) That our lives as Lives are projected, irre­
spective of our situation in cosmic locality, to advance us
spiritually to greater celestial concepts; (3) That God did
215
not birth this globe and then depart for Andromeda or some
other congealing world and leave this solar sphere to run it­
self in response to dispassionate and inviolable "laws” ; (4)
That the life of our planet and every mobile creature on it,
is watched over, supervised, ordered and conserved by the
identical master-souls that would seem to have been respon­
sible for the planet’s realization in the first place; and that
it is their eternal obligation to continue such minute and
conscientious guardianship till the last purpose has been
served and the existence of the final gnat in sunset has been
ended.
In other words, the Great Consolation that we derive from
such studies as we are pursuing now, is this: That we have
no more been abandoned to the harsh and impersonal proc­
esses of Nature, and callously left to make our own tragic
way through the mundane universe with its cosmic barbed
wire and psychological pitfalls, than a babe born of a loving
mother, is deserted to its own fortunes once it has been de­
livered and the umbilical cord severed. The same great horde
of manufacturing Beings that have projected this awesome
planetary contrivance, seem to be held to its splendorful
guardianship, and no matter how many of them take a Sun­
day afternoon off to design the filigree on the breast of a
woodcock, such artistic caprice by no means alters the sterner
obligation to see the drama of human life through to con­
cluding curtain . .
Again lets see what Higher Mentors have to contribute to it?
216
T H E TH IN K IN G -G A M E OF CO SM O S
J)E A R L Y Beloved Brethren in Mortality: We come in­
structing you in that which is abstruse; we make known
to you as we can, the higher mysteries in Time and Space,
and the world which troubles you on account of its terrible
reality.
Man sees only one world at a time. That is to say, the
extension of his consciousness limits itself to one octave at
a time.
H e may conceive of other octaves impersonally and academ­
ically, but while ensconced in flesh in any period, man per­
ceives the features and distinguishments and even the trage­
dies of that octave only, that he may know its requirements
for the enhancement of spirit and spiritual unfoldment.
Do not be confused here. There are octaves and octaves
to infinity.
While beginning at the beginning, encased in the material
form, we do not know how far they proceed, how finely they
perform, how intricate their mechanisms.
We do know that the great mass of Matter composing all
the worlds, all the stars and suns and planetary systems,
seems to us in our more tenuous form and aspects of the
present, to be the lowest-grade materializations of thought.
Man himself starts at that lowest grade, or rather, he in­
vokes himself, as spirit, into that coarsest and most common
aspect of Thought in concrete maneuver for product, and
217
in such role, he states it that he has been bom into flesh.
But "bom into flesh” is not quite the case. Gone into M a­
teriality, in order to know the escapements, in due time,
from materiality, would be the more nearly accurate way of
putting it. Now why does man do this?
It would seem at first glance that if the worlds were all
Thought, in the commonly accepted definition of thought—
even all God-Thought—that man himself would only require
to "think the thought” of being in or out of the materialistic
condition, and the more mundane purposes of physical ex­
istence would have been served.
Why does man not do this? Why does ‘he watch and wait
as eternal spirit until this octave or that octave in the Di­
vine Ensemble offers him opportunity for entrance as func­
tioning organism, and then proceed to divest himself of his
garments of materiality within a few years after he has
achieved such incarnation, in order to escape the very condi­
tions which at first he is so eager to experience?
It would seem that man sickens of his bargain with flesh
quickly, or that he does not know his own spirit-mind, to
stay and profit from a condition once he had been given op­
portunity to know it.
But no! There is a different and greater principle at work.
Man does not merely "think a thought about his own condi­
tion” and precipitate it abstractly for his improvement, so-
called, instead of "going into a world and becoming a sub­
jective part of it,” because the vision known as a God-
Thought bears almost no resemblance to a vision known as
a man-thought.
A God-Thought is always creative, experimental though such
218
creation may be. That is to say, when God thinks, worlds
move, laws are installed, conditions making for constructive
changes are forced into operation, the Universe itself moves
in some form or aspect. All of creation galvanizes, at least.
But when man thinks, he parrots the form of the thing but
not the substance. Man cannot, in his present development
— or lack of it—project his own thought-world and populate
it with himself or any number of lesser creations than him­
self, because man as yet mistakes idea-beholdings or regard-
ings, for thought processes.
To be cognizant within his own spirit, of the details or merits
of an idea which has been transferred into his consciousness
from external fields or arenas is man’s concept of thinking in
itself.
Man has yet to learn that thinking actually is Making
Things Go!— that is, integrating cosmic elements into ele­
ments of substantiality, shaping substantiality to some prac­
tical utility of self-regarding spirit.
Man’s whole regard, at the present stage of his evolution
toward those higher realities and accomplishments which for
want of a better word we term godhood, is for looking after
himself in an objective and not a subjective world.
Man in his present stage regards the universe as a vast hall
of occupancy, a place in which to reside as something apart
from the fixtures, to have experience of obstruction— or
things behaving themselves after their own natures and apart
from man’s wishes or expectancies— that he may first of all
get himself in hand in his own conceivings and acceptings.
He must know what he is, himself, before he can do any­
thing with himself, to put it in homely expression. He must
219
take the objective viewpoint, or have it shown to him by trial
and error experiencings with the Matter and its forms that
God has "thought,” before he can1begin to grasp what can
possibly be meant by Subjectivity in thought processes giving
him externalized product.
jSJO W Y O U look about you on a starry night, and you
see millions of worlds, seas of universes, billions of con­
stellations, stars, suns, and planets to infinity, so many of
them apparent in some localities as to become mere smears
of radiance to your vision, such as the illumination that you
call the Milky Way. You say to yourselves: "How can we
upon this tiny planet Earth possibly have any significance in
this massive universe—even this corner of it which astrono­
mers say that we occupy— that we should consider ourselves
beholden to some Greater Spirit to deliver ourselves to an
ultimate Godhood? Are there not enough Gods already,
and are they not filling all space with their creations? What
is achieved by endless addition to this eternal creating, and
what purpose shall it serve?”
The point we would register with you is, it does not so much
serve a purpose, as advance a project that is itself Reality.
If there were not a Going-On, a titanic continuity, a ma­
jestic Pressure From Behind, the whole would suddenly cease
to exist, fantastic as this concept may appear at first
utterance.
Look at.it in this way: A thought, to be a thought—any
sort of thought—can only be called such while it is in process
of thinking. Stop the thinking and the thought stops, in so
far as the consciousness entertaining it is concerned. An
220
idea may exist to eternity without a mind to entertain it,
and a simple illustration will show how this could be so. Let
us suppose that a common football game on your earth-plane
were suddenly halted by some sort of celestial catastrophe
that removed every player and every spectator. The football
itself would be left abandoned in the center of the field,
never to be used as a football again. So long as its materials
remained in integration, it would still be the idea of a foot­
ball and never, down a thousand millennia, would it ever be
the idea of a washtub, or a rose, or a steamroller. O f course,
all the human minds being gone which entertained it as the
idea of a football, it could never again serve the purposes
for which it was conceived. But the fact there were no per­
sons about to use it as a football, we repeat, would not alter
the football-idea by an iota.
The difference, therefore, between an idea, and thinking,
would be the difference between the football as an object
that was not a washtub, a rose, or a steamroller, and the
business of using that particular object to conduct an ath­
letic performance. The moment that all the thinking minds
at the football game were removed by the celestial catastro­
phe, the football-game thinking would cease to exist, though
all the accoutrements making for football as a game would
still exist as ideas until their materials perished under the im­
pact of the elements.
To carry the illustration to absurdity, we can conceive of a
great space-ship arriving from another planet untouched by
such catastrophe, and delivering a few thousand thinking
beings who in due process of time might think up the game
called football. To play it, they would need a ball of given
221
materials, size, and elastic qualities. So the very nature of
the thinking-of-football gesture would command utility of
the football idea as a ball of certain specifications. The
idea would have been eternal, because it was the performing
corollary to the football recreation as a thought in action.
Now what we have employed for illustration as the football
game requiring a whole assembly of such ideas—not only
the ball itself but the field, the goals, the chalk lines marking
the gridiron—we ought to be able to step up into the greater
football game of conscious existence itself.
So long as it is being thought, like the football performance,
it is a reality, and recognizable as an activity; and in the
business of being thought, it requires to employ a million
ideas of form and substantiality similar to our ball, goals,
gridiron, and whatnot.
But abandon the thinking of it, and the life-process quits,
even as the football game quits.
Only in the case of creation, the football players themselves
are as much a part of the assembly of ideas necessary to the
performance as anything we observed in the athletic contest.
Carrying this crude but rather effective metaphor still fur­
ther, we might almost put it that creation is a vast game
like football, but a game held not to raise funds by ad­
missions in order that the team or college might profit finan­
cially or even one team be determined as superior in skill to
any other team, but that the players themselves might recog­
nize themselves as football players and not as coal miners,
or naval officers, or taxicab drivers.
The whole universe is a Thought to a Purpose, just as the
football game, once under way, is a Thought to a Purpose.
222
The purpose ceases to exist when the game ends or the spec­
tators or players are exterminated by cataclysm, therefore the
Thought ceases to be a thought, being no longer in recog­
nizable performance. All the ideas composing it may remain,
we repeat, but they are dormant and abstract, and are only
of utility anew when someone proposes a football game anew.
O UR scientists of the present are striving to account for
existence of the universe on the mechanistic basis. They
are saying that this quantity of atoms combined with that
quality of conditions, and the result was the living universe
as men think they know it.
What they persist in ignoring to their continuing confusion
is that the universe is not a Thing or assembly of Things,
so much as a Mental Utility that contains of and in itself,
the ingredients or fecundities of perpetuity or extinction. It
is organized to get a certain result in Consciousness, by Con­
sciousness, from Consciousness, and keep eternally doing so
or lose its own identity.
There must be the wonder of continuing worlds, therefore;
because if there were only the one world, and it ran its course
to infinity, without infinite multiplications or duplications
of itself, it would achieve only the one quality of conscious­
ness— that of its own evolution, refinement and attainments
— it would ultimately extinguish itself by coming to grasp
itself in entirety and then "have no use for itself,” its pur­
poses having been attained. Instead of which, Consciousness
does not proceed in any such straight-line performance. It
proceeds by expansion, diffusion, that constant disintegra­
tion of itself that immediately becomes more involved inte-
223
gration—if the expression does not sound too paradoxical.
It takes the pattern of the married pair who, instead of go­
ing traveling in order to meet up with a number of other
human beings who with themselves shall compose a wanted
community say to themselves, we will stay right where we are
and proceed to raise a family. Our children may interbreed,
after a fashion, but we will attempt to be the progenitors of
our own community.
Consciousness, in other words, doesn’t move in a line of con­
tinuity—-for that is the merest changing of location. It mul­
tiplies and breeds in the one space known as the universe,
however we behold it.
This being so, it follows that new worlds and more worlds
must constantly and continually come into existence, and
keep on coming into existence after a law of the process, in
order that the great Thinking Game of Cosmos may con­
tinue to have reality.
Remember the playing of the football game in this: stop the
game and let the spectators depart, and the Football Think­
ing stops.
Not that football thinking applies in all its aspects to Crea­
tive Thinking; for while the football thinking follows a
formula in order to be recognized as football thinking, Crea­
tive Thinking simply follows the fiat of creating, in and of
itself, without special stipulation as to what the nature of
the created thing shall be.
224
Jp E R H A P S you may ask yourselves what particular good
it does you to know this, inasmuch as the process would
doubtless go on, anyhow, whether you were aware of it
or not.
We tell you that you do no act of your daily lives, and enter­
tain no idea, and give yourselves no surcease in cosmic func­
tion, that does not have its bearing on this evolution of ca­
pacity for greater and stronger creative thinking.
You are, each of you, in a universe that expands to mightier
and mightier proportions as each individual adds his own
creative thinking to all the creative thinking of all the other
conscious units and thus helps to keep the whole Thinking
Game in perpetual play.
Your own creative thinking, in small and materialistic units
or instances now, evolves and expands until of itself it breeds
other units or instances of creative thinking.
Thus does the universe perpetuate itself; for it is a creative
game that is being played—not using the term to describe
triviality—and there can be no end to it without all the
ideas within it being abandoned and rendered useless, like
the football goalposts and gridiron previously mentioned in
the college athletic contest.
If you could only "get out of your bodies,” so to speak, and
into the more tenuous octaves of Matter, you would realize
how fearsomely true this proposition is, in regarding the
Thought Creations of men’s minds as they go about their
daily excursions even of your present.
As we have told you many times before, "Thoughts are
things,” is more than a grandiose expression of poetic speech.
You project a Light Form into Cosmos to greater or weaker
225
degree, every time you think a constructive thought—even
though the constructiveness of the thought may be destruc­
tive when regarded by society in its worldly application;
and could you see that thought coated with etheric elements,
you would be as stunned as you would be terrified, to behold
what your inner creative minds have called up.
There must be gradations of residence, so to speak, for crea­
tive minds in their various employments of power, even
though its effects are not always apparent to them visually,
and thus do we have worlds, orbs, planets, in various degrees
of qualification for physical occupancy. But Mind as Mind
is the paramount prince that is being served; Spirit as Spirit
is the monarch that is learning the results of his own govem-
ings, benign or baleful as may be determined.
To grasp this fearsome concept of the true nature of the
universe, to realize that, while the earth itself with its myriad
forms of sentient activity may not be made for man as one
beholds him at present, it nevertheless holds that Earth has
been called into being to serve as arena for such perform­
ance of Consciousness as now performs in regard to it, is to
receive a wholly original impetus to push ahead with the
educating ordeal that is Life en toto.
Two things are forever to be borne in mind in considering
it: First, that while there are time-spans in which it is gener­
ally expected that given schools of Spirits will imbibe defi­
nite degrees of awareness and thereby qualify themselves for
others, the individual Spirit, on the other hand, has all the
time there is in Cosmos in which to achieve the ultimate ex­
pertness; second, while it does not follow in present spiritual
apathies that spirits in one life remember definitely the de-
226
tails of their previous world visitations, it certainly does fol­
low that there is no lapse in consciousness in regard to the
recognition of the Self. The personality may alter, life unto
life, but the great predominant note of the character-ego
plays steadily onward with sustained and triumphant peal.
You cannot "forget yourself,” no matter where Conscious­
ness finds you in the vast upward surge of the spiritual con­
course from millennium to millennium. You have ail the
time and all the "survival” that you need, to achieve to the
thing that Holy Spirit has decreed from the very start of
the thinking of the Creative Thought at all.
So remember, when you are distraught over the little cares
and anxieties of any given earthly life, that it isn’t the possi­
bility of failure for your whole cosmic course that distracts
you, so much as worry that you may not be making the
schoolroom grade of the moment and graduating with your
class at the end of the season.
rJpH ER E is one aspect of this earth-world projection with
which we would acquaint you, however, peculiar to your
own planetary orb and to almost none other. It is not so
much a star-sun satellite of itself in comparison with many
trillion other satellites or star-suns through the universe. It
is an orb that has a distinctive evaluation of spiritual poten­
cies in that it portrays phases of life in manifestation not
generally to be found on similar planets.
Your planet has been the arena-scene of a peculiar cosmic
drama that rarely is staged on any cosmic orb. Owing to
its climatic conditions it has been the residence not only of
life indigenous to itself— that is, evolved from its own crea-
227
tive potencies—but forms of spiritual migratory essences that
have become transfused in genealogical contacts, till the
forms of “mortality” regarded by you today are truly three:
the indigenous group, the migratory group, and the mentor
or avatar group. We shall take up the eccentricities of these
groups with you more fully in our series of discourses on the
Great Migration.
Your earth, in the main, is today a kindly planet, in that
all astronomical and horticultural features are most propi­
tious for life as mortality in general knows it. It is of suf­
ficient age to have toned down its virilities and thus permit
of long periods between drastic geological changes. But it
is by no means a transitory planet, set in the sky for an in­
stant and soon to be disregarded by the remaining inhabi­
tants of Cosmos. Too much has gone on, upon its surface,
rendering it of moment among planetary bodies. Its mentor­
ing spirits are too celebrated in Cosmos for it to be regarded
as a winging mote in eternal sunshine. All in all, it is not
unlike an exceptionally desirable house in one of your earthly
neighborhoods, of celebrated history, sound construction, a
perfect heating and refrigerating system, low rental, pleasant
exposures and beautifully gardened grounds. Thousands,
millions, trillions, would like to rent the premises and live in
them but alas, in comparison with those who can do so, be­
cause of that house’s very physical limitations, only a hand­
ful may actually do so. To carry the metaphor one step
further, we can even put it that earthly residence carries a
long waiting-list, after a fashion, and only those who care
to put in concentrated periods at profitable living are given
that privilege by the Divine Landlord.
228
Your earth-world came into existence in the beginning to
accommodate a definite gradation of evolving spirits from
one status of consciousness to another. But mistakes and
fumbles and back-tracks, not to mention cancerous growths
in the sense of abortive mentalities, have come to function
within its habitable arena. These pertain more to the socio­
logical and ethnic than to the astronomical or geological, of
course. But they nevertheless distinguish your planet in
Cosmos.
Think of your earth then, not precisely as the center of
Cosmos, as men conceived of old, but as a location in Cos­
mos of so propitious a nature that its fame has spread to the
outermost star. It is, as the poet has put it, a demonstration
of "infinite riches in a little room.” . . . We leave the
thought there for the moment.
Chapter IX
EA R TH C O N ST A N T
T IS a far cry from the Chaldean folklore
expounding for a simple and elemental race
the origins of our Cosmos as set forth in
the Biblical Book of Genesis, to the most
recent explorings and codings of astronom­
ical physics as set forth by such massive intellects as Kepler,
Newton, Lodge, Eddington, Jeans, Compton, Cameron,
Rutherford, Millikan, Einstein, and Minkowski. Patently,
these later scholars constitute a great cosmic school of phi­
losophers who incarnated at this particular time— just on
the cusp of the Aquarian Age— to substantiate the great
premise that Conscious Spirit is the ruling arbiter of the
universe, and not mindless mechanics arriving at Matter
through atomic accident. The erudition of a thousand years
has it that man was ever a poor worm of infinity, projected
into a world of blind chance where Nature was his enemy
and not his friend, where life was something to be endured
so long as its catastrophes were averted, and on the whole
an agonizing condition from which he could not come alive.
Suddenly as the Piscean Age terminates and the Aquarian
Age opens, we find even the most materialistic of our men
230
of science coming from observatories or laboratories with
queer expressions on their faces. There is no such thing as
Solid Matter anywhere in the universe; what appears to be
substance is purely the eccentricity of electrical impulse. The
planets and constellations in celestial space are real enough
in their recordable functions, but the means by which evi­
dences of their actuality are conveyed to us, call for an en­
tirely new medium in the light of the positive provings of
the authenticity of Relativity.
It is being accepted scientifically, for instance, that once an
impulse of electrodynamics has been projected, it goes on
forever in the unobstructed universe— and its might is deter­
mined by its quality, not by its force.
Space and time as separate entities have already disappeared
from the universe; gravitational forces now disappear also,
leaving—as Jeans declares— "nothing but a crumpled con­
tinuum.” This continuum is the new term for the hypo­
thetical ether of yesteryear, but instead of being considered
a sort of materialistic element through which waves operate,
it is coming to be regarded as “ four-dimensional space” in
which the three dimensions of ordinary space are supple­
mented by Time acting as a fourth dimension.
Nineteenth-Century science had reduced the universe to a
playground of forces of only two kinds— gravitational forces
which govern the major phenomena of astronomy, besides
keeping our bodies and possessions on the earth’s surface,
and electromagnetic forces which control all other physical
phenomena, such as light, heat, sound, cohesion, elasticity,
chemical change and so forth.
Now the gravitational forces are disappearing from science,
231
it is natural to wonder why electrodynamic forces happen to
survive, and how they figure in the continuum. Although
the question is not fully settled—and again I’m quoting
from Jeans— these too seem destined to go the way of gravi­
tational forces. Weyl and Eddington successively pro­
pounded theories which dispensed with electromagnetic
forces altogether, and tried to interpret all physical phe­
nomena as consequences of the peculiar geometry of the con­
tinuum. Both these proved open to objections; the fate of
the more recent theory of the same type by Einstein is still
in the balance. But whatever theory finally prevails, the
universe will have resolved itself into an empty, four-dimen­
sional space, entirely devoid of substance, and totally feature­
less except for the "crumplings,” some large and some small,
some intense and some feeble, in the configuration of the
space itself.
All this is Greek, of course, to the layman-reader, but the
following declaration should by no means be Greek: "T o
sum up, a soap bubble with irregularities and corrugations
on its surface is perhaps the best representation, in terms of
simple and familiar materials, of the new universe revealed
to us by the theory of relativity. The universe is not the
interior of the soap bubble but its surface, and we must al­
ways remember that, while the surface of the bubble has only
two dimensions, the universe bubble has four—three dimen­
sions of space and one of time. And the substance out of
which this bubble is blown— the soap-film—is empty space
welded onto empty time!”
232
^ / 'H A T IS this thing then, that the most erudite scientists
and physicists are now asking us to accept? Let me
quote again at greater length from one of the recent books of
a great physicist: "Today there is a wide measure of agree­
ment, which on the physical side of science approaches almost
to unanimity, that the stream of knowledge is heading to­
wards a non-mechanical reality; the universe begins to look
more like a great thought than like a great machine. Mind no
longer appears as an accidental intruder into the realm of
M atter; we are beginning to suspect that we ought rather
to hail it as the creator and governor of the realm of M at­
ter—not, of course, our individual minds, but the Mind in
which the atoms out of which our individual minds have
grown exist as thoughts. The new knowledge compels us to
revise our hasty first impressions that we had stumbled into a
universe which either did not concern itself with life or was
actively hostile to life. The old dualism of mind and mat­
ter, which was mainly responsible for the supposed hostility,
seems likely to disappear, not through matter becoming in
any way more shadowy or insubstantial than heretofore, or
through mind becoming resolved into a function of the work­
ing of matter, but through substantial matter resolving itself
into a creation and manifestation of Mind. W e discover that
the universe shows evidence of a designing or controlling
power that has something in common with our own individu­
al minds— not, so far as we have discovered, emotion, moral­
ity, or esthetic appreciation, but the tendency to think in the
way which, for want of a better word, we describe as mathe­
matical. And while much in it may be hostile to the material
appendages of life, much also is akin to the fundamental
233
activities of life; we are not so much strangers or intruders
in the universe as we first thought. Those inert atoms in the
primeval slime which first began to foreshadow the attributes
of life were putting themselves more, and not less, in accord
with the fundamental nature of the universe.”
JN O TH ER W ORDS, the physicist-scientist of today is
going the long route around Robin Hood’s Barn to arrive
at the principles and premises that the metaphysician has
known and tried to describe to the world since the days of
Pythagoras.
The metaphysician, of course, has not pottered around with
spectroscope and test tube. H e has gone directly to the mor­
tal intelligence that has graduated out of its physical enve­
lope, and, having gained to the proper communication-band
on the great chart of Light, has asked: "W hat are your per­
ceptions of the universe, now that you see it outside our
circumscribing three dimensions?”
The communicating intelligence has never yet failed to make
this stipulation: You are putting the cart before the horse
when you think of M atter as coming before Consciousness;
Consciousness comes first, M atter is its product, even that
matter which Consciousness under incarnation may inhabit.
Your earth-planet is simply a great Thought-Coagulation
in space, of Free Energy harnessed to a pattern that stays
constant. It is a platform in Cosmos, on which Life can ex­
hibit—to itself as much as to its contemporaries. Its size
is not the important thing; while as for location, it has none,
except in relation to similar concentrations. The important
thing is the exact conditioning of the planet being arrived at,
234
so that life in physical flesh can perform to maximum spir­
itual facility. Planets so conditioned are not plentiful
throughout the universe. Not only must a clever job of
integration be done to start with, but vast quantities of time
are involved, arriving at the conditioning that makes life
acceptable. This means that when such a planet is perfected,
there are trillions upon trillions of souls in Cosmos waiting
to get residence in flesh upon it. This is a situation that
rarely occurs to the thinking mortal.
Commonly we accept that the universe is limitless, that life
evolves upward from protoplasm on as many planet-worlds
as come into existence, that having had its fling at sentiency
— long or short as the case may be— it perishes to extinction
in the individual instance, and arena for performance is no
consequential factor. We concede biologically that practi­
cally no corner of any of these planets is without its mani­
festation of some sort of life, and we wonder— when we give
thought to it at all— at the prodigality of Nature.
But that there should be the situation of the individual life’s
returning to the sentient organism again and again— or at
least wanting to return to it— and finding that for the time­
being there is no room for it, is as blank a mystery as the
so-called dark stars. It is, to say the least, cosmic informa­
tion of unprecedented character. It explains in a measure
the so-called overpopulating of countries like India, China,
and certain habitable parts of Africa. "Any sort of environ­
ment in order to get incarnation,” would seem to be the
imperious fiat. And it does give an importance to the
planet Earth that makes life no less vital than we ourselves
find it. It also puts a valuation on physical life that the
235
average mortal—wearied of the slings and arrows of out­
rageous fortune and longing for the peace that passeth
understanding— too little grasps in its awesome premise.
To put the whole proposition in another way, there seems
to be only about so much free energy or potential electrical
impulse in a given arena of Space and Time distinguishing
any corner of the universe. Thought-Consciousness impels
this free energy into recognizable and usable materials. But
Life itself, once created from the great reservoir of Spirit,
cannot perish to extinction. It exists and goes on existing,
whether or not it has a physical vehicle by which to improve
the quality and capability of its spirithood. Millions unto
trillions of these spirits are not yet sufficiently advanced to
utilize free energy and fashion planetary orbs of their own
for occupancy in vehicles, and so, in a manner of speaking,
there are ever more spirits who want to perfect their spirit-
hood than there are exhibits of coagulated or integrated free
energy to give them a stage for their performance. The re­
sult is a competition in planetary incarnation that is as ruth­
less as it is desperate. Unable to achieve planetary integra­
tion of themselves, these millions unto trillions of spirits are
caught on the horns of a cosmic dilemma. They cannot
think themselves out of existence as a planet that is the
product of Consciousness can be thought out of existence.
They must either wait patiently for a chance to operate
through physical birth on a planet like Earth that is already
created and become ideal for occupancy, or they must go
poking and prying through Cosmos trying to find a planet
where conditions are propitious for performance. After long
periods of time, of course, and the capability that comes
236
after seried incarnations, these achieved spirit-souls graduate
off and away from M atter performance and into conditions
of exercise and operation that sentient earth-life can by no
means comprehend. But the very nature of their graduation
and achievement would command new forms of life to ap­
pear and go through the evolutionary cycle. Thus life is
not lacking in any arena of Cosmos; but residence is, in the
sense of substance. In other words, we might almost put it
that "the housing conditions in Cosmos are terrible” ; there
are a hundred thousand million applying tenants for every
planetary house, with far too few cosmic builders available,
and a constant supply of Energy construction-material. Con­
sequently Cosmos as Cosmos is badly overpopulated, and no
sooner does a planet reach a status where any form of sen­
tient life can perform on it at all, than such life swarms
madly in and takes possession.
y O CARRY the metaphor one step further, there seems
to be but one sensible way in which to relieve such con­
gestion, and that is for spirit-souls to make faster progress—
especially those in the upper brackets of Cosmos—in master­
ing the principles of Thought Integration and equipping
themselves for a wider, higher, and more industrious per­
formance on the so-called Thought Planes or in the octaves
of cosmic construction, so that this housing shortage may
be progressively reduced. On the planet Earth for the last
few thousand years, a condition has maintained where defi­
cient or incorrigible souls have done all within their power
to prevent or stifle the exposition of such knowledge and to
aggravate the congestion instead of relieving it. Great insti-
237
tutions of so-called learning, great organizations of com­
petitive theologies, great coalitions of pseudo-philosophies,
have maliciously or stupidly encouraged incarnated human­
ity to believe that sentient life evolves somehow out of ma­
terials— materials now proved by science to be naught but
empty time operating in empty space— and that after having
one fling at earthly performance, it is done for all time. This
has resulted in a vicious apathy and tardiness in souls finding
themselves in flesh, in the matter of absorbing all that mor­
tality has to give of experiences tending to fashion or con­
trol materials. It has made worldly institutions purporting
to deal with spiritual matters a sort of static shilly-shally in
the true fundamentals of existence and slowed up disas­
trously the whole great parade of Cosmos, to serve the pur­
poses of denominational selfishness. Thus is life on earth
today a vast hiatus in the moral virtues—merely something
to be experienced sensuously and finally relinquished on a
take-your-time basis. And yet as a construction, it can only
be remedied in the octave of mortality in which it first be­
came of moment. The condition having become precipitated
here, it must be dissolved here. It cannot be transferred to
another celestial arena. And in a general manner, it must
largely be dissolved by the identical spirits causing the pre­
cipitation. The eccentricity of this condition’s happening at
all belongs to another and more advanced volume, however,
and in proper place will be functioning. What we must call
attention to now is that for a fortunately interminable time
in Cosmos this planet knows a status that should be more
intelligently appreciated by those who have been lucky in
getting a leasehold. As the true state of affairs is made
238
intelligible, it should be seized upon and absorbed for all
the potential benefits it contains, instead of being resented
and ignored that transient institutions may take temporal
profits. The faster the individual assimilates the majesties
of truth that periodically offer to competent intelligence, the
quicker will he be eligible for graduation and diploma.
""jPHIS A Q U A RIA N Dispensation, which comes in the
procession of the equinoxes every 25,867 years, seems
to be in its essence a common graduating period for millions
of souls that have profited by the erudition in the celestial-
month classrooms. Its first aspects coming to be felt back
in 1844, it apparently requires 159 years to arrive at cosmic
fullness. That will bring the time-span to the year 2,003
A. D., when the Aquarian influence will be dominant in
world effects. This great transition time, this "Passover”
through which humanity is now going as in a ghastly travail,
must have its wars and convulsions, its upheavals and revolu­
tions. Really, to continue the college metaphor, it is a sort
of examination time for the souls that are due to leave Earth
behind them forever— no matter how many incarnations they
may have known upon it— and evolve onward and upward
to new planes and octaves commensurate with their wisdom.
As such, the more enlightened among us should think of it.
To some of those taking the examinations, the tests will in­
clude standing by great principles, playing stellar roles in
great revaluations of mortal institutions, espousing or even
leading major movements toward renovations. To others,
the tests will be in the form of mentoring a handful, bringing
illumination to a neighborhood, a family, a clan, a State.
239
Some will put their theses for their degrees in the form of
great books, great inspirational pictures, great poems, great
works of art. Escape the episodes of the tests, they cannot.
And remember, such tests are almost never labeled. They
come as "naturals,” or situations and circumstances seeming
to arise from the employment of the developed character in
worldly environments, no matter how shoddy, no matter how
satanic. N o one who is to graduate can escape his examina­
tion. All through the Passover period they will continue;
all through the Aquarian Age of Commencement. Then,
after the 2,156 years of the Aquarian Age have run, a new
cycle undoubtedly will commence; a fresh crowd of students
will come into the lowest classrooms under the earth-sign
of Capricorn, expressed in the Zodiac by the symbol of the
Goat. That will not be the concern of anyone now living
and illuminated by the grandeurs of this esoteric text.
JH E T H IN G that devolves upon the least of us to do,
is to perceive accurately what is being offered by both
Science and Metaphysics for our present assimiliation, dis­
cern clearly its long-throw cosmic import, and absorb its mo­
mentum on ourselves—to help us forward into octaves of
supernal performance where all earth’s quandaries will be
recognized to have been but experiments in a classroom.
When an enlightened and illumined spirit-soul, on earth in
this present dispensation, sees the plan of Cosmos for what
it is, views the planet and its ingredients for what they are
objectively, makes the seried-life performance his formula
for all esoteric considering, and evaluates all life phenomena,
in every form about him, as exercise of such formula in the
240
demonstration of Reality, he is mentally prepared to take
the final Great Step into higher manifestations of spirit
performance. He will leave this last earthly envelope which
he will ever inhabit, with his mentality "all set” for receiv­
ings of manifestations in the octave just ahead. He will not
be helpless or at a loss in such higher-octave environment, an
adolescent in a company of adults. To "die” physically but
make the Passing intelligently, fearlessly, and even with an
eagerness— because one has prepared himself with supernal
knowledge-—means but to reach immediate orientation in
the new octave, and function excellently from the first in­
stant of opening the eyes of the Light Body on the features
of the higher-life environment. That, in the final analysis,
is the essence of all this teaching, the epitome of all meta­
physical erudition. There are hundreds upon hundreds of
pages of knowledge yet to be assimilated before such instruc­
tion can ever be called complete. But to get the celestial
system, the solar system, the planetary system, recognized
for what they are, see the earth as an integrated coliseum for
the life-exhibition, and realize that Science is but the materi­
alistic proving of that which is not materialistic, are the ac­
complishments of the moment.
Back in one of my discourses at the commencement of this
teaching, I used this illustration: Go far enough distant into
imaginary space to view the universe as a huge bevy of bil­
liard balls, rising and falling about one another as they fol­
low their orbits, but as a collection located nowhere that can
be described geographically except in relation to themselves.
On the outer surface of one of these billiard balls, human
life such as we appraise it is functioning, year after year,
241
century after century, age after age, millennium after millen­
nium. The bevy of balls— resembling from far distance just
a cloud of gnats in sunset— hangs suspended in everlasting
space, oscillating to and fro, according to Herschel, but uni­
formly maintaining the one position. And the whole bevy
of balls, or cloud of gnats as you prefer, is concentrated
Thought obtaining a material basis for its exercise, unit
against unit. What does such a picture reveal in its spiritual
significance?
It reveals that the importance of Life is not where it func­
tions but how it functions; not why Consciousness conjured
up Substance as its vehicle but what the effects of such con­
juring may be upon the unit in expanding and exercising Its
divine self-awareness.
O f course, to glance from the nearest window in sunset and
see the idle smoke hanging over the factories of cities, the
beauty of fields and woods and rivers to the line of horizon,
the first stars of evening beginning to twinkle as the after­
glow fades and night is imminent, makes it difficult to con­
ceive of the whole of it as just integrated energy holding to
patterns of this or that. It is all very real to us, and very
substantial, and very delightful. The trials and experiencings
and vicissitudes in such an environment are so actual in
their physical effects upon us that it appears at times to be
a form of hallucination to term them purely mental, to say
that they influence us only as our spirits react to them. Yet
should we reach for the nearest grass-blade, or catch the
feather floating down from the capricious swallow’s wing,
and put either beneath a microscope powerful enough to re­
solve it to visible molecules and atoms, we should see, verily
242
by mechanical proofs, that naught was there but positive and
negative electrical impulse. Only because our eyes are not
fine enough to see with the magnification of the lens, is the
factory smoke what it appears to us, or the fields and woods
and rivers other than trillions upon trillions of electrical im­
pulses performing to constant pattern. The limitations of
the eye, so to speak, or the vision adjusted so that it observes
molecular or atomic energy in the pattern-accumulate, makes
the world what it is as we regard it in mortality. Presently
we shall graduate from this encasement of flesh. We shall
see not with the clumsy retina of the physical eye and optical
nerves running back to the brain, but with the eye of the
Light Body, stepped up to behold vibrations a million times
swifter than those of physicality. And in the exact degree
that such perception is stepped up, so will the world and its
patterns take on changed aspects. We shall see the same
world, the same properties, the same patterns, but we shall
perceive them in mental reactions to an infinite degree of
minutiae that now are closed books to our low-grade senses.
Verily the thought can be carried to the eternal. As we go
onward and upward, examining ever finer and finer integra­
tions, the day must at last arrive when we behold the Ulti­
mate Unit, with the space between it and its immediate
predecessor of extent so vast as to make us exclaim that the
universe, after all, is practically a Void. But even in behold­
ing the Ultimate Unit, we shall probably observe but a
thought-disturbance in universal essence. And beyond it,
what then? Shall we not have to reverse and come back into
integrating and compounding atoms in order to conceive of
ourselves at all? For if we shall have arrived at the Ultimate
243
U nit, and all else is emptiness, then only ourselves and that
Ultimate U nit shall constitute reality. And with the U lti­
mate U nit’s vanishing as to substance— in that it is merely
a thought-disturbance in universal essence, then all that shall
be left for us to regard is the subjective consciousness which
is the self-recognizable ego that each of us gives the identity
of himself! W e do not deal in hypothetical intangibles when
we indulge in such deductions. To reach for the nearest
high-powered microscope provides us with an instrument to
show the elemental truth of it.
Literally so, it is, that all of the trillions of us who are living
in universal essence now, are existing in the maelstrom of
electrical nihility, but our senses have found ways to recog­
nize forms that represent ideas to us, and all ideas on the fre­
quency of the wave-length of our vehicles, are accepted by
us as tangibles. An integrated electrical impulse of a fre­
quency with ourselves, is a tangible. The miracle of the
whole of it is the keeping to a constancy of pattern in each
instance. However, it might be said that we have relin­
quished control of ourselves spiritually and abandoned our­
selves to these constant idea-frequencies, that by their effects
on our perceiving egos we may gain to greater and stronger
realizations that we Are!
C ^O IT is the mental and spiritual reactions of each one of
us to these ideas, designs, and patterns, that mold and
make our worlds, bringing one into existence for a time, tak­
ing another out. W ars, social upheavals, revolutionary con­
vulsions—what can these be then but trial-and-error experi­
mentations by masses instead of individuals, trying new con-
244
cepts, indulging new caprices, learning how to adjust the
individual spirit to vicissitude gracefully, withal gaining
to the larger and mightier concept of our own potentialities
to discriminate between that which is constructive and that
which is injurious?
It is lucky for us, on the whole, that in our present case
we have found tenure on a planet at all. Others in Cosmos
by the billion are not so fortunate. And yet one of these
worlds like ours, once perfectly integrated, must run the
drama of its life-forms to the ultimate.
The other day, in an old notebook, I ran across the following
anonymous paragraph which I have preserved for years. The
picture that it paints is one of biological evolution, but when
we consider it as a portrayal of the multiplicity of form-ideas
to aid in self-recognition of Consciousness, it becomes some­
thing else—
"Science finds no time, or place, or thing set apart, and
alone sanctified by one instantaneous, all-embracing creative
act. Cosmic evolution and organic evolution, the growth of
stars and suns, of earth and plant and man are continuous
parts of the one process. The more formal chemistry of
earth and sea and air; the flowing chemistry of protoplasmic
cell and organ; the molding discipline of associated nerve
and muscle, eye and hand; the alchemy of associated lives
in Nature’s household, are but different phases of one con­
tinuous, all-pervading process of creation.
"Nebulae stiffen into stars and suns, and give birth to drool­
ing planets, lava-smeared. Throbbing tides of sea and air,
the heartbeats of a planet, drive the nutrient ocean to the
mountain skeleton and through the capillaries of earth,
245
clothing her ribs in clay and spreading her first gardens of
ooze. Earth labors in her kitchen and with equal skill in syn­
thesis brings forth atoms tied in stable squads and marching
regiments, crystals straight-edged and steadfast, proteids and
albumens, with rounded forms and yielding sides, dancing
specks and wiggling threads, prophets of life to come, sprawl­
ing, self-consuming protoplasm, free to rove or wrapped in
rigged walls or bound in glowing brotherhoods of cells to­
gether, polyp and snail, worm and crab, fish and frog, bird
and ape, and at last naked, hand-free, high-headed Man,
armored and armed— with conscience and with vision. Scru­
tinize as best she may, Science finds no seam in this universal
fabric, no patchwork of dead and alive, honored or dishon­
ored, in creation— no barrier between what Was, and Is,
and Shall Be!”
246
LO VE Y O U R EA RTH
EARLY Beloved Brethren in Mortality: We have told
you that life on earth is essentially divine, that all is
Holy Spirit engaged in obtaining formal effects for the ex­
pansion of Itself. Now we tell you something more. We
confide to you a secret of Cosmos.
The universe itself is not constant, as most of you observing
it are accustomed to think of constancy. That is, no matter
what the continuity of its forms, it is by no means set, static,
persevering from age to age in the one transcendent pattern.
The universe is Change. It is Change Incarnate. It is
Change-in-Action, observable to the eye. And even as the
universe is Change, so too does the literal body of your earth
change. The world which you inhabit, in the Twentieth
Century of solar time after the Savior’s ministry, is not the
same earth in its minute and infinitesimal features and in­
gredients that it was in His time, literally as well as figura­
tively, actually as well as symbolically. The earth as a planet
grows and groans, exalts and sorrows, inhales and exhales
the Divine Afflatus, even as you mortals in your animated
bodies. As the cells of the latter waste and are renewed,
so are the cells of the earth wasted and renewed. It is not,
in other words, a dead, inorganic thing, rolled in the heavens
for sentient life to walk upon. It is, in the accumulate of its
atomic structure, an entity in space, even as you mortals are
entities in society. What you will some day come to see
247
is this: that inorganic life, no less than organic life, has a
type of consciousness of its own, that nothing exists or en­
dures that does not have in it the essence of Holy Spirit. If
Holy Spirit can obtain and form a pattern, so that a thing
is distinguishable as to identity from generation to genera­
tion, it is because there is a part and parcel of Holy Spirit
remaining intact within it, preserving its design as well as
its essence, making it to maintain individuality amid all other
forms. Constantly you wonder "why things keep their
shape” and why atomic structure maintains the same pattern
season after season, generation after generation. The an­
swer to the mystery is, that enough of divine consciousness
remains forever of, and in, that created thing, mineral,
vegetable or animal as the case may be, to hold its atoms to
performance in the rigid design. That is why we of the
higher octaves regard all earth’s creations with more rever­
ence than do you. That ingredient Holy Spirit is present
in everything, else it ceases to have pattern. An analogy to
your own mortal bodies is found here. Should you withdraw
your sentient spirit from your mortal molecules and atoms,
the body disintegrates. Should the Consciousness of Holy
Spirit withdraw from any material thing, no matter how
humble, so too would it disintegrate.
Too many of you are prone to think of your earth-planet
as set, dead, static, we say. But the earth, even the planet
as an entity in free open heavens, is constantly altering in
contour and behavior. It can be happy or grief-struck— in
a blind or elemental way—at the operatings and performings
going on upon its surface. It is not rolled in space as an in­
ert, lifeless thing; it is made to fetch and carry for the pur-
248
poses of the H ost. And no vehicle thus functioning is ever
without its life, verily the living, breathing essence of the
Divinity in unit.
W e tell you these things for a definite purpose. You have
had a book placed in your hands that has to do largely with
the integratings of materials. You may think it curious in
parts, dry and uninteresting in others, profitable here, trivial
elsewhere. But the real message of the volume may have es­
caped you entirely. N o book is ever static. It is always as
alive as the person who reads it. A volume that wearies or
stupefies one man may be a fountain of intelligence to
another.
So we say, the purpose of this collation of papers has been
to bring home to you that while the planet endures and
marks an area in cosmic space, it has come about that there
should have been a stage and arena for given celestial spirits
to exercise themselves and grow in moral as well as social
stature. Long ages ago, longer than the folklore of the
oldest peoples carries, a concourse of celestial entities of a
high, high order betook themselves apart from the H ost to
perform unto themselves, to project in this corner of Cosmos
a perfect little planet—as planets go in size— that should
give them as creators a peculiar satisfaction. They were
demonstrating unto themselves their expert awareness, to
become great archangels of a sort, or beings so transcendent
as to pass for gods in their own right. They were not capri­
cious in this. They had a task to perform, a brevet to serve.
Oncoming in Cosmos was a host of heavenly beings who de­
sired a peculiar series of pleasure-pain experiences different
than all others procurable to date. This group was to learn
249
from such type of ordeal the perfect self-awareness of beings
conceived in love but swinging outside the orbit of transcen­
dent affection— so to speak— to know pure evil and pervers­
ity, and then to swing inward again and proceed to supernal
octaves with their vicious natures altered. It is too big a
program to describe here in detail. But the drama was aus­
tere and had to be played out. It was a drama not infre­
quently played to infinity— a dangerous performance for its
effects on themselves. Already you have papers still to be
printed in earthly books, telling you of the experiences of
those spirits in making this circuit, but what we would re­
mark upon is this: The planet that resulted, when the
processes of creation had been completed, was perfect as to
form, stable as to pattern, and symmetrical as to seasons.
It was set in this particular corner of Cosmos that the light
and heat from your nearest star— the Sun— should culture
and profit. It was not set too near your sun, yet it was near
enough that all of the sun’s radiational effects should be exer­
cised upon it and the life that would inhabit it.
Now into this corner of Cosmos, while it was attaining to
its final stages of appointments, came a second host of spirits
who had no right to linger there. They were not perverse
spirits. They were spirits who might at best be called curi­
ous if not a little mischievous. They stood on the sidelines
to watch for a time. They thought themselves quite capable
of creating a similar planet for themselves if they might but
act in unison, but they had not achieved to the character
attainment that made cooperation a constructive vitality.
These spirits interfered, if the description be allowed, with
their advices and distractions during great etheric processes,
250
and while their massed thought-strength was not sufficient
to alter the shape or quality of your earth, it infiltrated an
element of thought-force that by no means belonged there.
It gave form and speed to monstrosities of intellect. It per­
mitted growths to come to fruition that were not indigenous
to the type of planet being put into action. Then when they
had thus intruded themselves, stamped their own imperfec­
tions upon the product, so to speak, they wanted incarnation
as a matter of proprietary privilege. They had mingled with
the makers and added their own thought-force but they had
no means of knowing that they were bungling a vast project
of surpassing grandeur, that sooner or later they must reap
the results of their abortive interference. We shall say more
about them in discourses that are coming. But this was the
result: that the vibrations of such interfering entities are still
a part of the composition of this living and breathing celes­
tial body. They have made themselves a part of it by con­
tributing their thought-force, although uninvited, and now
they must persist and remain in its aura till the last vestige
of their interference is undone.
Earth as a planet was meant to be cast and completed in
perfection. It was meant to have equal seasons, balanced
rations of seed-time and harvest, light and dark, radiation
and absorption. But this disturbing factor entering in, has
put a blemish on the planet as you know it. It has con­
tributed to a maladjustment of forces, to a deficient equi­
librium, that causes basic disturbances, even to this moment.
Eventually, of course, this mischief will be remedied. The
earth, your scientists say, will some day swing back to a true
orbit and revolution, have equal seasons, balanced periods of
251
seed-time and harvest. But we cannot impress upon you too
forcibly that the main reason for this apparent dissimilarity
in peoples, inadvertent operatings of cataclysms, interrupted
or capricious harvests, intermittent phenomena tending to
displace terrain and change polar rotations—has its birth
and genesis in this unfavorable alien influence that was in­
born and inbred into the very core of the earth as it gradu­
ally contracted from the stage of nebula.
These things were better known to the ancients, in that the
ancients, being closer to the Divine Accumulate in wisdom,
knew partially of their identities. Many of the presiding
spirits, thus obstructed in their work of projecting a perfect
earth, have gone on in Cosmos and have not been heard from
in many millennia. Others remained behind in eternity to
do the best that could be done with an earth thus afflicted.
These latter are the Great Ministering Overlords of the
world at this moment. They are just as much in evidence
as they were at the moment of originally bespeaking crea­
tion. They are planning a perfect earth still to come, and
mean to achieve it as a point of celestial honor in supernal
performance of mentality.
This is the point that we would register with you as we pass
on to papers that will fill another volume—
'"JT iO S E spirits thus interfering with the orderly processes
of creation are not wholly to be blamed for the confu­
sion thus done. They did what they did in a sort of neces­
sity. You will understand ultimately why a spirit—to be a
spirit and know itself for what it is—must forever be "doing
something” else it cannot exist. It identifies itself by its
252
works—or rather, its works and its essence are more or less
interchangeable. So these spirits who "assisted” in the pro­
jection of your earth were, after a fashion, fulfilling the
brevet of their natures. Thousands, millions, of them have
seen their error and would cheerfully rectify the mischief if
they could. It is a matter of their evolving to a point where
of their own spirit-strength they are able to pull out of
earth’s composition that which is their foreign and alien in­
gredient. It may be many ages before this is achieved com­
pletely. Meanwhile life on this planet will go onward. The
world as a planet, and the planet as a world, will go onward.
It will perform as it has ever performed. But ever in the
background and under the surface of its performance, is
that malodorous ingredient of souls who had no bona fide
part in its production and who interjected something which
should not be there, causing hurricanes and pestilences, mak­
ing abortive orders and sometimes inhabiting them themselves,
projecting false philosophies for lodgment in men’s minds,
bringing losses of social equilibrium that were by no means
intended by the motivating hierarchy. True, not all terrain
disturbances or social convulsions can be laid to their influ­
ence, but enough of them remain to cause serious dislocations.
You are about to embark upon a course of study presently,
as to why the various life-forms became of existence on this
earth. You will see how one set or caste of spirits was assumed
to inhabit this globe when completed. You will learn how the
first forms of life came upward from sea-water, evolved to
Mammalia and at length became men of low classification.
You will learn how still other forms took up earthly resi­
dence by migration, forming bodies of their own from ma-
253
terialization and proceeding to inhabit them to the confu­
sion of the forms which the earth-creators had accommo­
dated. This made for a great Abomination Sequence, re­
quiring a host of still other entities to come and try to
straighten out the confusion. But that is not relevant to
this volume in hand.
J^ ^ A N as you know him today is a "celestial animal.” He
has found a location of his own in Cosmos and named
it Earth. On his planet of that name he persists in his resi­
dence. Everything is here for his comfort and enjoyment.
But man must learn how to use the forces and environment
placed at his disposal, sanely and sagaciously. H e must learn
complete control, individually and socially. H e must come to
perceive the defects of his own mass reasonings as well as
the defects of his personal character under expansion, as con­
tact with his fellows and the seeming obstructions of Nature
take him higher and farther up the Ladder of Godhood.
This will come in time. But as for the planet as a planet,
consider this: Man is the highest created and inhabiting form
of sentient life on the earth-plane. As such, he has dominion
over it. There are only his Overlords who are greater than
he. This of itself should demonstrate that it is man’s mis­
sion to himself that is being served by such residence, for
presumably otherwise the Almighty could have instructed the
Over-souls to bring in forms of life still higher and make
man a mere bond servant to their greater intellects. Nothing
of the sort has been permitted. Man is supreme today in his
own domain. H e is literally "lord of all he surveys.” But
he fails to survey enough. He needs the more altruistic
254
grasp on the processes being performed here— a more trench­
ant concept of his place in the Scheme of Things. O f him­
self, he is nothing. Without a world to educate and improve
him, he is nothing. He must have this planet for all of its
minor imperfections and obstructions to polish him to ex­
cellence.
So we say to you, dear brethren in that circumstance, do
not "fight” the earth and your tenure upon it. Think of it
as a fortunate happening that you are permitted to have
experience of it. If so be it a heavenly holocaust should dis­
integrate the titanic thought processes that brought it into
being, its radiations would reassemble and doubtless the en­
ergy released would be available for another supernal cosmic
manufacture. But no such thing stands remote chance of
happening. It would be a mighty tussle between titans of
intellect that would ever precipitate such a debacle. And
uniformly they are too far advanced to see merit or profit
in such a contest. No, you are fairly safe on your planet
Earth for an indefinite period. Take it as your classroom,
your laboratory, your eternal workshop in which the subject
under experimentation is yourselves.
This message we leave with you: "For God so loved the
world,” says Holy Writ, "that He gave His only begotten
Son, that whosoever believeth on Him should not perish but
have everlasting life.” We would rewrite the sublime rendi­
tion: "For God so loved the world that He sent it existence
under His Son, that whosoever should profit from its edu­
cating excellences should enjoy forever the Son’s splendorful
guardianship.” That of itself means life everlasting.
Get acquainted then with your home, the Earth, and recall
255
in your blackest moments that nowhere in Cosmos are more
wonderful experiences available than accrue to you daily
from your mundane inheritance!
256
Chapter X
A EO N S ST IL L A H EA D
T IS manifestly irrational to project the pic­
ture of a future world, or a universe that be­
gins where this universe leaves off, assuming
it ever does, without indicating W H Y such
termination should ever be of moment, and
what the manifesting phases of such a succeeding universe
may be. W e have thought of ourselves as marooned on this
solar planet where conditions are rigid and inescapable and
have assumed that such isolation is everlasting. But what
shall we say if it suddenly becomes apparent that such may
by no means be the case? It leaves us somewhat breathless
because we have small means of forecasting what any alter­
natives may comprise. But what if, in time, it becomes ap­
parent that an economy of the Planes is called for, that
there be no particular differentiation between the experiences
to be suffered on the earth-plane and those immediately
above it? This is a prospect that only the adept in psychical
matters can appreciate. And yet, we of the modem instance
in earth experiences seem to be facing some such major al­
teration in our etheric viewpoints. Apparently we can arrive
as individuals at a circumstance where it is desirable for hu-
257
manity in earthly bodies to acquire a direct and positive
knowledge of the higher planes and their separately circum­
scribing curricula of cosmic erudition where it is disclosed
to the least of the terrestrial plane’s incumbents that this
First Level is only the starting-out point. Still more magnifi­
cent worlds invite and challenge us, the whole wrapped up
in the fecundities of what modem life describes by the ter­
minologies of Nuclear Fission. And yet, apparently, all that
separate the various planes or octaves of Consciousness as we
created mortals confront them, are the differences between
illuminating light-waves or electronic frequencies. If we were
physically equipped to discern that which ultra-violet light
now screens from us, our entire philosophy of consummate
Creation might be changed. It is because of what we at
present can’t see that casts the earth-world in its current
abstruse pattern Very well, how then to see? It is not
out of place in this book to mention it . .
Obviously earlier generations of humankind, living in Tau-
rian, Arian, or Piscean times, took the universe as each be­
held it and looked for nothing antithetical behind it. They
saw the rocks, soil, and trees of earth, the sky, the clouds,
the other planets shining as stars by night, and said "T his
is the universe, and we are a fragment of it.” But by no
means may they have been any such "fragm ent.” A totality
of all manifestation might have been exhibiting in themselves
as creatures, and because they were such, had an importance
quite on a par with anything manifesting in occupied Space.
While it will ever remain true that the Whole is the sum of
all of its parts, nonetheless there can be such a thing as the
Whole manifesting withm the parts or by means of the parts.
258
Therefore this earth-world that we have been considering
the past two to three hundred pages may be by no means a
fragment. It may be as clean-cut and positive a representa­
tion of the Whole as can be located anywhere in Cosmos.
It is a point to which to pay attention.
All of which may be saying in another way that the First
Plane may actually exceed itself and disclose the peculiarities
of Planes Two, Three, Four or Five, if sobeit the residing
spirit-souls are benefitted or advanced. Benefaction and Ad­
vancement have long since been disclosed as the End of At­
tainment for all units of Consciousness. Why then, need
they be held back by the stabilities or imponderables of na­
ture in the raw state, the elemental state, or the implacable
state before Thought became a factor in performance?
J T IS a popular cliche of metaphysics to say that human­
kind, male and female, are gods in embryo, climbing the
tedious stairway of Experience toward divinity, plane by
plane and world by world. The whole concept is meaning­
less unless we have understanding of what gods, of what
divinity, may be considered abstractly. We think in our
current mortal limitation that godhood or divinity must
mean the human presentation of self-awareness considered in
sublimation, our current selves matured to a spiritual adult­
hood. This is because we can conceive of spirit in no other
terms. If it be not translatable through or in terms of our­
selves it is noncomprehendable. We think of ourselves as
part of a system and yet the system is the maximum con­
summation of ourselves. It occurs only to the one person
in ten thousand to think of self-identification as an element
259
quite as tangible as a rock or a tree or the minerals, fibres,
or vegetations of which they are composed. But self-identifi­
cation is merely awareness individualized through environ­
mental performance due to some variety of expressing vehi­
cle. Self-identification through self-awareness may perchance
be an element more than a mental realization, while any as­
pect of what is called M aterial is a similar element whether
it be the organic body by which we obtain worldly expression
or the factual universe in which we can only demonstrate
our aliveness through behavior or actionist-performance.
Mayhap true Divinity is the polarity of these, not as a desti­
nation but as a traveling. One cannot exist without the in­
fluence of the other, each being otherwise unknowable.
If we ask too specifically about the substance of identifi­
cation we find it has to be conveyed in terms of externals,
the features of performing vehicle or the spatial scene in
which vehicular performance operates that it is noticeable
not only to fellow identities but to itself through their reac­
tions. By similar token if we ask too specifically about the
substance of material location we can comprehend none of
it excepting through intimate or hypothetical relationship
of our awareness-unit and the reactions suffered one upon
the other. This in turn makes Relationship a third major
vitality.
N o matter what variety of sentient existence we experience,
nor what the plane of its exhibition, this phenomenon of
Relationship is unavoidable. It is likewise inescapable. Be­
cause it cannot be ignored, it has an imperishability that gives
it an aspect of its own omnipotence in a universe of Things
That Are. Thus we seem to confront a third potentate of
260
circumstance, making an unsuspected holy trinity with
Awareness and external Reality. Awareness, Externality, and
the Affinity of these from Contact are forever interdependent
from the very fact of their existence each and severally. And
coming right down to it, Relationship possesses a vitality
quite as nonexterminable as Consciousness and its Placement.
Thus in divine mathematics do we have a world, whether
made of one planet or five trillion, a world really expressive
of the great Third Element, interdependence. Actually what
this planet expresses in Cosmos is.Relationship and not much
beside that is comprehendible.
Relationship determines everything—size, form, location,
area, even necessity for exhibition in order to convey the phe­
nomenon of Being to any cell of self-awareness beside one’s
own. It is primitive and elemental that God should have
conceived of M an merely as a creation, then conceived of
an Edenic planet on which man should lodge. W hat God
actually conceived was Relationship, the bearing of one vi­
tality, namely Consciousness, on a second vitality, area con­
ceived objectively that Consciousness activate and not only
know itself but be known by others. Relationship was the
cement giving one reflection in the other. In the new Aquari­
an theology God shall have said, not "Let there be light” but
"Let there be relationship,” for out of relationship shall not
only come all contrasts supplying wisdom but comparisons
causing enlargement of spirit import. Indeed, without this
important factor there could scarcely be Thinking itself. It
is more than intellectual rainbow-chasing. It is imperatively
the root of all things being what they are.
God wanted Relationships to exist, endure, instruct, and re-
261
veal. So a planetary foundation had to be fabricated, the
motif for which was Relationship venerated into practice.
All things being brought into juxtaposition one with another
Relationship became really the key to the whole. Conscious­
ness can scarcely be itself without acknowledgment in terms
of effects wrought upon self-awareness. Thus Relationship
is truly paramount to both and supplies motivation for ac-
tionism in either.
Almost we might say that it was God’s reason for any as­
pect of creation that was perceptible. One element by the
fact of being should react upon a second element by the
fact of objectivity, and such Relationship maintain unto
eternal time in the business of shaping not only the character
of Awareness but the character of disciplining Circumstance
represented by materials and the insistence of their operation.
Undoubtedly the motif of interdependence was being served
but that again was a factor in control of Spirit that could
only exercise to Spirit’s perpetual enlargement. And Spirit’s
perpetual enlargement was not that Spirit might eventually
gain a phenomenal stature but that Spirit might never en­
counter a tedium in merely being but always have actionist
recourse in the cosmic enigma of becoming.
Spirit could only "become” as an enduring and never-ending
enticement through active participation in Relationship, or
connecting affinity with all things external to itself.
The Great Motivating Intellect behind all that IS supplied
the self-aware unit with the interminable project of always
and forever becoming that which it has yet to BE, goals of
attainment always receding as self-appreciation grows in ever
expanding patterns of attainments.
262
Divinity would seem to be then the Ever-Becoming-but-
Never-Arriving rendered into a unit of self-knowledge or
better self-recognition that knows no other course but U p ­
ward. Thus the earth and the world whose ideology it con­
tains, no matter what the number of fact-octaves comprising
it, is quite as essential to Spirit in its forever-progressing
existence as the phenomenon of fact-octaves taken singly or
collectively. Spirit has to have a world, in other words, to
keep it apprised that it IS Spirit, no matter though five
trillion planetary bodies may have to be figured in its com­
position.
By such inductive reasoning it comes to us that no matter
what the nature of any planetary world, it is quite as neces­
sary to the Scheme of Things Spiritual as the biggest or
smallest unit of self-aware Consciousness distinguishing its
performance area.
One would be well nigh meaningless without the other.
We creatures on our small planetary world cannot grasp this
at Present. We are "creatures of Circumstance” we think,
whereas all Cosmos is "playing up to us” in effecting differ­
ent gains in development. Each of us requires a "different
thing” if the truth could be told. Cosmos is striving to see
that we get it by allocating us where each finds himself, where
the thing that we need is most propitious of acceptance.
Earth Came because there was a definite need for what it
could furnish a given quota of soul-spirits when it had been
concreted and launched. There is no other planet in the en­
tire starry universe precisely like it, either in its characteristics
or potentials. But unless we adjudge ourselves by the in­
habitants who distinguish other planetary orbs or systems, we
263
can in no wise know our predicam ent. . excepting by what
happens to us in it.
Time, however, is small factor in this happening—remember
that! Time is only the interval of procession of events, one
growing out of another. There can be no such thing as Time
otherwise. W e, of course, cannot see this, and accord to Time
a value of itself that does not exist. Eventually it will become
an incident in our Consciousness that it must endure or cover
the span between one event and another event. W hat profit
exists to Spirit from being able to mark the length of the in­
tervals?
Q U M M IN G up all of it, we enter now, I say, the Nuclear
Atomic Age, when even materialistic atoms give up the
secrets of their composition and construction. They give
them up through the miracle of electrical quartz filtering of
infra-yellow light, disclosing whole new worlds visible by
ultra-violet illumination. Cameras with lenses of electrical
quartz photograph scenes and objects that man has hitherto
ascribed to "Thought” . Thus thought-scenes and thought-
objects suddenly become real to man. And transcribing of
ultra-violet light down into infra-yellow permits of celestial
Television that edifies his senses. The practical effect of it is
to enlarge and extend man’s world verily to the Infinite.
All these factors have been in existence since the first throb
of God-Consciousness endowed them with Form, but man
has persisted in the delusion that only that which registered
on his sensings attested to their actuality. W ithout them
nothing existed or endured. Thus has man become a creature
of his sensings—an organic synonym for that which he per-
264
ceives by sight, hearing, or skill in touch. As he gets away
from these, or refines or transcends them, his universe opens
and expands to him. W ith a pleased sense of shock he com-
poundingly grasps how elemental and primitive were his first
perceivings and identifyings. H e is a child growing up. The
mansion of his birth and residence through babyhood has
long been constructed but he grasps new meanings to its
floors and rooms as he progresses toward its penthouse where
observation of universality awaits him.
The theologian would have it that God constructed the man­
sion for Himself, permitting human entrance or occupancy
through sufferance; the scientist would have it that the man­
sion reared itself, with men becoming aware of its features
and furnishings as they ventured out like termites from the
interstices of its walls. The true rationalist would use the
whole as an environment for a stage where players play
their parts, a foundation-platform for organic creatures of
any atomic frequency to pursue their relations one with the
other and profit spiritually—at any rate ethically—by the
discoveries of association. The true esoterist conceives of the
composition as an expedient in Cosmos where units of Divine
Consciousness come into appreciation of their potencies as
well as their localities and work out a plot involving them­
selves in totality.
The whole constitutes a vast university wherein all forms of
knowledge are traded in, essential for the orderly and healthy
development of student-psyches. The business of being
“ saved” , as the moral culturist would proclaim it, is only a
complex induced by seeming inequitable denouement of retri­
butions as between individuals; it can have no place in the
265
evolutions of true moral grandeurs. If, for every action there
is inevitable reaction, and for every thought-impulse executed
there must be inevitable return in kind, "saving” even by
Grace is a contradiction in the Law. It absolves the per­
former of an act from penalty. It makes exceptions of indi­
viduals in the blanket process of reprisals and blunts the en­
lightening process of penalties for deeds that assure the equi­
ties. And especially is this certain if the "saving” be attained
through celestial favoritism or deathbed repentences. The
whole Plan of the educational processes is defeated by it at
a stroke. Really it betokens a form of inferiority complex
in the would-be benefactee, in that he condemns himself auto­
matically by seeking it. The fact that a theologic caste in
an earlier dispensation may have erected a grandiose liturgy
upon the structure of the idea, means nothing but infantile
delusion and ignorance in the purpose of the Whole.
Worlds do come into existence, we suspect, at any time or
point in Eternality that their presence betokens utility, when
the classes of graduating spirits require new opportunities for
exercise of their creative attainments, when conditions in
Cosmos mean fresh exploits of multiplying deities and new
platforms are required for their self-proving demonstratings.
That stupendous thought-processes operate and bring new
planets to existence is the foregone conclusion.
Earth as one such planet thus "came” at a time in Cosmos
when an entirely new drama was to be worked out and
processes in evolution were to multiply and produce the
myriad organic creatures of today. But the thought to carry
away in the whole of it is the obvious circumstance that this
particular solar satellite became real, not to accommodate
266
Man so much as to add another unit in a stupendous aca­
demic institution, permitting the growth and development of
a definite number of creatures who must pass through ter­
restrial vicissitudes to gain into the heights of transcendent
effulgence. The Thought-Concept of it came first. Materi­
alism followed as a matter of course. Materialism is an in­
cidental product of the Divine Idea. But the Divine Idea
actualizes in Radiant Energy. In fact the Divine Idea, the
blueprint of what is wanted, is Radiant Energy. Thereat fol­
lows the incident of molecular creation.
TH
EC ELESTIA L year is composed of 26,860 solar years
or travelings of the planet around the sun. This Celes­
tial Year represents the complete cycle of the spiral nebula
in which Earth is a pinpoint, around and underneath the
circle of the constellations, each of which shed their radiant
cosmic rays upon all bodies making up the nebula. The earth
as a heavenly orb thus "passes beneath” twelve such constel­
lations in the Celestial Year’s course, conveniently identified
as the Signs of the Zodiac. Each Sign of the Zodiac is there­
fore the equivalent of a Celestial Month— representing 2,157
solar years. Thus each 2,157 solar years the ray-influences of
a different constellation play upon this planet, producing
alterations in man’s habits of living and in a measure of wor­
shiping. When man on earth passes under a constellation
identified as an Air Sign, he reaches the height of his achieve­
ments in matters and manners of Intellect. This is the period
of which Man is experiencing the opening phases, at present.
It is known in our passing celestial season as Aquarius.
Aquarius is one of three air signs each celestial year, the
267
others being Libra and Gemini. While the planet is passing
under each, everything of a mental nature pertains to the
air or atmosphere. Humanity entered Aquarius on or about
the solar year 1844 and has been progressing deeper and
deeper under the Aquarian influence ever since. It accounts
for man’s marvelous achievements in the fields of Aircraft,
Aerodynamics, Radio and Television, Electricity for power,
Psyches for interpretation of religious passages. It similarly
means that the old Piscean, or W ater-Sign religion under
which Christ came, is lessening in influence.
A t just what point intelligent creatures arrived on earth back
over the dispensations and began the long climb up to radiant
godhood, we have no means of knowing. The record has
long since blurred even in Cosmic histories. But fossil re­
mains indicate that man has been on this globe at least since
Miocene times, something like 10 million years ago. But
Jesus the Christ, whom we worship, has had the growth and
development of the man-race in charge ever since its incep­
tion. The Hebrews and theologians have whittled Him down
to the scope of their astronomical illiteracies. W e who are
becoming adepts in Soulcraft can take a more nearly accurate
and longer range view of Him.
H e is the great celestial Avatar Guardian, and Supervisor
of the man-races on this entire planet at present, and all the
grades and octaves of Consciousness enveloping the earth as
a solar satellite. In the advertising language of current times,
in other words, H e is M r. Big! It is to Him that the Greater
Guardians of all Cosmos look for accountability of the
planet’s progress and development of life spiritually and cul­
turally. He returns into the biologic fleshly form three times
268
per celestial year, manifesting psychically in each Air Sign.
But H e doesn’t rule by dictatorial fiat. H e rules by Incen­
tive, Compassion, Inspiration, M oral Suasion. Spiritual de­
velopment is accentuated by these. Human souls return into
organic life again and again till all necessity for further
incarnation is met and settled. The individual soul rises out
of all terrestrial conditions and fixations and proceeds in its
splendorful way up the stars. People are helped to overcome
their sins and indiscretions, not chastised for them.
So with such picture in our minds of the transcendent wis­
dom and parental solicitude of God, I can close this volume
with no more fitting composium than the following contri­
bution of The Avatar—whom all Soulcrafters regard in
warmest affection as their indispensable Elder Brother—
269
t
1
1
■
C
!
1
&
1
1
RBS5E5EEE
m
m (PHIjigmmwEimmO N I
,s°I have spoken . . .
1 I have given you a promise, I have sung a song, I have
bidden you to council with those who know wisdom; I have
given it my hand . .
Yet I say again, Greater wisdom shall come than this which
ye have heard as the day draweth nigh for the Plan among
men.
Perceive, ye beloved, that the thoughts of your hearts are as
manna for your souls; as ye ask, wisdom cometh; as ye seek,
knowledge shineth; thus are ye fed by the bread from many
waters; thus are ye slaked from the thirst that hath plagued
you.
Greater work hath man to do; greater leagues hath man to
run; in that ye bend to the yoke of your service, thus endeth
the labor, thus halteth the torment.
I say unto you, be calm, be patient, be noble, be strong.
The bow bendeth soon and the arrow flieth swiftly; the weak
have an arrow that heweth down the proud.
In that ye bend to the yoke of your destinies, thus have ye an
arrow, thus bend ye the bow.
In the knowledge that ye are called to plow a goodly furrow,
I bid that ye plow it and know the wheat’s increase.
Presently come those who take the plow from you; night
hath a solace, the labor is stilled; now I say plow in zeal,
looking only forward.
270
I have said that ye have a charge to keep, a lamp to hold
burning, an end to serve, a goal to win at the end of many
furrows; behold I have said more:
I say that ye shall in nowise come out of the world except ye
be adepts in that which wrought your entrance.
The world thinketh not, Whereof have I consciousness? It
saith unto itself, Behold the Lord God ordained us to suffer­
ing and we will have naught of Him.
I tell you that it is blasphemy to say that the Father hath
wrought suffering; suffering cometh only that mankind may
have wisdom, to look to its error, to discern its own fault.
Futher than this, I say not, beloved, for in that ye have heard
the brethren, so have ye heard my Spirit in communion.
Harbor no designs against your rich plowing, but perceive
the true meaning of that which ennobleth you.
I am ever that which enlightened and instructeth: I am the
Book, behold I am the lamp; I am he who readeth, I am he
who speaketh;
I am All in All . . . an eye for your foreheads.
Arise and be exceeding glad that it is so.
And now all together I tell you: Go in peace about that which
engageth you; presently ye shall see the Father’s works made
manifest.
A balsam shall assuage the wounds of your patience.
I breathe on you my calmness . . my poise is your redemption.
There is a fountainhead of Truth, whose everlasting waters
carry no pollution. Some seek it vainly, some drink of it
greedily, all have it poured upon them if they will but ap­
proach it.
I have wasted no moments in anxious longings; I have given
271
the world my life, that I, being godly, may make it godly
likewise;
I say that I have risen to the height of my stature, I have
asked no sinecure from those who are worldly, I have troubled
not myself with hungerings after circumstance;
I have wrought a great book, I have sung a high song, my
life hath been my neighbor’s;
Thus saith he who hath drunk of the W aters; thus saith he
who hath washed in that Fountain.
W e seek goodly deeds to do unto those who know the Ra­
diance; we perform in earthly substance the wishes of the
M ost High Spirit;
W e encounter no obstruction in vales of the worldly which
we penetrate not with our good offices;
W e arise and shine before men in the works of our Father;
W e seek no base advantage over those who walk in darkness,
but we bless them with wisdom, yea seven times seven;
Thus sing the circumspect, who pursue Truth and serve it.
My beloved, hear my voice. My transactings await you. I
come with a potion that restoreth your vigor. Your voice is
mine own. W e address the benighted.
Now I speak unto you in silence. Now I speak unto you in
tumult. I say, the times wax wroth but go with them into
service;
I give you your comings, I give you your commandments; I
prosper your goings, I bequeath you a brevet.
I tell you all together: W e serve, though men revile us; we
hasten with our aid even though they ignore us; we counsel
them continually.
W e serve because we serve. T o serve is our creation.
272
Know ye that men have a credit in this: that they see our
good works though they reason not their causes.
The enemy pursueth us seven times seven; he maketh us a
bitterness in that we see him not.
The world hath an emptiness of those who are radiant; be­
hold those of radiance are seen not of eye;
Mayhap they come unto you, bespeaking your missions: I say
unto you, receive them, but add to your speech no qualm of
hesitation that ye have been deceived when those who would
manifest deliver not in substance.
The righteous are the righteous on any plane of being.
Are there those among you whose imaginings have tricked
them? And wouldst ye say there is no sun, in that the sun
hath not shone at midnight?
I say unto you all together: Be wise, be wary, deliver not evil
unto yourselves saying it be goodness, but hold ye to good­
ness and manifest in wisdom, knowing that the Father who
made H is love to shine upon you will endow you with that
wisdom and give it benediction.
Lest it be said that there are those who advise you wickedly,
I tell you that the speech that is transcendent hath its hos­
tage in the heart; lo the speech that maketh mischief hath
its hostage in the mind.
The Father’s voice speaketh and the son’s heart respondeth,
sweet with vibration of that which is holy.
I speak unto your spirits the peace of sweet watchings!
I say that I have known of your misfortunes and transgres­
sions, I have heard your ill-advisings, behold I have endured
your whims’ procrastinations;
I have tasted of your bitterness, I have felt your self-deceiv-
273
ings; your allotments and apportionings of knowledge have
been mine. I have hungered for that substance which linger-
eth in the byways.
Could I do these things, beloved, and not know that Peace
hath its circumstance also?
Yet tryst not with circumstance as with an idle maiden. Re­
joice that your lips have the skill of the psalmist, that ye
manifest in tumult that Plan that hath its dignity, that your
will hath its mission when evil waxeth wroth and the times
show their talons.
A goodly heritage hath been borne unto those who labor
with thirst in the heat of the noonday.
The world hath its augury: the saints have played trumpets:
the wicked revile not the evil man nor give unto the stalwart
the means to a redemption.
Would ye, then, serve in a tiny vale, beloved? would ye
gather little fruits? would ye make your verses petty?
If the times have not an augury, why prate ye of treasure for
the laborer who hath labored?
Would ye work for little wages?
I tell you the strong man goeth forth where the rocks have
a sharpness, he lieth in wait for the prey that hath cunning,
he seeketh a valiance that trieth his sinew, he openeth his
wallet unto increments from penuries.
We criticize no man for that which he desireth: we seek
blessings for his judgments, that he may be wise in that
which he seeketh and out of his nobility provide himself with
nourishments.
I say unto you, beloved, Arise and lead the righteous! But
not as earthly chieftains whose stallions give them eminence.
274
We seek better steeds than caperings of circumstance for
us who would ride at the head of the whirlwind.
Hear ye mine utterance: Warn not your neighbor to flee
from God’s wrath, but teach him to know the scope of
God’s love;
Teach not the erring to revile their own sm, but bid sin be
gone in the name of the Father, that a holier order may
come upon earth and the world of Light manifest from
which Spirit first traveled.
The seasons have mocked you and made sport with your
learnings; Mammon hath threatened you; your teeth have
gnashed at him;
Is this the rejoicing? Is this the fat harvest?
I tell you lovelier days shall dawn when the prices on your
heads shall be garlands of roses.
There stand men to mock you and give you a contest; treat
with them justly, begging no protest; pursue the even tenor
of this just beseechment: The Lord God hath a resting place
for men of true knowledge; come and share it with us, par­
take of its refreshment.
Give unto him who asketh of you, and make no protest
when he who asketh, smiteth you. Let the wicked have their
voice that in the last days the miracle that cometh shall be
to them a wonderment.
They have seen and perceived not. They have heard and
discerned not. Beggaries smite them that come of the con­
science. There is no cavern of spirit that is emptier than
theirs; being bound of the adversary, their revilements are
their serfdoms.
I say, the wages of their mischiefs shall be exceeding high.
275
Perceivings and revilings are the order of the whirlwind, but
a better day approacheth when earth’s avenues have leisure.
Practice this in spirit: Say, I will labor to achieve a destiny,
I will ever be guided by die voice of aspiration, I will seek
no godless thing nor cast forth from mine heart any loving
memory of a loving deed performed by those who have
served me;
I will cherish their favors as being mine own, transmuted
for me into alchemies of blessings; I bestow on them sub­
stance as my purse doth provide and open their hearts to
the beauties of equities.
Thus say ye, beloved, to your brethren about you: I hide
an exceeding small ache from the fraught heart’s defections;
I translate and transcend all documents in mercies that have
bothered my soul by executions lacking, and I give unto
those who have wounded me the beggary of their knowledge
that they stand in my debt— in that guile entered into the
debt pact between us.
Now I tell you all together: Ye are famished for food of a
spiritual savor, that hath substance in nourishing, feeding the
hunger for that which hath permanence.
I say unto you, cast ye not forth that for which ye hunger—
the services of those who desist not in serving you—nor halt
their strivings for you by beggaries of intellect.
Be ye as staffs and trees in a land that is weary, that those
who travel with you may know their refreshment.
Persevere in well-doing, that those who come unto you may
know you by your labors, performed in my radiance . . .
276
( SO Y O U ARRIVE A T T H E EN D OF T H E V O LU M E
N A M ED EA RTH CO M ES T H A T W AS W R IT T E N
A N D IN SPIR A TIO N A LLY RECORDED FOR T H E
SO U LC R A FT A U D IE N C E A N D D O N E IN T O A
BOOK B Y SO U LC R A FT FELLO W SH IP, INCO RPO ­
RA TED , W H O SE A D D R ESS IN T H E A U T U M N OF
N IN E T E E N H U N D R E D A N D FIFTY -SEV EN IS
P O ST OFFICE BO X O N E H U N D R E D N IN E T Y -
TW O IN T H E C IT Y OF N O BLESV ILLE IN T H E
ST A T E OF IN D IA N A , IN T H E U N IT E D ST A T E S
OF AM ERICA, W EST ER N H EM ISPH ERE, P LA N ET
EA RTH , U N IV ER SE OF GOD 5 ?
