{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__mayan_order___the_miracle_power.pdf","mytitle":"The Miracle Power","mylang":"de"}
"T
iite Tìliiacle Pcwei
THE M A Y A N S
THE MAYAN PRESS
SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS
)
Copyright 1939 by
The Mayan Order
Del Rio, Texas
Printed in U. S- A,
ñ
W A L R M I W O !
To All In Whose Hands This Book May Fall:
DO NOT READ THIS BOOK . . . UNLESS YOU
ARE PREPARED TO READ STRANGE AND
WONDROUS TRUTHS
By this warning the mentally-unprepared may,
if they choose, avoid being startled by this new
Light on old Truths. But the mentally-developed
will delight in them.
If you have puzzled long over certain scrip­
ture passages, you may in these pages find Enlight­
enment. You will no longer need to struggle to ac­
cept,—or reject, because here if you seek, you will
find Understanding; that Rarest Gem, which Solo­
mon declared more precious even than Wisdom.
BE PREPARED, if you read even one page, to feel
something pulling you irresistibly back to
read them all.
BE PREPARED, if you read them all, that thoughts
herein will stay in your mind forever, and
will forever subtly change many of your
present habits of thinking. If you are fond
of thinking you will find new delights with
each repeated reading. For the words of this
book will conjure up ten thousand thoughts
of his own to the thinking reader and thus
aid his Spiritual Growth.
BE PREPARED, if you are a thinker, to grow
mentally. For each bit of thought you give
to these words will multiply within your
mind, increasing your capacity in exact pro­
portion as you give thought to it.
BE PREPARED, to ever after find new under­
standing and new enjoyment of your Church,
regardless of your Sect or Creed.
BE PREPARED, also, if you practice these teach­
ings and meditations, to find a Freedom from
all Worldly Limitations as a New Path opens
before your Enlightened Understanding, and
an opportunity to he one of us who uncover
the pyramids and find the ancient teachings
of an almost forgotten people.
THE MAYANS
T
/t« THhacle Pcwe’l
Prelude
I
N THIS AGE when the whole world seems to
have gone insane, when nations almost without
a struggle, vanish overnight, and Dictators strut
the earth, and millions of the earth’s good people
are confused and bewildered and suffering need­
lessly; Hie thinking person is forced to recognize
that the greatest need exists for a Power to
enable us to rise above the dust and turmoil of
international adjustments, the grime of greed and
the bloody lusts for authority; to rise above the
collapsing social systems; above vitiated monetary
systems, above the deteriorations and the reces­
sions, the demoralizations and the pollutions of
a waning, crumbling, moldering, blighted and cank­
ered civilization, into a realm where life may be
lived as our Maker intended that we should live it.
For it is not true, as many good Christian
people have been taught to believe, that “God willed
it so.”
It is not true, that it is His desire that His
children should starve in the midst of plenty, or
that the sons of men should hurl death and destruc­
tion from His grand blue vault of Heaven down
on the heads of their brothers.
It is not His will that millions of men are
being armed for a new Armageddon, or that Presi-
8
dents, Rulers and Kings should be plotting new
wars and new miseries for His children to suffer.
It is NOT true!
It IS true that instead, He placed within every
one of us a Miracle Power, a Power to over­
come lack and disease and misery, a Power to
rise above the horrors of a world gone mad, a
Power so wonderful that even in the midst of
despair it can provide us with all our needs, can
provide us with Peace, can provide us with Plenty.
It is a Power that DWELLS WITHIN US, a
Power that is ready for instant USE, a Power that
is ever present and available to those who will
but heed and learn to use it. It is not new. It is
as old as mankind. Countless great teachers
have proclaimed it. Their followers have been
many. But very few have understood the simple
Truth oE the world’s greatest teaching, as given
to mankind in the words of Christ Jesus, who said:
“YOU AND THE FATHER ARE ONE”
And He meant just that. YOU AND THE
FATHER ARE ONE. Your being is within
Him and He is therefore within You. And His
Power, His Miracle Power is therefore within
you, too. By this Power YOU can accom­
plish Miracles. With this Power you CAN
do Wonders. Through this POWER you can
enter Paradise right here on Earth.
Memorize this Paragraph. Read it again and
Understand it. BELIEVE IT. Then read on and
start USING it.
What is needed to discover this Power?
Only one thing. You need, you MUST have,
a Freedom From Doubt. Or, to state the same thing
more affirmatively, you must have FAITH.
Faith in What?
Faith in God. Faith in His Supremacy. Faith
in His Miracle Power, indwelling WITHIN YOU.
For that is where God resides. He is not some
ancient Person, existing vaguely somewhere, far
off in the skies. He is within YOU, and through
YOU—and all about YOU—EVERYWHERE. He is
through all the Universe because He IS the Uni­
verse, the Everything; the ALL IN ALL. And YOU,
beloved, are a part of the ALL; therefore YOU are
a part of Him.
His powers are Your Powers to call upon. In
this way are WE ALL made “in His Image” .
Nowhere in the ancient writings, of the Bible or
other Holy Books, is it taught that we look like
God. That is a modern misconception. But in all of
the ancient books it is taught that we are His chil­
dren, His creation, and that His love is showered
upon us. Meditate upon this, that Ye may possess
the Light of Understanding.
GOD HATH SPOKEN ONCE,
TWICE HAVE I HEARD THIS,
THAT POWER BELONGETH UNTO GOD.
ALSO UNTO THEE, O LORD,
BELONGETH LOVING KINDNESS;
FOR THOU RENDEREST TO EVERY MAN
ACCORDING TO HIS WORKS.
Psalms 62: 11, 12
Contents
i
THE COMING CONFLAGRATION
Character Building—Cultivation of Culture—Three
Important Things—Giving and Receiving—Faith and
Power—Seek Ye His K in g d om ............................................ 13
n
WHAT THE MIRACLE POWER IS
Natural Miracles—Loss and An Enemy—Gain and
a F r i e n d ..................................................................................21
m
GOD IS ALL . . . ALL IS GOD
The Spirit of Life—Spirit Never Rests—All Life Is
Eternal—What Man Is—The Cosmic “All” and Man—
Growth of Mind, Spirit and Soul—Our Evolving Con­
sciousness—Our Evolving Character—In the Image of
‘ God—The Triune Transmitters of P o w e r .........................25
IV
MIRACLES
A Visit to “A Place of Miracles”—No Quarrel With
Science—Famous Scientists Agree—Dr. Carrel’s Exper­
ience—Understanding the Power—A New World Opens—
God’s Power is Not L im it e d ................................................37
12 CONTENTS
V
“WHAT THINGS SOEVER YE DESIRE”
Biblical Testimony—No One Need Fail—The Secret
Re-Stated—What Is Required—A Grand Conception—
The Power Awaits—The Great Assurance—The Re-
Avowal—Ask and Ye Shall Receive—All Things Are
Mine—Doubt N o t .................................................................45
V I
THE GREAT BROTHERHOOD
An Ancient Wisdom Society—When You Have Need
—Faith Provides—What Do You Seek?—Two Kinds of
People—Talk With God Daily—How to Pray—Reason
For a Written Prayer . . . ................................ 57
vn
HOW TO MANIFEST THE MIRACLE POWER
We Make Our Own Conditions—Get Understanding
— Daily Meditation —■
Gain Understanding of This —
Think Deeply That Ye May Know — The Next
Twelve Months and You—How Affirmations Work—A
Daily Practice — The Blessed Nearness — Every Day —
Final W o r d s ........................................ . . . . 67
v ra
.....................................79
Special Guidance
Chapter One
7L Coming Con^lacj’iatioM
.
"And when ye shall hear of wars: and rumors of wars,
be ye not troubled: for such things must needs be: but the
end shall not be yet.
For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against
kingdom: and there shall be earthquakes in divers
places, and there shall be famines: these things are the
beginning of travail." — Mark 13: 7, 8
Just now, when all the signs of a great travail
to come, are appearing again, men everywhere are
seeking a way in which to weather the storm. In a
world of plenty the people of the earth are in
want. Governments forbid the people to possess
gold while the governments themselves struggle to
possess it, buy it at deliberately artificial prices,
then bury it in a hole in the earth from which it
was drawn. All the world is wondering what will
come next, the people are filled with fear and men
of means are worried about how they will preserve
what they have during the next several years.
Roger Babson, the world’s most quoted finan­
cial advisor, in his book “If Inflation Comes”, is
able to offer only one investment as a hedge
against the days to come. He reviews all possible
types of investments, then points out the dangers,
the unsubstantiality of them all when inflation
comes.
14 Character Building
“There is no way to make money,” he says,
“during a period of inflation. The reason is that if
you sell to take a profit, there is nothing to buy
which has not gone up as much as what you sell!”
In this book Babson goes on to point out that
Stocks, Bonds, Real Estate, Railroads, Manufactur­
ing, Shipping, none of these make a safe invest­
ment during inflation. The employee and the em­
ployer are equally harassed. The man with money
soon finds himself no better off than the man with­
out money.
“There is only one REAL hedge against infla­
tion,” says Babson, “and that is, an investment in
CHARACTER.”
“One of the great difficulties today is, that dur­
ing recent years, voting privileges have increased
through Universal suffrage; transportation has in­
creased through automobiles; vision has increased
through moving pictures; hearing has been multi­
plied a thousand times through the radio. Yet in
that same period there has been almost no increase
in the nation’s character;—that is, in our Faith,
Self-Control, Judgment and Courage. A sane faith,
with a philosophy of life is of great worth irrespec­
tive of the value of the dollar.”
Babson then points out that in order to possess
Character, we must have culture,—not necessarily
the culture that comes from an attendance at
Cultivation of Culture 15
college, but, as he puts it, “We were created with a
brain and with the power to see and hear, as well as
with a stomach with the power to eat and sleep,”—
and he shows how culture brings pleasure and
joy even iii simple things and thus it too, is a
hedge against the day that is approaching.
A man cannot be poor if he has friends. For
friendships are the realest of riches and neither are
they subject to the fluctuating values of inflation.
Thus, friendship, says this great man of the financial
world, is a very real hedge against inflation.
“True friends understand us, sympathize with
us, and always trust us. Moreover, most of us do
not know who our real friends are until we do
have troubles.”
Then Babson points out a most profound truth.
He says, “If a nation should spend one-twentieth for
helping other nations and developing friendships
with other nations, what it spends on battleships
and armament, how much better off the world
would be.” .
And in this statement Babson reveals his own
development of Character, Culture and that feeling
for humanity that we mean when we speak of
Divine Love.
These three, Character, Culture and Love,
in our makeup, is what determines the vol­
tage of our Miracle Power. We all possess this
16 Three Important Things
Power but with some, it is static, inactive or
lethargic. But by stirring up these three,
by activating them through contact with
their Source, we make the Miracle Power
active in our lives and through us affect other
lives.
Verily, it is true, if we would give but a frac­
tion to others of the effort expended to beat them
or surpass them, the whole world would be bettered,
but most particularly would we ourselves be
improved. It was stated many years ago in these
words:
“GIVE AND IT SHALL BE GIVEN UNTO
YOU; GOOD MEASURE; PRESSED DOWN,
SHAKEN TOGETHER, RUNNING OVER.”
But permit me to quote the final words of
Babson in his remarkable book written for the
guidance of the moneyed men of our country, if
inflation comes. He says:
“A final thought . . . I must say one word
about prayer, quietness and worship. Al­
though I am a horrible example and perhaps
a hypocrite in the minds of many, I would
be much worse were it not for my daily
‘quiet hour’. As soon as possible after lunch
each day, I take a brief nap, after which I
have a quiet twenty minutes in private wor­
ship. The busier my day and the greater my
17
Giving and Receiving
responsibilities, the more particular I am to
have this quiet period. I try to read a little
scripture, a short prayer . . . . and then
spend a few minutes in Meditation.
“Faith and Power has come to me during these
short daily quiet periods. I EARNESTLY RECOM­
MEND THEM TO EVERY READER.
“Periods of Meditation are absolutely free, like
the air and sunshine, equally to everyone. There
are no exceptions to this statement. This is another
proof that the most valuable things, the most won­
derful things, and the most beautiful things, are
not the advertised, commercial and popular things,
The ‘still small voice’ which comes to one in quiet­
ness and worship is a thousand times more impor­
tant.”
If Babson were not already known as a great
man, as a man unique in the American scene, these
words of his would alone testify to his greatness,
his perception, his culture and his character. For
he proves by these words, if not by his tremendous
wealth, that he has found the Key to The Miracle
Power,—that he has discovered the door by which
to enter the inner world where one may draw
Strength and Wisdom direct from the Creator who
is in and through the Universe.
Small wonder that he has been able to ac­
curately predict for years every major upward
18 Faith and Power
swing or downward swoop of the stock market and
to help countless investors to attain wealth;—small
wonder,—for he has touched The Miracle Power.
Small wonder that he realizes that money,
as money, is worth very little. That the things of
real value, of lasting worthwhileness, are the im­
material things that only grow stronger and great­
er in adversity. Make the most of this wise man’s
advice.
Develop your CHARACTER, gain in CUL­
TURE, develop FRIENDSHIPS, express DIVINE
LOVE.
In the words of Jesus as written in Luke 12:22
to 34:
"And He said unto His disciples, 'Therefore I say unto
you, be not anxious for your life, what ye shall eat; noi
yet for your body what ye shall put on.
For the life is more than the food, and the body than
the raiment
Consider the ravens, that they sow not, neither reap;
which have no store chamber nor barn; and God feedeth
them; of how much MORE value are ye than the birds.
And which of you by being anxious can add a cubit
unto the measure of his life? .
"But if God doth so clothe the grass m the field, which
today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven; how much
more shall He clothe you, O ye of little faith?
"And seek not what ye shall eat, and what ye shall
drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind. For all these
19
Seek Ye His Kingdom
things do the notions of the world seek after; but your
Father knoweth that ye have need of these things.
"Seek ye His kingdom, and these things shall be added
unto you.
"Fear not little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure
to give you the kingdom.
"Sell what you have, and give alms; make for yourselves
purses which wax not old, a treasure in the heavens that
faileth not, where no thief drawetb near, neither moth
destroyeth,
"For where your treasure is, there will your heart be
also."
Purses which wax not old,—CHARACTER,
CULTURE, FRIENDSHIP, and DIVINE LOVE,...
'i
1
»
>
1
i
il
r
,
i'
i
u
ii1
i1
1
Chapter Two
Wltat T
/te Tflilacle Powel 0s
Let us start by sayiiig that the Miracle Power
is not anything supernatural, in the sense that it
transcends or supersedes nature. Instead it is the
essence of Natural Power, for it is the Power of
God.
“If it is natural, how then, is it miraculous?'’
you may ask.
It is miraculous only because it is so different
from what most of us have experienced,—we have
drifted so far away from God,—from the natural,
the real and the genuine. We live in a world of
machines and clocks, where time is measured out
in neat little sharp cornered parcels of seconds,
minutes, hours, days and weeks. We exist in such
a multiplicity of man-made laws that each day we
transgress many of them, and so fear the conse­
quences that we give little thought to God’s laws.
We so fear being unable to pay the rent or to
buy food that our thoughts are all of snatching and
grabbing instead of giving and loving. We scurry
and sweat and beat and rob in our competition for
Success,—then wonder why it is that we get back
from the world we compete against, the same sort
of meannesses.
“Self-protection makes this necessary,” you
say?
22 Natural Miracles
No, my friend, you are wrong if you believe that.
Was it really self-protection that caused Hitler
to take Czecho-Slovakia, or caused Mussolini to
take Ethiopia, or caused Japan to enter China? I
think not. Nor is it self-protection to gain person­
al advancement by beating down a fellow-worker,
or to show him up, or to stand upon a fallen foe and
crush him into the mire.
Let me show you instead how reasonable and
right the Miracle way works.
Suppose that you were employed in an office.
It would be natural that you desired advancement
to a better post that paid more money.
Now suppose that there was working with you,
another person who might stand in the way of
your promotion according to your views. That is,
we’ll say, he was older in point of service and first
in line for the better position. Now suppose that
you knew that he was a shirker or that he did not
do his work well. You could find several ways to
show him up, perhaps even cause him to lose his
job, and thus climb over his shoulders to the
better position. That is the way most ambitious
people TRY to get ahead.
But even if one succeeds in getting ahead in
that manner, he has made an enemy. An enemy
who will undoubtedly try to get revenge. But
whether he succeeds in hurting you or not, you
2G
Loss and An Enemy
will have lost some of the esteem of your fellow-
workers. And even if they never know by what
trick you did it, you will have lost something of
Character and your own self-esteem, which is the
worst loss of all.
Now, suppose instead, you were to apply The
Miracle Power of GIVING. Suppose, instead of plot­
ting against your shirking fellow worker, suppose
you gave him your help; your assistance and your
friendship. Suppose by Your Example, you did
everything possible to make him a better worker, a
more honest employee. If you succeed, your firm is
better able to give you both an increase in salary.
If you succeed, your department begins to boom,
to attract the attention of the man that gives the
raises. And he will soon discover for himself who
deserves advancement the most. You have made a
friend of the one who would have been an enemy,
you have gained the esteem of your fellow-workers,
and you have grown in Character and in Self-Con­
fidence, and you have helped your firm to greater
Success. You have made a worker out of a shirker,
and you have gained the promotion which you de­
sired, but best of all, you can apply the same
principle again and again for future promotions
and advancements.
“ GIVE AND YOU SHALL RECEIVE:
GOOD MEASURE, PRESSED DOWN,
24 Gain and a Friend
SHAKEN TOGETHER, RUNNING OVER.”
That is the teaching to follow to work miracles.
But you must notice that word, “Give” comes
first. And you must GIVE in good measure and
pressed down and running over. For accordingly
as you Give, will you most surely Receive.
The above is but ONE example of the giving.
But the principle applies to everything in
life. EVERYTHING! It is one of God’s Miracles.
It is TRUE. It is therefore LAW. It does not fail.
There are no exceptions to it, if the giving be genu­
ine. Rewards always come from giving. True, the
rewards may be somewhat different than we an­
ticipate. Or they may come in some way other than
we expect, but come they do,—ALWAYS.
God’s first act of creation as recorded in Gen­
esis was to give the Gift of Light. By the Light
we are able to see, and thereby to Understand.
By the Light of Understanding, we develop
THE MIRACLE POWER. And the Miracle Power
in turn will Light up your Understanding so that
it shines back; reflecting back to its source and
giving out to all others—a Guiding Light—a light
to illuminate other minds,—and still others,—until
by all thè galaxy of their shining, heaven itself is
duplicated right here on earth.
Can you feel it?—There IS a Guiding Light
leading you . . . .
Chapter Three
C
jo
b OlLOll d
s C
jo
i
When I was a child I often used to look up into
the sky and imagine 1 would someday build a ladder
up to the beautiful fleecy clouds, there to dwell
happily away from all the beating turbulence of
the life about me. And again at night I would gaze
up at the moon and stars sailing so serenely in
space.
But at night there seemed such a vast emptiness
between me and the stars,—so much vacancy. My
Understanding then was that all this space between
was a sort of vacuum. Later, I learned that the
seeming emptiness was filled,—with a peculiar
substance that scientists called “ether”, but it still
seemed rather empty and lonely to me.
It was not until I grew up that I learned the
saying that “nature abhors a vacuum” and it be­
gan to dawn on me that all this vast, limitless,
infinite, space was filled to the brim with the real-
est sort of substance. Invisible to human eyes, yet
substantial enough to support the weight of the
earth and all the countless millions of planets that
float on their courses through it. A Universe,—
ALL of Creation, filled and brimming with the
Spirit of Life,—I came at last to realize that this
26 The Spirit of Life
invisible substance, this Spirit of Life, also pene­
trated everything.
Science now recognizes part of this Truth, in
its efforts to discover how “Cosmic Rays” have the
power to change, to metamorphose into visible
material substance. But I have learned that every­
thing constantly changes,—that nothing remains as
it is, nor quite as it was, but moves as though in a
tremendous spiraling circle within itself. The earth
has its orbit, but the orbit too has a path that spirals
endlessly on through other circles. And the spirit
of life crystallizes into some material form, animates
it for a time, then leaves it for the greater freedom
of immaterial, existence, and all the stars, the
planets, the comets, the constellations change, even
as do I.
And things that seem unchanging here on earth
do change, but at different rates of speed, some­
times too rapid, sometimes too slow for our limited
physical range of perception. We can watch the
sea waves roll and break on a rocky shore, but we
are not aware that very slowly this same motion
is occurring on the land surface of the earth. We can
see the mountain ranges and they seem unchanging,
but it is difficult for us to realize that they are
even now slowly rising, breaking and falling, dup­
licating exactly the actions of the ocean’s waves.
We hear of earthquakes occurring here and there on
27
Spirit Never Rests
the earth’s surface, but we do not think of them as
being akin to an exploding surf. Their movement
is so slow compared to our rate of perception.
A glacier’s movement is measurable though
scarcely visible to our perceptive range. But how
unutterably fast its motion; how furiously brief its
life, compared to geological time. And on the other
hand, compare the slow beat of time on the Rocky
Mountains and their life span, compared to the
brief few hours that encompasses birth, maturity
and old-age for the drosiphila or fruit-fly.
Change, Change, Change everywhere, constant,
ceaseless, unending change. Nothing in physical life
is eternal but change. But all change follows a
pattern, the difference being chiefly one of fre­
quency; of vibratory speeds. Over and under and
through it all is One Principle of LIFE ETERNAL;
but constantly working, churning, growing, chang­
ing, evolving. There is no standing still in the Uni­
verse.
The snail crawls his course, the man walks
his path, the bird flies his span, the earth rolls its
orbit and the Universe spirals a circular space.
Seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks, months, years,
decades, epochs, eras, ages, eons, cycles, all are in
motion. Nothing stands still. Everything moves,—
and changes as it goes.
28 A ll Life Is Eternal
A single bit of protoplasm is used in modem
laboratories to demonstrate the eternal qualities of
life, even in the physical form. Dr. Alexis Carrel at
Rockefeller Institute, has not only kept a piece of
chicken heart alive, but growing, in a chemical
solution for a period now approaching thirty years.
It lives by growing and grows by living.
And thus, this insensate bit of flesh living far,
far, beyond its normal lifetime should teach us all
a secret: “Grow, by living, O Proud man;—Live,
by growing, for you cannot stand still. You must
either shrivel and die,—or grow. Expand your in­
terests, grow in mentality, develop your immortal
soul, feed your eternal spirit. Grow,—by Living.”
In the preface of his book, “Man the Unknown”,
our good Companion Dr. Alexis Carrel points out
one of the cardinal teachings of our Mayan Order,
sponsors of the Society of the Guiding Light. He
says:
“. . . . Because men cannot follow modem
civilization along its present course, because
they are degenerating,—they have been fas­
cinated by the beauty of the sciences of inert
matter. They have not understood that their
body and consciousness are subjected to
natural laws, more obscure than, but as in­
exorable as, the laws of the sidereal world.
Neither have they understood that they can-
W hat M an Is 29
not transgress these laws without being pun­
ished. They must, therefore, learn the neces­
sary relations of the cosmic universe, of their
fellow men, and of their inner selves, and
also those of their tissues and their mind.”
Speaking of chemical relations of the body,
Carrel says:
“Man is, first of all, a nutritive process. He
consists of a ceaseless motion of chemical, sub­
stances. One can compare him to the flame of a
candle, or to the fountains playing in the gardens
of Versailles. Those beings, made of burning gases
or of water, are both permanent and transitory.
Their existence depends on a stream of gas or
liquid. Like ourselves, they change according to the
quantity and the quality of the substances which
animate them.
“As a large river coming from the external
world and returning to it, matter perpetually flows
through all the cells of the body. During its passing,
it yields to tissues the energy they need, and also
the chemicals which build the temporary and fragile
structures of our organs and humors. The corporeal
substratum of all human activities originates from
the inanimate world and, sooner or later, goes back
to it. Our organism is made from the same elements
as ‘lifeless things’.
30 The Cosmic "All" and Man
“Therefore we should not be surprised, as
some modem physiologists still are, to find at work
within our own self the usual laws of physics and
of chemistry as they exist in the cosmic world.
Since we are parts of the material universe, the
absence of these laws are unthinkable.”
Indeed this is true. One Universe and One
Creator which is Eternal,—and we are parts of the
All. We cannot transgress the Laws of the Universe
without being punished. We live and grow Mentally
and Spiritually by what we feed upon. We change
according to the quantity and the quality of the
substances we feed upon. And this is true of you,
in each of the departments of your being, of your
physical body, of your Mind, your Spirit and your
Soul.
Long years ago a wise man said, “Thoughts,
are things.”
In other words, thought, is the immaterial sub­
stance. The architect, the inventor, the writer, all
create first in thought, then build the material
substance into the pattern which they first created
mentally. You can do this with your life. The same
principle applies.
First, visualize what you want to be. Not in
an idle, dreamy, wishful sort of way, but dynamical­
ly, definitely and with a strong lasting DESIRE.
Create the Vision. Make it definite,—exactly what
Growth of Mind- Spirit cmd Soul 31
you want to be. See yourself being it. Then start
living the part.
If you hold that vision unchangingly, live that
part unwaveringly, you gradually grow that way
until you actually become what you want to be.
It matters little what it is. No matter how remote
it may seem from your present personality. You
Can become anything you wish to be if you BE­
LIEVE that you can, and live the part constantly.
You grow by living, and your growth is a ceaseless
changing according to the quantity and the quality
of the substances which animate you. And that
quantity and quality are determined by the sub­
stance of your THINKING.
The greater part of you is invisible. We are
all inclined to visualize ourselves according
to our physical appearances, thinking con­
sciously only of our physical body. But Mind
is greater than body. And so is our Spirit
and so is our Soul. Yet these three parts of
You, even though greater than the body in
importance because they are truly immortal,
are all invisible to our present perceptive-
abilities. How much more important it is to
give them substance, to animate them that
they may live and grow, than merely to feed
the physical part.
32 Our Evolving Consciousness
We know that if we do not feed the physical
body at all, it will wither and die. We know that we
cannot transgress this law without being punished.
How much more essential it is that we also feed the
Mental, Spiritual and Soul bodies of our being. For
we cannot transgress the Law here either. But if
instead, we live in harmony with the Law, trans­
gressing it not, our capacity is increased in pro­
portion to our growth. Our abilities enlarge and
multiply. Our joys increase with our appreciations.
In this way, and this is the real way, we attain
Heaven, no matter where our physical body may
be, and even though it may cease to exist as a
physical body.
So now we turn to the question of what con­
stitutes food for our invisible bodies, and how such
substance may be fed and how its quality may be
determined. Which brings us to the first miracle,—
the Miracle of The Guiding Light,—that “some­
thing” which we perceive at first only dimly and
deep within our consciousness and which we usually
refer to as our conscience. The voice of conscience
is tied up very closely with that Recording Angel
which dwells in our Soul and which we call Char­
acter.
The Miracle is this,—that in every act and in
every thought we think, the Angel records, either
good or bad, and something glows within us, like
33
Our Evolving Character
a light showing us the right way, while an inner
voice speaks, telling us what is right for us to do.
We can close our consciousness to the Light,
and we can ignore the Voice if we choose, but we
can never blot out the record on our Character and
if we transgress we will be punished and if we do
right we will be rewarded. Long after active
memory has allowed us to forget, the record stands
imperishable. The Miracle is in the sure knowledge
of which is right and which is wrong, which flashes
into our consciousness. We can numb our conscious­
ness to it by repeated transgressing, by refusing
to heed it, by ignoring it, but we cannot escape the
punishment. Or, we can attune our consciousness
to it and eventually avoid all error and not only
that, but by ever closer attunement even become
prodigies, accomplishing all manner of miracles.
For that inner voice, that Guiding Light, is the
part of us that is “in the image of God”.
It never fails to distinguish good from evil
regardless of how we may attempt to deceive our
conscious selves. For most certainly if God is All-
Powerful, then He is Universal* Omnipresent, and
Omnipotent. And, it follows that if the Creator of
All is Universal, then we are a small part of Him.
He therefore dwells in us. And, necessarily, we,
therefore, have our being in Him.
34 In the Image of God
If His Power extends in and through all the
Universe and we are a part of the Universe, it also
extends in and through us. We, therefore, possess
a small part of His Power. Thus, are we in His
image.
At least a small part of His wisdom is in us and
by learning to attune our consciousness to it, we
can become many times wiser than we are when
depending on our conscious wisdom. Not in His
“shape”, but in His Image.
The key to becoming more perfectly in His
Image is our Imagination. For “Creative’ Imagi­
nation is also a department of our Soul-body. The
Path is Faith. The means, is Meditative Prayer.
These three, Creative Imagination, Faith and
Meditative Prayer are the triune transmitters of
The Miracle Power.
The Miracle Power comes from God Himself
and is given unto all mankind. That we possess it
is evidence that we ARE made in His image.
“And God created man in his own image, in
the image of God created he him; male and
female created he them. And God blessed
them;”
The above passage is from Genesis 1:27 and
refers to the SPIRITUAL Creation of Man in the
Image of.God. But it is not until later, in Genesis
2:7 that we are told of man’s PHYSICAL shaping.
The Triune Transmitters of Power 35
“And Jehovah God formed man of the dust
of the ground and breathed into his nostrils
the breath of life . . .
Our likeness to our Creator, is not in the phy­
sical body but in the three higher bodies of Mind,
Spirit and Soul which compose our Immortal Be­
ing. God is all, and All is God.
Thus have I been taught by The Mayans.
Thus do I believe............
Chapter Four
Itih
a
c
le
s
Upon entering the lovely little Prayer-Room
maintained by the Society of THE GUIDING
LIGHT, one finds at his right side, a stained-
glass window reaching up to the ceiling, and
picturing the ascended Christ. Directly be­
fore him is a prayer-altar where daily prayer
is observed by certain of The Meditators,
trained members of the higher degrees of
Mayanry, the student Order of Mystics who
sponsor The Society of The Guiding Light.
A carillon chimes softly at the appointed time
of the Angelus Call when members of this Order
everywhere, from the Atlantic seaboard to far off
Hawaii, from the mountains of Central America to
Northernmost Alaska, stop whatever they are doing
and in unison turn their thoughts in Meditative
Prayer for all those who have called upon The
Society of The Guiding Light.
Hushed and shadowy is this room. One’s eyes
must become accustomed to the light streaming
through the window before he becomes aware of
the long rows of cabinets standing like pews and
containing at least ten thousand prayers.
And as the Ceremony of The Angelus Call
continues, one seems to actually feel the thoughts
38 A Visit to "A Place of Miracles'
of faith and hope coming into this holy place from
ten thousand supplicants. A mysterious breeze
springing seemingly from nowhere rustles the
written prayers as though Angel hands were touch­
ing them, while the prayer-period progresses.
And to this place an increasing tide of written
prayers pour in. Each new day’s mail brings joyous
messages of relief, of gladness, of success, of Prayers
fulfilled, of miracles. With each glad tale of a faith
fulfilled, of a miracle, new converts are made and
new names of people appear, who wish to try a
“written prayer”. ‘
The Preceptor in charge explains to me that
often when one is deeply troubled and he can see
no way open before him, he may become confused
and find it difficult to concentrate his thoughts
upon a spoken prayer. But the very act of writing
necessitates concentration. The act of sending a
written prayer to this far away cloistered room,
stimulates the imagination. The testimony of others
who have experienced miraculous results creates an
attitude of expectancy so necessary for gaining re­
sults. The knowledge of the good works performed
and the sincerity of the many minds united in
Prayer over all of North America gives faith to the
wavering. Small wonder that so many miracles
have been reported here.
39
No Quarrel W ith Science
Medical science has long been divided in its
opinions on the healings accomplished through
prayer. Yet I have noted that the older physicians
and the most famous scientists are usually first to
declare that miracles do happen. It is usually the
young “know-it-alls” who are not yet convinced.
This does not mean that in Mayanry, science
is discounted. On the contrary, in the wonderful
Revelations which all members receive, the world’s
great scientists and their opinions are reviewed and
many are startled to learn that there is no quarrel
between science and religion, when the science is
deep and the religion real. True, there are surface
misunderstandings on both sides, but these foolish
divergences are comparable to the quarrel of
kindergarten children on a subject like higher
mathematics.
So few people today seem to realize that
the Holy Bible is a collection of books by
many authors. So few today are able, let
alone versed in an understanding of parables
and symbols. So few even suspect that there
is still a deeper wisdom, hidden in certain
parts of the Bible, but Mayans know this.
A smattering of science often leads to a Sunday
supplement sort of an opinion concerning ancient
beliefs and ideas. A materialistic sort of person
never enters into the higher realms of science but
40 Famous Scientists Agree
often someone is called a scientist by the news­
papers, because he peers earnestly through a tele­
scope or occasionally holds a test-tube in his hand.
Among the real men of science today, to name
only a few who have expressed themselves for re­
ligion and miracles, I list: Kirtley F. Mather, pro­
fessor of Geology, Harvard University; Heber D.
Curtis, director of the Detroit observatory of the
University of Michigan; Edwin G. Conklin, pro­
fessor of Zoology, Princeton University; George
Thomas White Patrick, professor of Philosophy, the
University of Iowa; William McDougall, professor
of Psychology, Duke University; Sir J. Arthur
Thompson, author of “The Outline of Science”, etc.;
Harlan T. Stetson, director of Perkins Observatory,
Ohio Wesleyan University; Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr.
Robert Milliken, Dr. J. Malcolm Bird, Dr. Albert
Einstein and Dr. Alexis Carrel.
Dr. Carrel started his study of Miracles through
prayer in 1902, and today does not feel that his
study is completed. He became interested in prayer­
healing because he felt that no physician was truly
capable unless he studied this mode of healing as
well as medicine and surgery. At that time it was
dangerous for a young doctor’s future career to be
known to study such a subject.
Today all this is considerably changed. At
Lourdes, France, a great healing center exists where ’
41
Dr. Carrel's Experience
any physician may observe the patients and examine
the records kept in the Medical Bureau. In fact,
at this place an International Medical Association
of many members maintain a center. A large liter­
ature is steadily growing on the subject of miracu­
lous healing while physicians are becoming more
and more interested in the extraordinary facts.
Dr. Carrel himself says:
“Prayer should be understood, not as a me­
chanical recitation of formulas, but as a
mystical elevation, an absorption of con­
sciousness in the contemplation of a principle
both permeating and transcending our world.
Such a psychological state is not necessarily
purely intellectual. It is incomprehensible
to philosophers and scientists . . . . But (one
must) seem to feel God as easily as the heat
of the sun or the kindness of a friend. The
prayer which is followed by organic effects
is of a special nature . . . . Man offers him­
self to God. He stands before Him like the
canvas before the painter or the marble be­
fore the sculptor. At the same time he asks
for His grace, exposes his needs and those
of his brothers in suffering.
“Generally, the patient who is cured is not praying
for himself, but for another. Such a type of prayer
demands complete renunciation—that is, a higher
42 Understanding the Power
form of asceticism. The modest, the uneducated,
and the poor seem more capable of this self-denial
than the rich . . . . When it possesses such char­
acteristics, prayer may set in motion a strange
phenomenon, the Miracle.
“In all the countries, at all times, people have
believed in the existence of Miracles, in the more or
less rapid healing of the sick at places of pilgrim­
age, at certain sanctuaries. But after the great
impetus of science during the nineteenth century,
such belief completely disappeared. It was generally
admitted, not only that Miracles did not exist, but
that they could not exist. As the laws of thermo­
dynamics make perpetual motion impossible, phy­
siological laws oppose miracles. Such is still the
attitude of most physiologists and physicians, How­
ever, in view of the facts observed during the last
fifty years, this attitude cannot be sustained . . . .
Our present conception of the influence of Prayer
upon pathological lesions is based upon the obser­
vation of patients who have been cured almost
instantaneously of various affections, such as periton­
eal tuberculosis, cold abscesses, osteitis, suppurating
wounds, lupus, cancer, etc. The process of healing
changes little from one individual to another.
“Often, an acute pain. Then a sensation of being
cured. In a few seconds, a few minutes, at most
a few hours, wounds are cicatrized, pathological
43
A New W orld Opens
symptoms disappear, appetite returns. Sometimes
functional disorders vanish before the anatomical
lesions are repaired. The skeletal deformations of
Pott’s disease, the cancerous glands, may still per­
sist several days after the healing of the main les­
ions. The Miracle is chiefly characterized by an
extreme acceleration of the processes of organic
repair.
“There is no doubt that the rate of cicatrization of
the anatomical defect is much greater than the
normal one. The only condition indispensible to the
occurrence of the phenomenon is prayer.
“But there is no need for the patient himself to
pray, or even to have any religious faith. It is suffi­
cient that someone around him be in a state
of prayer. Such facts are of profound significance.
They show the reality of certain relations, of still
unknown nature, between psychological and organic
processes. They prove the objective importance of
the spiritual activities which hygienists, physicians,
educators and sociologists have almost always neg­
lected to study. They open to man a new world.”
While our experience does not agree exactly
with all of Dr. Carrel’s findings, we feel that in
the main he has considerably understated the full
story that could be told.
Take the case of our brave little Band that we
speak of so often in our other publications, known
44 G od's Power Is Not lim ited
as “The Borrowed Timers.” Made up solely of
people whose physicians had given them up, they
live on, far past the time predicted for them, and
since they were organized have not experienced
a single death, and in fact, have only called a phy­
sician once.
Here is an entire community, each one of whom
has a case history of tremendous interest to any
sincere investigative body. Or, consider our daily
mail with its accounts of sight restored, tumors
dissolving, cancers disappearing and many other
results equally miraculous perhaps, but in fields far
removed from healing. Those who subscribe to our
publications, Divine Meditation, or The Good Com­
panion, read each month of many Miracles not only
of healing, but in every department of human needs.
Indeed there is a wonderful power abroad in
the land—THE MIRACLE POWER. The
Power you possess in dormant form, but
which you may activate for anything you
want through the triune transmitters, of
Creative Imagination, Faith and Prayer. Any­
thing! God’s power is not limited. Nothing is
difficult with Him. His greatest gift is yours
for the effort of asking in Faith, visualizing
in Faith and making the Prayer of Faith.
For by these do you receive The Miracle
Power . . . .
Chapter Five
"W
lta
t T
h
in
g
s £
o
e
O
e
\íje D
esile”
We are deeply grateful to Dr. Carrel for his
open-minded, truly scientific attitude toward mira­
cles. Recognized as one of the ten greatest living
scientists today, we are aware of the courage this
required of him as a young doctor back in 1902.
That “the psychological state necessary for mir­
acles is incomprehensible to philosophers”, we must
however, deny. And we feel that the denial de­
mands no proof in that it was the great philosophers
of all ages who gave the Laws that govern the
appearance of The Miracle Power.
That all men do not succeed in always accom­
plishing the Miracles does not disprove that it
works as a Law. All men could apply the rules
of addition, but when some get the wrong total that
does not disprove mathematics. Nor does man’s
open, or private, lack of faith disprove the law of
,The Miracle Power.
For few indeed are those who actually, both
inwardly and outwardly, BELIEVE the plain teach­
ings of the greatest Miracle Maker among men.
He stated the law repeatedly and in many varied
phrasings. It was written down by several of His
Apostles. It appears in all the Gospels. It has
been read by tens,—yes, hundreds of thousands of
humankind. Yet only a few have been able to
46 Biblical Testimony
call forth the Miracles. Only a few hundred thou­
sand from among teeming millions through two
thousands of yearn have demonstrated that they
were free,—totally free from doubts. Why? Be­
cause, like the average philosopher they were filled
with questionings.
Many have professed their belief. But they
had doubt in their hearts. They struggled to be­
lieve by assuring themselves with words, but pri­
vately they did not have the Faith, and without
Faith, miracles are dead. But with a conscious­
ness freed from doubting, Miracles occur, just
as wonderful, just as spectacular, just as miracu­
lous as ever. This is most verily the Truth. And,
“THE TRUTH SHALL MAKE YE FREE”
Through the centuries many good men of the
cloth have explained what “Jesus meant” when He
said thus and so. So few have taught that He
meant exactly what He said. John reported His
words rigidly, absolutely correctly when he wrote
down that the Master said:
“Verily, verily, I say unto you,
He that believeth on me
THE WORKS THAT I DO SHALL YE DO
ALSO
AND GREATER WORKS THAN THESE
SHALL YE DO.”
John 14:12.
No One Need Fail 47
The meaning intended by these words is clear.
There is no possibility of our doubting what He
meant if we will only realize that they are True.
There are no qualifying words that were left out.
Jesus knew that even, as He uttered the words,
as He gave out the secret, that for the most part
they believed Him not. No philosopher who will
understand that THIS is a statement of the Law
of the Miracle Power, nor any other man or woman,
need ever fail to get results. But one must under­
stand what the words say. He must realize the
terrible earnestness of The Savior when He sought
to impress His listeners by repeating the affirma­
tive, “VERILY, VERILY, I SAY UNTO YOU.” '
Then He states the Law, “ HE THAT RELIEVETH,”
and the final miraculous promise made just after
He had performed a great number of the most
astonishing miracles,
“THE WORKS THAT I DO SHALL YE DO
ALSO,—and GREATER Works Than These
Shall Ye Do.”
But ever since, as ever before, man has stub­
bornly, or perhaps I should say, modestly, refused
to believe that he too can perform miracles, even
though the very next words Jesus spoke were:
“And WHATSOEVER Ye Shall Ask In My
Name, That Will I Do.”
48 The Secret Re-Stated
Surely this should be enough to convince any­
one that he has a special gift, a power to call upon
for any worthy purpose, that will not fail him.
But if it is NOT enough His next words were:
“ If Ye Ask ANYTHING In My Name, That
Will I Do.”
You will find all this in your family Bible, by
turning to John, the 14th Chapter, Verses 12, 13,
and 14. You have the word of Scripture for it.
Jesus tells you that “Whatsoever” ye ask and “Any­
thing” you ask, and tells you that you can do
things such as He did and even more marvelous
things. All that is necessary is that you BELIEVE,
that you be FREE FROM DOUBT.
True, He was talking to His disciples when
He said these things. But YOU can be a disciple
of Christ too, if you will. That does not neces­
sarily mean that you will have to greatly change
your present life,—that is, providing your present
life is not an evil one. If it were, it is not very
likely that you would greatly be interested in
reading these words. So for you, it is probably
only necessary that you change your thoughts and
that the little adjustments to make your life more
worthy will follow without your even trying very
hard.
49
W hat is Required
Jesus’ next words cover this and give direc­
tions and state His idea of what is expected of a
Disciple when he says:
“If Ye LOVE Me, Ye Will Keep My
Commandments” .
That is really all that is required for Disciple-
ship,—Love. It is not usually difficult to love one
who is so loving that He offers ANYTHING you
ask, or, Whatsoever Ye Shall Ask, That Will I Do.
How could one have such a friend, such a kindly
companion and not love him?
The trouble is that most of us think of Jesus
as being dead. We think of ourselves as existing
only in the mortal body. We, without thought, are
half conscious of previous lives but think of this
one as the last. We are aware that everything
in the physical world has a beginning and an end
and we live as though our being was a thing wholly
physical instead of realizing that we are also Spirit,
Mind and Soul. We mouth the word, “Immortal”
but think of death as being the end.
That is not true.
“YOU AND THE FATHER ARE ONE.”
The very word “ONE” is from an ancient sym­
bol of The Maya, a symbol doubtless thousands of
years old when Christ was bom. Its meaning is
( this:
50 A Grand Conception
God is All. There is only one All. If there
were more than one All, it would not be
All. Therefore, God is One; The All.
GOD IS ALL and ALL IS ONE.
All, is Complete, Unity, Oneness. You are a
part of The All.
The first letter of the word “One” is an ancient
Mayan symbol for eternity. Eternity is without
beginning or end. The circle of the letter “O”, best
expresses this thought because it too, when com­
pleted has no end. So sacred was this symbol of
the circle in ancient days among the Maya, that,
with rare exceptions it was never used, except in
connection with the most sacred rites, the most
sacred mysteries or in the most sacred temples. So
sacred was it that even wheels were forbidden for
common usage, or for wagons or carts even though
roads and highways built by these people tens of
centuries ago are still serviceable; even though
they practiced an extensive commerce and traveled
far. Even in the ancient Mayan writings, when
the circle symbol was used it was drawn imper­
fectly as it was believed that man should not at­
tempt to portray the perfection of God, the All,
the One.
How much more noble is this great and grand
conception of One All-God, than the European dark-
The Power Awcrils 51
ages idea of a Man sitting on a throne, invisible,
far off, surrounded by clouds and cherubim play­
ing harps through eternity. With such a vision
well in mind, is it any wonder that people try to
hide their deeds from Him, to deceive Him, and to
fear Him?
God, the Creator, is a God of Love. He is the
Father of Love and Life and Joy and Abundance.
The Father is in You. He is in Everything and
Everything is within Him, the One, the All. As
you are conscious of your acts, your thoughts, your
deeds, so is He who is All Consciousness also aware
of them.
He is aware of You, in His All-Wisdom. It is
We, who in our smallness too often are not aware
of Him.
Then, start now to become aware of His con­
stant presence within you and all about you. Be­
come aware and understand that “You and The
Father ABE One.” Free your mind of doubts.
Know that His Powers are Within you awaiting
only for you to cal] upon them. Learn the Truth
and apply it to your own religion whatever it may
be. The Truth shall make you Free. Free from
fear, from unhappiness, from doubt, from lack,
from all the limitations and privations produced
through lack of Understanding. BELIEVE in The
Miracle Power.
52 The Great Assurance
Read the whole chapter of John 14 from your
Bible. They are the last words of Jesus as He
prepared to go to His physical death,—the death
He had predicted and foretold. Would any man,
going to his doom, speak insincerely? How much
less would this wise and gentle leader. His last
words repeating over and over in varying phrase­
ology the same message of the availability of Mir­
acles to you and I, to all of us, if we will but ask
in Faith.
There is a magnificent comfort in Truth, once
you understand it. And Jesus knew this too, and
spoke of it to His friends gathered together there.
He said:
“And I will pray the Father, and He shall
give you another comforter, that he may be
with you forever, even the Spirit of Truth;
whom the world cannot receive, for it be-
holdeth him not, neither knoweth him; Ye
know him; for he abideth with you, and shall
be in you.
I will not Leave you desolate: I come unto
you. Yet a little while, and the world be-
holdeth me no more; but ye behold me: be­
cause I live, ye shall live also.
In that Day Ye Shall Know That I Am In My
Father, and Ye In Me, and I In You.”
John 14: 16 to 20.
The Re-Avowal 53
Then once more He repeated again the secret
that the world even today passes by. Scientists
seek fruitlessly for the cause for miracles, philo­
sophers search in vain for the reason; but one who
has Faith needs neither cause nor reason. For him,
all that is necessary is that he have Faith and his
needs, regardless of their nature, are fulfilled. In
John 15:7 we find again the promise when Jesus
says:
“If ye abide in me, and my words abide in
you, ask whatsoever ye will, and it shall be
done unto you.”
But even after this, the disciples wondered
and still failed to understand and were filled with
questionings. Even they missed the message. Small
wonder that the world fails to receive the Spirit
of Truth, when even His disciples after repeated
speakings of the secret failed to note it.
So twice more Jesus patiently gave them again
the simple directions for invoking the Miracle
Power. A means so simple, so easy to do, that the
world passes it by. His words this time were:
“Verily, Verily, I say unto you, if ye ask
ANYTHING of the Father, He will give it
to you in my name.”
and
“Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name:
54 Ask and Ye Shall Receive
ASK, and ye SHALL receive, that your joy
may be made full.”
One would think that these plain words would
finally be understood clearly by all those present.
But let me ask YOU a question:
Have they yet convinced you? Can you place
yourself through your mentality, there in that little
group; can you feel in your heart just a little of the
kindly Jesus’ anguish in parting with those whom
He loved; can you sense His tremendous earnest­
ness as He tried to impress upon them the avail­
ability of The Miracle Power of God? Listen to His
next words and decide in your heart if they were
not also meant for YOU:
“These things have I spoken unto you in dark
sayings: the hour cometh, when I shall no
more speak unto you in dark sayings, but
shall tell you plainly of the Father. In that
day ye shall ask in my name: and I say not
unto you, that I will pray the Father for you;
for the Father Himself Loveth You, because
ye have loved me, and have believed that I
came forth from the Father.”
Is this the age when we need no more to
speak in parables, in dark sayings? Is this the age
when His word is finally to be understood? Is this
the time when the Spirit of Truth shall come to
you?
55
A ll Things Are Mine
“Howbeit when he, the Spirit of Truth, is come,
he shall guide you into All the Truth: for he shall
not speak from himself; but what things soever he
shall' hear, these shall he speak: and he shall declare
unto you the things that are to come.
“He shall glorify me: for he shall take of mine,
and shall declare it unto you.
“All things whatsoever the Father hath are
mine: therefore said I, that he taketh of mine, and
shall declare it unto you.”
Things spoken of darkly? Yes, but plainly, if
you will but understand these things.
1. That, God is All and All is God.
2. That, you are a very part of Him.
3. That, His Miraculous Powers are within
you, as youi are within Him and that “what­
soever the Father hath” is yours, just as
all that you possess is also His.
4. That, you need only ask in Faith, doubting
not in your heart, to receive ANYTHING
you NEED.
“And Jesus answering saith unto them, Have Faith
in God. Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall say
unto this mountain, Be thou taken up and cast into
the sea; and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall
believe that what he saith cometh to pass; He Shall
Have It!
56 Doubt Not
“Therefore I say unto YOU,
All things whatsoever ye pray and ask for,
Believe that Ye Receive them,
And YE SHALL have them.”
THERE IS A GUIDING LIGHT LEADING YOU
Chapter Six
7/i2 Cjieat /Ziotlteiltood
Inborn in every man and in every woman
is a something that tends to draw together those
of like minds or like tastes. We read in the daily
papers of the meetings of Scientific Societies, of
religious groups, of this and that organization of
people who are attracted mentally by similar things.
Nor is this a phenomenon but rather an innate
recognition that here among this group we will
find kindred minds and understanding souls. It is
the instinct which led man upward, away from
savagery, the instinct which created great cities
and nations, great Universities and schools. It,
more than any other trait perhaps, is responsible
for civilization’s great advancement, indeed for
civilization itself. This instinct is an expression of
Divine'Love, when in its higher manifestations, and
a sub-conscious recognition of the Brotherhood
of Man.
We see it in great organizations, in great
fraternal orders and in secret Wisdom Societies all
over the world. And in this manifestation we believe
it has its greatest opportunity.
Drawn together by a desire for strange occult
knowledge, many have joined The Mayan Order in
North America. This secret Order which draws its
58 An Ancient W isdom Society
teachings from the ancient wisdom society of the
Maya has spread so rapidly during recent years
that today its members are in every part of the
North American continent.
No one is ever asked to join this Order, but
instead one must seek admittance. Rarely, someone
is invited to join because of some special aptness
or for some other reason. Among those who have
been so invited, are world famous names. Those
who do seek and gain admittance do so only by
submitting certain data concerning themselves and
by a vote of the Order’s Board of Trustees. To be
a Mayan is considered a signal honor and an indica­
tion that you are judged to possess some outstanding
ability.
Once a Mayan, a Mayan Always, has long
been the slogan among those who receive “the
word”. A Companionship that is very important
and very real among the members, even though
they seldom meet face to face. Instructions, lessons,
tracts, various publications are received by each
member without any price being placed upon them,
and all members are proud of the good works per­
formed by the Order, the scientific research among
the pyramids of Central America, and the very real
service extended without charge to their commun­
ity by each Mayan.
59
W hen You Have Need
Not least among Mayan activities, is the outer
circle composed of non-members and known as
The Society of The Guiding Light. Every month
thousands of people write to the Society of The
Guiding Light asking for help with their prayers.
Many thousands have sent their written prayers
to be placed in the Prayer-Room of the Society,
described before. You, as a reader of this book, are
also invited to do so whenever you have need.
And to this place, three times each day, all
Mayans everywhere, turn their attention in prayer­
ful Meditation. Miracles by the score have been
reported as the result of prayer under this direction.
Indeed the manner of carrying on the work of
the Prayer-Room is itself a sort of Miracle. It is
self-supporting, yet no charge is ever made for
services here. Despite the fact that Last year the
Society used daily radio time over the most power­
ful radio station in the world, and ministered to all
of the many thousands who responded to these
nation-wide broadcasts, purchasing tons of paper
and thousands,of stamps, and giving away thousands
of booklets, no charge was ever made; despite all
this tremendous expense,—a way was always pro­
vided. Like the oil from the widow’s cruse, the
money came through Faith in the Giver of all good.
This is comparable to the work of George
Muller who, in England, maintained orphanages
60 Faith Provides
which spent millions, through which hundreds were
rescued from the slums and fitted for places of
trust in the world—all without any visible means
of support! Many and many a time utter penury
stared George Muller in the face, so that any man
of less Job-like Faith would have been discouraged.
Once, hundreds of hungry children sat waiting for
their breakfast—and there was not a mouthful
to give them.
But always in time—though sometimes at the
very last minute—his faith was justified and some
generous donation would supply all their wants.
The luminous crosses given to the donors to
the Society’s work, the crosses that shine in the
dark from thousands of bed-room walls in America,
are made for the Society by the group of people
known as “The Borrowed Timers”, and is another
miraculous demonstration of Faith fulfilled.
Wishing to be useful in this life, they make
these luminous crosses that glow in the dark,
as a reminder of prayer and the Miracles
that come through prayer. By this means
alone, they are self-supporting.
Faith makes these miracles. Faith and the spreading
of Faith to others. We grow by living and we live
by growing.
W hat Do You Seek? 61
“ALL THAT THE FATHER HATH IS YOURS”
“THERE IS NO LACK IN HIM IN WHOM ALL
FULLNESS LIES.”
What is your Need? Is it money? Then realize
that God is the source of all wealth. So go to
Him—tell Him your need—ask Him for money in
abundance to meet your needs. Bless the money
you now have,—put it to some good work—re­
member what Jesus did with the loaves and fishes—
how they MULTIPLIED,—do that with the money
you now have—not by hoarding it, but by put­
ting it into action, in some good work. Use it to
develop Character, Culture and Friendships.
WHAT should you do to make it multiply?
Ask Him what you should do. Ask the Father
to direct you, to lead your thoughts that you may
know what you should do. Then DO it—in FAITH.
Wherever you are and whatever you need,
supply is always there. There is no lack in the Uni­
verse. Supply is in the Father, and the Father is
everywhere. The supply is not far off, it’s like the
air we breathe—it is all around us, always available,
always plentiful,—unless we have doubt in our
hearts—only by this are we limited. Health, happi­
ness, prosperity, ANY need can be fulfilled through
the Father.
There are really only two kinds of prayerful
people in the world. One kind prays only in some
62 Two Kind of People
dire emergency. He only prays when he wants
something and wants it badly and quickly. If
his prayer is not answered he says, “Prayer don’t
work”. If his prayer, because of his urgency, is
answered, he forgets about it until the next great
emergency. He is not even decently thankful.
The other kind is the sort Jesus meant when he
admonished us to “pray without ceasing”. That
doesn’t mean to spend our whole lives on our knees
beseeching. It does mean to think prayerful
thoughts often, to live the good life, to seek the
Father in prayer every day, in privacy, to devote
certain times to prayerful Meditation. Only by
Meditative thought does any person develop men­
tally. A daily practice of Meditation works wonders
not only for your Mind, but for your body, Spirit
and Soul.
Old Mother Nature follows the practice of
daily communion with the Creator. The flowers
turn their faces to the sun, not just once a day,
or once a week,—but always. The grain, the shrubs,
the trees, the grass, drink in the life and light of
the sun every day and all day. They receive the
communion as often and as long as opportunity
affords.
And that is what you should do too. First,
know exactly what it is you need or want. Then
pray for it, seek it earnestly and continuously, with
Talk W ith God Daily 63
faith that you ARE RECEIVING it and without
doubt in your heart.
The habit of taking a little time daily, alone
in the quiet, in communion with one’s Source—
that the illumination and guidance of the Holy
Spirit may become alive and active in your life; and
going about one’s daily work happily and ever
open to, and conscious of, this Divine Presence and
Power; will bring definiteness and direction—will
bring hope and courage; will bring Peace and
Power to EVERYONE WHO DOES IT.
In ancient days the Mayan Angelus Call was
made at morning, mid-day and night by ringing a
great silver gong-like bell. Originally this was rung
at the rising of the sun, at mid-day, and at the set-
, ting of the sun. The sun, mightiest of the stars, was
long ago accepted by the wise men as an appropriate
symbol of the Almighty One.
In present day Mayanry, ministering over a
large part of the earth’s surface, we give the An­
gelus Call thrice daily as has always been the
custom, but in order that all may have the opportun­
ity of uniting their prayers with all the others
observing this rite at the same moment, the Call is
now given at 9:00 A. M., at 3:00 P. M., and at
9:00 P. M., Central Standard Time.
Readers of this book will gladly be given the
exact schedule for observance of The Angelus Call
64 How to Pray
in the part of the country in which they live by
writing to The Society of The Guiding Light, Del
Rio, Texas. Further information is to be found in
a booklet published by the Society, entitled “How
To Pray”. This book may be had without charge by
writing to the Society and enclosing a nominal sum
to cover the cost of sending it to you. No charge
is made, send what you please, to be devoted to
furthering the Society’s work.
You are also invited to send your written pray­
er to be placed in the Prayer-Room of The Society
of The Guiding Light. We will gladly place it there
and pray with you at the time of the Angelus.
Your written prayer will remain there for thirty
days and at the end of this time we ask that you
notify us of the results you have obtained. If you
wish, your prayer will then remain in the Prayer
Room for another thirty-day period and continue
as long as you desire.
Some prayers are fulfilled quickly, even in­
stantaneously, while others because of their nature,
require more time. But regardless of the length
of time no charge is made for this. The Prayer
Room and the Society are maintained by the free­
will and love offerings of those who call upon us for
our help.
A written prayer if often found to be a more
desirable form of prayer for a number of reasons.
65
Reason for a Written Prayer
Chiefly, it calls for a better concentration of thought
than many are able to give in a spoken prayer, and
provides more definiteness of direction for the
desires we have. Like the focusing of a spot-light,
or the rays of the sun through a glass, we should
focus our desires and our attentions in prayer.
“ALL THAT THE FATHER HATH IS YOURS.”
What do you seek? Try, earnestly, writing a prayer.
Then:
Send it to The Prayer Room ,..............
Chapter Seven
How lo TJlanifjest The llliiacle
The Miracle Power, as we have learned, is the
Power of God dwelling within us. If it is His Power
and He is All, then it is All-Power and cannot fail.
It is as Sternal and as powerful as God Himself be­
cause it IS the Power of God Himself.
The Miracle Power does not fail,—if we do not
get results through its use, it is because we fail
in some way and prevent its manifesting. The
Father is desirous of helping us, of providing the
way for us to bring about anything that we need
or desire. We have read Jesus’ last words, actually
pleading that we ask ANYTHING we want.
The trouble is, we are so accustomed to think­
ing of man’s feeble powers.—We think of our limi­
tations instead of our freedoms. We think, “My,
how my head aches”, instead of thinking of the
glorious BLESSINGS we possess.—Yet who among
us have not had a headache vanish—when we had
our attention diverted to something else.
God made us with a nervous system—so that
we might be warned when through some wrong act
we endangered the mechanism of our body.—He
did not make us so that pain was the normal thing.
He made us so that pain is abnormal. WE MAKE
68 W e M ake Our Own Conditions
THE CONDITION THAT CAUSES PAIN, AND
WE MAKE THE PAIN WORSE BY DIRECTING
OUR ATTENTION TO IT . . . . Instead of to Him
and the Image of Perfection, and we do the same
thing when we bend our attention to poverty and
lack.
Think, “my head aches”, and it DOES ache.
Think of PERFECTION instead of the ache in your
head and the ache is gone,—until you think of it
again.
I don’t mean, half think of “perfection”. I
mean FILL your Mind with it . . . . think of it
rapturously, joyously, completely, shutting out ALL
OTHER THOUGHTS and your head CAN’T Ache.
You see you must THINK pain to experience pain.
Perhaps you have had an experience like this
or know someone who has:
There was an automobile accident. One
minute the driver was sitting in his car, going
along fifty miles an hour, and perfectly
alright. Suddenly a car shoots out from a
side road—there is a collision, flying glass, a
terrific noise, and — darkness.—No pain.—
None whatsoever. There was no time to
think pain before unconsciousness took place.
But hours later, in the hospital when con­
sciousness returned,—there was time to think
pain and pain was there.
69
Get Understanding
So you see the principle is simple . . . . It is
Understanding that is difficult to get . . . . With
some, Understanding comes instantly and they
start to demonstrate the principle right away. With
others, it comes more slowly, and with some,—
Understanding in its complete sense is never at­
tained.
But Understanding, though desirable, is not
essential to use this principle. All that is necessary
is FAITH.
“A FAITH THAT SURPASSETH UNDER­
STANDING WORKS INSTANT MIRA­
CLES TO PERFORM.”
Do not struggle to attain FAITH, for the strug­
gle will lock it out. Simply BELIEVE and if you
will, strive to UNDERSTAND.
If at the start your FAITH is small, it must
not be forced, but instead, it should be cultivated—
slowly and reasonably, yet constantly.
Each day you should devote some time to
Meditation upon the things of FAITH . . . . until
Understanding and Belief grow to maturity in defi­
nite knowledge.—And as your Knowledge grows
and ripens, FAITH brings forth the fruit which
is WISDOM.
But never struggle for Faith. Never say, “1
am well” while some part of you denies it, saying
70 Daily Meditation
privately, “ I am sick.” Such divided Faith is un­
productive.
THIS IS IMPORTANT! . . . . Let your Faith
be single and sincere . . . . without worrying
or fearing that that which you desire may not
be. Do not struggle for Faith . . . . Do not
strive for it. Simply image in your Mind the
Perfection of your desires. Be confident that
God has all the Power needed, and that He
does answer Prayers . . . and that YOU are
made in His image.
Instead of creating castles in the air—instead
of day dreaming—instead of just sitting back and
idly asking God to do all your work; instead of this,
go out and work to bring it about yourself. Work
in confidence that you will succeed. Work in the
certain knowledge that you in His Image are a
Creator too. Ask in Faith, then Act in Faith.
“PICK UP THY BED AND WALK.”
Realize and remember always, if you seek new
understanding, that God is not some man sitting
somewhere on a cloud, far off. He is not a SHAPE
like mortal man, nor man of a SHAPE like Him.
The image and likeness are the invisible Creative
POWERS, the IMAGING ability we possess. The
shape of our physical bodies is mortal. The image
is GOD-LIKE and IMMORTAL.
71
Gain Understanding of This
Instead of thinking of God as some very old,
far away and wrathful man, think of Him as Life.
Life is in everything that is. And so is God ever
Present. And Life is intelligent. Anyone who has
planted a seed and watched it grow knows that.
Anyone capable of thinking, who has witnessed
the miracle of birth and growth recognizes that.
Anyone who has watched life seek the light recog­
nizes the kinship of that impulse with something
deep inside himself which yearns toward Illumina­
tion, toward the good and the Perfect and the
Powerful.
And as we receive the Light of Ulumination
into our intellects, so do we ever more Image per­
fection until we BECOME in that Image ourselves.
GOD IS ALL
and
ALL IS GOD
AND GOD IS ALL ABOUT YOU.
BELIEVE THAT, AND LIGHT WILL ENTER
INTO YOU!
There are few who . . . reading these thoughts
for the first time, will understand them perfectly.
Do not be discouraged if that is your experience. If
they were easy to understand without thought and
without study, you would have no need for them.
72 Think Deeply That Ye M ay Enow
If you find them strange and difficult . . . . that
only proves your great need for them. People who
reject the strange never progress, never learn and
never benefit. It is only those who explore new
fields of thought who develop.
Your past thinking makes you what you are
today. If you were satisfied with that condition you
would not be reading these words.
It is your recognition of your need for better
things that has led you to these words. These teach­
ings have brought miracles to others. They can do
as much or even more for you.
BUT A SINGLE CASUAL READING WILL
NOT SUFFICE IF YOU ARE TO GET ALL POS­
SIBLE BENEFIT FROM THIS LESSON.
At first you may be inclined to reject parts of
it. Later after you have studied a while, you will
come back to this book and discover new Truths.
Remember this System of Thought has produced
results that can only properly be termed . . . .
Miracles.
IT IS IMPORTANT THEREFORE THAT
YOU DECIDE NOW THAT YOU WILL
MAKE THIS MIRACLE POWER PRIN­
CIPLE WORK FOR YOU TOO. SET YOUR
MIND FIRMLY IN THE ABSOLUTE DE­
TERMINATION—THAT IF ALL THAT IS
NECESSARY TO CHANGE CONDITIONS
73
The Next Twelve Months and You
ABOUT YOU IS TO CHANGE YOUR HAB­
ITS OF THINKING, THAT THEN YOU
W IL L CHANGE YOUR THINKING HAB­
ITS AND RECEIVE ALL OF THE THINGS
YOU DESIRE.
When Aladdin received the wonderful lamp
told of in fable, he still had to rub it and then tell
the genie WHAT it was he wanted. If he had not
BELIEVED the genie would appear,—he would
never have performed the simple act of rubbing
the lamp.
AND SO IT IS WITH YOU!
You must first BELIEVE. Then you must fol­
low our directions. Make up your mind that the
year ahead will be different for you. Then stay with
that determination and do what is required of you.
And continue to do it until results come for you too.
AND REMEMBER ALWAYS THAT THE
MIRACLE POWER, THE DIVINE CREATIVE
PRINCIPLE, WORKS MIRACULOUSLY, EVEN
AFTER EVERYTHING ELSE HAS FAILED.
One thing more should be explained here
briefly, before you are ready to start. That is con­
cerning the principle behind the use of “affirma­
tions”. An Affirmation is an avowal of Faith direct­
ed in a certain Path or Image. It is a key to unlock
Hidden God-Given POWERS YOU POSSESS.
74 How Affirmations Work
We learn from the science of psychology that
man possesses a dual mentality. He has a conscious
mind and a sub-conscious mind. This is now so gen­
erally accepted that we have no need to go into this
in detail here. Suffice to say that the sub-conscious
receives impulses from the conscious mind. When
these impulses are received in the sub-conscious it
accepts them WITHOUT QUESTION.
Therefore when you hold a thought strongly in
your consciousness, whether it be good or ill, when
it finally penetrates into your sub-conscious—it be­
comes a fact so far as the workings of your body are
concerned.
Believe and hold the thought that you are ill
and you become ill. Believe and hold the thought
that you are well and healthy and you become well
and healthy.
Both beliefs are forms of Creative Imaging. One
is negative thinking . . . the other, positive. But
the Principle works both ways.
This provides the clue to one of the physical
powers of the use of Affirmations. In this way, we
add to the Power of Prayer, the Power of Affirma­
tions.
In using affirmations, repeat them often. Re­
peat them many, many times. Repeat them WITH­
OUT any struggle to believe. Without any struggle
for Faith. Simply repeat the ones applicable to
75
A Daily Practice
your needs many, many times each day. By thus
repeating them consciously without thoughts of
doubt, but inwardly beholding PERFECTION, they
soon penetrate to the sub-consciousness—where­
upon the Image becomes reality.
The daily practice of Meditation is an attune-
ment with your Maker. It is the means of develop­
ing the intellect and ennobling our minds. NO in­
tellectual development is possible without it, even
• if we are unaware that we are practicing it. The
conscious, intentional, and REGULAR practice of
Meditation daily is the direct road to Mental Mas­
tery. It is a means within everyone’s reach. It
does not require high education nor demand a super-
mind to do it.
Yet it is the means by which super-mental de­
velopment occurs. And that is something we, all
of us, like to have.
Daily Meditation brings us into daily commun­
ion with our Supreme Father. It provides an in­
spiring nearness to Him. And we get out of this
practice exactly what we put into it—multiplied.
A new student once said:—“It has been wonder­
ful during the past few minutes of my Meditation.
If only I could know how to keep this blessed near­
ness to my Master that I feel just now, I would be
the happiest person in the world.”
76 The Blessed Nearness
I replied:—“I will tell you how to do it. Spend
fifteen minutes every day TALKING TO GOD IN
PRAYER . . . fifteen minutes every day LETTING
God TALK TO YOU through Meditation AND
fifteen minutes every day talking ABOUT God to
someone else.”
Dear Reader of this Book and Seeker of Better
Things, DO that . . . do it every day and I promise
that you will be amazed by the quick results you
get.
Memorize affirmations that are most helpful
to you. Repeat them many times, aloud . . . or as
a whisper, or mentally. Meditate much upon them.
They will be food to your Soul, Light to your Path­
way, and weapons for your warfare.
Put on the armor of God and devote time
every day to Meditation and Prayer and you
will soon come to Understand that Heaven is
here on earth if we will see The Light.
This practice followed even for only a few
months will have a saving, ennobling, transforming
influence not only upon you, but upon all about you.
Great thoughts, perfect health, noble aspirations,
clear perceptions of Truth and duty to God, and
much gain may be yours.
“Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and light
unto my path . . . ”
119th Psalm, 105th Verse
77
Every Day
New Daily Meditations are issued each month
by the Mayans and contain a thought for each day
of the month and affirmations designed to cover all
human needs. You may obtain this private monthly
publication for a full year for the sum of $2.50. You
may also arrange to have it sent to any of your
friends if you desire, at the same rate.
The Instructions that follow are to be used in
connection with the Daily Meditations. The Miracle
Power does not require long laborious study in
order to use it. It only needs regular Meditation
and application of the principle. If you are of a
scientific trend of mind, or like Solomon, seek the
deeper understanding, that, too, you may hope for.
If you desire that . . . we refer you to a Mem­
bership in the Mayan Order—when you feel that
you are ready for it. Our province is that of a
Guiding Light leading you—toward that which you
seek. “Ask and ye shall receive, seek and ye shall
find. Knock and it shall be opened unto you.”
As you advance on The Path that Destiny has
placed before you, as you learn to hearken to that
Inner Light which guides your steps, be diligent
in observing the daily regime.
A Prayer that is only thought of, scarcely
breathed even—while you continue at your work,
if it is offered in Faith, is more valuable than ten
thousand words without Faith.
78 Final W ords
Know this—that if you have Faith you are
ALREADY RECEIVING. And according to the
Image of your desire it will materialize. If you use
this Miracle Power and gain only one important
objective, you have benefitted a hundred-fold, but
use it in all your affairs, and you gain the King­
dom of Heaven right here on earth. Heaven is hot
a place, it is a condition. Use the daily Affirmations
DAILY. They are the essence of the Principle that
Creates.
Chapter Eight
special Quittance
On Various Problems To Be Used In Connection
with Appropriate Daily Lessons and Meditations.
HOW TO RECEIVE HELP TO CHOOSE A
DEFINITE MAJOR AIM IN LIFE:
Send for The Society’s book entitled “How To
Pray.” It is free. Read it carefully. At the
Angelus Calls, ask God to reveal to you which Path
you should choose to follow as your Major Aim in
Life. ASK! Then LISTEN FOR HIS ANSWER.
Let your Mind be passive, open to new thoughts
and Wait FOR HIS ANSWER.
It may come as a sudden enlightening decision
—that will brook no doubting. It may come into
your consciousness as a series of enlightening pic­
tures. It may come to you as a sudden startling
revelation.
Wait for His answer! Go back to God many
times with this question if necessary until His
answer comes into your Mind.
HOW TO FIND ASSISTANCE FOR CREATING
THE RIGHT PLAN TO ACQUIRE THE OBJECT
OF YOUR PURPOSE:
Do exactly as you have been instructed above.
Talk it over with God exactly as you would with
your earthly father. But remember that with God
80 The Miracle Power
—you are much nearer than you ever could be
with any earthly father.
He knows your most secret thoughts. YOU
can conceal nothing of your secret purpose from
Him. HIS powers and forces flow through you and
are in you and all about you. You are a living part
of Him. For HE IS ALL.
Talk it over with your Almighty Father—and
wait for His Revelation of the Plan to reveal itself
in your consciousness.
HOW TO RECEIVE DAILY DIRECTIONS FOR
UNLOCKING HIDDEN MYSTERIOUS POWERS
WITHIN YOU:
Anything you desire in Faith that is worthy,
you may have. There are millions of reflections
of the One Great Divine Creative Principle. Many
applications of this are given to you in the Daily
Meditations. One should not be content to merely
read these. One should Meditate upon them. As a
daily practice one should Meditate upon not only
the thoughts given to you in the daily lessons, but
upon the thoughts these bring forth.
Meditate often . . . upon the glory of God and
His absolute constant nearness to you.
81
Special Guidance
HOW TO TRAIN ONESELF TO MENTAL
ATTUNEMENT WITH THE ALL-POWER:
God is ALL. Therefore He is also ALL POWER.
There is nothing beyond the ALL. You are a Part
of All. If you were not you would be nothing. As
you ARE something you are a part of ALL. You
are therefore a part of God who is ALL. His Mind
is the ALL-MIND. YOUR Mind is part of His
Mind, the All-Mind. You are therefore attuned to
His Mind Now. God gives us the Freedom of Indi­
viduality. To be conscious of your attune-
ment with Hun, drop your individuality and sub­
merge yourself in the Allness of the ALL. FEEL
His Greatness encompassing your Being. That IS
ATTUNEMENT!
HOW TO STIR UP COURAGE AND NERVE TO
DEMAND MORE OUT OF LIFE AND GET IT:
Courage and “nerve” are merely confidence
and Freedom from Fear. Realize that God himself
and His All-Power and All-Mind are within you
as part of the All. With the realization that all this
power and all this mentality are yours to call upon
and to use, you will be filled with courage and
confidence.
It is yours to call upon, yours to use and you
are learning more surely each day, how to call upon
82 The Miracle Power
it and how to put it into use so that you will de­
mand more out of life, and get it. Learn the way
of Affirmations during the year ahead.
HOW YOU MAY HAVE AT YOUR CALL A
TREMENDOUS FORCE FOR GETTING ANY­
THING YOU WANT FROM LIFE:
“In FAITH all things are possible.” Through
Faith, as you will come to learn, many powers now
dwelling dormant within you are unleashed and
your abilities develop. In any effort, first BE­
LIEVE that you can, Meditate upon how you
will do it, talk it over with God, then start DOING
IT. Keep in mind always, that you are not alone.
God is with you constantly. Each day as you join
your thoughts with the thousands in all parts of the
North American Continent, you are not alone.
In United Thought there is Strength. In United
Petitioning to the Throne of Grace, there is com­
munion with God. In Meditation there is Power.
Practice it daily. Develop the ability to Meditate
upon your plans and needs deeply and sincerely.
Even if you are in the midst of some other press­
ing activity, manage to direct a few sincere thoughts
in Meditative contemplation of your needs. Keep
that vision ever before you. Don’t let it grow dim
or hazy. And repeat as many times daily as pos­
sible either silently or aloud, the affirmation most
suitable to your needs.
83
Special Guidance
HOW TO “STEP UP” YOUR OWN MENTAL
POWERS AND PUT THEM INTO ACTION:
After a quiet period of Meditation, sit still
for a time and direct your consciousness to your
brain. Feel the refreshing magnetizing flow of
Power come into it as you relax utterly for a few
moments. Then tackle the problem perfectly re­
freshed mentally. The brain is mortal, like your
body. Consciousness is immortal. Direct your
consciousness and your attention to your brain for
a brief quiet moment. Relax. Feel the renewed
power now present. Try it! Now!
HOW TO BE LIFTED ABOVE PETTY WORRIES
AND FEARS AND HAMPERING DRAGS:
Select certain of the Daily Meditation Lessons
as your favorites. Memorize certain of the Affirma­
tions given to you at the end of each Daily Medita­
tion. Worry is merely fear and usually it is with­
out any real basis, and fear of course is always a
drag.
It is a form of expectant thinking in reverse.
Then put it back in its proper place and think
straight, “expectantly”. We get what we expect.
Have confidence in God and think expectantly the
right way. FEEL His constant Loving Presence.
84 The Miracle Power
HOW TO GAIN A NEW AND SATISFYING
HOLD ON YOUR RELIGION:
Errors in translation, and errors in the under­
standing of some of the ancient writers have oc­
casionally been carried down into most of the Mod­
em Creeds. Injunctions to “Fear God” and warn­
ings that “Thy God is a jealous God” seem clearly
to be examples of this. The original injunction was
to revere God instead of to fear Him.
Wherever you find the words, “Fear God”, try
substituting reverence for Him and see how much it
helps you to find a new satisfaction in your Religion.
An earthly father does not desire his children to
stand in fear of him, but he does desire their respect.
In the higher degrees of the Mayan Order one
learns so much about the original teachings and
sees how they became perverted into totally differ­
ent meanings during the passing of the centuries.
To gain a new and satisfying hold on your
Religion, gain greater Understanding. By obser­
vance of regular periods of Meditation, come to
know the very real nearness to you of the All-
Mighty Father. Realize the kinship and recognize
that He is in you and you are in Him.
In the words of Jesus,
“YOU AND THE FATHER ARE ONE”.
Thus, you may find new Understanding of God
and His Real Love for you.
Special Guidance 85
HOW TO CONVERT FAILURE INTO SUCCESS:
When you think of failure, you show it in count­
less subtle ways that leave you open to predatory
attacks. It is the way of unenlightened men to “kick
a man when he is down”. Those who have not seen
the Light and who are filled with greed and selfish­
ness are quick to take advantage of those whose
position may be weak.
In this way and in many other ways thinking
failure seems to attract failure. Likewise to think
Success attracts Success.
Picture yourself as a Success and Live The Part.
As you image yourself so will you become. The
successful man is a thoughtful man who plans his
moves. Do thou likewise. Take your plans to God
and wait for His answer. Then BELIEVE and DO
according to His Divine Directions.
If your plans are good and well thought out,
and approved by God; if you Believe in them, how
can you help thinking SUCCESS. Like attracts
like and Success attracts Success. Hold the Af­
firmative Successful attitude and the world will
flock to you and make you even more Successful.
Be worthy of Success and when Success starts
to come give more and more and become worthy of
more and more Success. You can be as successful
as you choose to be.
86 The Miracle Power
“GIVE AND YE SHALL RECEIVE.”
Give what. . . ? Give the very best you have to
give. If your abilities are as a musician, give your
best. If your abilities are in the field of commerce,
give the best values.
If you follow law, give the best advice and rep-
resentatibn. Whatever field you are best in, give
your best in the biggest, most generous way possible
and you will Succeed.
“WITH WHAT MEASURE YE METE IT OUT
SO SHALL IT BE MEASURED UNTO YOU.”
Keep actively doing. Give, and give, and give.
And think affirmatively of Success so constantly
. . . that there is no time for thinking otherwise.
By our thoughts we do create, and in the
image of our thinking. Do this and you will find
the Door Opened for a new approach to Spiritual
as well as Material Riches. There is another door
opened to you as well.
Each year, the Mayan Order accepts into their
Companionship a certain number of persons who
have in one way or another been selected as
being worthy of this honor. This door to deeper
mysteries and greater Wisdom is open to you . . .
as a Reader of this book. During this year certain
ones will be selected from among those who seek
admission to receive the Mayan Initiation. May
you be one of them!
Special Guidance 87
HOW DISEASE AND ILL HEALTH MAY BE
CONQUERED BY A GOD-POWER EVERY
PERSON POSSESSES:
Do you feel tired in any part of your body?
Do this: Direct your attention to that part of your
body for a period of thirty seconds. Try this as an
experiment.
Hold your attention mentally, for a brief thirty
seconds on any part of your body, say your left
hand or your right foot. While your attention is
thus concentrated, WILL that the Life energy in
your body be sent abundantly to that region. After
thirty seconds, relax. But FEEL the restoration
of Well Being in the member you have concen­
trated upon.
Try doing that . . . before you read another
word beyond this point. No doubt you will be
amazed at the peculiar feeling of well being and
new energy in the part of your body you directed
your attention to.
You see Mind DOES Control Body. Whether
you are conscious of it or not, it DOES. Every
second that you live in the physical body, Mind
is on the job taking care of you, keeping the
physical functions going. You are not conscious
of it because most of these activities are taken
88 The Miracle Power
care of by your sub-conscious mind. It keeps your
heart beating, your blood purified, your lungs
pumping. It mixes the correct chemicals into what­
ever food you eat and in the exactly correct pro­
portions needed so you get the benefit of your food.
It does this faster, and more accurately than the
greatest chemist on earth could do it for you. If
you are injured, whether it be but a pin-prick or
a major operation, it sends to the region of your
injury whole armies of white blood corpuscles to
kill any possible infection and to mend the injury.
O, Man, you are indeed wonderfully made ...!
This whole sub-conscious process CAN be di­
rected by your conscious mind also. Those who
are expert at it can cause the pulse on one side
of the body to differ with the pulse on the other
side. They can produce that peculiar state of seem­
ing death that is called suspended animation.
But even those who are not expert can con­
quer disease and ill-health by mental direction.
By right thinking in Faith, by the use of affirma­
tions, by a REAL belief in The Power of Prayer;
they can overcome any physical disturbance with­
in their system. There are countless cases of
record wherein tumors seemed to dissolve over­
night, cataracts vanish, and countless other seem­
ing miracles occur.
Special Guidance 83
“ACCORDING TO YOUR FAITH, BE IT DONE
UNTO YOU”
said Jesus.
“PICK UP THY BED, AND WALK.”
Remember that all physical things are subject
unto the Spirit. A bar of iron that seems so solidly
real, is made up of countless atoms. The atoms in
turn are composed of electrons, nuetrons, pro­
tons; infinitely small specks of pure energy—
SPIRIT.
There is nothing actually solid about a bar of
iron. It only seems solid in our present range of
vision, and that is true of everything in this physi­
cal world.
Everything, including your body and my body.
We are not solid. Our flesh and bones are made
up of atoms too, and they in turn are made up
of infinitely tiny specks . . . of energy . . . SPIRIT.
And the Spirit is of God. The energy is God’s and
He directs it in Paths that are Perfect.
It is only when His Light is interfered with
that inharmonic conditions are set up. T h e s e
“interference patterns” (as they are called in the
science of engineering) produce the disharmony.
All that we need to do is to attune our conscious­
ness and our Being to God again to become well.
90 The Miracle Power
Cut out the interference. Vibrate in harmony
with Him. Direct your attention to Him and His
attention to the part of you that is in disharmony.
Ask that He re-harmonize you. That He direct
His light into your understanding. Do this in
Faith as you talk with Him.
Use an Affirmative statement of Faith as you
image the perfection you desire. Continue with
the Affirmation until the image of health is Created.
HOW PRAYER CAN BE USED TO PRODUCE
DESIRED RESULTS AND WHY IT SOMETIMES
SEEMS NOT TO WORK:
So many people are of the opinion that prayer
generally does not work. Most people believe
that prayer is answered “sometimes”. But they
seldom stop to think about WHY it works some­
times and not at others.
There is a reason for this just as there is a
reason for all things. First of all, let me say that
Prayer, true Prayer, ALWAYS works. It some­
times works even before we can utter it. The
answer to true Prayer starts to work instantly.
True, it sometimes takes some time for FULFILL­
MENT, but it STARTS the moment that a prayer
is said in FAITH.
91
Special Guidance
Much that passes for Prayer is not Prayer at
all. It is said thoughtlessly, mechanically. That
is not Prayer. It is just talking to yourself. Words
falling on empty air. Your attention is not directed
on God and He therefore is not listening. Much
that passes for Prayer is directed AT some far
away, imaginary, vastly old man sitting on a sort
of replica of an earthly tinseled throne with little
earthly clouds floating all about. The one who
prays thus, understands not the Nature of God, but
creates an idol in his Mind, to which he prays with
little Faith.
How could his faith be great and strong and
sure, when he thinks of God as something in the
shape of an earthly man, a God who is jealous
and wrathful? Without Faith a Prayer is dead.
And even Faith without works is dead. But an
active Faith directed in Prayer is productive of
results, instantly, and that is the only way Prayer
can be made to work. In this way it ALWAYS
WORKS. God is a God of Love. He is Nature.
He is Life. His Spirit is Everywhere. It is in the
air you breathe. It is in the food you eat. It is in
the earth, in the water, in the clouds, in the Heavens,
the Planets, and the Skies. He is in and through the
Universe. He is in you and in your neighbor, in
your friend and in your brother. He is All in All.
92 The Miracle Power
Revere Him! He is ALL POWERFUL. He is
ALL INTELLIGENT. HE IS as conscious of YOU
as an individual, as YOU are of HIM.
May you continue along this path upon which
you are now progressing. May you, too, grow in
mind, spirit and soul by gaining the further under­
standing which may be yours for the seeking. The
door is open. We welcome all those who desire
to receive further instruction, for by their seeking
of wisdom, do they prove their right to The Com­
panionship.
CUT OUT THIS PAGE AND SEND IT WITH
YOUR PRAYER, TO GET ANY OF THE
ITEMS LISTED.
HOW TO PRAY:
Please send me a copy of the Society’s book “HOW
TO PRAY”. This book is sent without charge to all
those who sincerely desire to use The Miracle Power of
Prayer. _____
Check Here:
DAILY MEDITATION:
These Special Helps, Meditations and Daily Affirma­
tions are issued privately each month and cover every
day of the month. The cost is only $2.50 for the entire
year, over 365 brief, daily, inspiring one-minute Medita­
tive Prayers. Be sure that you get these to help you
in your new regime to Success through The Miracle
Power.
Check Here:
THE GOOD COMPANION:
This is a little printed publication containing Extra
Instruction each month and News from the Prayer Room,
Stories of the healings and the victories and many other
helpful items of interest. You really should have this
in connection with the Daily Meditations. Its cost is so
little that anyone can easily afford it. 25<f for 6 months
or 50t- for an entire year.
Check Here:
TIME CHART:
If you order any or ALL of the above it is an indica­
tion of your resolve to get results through The Miracle
Power. You should then have the Time Chart of The
Angelus Calls giving the Prayer Time for the section
of the country where you live as it is observed by those
who are praying with you. The Time Chart of The
Angelus Calls is free.
Check Here:
(Any proceeds which might accrue from the above
items as well as any gifts, donations, or love offerings
received will be used to assist in carrying on the good
work of The Society of The Guiding Light.)
Enclosed is payment of items checked $
Gifts, or love offerings
Total enclosed $
My Name--------------------------------------------------------
Address ---------------------------------------------------------
C ity_________________________State___________
Mail To:
THE SOCIETY OF THE GUIDING LIGHT
DEL RIO, TEXAS
