{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__king___unveiled_mysteries.pdf","mytitle":"Unveiled Mysteries","mylang":"de"}
COPYRIGHTED 1939, BY
SAINT GERMAIN PRESS
All rights reserved,
including copy of Frontispiece
and foreign translations
Third Edition
PRINTED IN U. S. A.
DEDICATION
This series of books is dedicated
in deepest, Eternal Love and
Gratitude to our Beloved Master,
Saint Germain, the Great White
Brotherhood, the Brotherhood of
the Royal Teton, the Brother
hood of Mount Shasta, and those
other Ascended Masters whose
loving help has been direct and
without limit.
p4 e^^-w*^ y.-fc. v>. A* '
EDITOR'S NOTE
AT THE request of the Ascended Master, Saint Germain,
/\ and Victory, the Tall Master from Venus, the ma-
X V. terial in this book is written in a plain, direct manner
with no attempt to conform to artificial literary standards,
or outer world authority.
They said: "This series of books must go forth in a simple
modern style which the layman can easily understand."
Therefore, the Inner Light and Feeling have been held
as of the first importance in presenting this Truth; and the
words used to express that Light and Feeling are those which
are most direct and of easiest comprehension for the reader.
The Ascended Masters never use involved terminology
regardless of any human opinion, for the nearer one comes
to Eternal Truth, the more direct and concise is the language
in which it is clothed.
In presenting this book to our readers, we have kept
the Light and Feeling first and the literary form entirely
secondary.
The material in the first two books is simply a record
of the author's experiences in the order in which the events
occurred, stated as clearly as possible and in words that
convey to the reader the feeling of the experiences.
If the reader will bear this in mind, he too will be
able to receive the Outpouring of Light which will open
opportunities for similar transcendent experiences to come
to him in a perfectly, normal, safe, harmonious manner for
his permanent blessing and Illumination.
In loving service to the Light,
Lotus Ray K1ng
TRIBUTE
HE time has arrived, when the Great Wis
dom, held and guarded for many centuries
JL in the Far East, is now to come forth in Amer
ica, at the command of those Great Ascended Masters
who direct, protect and assist in expanding the Light
within mankind upon this earth.
The Great Ascended Master, Saint Germain,
throughout this series of books, is one of those Power
ful Cosmic Beings from the Great Host of Ascended
Masters who govern this planet.
He is the same Great Masterful "Presence" who
worked at the Court of France previous to and dur
ing the French Revolution; and whose Advice, if
it had been heeded, would have saved great suffering.
He is indissolubly linked with America— past, pres
ent, and future; for a very important part of His
Work upon this earth is the purifying, protecting and
illumining of the people of America that she may
be the Carrier of the "Cup of Light" to the nations
of the earth in the Golden Age that is opening be
fore us.
America's very Freedom in the beginning of her
existence was due largely to His tireless efforts, in
protecting and encouraging those responsible for
her inception. The drafting of the Declaration of
vi TRIBUTE
Independence was also a direct result of His Help
and Influence, and it was His Love, Protection, and
Guidance which sustained Washington and Lincoln
during the darkest hours of their lives.
This Beloved Brother of humanity, who works un
tiringly for its Light and Freedom, is even now dur
ing the present hour in America working in the
world of governmental affairs; and bringing about
certain beneficial changes that will bless her and
through her the world. Not for many years ahead,
will the people of America and the earth know how
much of their good they owe to this Great Ascended
Master to whom it is impossible to do full justice,
except in deepest Love, obedience and service to the
Ideal for which He stands and unceasingly labors.
This intimate knowledge of His Activities in our
country makes possible a feeling of close contact and
Love for Him that becomes a living, tangible Force
in the Life of the reader.
The Radiation of this book is such as can only be
given by an Ascended Master who, in this case, is the
Great Beloved "Bearer of the Light," Saint Germain.
Godfre Ray K1ng
FOREWORD
IT
WAS through Saint Germain's Assistance that
I was privileged to have the experiences recorded
in this Series of Books; and permission has been
granted for them to be put in a form which can be
given to the public. No one can realize, unless he too
has had similar Assistance, how great and eternal is
my Love and gratitude to Him and those other As
cended Masters, whose Assistance I had.
With the exception of Saint Germain, the Real
Names of the Ascended Masters, exact locations, rec
ords, dates and treasure herein described are with
held intentionally— at His Command— for reasons
that are obvious; because only by the Service of Love
and Invitation from the Ascended Masters is the
right earned to be with Them in visible, tangible,
living, breathing bodies. Any other way of approach
is bound to meet with disappointment and failure,
for the Great "Presence" and Power which has
guarded through the centuries, guards Them still.
One's own Inner purity, strength, and attainment
are the only passports by which one enters into these
activities and association with the Ascended Masters
comes about. When an individual, by conscious Self-
correction of his weaknesses, reaches a certain point,
nothing in the Universe can keep him from Them.
vii
viii FOREWORD
In America there is one of the most Ancient Foci
of the Great White Brotherhood, one of the oldest
Retreats of the Ascended Masters, which has been
working for man's Freedom since his advent upon
this planet. Some of the activities within this Retreat
are revealed to the reader that he may, if he be ready,
make conscious contact through his own Inner Light,
with the Greater Light pouring out through this
Powerful Center of God-Radiance; and thereby
drink once again at the Fountain of the Ancient Wis
dom and carry the Crystal Cup of Peace, Love, and
Strength and Victory to his weary brothers.
The purpose of putting this book into the hands
of the public is to convey to the individual the en
couragement and strength that will lift and sustain
him through the transition period we are now in;
and reveal something of the sane and sound Founda
tion upon which the future of Our Country and the
coming age
is,
this hour, being built.
This book
is
written in the embrace of the majes
tic, towering presence of Mount Shasta, whose apex
is
robed forever in that pure, glistening White, the
symbol of the "Light of Eternity." Its pages are
a
record of the way by which
I
was brought in touch
with the Beloved Master, Saint Germain, and those
other Great Ascended Masters who labor ceaselessly
to assist the humanity of this earth, as
it
struggles on
FOREWORD ix
the Path to Peace, Love, Light, and Everlasting Per
fection.
I, whose experience it was, held steadfastly to a
great dominant desire from Within to see, to hear,
and to know, infallibly, the Truth of Life. I was led
step by step to realize and to accept the Mighty God
"Presence" within my own Being—the "Light that
lighteth every man that cometh into the world"—
the "Christ." A way to make contact with the
"Light," Its All-Knowing Omnipresence, and Un
erring Activity was revealed to me, and I give it to
the reader in these pages.
I can record only a part of the events that took
place and the Instruction I received. One by one,
my great desires have been fulfilled, because those
desires were constructive and unselfish. My quest
for Truth and happiness has been long and steady
but I have found both; and no human being can
take them from me, because they are eternal and
come from my own Great God Self. In presenting
this experience, it is with the deepest prayer that the
reader may receive the "Light," be blest, and pros
pered on his way, as he walks the Path of Truth in
which alone can Permanent Happiness be found.
There, and there only, will the seeker after "Light"
find Eternal Peace and Activity in the Service of
Love. If my present effort in sending these books
X FOREWORD
forth into the world can carry some of the Love,
Light, and Happiness I have received, to those of
earth, who also have been seeking the "Light," I
shall have been amply rewarded.
The Great Ascended Master, Saint Germain, has
told us that the Books of the Saint Germain Series
in the Ascended Masters' Octave of Light, are bound
in Covers of Jewels.
They contain the Eternal Law of Life and will
remain the Law for humanity and the earth for
thousands of years to come!
The Ascended Master Law of the "I AM" is the
Only Way provided by Life, to raise the activity of
human beings into the next Octave of Life above
the human. It is the Only Way by which individuals
can correct the mistakes of the past and go forward
free from them in the future. It is the means the
Law of Life provides which enables the individual
to give a balance back to the Universal for his mis
use of Life's energy— instead of making restitution in
dividual to individual, which would become an
endless chain of reactions.
That provision for bringing balance everywhere is
surely the Greatest Mercy of Life to Its Creation.
It is the "Grace" Jesus taught and by which He
gained His Ascension. All Ascended Masters, and
there are thousands of Them, have used exactly this
FOREWORD xi
same application to become the Perfection and Power
of Life which They are now.
In reading this Series of Books, you are trying to
understand that which is expressing Infinitely
Greater Perfection than you or other human beings
of this earth are expressing.
There are no discrepancies in this explanation of
the Law, as the Ascended Masters have given It.
They are wholly Pure, Perfect, All-powerful Beings
who never make a mistake. The one who reads these
books should realize how little he or she knows about
what is in this Magnificent Universe beside himself
and of which he has never heard.
Everyone knows positively that there is an Intel
ligent Power and Activity of Life greater than his
own human mind, body and intellect or those of all
mankind put together. Everyone knows that our
world and the System of Worlds to which this earth
belongs were created, designed and are sustained by
an Intelligence and Power greater than all human
intellects and consciousness on our planet.
Then, instead of feeling, saying or thinking that
there are discrepancies in this Ascended Master In
struction which is Perfect— try to realize how little
your human intellect or that of all mankind knows
about Perfection. Why should human beings who
are in such limitation and who make so m^rvy mis
xii FOREWORD
takes themselves, dare to say that the Ascended
Masters who are wholly Pure, Perfect, Loving and
All-powerful, make mistakes, when such a thing is
impossible?
Such an attitude is just human ignorance judg
ing the Divine Life and Manifestation of the Uni
verse, through the discord of human feeling in its
rebellion against obedience to the Law of Life.
The Ascended Masters and we never use a de
structive force! We do not need to! All destructively
qualified energy is the tool of the sinister force in
rebellious individuals who will not give obedience
to the Law of their own Life for their own greater
good.
The Power and Victory of Light is taking Its
Dominion in the United States of America; because
the Ascended Masters and Cosmic Beings have issued
a Fiat for the Perfection of Life to express fully
through the people of this earth. That Perfection
begins in America by the Ascended Masters' Under
standing and conscious use of the Great Creative
Word "I AM."
All who will use that Word as the Ascended
Masters use It, will release the same All-powerful
Victory and Perfection of the Light that They do,
because They are Its Full Power and Perfection.
They became Its Full Power and Perfection by using
FOREWORD xiii
It. All can do exactly the same thing and become
Perfect and All-powerful too.
The saying that, "Truth is stranger than fiction,"
applies to this book. It is for the reader to accept or
reject as he chooses, but the Ascended Masters, whose
Help I have received, have said to me often:—"The
more humanity can accept Our "Presence," the
wider it opens the door for Us to pour greater and
greater Help to them; but the rejection of Us, by
those who do not agree with this Truth, does not
remove Us or change Its Activity in the Universe."
Those, who do accept the Truth herein recorded,
will find a new and powerful "Force" entering their
lives. Each copy carries with it this Mighty "Pres
ence," Its Radiation, and Sustaining Power. All, who
study these pages honestly, deeply, sincerely, and per
sistently, will know and make contact with the
Reality of that "Presence" and Power. To those who
read this work, I wish to say, that these experiences
are as Real and True as mankind's existence on
this earth today, and that they all occurred during
August, September and October of 1930 upon Mount
Shasta, California, U. S. A.
Godfre Ray K1ng
CONTENTS
CHAPTER PACE
I. Meet1ng the Master ... 1
II. The Sahara Desert .... 33
III. The Royal Teton . . . .
72
IV. Myster1es of the Yellowstone . 109
V. Inca Memor1es 126
VI. Bur1ed C1t1es of the Amazon . . 164
VII. The Secret Valley . . . . 195
VIII. God's Omn1present Power . . 215
IX. Venus V1s1ts the Royal Teton . 243
THE ASCENSION
By Chanera
I feel My God Flame touch my brow.
The Breath of Love— eternal now,
I raise my eyes and lo, I see
My own Great God Self over me.
A dazzling cloud envelops all,
I hear My Own God "Presence" call,
I feel a surge of Love's great might,
I enter deep Its Breath— Its Light.
I see within this Pulsing Flame,
I listen, and hear my Secret Name,
I feel the glow— the Great Flame Breath,
I am the Victor over death.
I stand forth free— ascended now,
To my heart's Light, all things do bow:
I am a Being of Cause alone
And That Cause, Love— the Sacred Tone.
I pour out Life—I lift, I raise,
My heart o'erflows and sings its praise,
My power strengthens and inspires,
My Great Light Rays are God's Own Fires.
I am a Sun, My Love, Its Light
All else grows dim— earth lost to sight;
I know that I am God— The One,
The Source—The Great, Great Central Sun.
xvi
UNVEILED MYSTERIES
M
CHAPTER I
Meeting the Master . y «. \
OUNT SHASTA stood out boldly against
the western sky, surrounded at its base
by a growth of pine and fir trees that
made it look like a jewel of diamond-shining white
ness held in a filigree setting of green. Its snow-
covered peaks glistened and changed color from
moment to moment, as the shadows lengthened in
the sun's descent toward the horizon.
Rumor said, there was a group of men— Divine
Men in fact—called the Brotherhood of Mount Shas
ta, who formed a branch of the Great White Lodge,
and that this Focus from very ancient times had
continued unbroken down to the present day.
I had been sent on government business to a little
town situated at the foot of the mountain, and while
thus engaged, occupied my leisure time trying to
unravel this rumor concerning The Brotherhood.
{T\new, through travels in the Far East, that most
rumors, myths, and legends have, somewhere as their
UNVEILED MYSTERIES
origin, a deep underlying Truth that usually remains
unrecognized by all but those who are real students
I fell in love with Shasta and each morning, almost
involuntarily, saluted the Spirit of the Mountain and
the Members of the Order. I sensed something very
unusual about the entire locality and, in the light
of the experiences that followed, I do not wonder
that some of them cast their shadows before.
Long hikes on the trail had become my habit,
whenever I wanted to think things out alone or make
decisions of serious import. Here, on this great Giant
of Nature, I found recreation, inspiration, and peace
that soothed my soul and invigorated mind and body.
I had planned such a hike, for pleasure as I
thought, to spend some time deep in the heart of
the mountain, when the following experience en
tered my life, to change it so completely that I could
almost believe I were on another planet, but for
my return to the usual routine in which I had been
engaged for months.
The morning in question, I started out at day
break deciding to follow where fancy led, and in a
vague sort of way, asked God to direct my path. By
noon, I had climbed high up on the side of the
mountain where the view to the south was beautiful
as a dream.
As the day advanced, it grew very warm and I
of
li:
MEETING THE MASTER 3
stopped frequently to rest and to enjoy to the full the
remarkable stretch of country around the McCloud
River, Valley, and town. It came time for lunch, and
I sought a mountain spring for clear, cold water.
Cup in hand, I bent down to fill
it,
when an electrical
current passed through my body from head to foot.
I
looked around, and directly behind me stood
a
young man who, at first glance, seemed to be some
one on
a
hike like myself.
Ilooked more closely, and
realized immediately that he was no ordinary person.
As this thought passed through my mind, he smiled
and addressed me saying:
"My Brother,
if
you will hand me your cup,
I
will
give you
a
much more refreshing drink than spring
water."
I
obeyed, and instantly the cup was filled
with a creamy liquid. Handing
it
back to me, he
said:
"Drink it."
I
did so, and must have looked my astonishment.
While the taste was delicious, the electrical vivi
fying effect in my mind and body made me gasp
with surprise.
I
did not see him put anything into
the cup, and
I
wondered what was happening.
"That which you drank," he explained, "comes
directly from the Universal Supply, pure and vivify
ing as Life Itself, in fact
it
is
Life—Omnipresent Life
—for
it
exists everywhere about us.
It
is
subject to out
conscious control and direction, willingly obedient,
4 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
when we Love enough, because all the Universe
obeys the behest of Love. Whatsoever I desire mani
fests itself, when I command in Love. I held out the
cup, and that which I desired for you appeared. See!
I have but to hold out my hand and, if I wish to use
gold— gold is here." Instantly, there lay in his palm a
disc about the size of a ten dollar gold-piece. Again
he continued:
"I see within you a certain Inner understanding
of the Great Law, but you are not outwardly aware
of It enough to produce that which you desire direct
from the Omnipresent Universal Supply. You have
desired to see something of this kind so intensely, so
honestly, and so determinedly, it could no longer be
withheld from you.
"However, precipitation is one of the least impor
tant activities of the Great Truth of Being. If your
desire had not been free from selfishness and the
fascination of phenomena, such an experience could
not have come to you. When leaving home this morn
ing, you thought you were coming on a hike, that
is,
so far as the outer activity of your mind was con
cerned. In the deeper, larger sense you were really
following the urge of your Inner God Self that led
to the person, place, and condition wherein your
most intense desire could be fulfilled.
^The
Truth of Life
is,
you cannot desire that
￼
wh1ch
is
not possible of manifestation somewhere in
MEETING THE MASTER 5
the Universe. The more intense the_fge/mgwithin
the desire, the more quickly it will be attained. ^How-
evelTTFone be foolish enough to desire something that
will injure another of God's children, or any other
part of His Creation, then that person will pay the
penalty in discord and failure, somewhere in his own
Life's experience.
"It is very important to realize fully that God's
intent for every one of His children is abundance of
every good and perfect thing. He created Perfection
and endowed His children with exactly the same
power. They can create and maintain Perfection also,
and express God-Dominion over the earth and all
that is therein. Mankind was originally created in
the Image and Likeness of God. The only reason all
do not manifest Dominion is because they do not
use their Divine Authority—that with which each
individual is endowed and by which he is intended
to govern his world. Thus, they are not obeying the
Law of Love by pouring out peace and blessing to all
creation.
"Thus comes about through their failure to accept
and acknowledge themselves as Temples of the Most
High Living God, and to hold this acknowledg
ment with eternal recognition. Humanity, in its
present seeming limitation of time, space, and ac
tivity, is in the same condition a person in need
would be to whom some one held out a hancUui of
6 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
money. If the needy one did not step forward and
accept the money held out to him, how in the world
could he ever have the benefit which it could bring.
"The mass of mankind is exactly in this state of
consciousness today and will continue in
it,
until
they accept the God within their hearts as the Owner,
Giver, and Doer of all the Good that has ever come
into their lives and world.
"The personal self of every individual must ac
knowledge completely and unconditionally that the
human or outer activity of consciousness has abso
lutely nothing of its own. Even the energy, by which
one recognizes the Great God Within,
is
radiated
into the personal-self by the Great God Self.
"Love and praise of the Great Self Within and
the attention maintained focused upon Truth,
health, freedom, peace, supply, or any other thing
that you may desire for right use, persistently held
in your conscious thought and feeling, will bring
them into your use and world, as surely as there
is
a
Great Law of Magnetic Attraction in the Universe.
"The Eternal Law of Life is: 'What you think and
feel you bring into form; where your thought
is
there you are, for you are your consciousness; and
what you meditate upon, you become.'
"When one allows his mind to dwell upon thoughts
of hate, condemnation, lust, envy, jealousy, criti
cism, fear, doubt, or suspicion, and allows these feel
MEETING THE MASTER 7
ings of irritation to generate within him, he will
certainly have discord, failure, and disaster in his
mind, body and world. As long as he persists in allow
ing his attention to be held by such thoughts—
whether they be about nations, persons, places, con
ditions, or things— he is absorbing those activities
into the substance of his mind, his body, and his
affairs. In fact he is compelling— forcing— them into
his experience.
"All these discordant activities reach the individ
ual and his world, through his thought and feeling.
Feeling often flashes, before one is aware of the
thought in the outer consciousness, which he might
use to control
it,
and this kind of experience should
teach him how great
is
the energy within his many
creations, which has accumulated through habit.
Pfhe feeling activity of Life
is
the most unguarded
point of human consciousness.
It
is
the accumula
tive energy by which thoughts are propelled into the
atomic substance, and thus thoughts become things.
I
tell you, the need of guarding the feeling cannot
be emphasized too strongly, for control of the emo
tions plays the most important part of anything in
Life, in maintaining balance in the mind, health in
the body, success and accomplishment in the affairs
and world of the personal self of every individual.
Thoughts can never become things, until they are
clothed with feeling!]
￼
8 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
"The Holy Ghost or Holy Spirit is the feeling side
of Life—God— the Activity of Divine Love or the
Mother Expression of Deity. This is why the sin
against the Holy Ghost is referred to, as that which
brings such great distress, because any discord in the
feeling breaks the Law of Love, which is the Law
of Balance, Harmony, and Perfection.
"The greatest crime in the Universe against the
Law of Love is humanity's almost ceaseless sending
forth of every kind of irritable and destructive feel
ing.
"One day the race will come to realize and recog
nize that the sinister, destructive forces manifesting
on this earth and in its atmosphere— generated, mark
you, by human thought and feeling—have only en
tered the affairs of individuals or nations, through
lack of control in the emotions in everyone's daily
personal experience. Even destructive thoughts can
not express themselves as action, events, or become
physical things, except by passing through the world
of feeling; for it is in this phase of manifestation
that the activity of coalescing the physical atom upon
thought forms takes place.
"As the noise from a sudden explosion shocks the
nervous system of one who hears it—setting up a
trembling sensation in the cellular structure of the
body— in exactly the same way do the flares of ir
ritated feeling shock, disturb, and disarrange the
MEETING THE MASTER 9
finer substance in the atomic structure of the mind,
body, and world of the person who sends them out,
consciously or unconsciously— intentionally or un
intentionally.
"Discordant feeling is the producer of conditions
we call disintegration, old age, lack of memory, and
every other failure, in the world of human experi
ence. The effect upon the body structure is the
same as that produced upon a building, if the mortar
holding the bricks together were to receive repeated
shocks, and each day those were to be increased. This
continued shock would shake apart the particles
composing the mortar, the building would collapse
into a chaotic mass and the form be no more.
"That is what mankind is constantly doing to the
atomic structure of the human body.
"To give expression to the discordant thoughts and
feelings in one's self is the course of least resistance,
and the habitual activity of the undeveloped, un
disciplined, and wilful individual who refuses to
understand the 'Law of his own Being' and to bring
the personal self, which is but his instrument of ex
pression, into obedience to 'That Law.'
"He, who cannot or will not control his thoughts
and feelings, is in a bad way; for every door of his
consciousness is wide open to the disintegrating ac
tivities thrown off by the minds and the emotions
of other personalities. It takes neither strength,
1o UNVEILED MYSTERIES
wisdom nor training to give way to unkind, destruc
tive impulses, and the full-grown human beings who
do this are but children in their development of
self-control.
"It is a blight upon the Life of mankind that so
little control of the emotions is taught humanity from
the cradle to the grave. ^Attention to this particular
point is the greatest need in the Western world today.
It is easy to give way to discordant thoughts, feelings,
and activities, because the mass of mankind are sub
merged as it were, by environment and association
entirely created by themselves^
"The individual, through his control of the outer
consciousness, must make the effort to rise out of
this condition by his own free will, in order to tran
scend these limitations permanently, and no one can
hope to rid his life and world of misery, discord, and
destruction until he leashes his own thought and
feeling. In this way, he refuses to let the Life—flow
ing through his mind and body— become qualified by
the discord resulting from every little disturbing
occurrence in the world about him.
"At first, such discipline does require determined,
continuous effort; for the thoughts and feelings of
ninety-five per cent of humanity, run as uncontrolled
and free as a little tramp dog.
"However, no matter how much effort it takes to
bring these two activities under control, it is worth
MEETING THE MASTER 11
any amount of time, energy, and effort and no real,
permanent dominion of one's Life and world can
take place without it. It will be my pleasure and
privilege to teach you the use of these Higher Laws.
Their application and use will enable you to release
True Wisdom and bring about All Perfection.
"The first step to the control of yourself is the
stilling of all outer activity of both mind and body.
Fifteen to thirty minutes at night before retiring
and in the morning before beginning the day's work,
using the following exercise, will do wonders for
anyone who will make the necessary effort.
"For the second step: Make certain of being un
disturbed, and after becoming very still, picture and
feel your body enveloped in a Dazzling White Light.
The first five minutes while holding this picture,
recognize and feel intensely the connection between
the outer-self and Your Mighty God Within, focus
ing your attention upon the heart center and vis
ualizing it as a Golden Sun.
"The next step is the acknowledgment: 'I now
joyously accept the fulness of the Mighty God
Presence—the Pure Christ.' Feel the great brilliancy
of the 'Light' and intensify It in every cell of your
body for at least ten minutes longer.
"Then close the meditation by the command:
I Am a Child of the 'Light'—I love the 'Light* —I serve
the 'Light? —I live in the 'Light—| am protected, Ulu
12 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
mined, supplied, sustained by the 'Light,' and I bless
the 'Light.'
"Remember always: 'One becomes that upon
which he meditates' and since all things have come
forth from the 'Light,' 'Light' is the Supreme Perfec
tion and Control of all things.
"Contemplation and adoration of the 'Light' com
pels illumination to take place in the mind— health,
strength, and order to come into the body— and
peace, harmony, and success to manifest in the affairs
of every individual who will really do
it,
and seeks to
maintain it.
"All the way down the centuries in every age,
under every condition, we are told by all who have
expressed the greater accomplishments of Life, that
the 'Light'
is
Supreme— the 'Light'
is
everywhere—
and in the 'Light' exist all things.
"That Truth
is
just as true today as
it
was
a
million
years ago. As far back as there
is
any record of hu
manity, the wise and great ones of all ages are por
trayed with
a
radiation of 'Light' about them ema
nating from the head and body of each.
"This 'Light'
is
real— just as real as the electric
lights in your homes. The day
is
not far distant
when machines will be constructed to reveal the
emanation of 'Light' about every individual, to the
physical sight of anyone who cares to observe it.
Such
a
machine will also show the contamination
MEETING THE MASTER 13
or discoloration— that becomes a cloud around the
'Light' of God, which the personal self generates
through discordant thought and feeling. This—and
this only—is the way by which the energy of the Great
Life Stream is misused and wrongly qualified.
"If you will practice this exercise faithfully and
feel it in every atom of your mind and body, with
deep, deep intensity, you will receive abundant proof
of the Tremendous Activity, Power, and Perfection
that abides and is forever active within the 'Light.'
When you have experienced this, for even a short
time, you will need no further proof. You become
your own proof. The 'Light' is The Kingdom. Enter
into It and BE— at peace. Return to the Father's
house. After the first ten days of using this exercise,
it is well to do it three time a day—morning, noon,
and night.
"We often hear the complaint: 'Oh! I cannot give
all that time.' To any who are of that opinion, I
wish to say simply this:
"The time the average person spends in criticizing,
condemning, and blaming people, conditions, and
things for not being something other than they are,
if occupied with this recognition and use of the
'Light,' will make heaven manifest on earth for
the individual who dares to try, and has determina
tion enough to maintain it. Nothing is impossible.
The 'Light' never fails.
14 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
^The 'Light' is God's Way of creating and main
tain1ng Order, Peace, and Perfection throughout His
Creation. Every human being on this earth can have
all the time he wants in which to do this when his
desire to do it is intense enough. The intensity in
the desire itself will re-order the world of people,
conditions, and things so as to provide that time, if
he earnestly wish to use it for his upward climb.
No person in the world is an exception to That
Law— for the intense desire to do anything construc
tive, when it becomes intense enough, is the God-
Power that releases the energy necessary to create
and express the thing desirecTT)
"Everyone has the same supreme privilege of con
tact with the All-Powerful Presence of God, and It
is the Only Power that ever did, does now, or ever
will raise the personal self and its world above earthly
discord and limitation.
"My Beloved Son, try this with great determina
tion and, know God in You is Your Certain Victory."
As his discourse ended, I began to realize that
he must be one of the Ascended Masters for he had
not only given me proof of his Dominion over the
elements by precipitation, but had instructed and
explained as he did it. I sat wondering how it was
that he knew me.
"My Son," he said, answering my thought at once,
"I have known you for aeons. In raising your
© 1934 Saint Germain Press
The Ascended Master Saint Germain
MEETING THE MASTER 15
thought—by your own conscious effort— it made my
coming to you possible at this time. While I have
always been in touch with you, when we were both
in our finer bodies your conscious effort of reach
ing out to some one of the Ascended Masters opened
the way for me to come to you in a much more tan
gible way, that
is,
tangible to your physical senses.
"I see you do not quite recognize me in your outer
consciousness.
I
was present during your birth, at
your mother's passing, and was instrumental in
bringing you and Lotus together— at the right time—
that your attainment might not be delayed. Again,
I
assisted in bringing you and your son into associa
tion in this embodiment. However, be patient:
"Sit still
a
few moments— watch me closely— and
1
will reveal my identity to you."
I
did as he requested
and in perhaps
a
full minute,
I
saw his face, body,
and clothing become the living, breathing, tangible
"Presence" of the Master, Saint Germain, smiling at
my astonishment and enjoying my surprise.
He stood there before me—
a
Magnificent God
like figure— in
a
white jeweled robe,
a
Light and
Love sparkling in his eyes that revealed and proved
the Dominion and Majesty that are his.
"This," he explained, "is the body in which
I
work
a
great deal of the time, when occupied with
the welfare of mankind, unless the work
I
am doing
at the moment requires closer contact with the
16 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
outer world of affairs, and in that case, I make my
body take on the characteristics and dress of the
nation with which I am working at the moment."
"Oh!" I exclaimed, "now, I know you for I have
seen you many times like that, at the Inner levels of
consciousness."
"My Son," he explained, "do you not see what
real mastery actually is? We— in the Ascended State
—can control the atomic structure of our world as
a potter controls his clay. Every electron and atom
in the universe is obedient to our desire and com
mand, because of the God-Power by which we con
trol it and of which we have earned the right to be
the Directors.
"Mankind in the unascended state marvels at these
things but I tell you, it is no more effort for us to
change the appearance and activity of our bodies
than it is for the ordinary human being to change
his clothes. The unfortunate condition in human
consciousness, that keeps individuals in their self-
created limitations, is their attitude of mind which
either fears or ridicules what it does not under
stand, or what is still worse, in its ignorance says:
'That is impossible.' A thing may not be probable
under certain human conditions, but the God Self,
which is the Great 'Light', can change all human
conditions so nothing is impossible.
"Every individual has the Divine Flame of Life
MEETING THE MASTER 17
within him, and That God Self of him has Dominion,
wherever he moves in the universe. If he, because of
his own mental inertia, will not exert the necessary
effort to reorder his age-old habits of mind and body,
he goes on bound by the chains of his own forging,
but if he choose to know the God Within himself
and dares to give that God Self all control of his outer
activities, he will receive the knowledge once more
of his Dominion over all substance, which has been
his from the beginning.
"The time has arrived, when many of humanity
are rapidly awakening, and they must in some way
be made to understand, that they have lived again
and again in hundreds— sometimes thousands— of
lives, each time in a new physical body.
"The Law of re-embodiment is the activity in
human growth that gives the individual an oppor
tunity to re-establish a balance, in conditions that he
has consciously caused to be thrown out of balance.
It is but one activity of the law of compensation—
cause and effect, or what might be called an auto
matic balancing process, governing all forces
everywhere in the universe. The right understand
ing of this Law gives one the explanation of many
conditions in human experience, which otherwise
seem wholly unjust. It is the only logical explana
tion for the infinite complexities and experiences of
human creation, and reveals the operation and the
18 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
Law upon which all manifestation rests. It makes
one know that there is no such thing as chance or
accident. All is under direct, exact, and Perfect Law.
Every experience of consciousness has a former cause,
and everything at the same instant is the cause of a
future effect.
"If a man has injured a woman in one life, he is
certain to be reincarnated in a feminine form and
pass through a similar experience until he realizes
and experiences that which he has caused another
to endure. The same thing is true if a woman be
unjust or injures a man. This is the only way by
which one is compelled, or rather compels himself,
to experience both the cause and effect of every
thing which he generates in the world. The indi
vidual can create and experience whatsoever he will
in his own world; but if he choose to do that which
causes others to experience discord, then he com
pels himself to go through a similar condition until
he understands what the effect of his own creation
is upon the rest of the Life of the universe.
"Come with me, and let us review the physical
life in which you used a feminine form in France,
wherein you were a singer of splendid accomplish
ment with a voice of rare beauty and power."
Immediately, without the least effort on my part,
I stood outside my physical body, seeing it clearly
as it reposed upon the ground. I wondered, if it
MEETING THE MASTER 19
would be safe there on the mountainside, and in
answer to my thought, Saint Germain replied:
"Do not be disturbed. Not a thing in the world can
harm your body while we are away. Observe!"
Instantly, I saw it surrounded by a White Flame,
forming a circle about fifty feet in diameter.
He placed his right arm around me, and I saw
we were rising rapidly from the ground but I soon
became adjusted to his vibratory action. There was
no definite feeling of motion through space, but
presently we looked down upon a village in the south
of France, and he continued:
"Here, you were born as an only child, the
daughter of a beautiful woman, whose life was an
example of idealism far in advance of the majority
in that period. Your father was a most devoted hus
band and companion, highly cultured, and inspired
by the early Christian Spirit.
"The atmospheric ether of every environment re
cords all that has ever transpired in that locality. I
will revivify these Etheric Records and you shall
see living pictures, giving every detail of your life.
"You sang at the church of this village and studied
with a teacher, who persuaded your parents to let her
give you training. You made rapid progress, and then
received still greater advantages, when they moved
to Paris. After a year of intensive study, an opportu
nity came to sing before the Queen of France, and
UNVEILED MYSTERIES
through her patronage you had appearances at many
of her salons. This assured you a successful musical
career. France and success lavished their gifts upon
you for the next five years, and you accumulated
much wealth.
"Suddenly, both parents passed through the
change called death and the shock to you was very
great, followed by many weeks of serious illness.
When you recovered and returned again to concert
work, a new sympathetic quality had come into your
voice, through the recent experience of grief.
"A man, who had guided much of your musical
study, became director of your public work, and you
came to depend upon him as one who seemed worthy
of trust. Then followed fourteen years of brilliant
success, at the end of which you became suddenly ill
and passed on within a week. Your jewels and wealth
were left in care of the director to be used to help
others, and to fulfill certain plans for which you had
worked all your life. The last rites were no sooner
over, than a complete change took place within him.
Greed took possession entirely. Now, I shall show
you that man whom you met some years ago here in
America in your present life. The incident in busi
ness, I am quite sure you will remember clearly."
Here, he showed me a business association in
which I had tried to help several people while in
the West some ten years previously, in connection
MEETING THE MASTER 21
with a representative from the Belgian government.
"That man," he continued, "was given a chance
here to right the wrong he did you in France. He
was shown the condition, and knew full well the
situation for we showed it to him, but he was not yet
strong enough to permit the working out of the
Great Cosmic Law of Justice and balance that debt.
If he had done so of his own volition, it would have
given him freedom in many ways and enabled him to
have progressed much more rapidly in this embodi
ment."
Thus, does the outer life keep the individual
bound to the wheel of necessity, rebirth, continued
struggle, and pain until we let the "Light of the
Christ Within" illumine and purify us that we may
respond only to the Plan of God— Love, Peace, and
Perfection for His Creation. This is the kind of
lesson one never forgets because objective teach
ing records the experience in the vision as well as
in the mind. The record in the sight is deeper and
necessarily receives more attention from the outer
activity of the intellect.
The essence of that long forgotten experience
certainly fixed itself in my memory permanently,
for I can recall every detail of it to this day, as clearly
as when I observed it with him.
"Now," he went on, "let us recall another ot your
embodiments— one that you had in Egypt."
22 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
|VVe rose from the earth, and moved rapidly for
ward. I was very conscious of the Mediterranean, as
we passed over its beautiful waters. We went on to
Karnak and Luxor, then again came into contact
with the earth.
"Watch closely." he said. "This record is of a very
ancient temple in Luxor—not among those whose
ruins the archaeologists are exploring today but one
antedating any that have been discovered so far. If
they knew where to look, they would find magnificent
temples in a state of almost perfect preservation." )
Indicating a certain spot filled with ruins, which
is all that travelers can see today, the scene became
replaced by the activity in the ether, as it had origi
nally been in all its beauty and splendor, far more
magnificent than anything of which the present
generation has any concept.
The gardens and pools were surrounded by great
pillars of white marble and rose granite. The entire
locality became living— real— vibrant— and just as
tangible as any physical city on earth today. It was
so perfectly natural and normal that I asked how
he made these experiences so vivid?
"Man and his creations," he replied, "as well as
Nature, have an etheric counterpart— a pattern—
which makes its eternal impression upon the atmos
phere about him wherever he goes. The pattern
of the individual's activity and life experience is
MEETING THE MASTER
within his own aura all the time. A similar record
exists in the aura of every locality. An Ascended
Master may if he choose, revivify or reclothe the
individual's record of former activities wherever
that person happens to be for the pattern upon which
the Master coalesces the atomic structure is always
in the aura of that individual. When the Master re-
clothes the record of a locality he must do it in the
same specific place; for such a record, when re-
clothed, becomes the same living form and structure
that it was when first built in physical substance.
In this way, it is possible to coalesce againthe ^J^v^>
physical structure of entire buildings and t"heir sur
round1ngs, when the Ascended Master so desires,
for the accomplishment of some good purpose. When
one has attained this God-given Dominion he can
and does reclothe and reanimate any Etheric Rec
ord he desires to make visible for the instruction
and benefit of students and others!
￼
"When he does this— if is as real as reality itself—
and the reclothed objects can be photographed,
handled and made physically tangible to the phys
ical senses of the one observing them.
"Notice!" he reminded me, "you are experiencing
these activities in your finer body, but they are none
the less real because of that, for your physical body
is only a garment which you, the Self-Conscious,
thinking, and experiencing individual, wear.
24 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
"It is the same as though you wore a heavy overcoat
in the cold winter atmosphere and only a light suit
of clothes on a very warm summer day. Experiences
in your light suit of clothes would surely be no
less real— than those you lived through in your heavy
overcoat. I call this to your attention, that you may
understand the fuller and less limited activities of
Life." We examined the grounds, the surrounding
country, and architecture.
"Come, let us enter," he said, and as he spoke,
stepped forward and passed through the main en
trance into the temple itself. We then became living
actors and at the same time observers of the fol
lowing experience. We passed into the main part of
the temple, and proceeded toward the Inner Sanc
tuary. The High Priest came directly up to us, and
seemed to know me.
"This priest of ancient days," Saint Germain ex
plained, "is now your son." A lesser priest appeared
whom I immediately felt I knew, and he remarked:
"The assisting priest was yourself." We entered the
Inner Sanctuary and saw the vestal virgin guarding
the Sacred Fire. She, whom I now beheld, was Lotus,
my beloved Twin Ray, whom I met and married
some years ago and who is the mother of our son.
The scene changed and we saw a visiting prince
from a distant province plan to seize the vestal virgin
for his bride. All seemed to go well, until the High
MEETING THE MASTER 25
Priest was shown a vision of what was about to take
place. It disturbed him but he kept his own counsel.
Standing guard as the slaves of the prince en
tered he watched them approach the Sanctuary.
As they came nearer, he stepped forward and spoke
but one word, that meant—
"Stop!"
One slave, bolder than the rest, came on. The
High Priest warned him back but still he came
nearer. When he reached a certain Sacred Circle of
force which emanated from the Altar, the priest
no longer hesitated. He stepped to the outer-edge
of that Protecting Radiance, raised his right hand,
and pointed directly at the slave.
A flash of Flame shot forth like lightning and
the slave fell lifeless to the floor. The prince, who
was watching, came forward in an insane rage.
"Stop!" commanded the priest again in a voice
like a clap of thunder. The prince hesitated for a
moment, stunned by the very power of the word,
and the priest continued:
"Listen to me! You shall not desecrate the high
est of God's Gifts to the Temple of Life. Begone!
before you follow the example of your too brazen
and misdirected slave."
The High Priest was fully conscious of the power
he could wield and as he stood watching the prince,
he was the very embodiment of self-control— of II
26 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
limitable force, consciously held in obedience to his
will. He was Majesty—crowned with Eternal Power.
The will of the prince was powerful also, but he
had no control over himself and, as another wave
of blind rage swept over him, when he found him
self again opposed, and giving full vent to lust, he
rushed forward.
The priest quick as a flash raised his hand. The
Flame flashed out a second time and the prince fol
lowed the fate of his former slave.
Saint Germain turned to me, and explained the
experience still further.
"You see," he began, "that is the way the quality
within every force reacts upon the one who sends
it out. The prince and his slave came with the quali
ties of hate, selfishness, and depravity within their
feelings and, when the priest directed the force, of
which he was the master, toward them, it took on
their qualities the moment it touched their auras.
He merely turned their own feelings and selfish
ness back upon themselves. The priest in his un
selfish effort to protect another was himself also
protected."
That incident closed, the scene of splendor van
ished, and again we stood amidst the temple ruins.
Saint Germain revealed still more to me, which may
not be recorded here.
There is only one way," he went on, "to avoid
MEETING THE MASTER 27
the cosmic wheel of cause and effect—the necessity
for re-embodiment—and that is through the rnn-
scious effort to comprehend the Law of Life] One
must earnestly seek the God Within, make perma
nent, conscious contact with that 'Inner Self and
hold firmly to it in the face of every condition in
the outer life. It will be my pleasure and privilege to
show you more, but only for the instruction it will
bring to yourself and others. Come! We must now
return." As we came near my body, he instructed
again:
"Watch the circle of White Flame disappear!" I
looked. It vanished. A moment later I was back in
my body. The sun was sinking, and I knew it would
be nearly midnight by the time we arrived home.
"Place your arm about my shoulder," said Saint
Germain, "and close your eyes." I felt my body lifted
from the ground, but I was not particularly con
scious of moving forward. Presently, my feet touched
the floor and opening my eyes— I stood in the lodge.
Saint Germain was greatly amused, when I asked,
how it was that we could come back in this manner
without attracting the attention of the people about
us, and he answered;
"We many times draw about our bodies the cloak
of invisibility, when moving among those in physical
form," and the next second he was gone.
I had heard of the Great Ascended Masters who
28 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
could take their bodies with them wherever they go,
and manifest or bring into" visibility anything they
desire to use direct from the Universal. However,
to experience actual contact with one of them was
a very different thing, and I tried to realize in full
the marvel of the experience. To Saint Germain, it
was evidently a most ordinary occurrence.
I sat in quiet contemplation for a long time in
deep, deep gratitude, trying to comprehend and
to fully realize his explanation of "The Law" con
cerning desire. He emphasized its importance and
activity as a motive power in the universe, to propel
forward new ideas compelling an expansion of con
sciousness to take place within the Life of every
individual. He had explained it by saying:
^Constructive
Desire is the expanding activity
within Life, for it is only in this way that greater
and greater ideas, activity, and accomplishment are
pushed through into expression in the outer world
of substance and formj. Within every Right Desire
is the power of its fulfillment. Man is the Son of God.
He is commanded by the Father to choose how he
shall direct the Life energy, and what quality he
wishes his fulfilled desire to express. This he must
do for free will is his birthright.
"It is the function of the outer activity of the in
tellect to guide all expansion into constructive
channels. This is the purpose and duty of the outer
MEETING THE MASTER 29
self. To allow the Great Life, or God-Energy, to be
used only for the gratification of the sense desires—
the habit of the mass of mankind— is its destructive
use and is always without any exception followed
by inharmony, weakness, failure, and destruction.
"The constructive use of desire is the conscious
direction of this limitless God-Energy, by Wisdom.
All desire, directed by Wisdom, carries some kind
of blessing to the rest of creation. All desire, directed
by the God Within, goes forth with the feeling of
Love and blesses always." The next few days, I spent
writing this record of my experiences. Then one
morning on awakening I found a golden card lying
on the table near my couch. It looked like a piece of
metallic gold, and on it in beautiful shaded script of
a lovely violet color, was just one short sentence:
"Be at our trysting place on the mountain at seven
in the morning," signed, "Saint Germain."
I put this card away carefully, and could scarcely
wait the intervening time, so great was my expect
ancy. Early the next morning, while preparing a
lunch, there came a distinct impulse not to take
anything with me. I obeyed, and decided to trust
that my needs would be supplied directly from the
Universal.
Light of heart, I was soon on my way, determined
not to miss any opportunity to ask questions, if per
mitted. As I approached the appointed place, rsyf
3o UNVEILED MYSTERIES
body became lighter and lighter until by the time I
was within a quarter of a mile, my feet scarcely
touched the ground. There was no one in sight, so
I sat down on a log to wait for Saint Germain feel
ing no fatigue whatsoever, although my hike had
been about ten miles.
As I contemplated the wonderful privilege and
blessing that had come to me, I heard a twig crack
and looked around expecting to see him. Imagine
my surprise, when not fifty feet away, I saw a pan
ther— slowly approaching. My hair must have stood
on end. I wanted to run, to scream— anything— so
frantic was the feeling of fear within me. It would
have been useless to move, for one spring from the
panther would have been fatal to me.
My brain whirled so great was my fear, but one
idea came through clearly and held my attention
steady. I realized that I had the Mighty "Presence
of God" right within me, and that this "Presence"
was all Love. This beautiful animal was a part of
God's Life also, and I made myself look at
it,
di
rectly in the eyes. Then came the thought, that one
part of God could not harm another part.
I
was con
scious of this fact only.
A feeling of Love swept over me, and went out
like
a
Ray of Light directly to the panther and with
it
went my fear. The stealthy tread ceased and
I
moved slowly toward
it,
feeling that God's Love filled
MEETING THE MASTER 31
us both. The vicious glare in the eyes softened, the
animal straightened up, and came slowly to me, rub
bing its shoulder against my leg. I reached down and
stroked the soft head. It looked up into my eyes for
a moment and then, lay down and rolled over like
a playful kitten. The fur was a beautiful, dark, red
dish brown: the body long, supple and of great
strength. I continued to play with it and when
I suddenly looked up, Saint Germain stood beside
me.
"My Son," he said, "I saw the great strength within
you or I would not have permitted so great a test.
You have conquered fear. My congratulations! Had
you not conquered the outer-self, I would not have
allowed the panther to harm you, but our association
would have ceased for a time.
"I did not have anything to do with the panther
being there. It was part of the Inner operation of
the Great Law, as you will see before the association
with your new-found friend ceases. Now, that you
have passed the test of courage, it is possible for me
to give much greater assistance. Each day you will
become stronger, happier, and express much greater
freedom."
He held out his hand, and in a moment there ap
peared four little cakes of a beautiful golden brown,
each about two inches square. He offered these and
I ate them at his direction. They were most delicious.
32 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
Immediately, I felt a quickening, tingling sensation
through my entire body— a new sense of health and
clearness of mind. Saint Germain seated himself be
side me and my instruction began.
CHAPTER II
The Sahara Desert
""T"NSTEAD of going forth from the body as in
I your recent experience, today we will use the
JL. Projected Consciousness," he remarked, as he
placed the thumb of his right hand between my eyes
and the rest of his fingers over the top of my head.
A feeling like a powerful electric current passed
over my entire body. Removing his hand, he con
tinued:
"I wish you to fix firmly in mind, and recall fre
quently for contemplation the fact that the Laws I ex
plain, and teach you to use, are to bring you into a
condition of Conscious Mastery over all forces and
things on earth. This means that no matter what is
being experienced you are always at every instant in
complete, conscious control of your own mind and
body, and able to use your own free will at all times.
"In this state of Projected Consciousness, you are
completely conscious and have full mastery over
all your faculties every instant. There is nothing
whatsoever about any of this instruction and its
use, that is either of the trance or hypnotic condi
tion at any time, for in both trance and hypnosis the
experiencing individual's Conscious Will is not func-
33
34 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
tioning, which is a most dangerous and disastrous
activity to anyone who permits it to take place in
his mind and body.
"There is no Conscious Mastery or Dominion
in trance or hypnotic practices, and they are most
destructive and dangerous to the Soul Growth of
the one who permits such practice. Please under
stand thoroughly that the Conscious Control, Mas
tery, and use of the forces and things on this earth,
should at all times be under the direction of your
Inner or God Self, through the perfect co-operation
and obedience of all outer faculties in both mind
and body, to that Inner Guidance.
"There is no such thing as Mastery without this,
and those known as the Ascended Masters never,
never intrude any activity upon the God-given pre
rogative of the individual's free will.
"A student may be given the experience of Projec
tion, if an Ascended Master choose to expand his
consciousness temporarily, so that he experiences
things happening in two or more places at the same
time. In such a condition, the student's faculties are
completely under the control and direction of his
own free will at every moment. He is fully con
scious and active wherever his body may be, and
also at the place to which the Ascended Master
chooses to direct his attention for the instruction.
"The reason an Ascended Master temporarily
THE SAHARA DESERT 35
raises the consciousness of the student is to show him
how he may do this same thing for himself by his own
effort consciously, and at will.
"Projected Consciousness is but increasing the rate
of vibration of the atomic structure in both the mind
and body of the student. This is done by the radiation
from an Ascended Master, and is an activity of the
'Light' which increases the vibratory rate up to the
keynote He sets for the experience. In the higher
rate, one uses his faculties of sight and hearing
exactly as he does in daily life, except that they are
expanded into the next octave or zone above the
human.
"Such use of our senses is the same as we experi
ence every moment of the waking state, because we
can become aware of that which is near and that
which is distant at exactly the same instant. The ex
pansion or contraction of our consciousness is de
pendent entirely upon what the individual desires.
This is always subject to the free will and conscious
direction of the student.
"One can of his own choice be conscious of a cer
tain tree in his garden or of the entire garden. He
uses the same faculty of sight to observe both, and
uses it in exactly the same way. When he wants to
see all of the garden, he makes his sight enlarge its
activity until it takes in all he desires. The larger
expansion still includes the smaller; so you see, you
36 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
must be conscious of the full control of all your
faculties in both places at the same time. The ac
tivity that takes place is really an enlargement of the
force-field in which the sight acts.
"The use of your faculty of sight, in this projection
or expansion of consciousness, is accomplished by
the raising of the vibratory rate in the optic nerve.
The whole process corresponds to the thing that
takes place when one uses a field or marine glass.
"In ordinary experience, human consciousness has
been accustomed to use its faculties only within
certain zones or force-fields, and the proof of this
is that one can listen to the sound of a person's
voice, who is physically present in the room speak
ing to him, and one can also hear the bell of a tele
phone ring somewhere else in the house at iden
tically the same instant. All the faculties of the outer
activity are elastic. They may be used as either a
microscope or a telescope, depending entirely upon
the desire and will of the individual.
"If one can be conscious of sound in the room in
which his physical body stands, and also be aware
of sound two or three rooms distant, by exactly the
same process, in a still farther expansion of this
faculty, he can hear at a more distant place. To do
this, one must increase the vibratory rate until it
reaches into the more distant zone.
"When you contemplate this Great Inner God
THE SAHARA DESERT 37
Activity, do you not see how perfectly and readily
the outer senses merge into the Inner, and what has
been two becomes One.
"This activity of consciousness can be applied to
all the other senses, as well as those of sight and
hearing. Such a raising process is natural, normal,
and harmonious, as simple as the tuning of your
radios to any desired wave-length. Radio wave
lengths and those of sight and hearing are parts
of the same activity. Sound contains color and color
contains sound. In ordinary daily experience, human
beings can hear color and see sound whenever they
become still enough.
"Within certain octaves or zones, vibration reg
isters upon the nerves of the eyes and the result is
what we call sight. Others register upon the nerves of
the ears and the result is what we call hearing. The
average person's eyes only see objects whose vibra
tory rate comes within these certain octaves, for they
do not see below the infra-red, or above the ultra
violet ray or zone. Through the Radiation of an
Ascended Master, the atomic structure of the brain
and eye vibrates fast enough to expand into the
next octave above the human.
"This same activity can be expanded several oc
taves further, either by the Master's Radiation, or
at the command of the Inner or God Self of the
individual. Many persons do have such experiences
38 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
involuntarily, but rarely understand, what they
mean, or how they come about. In cases, where indi
viduals have had moments of Transcendent Con
sciousness, or been highly inspired, this is what has
occurred, although they seldom recognize the as
sistance they have been given.
"Projected Consciousness or Vision has nothing
whatsoever to do with mental pictures, produced
by suggestions that exist only in the minds of other
human beings. Such thoughts and pictures are but
flashed directly into the mind of another person,
by the one sending the suggestion. It is the same
activity that takes place when one reflects the image
of the sun into a mirror, and then deflects it upon
the wall.
"Suggestion is as different from Projected Con
sciousness, as thinking about a place is different
from being physically present. Projection is vivid,
living, real, as when your physical body is going
through an experience, for it is the action of your
Inner God Self with whom the Ascended Master
is ONE—The Supreme."
Saint Germain and I then became observers and
actors in a scene of long ago. Again, I was outwardly
conscious of going through experiences shown me
in thought, feeling, and action. The entire operation
was as natural and normal as breathing, and the only
unusual sensation about it was the feeling of greater
THE SAHARA DESERT 39
freedom and a sense of dominion. We both became
very still for a few moments, -as_Jie revivified the
Etheric Records, and my iastDictiaa began
"This is the Sahara Desert." he said, "when it was-
fertile country having a semi-tropical climate."
There were many streams of water carrying abun
dant moisture everywhere in the land. In the midst
of this empire lay the capital, famous throughout the
world for its splendor. The executive buildings were
placed in the center upon a slight elevation, and from
these, the city itself extended equally in every di
rection.
(This civilization," he went on, "rose to its apex
^ej^eriBL-thousand years ago^)
We entered the city, and felt an unusual rhythmic
activity that gave one a strange sensation of light
ness while walking. The people all moved about
with great ease and grace. I asked Saint Germain the
reason for this, and he replied:
"These people remembered their Source and
knew themselves as Sons of God hence, were the
possessors and operators of power and wisdom that,
to you may seem miraculous and superhuman.
Truthfully speaking, there are no such things as
miracles, for all is according to Law and that, which
seems miraculous to the present concept of human
ity, is but the result of the application of laws
to which mankind's present consciousness is
40 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
unaccustomed, and so seems strange and unusual.
"When the Reality of Life is correctly under
stood, all manifestation, that seems miraculous to
your present consciousness, is found to be just as
natural and normal an experience as the forming of
words are to one who has learned the use of the
alphabet. It is all the action of an ever-expanding,
ever progressing manifestation of Life in form, and
this comes about at all times through an orderly
process of Law, in love and peace.
"No matter how strange, unusual, and impossible
an experience seems to humanity's present mental
state, it is no proof that there is not a Greater Law
and a Wiser Intelligence acting, to produce greater
wonders of creation surrounding us all the time.
"The knowledge of the greatest minds of human
ity in the outer world today, is to this Great Inner
Wisdom and Power, as the understanding of a small
child is to the study of calculus."
In one building of the central group, we found the
attendants attired in most gorgeous fabrics of soft,
radiant colors, that harmonized with the interior
decoration. One of these acted as guide, taking us to
the central building, and there he presented us to
the king of this great people. The king proved to be—
Saint Germain.
Beside him stood a young girl, very beautiful. She
had hair like spun gold that hung almost to the floor
THE SAHARA DESERT 41
and eyes of a piercing violet-blue. Her entire bearing
was one of loving command. I looked inquiringly at
Saint Germain, wondering who she could be, and he
answered:
"Lotus."
Beside her stood a young man about twenty years
of age and a lad perhaps fourteen. The young man
was he, whom we had seen as the High Priest in
the temple at Luxor, and the lad was the lesser
priest. These were the children of the king. Again,
we four were working together.
"With this glimpse of former lives," he said, "let
us enter into the activity of that blessed people. I say
blessed advisedly, and you shall soon see why. The
majority of them still retained the full conscious use
of all their wisdom and power as Sons of God, and
this they wielded almost without limit, knowing
full well from whence they sprang, and to what
they were heirs.
"The outer was but the instrument of the Divine
Self, as it should be, and was only permitted to do
that for which it was created. Naturally, the Great
Inner Self could act unfettered, and of course the
perfection and activity of that period was one of
magnificent accomplishment."
At the time of this former civilization, the whole
empire was filled with great peace, happiness and
prosperity. The King-Emperor was a "Master of
48 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
the Ancient Wisdom" and a real "Cupbearer of
the Light." He ruled by that "Light" and his empire
was the living example of Perfection.
"For hundreds of years," Saint Germain continued,
"this Perfection was maintained without army or
navy of any kind. The control of the people was
vested in the care of fourteen Ascended Masters of
Light, two working on each of the Seven Rays. They
thus formed points of focus for the Mighty God-
Activity to be made visible. Under these fourteen
Luminous Beings were fourteen lesser Masters, who
formed the heads of seven departments, controlling
the activities of science, industry and art. Each of
the department heads guided the work under his
care by conscious and direct contact with the God in
himself. Hence, direct from their Source did all direc
tion and instruction come for those under them.
3 Thus, Divine Perfection was constantly flowing
*\through without any interference from the human.
"This form of government was most remarkable,
succes^fuT/^tnd^aYisfactory in everyjyay. There has
never been anything on earth since that time which
has even approached such heights. In the ancient
records, that have come down to the present day,
this former civilization is always referred to as the
Golden Age, and so it was in every activity of Life.
"In your beloved America, in the not so far distant
future, will come forth a similar recognition of the
THE SAHARA DESERT 43
Real Inner Self, and this her people will express in
high attainment. She is a Land of Light, and Her
Light shall blaze forth, brilliant as the sun at noon
day, among the nations of the earth. She was a Land
of Great Light, ages ago, and will again come into
her spiritual heritage, for nothing can prevent it.
She is strong within her own mind and body—
stronger than you think; and that strength she will
exert to rise out of, and throw off from border to
border, all that weighs heavily upon her at the pres
ent time.
"America has a destiny of great import to the other
nations of the earth and Those who have watched
over her for centuries still watch. Through Their
protection and Love, she shall fulfill that destiny.
America! We, the Ascended Host of Light, love and
guard you. America! We love you.
"A similar form of perfect government will come
at a later period, when you have cast off certain fet
ters within that hang like fungi, and sap your
strength as a vampire. Beloved ones in America, be
not discouraged, when the seeming dark clouds hang
low. Everyone of them shall show you its golden lin
ing. Back of the cloud that seems to threaten, is the
'Crystal Pure Light of God and His Messengers, the
Ascended Masters of Love and Perfection'— watching
over America, the government, and her people.
Again I say, 'America— we love you.'
44 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
"One by one, great awakened souls are coming
forth who will become clearly conscious of their own
mighty, inherent God-Power, and such as these will
be placed in all official positions of the government.
They will be more interested in the welfare of Amer
ica than in their own personal ambitions and private
fortunes. Thus, will another Golden Age reign upon
earth, and be maintained for an aeon.
"In the period, just preceding this, which you have
been experiencing, the mass of the people used great
airships for transportation purposes. As the develop
ment reached a still higher point, they had little
need for them, except in the outlying districts. All
the official class, because they were the more spirit
ually advanced souls of that race, were able to go
from place to place in the finer bodies and do all they
desired, the same as in your recent experience at
Luxor. They also were able to transport the physical
body at will, for the use of their power to overcome
gravity was as natural as breathing is to you.
"Gold was a common commodity in this age, as in
all 'Golden Ages,' because its natural emanation is a
purifying, balancing, and vitalizing energy or force.
It is placed within the earth by the 'Lords of Crea
tion'— those 'Great Beings of Light and Love' who
create and direct worlds, systems of worlds, and the
expansion of the Light in the beings upon them.
"The outer mind or intellectual knowledge of hu
THE SAHARA DESERT 45
manity, holds within it little— very little— under
standing of the real purpose for which gold exists on
this planet. It grows within the earth like a plant,
and through it there is constantly pouring a purify
ing, vitalizing, and balancing current of energy into
the very ground we walk upon, as well as into the
growth of Nature and the atmosphere we breathe.
"Gold is placed upon this planet for a variety of
uses, two of its most trivial and unimportant ones
being that of using gold as a means of exchange and
for ornamentation. The far greater activity and pur
pose of
it,
within and upon the earth,
is
the release of
its own inherent quality and energy to purify, vital
ize and balance the atomic structure of the world.
"The scientific world today has no inkling as yet
of this activity. However,
it
serves the same purpose
to our earth that radiators do to our homes. Gold
is
one of the most important ways by which the energy
from our sun
is
supplied to the interior of the earth,
and
a
balance of activities maintained. As
a
conveyor
of this energy,
it
acts as
a
transformer to pass the sun's
force into the physical substance of our world, as well
as to the Life evolving upon it. The energy within
gold
is
really the radiant, electronic force from the
sun, acting in
a
lower octave. Gold
is
sometimes
called
a
precipitated sun-ray.
"As the energy within gold
is
of an extremely high
vibratory rate,
it
can only act upon the finer and
46 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
more subtle expressions of Life, through absorption.
In all 'Golden Ages,' this metal comes into plentiful
and common use by the mass of the people, and
whenever such a condition occurs, the spiritual de
velopment of that people reaches a very high state.
In these ages, the gold is never hoarded but instead,
is widely distributed into the use of the mass who,
absorbing its purifying energy, are themselves raised
into greater perfection. Such is the right use of gold,
and when this Law is consciously understood and
obeyed, the individual may draw any quantity he
desires to himself by the use of that Law.
"Because of the gold deposits in all mountain
ranges, one finds health and vigor in Life upon the
mountains that he cannot find at any other place on
the earth's surface. No one ever heard of detrimental
effects coming to those who constantly handle pure
gold. While in its pure state, it is soft and wears away
easily, still that very quality is the fulfilling of this
purpose of which I have just spoken.
"The more advanced of these people produced
much gold by precipitation direct from the Uni
versal. The domes of many buildings were covered
with sheets of pure gold and the interiors decorated
with brilliant jewels in curious yet marvelous de
signs. These jewels were also precipitated— direct
from the One Eternal Substance.
"As in all ages past, there was a portion of the peo
THE SAHARA DESERT 47
pie who became more interested in the temporary
pleasures of the senses than in the larger creative
plan of the Great God Self. This caused them to lose
consciousness of the God-Power throughout the
land, until it remained active in little more than
the city itself. The capital was called the 'City of the
Sun.'
"Those governing realized they must with
draw and let the people learn, through hard expe
rience, that all their happiness and good came from
the adoration to the God Within, and they must
come back into the 'Light,' if they were to be happy."
The King-Emperor, through the Inner Wisdom,
seeing that the people were becoming still more
deeply enmeshed in the sense gratification, realized
that it was no longer the Divine Plan to further sus
tain the kingdom. He was instructed, by those of
greater spiritual authority than himself, to give a
banquet announcing his decision to withdraw, and
thus bid his subjects farewell.
He called the councilors together, and gave direc
tions for the banquet, ordering it held in the most
magnificent place of the empire, known as the
Jeweled Room in the king's palace. This was lighted
by self-luminous globes that emitted a brilliant,
white radiance. They were suspended from the ceil
ing by chains of crystal. While the light within was
intense and brilliant, yet it had an extremely sooth
48 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
ing effect upon the body, giving those in its radiance
a sense of great ease and calm. The light from the
central globe set the jewels ablaze in the sunburst
design that formed the great medallion in the middle
of the ceiling.
The large banquet hall was elaborately decorated
and set with twenty-four white onyx tables, each
seating twenty-four guests. This was the first occasion
upon which all the king's councilors and their staffs
were to be his guests at the same time. The announce
ment of the banquet caused much comment among
the people who discussed it thoroughly, each with his
neighbor, but to all it was a mystery, for none was
able to discern its purpose.
The evening of the event came at last. No one sus
pected the sorrow within the heart of the noble ruler,
nor did they dream of the change so soon to come
upon them. The hour arrived, the guests assembled,
and everyone breathed mystery.
The great bronze doors to the banquet hall swung
majestically open, and a burst of transcendent music,
as if played by a gigantic symphony, in the invisible,
came forth, surprising even those who knew the tre
mendous power of their adored monarch. He was
looked upon almost like a God by the people, so great
was their love and admiration for the wisdom and
help he constantly poured out to them.
As the triumphal music ceased, the king entered
THE SAHARA DESERT 49
accompanied by his children. The girl was a vision
of loveliness. She wore a gown of soft golden fabric,
unlike any material of our modern world. The over-
drape appeared as if covered with diamonds for with
every movement of her body points of light flashed
forth. The golden hair falling over her shoulders was
caught with two emerald clasps. On her forehead was
a single band of white metal, set with diamonds. In
the center was what appeared to be a large diamond
but was really a powerful condensation of "Light,"
focused and maintained there by her father.
The king was the only one in the whole empire
who was entrusted with the use of such Transcendent
Power. The royal family had never used these
"Jewels of Light" in their contact with the outer
world, until that night. Such use of this power was
only permitted in their private worship of the Great
God Self of whose "Supreme Presence" they were
keenly and constantly aware.
The ruler and his two sons wore form-fitting gar
ments of the same soft golden fabric as the daughter.
These were as pliable as leather but made of metallic
gold with breast-plates like a great sun of jewels.
They wore sandals of the same material, also set with
precious stones, and the wonderful "Jewel of Light"
rested upon the forehead of each.
The king gave a signal, and the assembled guests
were seated. In a voice majestic and powerful, he
50 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
poured out an invocation from the depths of his
heart to that "Infinite Supreme One."
"O Thou Mighty Omnipresent Source, Thou who
doest govern the Universe, the Flame in each human
heart! we give love, praise and gratitude unto Thee
for Thine own Life, Light, and Love in all things.
We adore Thee, and look only unto Thee, the 'Pres
ence' in all things— visible and invisible, evolved and
unevolved, Thou ceaselessly flowing Stream of Life,
Who doth forever pour Thyself into all creation,
the One Self in All.
"My heart calls unto Thee as never before to
arouse these, my people, to their danger, for of late
indifference to Thee is creeping over them like a
poisonous breath, producing a soul-sleep and draw
ing a veil before them that shuts out 'Thy Shining
Presence.'
"If they must have the experience that consumes
and burns away the dross and clouds of the outer-self,
then do Thou sustain and at last bring them forth in
Thy Eternal Perfection. I call unto Thee, Thou
Creator of the Universe— Thou Supreme Omnipo
tent God."
The king took his seat and all waited in silent ex
pectation. In a few moments, the service for each in
dividual appeared before him. Course after course
was served as if by unseen hands, the food coming in
marvelous crystal and jeweled containers, then dis
THE SAHARA DESERT 51
appearing as soon as the course was finished, fol
lowed immediately by the succeeding one. Finally,
the most elaborate banquet the empire had ever
known came to an end. All was silence again, as if in
breathless expectancy, anticipating some most un
usual occurrence.
The king arose and stood a few moments calmly
waiting. Soon, a crystal goblet appeared at the right
hand of each guest. These were filled with a con
densation of Pure Electronic Essence and for all who
drank it, no matter how far down the ages his life-
stream extended or how varied his experiences, he
never could completely forget the "God Self
Within." This soul-protection was granted to those
at the banquet, as a reward for their faith and loyalty
to the God in themselves, the king, and the empire.
The councilors and those present had served sin
cerely and continuously for the good of the empire,
and for that service, soul-protection through the
centuries was given to them.
Each lifted his goblet and drank to the "God in
himself"— to his own "Flame of the Most High Liv
ing One." The proceedings of the banquet were
broadcast to everyone in the empire, through a radio
similar to that which we use today. It was no larger
than a dinner plate, yet powerful enough to receive
what was happening at any point on the earth's sur
face.
52 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
After the salutation to the Divine Self in each, all
became very still, the atmosphere itself seeming per
fectly motionless. In a few moments, a Wondrous
"Presence" slowly became visible in front of the
king.
That "Presence" was a "Cosmic Master" from out
the "Great Silence." A murmur of awe and surprise
passed over the assembled guests at his appearance,
as they recognized in amazement One of Whom they
had heard for many centuries, yet Whose visible
"Presence" none had ever seen. Raising his right
hand, he addressed those present and all dwelling
within the empire.
"O Children of Earth, I bring you a warning of
serious import, at a time of great crisis. Arouse your
selves from the snare of the senses that is engulfing
you! Awake from your lethargy, before it is too late!
This—my 'Brother of Light' must withdraw and
leave you to the experience that you have chosen,
and which is slowly enticing you into its many pit
falls. You have opened yourselves to the uncon
trolled ignorance and emotions of the outer-self.
"You give little attention and still less adoration
to your 'Source'— the Supreme, the Mighty, the Radi
ant, the Majestic, the Infinite Cause of all that is— the
Creator and Sustainer of all worlds. You give no grat
itude to the 'Great Glorious Presence'— the 'Lord of
Love,' for the very Life by which you exist.
THE SAHARA DESERT 53
"Oh! why are you not even grateful, for the bless
ings Nature pours out so lavishly, for the abundance
that comes to you through this fair land, and from
your own wise and unselfish ruler? You thank each
other for favors— the things of the senses and form
that are so ephemeral, that pass from one to another
and then are no more; but why, Oh why! do you for
get the 'Source' of all Life, all Love, all Intelligence,
all Power?
"People! O People! where is your gratitude to
Life, for Love, for the magnificence of experience
that you enjoy every moment, every hour, every day,
year after year? All this you call your own, but it has
always belonged, does now, and always will belong to
the One Great Source of Life, Light, Love and All
Good—GOD— the Supreme—the Adorable— the All-
Pervading One.
"When by your own misuse of the energy of Life,
which this All-Pervading One showers upon you con
stantly, pure, perfect, and uncontaminated, you have
created conditions so destructive and painful that
they can no longer be endured, you turn in either
desperation, agony, or rebellion and call upon God
for relief from your misery. This is your offering to
the 'Giver of all Good' in return for that Ceaseless
Perfection which he continually bestows in Supreme
Love. The only condition, upon which the 'One
Great-Self gives all, is its right use, that it may bless
54 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
the rest of creation with infinite joy, harmonious
activity, and Perfection.
"When in the depths of misery, you turn again to
your Source, for relief from your misdeeds, you
either cry in the agony of despair or, if rebellious,
blame Life and the Source of All Good for allowing,
what you call injustice and wrong conditions to exist
in you and your world.
"It is you, the little personal self, who are unjust
to Life; you who are unfair; you who create the
misery of earth; for only humanity, because it has
free will to create as it chooses, each individual
through his own thought and feeling, dares to bring
into existence the discord, misery, and deformity that
express upon earth. This is a blight upon Creation
and the Perfection that forever swings in the Great
Cosmic Melody of Eternal Song.
"Only mankind is guilty of making a discord in
the music of the spheres, for all else lives and acts in
accordance with the 'Law of Love, of Life, of Har
mony, and of Light.' All else blends into the har
monious whole—the 'Body of the Infinite, All-Loving
One.'
"All other realms of 'Life and Light' move and
create according to the fundamental principle upon
which all Perfection rests. That principle is Love. If
it were not for the 'Great Selfless Ones' like your
ruler— the Great Host of Ascended Masters, whose
THE SAHARA DESERT 55
very keynote of existence is Love, humanity would
long ago have destroyed itself and the very planet
upon which it exists.
"The transcendent and magnificent activities of
Love and Light are the Natural Conditions in which
God created and expected His human children to
manifest, obeying His command 'to Love.' There is
no such thing as a supernatural condition anywhere
in the universe. All that is transcendent, beautiful
and Perfect is Natural and according to the 'Law of
Love.' Anything other than that is sub-natural. The
daily experience of the Host of Ascended Masters is
the Perfection God's children were meant to live in
always. Earth's children did express this Perfection
once in a former cycle, which was one Golden Age.
"That former civilization— that Ancient Perfec
tion—is older tharryou dream, older than you believe
the planet to bej All mankind at that period lived in
a similar transcendent state, as the Ascended Masters.
The condition of misery, that has followed since that
time, down through the ages, came about because
mankind chose to look away from its 'Source'— Love
—as the plan by which to live L1fe/?
"When the children of earth look away from Love,
they are deliberately and consciously choosing the
experience of chaos. Whoever seeks to exist without
Love, cannot survive long anywhere in creation.
Such efforts are bound to bring failure, ixusery, and
56 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
dissolution. Whatever lacks Love must return to
chaos the unformed, so its substance may be used
over again in combination with Love, and thus pro
duce a new and perfect form.
"This is the Law of Universal as well as individual
Life. It is Immutable, Irrevocable, Eternal, yet Be
neficent, for creation in form exists that God may
have something upon which to pour out Love and so
express in action. This is the 'Law of the Mighty
One' from which all else proceeds. It is the 'Mandate
of Eternity' and the vastness and brilliance of that
Perfection cannot be described in words.
"If there were not these actual, real, permanent
and Perfect conditions of Life and experience, which
far transcend human description, existence would be
but a travesty upon the stupendous activity of Life
that swings forever throughout creation. There are
those higher, harmonious, Transcendent Spheres—
realms of activity and consciousness— individual and
cosmic— where creation goes on continually in Joy,
in Love, in Freedom, and in Perfection.
"These are real, real, real and much more per
manent than your bodies and buildings in the phys
ical world about you. These Realms of Life are
created of Substance which is so charged with Love
that they can never have a quality or activity of dis
cord, imperfection, or disintegration imposed upon
them or registered within them. Because they are
THE SAHARA DESERT 57
based upon Love, the Perfection of such a manifesta
tion is forever maintained, ever active, ever expand
ing, ever-blessing with joy all that exists.
"You bring woe upon yourselves which propels
you into embodiment again and again in the igno
rance of the senses, the human appetites, and desires
of the outer-self. These appetites in the feeling
nature of mankind are in themselves but an accu
mulation of energy which the individual, through
his thought and feeling, has given a quality of one
kind or another. This misqualified energy, gathers a
momentum through human expression and becomes
habit. Habit is but energy specifically qualified and
held focused for a time upon one objective.
"The sense appetites of former lives become the
driving forces and habits of the succeeding ones,
keeping you slaves, bound to the chariot wheels of
discord, lack, and necessity, whirling you through a
maze of human problems and experiences of your
own creation, compelling you to learn and obey the
Law of the One—Love.
"Your own miscreations drive you on, and on, and
on, until you are willing to understand Life and obey
Its One Law— hove. You whirl through Life after
Life, experiencing discord upon discord, until you
do learn to live the 'Law of Love.'
"This is a compelling activity which none escape,
and it continues until the outer-self asks the reason
58 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
for its misery, and understands that its release from
the experience of suffering can only come through
obedience to the 'Law of Love.' Such obedience be
gins as calm, peace, and kindliness in the feelings
whose center is in the heart. Its contact with the outer
world must come through the 'Inner Feeling.'
"Love is not an activity of the mind, but is the
'Pure and Luminous Essence' which creates mind.
This Essence from the Great God .Flame streams into
substance, and constantly pours itseJf out, as Perfec
tion in form and action. Love is Perfection manifest.
It can only express peace, joy, and an outpouring of
those feelings to all creation—unconditionally- It asks
nothing for Itself because It is Eternally Self-
Creating, being the Heartbeat of the 'Supreme.'
Love owns All and is only concerned with setting the
Plan of Perfection into action in all. Thus, »t is a
constant pouring out of Itself. It takes no cognizance
of what has been given in the past, but receives
Its
joy and maintains Its balance by the continual lOut-
streaming of Itself. Because this Perfection is wiUhin
Love, forever flowing forth, it is incapable of record
ing anything but Itself. I
" 'Love' alone is the basis of harmony and the ri&ht
use of all Life energy. In human experience, tfyis
grows into a desire to give, and give, and give of ayl
the individual's peace and harmony unto the rest oV
creation. X
THE SAHARA DESERT 59
"People! O People! forever throughout the ages!
only enough Love can bring you back to the Heaven
you once knew and abided in. Here, you will once
again embrace the fulness of the 'Great Light' that
gives all through Love.
"A visiting prince approaches your borders. He
will enter this city seeking the daughter of your
king. You will come under the rule of this prince but
the recognition of your mistake will be futile. Noth
ing can avail, for the royal family will be drawn into
the protection and care of those whose power and
authority are of God, and against whom no human
desire can ever prevail. These are the Great As
cended Masters of Light from the Golden Etheric
City over this land. Here your ruler and his beloved
children will abide for a cycle of time." Turning to
the king he addressed him, saying:
"I bless you my noble, patient Brother! Loving
and selfless has been the service to your people. Deep
and eternal is your devotion to the Supreme One—
the Source of All Creation. The Golden Etheric City
awaits and joyously welcomes you and your children.
"Within Its radiance you shall live serving
through the Rays of Light which are forever stream
ing out from those who dwell therein, until these
your people shall redeem themselves by obedience
to the 'Law of Love.'
"This 'Empire of Light' exists over the land you
6o UNVEILED MYSTERIES
have loved so well. It is composed of Self-luminous,
etheric substance and rests above the physical city
which is your capital. It is real, very real and much
more permanent than any earthly city, for 'Light' is
indestructible and the Golden City is made of
'Light.' Into It, no inharmonious thought or dis
turbing condition of any kind can ever enter.
"I will return in seven days to take you and your
children into the 'City of Light' where we shall watch
the progress of humanity, and draw into the 'Light'
all who will discipline and make themselves ready.
VEncircling the City is an invincible belt of electronic
&f force through which it is impossible for anything un-
invited tojaassTJ
[
When he had finished speaking, he blessed the
royal family, the guests and the empire, and in the
moments of silence that followed, His Light and the
outline of His Body within it grew fainter and
fainter until it disappeared entirely.
A murmur passed through the great banquet hall,
and as all looked toward the king, his head was bowed
in reverent silence. Then he slowly rose and bade his
guests good-night.
On the seventh day, the "Brother from out the
Silence" returned, and enfolding the king and his
children within his own blazing aura, withdrew into
the "Golden Etheric City of Light."
The visiting prince arrived the next day, dis
THE SAHARA DESERT 61
covered the condition of the empire, and the con
sternation that still held sway over its people. He at
once subtly planned to become its ruler. This he
accomplished without opposition. [Two thousand
years later most of that empire had become barren
land, the streams dried up, and desolation stretched
everywhere; all the result of the discord and selfish
ness of mankind and the blight it becomes upon the
growth of plant life in nature. This kingdom had ex
tended the entire width of Africa on east, until it
reached the Himalayan Mountains^
(Th~ere followed a great cataclysm— submerging all
the land. Through that change, an inland sea was
formed where the Sahara Desert now lies! Another
earth change, which took place about twelve thou
sand years ago drained this sea and a part of it later
became the present Sahara Desert. The River Nile,
as it is today, most nearly resembles the beautiful
streams of that long forgotten period!)
Thus ended our observation of those very ancient
scenes. I could hardly believe my senses, I was so
astonished at the way the experiences of the past were
revivified— the pictures projected in all three dimen
sions—and the activity of the people in that remote
age portrayed.
Realizing how surprised and unaccustomed to
such activities I was, Saint Germain promised to take
me to the physical records of that period an<\ Peo"
62 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
pie, and give me physical proof that it was not a
vision conjured up by him.
Glancing around from the log upon which we
were seated, we saw the panther lying near-by fast
asleep. Saint Germain took up the explanation of
several important phases on the application of higher
laws, for the manifesting of one's own inherent do
minion over the things of the sense world. This led
to how he was able to express such youth and Per
fection in a body so old, according to the way human
beings count time.
"Eternal Youth," he explained, "is the Flame of
God abiding in the body of man— the Father's Gift
of Himself to His Creation. Youth and beauty of
both mind and body can only be kept permanently
by those individuals who are strong enough to shut
out discord, and whoever does that can and will ex
press Perfection and maintain it.
"Where Peace, Love, and Light do not abide
within the thoughts and feelings of a human being,
no amount of physical effort can possibly keep the
outer-self expressing youth and beauty. These exist
Eternally within the God Flame which is the Divine
Self of every individual. Whatever discord the outer-
self allows to flash through the thought and feeling is
that instant stamped upon the flesh of the physical
body. Eternal Youth and Beauty are Self-Created
and forever Self-Existent within the Flame of God's
THE SAHARA DESERT 63
Life in every human being. This is God's Plan for
manifesting His Perfection into the world of form
and maintaining it forever.
"Youth, Beauty, and Perfection are attributes of
Love which the God Self is continually pouring forth
into Its Creation. Within each individual is placed
the power and means for maintaining and increasing
that perfect, ever-expanding activity of creation.
"The power of accomplishment is the energy of
the God Self in each human being born into the
world. It is always active every moment in your
mind, body, and world. There is no instant in which
this mighty energy is not flowing through all indi
viduals. You are privileged to qualify it as you please
at the command of your own free will, through con
sciously directed thought and feeling.
"Thought is the only thing in the universe that
can create vibration, and through vibration you
qualify this ever-flowing energy with whatever you
desire to have manifest in your life and world. This
limitless, intelligent, radiant energy is flowing cease
lessly through your nervous system, and is the Eter
nal Life and vitality in the blood stream coursing
through your veins. It is an all-powerful, omni
present, intelligent activity given you by— the Father
—the God Principle of Life—to be consciously di
rected according to your free will. Real Intelligence,
which uses everything constructively— comes only
64 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
from Within the God Principle—the Flame of Life,
and is not merely the activity of the intellect. Real
Intelligence is Wisdom or God Knowledge and this
does not and cannot think wrong thoughts. Wrong
thoughts come only from impressions made upon the
intellect by the world outside of the individual. If
individuals would discriminate between their own
thoughts, that is thoughts from within the God
Flame, and the suggestions thrown off by other
people's intellects and the evidence of the senses
which consider appearances only, they would be able
to avoid all discordant activities and conditions in
the world of experience.
"The Light from within one's own God Flame is
the criterion— the standard of Perfection, by which
all thoughts and feelings that reach us through the
five senses should be tested. No one can keep his
thoughts and feelings qualified with Perfection un
less he goes to the 'Source of Perfection,' for that
quality and activity only abide within the God
Flame.
"This is the individual's need for meditation upon
and communion with the Light of God within him
self. Pure Life Essence will not only give and sustain
Eternal youth and beauty in the body, but will en
able you to maintain perfect balance between your
God Self and the outer- or personal-self. In fact, this
Pure Life Energy is the power which the outer-self
THE SAHARA DESERT 65
uses to hold its connection with its Divine Source—
the God Self. In reality, these two are One except,
when the intellect or outer activity of the mind— the
sense consciousness— accepts imperfection, inhar-
mony, incompleteness or thinks itself a creation apart
from the All-Pervading One 'Presence' of Life. If the
sense consciousness thinks itself something separate
from God—Perfection, then that condition is estab
lished unto it, for what the sense consciousness thinks
into its world, the world returns to it.
"When one lets an idea of imperfection or separa
tion from God occupy his attention, and therefore his
mind, a condition corresponding to that begins to
express itself in his body and world. This causes the
person to feel himself an entity apart from his
Source. The moment he thinks himself separated
from God, he thinks his Life, Intelligence, and
Power has beginning and end.
"Life always has been, is now, and always will be.
No one can really destroy Life. Through various ac
tivities in the mental and physical world, form can
be disintegrated or temporarily demolished but the
consciousness of the individual is Eternal; and can
control all substance everywhere in manifestation
when the God Life within is acknowledged as the
'Knower, Giver, and Doer' of all good in creation.
"I tell you Truth when I say there is only one
Source of all Good— God. The conscious recogn^on
66 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
and acceptance of this Truth, acknowledged by the
outer activity of the mind, not two or three times
a day but every few moments all day long, no matter
what the outer-self is doing, and this maintained will
enable anyone to express his perfect freedom and
dominion over all things human.
"To most people the above sounds difficult for
they have lived so many centuries in the belief that
they are beings apart from God, while every instant
of every day, they are using God-Life, God-Energy,
God-Substance, and God-Activity in everything they
think and do without realizing it. However, it re
quires the conscious admitting of this fact in the
outer activity of the mind, and constructive direc
tion, to release Its Full Power through the personal
self.
"Recognition, conscious direction, and construc
tive use of the God-Energy maintained within one's
self at all times is the way of Perfection, Mastery,
and Dominion over all things on earth, including the
conscious control of all natural forces. The instruc
tion I have been giving you will erase completely all
false beliefs, if maintained. The rapidity with which
it is accomplished depends upon how continuously,
persistently, and deeply you feel and associate with
your God Self.
"In the attainment of Mastery or Adeptship, the
conscious control of all force and manipulation of
THE SAHARA DESERT 67
substance are dependent first, upon the acknowl
edgment of your own individual God Self; second,
upon perfect calmness of feeling, under all circum
stances; and third, one must be above all temptation
of misusing power. The stilling of all emotions at the
command of the conscious will is imperative, and the
demand for it in the Adept is unconditional, if Do
minion is to be attained.
"It does not mean a repression of discord within
one's self at any time, but is a stilling and harmoniz
ing of the feelings, no matter what the circumstances
are which surround the mind or body of the student.
Such control is not an easy thing for humanity in the
Western World because the temperament of most
people in the Occident is sensitive, emotional, and
impulsive. This characteristic is energy of tremen
dous power. It must be controlled, held in reserve,
and released only through conscious direction for the
accomplishment of something constructive. Until
the waste of energy is checked and completely gov
erned, the individual cannot, and never will, make
permanent progress.
"The student often asks, if one reaches a point,
while still on the path of attainment where he rises
above the use of affirmation? When an individual
sincerely uses affirmation, he brings about a full
acceptance of the Truth of whatever he affirms. £ot
its use is but to focus the attention of the outex mind
68 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
so steadily upon the Truth, that he accepts it fully
in his feelings because feeling is the actual God-
Energy released, which manifests the Truth affirmed.
"The continued use of affirmation brings one to
the point where he has such a deep realization of the
Truth in anything he affirms that he is no longer con
scious of it as an affirmation. One uses an affirmation,
mantram, or prayer because he desires something
made manifest. Right desire is the deepest form of
prayer. Thus, by the use of affirmation, the student
raises his outer-self into the full acceptance of its
Truth and generates the feeling by which it becomes
a thing manifest. In this deep acceptance comes the
manifestation for through concentration, the spoken
word begins to cause instantaneous activity."
My gratitude to Saint Germain for all I had re
ceived was too deep for words. He read my thoughts
and feelings as one reads a book, and so we both sat
silent for some few moments, in perfect attunement.
He roused me from my reverie to watch the gorgeous
colors in the western sky—the sunset's afterglow.
I wanted to remain on the mountain all night and
return home in the morning, enjoying the sunrise.
I had no sooner felt the desire, than a beautiful sleep
ing bag lay at my feet. It was unlike anything I have
ever seen. I reached down to examine the unusual
fabric of which it was made, and to my astonishment
found it glowing and warm. I looked up, and Saint
THE SAHARA DESERT 69
Germain smilingly extended to me a crystal cup
filled with golden liquid about the consistency of
honey. Obedient to his slightest wish I drank
it,
and
instantly, a radiant glow passed through my body.
When
I
had finished, the cup disappeared in my
hand.
"O why couldI not keep this lovely creation?"
I
asked in surprise. "Patience! my Son," he answered,
"are not your desires being fulfilled one by one?
Your sleeping bag will remain until daybreak, and
your friend, the panther, will guard you during the
night."
Bowing slightly, and with
a
smile that was gra-
ciousness itself, his body became gradually indistinct
and then disappeared entirely.
I
lay down in the
lovely bag and was soon fast asleep. As the rosy tints
of dawn touched the eastern horizon,
I
awoke, and
the first thought in my mind was concerning the bag,
which
I
had so much enjoyed. With that thought,
it
vanished back into the universal substance from
which
it
had come.
The panther came toward me, and together we
turned our footsteps homeward. After walking for
some distance, the sound of men's voices caught our
ears. The animal sniffed the air, suddenly stopped
directly in front of me, and looked up.
I
reached
down and patting
it,
said:
"Now you may go."
It
bounded away into the
70 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
thickly wooded section of the mountain to the right
of the trail. I continued on my way without further
incident, and at last reached my lodgings shortly
after noon, in a state of mind hard to find words to
describe.
I wanted to think— contemplate—digest— and be
come adjusted to an entirely new set of ideas. The
unusual, yet very real experiences, through which
I had passed within the forty-eight hours just preced
ing, were causing me to reorder my entire world. I
was happy in the extreme and yet, it seemed as if
another universe had manifested itself around me.
There was the same old prosaic world on the outside
that I had always known to be sure, and yet, was it?
Within it all the time had been these wonderful ex
periences—this tremendous power—these marvelous
revelations of freedom and dominion over all mani
festation of which I had been so totally unaware.
I had been surrounded all my life by these seem
ing miracles to which in my previous years I was as
oblivious, as if no such thing existed in creation. I
thought and thought, deeper and deeper than I had
ever contemplated anything before in my whole
existence.
The dinner hour arrived but I was not hungry.
However, to begin the evening meal, I ordered a
glass of milk. It was served and a few moments later
as I tasted it, imagine my astonishment to find that it
THE SAHARA DESERT 71
had become the same creamy liquid Saint Germain
had first given me.
I finished the meal, returned home, and was pre
paring my bath before retiring, when suddenly the
familiar electrical signal thrilled me from head to
foot. Involuntarily, I held out my hand and in a few
seconds a small cake of crystal-like substance formed
in the palm. I somehow knew this was to be put in
my bath, and had no more than dropped the sub
stance into the water, than it immediately bubbled
and sparkled as though alive.
I stepped in, and a tingling sensation thrilled
every cell in my body. I felt charged— with a high
powered electrical current that illumined and
strengthened my whole being. My bath finished, I
lay down, and soon dropped into a dreamless sleep.
CHAPTER III
The Royal Teton
FOUR
days passed without any unusual occur
rence, and I tried to realize fully the deeper
significance of my recent experiences. It was
just growing dark on the evening of the fifth day,
when there was a sound of tapping on the window of
my room. I looked out, and on the window sill stood
a snow-white dove, with a tiny card in its mouth.
I stepped to the window and opened it. The dove
walked in and stood calmly waiting. I took the card
and read the message, which was written in the same
beautiful script as the previous one, but this time in
gold ink on a white card. On it were the words:
"Be at our meeting-place at seven in the morning,"
signed, "Saint Germain."
As soon as I had taken the card, the dove flew to
my shoulder and rubbed its head against my face, as
if conveying a message of love, flew again to the win
dow, and was gone like an arrow. I put the card away
carefully, hoping it would remain, but the next
morning as I looked for it before starting on my hike,
it had been dissolved. The golden card, on which the
first message was written, had lasted into the third
day for I looked at it several times, hoping I could
72
THE ROYAL TETON 73
keep it permanently. When I found it had been re
turned to the universal, my heart sank, so great was
my disappointment.
To make the hike of ten miles and be there at
seven in the morning, I knew would make it neces
sary for me to leave shortly after midnight. I arose
early, and was on my way at three o'clock. By walk
ing rapidly, I reached the forest just at daybreak. I
had not gone far until a plaintive cry came to my
ears. Before realizing
it,
I
answered in the same tone,
so involuntary was my response. There was
a
rush of
something through the timber and my friend, the
panther, bounded toward me, the very embodiment
of joy.
I
patted
it
and together we proceeded on our
way to the meeting place.
Promptly at seven o'clock, Saint Germain stepped
right out of the atmosphere, greeting me with open
arms. Again, he handed me the crystal cup, filled this
time with
a
clear, sparkling liquid.
I
drank
it
and the
taste was not like anything
I
had ever physically ex
perienced before.
It
was almost like the juice of
grape-fruit iced, but sparkling and effervescing. The
moment
I
drank it,
a
sensation like lightning went
through my body, carrying the feeling of its spark
ling activity into every vein.
Saint Germain then gave the panther
a
little
brown cake which
it
quickly devoured. In
a
mo
ment its hair stood straight up— and he remarked:
74 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
"Your friend will never again kill deer."
"For the coming experience and instruction, it
will be necessary to leave your body here on the
mountain side because you have not yet called forth
the Inner Power enough to enable you to take it
where we are going today. The panther will be the
guard for you and as an extra precaution, I will place
the cloak of invisibility around both. We will go to
the Royal Teton.
"Come."
Instantly, I stood out in my finer body, clothed in
a rich garment of self-luminous, golden fabric.
"Observe carefully the material in which you are
clothed," he continued. "The substance composing
the garment you wear has certain, extraordinary
qualities and powers of its own, one of which is to
enable its wearer to lift and transport physical ob
jects. The garment itself possesses pure electronic
energy, and can be used to move objects, the same as
the force one uses through his physical body. This
is a phenomenal activity that the Great Masters of
Light have given permission to be used for the first
time, on this planet."
For the benefit of my readers, I want to state
clearly and unmistakably, that while I was clothed in
a body which did function in four dimensions during
these experiences, yet it gave me the ability to feel
and handle solid objects in the physical world, the
THE ROYAL TETON 75
same as everyone can do in his own physical body.
The body I used this time was not that which is some
times called the astral body.
We soon reached the top of a majestic mountain
that stands sentinel over one of the most beautiful
scenic belts in the United States. Vast forests lay be
neath us, and great ranges of mountains, with their
treasures of mineral wealth still untouched, stretched
as far as the eye could see.
Going to a point where huge masses of stone lay
in confusion, as if giants had hurled them in a war
upon each other, Saint Germain touched a great
boulder. Instantly, the enormous mass tipped out
perhaps four feet away from its original position. He
motioned me to follow. We entered and, to my aston
ishment, stood before a large bronze door.
"This has been here since before the sinking of
Atlantis, more than twelve thousand years ago," he
explained.
He stepped forward and pressed certain points on
the door. The great mass of bronze weighing many
tons swung slowly open, and admitted us into a spa
cious chamber from which a stairway, cut in the solid
rock, led downward. We descended some two hun
dred feet, and entered another space, circular in
shape. Saint Germain stepped across the room to a
door opposite the stairs, and placed his right hand
against it. As it opened, we stood before the entrance
76 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
of a tube elevator. The interior looked like frosted
silver and in answer to my thought, he said:
"Yes, but harder and stronger than steel and in
destructible." A flat disc of the same metal, fitting the
tube quite closely, rose within it to the level of the
floor. The platform was controlled and operated
entirely by the Master. He stepped upon
it,
and
I
followed. The door closed, and we began to descend.
It
was
a
long way down, although we did not move
rapidly. The platform came to
a
stop at another
bronze door of entirely different design.
"We have descended two thousand feet into the
very heart of the mountain," he commented, as we
stepped out of the tube.
The space in which we stood was of peculiar design
and arrangement.
It
formed an oblong from east to
west whose northeast and northwest corners had
been cut on an angle. This formed an outer court or
reception room. The heavy bronze door from the
tube elevator opened into the court on the northeast
wall.
In the north side were two other large bronze
doors exactly alike, entering into
a
great audience
hall. On the northwest wall was still another,
a
fourth
door, like the one through which we had come.
Opposite on the long unbroken stretch of the south
wall, hung an immense tapestry.
It was made of most unusual material and, while
THE ROYAL TETON 77
the weave was coarse, yet the thread or fiber was as
soft as camel's hair. The background was of a delicate
cream color and against this were two life-sized fig
ures representing God Beings of Great Majesty and
Power. The one on the right was masculine, the
other feminine. Both were standing as if in the act of
commanding Cosmic Forces to obey their decrees.
The masculine figure wore a full-flowing robe of
some rich material, of a deep sapphire blue, banded
and heavily embroidered in gold. It was evidently a
robe of state or symbol of authority. Under the outer
robe, was a tunic of golden fabric, metal-like in ap
pearance. A sunburst of rubies, diamonds, sapphires,
and emeralds covered the chest. The waist was en
circled by a jeweled belt, and from it hung a panel
about twelve inches long. It too was heavily encrusted
with the same kinds of jewels. The tunic reached to
the knees, and the lower edge was trimmed with a
band about four inches wide of heavy embroidery,
in silk of the same color as the jewels.
The entire effect gave one the impression that the
garments were all self-luminous. The feet were clad
in sandal-like boots of golden leather reaching almost
to the knees, very ornate and laced with sapphire-
blue cords. A band of gold about an inch and a half
wide rested halfway down upon the forehead, bind
ing the figure's wavy golden hair which hung to
about six inches below the shoulders.
78 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
The complexion was very fair with a soft pink tint,
and the eyes were a deep violet blue. The fingers of
the left hand rested lightly over the heart, and the
upraised right hand held a blazing crystal rod of
power and authority. The lower end was shaped to
a point, and on the top rested a sphere, about three
inches in diameter that gave off rays of sparkling
White Light.
One knew unmistakably that the figure portrayed
was in the act of wielding gigantic power and was a
manipulator of some Mighty Cosmic Force. The
entire appearance suggested fullest youth and yet the
wisdom of the ages spoke through the eyes of a hoary
past.
The feminine figure's robe of authority was a deep
violet, banded with golden embroidery similar to
that of her companion. The underdress was a soft,
golden, shimmering material that came almost to the
floor. The thread used in weaving the tapestry to rep
resent the garments must have been the same which
had actually composed the material in the original
clothing. This Being wore a jeweled girdle with its
panel reaching about two inches below the knees,
and encrusted with the same kinds of jewels as those
of the masculine figure.
The toe of her right sandal was just visible beneath
the edge of the dress and was made of golden leather.
Her head-dress was a plain band of gold exactly like
THE ROYAL TETON 79
his and the eyes were the same violet blue but lighter
in shade, her golden hair falling to the knees.
On the chest suspended from a golden chain, hung
a large seven-pointed star, cut from a single diamond.
In her left hand she held a crystal sphere about six
inches in diameter and in her right, uplifted like
that of the other figure, was a scepter of most strange
design. About two thirds of the lower portion was
made of gold, terminating in a spear-shaped point,
the upper third composed of a crystal-like substance
radiantly luminous. This formed into a design at the
top, similar to a fleur de lis, except that the middle
point was much longer, and tapered to a slender apex
formed by its four facets.
The curved leaf on the right of the central portion
was a beautiful pink, and that on the left a deep
sapphire-blue, but the middle one was crystal-white.
All were transparent and glowed with Light. The
gold and crystal-like portions blended with each
other perfectly for there was no line of demarcation
between the two substances. Her scepter symbolized
the Three Activities of the Creative Force.
The crystal ball in her left hand revealed the un-
manifested Perfection of the future in Cosmic Activ
ity. Both scepters represented the drawing and
directing of the Creative Power, into universal sub
stance for special manifestation. They were radiant
and beautiful even in the tapestry, and I could but
8o UNVEILED MYSTERIES
wonder what they must have been in reality. Saint
Germain stood patiently waiting while I studied the
whole concept, so fascinated was I by the mag
nificence of the entire work.
"These two Great Beings were the founders of this
retreat," he remarked, as we turned and passed
through the bronze door on our right, and entered a
large room which one realized instantly was used as
a great council hall for some kind of sacred, cere
monial purpose.
The whole atmosphere was one of magnificence
and beauty. Words utterly fail to convey that which
my eyes beheld and my feelings experienced. It took
me some moments to become accustomed to the
dazzling sight and the splendor of my surroundings.
This room was at least two hundred feet long and
a hundred feet wide, with a ceiling about fifty feet
high. A soft white light, which Saint Germain ex
plained was an omnipresent force that the Great
Ones always use for light, heat and power, flooded
the entire place. About twenty feet of the side-walls
and far end of the room were formed in white onyx.
Where this formation ended, the builders had cut
through a great vein of virgin gold more than two
feet in width.
The main stretch of both side-walls was of a light,
blue granite but near the end from which we en
tered, the natural structure changed into rose granite
THE ROYAL TETON 81
of a still finer quality. The surface of the walls,
ceiling and floor had been highly polished, evidently
by some remarkable process.
The arched ceiling rising some ten feet higher
than the side-walls, was inlaid with a most unique
design. Directly in the center was a disc of gold at
least twelve feet in diameter. Filling
it,
so that the
points touched the circumference, blazed
a
seven-
pointed star composed entirely of yellow diamonds—
a
solid mass of brilliant, golden Light.
Radiating from this Central Sun were two rings of
color, each about twelve inches wide, forming
a
def
inite band of Light around the star, and of these the
inner band was rose pink and the outer an intense
violet. The background, against which this star lay,
looked like golden frost, the star itself sending down
long rays of gleaming, crystal Light.
Around this design were placed seven smaller
discs, each about two feet in diameter representing
the planets of our system, and the seven rays of color
within the spectrum of white Light. The surface of
every disc was velvet-like in its softness and only the
clearest, most intense, positive shade of each color
had been used.
As
I
learned later, at certain times for special pur
poses, Great Cosmic Beings pour through these discs
Their powerful currents of force. Here
it
is
received
by the Great Illumined and unselfish Ones, known
8s> UNVEILED MYSTERIES
as the Ascended Masters of Light, who again send it
forth to the humanity of our earth. This radiation
affects the seven ganglionic centers within every
human body on our planet, as well as all animal and
plant life. The background of the entire ceiling was
the color of a very clear sky on a brilliant moonlight
night, yet the surface was highly refractive.
In the center at the far end of the hall about thirty-
five feet from the floor in the wall itself, was a large
eye at least two feet across. This represented the "All-
Seeing-Eye of the Creator," forever watching over
His Creation and from Whom nothing can be hid
den.
A tremendous power was focused through this eye
at certain times for the accomplishment of specific
results. I could but wonder, as I contemplated
it,
what my sensations would be were
I
to see That
Power in full operation.
Perhaps forty feet from the far end on the east
wall, stretching about seventy feet in length and
thirty feet in height was
a
panel of some precipitated
material. It had been placed
a
little more than five
feet above the floor level, and sunken into the side-
wall for
a
depth of two inches, making
a
concave sur
face around the entire edge.
The substance composing
it
looked like beautiful
velvet of
a
deep indigo blue, yet
it
was not
a
fabric of
any kind. The nearest physical material to which one
THE ROYAL TETON 83
could compare it would be that of a mineral. This
substance is not in use in the outer world of mankind
anywhere but it can be and is, sometimes precip
itated, by the Great Ascended Masters of Light for
a special purpose.
Saint Germain explained that the panel had been
precipitated and served as a universal mirror for the
instruction of Initiates and Inner members of a
group of Highly Evolved Beings. These Great Ones
work ceaselessly helping the humanity of our earth
to become Perfected men and women, and enable
them to manifest in their outer lives the same great
Perfection and Dominion as did Jesus Christ.
There is no outer organization of these Perfected
Beings. Only by living and expressing this Perfec
tion, through self-correction of human weaknesses
and full adoration to the Divine Being Within, can
an individual draw himself into association with
Those working at this high level of attainment.
"Upon this panel," said Saint Germain, "are pro
jected scenes of earth, pictures in the ethers— the
akashic records and activities taking place on Venus
or at any other point, which those instructing wish
to make visible to the students. Such scenes are not
only pictures of the past and present but can portray
activities into the far future. These you shall see
later."
We passed through the last door on our right, and
84 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
entered a room whose dimensions were about eighty
feet long, forty wide and twenty high, with an arched
ceiling, similar to that in the large hall from which
we had just come.
"The entire interior surface of this room is made
of frosted gold and the purple and green veining,
you see on the walls as if embossed, is precipitated,"
he continued.
At the far end and on the side-wall to our right,
reaching from floor to ceiling, was a framework made
of white metal that looked like frosted silver. In this
framework resting upon roller bearings, were con
tainers made of the same metal. The lids of these
containers gave classifications in hieroglyphics of the
contents on the four spindles within each, the hiero
glyphics being embossed upon every lid.
The spindles were at least ten inches long and
around every one had been wound a ribbon, about
eight inches wide made of pressed gold, alloyed with
some material that made it tough and pliable, and yet
no thicker than a piece of ordinary writing paper.
The length of the ribbons of gold on the spindles
varied from seven to fifty feet, and on each were char
acters as if etched into the gold by something like a
stylus. These characters had been so perfectly done
as to make the whole appear like script.
"These records are the fulfilling of my promise to
you," said Saint Germain, as he indicated a particular
THE ROYAL TETON 85
section at the far end of the side-wall. "They de
scribe the city, country, and civilization which once
existed where the Sahara Desert is now, during the
time in which you were my son and I the ruler of
that ancient empire. This room contains records of
many countries and the rise and fall of many civiliza
tions." Handing me one of the spindles, he released
the fastening and I found to my astonishment, that I
could read its contents.
"I am enabling you to do this," he continued, "by
temporarily raising your consciousness and calling
forth the hidden memory— the former record of these
experiences which you once lived through. The mat
ter of knowing God and His Universe is but a con
tacting of the Life-record in every form. All forms
contain Life, and within the Light emanation of every
form is recorded its entire past which any one may
train himself to discover and understand, if he be
willing to give his attention and time to the self-
discipline necessary to still the confusion in the outer
activity of his every-day existence. This eternal rec
ord within all things has existed from the beginning.
"In ages past, humanity manifested Perfection in
every way. This former condition of the race has been
chronicled by historians as the Garden of Eden—
Eden or E-Don— meaning Divine Wisdom. As the
conscious attention or the outer activity of the mind
was allowed to rest upon the world of the physical
86 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
senses, the 'Divine Wisdom'— the All-Knowing activ
ity of consciousness— became clouded or covered over
and the 'Cosmic Divine Plan' of the individual's life
became submerged. Perfection and conscious control
by mankind over all form was hidden and forgotten
along with it.
"Man became sense-conscious, instead of God-
conscious, and so manifested that to which his atten
tion was directed and which he thought most upon.
He deliberately and consciously turned his back upon
the Perfection and Dominion with which the Father
endowed him in the beginning. He created his own
experiences of lack, limitation, and discord of every
kind. He identified himself with the part instead of
the whole, and of course imperfection was the result.
"All mankind's limitation is the result of the in
dividual's own misuse of the God-attribute of free
will. He compels himself to live within his own crea
tions until, by the direct volition of the outer activity
of his mind, he again consciously looks back to his
Royal beginning— God, the Great Source of All.
When this occurs, man will begin to remember That
which he once was, and may become again— whenso
ever he chooses to look once more at the 'Great, Cos
mic, Blueprint'—of Himself.
"The record, you have been enabled to read, de
scribed the Life and people as we saw it taking place
seventy thousand years ago. You had much to do with
THE ROYAL TETON 87
the work of making these records in several lives
which have not yet been revealed."
We crossed the council hall entering the opposite
door, and found a room similar in size to the one
we had just left, with two smaller rooms adjoining
it on the north wall. In the larger room, covering
almost the entire wall surface, was more metal frame
work filled with containers quite like those in the
other room.
"These rooms," he continued, "contain only gold
and jewels that are to be used for a special purpose
which will bless the entire world, when mankind has
transcended its unbridled selfishness." Here, he drew
forth a container filled with gold coin, and went on
explaining. "This is Spanish Gold lost at sea and we,
seeing it would not be recovered by other means,
brought it here through the activity of certain forces
which we govern. Later, in a time that is rapidly ap
proaching, it will again be sent forth for use in the
outer world.
"In these containers," indicating another section,
"gold is stored from the lost continents of Mu and
Atlantis, the ancient civilizations of the Gobi and
Sahara Deserts, Egypt, Chaldea, Babylonia, Greece,
Rome, and others. If all this gold were to be released
into the outer activity of the world, it would compel
sudden re-adjustment in every phase of human ex
perience. At present, it would not be the part of
88 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
wisdom. The Infinite Wisdom and Power of those
Great Cosmic Masters, who have been the Guardians
of the race since its first appearance upon earth, is
almost beyond the comprehension of the human
mind.
"No one in this world ever accumulated a great
amount of wealth, without the assistance and radia
tion of some Ascended Master. There are occasions
in which individuals can be used as a focus of great
wealth for a specific purpose, and at such times,
greatly added power is radiated to them, for through
it they can receive personal assistance. Such an ex
perience is a test and opportunity to expand their
Light. All unusual accomplishment, that takes place
in human activity, no matter what the particular
channel may be, is always attained through the as
sistance of superhuman Love, Wisdom, and Power
from an Ascended Master, because he has trans
cended all limitations of the physical world and for
this reason, more than ordinary success is due to His
greater power through radiation.
"In 1887, the Ascended Host of Masters established
a school on the Inner planes for the specific purpose
of instructing those who have misused wealth, and re
vealing fully the results of their mistakes. Such as
these are taken and told the Truth concerning the
Universal Law governing all wealth, and the results
that come from influencing others to perpetuate their
THE ROYAL TETON 89
wrong ideas and mistakes. They are given complete
freedom to accept or reject the proof offered. They
always accept and abide by the instruction given."
We next entered the two smaller rooms which were
also equipped with the same kind of containers only
not as large. These were filled with jewels of all kinds
—diamonds, rubies, pearls, emeralds and sapphires
classified as to variety and quantity. Smilingly, he
turned to me and said:
"Now, you know and understand that the Great
God Self is the only Real Owner and Controller of all
wealth. That 'Presence' appoints keepers of His
treasures on every plane of Life, whether it be Light,
Wisdom, Substance or physical riches. You are calm
and poised, I see, while we are observing this phase
of our activity and that is well. It reveals your Inner
strength and ability to do what is now ready to be
accomplished, as soon as you are prepared outwardly.
This will soon come about I assure you.
"You have been shown proof that it is we who
really govern the wealth of the world, and use it but
as a test of the soul strength of the individual. It is
always a trust— given to those, who should be strong
enough to use it only constructively, but few, very
few, really pass that test under the temptation exist
ing in the world at large today. If we choose, we can
raise the humblest of God's children who have
sufficient preparation, into wealth, power, and promi
go UNVEILED MYSTERIES
nence, if by so doing, help can be given to many
others, through such accomplishment."
After examining other containers filled with more
jewels, we turned and re-entered the council hall.
Looking toward the entrance through which we had
first come, I saw my loved ones— Lotus and our son—
in charge of one of the Ascended Masters, whom Saint
Germain said was known as Amen Bey. After greet
ings had been exchanged, we were conducted to seats
before the panel on the east wall. In groups of from
three to twelve came the blessed ones of the Ascended
Host until seventy of them were seated.
A great hush fell upon all assembled, and for a few
moments the silence was breathless, expectant. A ball
of soft White Light began to form in front of the
panel, increasing rapidly in size and brilliance, until
it became an oval at least seven feet in height. As
though born from within the Light itself, stepped
a most Glorious Being—tall, majestic, and powerful.
He made the sign uniting the finite with the Infinite,
and in a voice, that thrilled every atom of mind and
body, asked if all were ready.
A blazing Light flashed forth from the substance
that composed the panel, until it looked like a mirror
of Living Light. In a moment, this changed into a
crystal clear atmosphere and it then became a cosmic
screen, upon which living pictures in all dimensions
could be portrayed, with no limit to the space that
THE ROYAL TETON 91
could be observed. It was self-evident that everything
which had or ever could take place in all Eternity
might be made visible on this screen, if the Directing
Intelligence so desired.
The first scenes portrayed the continent of "Mu,"
the activity and accomplishment of its people, and
the height to which that civilization attained. This
covered a period of thousands of years. Then came
events that surely must have been a reign of terror
to the inhabitants of that land. A cataclysm occurred
which tore the surface of the earth until all collapsed
within itself. The ancient land of Mu sank beneath
the waves of what is now the Pacific Ocean where it
still rests wrapped in its mantle of water. Again, it
will rise and once more absorb the Life and Light of
the physical sun.
Next, came the growth to beauty, wisdom, and
power of Atlantis, a great continent covering a large
part of what is now the Atlantic Ocean. At that time,
there existed solid land between Central America and
what today is Europe. The things accomplished in
that age were tremendous but again the people's
misuse of the Mighty God-Energy overwhelmed
them and, as things were thrown more and more out
of balance, the tearing apart of the earth's surface by
cataclysmic action was re-experienced.
It left but a small remnant of Atlantis, merely an
island in mid-ocean cut off from close contact with
92 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
the rest of the civilized world. The east and west por
tions of the land had sunk beneath the Atlantic
Ocean, leaving only the island called Poseidonis. It
had been the heart of the then known civilized world,
and preparation was made to protect and preserve its
most important activities as a central focus, to carry
forward certain unfinished work. In that period, very
great attainment was reached both spiritually and
materially.
The mechanical development of this cycle reached
a very high state of achievement, and one of its most
remarkable expressions was the perfection of their
aerial navigation. The air-transportation of our mod
ern life is as yet very crude and primitive, compared
to what was then on Atlantis. The Great Masters of
Light and Wisdom made this possible for the people
of Poseidonis because they inspired, instructed, pro
tected, and revealed knowledge of great advance
ment, in every phase of human activity.
A large portion of these people became aware of
the Great Inner God-Power within the individual,
but as before the human side of their nature or outer
activities again usurped the Great Energy. Selfishness
and misuse of this transcendent wisdom and power
gained the ascendency, to even greater height than
before. The Masters of the Ancient Wisdom saw the
people were building another destructive momentum
and that a third cataclysm was threatening. They
THE ROYAL TETON 93
warned the inhabitants again and again as previously,
but only those who served the "Light" gave heed.
Great buildings were constructed of imperishable
material where records were placed that have been
preserved through the centuries. These remain in a
state of perfect preservation now on the bed of the
Atlantic Ocean— hermetically sealed. They will be
brought to the light of day by the Great Ones who
directed their preparation, and control their protec
tion.
In them are recorded humanity's advance and ac
complishment of that period, so there has been no
permanent loss to mankind of the activities of the
Atlantean civilization. Beside the preserving of such
records, great wealth, principally gold and jewels,
was transferred at that time to other points of safety.
This has been and will continue to be guarded over
the centuries, and used at a future time for the up
lift and advancement of generations yet unborn.
The final cataclysm spent its momentum, and the
last remaining fragment of a once world-empire sank
to rest, for purification through the centuries, beneath
the present Atlantic Ocean. The remembrance of
Atlantis and her people, unlike the lost continent
of Mu, has not been entirely forgotten or obliterated
in the history of mankind, for it has been recorded
in many ways through the centuries. Even though
twelve thousand years have elapsed since the sinking,
94 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
fragments of information concerning it still drift to
us from most unexpected channels. Myths and
legends abound in reference to Atlantis and these are
two avenues which preserve to mankind certain
actual conditions that have been upon the earth— in
one age or another. As time goes on, indisputable
proof of its existence and the height of its attainment
will be revealed by oceanography, geology, and other
scientific data.
Then passed before our vision the ancient civiliza
tions of the Gobi and Sahara Deserts, showing the
rise and fall of their principal activities. The decline
in each of these was due this time, not to cataclysmic
action but to being overrun by hordes of primitive
souls, taking embodiment in that cycle.
Next came pictures of Egypt, her rise and fall, the
latter being due to the deliberate misuse of knowledge
and power by a large number of the humanity em
bodied in that land, whose predominant qualities
were pride of their intellectual accomplishments and
rebellion against the restraint of their lower nature.
These always mean failure individually or enmasse.
Egypt rose to her greatest height by the right use
of knowledge and power. These always demand hu
mility, obedience of the intellect to the God Self
Within, absolute and unconditional control of the
human or lower nature, in those who seek such gifts,
if they are to avoid destruction. The souls embodied
THE ROYAL TETON 95
in Egypt during her decline were not undeveloped,
as were those in the civilizations of the Gobi and
Sahara Deserts. On the contrary, they had attained
the conscious use of knowledge and power, and de
liberately chose to misuse it. This activity has noth
ing whatsoever to do with Wisdom for those, who are
the Eternal Inheritors of the gifts from that Divine
Goddess, must forever be above all temptation to
misuse knowledge and power. Wisdom is the right
use of all that manifests, and he, who realizes this self-
evident, Immutable Truth becomes an open door to
all good that abides in creation.
The reference to Egypt as a land of darkness is
most unjust for out of Egypt in her earlier cycle,
came very great Light, and out of Egypt will again
come— very great Light.
The next scene portrayed the rise and fall of the
Roman Empire. When the darkness and degradation
of those centuries had reached their lowest point, lo!
Jesus appeared, pouring out His Blazing Light and
Love as the Christ, and through His Transfiguration,
Resurrection, and Ascension such an overwhelming
flood of God's Perfection spread over the earth that
never again can so vast a darkness encompass human
ity in any age. The accomplishment of His Life stands
eternally recorded upon the atmosphere of this
planet, and acts as a magnet drawing mankind unto
a Like Perfection,
96 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
The coming of Jesus was an initiation to the people
of our world and a Cosmic Command to use the
Power of Divine Love in all their future activities.
This outpouring of His Love to the earth at its dark
est cycle— became the birth of the Christ Child in the
individual. He called forth once again the Cosmic,
Divine Blueprint, and revealed the Decree for the
incoming age. That plan is Complete Dominion over
all things finite, through the Full Stature of the
Christ within every human being.
Next, came the reign of Richard the Lion Heart of
England. Humanity has little or no knowledge of
the real, spiritual activity that took place during those
years. The same Light that inspired Richard's en
thusiasm and activities in the crusades, released,
through his followers and the people of that time,
certain forces that the Ascended Host used at Inner
levels of consciousness.
Then, came pictures of the recent world war in
Europe and these disclosed the activities that gen
erated it. Only a few individuals know the real cause,
and no doubt it is for the best more do not. It is too
destructive for the consciousness to contemplate.
Nothing can possibly be gained by focusing the at
tention upon war. This, too, perhaps was the reason
why the period from Richard to the world war was
not portrayed. Here, the activities of the Ascended
Host were revealed, and we saw them dissolve the
THE ROYAL TETON 97
cause and greater part of the accumulated momen
tum of the world's recent conflict.
They accomplished it by consciously focusing and
directing enormous Rays of Light, whose power to
consume and transmute is too stupendous for finite
description. These Perfected Ones have been watch
ing for the Cosmic Moment to arrive when they
might perform for humanity a Service of Love, that
has been long awaited and of which mankind has as
yet little or no comprehension.
These remarkable pictures continued and revealed
activities stretching forth into the far future, and
affecting the whole earth. They showed many changes
to come in the surface of the land itself. One of the
most important of these concerned the progress of
North America. The Divine Plan for the future of
North America is a condition of intense activity in
the greatest peace, beauty, success, prosperity,
spiritual illumination, and dominion. She is to carry
the Christ Light and "Be" the Guide for the rest of
the earth, because America is to be the heart center
of the "Golden Age" that is now dimly touching our
horizon. The greater portion of the land of North
America will stand for a very long time. This has
been known for thousands of years, yes! for over two
hundred thousand.
The pictures continued for nearly three hours
portraying many scenes and activities that have en
98 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
tirely escaped the recording of historians and the
world of science, because of their great antiquity.
Wonderful and beautiful as our moving pictures are
today, they are mere toys when compared with the
living, breathing, actual existence revealed upon this
cosmic screen. Here, it was possible to watch the
Cosmic Cause go forth, of many events and conditions
found upon earth, so that those watching received
instruction of most extraordinary magnitude. This
Inner instruction is of great help to students.
At the close of the instruction, Saint Germain pre
sented us to the Great Ascended Master, Lanto, who
had manifested from within the Blazing Light, and
then to the seventy Masters assembled.
"We shall rejoice indeed," said Lanto, turning
toward us, "when you are again ready to join in the
conscious service of the glorious work at hand. This
opportunity comes to you through the mighty
victories you have won over the human self and outer
world. The time is nearing, when you shall be
privileged to see how truly great those victories are.
Each day accept in its Fulness, the Mighty Active
'Presence' of the Great God within you and there can
exist no such thing as failure anywhere along the
path. Everyone, who sincerely seeks the 'Light' is al
ways known to the Ascended Masters. On New Year's
eve, we will meet here again when there will be
twelve guests from Venus. It is our wish that you be
THE ROYAL TETON 99
present. Saint Germain and Amen Bey will be your
sponsors."
At a signal, all became silent and received Lanto's
blessing of love before returning to their respective
fields of service. Most of them simply disappeared
from the room within a few moments, and the rest
left by the way of the tube.
"My children, I see you are unaware of time. It
is now three o'clock in the morning," remarked
Saint Germain, as he turned to say, good-by, to Lotus
and our son who, after embracing me, left by way of
the outer reception room as we passed through the
first door on the right. "There is one thing more," he
continued, "I want you to see before we go.
"Here is a group of most unusual musical instru
ments that are used for a special purpose, being con
structed or created so as to have a tone of special
quality for the work we do." Here, he turned to an
organ key-board, and went on explaining.
"This seems to be a pipeless organ but the pipes,
which are much smaller than ordinary, are placed
within the case. The tone of the whole instrument is
superior to anything the earth has ever known before
in music. These organs will come into use in the
outer world as the incoming Golden Age moves for
ward."
Next, we examined four magnificent harps, slightly
larger than those in ordinary use in the musical world
1oo UNVEILED MYSTERIES
today. Saint Germain seated himself at one of these
and played several chords to give me some idea of
their tone. It was the most wonderful music, I have
ever heard.
"This harp is a surprise for our Beloved Lotus,"
he said, "for on New Year's eve in this Retreat, you
shall hear the organ and four harps played by skilled
artists." We finished the inspection of the room, and
left through the door on the northwest wall.
Instead of passing out of the Retreat, as we had
come in, Saint Germain opened a small door on the
left, and entered a glistening tunnel whose walls
sparkled with a crystal-like formation, which became
instantly illumined by the White Light that he al
ways released by manipulating the electronic sub
stance about him. We walked rapidly forward in the
tunnel, came to a bronze door that opened at his
touch, and stood again under the starlit sky.
We remained in perfect silence for an instant, then
rising to some five hundred feet above the ground
level, passed swiftly through the air and a few
moments later stood beside my physical body on the
southern slope of Mount Shasta where the panther
still guarded. I had been away twenty-two hours and
as I looked up, dawn was just creeping over the east
ern horizon.
"Here is your breakfast," announced Saint Ger
main, as he handed me the Crystal Cup containing a
THE ROYAL TETON 101
clear, white, sparkling liquid. "This is both strength
ening and refreshing, so you will enjoy hiking home—
because your body needs the exertion and activity.
I sense something in your mind which is not at ease
or at least is not clear to your consciousness."
"Yes," I replied. "I have a question that has been
holding my attention for some time, and it is con
cerning visualization. What is true visualization and
what happens, when one does visualize?"
"True visualization," he answered, "is God's at
tribute and Power of Sight, acting in the mind of
man. When one consciously pictures in his mind a
desire he wishes fulfilled, he is using one of the most
powerful means of bringing it into his visible,
tangible experience. There is much confusion and
uncertainty in the minds of many, concerning what
actually happens, when one visualizes or makes a
mental picture of something he desires. No form ever
came into existence anywhere in the universe, unless
some one had consciously held a picture of that form
in his thought, for every thought contains a picture
of the idea within it. Even an abstract thought has a
picture of some kind, or at least a picture that is one's
mental concept of it.
"I will give you an exercise by which one may de
velop, consciously control, and direct his visualizing
activities for definite accomplishment. There are
several steps to the process which every student can
1o2 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
use at any and all times. The practice does bring
visible, tangible results, when really applied. The
first step is to determine upon a definite plan or
desire to be fulfilled. In this, see that it is construc
tive, honorable, and worthy of your time and effort.
Be sure to examine your motive for bringing such a
creation into expression. It must be honest, both to
ward yourself and the rest of the world, not merely
to follow a whim or gratify appetites of the physical
senses. Remember there is a vast difference between
use, desire, and appetite. Use is the fulfilling of the
Great Universal Law of Service. Desire is the ex
panding activity of God through which manifestation
is constantly sustained and is Perfection enlarging
itself. Appetite is but habit established by the con
tinued gratification of the feeling nature, and is but
energy, focused and qualified by suggestions from the
outer activity of life.
"Be very sure that there is no lurking feeling
within, that you would be glad to benefit at the ex
pense of another. A real student, and only such a one
will get the benefit out of this kind of training, takes
the reins into his own hands and determines to dis
cipline and consciously control the human self. He
chooses what shall or shall not be in his world and,
through the process of picturing within his mind,
designs and brings into manifestation a definitely de
termined plan of life.
THE ROYAL TETON 103
"The second step is to state your plan in words as
concisely and clearly as possible. Write this down.
Thus, you make a record of your desire in the outer,
visible, tangible world. The third step is to close the
eyes and see within your mind a mental picture of
your desire or plan in its finished, perfect condition
and activity.
"Contemplate the fact that your ability to create
and see a picture within your own consciousness is
God's attribute of sight, acting in you. The activity
of seeing and the power to create are attributes of
your God Self, which you know and feel is within you
at all times. God's Life and Power are acting within
your consciousness to propel into your outer world,
the picture you are seeing and feeling within your
self.
"Keep reminding the intellect that the ability to
picture is an attribute of God— the attribute of sight.
The power to feel, experience, and associate with the
perfected picture is God's power. The substance used
in the world without, to make the form in your pic
ture and plan, is God's pure substance. Then you
must know, God is the Doer, the Doing, and the
Deed of every constructive form and action that ever
has been sent forth into the world of manifestation.
When you thus use all the constructive processes, it
is impossible for your plan not to come into your
visible world.
io4 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
"Read your desire or plan over, as many t1mes in
the day as possible and always just before retiring,
because on going to sleep, immediately after con
templating the picture in your own mind a full im
pression is left upon the human consciousness un
disturbed for a number of hours enabling it to be
recorded deeply in the outer activity, and allowing
the force to be generated and accumulated, which
propels it into the outer experience Life. In this way,
you can carry any desire or picture into your con
sciousness, as it enters the Great Silence in sleep.
There it becomes charged by God's Greatest Power
and Activity which is always within the Heart of the
Great Silence.
"Under no circumstances discuss either your de
sire or the fact that you are visualizing with anyone
whatsoever. This is imperative. Do not talk to your
self about it out loud, or even in a whisper for you
should realize that the greater the accumulation of
energy generated by your visualization, contempla
tion, and feeling the reality of your picture, the
quicker it will come into your outer experience.
"Thousands of desires, ambitions, or ideals would
have manifested into the outer experience of indi
viduals, if they had not discussed them with friends
or acquaintances. When you decide to definitely
bring about an experience, through consciously di
rected visualization, you become The Law— God— the
THE ROYAL TETON 105
Law of the 'One,' to whom there is no opposite. You
must make your own decision and stand back of your
own decree with all your power. It means you must
take an unshakable, determined stand. To do so,
know and feel that it is God desiring, God feeling,
God knowing, God manifesting and God controlling
everything concerning it. This is the Law of the 'One'
—God— and God only. Until this is fully understood,
you cannot and never will get your manifestation, for
the moment a human element enters, you are taking
it out of God's hands and of course it cannot express
because you are neutralizing it by the human quali
ties of time, space, place and a thousand and one
other imaginary conditions, which God does not
recognize.
"No one can ever know God, as long as he con
siders a force opposed to God, for whenever he
acknowledges that two forces can act, he has a re
sultant quality of neutralizing activity. When you
have neutralization, you have no definite quality
either way. You merely have nothing or no thing in
your manifestation. When you acknowledge God—
The One—you have only Perfection manifesting in
stantly—for there is nothing to oppose or neutralize
it—no element of time. So is it established unto you,
for there is none to oppose what God decrees.
"Conditions can never improve for anyone until
he desires Perfection and stops acknowledging a
1o6 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
power opposed to God, or that there is something
either in or outside of him that can prevent God's
Perfection from expressing. One's very acknowledg
ment of a condition, that is less than all of God, is his
deliberate choice of an imperfection and that kind
of choice is the fall of man. This is deliberate and
intentional, because he is free every moment to think
whatsoever he chooses to think. Incidentally, it takes
no more energy to think a thought or picture of Per
fection, than it does one of imperfection.
"You are The Creator localized to design and
create Perfection in your world and place in the
Universe. If Perfection and Dominion are to be ex
pressed, you must know and acknowledge only The
Law of 'The One.' The One exists and controls com
pletely everywhere in the Universe. You are the Self-
Consciousness of Life, The One Supreme 'Presence'
of the Great Flame of Love and Light. You alone are
the Chooser, the Decreer of the qualities and forms
you wish to pour your Life into, for you are the only
energizer of your world and all it contains. When you
think or feel, part of your Life energy goes forth to
sustain your creation.
"Cast out of mind then, all doubt or fear of the
fulfillment of that which you are picturing. Should
any such thoughts or feelings— which are after all but
human emanations— that do not contain perfection,
come to your consciousness, instantly replace them by
THE ROYAL TETON 107
the full acknowledgment of your Self and world as
the Life of God— 'The One.' Further than that, be
completely unconcerned about it, except during the
time you are visualizing. Have no set time in your
mind for results, except to know there is only now—
just the immediate moment. Take this discipline, use
it and you can manifest a resistless power in action
that cannot and never did fail.
"Always remember you are God picturing. You
are God-Intelligence directing. You are God-Power
propelling. It is God's—Your Substance, being acted
upon. As you realize this and contemplate the fulness
of it often, everything in the Universe rushes to ful
fill your desire, your command, your picture for it
is all-constructive, and therefore agrees with the
Original Divine Plan for Self-Conscious Life. If the
human side of us really agrees to the Divine Plan
and accepts
it,
there can be no such thing as delay
or failure for all energy has the inherent quality of
Perfection within
it,
and rushes to serve its Creator.
Perfection
is
the only predestination there is.
"As your desire or picture
is
constructive, you are
God seeing His Own Plan. When God Sees,
it
is
an
irrevocable decree or command to appear now. In
the creation of this earth and system of worlds, God
said: 'Let there be Light,' and Light appeared. It did
not take aeons of time to create Light. The same
Mighty God
is
in you now and when you see or speak,
1o8 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
it is His attribute of sight and speech which is acting
in and through you.
"If you realize what this truly means, you can com
mand by His Full Power and Authority, for you are
His Life-Consciousness, and It is only the Self-
Consciousness of your Life that can command, pic
ture, or desire a constructive and Perfect Plan. Every
constructive plan is His Plan. Therefore, you know
God is acting, commanding: 'Let this desire or plan
be fulfilled now,' and It is Done."
Here, Saint Germain finished speaking, and bid
ding me a smiling, good-by,— for the time being, dis
appeared from my sight. I turned my footsteps to
ward home, and the panther trotted close by my side.
It had been fully twenty-four hours without food,
and it was not long until it dashed off through the
woods and disappeared in the heavy timber. I con
tinued on my way and arrived home at eleven o'clock,
spending the rest of the day trying to realize the full
import of what I had been privileged to experience,
and how the entire concept of my world had changed
so unexpectedly.
CHAPTER IV
Mysteries of the Yellowstone
SEVEN
days passed, it was then the first week
in September. On the evening of the eighth
day, I sat contemplating Life and its infinite
expressions, when my thought turned naturally to
Saint Germain. Immediately, an overwhelming love
went out to him in deep gratitude for all I had been
privileged to experience, through his assistance and
Light.
A feeling as of a "Presence" in the room began to
come over me like a breath and looking up suddenly,
there He stood smiling and radiant, the very "Pres
ence of Divinity."
"My son," he said, "am I so unexpected a visitor
that I surprise you? Surely, you know quite well that
when thinking of me, you are in contact with me, and
when I think of you, I am with you. In meditation,
your attention was upon me and so, I appear. Is that
not according to the Law? Then, why not accept it as
natural? What one thinks upon, he draws unto him
self.
"Allow me to suggest that you train yourself never
to be surprised, disappointed, or your feelings hurt
under any circumstances, for perfect Self-control ot
109
no UNVEILED MYSTERIES
all the forces within you at all times is Dominion
and that is the reward for those who tread the path
way of 'Light' for only by correction of the human
self, can Mastery be attained.
"Remember always that the right to command,
which is Dominion, is only permanently retained by
those who have first learned to obey because he, who
has learned obedience to the 'Law of The One,' be
comes a Being of Cause only and that Cause— Love.
Thus, he in reality becomes 'The Law of The One'
through the quality of similarity. Watch, so nothing
goes out from you except that which is harmonious,
and do not allow a destructive word to pass your lips,
even in jest. Remember you deal with a force of some
kind every instant of Eternity, and you are its
qualifier at all times.
"I have come to take you on an important journey.
We will be gone thirty-six hours. Draw the curtains
to your room, lock the doors, and leave your body in
bed. It will be guarded until our return. You have
made certain Inner advancement, and a very interest
ing, delightful experience and journey are ahead of
you."
I prepared my body for bed and soon became very
still. A moment later, I stood upon the floor outside
of my body clothed in the same golden garment I
had worn on my visit to the Royal Teton. The sense
of density one has about the walls was gone, and as
MYSTERIES OF THE YELLOWSTONE 111
I passed through them, the feeling was that which
one experiences when walking through a heavy fog,
the wall itself losing its sense of density.
This time, I was clearly conscious of passing
through space. I did not ask where we were going
but it was not long until we came to the Royal Teton.
Toward the east, stood the towering Rockies, and
beyond them stretched vast plains that will one day
be teeming with semi-tropical vegetation, and its
people living in peace and abundance.
To the west, we could see the Sierra and Cascade
Mountains and still farther on the Coast Range,
whose shore line is all to be changed. Northward, we
looked down upon the "Yellowstone" whose marvel
ous beauty veils its ancient mysteries and wonders
from our present American civilization.
"The word 'Yellowstone,'
"
explained Saint Ger
main, "has been brought down through the centuries
for more than fourteen thousand years. At that time
the civilization of Poseidonis had reached a very high
point of attainment, because a Great Master of Light
was at the head of the Government. It was only dur
ing the last five hundred years that the decline took
place, and the misuse of her great wisdom held sway.
Within the present boundaries of the Yellowstone
which are still the same, existed the richest gold mine
the world has ever known. It belonged to the govern
ment and much of its wealth was used for experi
112 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
mental and research purposes in chemistry, inven
tion, and science.
"Thirty-seven miles from this place, was located a
diamond mine. The stones taken from it were the
most beautiful yellow diamonds that have ever been
found within this earth, before or since that period.
Among the gems which came from that mine were a
few rare stones of very remarkable beauty and perfec
tion. If properly cut, they showed a tiny blue flame at
the center, that looked like Liquid Light. When worn
by certain individuals, the radiance from this flame
could be seen more than an inch above the surface of
the stone.
"These were held sacred and only used in the high
est, most secret rites of the Ascended Masters. Sixteen
of them are still held in sacred trust by the 'Brother
hood of the Royal Teton,' and will again be brought
into use at an appointed time. It was because of these
magnificent yellow diamonds that the present name,
'Yellowstone,' has come down to us.
"You, my son, were the discoverer of both mines.
I will reveal the records that are the physical evidence
of what I have just been telling you. These records
give the date of their discovery, amount of wealth
taken out, length of time operated, description of the
machinery used, which handled refractory ores re
covering eighty-seven per cent of their value, run
ning of it into bullion while yet in the mine, making
MYSTERIES OF THE YELLOWSTONE 113
unnecessary any operation at the surface, where
shipped, and the date of closing and sealing. Here are
the duplicate records.
"In the life on Poseidonis, you lived in a beautiful
home with a sister who is now Lotus. Both attained
and maintained close contact with the 'Inner God
Self,' so God was truly in action at all times. You
were an official in the bureau of mines and through
that connection, invented and built a wonderful air
ship. In
it,
you traveled
a
great deal over the moun
tains. One day while in deep meditation, you were
shown the location of these mines which you later
discovered, opened up, and turned over to the gov
ernment. With this explanation,
I
will now show you
proof of what
I
have described, although there
is
not
a
trace of these mines on the surface today. Come,
we will enter the mine itself."
Leaving the Royal Teton,
I
was perfectly conscious
of passing through space and moving rapidly, until
we reached
a
certain spot in Yellowstone Park. Here,
we descended and stood before
a
wall of solid rock.
"Do you see any way to enter?" asked Saint Ger
main, turning to me.
"No, but
I
feel the opening
is
here,"
I
answered, as
I
pointed to
a
certain spot on the granite wall. He
smiled, and going up to the place indicated, laid his
hand upon it, and in
a
moment we stood before
a
metal door—unsealed.
114 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
"You see," he explained, "we have our own meth
ods of sealing any entrance we choose for protec
tion, and it is impossible for it ever to be found or
entered unless we so desire. The substance with
which we hermetically seal places and things is drawn
from the universal. It is harder than the rock itself,
though in appearance, exactly like it.
"In this way, we are able to protect entrances to
retreats, buildings, buried cities, mines and secret
chambers of the Great Ascended Brotherhood of
Light, many of which have been held in a state of
perfect preservation for over seventy thousand years.
When we no longer have use for such places or things,
we return them back to the universal, so you see all
power becomes the willing servitor of one who has
conquered himself. All forces of the Universe are
awaiting our command, whenever it is the part of
wisdom and love to use them."
On the door we faced was a replica of a man's right
hand, embossed in the metal itself at about the level
of my shoulder. It looked strikingly like my present
physical hand.
"Place your hand over this metal one," said Saint
Germain, "and press hard." I obeyed. It fitted over
the other perfectly. I pressed with all my strength.
Slowly, the great door opened and he continued:
"You have retained that form and size of hand for
several embodiments. It was placed on the door by
MYSTERIES OF THE YELLOWSTONE 115
the government as an honor because you were the
discoverer of the mine. That hand is a model of your
hand fourteen thousand years ago."
We entered through this door, and passed into a
long, round tunnel, finally emerging into a great
cavity. There to my utter amazement, I found tools
and machinery of various kinds made of an imperish
able white metal, in as perfect a state of preservation
as if constructed but yesterday. In the center of the
cavity was a shaft. Our present mining engineers
would be amazed at the simplicity and perfection of
the mining activities of that former age. The same
method will again be brought forth into use here in
America within the next century.
Saint Germain stepped to the shaft and pulled a
lever. Soon a cage of peculiar design came to the top.
We stepped inside, and he touched a smaller lever
within it. As we began moving downward toward the
two hundred foot level, we came to a station. Con
tinuing on down to the seven hundred foot level, we
stopped. This was the central station, and from it
led five tunnels, like the spokes of a wheel.
These were all perfectly round and lined with the
same white metal of which the machinery was con
structed. It was so thick and strong that only the
collapse of the mountain itself could crush it. Two
of the five tunnels were driven into the mountain
for more than two thousand feet. In the central sta
n6 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
tion was one engine that handled all the cars.
"The white metal you see," explained Saint Ger
main, "is a most remarkable discovery, for it is light
in weight, tougher than anything known, untarnish-
able, and imperishable. You may only give a frag
mentary description of all these marvels that are ac
tual physical proof of the great height of this ancient
civilization. Such wonders have existed and are now
in your midst, undreamed of until this revelation
shall go forth." As we came to the end of the tunnel,
he showed me the drills that had been used in that dis
tant day. "These drills," he continued, "sent forth a
tube of blue-white flame about an inch in diameter.
They operated at amazing speed, consuming the rock
as they passed through."
We returned to the station, and entered a
triangular-shaped room between two tunnels. At the
far end, were containers made of the same white metal.
They were about twelve inches square and three feet
in length. Saint Germain opened one and showed me
the wonderful, uncut, yellow diamonds. I was speech
less, they were so beautiful. I think I hear my readers
say: "Do you mean to tell me that these were phys
ical?" To that perfectly natural question, I wish to
answer, yes— just as physical as the diamonds you wear
on your fingers today. Other containers were filled
with cut stones of fabulous value.
We then returned to the entrance of the mine.
MYSTERIES OF THE YELLOWSTONE 117
Saint Germain closed the door and sealed it as be
fore. No one, not an Ascended Master, could have
distinguished it from the surrounding rock. Rising
from the ground, we quickly covered the thirty-seven
miles to the gold mine. This time, we stood on the
very top of the mountain, near a cone shaped rock
that looked perfectly solid. It was about fifteen feet
in diameter at the base and perhaps ten feet in height.
"Watch closely," he said, as he laid his hand against
it. Slowly a triangular-shaped section moved out, dis
closing a flight of steps leading downward. We de
scended these stairs for some distance and soon came
to a cavity at the top of a shaft similar to the one in
the diamond mine.
"You will notice the absence of crushers," he con
tinued, "everything is done within the mine itself.
Not a thing is handled at the surface." We stopped
at the four hundred foot level where there was an
other immense cavity. Here, complete equipment for
treating the ore was located. He explained the ex
treme simplicity of the process used which seemed
incredible, it was so simple.
We continued on down to the eight hundred foot
level, and saw the same arrangement as in the dia
mond mine. Here again, were tunnels going out from
a central point, like the spokes of a wheel. Three
triangular-shaped rooms had been built between
these tunnels, containing the remaining output from
n8 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
the mine, just before it had been closed. The same
white metal containers were here as in the other
rooms. Only three of them am I allowed to describe.
The first receptacle contained nuggets from an
ancient river bed in a placer formation at the eight
hundred foot level, in which the gravel had been
slightly cemented together, holding the gold. This
condition existed for a depth of twelve hundred feet
and held immense value. The second container was
filled with wire gold from a white quartz vein, at
the four hundred foot level. Another held solid gold
discs weighing eight pounds each.
"The place in which they stored all the gold," he
explained, "was' known as the bullion room. There
have been duplicate records kept of this mine. The
originals being in the record room at the retreat in
the Royal Teton—and the duplicates here." We re
turned to the surface. Once more Saint Germain
sealed the entrance as described and turning to me
again, said:
"My son, you discovered these mines and assisted
by your colleagues, put them into operation and
brought about this perfection. You also made the
records on the imperishable metal which I will show
you in the Royal Teton. The Ascended Masters saw
that the cataclysm of twelve thousand years ago was
approaching, and knowing the mines would not be
much affected, had them prepared and sealed for use
MYSTERIES OF THE YELLOWSTONE 119
in a far distant age into which we have now entered.
"At seven different periods of your many embodi
ments, the memory and process for making these
records has been recalled. You will bring them forth
again in the present age to the blessing of all man
kind. This accounts for your feeling since childhood
of interest in ancient records of all kinds, and that
you would have much to do with such work again
in this life.
"Come, we will now return to the Royal Teton.
There in a room adjoining the great audience hall
are these records to which I have referred. It is a
place for the preservation of inventions and scientific
discoveries. The one we were in on our former visit
contained only records of the various civilizations."
We returned to the retreat, and entered this time
by way of the tube, as on our first visit. Stepping out,
we passed through the second door to the right of
the entrance. It opened directly into the scientific
record room, a space about seventy, by forty, by
fifteen feet. The entire walls, ceiling, and floor were
lined with the same imperishable white metal of
which the shelving and containers were constructed.
Saint Germain drew out one of the latter and
handed me the record I had made of the diamond
mine. Again, I was able to read it but this time he
told me to call upon the God Self Within and thus,
let It reveal the complete former knowledge which
120 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
I had at that time. The record gave a clear but con
densed history of the discovery and operation. He
handed me another spindle, and on it was the com-
lete history of the gold mine.
"Now, that you have seen the physical proof of
what I have explained," he said, "I want you to know
that I will never tell you anything which I cannot
prove." Here, he turned toward me with a piercing
look in his eyes that passed clear through my mind
and body.
"My son," he continued, "you have done well and
are calm and poised under these recent experiences.
Much depends upon your next step. Focus your en
tire attention upon the All-Controlling God Self
Within you and do not forget to hold it there."
In the light of what occurred later, it was well he
had fortified me with that admonition. With that
warning, he led the way across the large audience
hall to the great bronze door on the west wall. Plac
ing his hand against it, the panel slowly moved up
ward until we had entered, and then closed after us.
I stopped— immovable with amazement, for I
looked upon that which human eyes are rarely, if
ever, permitted to behold; and the scene held me
motionless, so great was the fascination of its beauty
and wonder.
About twelve feet in front of me, stood a block
of snow white onyx three feet high and sixteen inches
MYSTERIES OF THE YELLOWSTONE 121
square. On this rested a crystal sphere filled with a
ceaselessly-moving, colorless "Light" in which were
points of radiance darting to and fro. The sphere
continually sent forth rays of prismatic colors to a
distance of about six inches. It seemed made of living
substance, so constantly did it scintillate.
Out of the top of the crystal ball poured forth
three Plumes of Flame, one molten gold, one rose
pink, and the other electric blue, extending at least
three feet in height. Near the top, each section bent
over like an ostrich plume— graceful, beautiful, and
in perpetual motion. The radiance from this gor
geous sphere filled the entire chamber, producing a
sensation of electronic energy no words can convey.
The Light, Life, and beauty of that scene simply
overwhelm human powers of description.
We stepped toward the far end of the room, and
there, side by side, stood three crystal caskets, each
containing a human body. As I came nearer, my
heart almost stopped beating, for within were the
forms Lotus, our son, and I had used in an ancient
embodiment. I recognized them readily, for Lotus
still retains some resemblance to that body but the
bodies of our son and myself had features of greater
regularity and perfect physiques. All showed the
full perfection of a type almost like that of the an
cient Greek.
They looked as life-like as though only sleeping.
128 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
Each had wavy golden hair and was clothed in gar
ments of similar golden fabric to that in the robes
worn by the figures in the tapestry. An Ascended
Master had but to look upon these bodies to see
registered every vital action experienced in any
physical embodiment since that time. Thus, they
acted as mirrors to record passing activities which,
however, left their original perfection unchanged.
Each casket stood upon a large base made of the
same kind of white onyx as that on which the sphere
was placed. These were covered by lids of crystal,
fitted very tightly in a groove around the edge, but
were not sealed. On the cover of all three just over
the center of the chest was a seven-pointed star. Be
low it were four hieroglyphics. At the end, and
placed so it would be just over the top of the head,
was a six-pointed star. On the side just beneath the
shoulders were two clasped hands and farther down
nearer the feet, was a lighted torch, placed so the
flame touched the lid of the casket. This flame re
mained golden no matter what other colors of light
played through the room. At the opposite end was a
five-pointed star under the feet. All the emblems
were raised as if embossed upon the crystal.
"These bodies," explained Saint Germain, "be
longed to you three in one particular life, when you
left the Golden City, to do a special work. Your ex
periences were so terrific and yet so much good was
MYSTERIES OF THE YELLOWSTONE 123
accomplished in that life, that a Great Cosmic Being
appeared and gave the command to preserve them
until such time as you could raise your bodies and
return to the Golden City. He gave full direction for
their preservation which was faithfully carried out,
as you see.
"Now, you can all realize how important and
necessary it is to keep keenly aware of and deeply
centered upon the Master Christ Self Within, that
only God's Love, Wisdom, and Perfection may act
through your minds and bodies at all times."
At that moment, a Dazzling Light and Tremen
dous Power surged through me and my God Self
spoke.
"Great Master of Light—Parent, Brother, and
Friend! O Mighty Son of God! Thou hast indeed an
Everlasting Love and through It, thou hast attained
thy well deserved Eternal Peace and Mastery over
the five lower kingdoms. The Great God Self in these
children, thou lovest so well, shall soon come forth in
Full Conscious Dominion, to give every assistance
thou hast so long desired, for each of God's children
has a service to perform which none but he may give.
I call forth the 'Great Light' from the very Heart of
God to bless you forever."
As these words were spoken, a great shaft of Light
blazed forth, filling the chamber with points of bril
liant prismatic colors. They darted everywhere in
124 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
the room and all became a blaze of rainbow Light,
pulsing with Life.
"See! my Son," said Saint Germain, "how per
fectly you can let the Great God Self express. You
shall soon be able to do this consciously and at will,
whenever you desire.
"Notice the stalactite effect on the ceiling and the
silver-white appearance of the walls. They are all
made of precipitated substance, and the room is
maintained at the same comfortable temperature
at all times." We crossed to the far end of the cham
ber and stood before a polished archway in the wall.
Saint Germain placed his hand upon
it,
and
a
door
opened disclosing the wonderful white metal equip
ment for making the records. "In the age we are now
entering," he continued, "much equipment will be
brought into humanity's use that has been preserved,
and so will not have to come through either the
avenue of invention or discovery."
"How
is
it,"
I
asked, "that everything in this re
treat and the mines
is
kept so free from dust and the
ventilation so good?"
"That," he explained, "is very simple. The As
cended Masters use the same force to cleanse and
ventilate by which they produce heat, light, and
power. The emanation from any one of them, as they
pass through the mines or chambers, instantly con
sumes all unnecessary substance. It
is
nearing the
MYSTERIES OF THE YELLOWSTONE 125
second morning since leaving your body, and we
must now return."
We passed through the audience chamber out of
the door at the left of the tube, and stood once more
under the light of the stars. We came back to my
room quickly and a moment later, I was again in my
body. Saint Germain stood beside me holding out the
familiar crystal cup, filled this time with an amber-
colored liquid. I drank
it,
and felt the vivifying ef
fects pass through every cell of my body.
"Now sleep as long as you can," he said and dis
appeared from sight.
I
must have slept soundly, for
I
awakened many hours later completely refreshed,
my body renewed in strength and power.
CHAPTER V
Inca Memories
THE
next ten days passed uneventfully.
Through past training, I never went to sleep
without holding my attention upon the
Great God Self Within, and sending a thought of
loving gratitude to Saint Germain. On the evening
of the eleventh day while retiring, I heard his voice
say distinctly:
"Come!" I had learned to obey that call and im
mediately stood outside of my body, passed quickly
through space, and in a few moments came to the
Royal Teton. He stood upon its side awaiting my ar
rival. This time, he had called me to come to where
he was. I obeyed and saluted him.
"At your service," I said, stepping to his side, and
smiling at me he replied:
"We have work to do. Let us go!"
I was fully aware of the direction in which we trav
eled, certain we were going a little west of south.
Soon, we saw the lights from a city, and Saint Ger
main, directing my attention to them, remarked:
"Los Angeles." After traveling some distance far
ther on, we passed over another lighted section and
this time to my inquiry, he answered:
126
INCA MEMORIES 127
"Mexico City." We then came to a tropical forest
and began to descend. Presently, we stood upon the
old ruins of an ancient temple.
"These are the ruins of Mitla in the state of
Oaxaca, Mexico," he explained. "You three came
into embodiment to give assistance, as the Inca civili
zation reached its apex. With the approval of the
Ascended Masters who were directing, you chose to
come into the Inca family to give the service needed
at that time.
"Here, you were born as the children of an Inca
ruler who was a strong soul of great growth and il
lumination. In deep love for his people, he called to
the One Supreme God for 'Light,' abundance, and
perfection to bless them and the land.
"The Inca's devotion to his Source was very great
for he knew and consciously acknowledged the
power of the 'Great Central Sun.' This True Under
standing was taught to the Incan people and, because
they knew to what the Great Central Sun referred,
used the Sun as the symbol of the Godhead. They
had real, inner understanding, and acknowledged the
fulness of the power from this Great Central Sun
which today we call the 'Christ,' for it is the Heart of
the Christ Activity in the Universe.
"Because of the Inca ruler's devotion to both his
Source and the people, his deep desire for blessing
and Light to guide and help them was granted, and
128 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
fourteen from the Golden City over the Sahara Des
ert responded to give him assistance. You, Lotus and
your Son were three of that fourteen.
"When you were ten, Lotus twelve, and your Son
fourteen, all were placed under my care and direc
tion, to be prepared and trained for the work you did
later. At that time, I resided in the Golden City but
after the preliminary attunement had taken place, I
came to the palace daily and gave the necessary radia
tion and instruction. This continued for four years
before it was revealed to your father.
"The Inca ruler was amazed at the wisdom of his
children, and constantly poured out his praise and
gratitude to God for thus blessing him. When you
were fourteen, the same Great Cosmic Master who
had taken us all to the Golden City at the end of the
embodiment in the Sahara Civilization, appeared to
the Inca, and told him his petition had been granted
in a very real manner.
"It was from this time on for over seventy years,
that the Incan civilization came to its greatest height.
I came daily from the time you were fourteen, in
structed and attuned the Inca ruler as well as you
three. You were referred to as the Inca children from
the 'Sun.' His gratitude, love and co-operation were
wonderful indeed, and he was taught to understand
and use the Great Cosmic Law.
"Your childhood and youth were wonderful for
INCA MEMORIES 129
no cloud came to mar the beauty of that training.
Your son was taught the Laws of Government and
the Divine Duties of a Ruler; Lotus the Inner Work
and given the full law and consecration of Priestess
in the 'Temple of the Sun.' You were taught the
Cosmic Laws of the priesthood, also secretly, the gen
eralship of Armies.
"After ten years of special training in Peru, all
three of you were sent north to one of the new col
onies of the Incan Empire for the purpose of help
ing the people to expand their activities and stimu
late their progress. You went forth with all the love,
honor, and blessing the Inca ruler knew how to give,
and established the capital of the colony at what is
now Mitla in the state of Oaxaca, Mexico, whose
glory has come down through the centuries.
"Here, you built a great temple under the direc
tion of Those in the Golden City, by whom you had
been instructed and helped. Lotus was called Mitla
in that life, and it was in honor of her that the city
was named. Here, she served as priestess for more
than forty years. It was one of the most magnificent
temples of that period, and no expense was spared,
for the secret part of
it,
built below the surface of
the earth, was to remain, and bear witness to that
splendid civilization centuries later. You knew this at
the time
it
was built, and certain definite orders were
given and fulfilled concerning it; because the entire
130 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
construction was directed by one of the Great As
cended Masters from the Golden City.
"The outer part was made of massive stones, some
of which may still be seen today among the ruins.
The interior was lined with marble, onyx, and jade.
The jade came from a secret source in the Andes
Mountains, that has never been revealed to anyone.
The coloring of the interior decorative work was
most artistic and beautiful, the main color scheme
being gold, purple, rose and shell pink.
"The Inner Sanctuary was gold with designs in
purple and white. The chair in which the priestess
officiated was also of gold. Here, the Spiritual Power
was focused and maintained which radiated out to
the empire and its people. With this explanation as
a preliminary, we will now enter the subterranean
temple, in which a room has been preserved amidst
the ruins of a once great glory." We went some dis
tance farther away— when Saint Germain com
manded:
"Stand back!"
He focused a Ray of Mighty Power on a pile of
great rocks before us. Suddenly, they were thrown
in every direction uncovering a cube of rose colored
granite. He stepped forward and placed his hand
upon it. Slowly it turned, as if on a pivot, revealing
an opening about three feet wide with well defined
steps leading downward. We descended twenty-one
INCA MEMORIES 131
steps to a door that seemed to be made of copper, but
Saint Germain said it was a combination of metals
alloyed so as to make it imperishable.
Pressing on a cube of rock to the right of the en
trance, the door swung slowly open and admitted us
into a small room. At the farther side was a great
archway closed by another massive door. This time,
he pressed his foot upon a stone of peculiar design
in the floor, and the door moved back, disclosing a
chamber of immense proportions that seemed very
much in need of cleansing and ventilation. No
sooner had the thought entered my mind, than the
place became filled with a powerful Violet Light, fol
lowed by a soft white haze, becoming brilliant as the
noon day sun. The cleansing was complete, for every
thing was fresh, clean, and filled with the fragrance
of roses.
As we entered the great room, my attention was
held by a number of the most remarkable portraits
I have ever seen. They were etched on solid gold in
colors true to life.
"These," Saint Germain explained, "are also
indestructible. Five of them are of the Inca Ruler,
Lotus, your son, you and myself all in the likeness of
the bodies we used at that time. It was only during
the Incan period that this particular kind of art has
ever been expressed. Through the devotion of Lotus
to her own God Flame at that time, she attTacteo^ a
132 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
Great Master from Venus who taught her. That kind
of art was different from anything known on earth
in any age. The Master from Venus only allowed a
certain number to be made, because this particular
type of art was centuries ahead of its time, and there
fore was not permitted to be used at that period of
the world's development. However, it will come
forth in the present Golden Age, into which we have
now entered.
"My son! Oh, that the people of America could
only understand what tremendous possibilities stand
before them— waiting, waiting, waiting for them to
turn away from creeds, cults, dogmas, isms and all
else that binds and limits, by keeping their attention
from the Great God 'Presence' within their own
hearts! Oh, that they might realize what freedom,
power, and Light await their service, dependent only
on their recognition and use of the Great Loving
'Presence' Within, breathing through them each
moment, know and feel the Almighty Control it has
over all manifestation! Oh, could they only realize
that their bodies are the 'Temples of the Most High
Living God,' Who is Ruler of heaven and earth; that
they might know what it means to love that Mighty
Self, talk to
it,
acknowledge
it
in all things, and feel
the Reality of That 'Presence,' with at least as great
a
certainty as they do other persons and things! If they
could only feel the closeness and reality of the Great
INCA MEMORIES 133
'Presence' deeply, even for a moment, nothing could
ever again stand between them and the Same Mighty
Supreme Accomplishment as Jesus and other As
cended Masters have attained.
"O America! Beloved Children of the 'Light!' let
this Great God 'Presence,' Its wisdom and power
surge through you now and see how quickly God's
Kingdom can and will manifest upon earth. America
is the Way Shower among the nations, bearing the
'Light' that heralds the incoming Golden Age. Re
gardless of her present conditions, 'That Light' shall
burst forth and consume the shadows that seek to
disrupt her Ideals and Love for the Great God Self."
We then passed through a door at the right where
we found more imperishable records, this time of the
Incan civilization and the important part it played
in that cycle.
"You recalled the process for making these records
from the memory of your life fourteen thousand
years ago," remarked Saint Germain. "They will be
transported to the Royal Teton together with the
portraits, for this secret temple has completely ful
filled its usefulness and is now to be dissolved."
Soon Beautiful, Glistening Beings appeared and
removed the portraits and records. When they had
finished, we returned to the entrance and walked
some distance away. Saint Germain focused his at
tention for a few moments upon the position o£ the
134 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
secret temple, and stood very silent. I felt a sudden
stillness grip and hold me motionless. There was a
great rumbling like an earthquake. In a moment, all
was over and the secret temple, which had been the
most magnificent creation of its day, collapsed into
ruins.
I could but gasp at Saint Germain's stupendous
power. Truly the Great Ascended Masters are Gods.
It is no wonder in the mythology of the ancients that
their activities have been brought down to us in the
guise of myth and fable. They wield tremendous
God-Power at all times because they hold with un
wavering determination to the Great God "Pres
ence," and hence all power is given unto them, for
they are All Perfection.
"When Jesus said: 'Verily, verily, I say unto you,
the works that I do shall ye do also, and greater works
than these shall ye do,' he knew whereof he spoke,"
continued Saint Germain.
"He came forth to reveal the Conscious Dominion
and Mastery that it is possible for every human being
to attain and express, while still here on earth. He
showed the Dominion of the Ascended Master, and
proved to mankind that it is possible for everyone to
so call forth his God Self, that he can consciously
control all things human.
"The Great Ascended Masters of Love, Light, and
Perfection who have guided the expansion of the
INCA MEMORIES 135
Light in humanity on this planet from the beginning,
are no figment of anyone's imagination. They are
real, visible, tangible, glorious, living, breathing
Beings of such Love, Wisdom, and Power that the
human mind gasps at the immensity of it. They work
everywhere in the universe with complete freedom
and limitless power, to do naturally all that the
average individual considers supernatural.
"They are wielders of such power and manipu
lators of such force as to stagger the imagination of
the person in the outer world. They are the
Guardians of the race and, as in the world of physical
education, various grades of teachers are provided to
guide the development of the individual's growth
from childhood to maturity, and then beyond, pre
paring him for special work; so do the—Ascended
Masters of Perfection exist to educate and help the
individual that he too may expand his consciousness
beyond ordinary, human expression. Thus, he de
velops his superhuman attributes, until like the stu
dent graduating from college, the one under the care
and instruction of an Ascended Master graduates out
of his humanity, into the full, continuous expres
sion of his Divinity.
"The Ascended Master is an individual who by
Self-Conscious effort has generated enough Love and
Power within himself to snap the chains of all human
limitation, and so he stands free and Worthy to be
136 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
trusted with the use of forces, beyond those of human
experience. He feels himself the oneness of Omni
present God— 'Life.' Hence, all forces and things
obey his command because he is a Self-Conscious
Being of free will, controlling all by the manipula
tion of the 'Light' within Himself.
"It is through the radiation or outpouring of this
'Light,' which is really his own 'Luminous Essence of
Divine Love,' that an Ascended Master is able to
help those who come under his care and direction.
"When such an outpouring to a student takes
place, his own Inner bodies, and by that I mean his
emotional, mental, and Causal bodies, absorb the
Master's Luminous Essence, and the 'Light' within
them glows and expands like a spark which one fans
into a flame.
"This 'Luminous Essence' has within It the High
est Force in the Universe, for It dissolves all discord
and establishes Perfect Balance in all manifestation.
The Ascended Master's Body is constantly pouring
out Rays of his 'Light Essence'— upon the discords of
earth, dissolving them as the rays of force which we
call light and heat from our physical sun dissolve a
fog.
"The Radiation they pour out to humanity on
earth is consciously-drawn energy to which they give
quality, and again send it out to accomplish a def
inite result. In this way, they give protection thou
INCA MEMORIES 137
sands and thousands of times to persons, places, con
ditions, and things of which mankind is totally
oblivious, going on its appointed way, serenely un
conscious of its Protectors and Benefactors.
"In this kind of activity, the Ascended Masters are
able to change the bodies they function in like one
ordinarily changes his clothes, for the cellular struc
ture is always under conscious control, and every
atom is obedient to their slightest direction. They
are free to use one or more bodies, if the work they
desire to do requires
it,
for their ability to assemble
or dissolve an atomic body
is
absolutely unlimited.
They are All-Powerful Manifestors— of all Substance
and Energy, for the forces in Nature, which mean
the four elements, are their willing and obedient
servants.
"These Glorious Beings, who guard and help the
evolving human race, are called the Ascended Mas
ters of Love, Light, and Perfection. They are all the
word Master implies because, by bringing forth the
Love, Wisdom, and Power of the God Self Within,
they manifest their Mastery over all that
is
human.
Hence, they have 'Ascended' into the next expression
above the human—which
is
the Superhuman— Divin
ity, Pure, Eternal, Ail-Powerful 'Perfection.'
"The humanity of earth frequently, in its igno
rance and limitation, presumes to pass judgment
upon and express various opinions about Jesus and
138 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
many others of the Ascended Host. That practice is
one of the most binding things it can indulge in, for
in such activity, the criticism and judgment sent
forth in this way simply return to its generator, and
thus mankind is bound more tightly to its self-created
suffering and limitation. The activity of the Law is
that the Ascended Masters, having freed themselves
from human limitations, have become a Blazing
Outpouring of Light into which no human thought
of discord can possibly enter. This compels all de
structive thought creation and feeling to return to
its sender, and bind him still more closely in the
chains of his own creation.
"If human beings could see their own thoughts,
feelings, and words go out into the atmosphere upon
the ethers, gather and gather more of their kind and
return, they would not only be amazed at what they
give birth to but would scream for deliverance and,
if for no other reason than to blot such creation out
of mind, they would with full determination face
their own Divinity and enter into It. Thoughts and
feelings are living, pulsating things. The individual,
who knows that, will use his wisdom and control
himself accordingly.
"Jesus is to mankind gaining its experience on this
earth, as the Great God Self, within every human
being is to the personal or outer-self. He revealed the
Master Record to the outer world, and He is still the
INCA MEMORIES 139
Living Proof of the individual's ability to free him
self from all limitation and to express Divinity as
was originally intended, for the first condition in
which humanity existed was wholly harmonious and
free.
"When some of those individuals who study Life
and the Laws of the Universe, more deeply than the
mass of earth's children, become aware of the fact
that there are Ascended Masters, they often desire to
go to these Great Ones for instruction. While, in
many instances, this is an unconscious upreaching of
the soul within to the Greater Light, yet the per
sonal self little realizes in what relation it stands to
those Great Beings who are Wholly Divine.
"There is a way by which an intensely earnest and
determined student may make contact with one of
them, but that can only be through the activity of
enough Love and discipline of the personality. If the
motive for such contact be for the gratification of
curiosity, thinking to prove or disprove the As
cended Masters' existence, to merely solve a prob
lem, or to convince a doubt in the personality, it will
never come about, rest assured of that for the
Ascended Host are never concerned with satisfying
the human side of any student. Their entire effort is
with the expansion of the God Self Within, so that Its
Power may be released forcefully enough to snap
the limitations in the human self, that do not give
140 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
It a perfect vehicle for use in the mental, emotional,
and physical worlds of manifestation. These are the
realms of thought, feeling, and action.
"Human weaknesses and limitation simply impair
the vehicle that should be trained and kept in the
best possible condition, as an efficient servant, for
the use of the Great Inner God Self. The human
body with its faculties is God's Temple of Energy,
which the 'Great God Presence' provides and
through this outer-self, It wishes to express a Perfect
Divine Plan or Design. If the uncontrolled sense
appetites and demands of the personality waste the
God-Energy, so the 'Inner Presence' is not given
command of the vehicle, It steadily withdraws, the
human self loses the power to manipulate mind and
body and the temple collapses into decrepitude and
dissolution. We then have the condition the world
calls death.
"The person, who seeks to contact an Ascended
Master in the visible, tangible, living, breathing
body, without the preparation needed to gradually
attune his own outer structure and mind, is in the
same position a child in kindergarten would be, were
he to see a college professor and insist on learning
the A. B. C.'s under him.
"The Ascended Masters are really Great Batteries
of tremendous power and energy, and whatever
touches their Radiance becomes highly charged with
INCA MEMORIES 141
their 'Light Essence,' through the same activity that
makes a needle kept in contact with a magnet take on
its qualities, and become a magnet also. All their
help and Radiation is forever a free gift of Love. This
is the reason they never use any of their force to
compel.
"The Law of Love, the Law of the Universe and
the Law of the individual do not permit the As
cended Master to interfere with the free will of the
individual, except at those periods of Cosmic Ac
tivity, in which the Cosmic Cycle supersedes that of
the individual. It is during these times, the Ascended
Master may give more than ordinary assistance. The
earth has entered such a Cycle now, and the greatest
outpouring of the 'Light,' the earth has ever known,
is being and will continue to be shed upon human
ity, to purify it and re-establish the Order and Love
that is imperative for the future maintenance of our
planet and the system of worlds to which we belong.
All that does not or will not come into the action of
order, balance, and peace—must of necessity pass into
some other school-room of the universe, and work
out its own understanding of this Law, in some other
way than is to be the expression of the future Life
upon our earth.
"There is only one passport into the 'Presence,' of
these Great Ones and that is enough Love poured out
to one's own God Self, and to Them, united with the
148 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
determination to root out of the human all discord
and selfishness. When an individual becomes deter
mined enough to serve only the Constructive Plan
of Life, he disciplines perfectly his human nature, no
matter how unpleasant the task. Then, he will auto
matically draw to himself the attention of an As
cended Master, who will take note of his struggles
and pour out courage, strength, and Love sustaining
him, until he maintains the feeling of his permanent
contact with the Inner God Self.
"The Ascended Master knows and sees all con
cerning the student for he reads clearly the record,
which the student has made in his own aura. This re
veals the state of the disciple's development— his
strength as well as his weakness. The Ascended Mas
ter is the All-Knowing Mind and the All-Seeing Eye
of God, for from him nothing can be hidden. The
one who wishes to come into the visible, tangible
'Presence' of the Ascended Host, should understand
that unless he makes himself a Radiating Sun of
Love, Light, and Perfection which the Master can
expand, and use as a part of Himself, that he can
direct to any place consciously at will, he would be
useless, merely a barnacle and drain upon the Mas
ter's work and world.
If the student has not, be not willing to, or does
not discipline the personal self, so it is calm in mind,
peaceful and loving in feeling and strong in body, he
INCA MEMORIES 143
is not material that the Ascended Master can use in
the more-than-human work that he does. When the
student has not a strong, controlled, well developed
vehicle, he is unable to co-operate with an Ascended
Master, and thus do work of a kind which is beyond
that of ordinary human experience.
"Were one of these Perfected Beings to take a
student without such qualities into his field of work,
he would be making the same mistake one does in
building a machine or home, if he constructs it of
imperfect material.
"That kind of material naturally could not stand
unusual strain, under sudden need, or prolonged
service. Thus, it would not be the part of wisdom,
Love, or mercy to subject anyone to an experience
for which he has neither the training nor is strong
enough to bear. As the Ascended Masters are the
Acme of Perfection, they naturally would not do
anything except that which is just, loving and
wise.
"The attitude of one who wishes to work in con
scious co-operation with the Ascended Host should
not be, 'I wish I could go to them for instruction,'
but rather, 'I will so purify, discipline, and perfect
myself, become such an expression of Divine Love,
wisdom, and power that I can assist in Their work,
then I will automatically be drawn unto Them. I will
love so constantly, so infinitely, so divinely, that the
144 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
very intensity of my own "Light" will open the way
for Them to accept me.'
"My son, self-correction and control of the forces
within the use of human consciousness is not the
work of a moment, nor a path of ease, lethargy, and
self-gratification, for the senses riot within the aver
age human being, and he rebels furiously against the
restraint of his lower nature which is imperative, if
he is to govern these forces properly within himself,
especially in his feelings, so they may be used and act
only under the conscious Dominion of his God-
Mind.
"The saying that, 'Many are called but few are
chosen,' is very true. All are constantly being called
but few are awake enough to realize the ecstatic joy
and Perfection within the God Self, and to hear Its
Voice in the 'Light' forever and forever calling every
one back into the Father's House.
"Every individual on earth is free each moment to
'Arise and go unto the Father'— his God Self, if he
will but turn his back upon the creation of the
human senses, and hold his attention on the Only
Source in the Universe from which peace, happiness,
abundance, and Perfection can come.
"There is a way for all to come into contact with
the Ascended Masters, and that is to think upon
them, call unto them and they will answer every
call with their own 'Presence' of Love, but the mo
INCA MEMORIES 145
tive for the call must be, Love of the One Source,
Love of the Light, Love of Perfection.
"If this be real, determined, and steadfast, the stu
dent will receive greater and greater Light, for the
'Light' knows Its own and gives of Itself, unceas
ingly, unconditionally, every moment. Ask and ye
shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you,
seek and ye shall find, call unto the 'Light' and the
Ascended Masters will answer you, for they are the
'Light' of this world.
"Lotus served as a priestess in the temple of Mitla
for more than forty years with you and your son.
By the combined efforts of you three, the various
cities in the colonies were brought to a state of great
perfection. You established industries and directed
the agriculture, until prosperity abounded in the
land.
"It was revealed to the Inca ruler, when he was to
finish his earthly pilgrimage and service in that civili
zation. It was then, he called the three of you home
to him. Others were appointed to take your places
and with blessings and Love to your people, you bade
them farewell.
"On your arrival home, the king was much sur
prised to find none of you had aged during the long
absence. Your youthful appearance was the result of
training received in childhood, and still greater
proof that his children had been divinely sent in
146 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
answer to his prayer. Deep gratitude, to the One
Mighty God for blessing him, his children, and the
people, always filled his heart."
At this point, as Saint Germain described the
Incan embodiments, living pictures began to appear
in the atmosphere before me, all in their original
color and activity. They lasted for nearly three hours,
and he revealed those ancient experiences, as a living
reality in Peru and Mitla.
The Inca ruler called the fourteen from the
Golden City together, in preparation for the most
important event of his earthly pilgrimage. He knew
the hour of passing was near, and the affairs of the
empire had to be transferred into the control of the
elder son, whom he was to appoint his successor at
the banquet.
The palace was famous for centuries as the most
magnificent building of the period, because the king
had tremendous resources at his command, through
out the entire reign. He lived close to his God Self at
all times and wealth untold flowed into his use. The
interior of the palace was most ornate, the private
rooms of the royal family being decorated in pure
gold set with jewels, and the symbol of the Sun used
wherever possible, as a constant reminder of the God
Self Within.
The banquet hall was set with five tables of carved
jade resting on white onyx pedestals, each seating
INCA MEMORIES 147
twenty people, with the exception of the royal table
at which were sixteen, these being the fourteen from
the Golden City, the king, and the Master, Saint
Germain, who was then known as "Son Uriel." The
chairs at the king's table were made of gold, slightly
canopied with gorgeous ostrich plumes in magnifi
cent colors. In the Inca's chair, the plumes were a
beautiful violet; in Saint Germain's an intense gold;
the daughter's pink; the eldest son's violet, but of a
lighter shade than the ruler's, and those in the chair
of the younger son, white representing the authority
of the priesthood. The plumes in the chairs of the
rest of the fourteen from the Golden City, were of
varying colors, beautiful beyond description, the
color in each case representing the office and service
that each occupant gave to the empire.
Cloths of a very soft material, heavily embroidered
with thread of remarkable brilliancy, covered the
tops of the tables. The entire palace was lighted by
self-luminous crystal globes that Saint Germain gave
to the Inca ruler, when his instruction first began.
The king wore a royal robe of golden, metallic-
like fabric with a marvelous jeweled breastplate rep
resenting the "Sun." Over this was his robe of office,
made of rich, purple fabric trimmed with magnifi
cent ostrich plumes around the entire edge, and deep
collar. His crown was a band of diamonds, that held
three violet plumes at the back. These three plumes
148 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
in the Inner Life of the ruler symbolized the three
activities of the Godhead— Father, Son and Holy
Spirit, acting through man as Love, Wisdom, and
Power. The two sons were clothed in garments sim
ilar to their father's, except for the long robe of state,
each wearing the symbol of the "Great Sun," formed
by a breastplate of jewels. The crown of the elder
son was set with emeralds and the plumes at the
back were violet like the king's, but of a lighter
shade. The headdress of the other son was set with
pearls, and his plumes were white, another symbol
of his office as priest.
The king's daughter was robed in a golden fabric
fine as gossamer silk, with an over-drape of opales
cent material, dazzling to behold that changed color
with every movement of the body. She wore a
jeweled girdle of diamonds and emeralds with its
panel reaching nearly to the floor. On her head was a
close-fitting cap of woven material, and around the
neck a chain, on which hung the symbol of the
"Great Sun" set in diamonds, rubies, and emeralds.
Her sandals were of gold, also jeweled.
Just as the king left his private chambers on the
way to the banquet hall, a Blazing Light flashed
through the rooms, and Saint Germain stood before
us, looking like a God. The "Light" about him was
almost blinding in its Brilliance, and it took us a few
seconds to become accustomed to it.
INCA MEMORIES 149
His beautiful golden hair hung to the shoulders,
and was held in place by a band of blue diamonds
around the forehead. His own Intense Radiance
shone through the color of the hair, until it looked
like sunlight. The piercing, sparkling violet of his
eyes contrasted strongly against his skin that revealed
the soft pink color of youth and perfect health. His
features were very regular like those of the ancient
Greeks.
He wore a robe of marvelous, dazzling white fabric
entirely different from anything in our modern
world. It fitted the body slightly at the waist around
which was clasped a girdle of yellow diamonds and
sapphires, with a panel reaching to his knees. On the
third finger of his left hand was a ring set with a
gorgeous yellow diamond, and on the middle finger
of his right a sapphire almost as brilliant, both blaz
ing tremendously because of his own great Radia
tion, as he had just come from the Golden City.
The king was surprised and overjoyed at his ap
pearance and making the sign of the heart, the head,
and the hand, bowed low before him and offered the
Master his arm. They proceeded thus into the ban
quet hall.
Here, the tables had been laid with an entire serv
ice of gold, crystal, and jade. The children of the king
soon entered and, when they beheld their beloved
Master, were almost overcome with joy. However,
150 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
they did not forget the dignity of the occasion and,
making the Divine Sign he had taught them, bowed
low before their father and Distinguished Guest.
The signal was given and all were seated. The
king sat at the head of the table, the Master, Saint
Germain, at his right and next to him his daughter.
The elder son was placed at his left and the younger
son next, then the rest from the Golden City.
At the close of the banquet, the ruler arose and all
gave complete attention. He stood silent a moment,
and extending his hand to the beloved Saint Ger
main, introduced him to the guests. The Master
bowed graciously, and the king told them how the
Higher Spiritual Law had been taught to him and
his children, and how the great blessings which had
come to the land and its people, were the result of
the Master's Great Love. He explained further that
the banquet had been given for him, to appoint his
successor to the throne.
He signaled to the elder son to rise and announced
him as their future ruler. Removing the Royal Robe,
he placed it upon the son's shoulders and Saint' Ger
main raising his hands above him in blessing, said:
"I bless you my son, in the Name and Power of the
One Mighty God— in man and governing the Uni
verse—whose Supreme Wisdom shall direct you,
whose 'Light' shall Illumine you, whose Love shall
bless and enfold you, the land, and its people."
INCA MEMORIES 151
Touching the thumb of his right hand to the fore
head of the son, the Beloved Master raised his left
hand and a Blinding Flash of "Light" enfolded them.
The king then appointed those who were to take
the places of his daughter and two sons in the temple
at Mitla. Saint Germain, the king, his children, and
the rest of those from the Golden City, proceeded
into the throne room where the Master turned and
again addressed them, saying:
"Beloved ones of Light! Your brother, the king,
will soon pass to his well deserved rest and higher
instruction. Until that time— I will remain with you.
Your civilization will reach its apex under the ruler-
ship of this our beloved brother, and you will need
much added wealth to accomplish all that is to be
done. In the heart of the mountains not far distant,
is great treasure of gold and precious stones.
"The younger son of your ruler has not so far re
called a faculty, he used formerly. I will quicken it
into action again, that the requirement of your
future activities be supplied." He stepped toward
the younger son and touched his forehead with the
thumb of his right hand. A tremor passed over the
body and his Inner Sight became opened.
He saw in the mountain fastness a certain location,
which held such vast wealth, he knew they would
need no other supply for whatever might be required
to produce the things they were to use in the outer
152 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
activities. The son made obeisance to his Beloved
Master and promised that with his assistance, the
plan for its use would be fulfilled. Three of the mines
which he opened and operated were closed and
sealed, when the reign of those from the Golden City
was finished. They have remained closed to this day.
Archaeologists, in various ways from time to time,
are finding evidence and proof of the tremendous
height to which this civilization reached, and the
splendor of its attainment. The fragments of the
Incan activities, they have discovered so far, are of
the civilization during its decline but the day will
come, when that which was expressed at its apex will
be revealed to the blessing, enlightenment, and serv
ice of posterity.
The following day, messengers were sent to the
principal points in the empire, announcing the as
cension to the throne of the king's son. His reputa
tion had preceded him from the City of Mitla, for his
wisdom, nobility of character, and justice were
known throughout the kingdom during the years he
served there.
A few days later, the younger son directed the head
mining engineer to prepare equipment, men, and
supplies for going into the mountains and opening
the mine that he had been shown through the use of
his Inner Sight.
When they were ready to start, the son remained
INCA MEMORIES 153
alone and held his attention fixed steadily on the God
Self Within, knowing that he would be directed un
erringly in finding the mine, and because of this,
had no difficulty or delay in going directly to the lo
cation shown him in the vision. He put a large num
ber of men to work, and in sixty days had opened the
mine to the point where they made contact with the
richest gold vein that has ever been located in South
America, before or since that time. The discovery
and operation of that mine has come down to the
present day in legend among the people. The
younger son returned from his achievement amidst
the warm welcome of the people, and received the
blessings of his father, Saint Germain, his older
brother and sister.
The location of the mine was at an altitude of
eight thousand feet, and during the time the king's
son was there he became highly sensitized, an activity
that always occurs at high elevations. Upon his re
turn to the palace, he felt clearly the time had ar
rived for the Inca ruler to make the great change,
and knew his passing was near.
The day arrived for the coronation of the king's
son, when he was to assume legally and publicly the
responsibility and duties of the realm. The royal
family asked their Beloved Master and Friend to
perform the act of crowning the new ruler, to which
he graciously agreed.
154 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
Elaborate preparation for the important event
had been completed, and the ceremony had pro
gressed to the moment when the crown was to be
placed upon the head of the new ruler. All noticed
that Saint Germain made no effort to receive it.
Suddenly, there came a Blinding Flash of "Light,"
and before them stood a Most Wonderful Being. She
seemed to be a girl of only eighteen, but from her
eyes and "Presence" shone forth a Dazzling Radi
ance, filled with the Love, Wisdom, and Power of a
Goddess. The Light that filled the atmosphere
around her, was crystal-white—sparkling within It
self and scintillating constantly.
Extending her dainty hands to the crown-bearer,
she lifted the crown, and with infinite grace placed
it upon the head of the king's son, and in a voice that
was the very soul of music, said:
"Beloved of the Golden City: I crown you with
Love, Light, and Wisdom of which this crown is
the symbol. May your justice, honor, and nobility
ever continue. By a Divine Order, I shall reign with
you, invisible to all but those of the Golden City who
are here."
The new ruler knelt to receive the crown and the
Wondrous Being stooped and kissed his forehead.
She then turned to the assembled guests, extended
her hands, and blessed them. Immediately, a soft,
rose colored Light filled the entire place, It being the
INCA MEMORIES 155
outpouring of Her Love to them. She blessed the
former king and turning to his daughter held her in
a fond embrace. To the younger son, she extended
her hand and he, kneeling, kissed it with deep
reverence.
The new king ascended the throne and bowed to
his guests. Offering his arm to the Beautiful Being,
he led the way to the banquet hall, and here they cele
brated the coronation by a feast. He gave the signal
to be seated and then addressed them.
"My greatly beloved people," he said, "I know
there is but One Mighty 'Presence'— God— in man
kind and the Universe, governing all. It is my desire,
as it ever has been, to so live that my mind and body
are clear channels and perfect expressions of the One
Great Indwelling 'Presence.' May you, my friends,
my people, our land, and its activity be always blessed
with God's greatest Love, peace, health, and happi
ness. May this empire, which is God's domain, and of
which we are but the custodians, continue in
abundant prosperity. The Love of God in me shall
always enfold you, and I ask God's Eternal 'Light' to
raise you into His Divine Perfection."
As the banquet progressed, the former king grew
very pale. The new ruler signaled his brother who
stepped to his father's side, and assisted him to the
private rooms of the royal family. The king lay down
and remained motionless nearly four hours. His chil
156 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
dren, the Master Saint Germain, and the Beautiful
Being remained at his side.
When the final moment of his earth span arrived,
the Beautiful Being stepped forward to the head of
the couch on which he lay, and addressed him, saying:
"Brother Inca: thou hast thought to leave thy form
to the action of the four elements but I say to thee,
it shall be Raised, Transmuted and Illumined into
that Eternal 'Temple of God' that expresses All Per
fection. Thy great service hath freed thee from the
wheel of birth and so-called death. Be thou now re
ceived by the Ascended Host of Light, with whom
thou art forever—One."
Slowly, the body was raised into its Eternal Per
fection and then completely disappeared. Saint Ger
main turned to those who stood by.
"My work here is finished," he said, and stepping
forward, placed a ring of most unusual design upon
the third finger of the king's right hand. Its jewel was
a miniature self-luminous globe of some kind of pre
cipitated substance that looked like pearl, and directly
within the center was a tiny blue Flame. It was a
focus of "Light," the same as the globes Saint Ger
main had given the king's father with which the pal
ace was lighted.
"Accept this," he continued, "from the Master of
the Golden City. It is His request that you wear it
upon your person always." Bidding them farewell
INCA MEMORIES 157
and bowing graciously, he disappeared from sight.
The Inca's three children had perfect physical
bodies, due to the instruction they had received in
childhood from the Master, Saint Germain, when he
came daily from the Golden City to prepare them
for their life service to the people. All had most beau
tiful golden hair and violet blue eyes. The two sons
were fully six feet three inches in height and the
daughter about five feet seven. There was a great
natural dignity of bearing, suggesting the Inner Do
minion, which they had gained under his instruc
tion. When the elder son ascended the throne, he was
sixty-eight years old, yet looked not more than twenty-
five. Even at the time they left the earth, none looked
more than that age. The new king reigned forty-seven
years, living to the age of one hundred fifteen. The
daughter lived to be one hundred thirteen and the
younger son one hundred eleven.
The Incan people of that period were all dark-eyed
and dark-haired, with skins like the American
Indian. Those, who incarnated as the mass of the
Incan people, were not souls of previous advanced
knowledge, as was the case in some of the former
civilizations such as Egypt, Atlantis, and the Sahara
Desert. For this reason, the Great Host of Ascended
Masters, who assist in expanding the Light within
humanity, placed the Incan ruler, his children, and
the rest of the fourteen from the Golden City in
158 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
charge of the government and its people, to establish
the pattern upon which the later activities were to be
molded. They designed a form of government and a
plan of development which, if adhered to, would
have enabled the entire civilization to reach a great
height of outer accomplishment, and at the same time
receive tremendous Inner Illumination.
As the time drew near to select a ruler from among
the Incas themselves, to succeed the king and his as
sistants, great care was taken to choose those whose
Inner Growth was most advanced. Fourteen were
found to take the places of those from the Golden
City. The Beautiful Being had made herself visible
to the king every day for forty-seven years, giving
advice and assistance through Her Radiation that
wisdom and strength might be the directing power of
the people.
The successors to the king and the fourteen from
the Golden City were called into the presence of the
much loved and wise ruler, and the Beautiful Being,
who had been invisible, made herself visible to all.
The "Light" about her grew very bright and she
addressed them, saying:
"For over ninety years, the Great Ascended Masters
of Light have taught, enlightened, blest, and pros
pered the people and this empire. The example is
before you. If you follow it, all will continue to pros
per and bless your land. If you do not keep the Love
INCA MEMORIES 159
for the One Supreme God Self first in your hearts and
acknowledge him always as the Ruler of the empire
and its inhabitants, decay will set in, and the glorious
perfection, enjoyed for over a century, will be for
gotten. I commend you to the care of the Great
Supreme 'Presence' in all. May He ever protect,
direct, and enlighten you."
Here, a visible proof of the existence of the Inner
God Self of each human being was revealed to those
who were to guide the destiny of the empire—during
the succeeding years. This same example will again
be given to the present people of America.
Then, in the presence of the new ruler and his as
sociates, the king and the fourteen from the Golden
City stepped out of their bodies and revealed the
Divine Self of each visible to all assembled. In a few
moments the physical bodies disappeared, dissolving
in ambient air.
"Thus," explained Saint Germain, "is revealed to
you the record of another life, the blessing and
achievement which results from loving acceptance
of the Supreme 'Presence' of the One God Self
Within. Let us now go back to the Royal Teton."
We returned to the entrance and passed forward
to the audience chamber. There on its walls were the
portraits etched on gold, transferred from the ancient
temple of Mitla. We went on to the record room, and
saw the records carried by the Beautiful, Glistening
160 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
Beings. Other things too had been brought wh1ch I
have not permission to reveal.
As these experiences ended, I realized at least par
tially, something of what real Love
is,
for no one can
possibly explain the intense feeling of Love and
gratitude one has for the Ascended Masters, after be
ing permitted the experiences
I
had passed through,
since first meeting Saint Germain. It can never be
put in words. There is only one overwhelming desire
in Life after such contact, and that
is
to "BE" what
they are.
Then, one comes to realize what Jesus meant by the
Father's House, and where the home of the Soul
really is. Once he has really, even for the fraction of
a
second, experienced the Ecstatic Bliss Radiating
from an Ascended Being, there
is
nothing in human
experience he would not endure or sacrifice in order
to reach that height of attainment, and work for in
order to express such Dominion and Love also.
One really knows such Perfection
is
for all of God's
children and
is
as real as reality can be. Even the
happiest life lived by the average human being
is
certainly the husks of existence, compared to the
Ascended State of these Great Ones. The most beauti
ful and, so-called perfect, creation of human beings
with all their boasted power and accomplishment
is
coarse and crude, compared to the Freedom, Beauty,
Glory and Perfection that
is
the daily, continual ex
INCA MEMORIES 161
perience of everyone who has raised the body as Jesus
did.
I was almost overwhelmed by a feeling of grati
tude and Love to Saint Germain, as it came time to
return to my body. He realized how I felt and under
stood by position.
"My son," he said, "you cannot receive what has
not been earned. You deserve this and much more,
which will become evident as we advance. Remem
ber, however, what seems mysterious only appears
so because it is unexplained. When understood, all
unusual occurrences will be found natural and ac
cording to Law. The following Truth shall remain
engraved on your memory forever. It is this:
"Every one of God's children who will acknowl
edge and accept the 'Presence' of the One Mighty
God, anchored Within his heart and brain, and feel
that Truth deeply many times a day, realizing and
knowing God fills his mind and body so full of
'Light,' there is no room for anything else, he can be
free. The One All-Powerful 'Presence' is the mighty
harmonious activity of one's Life and affairs, and if
his attention be fixed firmly with determination on
this Eternal Truth, no height of attainment is too
great for him to reach.
"There is but One Source and Principle of Life
to which we should give our undivided attention and
that is the God Self Within every individual. To the
162 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
Great Harmonious Self, the personal self should give
conscious recognition at all times, and keep in con
stant Inner Communion with It, no matter what the
outer activity of the mind is.
"This One Great Self is the Life-Energy flowing
through every human body each moment, by which
all are enabled to move about in the world of form.
It is the Wisdom flowing through the mind, the Will
directing all constructive activities, the Courage and
Strength sustaining everyone, the Feeling of Divine
Love with which all force can be qualified, as it flows
through the individual—the Only Power that can ever
accomplish any good thing. It is the All-Victorious,
Conscious Dominion over every condition of human
activity, when released through the personal self
without resistance or interruption.
"This Mighty God Self Within you is the Supreme
Ruler of all creation, and the only dependable, per
manent and Eternal Source of help in existence. Only
through Its Love, Wisdom, and Power can anyone
ever rise into the Ascended Mastery, for constant,
conscious communion with It is Freedom and Do
minion over all human creation. When I say human
creation, I mean all that is discordant and less than
Perfect."
We returned to my body, and as soon as I had re
entered
it,
Saint Germain took my hands and poured
a
stream of his Divine Energy through me to sustain
INCA MEMORIES 163
and give strength. I instantly felt revivified in both
mind and body. I sat down, fixed my attention with
deep intensity upon my own "God Presence," and
offered up a prayer of gratitude for the tremendous
blessings I had been privileged to receive. He bowed
graciously and disappeared.
CHAPTER VI
Buried Cities of the Amazon
A
SHORT time later, I was working intently
one evening, when I heard Saint Germain's
. voice distinctly.
"Be ready," he said, "tonight at nine o'clock, and
I will come for you."
I was alert in an instant, hurried through my work,
bathed, and was preparing for an early dinner.
"I will bring you the proper nourishment," he ex
plained, so I waited and entered into the deepest
meditation of which I could be aware, recognizing
only God's Perfect Manifestation.
Promptly at nine o'clock, he appeared in my room,
wearing garments of Glistening Metallic-like Sub
stance that looked as if made of burnished steel but
felt like a combination of very soft silk and rubber
extremely light in weight. I touched the beautiful,
wonderful fabric and was so fascinated that I stepped
forth from my physical body, and was unaware of it,
until I turned and saw it lying in bed. Stepping for
ward to a large mirror in the door, I saw my garments
were exactly like those of Saint Germain. I wondered
at this, and did not understand why they were dif
ferent from the ones in which we had gone forth be
164
BURIED CITIES OF THE AMAZON 165
fore. He saw that question in my mind and an
swered it.
"Try to realize, my son, that in the Ascended Con
dition of Life, we are always free to use the Pure,
Universal Substance for whatever purpose we choose,
and give it any specific quality we desire for the re
quirement at hand.
"If we wish to use material that is imperishable we
impose that quality upon the Pure, Universal Sub
stance, and It responds accordingly. If we wish a form
to be manifest only a definite length of time, we give
the Substance, of which it is composed, that quality
or command and the form manifests accordingly. In
the present instance, we are going to pass through
water and the Radiation from the material in your
garment so surrounds your finer body, as to insulate
you from the natural qualities and activities of the
water element.
"Try to think upon this Power, which is within
you. Call into use the great sea of Universal Sub
stance from which you may draw without limit. It
obeys without exception, the direction of thought,
and records any quality imposed upon
it,
through
the activity of the feeling nature in mankind.
"Universal Substance
is
obedient to your conscious
will at all times. It
is
constantly responding to human
ity's thought and feeling, whether they realize
it
or
not. There
is
no instant at which human beings are
166 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
not giving this Substance one quality or another, and
it is only through the knowledge that the individual
has conscious control and manipulation of a limit
less sea of It, that he begins to understand the possi
bilities of his own Creative Powers, and the responsi
bilities resting upon him in the use of his thought
and feeling.
"Mankind through the centuries has qualified the
Universal Substance with perishability and limita
tion, and the bodies it uses today are expressing—
those characteristics. The entire human race has
storms of hate, anger, revenge, and many other out
bursts of feelings and the four elements, which have
recorded those qualities, return them to man through
the world of nature as storms. The people of earth
have cataclysms of thought and feeling as resentment
against each other, against injustice, against places
and things, knowingly and unknowingly sending out
the feeling of revenge. The great sea of Universal
Substance upon which these qualities have been re
corded expresses them back to their source— the in
dividual—by means of the four elements, as cata
clysms—in Nature.
"Such activities are but Nature's ways of purifying
and shaking herself free from the contamination of
human, discordant thought and feeling, and return
ing to her pristine condition— of God's Purity.
"Every moment, each individual is receiving into
BURIED CITIES OF THE AMAZON 167
his mind and body the Pure and Perfect Life of God.
Each moment, he is also giving quality of some kind
to the Pure, Universal Substance of God. This quality
he alone creates and generates and he must receive it
back into his mind and body, for all things in the
Universe move in circles, and thus, return unto their
source.
"The Ascended Masters have learned the 'Law of
the Circle'— 'The Law of the One.' Hence, we impose
upon the Pure Universal Substance only the quality
we wish to use, for the special work in hand. If we
desire a manifestation to express a certain length of
time, we set the time, give the command, and the
Substance of which that special manifestation is
composed, responds accordingly.
"In the case of the records at the Royal Teton and
certain retreats throughout the world, it is necessary
for our work that certain things be made imperish
able, in order to be maintained during the centuries.
We decree that quality into them, and they record
exactly our decree, for Nature never lies. She is a
Truthful recorder of the qualities playing upon Her.
She obeys us, and also obeys man, but there is a cer
tain activity within Her, that mankind is either in
ignorance of or else stubbornly refuses to acknowl
edge. For this ignorance and stubbornness, it pays
and pays and pays continually, until the individual
personal-self learns and does acknowledge this Fun
168 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
damental Eternal Truth: It is 'The Law of the One'
—'The Law of Love'— 'The Law of Harmony'— 'The
Law of the Circle'— 'The Law of Perfection.'
"When humanity really does learn that Truth and
obeys Its Everlasting Decree, the discords of earth
and the destructive activities of the four elements will
cease.
"There is a Self-generating and Self-purifying
Force within Nature that rises, and throws off all that
disagrees with the 'Law of the One.' This force or
Energy is a Pushing Activity from within, out and is
the One Power expanding. If discord is imposed upon
Pure Universal Substance, the Electronic Energy be
comes temporarily dammed up within it. When such
accumulated energy reaches a certain pressure, ex
pansion takes place, shattering the discord and limi
tation. Thus, 'The Great Life of the One'— 'The
Ever-Expanding, Luminous Essence of Creation'—
'God in Action' overpowers whatever seeks to oppose
It, and goes on Its appointed Way the Supreme Ruler
of the Universe. The Ascended Masters of Light
know this and are 'One' with that knowledge.
"Mankind may know
it,
and be at 'One' also—
if
it
only will.
It
is
within the capabilities and possi
bilities of every individual, for It
is
the Innate
Eternal Principle within Self-Conscious Life. All
human beings are Self-Conscious Life. This Prin
ciple plays no favorites, and all can express Its fulness.
BURIED CITIES OF THE AMAZON 169
"Within the Life of every human being is the
Power by which he can express all that the Ascended
Masters express every moment, if he but choose to
do so. All Life contains Will, but only Self-Conscious
Life is free to determine upon its own course of ex
pression. Hence, the individual has free choice to
express either in the human, limited body or the
Superhuman, Divine Body. He is the chooser of his
own field of expression. He is the Self-Determining
Creator. He has willed and chosen to live as Self-
Conscious Life.
"When one individualizes within the Absolute,
All-Pervading Life, he chooses of his own free will to
become an intensified, individual focus of Self-
Conscious Intelligence. He is the conscious director
of his future activities. Thus, having once made his
choice, he is the only one who can fulfill that destiny,
which is not inflexible circumstance, but a definitely
designed plan of Perfection. It is a blueprint which
he elects to express in the realm of form and action.
So you see, my son, a human being may at any time
determine to rise out of his human qualities or limi
tations and if he will give all of his Life, his Energy,
to that determination, he will
succeed^
Those of us
who have raised the body accomplished the 'Ascen
sion' by giving all unto the God Self Within—and
hence, It expresses through us Its Perfect Qualities—
'The Divine Plan of Life.' Come, let us go."
170 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
[As we started on our journey, I was conscious of
going south and east. We passed over Salt Lake City,
New Orleans, the Gulf of Mexico, the Bahama Is
lands, and then came to a silver ribbon which I knew
to be a river. This we followed to its mouth. As we
proceeded the God- Voice Within me, said:
"It is the Amazon."
<
"Now, be conscious," instructed Saint Germain,
"that the God in you is always directing and is Master
of every situation."
Just at that moment, we began to descend, and in
an instant touched the surface of the water. It seemed
as firm as solid earth under our feet, and I experi
enced a feeling of surprise at the contact. He ex
plained further, that we could go under water quite
as well as to remain on top, because the garments we
wore radiated a protective aura for a considerable
distance around our bodies, and contained the con
ditions we needed which enabled us to explore the
subterranean strata of earth and things under
water.
'[This," he continued, "is due to what the scientific
world would call an 'electrical force-field' around our
bodies, but the electronic force with which these gar
ments are charged is of a higher, finer electricity than
that known in your physical world] Some day, even
your men of science will stumble upon it and realize
it has always existed in the atmosphere but they have
BURIED CITIES OF THE AMAZON 171
not known how to direct and control it for the service
of mankind.
"It is much more easily directed by the mind, than
by physical apparatus of any kind, yet it can be drawn
and controlled through mechanical means. That
which the outer world knows as electricity is but a
crude form of the— Great Spiritual Energy of Life.
It exists throughout Creation. As man raises and
keeps his consciousness in contact with his Inner God
Self, he will become aware of the gigantic possibilities
in the use of this higher power and force. Its service
to him is Infinite in the creative work that he can
do in all phases of activity."
We then entered the water, passing through it with
no resistance at all. I was slightly startled at the
novelty of the experience but remembered instantly
the admonition to be conscious only of the God
Within me, as the Master of every condition.
Presently, we came near the shore and passed over
many crocodiles, who saw us but were undisturbed
by our presence^Proceeding inland, we came to what
looked like the top of a monument.
"This is the top of a sixty-foot obelisk," explained
Saint Germain. "There is only about ten feet above
ground. It marked the highest point in a city of im
portance that was buried during: the last cataclysm,
when Atlantis was submergelOrhe obelisk is made
of imperishable metal and covered with hieroglyph
172 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
ics of that period. Notice, they are very clear and
will remain so because of the indestructibility of the
metal. {The city was originally built ten miles from
the edge of the river but at the time it was submerged,
the mouth of the river was widened many miles.'j
jTWe rose above the earth, and passed forward, fol
lowing the Amazon to a point fifty-six degrees west
longitude^ There, we took observations, and then
proceeded to a point seventy_degrees west. Saint
Germain explained that this was the locality for fur
ther observation and research. The section he indi
cated covered the Amazon between these two points,
and also two of its principal tributaries, the Jurua
and Madeira rivers^
*
f|j_h1s c1v1l1zat1on," said Saint Germain, "was built
during the period between twelve and fourteen
thousand years ago. The portion of the country we
are concerned with is that section reaching from
where the Madeira River empties into the Amazon,
to a point west where the Amazon touches Colombia
and PeruT]
"Th1rteen thousand years ago, the Amazon was
held within great dykes of stone. The entire country
around it lay at an altitude of at least five thousand
feet, and instead of the tropical climate it has today,
a semi-tropical temperature existed the year round.
"For a great distance in this locality, the country
formed a table-land or plateau. Near the mouth of
BURIED CITIES OF THE AMAZON 173
the Amazon were wide beautiful falls. The city, in
which the obelisk stood, was built between the falls
and the sea coast, about ten miles south of the river.
There were great reptiles and vicious animals to be
found in the Orinoco River— to the north."
We came to a place near the Madeira River, and
Saint Germain cont1nued:
"This isthe site of an ancient city, the capital of
the emp1re and most important place in the civiliza
tion of that period." Here, he raised his hand, and it
became as clearly visible, as any physical city is today.
"Notice," he explained, "how it was built in a
series of circles and the business streets go out from
its center, like the spokes from the hub of a wheel.
The outer circles were pleasure drives built every
third mile. There were seven of these making the
city forty-six miles in diameter including the central
circle. Thus, the business activities did not interfere
with the beauty and convenience of the drives.
"The inmost circle was four miles in diameter, and
within it were placed the executive buildings of the
whole empire. The streets were all beautifully paved,
and constructed eighteen inches to two feet below the
surrounding buildings and grounds. They were
flooded every morning, and washed thoroughly clean
before the activities of the day began.
"Observe the unusual magnificence of the pleasure
drives, and how gorgeously beautiful were the plants
174 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
and flowers forming the banks on both sides. One
very predominant feature of their architecture was
that the top floors of almost all the buildings,
especially residences, were built with adjustable
domes. These could be opened or closed at will, as
they were constructed in four sections and arranged
so as to serve for either sleeping or entertaining pur
poses. The days were never uncomfortably warm,
and at evening the wonderful cool air from the moun
tains came as regularly as day appeared."
We entered the capitol, an enormous structure of
great beauty. The interior was finished in cream-
colored marble, veined in green and the floor, made
of a dark, moss green stone resembling jade in its
texture, had been laid so perfectly as to seem almost
like one piece. There were large tables in the rotunda,
of the same kind of green stone as the floor but lighter
in shade. These had heavy bronze pedestals placed
about three feet from each end. Here, Saint Germain
again held out his hand and we were among living
people, moving through the buildings and grounds.
I held my breath, astonished— for I saw an entire
race of golden-haired people with beautiful pink and
white complexions. The men stood fully six feet two
to six feet four inches in height and the women
averaged about five feet ten. Their eyes were a most
beautiful violet blue, very clear and brilliant, ex
pressing great, calm Intelligence. We passed through
BURIED CITIES OF THE AMAZON 175
a door at our right, and entered the throne-room of
the emperor. It was evidently his audience day, for
he was receiving foreign and local guests.
"This was the emperor, Casimir Poseidon," said
Saint Germain, in explanat1on, "tie was truly God
Incarnate. Note the kindly nobility of his face and
yet, the tremendous power within him. He was and
is an Ascended Master—blessed and greatly beloved.
For many centuries in myth and fable, his memory
was kept alive and the perfection of his kingdom de
scribed in epic poems, but as time passes into eternity
the memory of such great accomplishments fades,
and is often forgotten by succeeding generations."
Casimir Poseidon was every inch a magnificent
ruler. He was fully six feet four inches in height, well
built and straight as an arrow. When he stood, he
towered above those around him and the very atmo
sphere seemed charged with Mastery. His golden hair
was heavy and hung full to the shoulders. The royal
robe was made of a material that looked like violet-
colored silk velvet, trimmed in gold and under
it,
he
wore
a
close fitting garment of soft golden fabric. His
crown was
a
simple band of gold with an immense
diamond in the center of the forehead.
"These people," said Saint Germain, "were in di
rect contact with all parts of the world, through mar
velous aerial navigation that had been brought forth
for their use. All light, heat and power were taken
176 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
directly from the atmosphere. Atlantis, during this
period, was in a wonderful state of progress because
she had been governed and shown the way to Per
fection, by various Ascended Masters appearing from
time to time and ruling for the spiritual uplift of the
people.
"Again and again all the way down the ages, when
ever a great civilization has arisen it has been founded
on Spiritual Principles in the beginning, and main
tained obedience to those Laws of Life during the
time of its ascendency. However, the moment any
government or the people themselves begin to drift
into lax ways, so that injustice and the unclean use
of Life become habits, either of officials or the people,
disintegration begins and continues until they either
return to the Fundamental Laws of Balance and Pu
rity, or are wiped out by their own discord, that the
Balance may be re-established and a new start given.
pCasimir Poseidon was a direct descendant of the
Mighty Ascended Master Rulers of Atlantis.! In fact,
the civilization over which he ruled was a child of
\. the Atlantean culture and attainment. His capital
city was famous throughout the world for its mag
nificence and beauty.
"As the rural districts are shown, watch the method
by which objects are transported, for the power these
people used was generated in an instrument-like box
two feet square and three feet long, attached to the
BURIED CITIES OF THE AMAZON 177
mechanism of the implement in use. The water sup
ply from the streams was placed under control and
its power also utilized. There was no need for police
or military organization of any kind, because of the
method by which the people were reminded of 'The
Law,' and the wonderful sustaining power that was
radiated, enabling them to give obedience unto It."
To the east in the park, stood a magnificent build
ing. We approached it. Over the entrance were placed
the words: "God's Living Temple to Man." We en
tered, and found it much larger within than seemed
apparent from the outside. There must have been
seating capacity for at least ten thousand people.
In the center of this immense temple stood a ped
estal about two feet square and twenty feet high,
made of a Self-Luminous milk-white Substance that
gave off a White Light with a breath of pink in it.
Upon it stood a crystal globe two feet in diameter
made of some kind of Substance holding a soft, Self-
Luminous White Light within. It was very soft, and
yet so intensely luminous that the entire building was
brilliantly lighted.
"That sphere," remarked Saint Germain, "was
made of a Precipitated Material enclosing an Intense
Focus of 'Light.' It was drawn and placed in the
temple at that period, by one of the Great Cosmic
Masters, as a sustaining and Life-giving activity for
the people. It continually sent forth not only the
178 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
'Light,' but an Energy and Power which stabilized
their activities and the empire.
"The sphere of 'Light' was focused by the Great
Being, and the building erected around it afterward.
It was really a Precipitated Focus and Concentrated
Activity of the Supreme God 'Presence.' The Great
Cosmic Master, who established It, appeared once a
month beside the 'Light' and proclaimed 'The Law
of God,' 'The Law of Government' and 'The Law of
Man.' Thus, he decreed the Divine Way of Life and
was the Focus of the Christ Activity for the people
of that Age."
Here, Saint Germain stretched forth his hand
again, and living, talking pictures of this Great Being
passed before us. It is absolutely impossible to de
scribe in words the Glory of that "Presence." I can
only say, he was truly the Son of God in Perfect Ex
pression. In a moment, I heard the Great Cosmic
Master proclaiming "The Law" to the people.
The Record, the Majesty of his "Presence" and
"Decree" are burned into my memory for eternity,
so clearly do they remain in my consciousness. I give
His Decree to you, just as it still stands before me.
"Beloved Children of the One Mighty God! know-
est thou not the Life thou art using is from the 'One
Supreme Presence'— Eternally Pure, Holy, and Per
fect? If thou doest aught to mar the Beauty and
Perfection of that One Life, thou cuttest thyself off
BURIED CITIES OF THE AMAZON 179
from the Gifts of thy God. Thy Life is the Sacred
Jewel of thy God's Love—the 'Source' of the Secrets
of the Universe.
"Thy God doth trust thee with His Own Heart's
'Light.' Cherish Itl Adore It! Let It ever expand
unto greater Light and greater Glory! Thy Life is
the 'Pearl of Great Price.' Thou art the—keeper of
God's wealth. See thou use It for Him only and know
thou hast received the 'Light of Life,' for whose use
thou shalt give an accounting.
"Life is a continuous Circle, the Principle upon
which thy city is builded. If thou dost create That
which is like unto thy 'Source,' and knoweth His
Love and Peace within thee, if thou useth thy
Powers of Creation to bless only, then as thou dost
move around thy circle of existence, thou wilt know
the Joy of Life and unto It shall be added Greater
Joy. If thou dost not create like thy 'Source,' thine
evil shall return unto thee with more of its kind.
"Thou alone chooseth thy destiny and thou alone
answereth to thy God for thy use of 'Life'—thy
Being. The Great Law no one can escape. Long, have
I proclaimed this 'Law of Life.' The Law of 'Thyself,'
thou art unto thyself, because thou canst always
come unto thy God, if thou desireth the Perfection
of Life.
"I come not always as now, to hold thy straying
feet upon the Pathway of Truth nor to remind thee
180 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
of thy Eternal Light, set upon a mountain top for
thy guidance. In a far distant day, I will speak within
the Heart of man, and if thou lovest Life, thou wilt
call unto Me, abiding in many selves. Let this not
confound thee, my children. If thou wouldst know
Me— 'The Light'—thou wilt have to seek Me, find
Me, and having found, abide within Me always.
"In that day, the 'Father-Mother-Son' will be
'One' in the heart of man. The Son is forever the
Door— the Way unto God. In thy mind and in thy
heart is 'My Light,' ever reminding thee of 'My
Presence,' for in the time to come, I will be present
only in 'That Light.'
"Then, will I be Wisdom in thy mind to govern
the Love in thy heart, that thou mayest be filled with
the Peace of the One Life—God. Thy body is but
the instrument of thy Soul, and into thy Soul must
stream 'My Light' or thou wilt perish.
"My Light in thy mind is 'The Way' into the Heart
of All Light. Only by My Light in thee canst thou
expand the Light in every cell of thy Being into
greater and greater Being. In thy throat is My Light
which is thy power to speak My Words. Through
these, I always illumine, protect, and perfect my chil
dren. Words that do not this three-fold mission are
not My Words, and can only bring misery when
spoken.
"Meditate upon My Light in thy mind, in thy
BURIED CITIES OF THE AMAZON 181
heart, and thou shalt see within all things, know all
things and do all things. Then, that which is not of
Me can never confound thee.
"I speak these words now for they shall be en
graved upon the tablets of earth and the memory of
its children. In the far-off day of which I speak, one
of God's children shall receive these my words and
shall give them forth to bless the world.
"In that time, when thou hast fully received 'My
Presence* and art letting It always act in thy Life
and thy world, thou wilt find the cells of the body
thou doest then occupy, becoming bright with 'My
Light' and thou wilt realize thou canst continue on
into that 'Eternal Body of Light'—the Seamless Robe
of Christ. Then and then only, wilt thou be free
from the wheel of re-birth. Having traveled thy long
journey through human experience, and fulfilled
the Law of Cause and Effect, thou shalt transcend all
conditions governed by Law and shalt thyself have
become 'The Law'— All Love, 'The One.'
"
"Such is the Eternal, Ascended Body of Christ,"
said Saint Germain, turning to me, "in which one is
able to wield the Scepter of Dominion and be Free.
My son, even now you can ascend into 'The Light
of the One' for the Light is in your mind, the Light
is in your heart, and if you will stand in It firmly, you
can and will raise your physical body of limitation
into your 'Pure Eternal Body of Light,' forever
182 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
youthful and free, transcending time, place, and
space.
"Your Glorious Self stands ever waiting for you.
Come into Its Light and receive Eternal Peace and
rest—in action. It needs no preparation. It has All-
Power. Come fully into the embrace of your 'Light-
Self and that moment, even today, your present body
can become Ascended."
As he finished speaking, the pictures ceased. We
went a short distance farther on, and stopped at a
place where a large flat stone lay on the ground. As
Saint Germain focused his power upon
it,
the stone
raised from the earth and moved aside, disclosing
an opening with steps leading downward. We de
scended about forty feet, and came to
a
sealed door.
He passed his hand quickly over the door, unsealing
it,
and revealing certain hieroglyphics. "Center your
attention on this writing," he instructed.
I
did so, and saw the words: "God's Living Temple
To Man," stand out clearly on the door before me.
There in front of me stood the physical door we had
just seen
a
short while previously in the living pic
tures.
The door opened, and we entered
a
room under
one of the small domes built at each corner. In this,
were
a
great number of metal boxes about two feet
long, fourteen inches wide and six inches deep. Saint
Germain opened one, and
I
saw they contained sheets
BURIED CITIES OF THE AMAZON 183
of gold, on which the records of that civilization had
been written with a stylus.
I realized there must be rooms which had been
sealed and preserved under each of the four small
domes, and that the large central dome had been built
over the "Sphere of Light." We found a secret pas
sage connecting the four small rooms, passed on to
the second of these and saw the containers filled with
jewels belonging to the temple.
The third room contained golden and jeweled
ornaments, the throne chair, and other chairs of gold.
The throne chair was a striking example of the gold
smith's magnificent workmanship. The back formed
into a shell making a canopy over the head of the
ruler, and from its sides, hung golden drapes made of
tiny golden links each forming a figure eight. These
were looped back against the chair, making a delicate
and extremely graceful effect.
In the center of the room, was a table about four
teen feet long and four feet wide, made of real jade,
resting upon a golden bronze pedestal. Near it stood
fourteen jade chairs whose feet were tipped with
gold, the seats curved and the backs beautifully
carved. On top of the back of each chair, as though
standing guard, rested a beautiful phoenix made of
gold, the eyes set with yellow diamonds. This design
symbolized the immortality of the Soul, and the Per
fected Divine Being each individual becomes, as he
184 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
rises through the fire of suffering from the ashes of
his human creation.
The fourth room contained seven different types
of power boxes, as I called them, that received and
transmitted the force drawn from the Universal, for
lighting, heating, and propelling power. The records
showed these people were in contact with all parts
of the world through wonderful airships.[ Following
this civilization came one known as the Pirua, and
after that the Inca, both stretching over a period of
thousands of years}
Shortly before the city just described was buried,
it reached the height of its glory and the Great Cos
mic Master, who had drawn the Light by which it
was developed and sustained, appeared for the last
time to that empire. He came to warn of impending
disaster, and would have saved its inhabitants, had
they heeded him.
He foretold the cataclysm that swept the empire
into oblivion before five years had passed, and an
nounced it was his last appearance among them.
Those, who wished to save themselves, were in
structed to leave that part of the country and were
directed where to go, with the warning that the final
activity would be sudden and complete.
As he finished the prophecy, his body faded rap
idly from sight and to the consternation of the peo
ple, the pedestal and the crystal globe holding the
BURIED CITIES OF THE AMAZON 185
Eternal Light disappeared with him. For a time the
populace was disturbed by the forecast of events
affecting their empire, but after a year passed and
nothing occurred, the memory of His Presence be
came dulled, and doubt began to creep in, as to the
fulfillment of his decree.
The emperor and those more advanced in spiritual
growth left the kingdom, and came to a certain place
in the western part of the United States where
they remained in safety, until the change had taken
place.
The great mass of the people who remained, be
came more and more skeptical, and after two years,
one among them, more aggressive than the rest at
tempted to set himself up as emperor. When the real
emperor had left the kingdom, he sealed both the
palace and the temple in which the "Light" had been
maintained. The would-be emperor attempted to
force an entrance to the sealed temple and fell life
less at its door.
Near the end of the fifth year at noon on the fate
ful day, the sun was darkened and an awful terror
filled the very atmosphere. At sundown, terrible
quakes shook the earth and demolished the buildings
into unbelievable chaos.
The land, which is now South America lost its
equilibrium and rolled to the east, submerging the
entire eastern coast one hundred and sixty feet. It
186 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
remained so for several years and then gradually
righted itself, to within sixty feet of the original posi
tion where it remains today.
at activity caused the widening of the Amazon.
Previously the river was eighteen miles wide, deeper
than it is today, and navigable from end to end. It
flowed from what is now Lake Titicaca in Peru to
the Atlantic Ocean. In a former time, there had been
a canal built from the Pacific to Lake Titicaca, and
this connecting with the Amazon formed an entire
waterway between the two oceans^
￼
The name of the continent at that time was Meru,
it having been given the name of a Great Cosmic
Master, whose principal focus of activity was and is
at Lake Titicaca. The meaning of the name Amazon
is "boat destroyer," which has come down the cen
turies from the cataclysmic period referred to above.
The rolling of the entire continent of South Amer
ica explains many conditions on its western coast,
that geologists and men of science have been unable
to explain, from the scientific data they have dis
covered up to the present time.
Thus, do the great cataclysms of Nature draw the
cosmic veil over civilizations of splendid achieve
ment, and only fragments^of these come to light as
time passes into eternity. This Truth may be doubted
by the outer world but the records, of that civiliza
tion—now reposing in the Royal Teton, will one day
BURIED CITIES OF THE AMAZON 187
be its proof, reveal its existence, and the accomplish-
As I was shown these tremendous activities, I won
dered why a civilization could be brought forth so
wonderful, beautiful, and perfect in every way, and
then go down, through the terrible destructive ac
tivities of a cataclysm. Saint Germain saw the ques
tion in my mind and volunteered the following ex
planation:
"You see," he said, "when a group of mankind is
fortunate enough to come under the instruction and
Radiation of a Great Master of Light, such as this
Great Cosmic Being, it is given an opportunity of
seeing what the Plan of Life is for humanity, and the
Perfection it is intended to bring forth and live in
by its own conscious effort. However, unfortunately,
and it has been so many times down the centuries,
the people will not try to understand Life but let
themselves drop into a state of lethargy. They do
not exert the necessary effort required, to accomplish
these things by the power of God within the indi
vidual. They begin to lean on the One giving the
Radiation. The sustaining power is only withdrawn,
when the individual ceases to make conscious effort to
understand Life and willingly work in harmonious
co-operation with It.
"They rarely realize that most of their blessings
are the result of the sustaining power from the One
ment of that former a:
188 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
giving the Radiation. If a certain group of souls has
been taught the Way of Mastery and reminded life
time after lifetime of their Divine Birthright, the
hour arrives when no more assistance is permitted. It
is then the Radiation of the Ascended Masters is
withdrawn, and those souls are compelled to come
face to face with the fact that the sustaining and ac
complishing power was not due to their own effort.
"These must understand, they can only receive
that for which an effort is made. In such activity,
the experiences passed through compel them to make
the necessary self-conscious application, and when
that is accomplished, expansion and God-Dominion
begin to express.
"There is no failure for anyone who continues to
make self-conscious effort to express Dominion of the
Divine over the human, because failure only comes
when self-conscious effort ceases. All experience
through which the individual passes exists for one
purpose only, and that is to make him aware of his
'Source.' He must learn who he
is,
recognize himself
as
a
Creator, and as such, Master of what he creates.
"Everywhere throughout the Universe, whenever
the power to create
is
given to
a
Being, the responsi
bility of creating
is
always co-existent— with the
power. All creation
is
by Self-Conscious effort, and
if
the individual upon whom this Great Gift of Life
has been bestowed, refuses to take his responsibility
BURIED CITIES OF THE AMAZON 189
and do his duty, his experiences in Life will prod him
with misery until he does; for mankind never was
created in a condition of limitation, and it can have
no rest until the Perfection, with which it was en
dowed in the beginning is Fully expressed. Perfec
tion, Dominion, Harmonious use, and Control of
All Substance and Force is the 'Way of Life,'—the
Original Divine Blueprint for humanity.
"God Within the individual is that Perfection and
Dominion. It is that 'Presence' within the heart of
everyone, which is the Source of Life—the Giver of
every good and perfect thing. When the individual
looks to and recognizes his Source as the Outpouring
of All Good, he that moment automatically starts the
flow of All Good things unto him and his world, be
cause his attention to his 'Source' is the Golden Key
that opens every good thing unto him.
"The Life in every person is God and only by the
Self-Conscious effort to understand Life, and ex
press the fulness of good through himself, can the
discord in the outer experience cease. Life, the Indi
vidual and The Law are 'One' and so it is unto
Eternity.
'"Come," he continued, "we will go to a buried city
near the Jurua River." '>
We traveled west, and soon came to a slight ele
vation. Saint Germain extended his hand, and again
vivified the Etheric Records of those people. The
1go UNVEILED MYSTERIES
place we observed was the second city of importance
in the empire] The one from which we had just come
was the focus of spiritual power and activity, while
the second, we were now to see, was the seat of com
mercial and governmental operations, concerned
with the physical welfare of the population. Here,
was located the national treasury, mint, and govern
mental, experimental, and inventive activities.'
[Not far distant from this city, rose the Mighty
Andes, the source of the immense mineral wealth of
the empire. I noticed one thing among these people
that seemed most remarkable. All were so completely
at peace and thoroughly contented. They expressed
quiet and exquisite rhythm as they moved about. The
pictures came to an end, and we proceeded to the
only rocky spot visible.
Saint Germain touched one of the rocks. It moved
aside, and we saw a flight of twenty metal steps lead
ing down. These we descended and came to a metal
door. We passed through, went down twenty steps
more, and found ourselves before a massive, sealed,
bronze door. He reached to the right, and unsealed
a square opening in which were metal stops like those
of an organ. He pressed two of these, the great mass
slowly opened, and we stood in an immense room,
with everything just as it had been in that far off
time. It had been used as a display room for inven
tions to which the public had access. All the fixtures
BURIED CITIES OF THE AMAZON 191
were made of metal combined with what looked like
opalescent glass.
"This," said Saint Germain, "was made by a fus
ing process combining certain metals with glass in
such a way, as to make the metal strong as steel and
Imperishable. One man in the present age came very
near the discovery of the same process for he had all
but one element, and that would have made it im
perishable."
The entire room was lined with the same peculiar
metal and three massive doors led from it. Saint
Germain went to a box of stops, pressed three of
them, and all the doors opened at once. We entered
the first one and found a passage long and narrow,
more like a vault than a room. It was lined with con
tainers, filled with discs of gold about the size of a
silver dollar, stamped with the head of the emperor
and an inscription that read, "God's Blessing to
Man."
Entering the second door, we found similar con
tainers filled with uncut jewels of all kinds. In the
third room, the containers were flat, and held thin
sheets of gold, on which were written the formulas
and secret processes used in that period.
"Among these," said Saint Germain, "are many
formulas and processes which were not used in that
former time. They will be given into the use of the
present age."
192 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
He went back to the box of stops and pressed an
other. A fourth door opened which I had not noticed
before. This led into an arched tunnel or passageway,
connecting the treasury with the mint. It must have
been at least a quarter of a mile long and at the far
end we entered an enormous room.
It was the main part of the mint, and was filled
with a maze of machinery of most wonderful con
struction. Among many things I saw were machines
used for stamping the gold and cutting and polish
ing the jewels. They simply fascinated one, so per
fect was their operation. Here, Saint Germain showed
me a specimen of malleable glass, clear as crystal.
In this room were great quantities of native gold
nuggets, gold-dust, and gold ingots, weighing eight
and ten pounds each. I was speechless at such an
amazing quantity of wealth in one place, and Saint
Germain knowing how I felt, remarked:
"It is utterly impossible for such quantities of
wealth as you see before you to be released unto the
mass of mankind, because the selfishness within the
commercial world at the present time, makes it the
height of folly to let humanity waste more of Nature's
gifts.
"God and Nature bestow their wealth lavishly
upon the earth for the use and blessing of the Souls
who incarnate here, but the selfishness and lust for
power within the feelings of mankind make them
BURIED CITIES OF THE AMAZON 193
forget the 'Higher Way of Life,' and cause 'man's
inhumanity to man.'
"The few, who rise to control of the mass, should
have the Intelligence to know that what helps the
mass helps the individual most, but if they refuse
to recognize this 'Law,' self-destruction follows,
brought about by their own selfishness. Selfishness
and the feeling of power to control others blind the
reason and dull the perception of the outer mind
to its own dangers, and such individuals ride head
long to ruin in every case— ruin spiritually, mentally,
morally and physically, extending many times into
the third and fourth embodiment following. Only
Light can raise the individual above selfishness.
"Only when mankind rises out of the mire of its
own selfishness and lust in all its forms, can human
beings be entrusted with all that God and Nature
hold ready for Right Use; but any individual, as he
cleanses himself of his own selfishness and lust, may
have the fullest use of all these riches, when he will
use them harmoniously and for the blessing of others.
Individuals can make themselves ready to be cus
todians of these gifts, for in the age that is already
ushered in, only those will have unlimited use of
wealth who have made themselves worthy to be
Trusted Keepers and Dispensers of this treasure. God
and Nature provide these Gifts for man to use rightly
and Right use alone is the condition on which they
194 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
may be received." Saint Germain crossed his hands
upon his chest and continued:
"Mighty God! Enter so firmly into the hearts of
Thy children that they want Only Thee, then none
shall want for any of Thy Great Gifts."
He sealed everything as we had found it, and we
returned to my body which I re-entered quickly.
He again gave me the crystal cup filled with Living
Substance, and said:
"My beloved son, you will be a very valuable helper
and may God always bless you." With that blessing,
he bowed and was gone.
CHAPTER VII
The Secret Valley
ONE
morning sometime later, I received a
strange letter by post, asking me to come
to a certain address in Tucson, Arizona.
It conveyed the idea, that the information to be given
was of such a nature as could only be explained in
person. I considered the extraordinary way in which
the request had reached me, and yet felt an Inner
Desire to respond to the call.
In a few days, I went to the address given, rang
the bell, and in a moment the door was opened by a
tall, slender gentleman about forty years of age, with
iron gray hair and gray eyes, who stood perhaps six
feet one inch in height.
I introduced myself, and he greeted me with a
cordial, sincere handshake which revealed unmis
takably that his was an absolutely true and depend
able nature. His eyes were steady and fearless, and
he gave one the impression that he possessed great
reserve energy.
I felt an unusual Inner harmony about him, and
knew it could only mean the starting of a deep and
wonderful friendship. He too seemed aware of an
Inner something, that made each of us feel attracted
*95
196 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
to the other. He asked me to come in, and be
seated.
"You are here," he began, "at my request, and I
am deeply grateful, strange as it must have seemed
to you. Your address was given me by one of whom
I shall speak later. In explanation, I have this to
say, that I have made some very remarkable dis
coveries which I must ask you to accept on faith
until I can take you with me, and prove their truth
and reality to you.
"I was advised to get directly in touch with you
personally, as the only one to whom this should be
revealed and with which I am concerned. For a
starting point, I shall have to begin with things that
occurred twenty years ago.
"At that time, I had a beautiful wife. Now, I know
she had great Inner growth of which, however, I
was not aware. A son was born whom we both idol
ized. For five years, our happiness was complete.
Suddenly, without any warning or apparent reason,
the child disappeared.
"For many weeks, we searched and searched, and
did everything humanly possible to find him, but to
no avail. Finally, we gave up all hope. His mother
never recovered from the shock and five months later
passed on.
"She had made a strange request during the last
few days of her life, that her body be held in the
THE SECRET VALLEY 197
vault for seven days after her passing and then be
cremated. It seemed rather peculiar to me, for at no
time had we ever discussed anything in regard to
this subject. However, I complied with her wishes.
Imagine my surprise five days after her funeral, when
I received a call from the man in charge of the
cemetery, saying, he had found the vault open that
morning and the body gone. No clue to anything
concerning the whole strange occurrence was ever
discovered.
"Sixteen years later, I awakened one morning, to
find a letter upon the floor of my room addressed to
me but with no postmark. I picked it up, opened
it,
and read the contents, which left me mystified and
incredulous. It read:
"
'Your wife and son are living, well, and strong.
Soon you will see them. Have patience, until that
time. Rejoice to know there
is
no death. At the ap
pointed time, directions will reach you in this man
ner which you are to follow implicitly. All depends
upon your absolute silence. You shall see, and re
ceive full explanation of all that has seemed so
mysterious. Then, you will understand why Truth
is
far stranger and more wonderful than fiction, for
even the most extraordinary fiction
is
but the record
of
a
Truth that
is
somewhere in the universe.
"
'Signed,
"
'A Friend'
198 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
"My Friend, you can imagine my astonishment. At
first, I did not believe a word of it. The third eve
ning after this, I was sitting in front of my grate
fire, when I heard my beloved wife's voice as clear
and distinct as if she were in the room beside me,
saying:
"
'Robert, My Beloved! I am alive and well, and
our son is with me. We will be so happy, when you
are with us again. Do not distrust the message. It is
all true. You will be brought to us, if you do not
allow doubt to shut the door. I speak to you through
the Sound Ray which you will one day learn to use.'
I could stand the tension no longer, and said:
"Show yourself to me, and I will believe." In
stantly, the voice replied:
"
'Wait a moment.' In about three minutes, a Bril
liant Ray of Golden Light came into the room form
ing a tunnel, at the other end of which, stood my
beautiful wife. It was she— unmistakably.
"
'Beloved,' she said, 'seeming miracles have taken
place in the midst of your Life for years, but because
your attention has not been called in the right direc
tion, we had to wait until this time. Trust the mes
sage that will come to you. Then, you will come to us
and I assure you a new world will open. To our great
love there is no barrier.'
"Instantly, the Light Ray vanished and with It the
voice. My joy knew no bounds. I could no longer
THE SECRET VALLEY 199
doubt. I felt a relaxation, peace, and rest I had not
known for years. Then, came weeks of waiting which
I now know was a preparation going on within me.
At last the message, I longed for so much, came and
with it a diagram and directions to be followed.
"I saw this would lead me into the high mountains
southeast of Tucson, Arizona. I made preparation
to go at once, saying to my friends I was going to do
a little prospecting. I took a horse and pack animal,
finding very little discomfort and no difficulty in fol
lowing the directions given. If I could have gone
as the crow flies, I would easily have covered the dis
tance in two days.
"Just before sundown of the third day, I came to a
blind canyon and would have passed it unnoticed,
if it had not been for the diagram. I had just made
camp, when it became dark. I rolled up in my
blankets and soon dropped off to sleep, dreaming
most vividly, of waking in the morning and seeing
a young man, standing near by looking at me.
"When I did awaken, to my astonishment, there
stood the young man in real life, looking at me
intently. He greeted me with a beautiful smile, say
ing:
"'My friend, you are expected to follow me.' I
noticed, he had my things in readiness and turning
without further discussion, led the way toward the
head of the canyon. After about an hour, we came
2oo UNVEILED MYSTERIES
to a stop because of a cliff that seemed to close the
way before us.
"He turned, placed his hands upon the rock, and
pressed against it. A section of the wall, perhaps ten
by twelve feet, moved in to a depth of about one foot
and then slid to one side. We entered a tunnel that
centuries ago must have been the bed of an under
ground water-course. My companion closed the
entrance behind us and, as we turned to go forward,
a soft radiance spread everywhere, so we could see
quite clearly. I was astonished at all I saw but I re
membered the admonition I had received in my in
struction, 'to be silent.'
"We continued in the tunnel for more than an
hour, and finally came to a massive metal door. This
opened slowly at my companion's touch. He stood
aside, and waited for me to pass through. I stepped
out into the bright sunlight, almost breathless with
delight at the beauty of the scene before me. Ahead
of us, lay a valley of surpassing loveliness, about a
hundred acres in extent.
"
'My Friend,' said the young man, 'you have re
turned home after a long absence, all of which you
shall soon understand.' He then led the way to a
beautiful building, near the foot of a sheer cliff at
the upper end of the valley. As we came nearer, I
could see many kinds of fruit and vegetables growing
in abundance, among them oranges, dates, English
THE SECRET VALLEY 201
walnuts, and pecans. A beautiful waterfall poured
over the cliff, making a limpid pool at its base. The
building was a massive one, and looked as though it
had stood there for centuries.
"We had almost reached
it,
when
a
beautiful
woman in white appeared at the entrance. We came
nearer, and my beloved wife stood before us, more
beautiful than ever. In another instant,
I
held her in
my arms, and after all the agony
I
had been through
in those years,
it
was almost more than
I
could stand.
She turned, putting her arm around the young man
who had brought me, and said:
"
'Robert, this
is
our son.'
"
'Son!' was all
I
could say, so nearly was
I
over
come by my emotions.
"He stepped forward, put his arms around both
of us, and we three stood there for
a
moment in deep
est love and gratitude, happy once more.
I
suddenly
realized
it
was sixteen years since he had disappeared,
and by now he must be twenty-one. He answered
my thought, by saying:
"
'Yes, Father,
I
am twenty-one. Tomorrow
is
my
birthday.'
"
'How can you read my thought so readily?'
I
asked.
"
'O, that
is
a
very ordinary and easy thing for us.
It
is
all quite natural, when you understand how to
do
it
and really quite simple,' he replied.
202 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
"
'Come,' he continued, 'you must be hungry. Let
us have something to eat.' With their arms around
me, we entered the ancient building. The interior
was finished in pink marble and white onyx. I was
shown to a beautiful room where the morning sun
flooded everything with its glorious radiance. I re
freshed myself, and found a suit of white flannel
had been provided for me. I tried it on, and it fitted
perfectly. This surprised me but again I remembered
the admonition 'to be silent.' I went downstairs, and
was presented to a striking looking gentleman about
my own height with large, dark, piercing eyes.
"
'Father,' said my son, 'this is our Beloved Master,
Eriel. He is the one who saved the lives of both
Mother and me, and has trained us all these years
until you could be prepared to join us here. It was
he who sent you .the message and directions to come,
because the time had arrived for your definite train
ing to begin.'
"We entered the dining-room which was magnifi
cent, and I could not refrain from expressing my
admiration. It had been placed at the southeast
corner of the building on the main floor and was
flooded with sunshine morning and afternoon. The
walls were made of heavily carved walnut and the
beamed ceiling, inlaid between the beams with
motifs in hexagonal design. A solid piece of walnut
at least two inches thick, resting on an ornately
THE SECRET VALLEY S03
carved pedestal, served as a table and looked as if it
were thousands of years old. We took our places
around
it,
and presently
a
slender youth entered. My
son introduced him, by saying:
"
'This
is
our Brother, Fun Wey, whom Our Mas
ter brought from China, when he was an infant at
a
time when his Life was about to be taken. He
is
from
a
very ancient Chinese family, and
is
able to do many
wonderful things. He has always wished to serve us,
and we are privileged and happy to call him,
Brother. He
is
one of the most joyous natures
I
have
ever known.'
"Among the things for breakfast were luscious
strawberries with delicious date and nut cakes. We
went into the large living-room and the Master Eriel
said to me:
"
'At the time your beloved wife, who
is
your Twin
Ray, would have passed on,
I
saw an opportunity to
give certain assistance which would enable her to
reach the Ascended State, and thus have much
greater freedom and wider capacity for service.
It was my great privilege and joy to give that assist
ance.
'"I opened the casket, restored her to conscious
action— and enabled her to raise the body. It had al
ready reached
a
point of high attenuation, because
her desire for the "Light" was very great. It was her
intense adoration to and longing for the "Light,"
204 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
that made possible her Ascension. I explained this to
her the day you thought she had passed on.
"
'All three of you were children of mine in an em
bodiment of long ago. A great love was generated
then which has lasted through the centuries. Her
deep love made possible the assistance and raising
that has been accomplished at this time.
"
'Your son, who was stolen with the intention of
being held for ransom, was brought to this canyon.
The two concerned with his kidnapping began to
quarrel, and one planned to take the child's Life.
"
'I appeared before them and took him. They
were paralyzed by their own fear and neither ever
recovered. Both passed on a few weeks later. If one
deliberately takes the life of another human being
or determines mentally to take
it,
he has set
a
cause
into motion that will surely take his own.
"
'A feeling or desire for the death of another per
son will do the same thing, for
it
goes forth to the
person, and then begins its return journey to the
one who sent
it
out. Many times, individuals allow
resentment against injustice to flash forth, with an
intense feeling to rid the world of
a
certain individ
ual. This
is
a
subtle form of the thought of death,
and to the one who sends
it
out,
it
must return.
"
'Many, many people bring about their own dis
solution, by this very subtle activity of the human
self for no one ever escapes this "Immutable Law."
THE SECRET VALLEY 205
There are many phases of Its reaction and it is be
cause humanity indulges in such thoughts and feel
ings, that the race as a whole has been experiencing
the dissolution of body after body.
"
'The number of mankind that pass out through
physical violence is infinitesimal compared to the
deaths brought about by these subtle activities of
thought, feeling, and the spoken word. The human
race has been killing itself off for thousands of years
in this subtle way, because it will not learn "The
Law of Life" and obey It.
"
'There is only One Law of Life, and that is
"Love'.' The Self-Conscious, thinking individual,
who will not or does not obey that Eternal, Benefi
cent Decree, cannot and will not retain the physical
body because all that is not Love dissolves form and
it matters not whether it be thought, word, feeling
or deed— intentional or unintentional— the 'Law'
acts regardless. Thoughts, feelings, words, and deeds
are each but so much force acting, and eternally
move in an orbit of their own.
"
'If man knew that he never ceases creating even
for an instant, he would realize, through the
"Presence" of God within himself, he could purify
his miscreations and thus be free from his own limi
tations.
"
'He spins a cocoon of human discord around
himself and goes to sleep within it, forgetting at least
206 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
for a time, that if he can build
it,
he can also break
through. By using the Wings of his Soul—Adoration
and Determination, he can break through his self-
created darkness. Then, he lives once more at the
Center of his Being in the "Light" and Freedom of
his "God Self."
"
'However, in the activity of you and your be
loved family, or shall
I
say my beloved family, the
cloud that has seemed to hold so much of sorrow
is
now turned inside out, and reveals its glorious,
golden lining. You have now come within the
Radiant Splendor of the "Light" from which you
will never again recede.
"
'In most cases,
if
human beings knew the won
derful things that are sometimes planned for them,
they would unknowingly prevent the approach of
this greater good. You have been invited here, not
only to join your loved ones, but to receive definite
instruction concerning the existence, use, and direc
tion of the Mighty God-Power latent within you.
When you understand how to release and control It,
anything will be possible for you.
"
'Your loved ones used the Light and Sound Rays
in communicating with you. This knowledge with
its power will be explained, and you too shall be
enabled to operate them, consciously and at will.
You feel deeply, and when that characteristic
is
con
sciously governed, there will come an awareness of
THE SECRET VALLEY 207
the Mighty God-Power that stands ready to be re
leased at any instant.
"
'You are to remain here for six weeks of training,
and then return to the outer world to use the under
standing you have received. Come again, at any time,
for you are now one of us.'
"I can never put into words what those six weeks
meant to me. To become aware of my own ability
to use the instruction and application of such wis
dom astonished me. Soon, I began to gain a confi
dence in myself that made everything much easier.
What seems so mysterious and unusual to the human
I found natural and normal to this Stupendous
'Inner Presence.'
"I had to realize that I was truly the Son of God.
As the Son of the Source of all Good, the Limitless
Wisdom-Energy obeyed my conscious direction, and
when I directed it, as does a Master, produced results
instantly. As I gained confidence in my own ability
to use the 'Great Law,' the fulfillment naturally be
came more and more rapid. I marvel yet at the Ever-
pouring Fountain of Love and Wisdom that
streamed forth from this Great Master. We love him
with a deep devotion, greater than any love that
could ever exist between parent and child, for the
Love Tie formed by the giving of Spiritual Under
standing is Eternal, and far deeper than any love
generated through human experience, no matter
208 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
how beautiful and strong it may be. He often said
to us:
"
'If you will make yourselves an Eternal Fountain
of Divine Love, pouring it forth into every place
your thought goes, you will become such a Magnet
for All Good that you will have to call for help to
dispense it. Peace and Calmness of Soul release a
power which compels obedience of the outer mind.
This must be claimed with authority. Our home
here in this Secret Valley has been used for over four
thousand years.'
"One day, after giving a remarkable discourse on
'God's Ownership,' he looked at me very intently,
and suggested we take a walk. He led the way to the
opposite side of the valley from which we had
entered. Near the south wall, and running parallel
with it from east to west, was a ridge beginning at
the ground, rising to about seven feet in height, ex
tending about two thousand feet in length, and then
descending to the ground again. As we came closer,
I saw it was a vein of white quartz. The Master Eriel
stepped to where the vein came to the ground and
kicked a piece loose with his foot. I saw it was im
mensely rich in gold. My human love for gold at
tempted to surge forth but the 'Inner Presence'
instantly checked
it,
and with
a
smile the Master
remarked:
"
'That
is
well done. Now,
I
have work to do in
THE SECRET VALLEY 209
Europe and must leave you for the present.' He
smiled, and was gone instantly. It was the first time,
he had shown the Full Dominion he possessed, and
the things he was able to do in this manner. Im
mediately, my son became visible in exactly the same
spot where Eriel had been standing the instant be
fore and laughed heartily at my surprise.
"
'Mother and I,' he said, 'can take our bodies with
us wherever we choose in the same way. Do not be
surprised. It is a Natural Law and only seems strange
and unusual because you are not using it as yet. It
really is no more extraordinary than the telephone
would have been to the people of the Middle Ages.
If they had known the "Law" of its construction,
they could have used it then, just as well as we of this
century.'
"Since that visit to my family in the Secret Valley,
I have been there seven times. The last time, I re
turned to the outer world, the Master gave me your
address which accounts for my asking you to come
here. He extends the invitation for you to return
with me."
My host suddenly realized he had been talking
several hours, and begged indulgence for taxing my
patience. I told him the experiences were so fascinat
ing, and I had been so intensely interested that time
was non-existent, so far as I was concerned. I accepted
and was deeply grateful for the Master Eriel's invi
21o UNVEILED MYSTERIES
tation to visit them, and said so frankly. A moment
later, a tall young man came into the room.
"Let me present our Brother, Fun Wey," said my
host, introducing him, and in the most perfect Eng
lish, he replied: '
"My Brother with the Heart of Light has jour
neyed far. My heart leaps in ecstasy and joy. My soul
feels your serenity and radiance." Addressing my
host directly, he continued:
"Knowing you were busy, I am here to serve you."
"It will give us great pleasure to have you break
bread with us," said my friend turning to me, and
together we passed into the dining room. Our dinner
was delicious, and when finished my host again re
sumed his conversation, relating many of his per
sonal experiences with Eriel. They were remarkable
indeed, that is speaking from the human side of our
consciousness only, but from the standpoint of our
Divinity, all was and is supremely natural.
Suddenly, a Ray of Light or rather a Tube of
Light came into the room, and from the conversa
tion, I knew it was my host's Twin Ray speaking. In
a moment, the Ray was directed to me, and he said:
"Beloved, allow me to present the Brother whom
our Master Eriel has requested I meet."
I saw his Twin Ray, and heard her as clearly as if
she stood in the room beside us. This way of com
municating is a wonderfully happy experience, and
THE SECRET VALLEY 211
it is possible to so condense "Light" as to form a tube
in which sound and vision can be conveyed. It was as
real as a searchlight.
My host insisted that I make his home mine until
the day of our departure into the mountains. We
started before daylight the seventh day after our
meeting, and it was one of the most memorable ex
periences of my Life up to that time. All he had told
me proved to be true in the minutest detail.
Our arrival at the Secret Valley was a most joyous
event, and our happiness was very great. I met my
host's Twin Ray and their son, and was then shown
over the ancient building where so many students
had received the true understanding of the Laws of
Being and attained their Eternal Freedom.
It was a marvelous sensation to stand where the
Great God-Power had been focused for so many cen
turies, and the Ascended Masters had made a retreat
for some of their work. I sat contemplating the
blessings the students had received who were privi
leged to come there, when the Master Eriel ad
dressed me:
"My Son," he began, "you are nearing wonderful
liberation. Hold close to the continuous acceptance
of your own, indwelling 'Master-Presence,' and you
will have just cause for great rejoicing." He ex
tended his right hand, and the veil between the
visible and invisible was drawn aside.
212 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
"I want you to see," he continued, "as we, who are
Ascended, the sublime and majestic activity of Our
World. Here, we continually bear witness, as Sons of
God, because there is no longer doubt, fear, or im
perfection within us."
I shall always remember the joy and privilege that
was mine during the days I spent with those wonder
ful people.
"Every day," said Eriel, "you shall witness the use
of the Light and Sound Rays that annihilate time
and space, and which mankind is destined to use in
the near future, as naturally as it now uses the tele
phone. This is one of the most stupendous activities,
the individual may learn how to direct. A Light Ray
can be drawn and controlled so it may be used as a
pencil to write upon metal or in the sky, and the
writing remain visible as long as the one directing
it desires.
"When the student is strong enough to stand
against the opinions of the world of ignorance, then
he or she is ready to bear witness to the marvels of
the individual activities of God, manifested by the
Ascended Masters.
"Until he can do this, the power in suggestion and
the radiation of doubt from others will disturb him
intermittently to such an extent, that he many times
gives up the quest for Truth. Interruption to the
steady flow of instruction is discord. Discord is the
THE SECRET VALLEY 213
wedge and subtle way, by which the sinister force on
this earth enters the outer activity of a student who
has determined to face 'The Light.'
"Such activity is very subtle because it is a feeling,
and creeps in upon one before he is really aware of its
existence. It is persistent beyond belief and the
growth is so insidious, that one does not realize what
has been done until the momentum is already under
way.
"This feeling begins as a slight doubt. A doubt
need only be felt two or three times, until it becomes
distrust. Distrust whirls a time or two in the emo
tional body, and becomes suspicion and suspicion is
self-destruction.
"Remember this my son, as you return again to
the outer world, and you will find it a safeguard that
will carry you through every experience in Life,
keeping you untouched by discord. If one sends out
suspicion, he will be suspected, for everyone has in
his world just exactly that which he puts into
it,
and
this 'Eternal Irrevocable Decree' exists throughout
the Universe. All impulses of consciousness travel
back to the central point, that sent them out, not
even an atom escapes.
"The real student of 'Light' faces 'The Light,'
sends
it
before him, sees its Enfolding Radiance
everywhere he moves, and adores 'It' constantly.
From the doubt, fear, suspicion, and ignorance of
214 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
the human mind, he turns away, and knows only
'The Light.' This is His Source— His True Self."
With these parting words, Eriel bade me farewell,
and I returned to the daily routine of my outer life.
CHAPTER VIII
God's Omnipresent Power
THE
following day, I received a communica
tion, through which I became engaged in a
business activity that required all my time
and attention. The mere anticipation of it gave me
great joy, and I entered in with much enthusiasm.
There came a refreshing, quickening sense, a thing
I had never before known in my business experience.
In the course of its progress, I came into close per
sonal contact with a man of very dominating char
acter. His entire attitude in business was to gain his
desire by force, if intrigue failed or he was opposed
in any way.
He believed only in the power of his own intellect
and human will, and had neither knowledge of nor
faith in anything else. At no time, did he hesitate
to crush or ruin persons or things that stood in the
way of his success, and used all means to gain his own
selfish ends.
I had met him some three years before the follow
ing experience took place and at that time had felt
almost helpless in his presence, so overpowering was
the feeling of domination he continually sent out.
Yet, I knew in spite of my own reaction to him that
216 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
his control over others was only force, focused into
the outer activity. I was somewhat disturbed, as I
realized I would have to associate with him. Im
mediately, I sought a way to deal with him by appli
cation of the God-Law, when the "Inner Voice" said
to me clearly:
"Why not let the 'Mighty God Within' take full
charge and handle this condition? That 'Inner-
Power' knows no domination, and is always in
vincible."
I was immensely grateful, and completely released
everything into "Its" management. I met this man
with two others, and agreed to go with them to in
spect a mining property in a distant state. I felt it
to be a very valuable one. The owner was an elderly
lady whose good husband had passed on, by an ac
cident in the mine some months before.
He had left things in a precarious condition, and
our dominating friend had determined to buy the
mine at his own price—not an honest one. After a
long trip by auto, we reached our destination about
two o'clock the second day. We met the owner whom
I realized was a blessed soul— true and honorable.
Then and there, I took the determined stand that
she should have a square deal, and receive full value
for the property. She invited us to a lovely luncheon,
and we proceeded to examine the mine. We went
through the workings, tunnels, drifts, shafts and
GOD'S OMNIPRESENT POWER 217
stopings. The more I watched, the more certain I
became that something was wrong. The very atmos
phere seemed to breathe it to me.
I was certain a rich strike had been made which
had not been reported to the owner. I somehow
knew the buyer had secretly placed one of the work
men on duty to watch for such an activity and, that
during the weeks of watching, he had gained the
confidence of the superintendent. I realized at heart
the superintendent was a good man, but not
awakened— spiritually speaking.
As we stood talking to him, my God Self disclosed
fully what had occurred. A short time previously, as
these two were on their inspection of the work, they
had come to a spot where the shots had broken into
the face of a tunnel, leading directly into the heart
of the mountain. The blast had broken into a very
rich vein of gold-bearing quartz. The superintend
ent was about to rush out, and report it to the owner,
when the spying workman remarked:
"Wait! I know the man who is going to buy this
mine. If you want to continue in your present posi
tion, don't mention that strike. I'll see to it you not
only stay here, as superintendent, but there'll be five
thousand in it for you. The old lady'll get enough to
keep her anyway." The superintendent fearing the
loss of his position had agreed.
In our examination of the mine, we came to the
218 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
end of the main tunnel, and I felt strongly this was
the place the rich strike had been made. It had been
cleverly covered up and disguised as a loose forma
tion where it was dangerous to work. Such was the
report they had made to the woman who owned the
mine. As I stood at this place talking with the others,
my Inner Sight was opened, and I saw all that had
taken place— the rich strike, the covering of
it,
the
offer to the superintendent, and his acceptance.
I
was grateful to have my feeling verified but knew
I
must wait. We returned to the owner's residence and
negotiations began. The buyer opened the subject
by saying:
"Mrs. Atherton, what do you expect for this prop
erty?"
"I am holding
it
at two hundred and fifty thousand
dollars," she replied courteously and gently.
"Absurd!" he shouted, "preposterous, ridiculous.
It
is
not worth half that amount." He carried on in
this vein for some few moments, blustering as was his
habit.
It
had worked many times before, and he was
still following the old line of procedure. He argued
and stormed, and ended by saying:
"Mrs. Atherton, you are in
a
position where you
must sell,
I
will be generous and give you
a
hundred
and fifty thousand."
"I will consider it," she replied, so cowed by his
attitude of domination and bluster that she began to
GOD'S OMNIPRESENT POWER 219
accept his ideas, and give in to his arrogant im
pudence. He saw her waver and immediately began
to high pressure the whole situation.
"I cannot wait," he went on, "my time is valuable.
You must decide at once or the deal is off."
He drew the papers from his pocket and placed
them on the table. Mrs. Atherton looked about help
lessly, and I shook my head "no" to her but she did
not see me. The contract lay open, and she stepped
across the room taking a chair at the table, preparing
to sign. I knew, if she were to be protected, I must
act at once, and going to where she sat, I addressed
our dominating friend.
"Just a moment," I said, "you will pay this dear
lady what her mine is worth or you are not going to
get it." He turned his wrath upon me with several
very pungent invectives and attempted the same
tactics as usual.
"I'd like to know who is going to prevent me hav
ing the mine at my price?" he retorted. I felt a surge
of the Mighty God-Power Within come forth like an
avalanche, keeping me unaffected by his tirade of
vindictiveness, and I replied:
"God will prevent you."
With that answer, he burst out laughing. He car
ried on boisterously, cynically, insultingly. I waited
calmly.
"You fool," he began again in another tirade of
220 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
anger, "you prate about God. Not you nor God nor
anything can stop me. I get what I go after, and I
get it regardless. No one has ever stopped me yet."
His arrogance seemed to have no limit, and he re
vealed himself, mind and body, as the victim of his
emotions. His reason was unable to function, as is
always the case under any uncontrolled feeling or
it would have warned him to go no further with his
insults.
I felt the expansion of the God-Power again. This
time it came stronger and stronger until in a tone
like a clarion, the Mighty Inner Voice of my God
Self revealed the Truth of the whole transaction and
the deception at the mine.
"Mrs. Atherton," I said, "there has been gross de
ceit practiced upon you. Your workmen made a rich
strike. This man had a spy among them who has
bribed your superintendent to remain silent con
cerning it." The superintendent and the others in
the room went white and speechless, as my Inner
Self continued to expose their treachery. The pros
pective buyer seemed equal to any emergency, and
interrupting me in his wild anger, shouted:
"You lie. I'll brain you for such interference." He
lifted his steel cane and as I raised my hand to seize
it, a White Flame suddenly shot forth flashing full
in his face. He dropped to the floor as if struck by
lightning. Then My Mighty God Self spoke again
GOD'S OMNIPRESENT POWER 221
with all authority of eternity—majestic, powerful:
"Let no one in this room move until given per
mission!" My outer-self, no longer me but "God in
Action," stepped to where the man lay, and went on:
"Great Soul in this man, I speak to you! Too long
have you been held prisoner by his dominating, per
sonal self. Come forth now! Take command of his
mind and body! Right the many deceptions he has
practiced in the present life. Within the hour, this
strong, outer human creation of discord and injus
tice which he has built up shall be consumed, and
never again shall it deceive or humanly dominate
another of God's children. To the outer-self, I say,
Awaken! in peace, love, kindliness, generosity and
good will to all that lives."
Slowly, the color began to come back into the
man's face, and he opened his eyes in strange be
wilderment. "God in me"—still in charge, took him
gently by the hand and putting an arm under his
shoulder helped him to a large, easy chair. Again,
It commanded:
"My Brother! Look at me." As he raised his eyes
to mine, a tremor passed over his body, and in a voice
scarcely audible, said: "Yes, I have seen. I under
stand how wrong I have been. God forgive me." He
dropped his head in his hands and hid his face, silent
and ashamed. Tears began to drop through his fin
gers and he wept like a child.
222 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
"You will pay this dear lady, one million dollars,"
My God Self continued, "and give her a ten per cent
interest in the mine also for in the strike recently
made is at least ten million in gold ore." With deep
humility and a strange sweetness, he answered:
"Let it be done now." He requested his men this
time, instead of ordering them as was his former
habit, to draw up the papers as had been directed.
Mrs. Atherton and he both signed, completing the
transaction.
I turned to the others in the room, and realized
from the expression on their faces, all of them had
been so lifted in consciousness they had seen beyond
the human veil, each of them saying:
"Never, so help me God, will I ever attempt to
deceive or do wrong to my fellow man again." They
had been raised to fully recognize and accept the God
Self within everyone.
It was late afternoon, when this occurrence took
place. Mrs. Atherton extended a cordial invitation
to remain as her guests overnight, and accompany
her to Phoenix in the morning, for the recording of
the papers for the sale. After dinner that night, we
gathered in the big living room before a large open
fireplace. Everyone sincerely sought more under
standing of the Great Cosmic Laws of Life.
They asked, how it happened I had come into this
kind of knowledge, and I told them of the Master,
GOD'S OMNIPRESENT POWER 223
Saint Germain, and the way I had met him. I related
some of my experiences on Mount Shasta, and how
in the course of our conversation in regard to the
Great Cosmic Law, he had said:
"My Son, the Great Cosmic Law does not discrim
inate any more than does the multiplication table,
if one makes a mistake in its application, or electric
ity, when one, who is ignorant of the Law governing
its use, tries to direct its force without knowledge of
the way to control it.
"The Great Immutable Decrees, which forever
keep order in the Infinite Realm of manifested Life,
are all based upon the 'One Great Principle of Crea
tion'— LOVE. That is the Heart— the Source of All,
and the very Hub upon which existence in form
takes place.
"Love is Harmony and without it in the beginning
of a form, that form could not come into existence at
all. Love is the cohesive Power of the Universe and
without
it,
a
Universe could not be.
"In your scientific world, Love expresses itself, as
the attractive force between the electrons. It
is
the
directive Intelligence which Wills them into form,
the Power which keeps them whirling around
a
cen
tral core, and the Breath within the core that draws
them to it. The same thing
is
true of each vortex of
force everywhere in creation.
"A central core and the electrons whirling around
224 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
it form an atom. This core of Love is to the atom what
the magnetic pole is to the earth and what the spine
is to the human body. Without a central core or
Heart Center, there is only the unformed, Universal
Light—the electrons filling Infinity and whirling
around the Great Central Sun.
"The electron is Pure Spirit or 'Light' of God. It
remains forever Uncontaminated and Perfect. It is
Eternally Self-Sustained, Indestructible, Self-Lumi-
nous and Intelligent. If it were not, it could not and
would not obey 'The Law'— the directing activity of
Love. It is Immortal, Ever-Pure, Intelligent Light-
Energy, and the only Real, True Substance out of
which everything in the Universe is made— The
Eternally, Perfect 'Life-Essence' of God.
"Interstellar space is filled with this pure 'Light-
Essence.' It is not dark and in chaos, as has been the
ignorant, limited concept of puny, human intellects.
This Great Sea of Universal Light that exists every
where throughout Infinity is constantly being drawn
into form, and given a quality of one kind or another,
according to the way the electrons are held around a
central point or core, by Love.
"The number of electrons which combine with
each other in a specific atom is the result of, and deter
mined, by conscious thought. The rate at which they
whirl around the central core is the result of, and de
termined by, feeling. The intensity of the drawing
GOD'S OMNIPRESENT POWER 225
and whirling motion within the central core is the
'Breath of God' and therefore, the most concentrated
activity of Divine Love. Speaking in scientific terms,
it would be called centripetal force. These are the
determining factors which make the quality of an
atom.
"Thus, you will see the atom is an entity—a living,
breathing thing—created or brought into existence
by the Breath, the Love of God, through the Will of
Self-Conscious Intelligence. In this way, the 'Word
is made flesh.' The machinery that Self-Conscious
Intelligence uses to accomplish this manifestation of
its Being is thought and feeling.
"Destructive thought and discordant feeling so re
arrange the ratio and rate of speed of the electrons
within the atom, that the duration of the Breath of
God within the pole is changed. The duration of
the Breath is decreed by the Will of the Conscious
ness using that particular kind of atom. If that Con
scious Directing Will is withdrawn, the electrons lose
their polarity and fly apart seeking their way back
intelligently mind you to the 'Great Central Sun,'
re-polarizing themselves. There, they receive Love
only, the Breath of God is never-ending, and Order—
the First Law, is eternally maintained.
"Some scientists have claimed and taught that
planets collide in space. No such thing is possible. To
do so would be to throw the entire Plan of Crea
226 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
tion into chaos. It really is fortunate indeed that the
'Mighty Laws of God' are not limited to the opin
ions of some of the children of earth. It does not
matter what any scientist— mundane or otherwise
thinks, God-Creation is ever moving forward and
expressing more and more Perfection.
"The constructive thought and harmonious feel
ing within a human mind and body are the activities
of Love and Order. These permit the Perfect Ratio
and Speed of the electrons within the atom to remain
permanent, and thus, they stay polarized at their
particular point in the Universe, as long as the dura
tion of the Breath of God within their core is held
steady by the Will of the Directing, Self-Conscious
Intelligence using the body in which they exist. In
this way, the quality of Perfection and the main
tenance of Life in a human body is always under the
conscious control of the Will of the individual oc
cupying it. The Will of the individual is supreme
over his temple and even in cases of accident, no one
leaves his body-temple until he wills to do so. Very
often pain in the body, fear, uncertainty, and many
other things influence the personality to change its
decisions, concerning what it has willed in the past
but everything that happens to the body is and will
always be under the control of the individual's free
will.
"To understand the above explanation concern
GOD'S OMNIPRESENT POWER 227
ing the electron and the conscious control the indi
vidual has, through his thought and feeling, to
govern the atomic structure of his own body, is to
understand the One Principle governing form
throughout Infinity. When man will make the effort
to prove this to himself, or within his own atomic
flesh-body, he will then proceed to master himself.
When he has done that all else in the Universe is his
willing co-worker to accomplish whatsoever he wills
through Love.
"Whoever makes himself willingly obedient unto
the 'Law of Love,' has Perfection in his mind and
world permanently maintained. Unto him and him
alone does All Authority and Mastery belong. He
only has the right to rule because he has first learned
to obey. When he has obtained obedience from the
atomic structure within his own mind and body all
atomic structure outside of his mind and body will
obey him also.
"Thus, mankind through thought and feeling has
the power—each individual within himself— to rise
to the highest or sink to the lowest. Each one alone
determines his own pathway of experience. By con
scious control of his attention, as to what he allows
his mind to accept, he can walk and talk with God—
Face to Face— or looking away from God, become
lower than the animals, sinking his human con
sciousness into oblivion. In the latter case, the God
228 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
Flame Within him then withdraws from its human
habitation. After aeons of time, it tries a human jour
ney once again into the world of physical matter,
until final victory is accomplished consciously and
of its own Free Will."
I told them of the limitless possibilities which
Saint Germain had shown me were before mankind
for accomplishment, whenever it is willing to accept
the 'Great God Presence' within every individual as
the directing and accomplishing power. The buyer
of the mine asked me why I used the word acceptance
—so often, and I recalled the words Saint Germain
had used in explaining it to me, for he said:
"Even in the outer activity of your Life, if you
purchase a thing or are offered something marvelous
and perfect, if you do not accept
it,
it
would be im
possible for you to use, or have the benefit from it.
So
it
is
with the 'Great God Presence' within us.
Unless, we accept that our Life
is
God-Life—and that
all power and energy we have with which to do any
thing
is
God-Power, and God-Energy— how can we
have GOD-Qualities and accomplishment in our
world?
"As Sons of God, we are commanded to choose
whom we shall serve, the Mighty 'Presence' of God
Within us—or the outer human self. The gratifica
tion of the outer human appetites and sense demands
has one and only one result, misery and destruction.
GOD'S OMNIPRESENT POWER 229
"All Constructive Desire is really the God Self
Within pushing Perfection forward into the use and
enjoyment of the outer-self. The Great Energy of
Life is flowing through us constantly. If we direct It
to constructive accomplishment It brings joy and
happiness. If directed to sense gratification, there
cannot be anything but misery as a result because it
is all the action of Law— an Impersonal Life-Energy.
"Keep before the outer activity of your mind the
constant reminder that you are 'Life'—'God in
Action' in you and your world. The personal self is
continually claiming things and power of its own
when the very Energy by which it exists is loaned it
by the God Self. The outer personal human activity
does not even own its skin. The very atoms of its
body are loaned to it by the 'Supreme God Presence'
from the Great Sea of Universal Substance.
"Train yourself to return all power and authority
to the 'Great Glorious God Flame' which is your
'Real Self and the 'Source' from which you have
always received every good thing." We talked until
two o'clock in the morning, and then, I had to sug
gest we retire. No one wanted to sleep but I said to
them:
"You will sleep in the arms of God," and the next
morning, they were surprised to realize how quickly
they had dropped off to sleep.
We were up at seven, and on our way to Phoenix.
230 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
The recording was completed, and I explained I
must leave as my work with them was finished for
the time being. They were all deeply grateful and
anxious to know more. I promised to keep in touch
with them and give further help, as the Master Saint
Germain should direct. As I was leaving, the buyer
of the mine turned to me, and said:
"I don't care what anyone thinks of me, I want to
embrace you and thank you from the bottom of my
heart for saving me from the ruin of my outer-self,
and for revealing the 'Great Light.'
"
I bowed my
head in deep humility, and replied:
"Thank God. I am but the channel. God alone is
the Great 'Presence' and Power that does all things
well." Mrs. Atherton turned to me and expressed her
feeling:
"I do praise and thank the God in you for the
Mighty Protecting 'Presence,' and never in my Life
shall I cease to thank God and you for the Light this
experience has brought us all.
"I feel certain, we shall all meet again," I replied,
and bidding everyone, good-by, turned my face once
more toward Mount Shasta, arriving at my lodge the
evening of the second day.
Two weeks later, I felt a strong impulse to make
one more trip to my trysting place with the Master,
Saint Germain. I started at four in the morning, and
reached the edge of the dense timber about nine.
GOD'S OMNIPRESENT POWER 231
The plaintive cry of my panther friend came to
my ears before I had gone twenty paces into the
woods. I answered quickly. In a moment it came
bounding to my side with all the welcome of an old
time friend, and we proceeded onward to our
meeting-place.
I noticed the panther was very restless, and acted,
as if laboring under some inner agitation. This was
most unusual for it had always been very quiet, when
in my presence. I patted and stroked the beautiful
head but it made no difference. I sat down and we ate
lunch.
"Come on old boy," I said as we finished, "let's go
for a walk." It gave me a long steady look, the most
pathetic expression I have ever seen. I could not
understand it.
We had gone some distance, when we came to a
cliff about fifteen feet high at the top of which hung
a projecting rock. Something caused me to look at
the panther. The expression in its eyes was wild and
fierce. I sensed a sort of tension in the atmosphere but
did not realize what it was. I walked on a few paces
farther, and felt a chill pass over me. Looking up
suddenly, I saw a mountain lion crouched, ready to
spring. The next instant, it leaped toward me. I threw
myself against the cliff and the lion landed beyond
where I had stood. Like a flash of lightning the pan
ther sprang and the two locked in mortal combat.
232 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
No words can describe the terror of the struggle
that followed. They screamed, rolled, tore, and
clawed each other. The lion was considerably heavier,
and it seemed for a time, as if it would gain the ad
vantage. However, the panther was the faster mov
ing of the two, and finally broke away. There was
just an instant's pause until it saw a chance, and then
with one spring landed on the lion's back, and
fastened its teeth just behind the ears.
The panther's grip was like steel, and after a few
seconds of rolling and twisting, the lion's struggles
grew weaker. Finally they ceased altogether. The
panther came reeling toward me, its side terribly
torn. It looked up at me, all the fierceness gone from
its eyes— and its energy ebbing fast. There passed an
expression of contentment over the face, and sud
denly, giving a plaintive cry, it fell over dead at my
feet.
I stood motionless, and wept silently at the loss of
my friend, for I had become almost as attached to
it as to a human companion. The next instant, I
looked up, and beside me stood Saint Germain.
"My Beloved Brother, be not sad or dismayed," he
said, "your contact with the panther had so
quickened its consciousness that it could no longer
remain in that present body, and the Great Cosmic
Law demanded from it some service to you. This it
gave in love by saving your life. All is truly well."
GOD'S OMNIPRESENT POWER 233
He touched the thumb of his right hand to my fore
head.
"Be at peace," he continued, as the feeling of grief
left me, and I felt completely relieved. "The Great
Cosmic Law is unerring. We cannot receive without
giving, and we cannot give without receiving. Thus,
the Great Balance of Life is maintained.
"I congratulate you sincerely on the service
rendered at the mine, and your serenity during the
occurrence. All concerned with that transaction will
become great helpers to humanity.
"Soon, you will be called upon to render a far
greater service than any you have given so far. In
it,
remember always
it
is
God's Power and Intelli
gence acting, and your mind and body only the
channel. Until you meet with this experience, medi
tate constantly upon the 'Limitless Power of God'
which can express through you at any time."
I
asked him what the Ascended Master's attitude
is
in regard to the many channels through whom par
tial Truth
is
given forth, and he replied:
"There are many sincere channels. Some have
more understanding than others. All are God's chil
dren serving to the best of their ability with the
understanding they have at present. We may not
judge anyone, but we must know and see only God,
expressing in all. Our endeavor
is
to bless all activity
wherever
it
is. We see the 'Inner Light' radiating
234 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
through such activities, and this makes it impossible
for us to be mistaken, as to whether they are or are
not giving forth truth.
"It is the same with individuals. Those, who offer
their service in the Name of the Ascended Jesus
Christ, will always receive more than ordinary sus
taining power." We had walked some distance, when
he said:
"Come, I will accompany you home. Place your
arm about my shoulder." I did so and felt my body
lifted from the ground. In a few moments more, I
was in my room at the lodge with Saint Germain
standing beside me smiling at my surprise.
"Meet me in seven days," he said, "at our ap
pointed place, for then we will finish our work in
this part of the country." He smiled, bowed gra
ciously, and slowly faded from sight. The last thing
that remained visible, as he gradually disappeared,
were his marvelous, beautiful eyes smiling back at
me.
As I meditated each day upon the "Great God
Presence Within," for my coming service, I realized
more and more how important it is to keep the At
tention focused upon "That Presence Only"—no
matter what appearances seem to indicate— in order
to keep any outer condition from affecting me. In
one of Saint Germain's conversations, he had stressed
particularly the all importance of keeping my outer
GOD'S OMNIPRESENT POWER 235
self harmonious, and in regard to this had said:
"My Son, you cannot realize how very great is the
necessity for harmony in the outer-self, if the fulness
of the Inner Perfection and Power is to be expressed
in your outer life. The importance of keeping a feel
ing of peace, Love, and serenity in the personal self
cannot be emphasized too strongly, for when this is
done the "Mighty God Presence Within" can act—
without limit— in an instant.
"The continual outpouring of a feeling of Peace
and Divine Love to every person and everything un
conditionally, no matter whether you think it be
deserved or not, is the Magic Key that unlocks the
door and releases instantly this tremendous 'Inner
God-Power.' Fortunate indeed is he who has learned
this 'Law' for he then seeks to BE all Peace and
Love. Without It humanity has nothing good, and
with It they have all things 'Perfect.' Harmony is
the Keynote, the 'One Great Law of Life.' Upon It
rests all Perfect Manifestation and without It all
form disintegrates and returns into the Great Sea of
Universal Light."
The following seven days, I spent much time in
meditation. I felt a greater and greater peace grow
ing within me until by the sixth day, it seemed
as if my entire consciousness were like a great calm
sea.
On the morning of the seventh day, I left my lodge
236 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
at four o'clock and reached our meeting place at ten-
thirty. I sat down on a log to wait with a feeling of
wonderful exhilaration, which I knew to be the re
sult of my meditation. I was so deep within the con
templation of my God Self, I did not hear anyone
approaching until a voice spoke to me.
I looked up, and saw an old man with white hair
and beard, whom I thought at first sight, was an old
prospector, although his clothing was too clean for
that occupation. As he came up to me and held out
his hand, that too confirmed my feeling—he was not
a laboring man. We exchanged greetings, chatted for
a few moments on generalities, then he turned to me,
and said:
"My friend, I would like to tell you a story. It
won't take long. I haven't told it to anyone for a long
time. I would like to try once more."
By that time, I began to have a feeling of intense
interest. It occurred to me he might be thirsty, and as
I reached for a cup to get him a drink, from the
spring by which we stood, a crystal cup formed
within my hand, like the one Saint Germain had
held out to me several times. The old man looked
up and with eyes shining and excited, almost
shouted:
"It is he! It is he!"
I did not know what to do, so I insisted he drink.
As I looked within the cup, I saw it was filled with
GOD'S OMNIPRESENT POWER 237
the same clear, sparkling liquid the Master had given
me. The old man grasped it eagerly, and, with an
intense expression of the deepest gratitude I have
ever seen, drank the contents. He immediately be
came very calm and quiet, but with it all a deep, in
tense sincerity. I asked him again to tell me the story,
and he began by saying:
"My father was a British officer stationed in the
Punjab of India where we made our home. When I
was sixteen, he financed a friend who went to South
Africa to try his luck in the diamond mines, but my
father never heard from him afterward.
"The year I was twenty, a tall, handsome stranger,
a man of great wisdom, visited my father at our
home. He had come to bring a message from father's
friend.
"
'I bring you news,' he explained, 'from the
friend whom you financed four years ago. He met
with great success on that venture, in fact became
very wealthy. He has recently passed on at the mines,
and left no relatives. His entire fortune has been left
to you and in case of your passing, it is to go to your
son. If you desire, I will take charge of the matter
and have it transferred at once.'
"
'I cannot leave India at the present time,' my
father replied, 'for I am on government duty here. I
appreciate greatly your offer to take care of the mat
ter for me.' I was standing near-by during their con
238 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
versation, and when they had completed arrange
ments, the stranger turned to me.
"
'My son,' he said, 'when you find the man who
will offer you a crystal cup of sparkling liquid you
will have met the one— who can assist you in raising
the body. I cannot tell you more than this, except
that you will find him on a great mountain in North
America. This may seem vague to you now but it is
all I can say.'
"The stranger left, and a month later my father,
who had ridden out to adjust certain government
matters with the natives was shot, and passed on be
fore he could be brought home. I was an only son,
and after another month, mother and I prepared for
our return to England. Just before we left, the same
stranger came again, and said, he was ready to trans
fer father's fortune to me. I explained father had
been shot.
" 'Yes,' the stranger replied, 'when I left two
months ago, I knew your father would pass on before
my return. I have arranged for the fortune to be
transferred to you, or rather to the Bank of Eng
land for you. Here is money you may wish to use on
the journey home, also the papers of transfer, and the
credentials you will need at the bank. Present them,
and you will receive custody of your wealth. Much
of it is in diamonds of the first quality.' I thanked
him, and offered to pay for his services but he replied:
GOD'S OMNIPRESENT POWER 239
"
'Your kind intent is greatly appreciated but that
is already adjusted. I will be happy to accompany
you to the steamer at Bombay.'
"The trip revealed to me his great wisdom and be
side him I felt like an infant. I know now that he en
veloped me in a Radiation which has stayed with me
throughout the years. He arranged for transporta
tion, accompanied us to the boat, and his last words
to me were:
"
'Remember— the "Crystal Cup." Seek and you
shall find.'
"After a most wonderful voyage, we arrived at
Southampton, went on to London, and presented my
credentials to the Bank of England. The official to
whom I presented them remarked:
"
'Yes, we were expecting you today. Here are your
bank and check books.'
"I looked at them to see how much my fortune
amounted to and was amazed to learn a hundred
thousand pounds had been placed to my credit. Five
years later, my mother passed on. I transferred one
half of my wealth to a bank in New York and began
the search for 'the man with the Crystal Cup.'
"I can never repeat the disappointments, the trials,
the sorrow I have been through but in the face of
everything, somehow I could never give up. The
thing which seems so strange to me
is,
while
I
have
grown old in outer appearance, my energy and
240 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
strength are as great as ever, sometimes I think
greater, than in my fullest youth.
"In years, I am seventy. Today, I just wanted to
follow this trail, and praise God I have found you.
My desire was so great, it was almost irresistible."
"But my good man," I asked, "what am I to do for
you?"
"You will know," he replied, "for I know I have
made no mistake. In the heart of this majestic moun
tain is a Great Power. I feel it. Ask God to show you
what to do."
Suddenly, I felt the "Mighty God-Power" surging
forth so strong, it almost lifted me from the ground.
Making the sign Saint Germain had taught me, I
called to God for "Light" and raising my hand in
salutation said:
"Mighty God in man and the Universe! We seek
Thy Light! We seek Thy Wisdom! We seek Thy
Power! Let Thy Will be done in and for this, My
Brother, who has sought and found me to do for him
I know not what. Thou knowest! Manifest Thy Will
through my mind and body, and let whatever is to
be done for this Brother— Thy Son— come forth."
As my hand came down, it held the Crystal Cup
filled with "Living Liquid-Light." I offered it to
him, and my Mighty God Self spoke again.
"Drink without fear. Thy search is ended."
He drank the contents without a moment's hesita
GOD'S OMNIPRESENT POWER 241
tion. I stepped forward quickly and took both his
hands in mine. Slowly and steadily every vestige of
age disappeared from him, and the God in me con
tinued:
"Behold! Thou art forever free from all earthly
limitation. Ascend now unto the 'Great Host of
Light' who await Thee."
Very slowly, he began to rise from the ground, and
as he did so, his human garments disappeared, and
he became clothed in raiment of glistening white. I
let go his hands. Then in a voice of deepest Love,
he said:
"I shall return to thee, Beloved Brother. Well
shalt thou be repaid for this Transcendent Service.
Thou wert the only one through whom this could be
done for me. Some day, thou shalt see why," and
with a happy smile, he disappeared on a Radiant
Pathway of "Light."
As the Mighty God-Power Within me receded, I
was so astounded, I fell on my knees and offered the
deepest prayer of my Life in grateful humility and
praise for the privilege of giving such service.
I rose and the Master Saint Germain received me
into his wondrous embrace.
"My Beloved Brother!" he said, "I am greatly
pleased. Noble and faithful was your attendance
upon the Great God Within you. Beautifully did
you recive your Mighty 'God in Action.' I do indeed
242 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
congratulate you. You will ever be held within Our
Embrace, even though outwardly you may not
always be aware of it.
"You have become a worthy 'Messenger' of the
Great White Brotherhood and the Ascended Host.
Hold close to your Mighty God Self. Thus, you will
ever be ready for service wherever and for whatever
is required. My Love enfolds you until we meet
again. I will keep you informed."
Slowly, I wended my way back to the lodge, every
step praise and gratitude to the "One Mighty God"
that molds us all into "Eternal Perfection."
CHAPTER IX
Venus Visits the Royal Teton
MANY
weeks had passed, and the morning
of December thirty-first, nineteen hun
dred thirty, came and with it— the Master,
Saint Germain.
"Be ready at seven o'clock tonight," he instructed,
"and I will call for you. Focus your attention as
much as possible on the Glory of God Within your
self, that you may receive the full benefit intended on
this Divine Occasion. Remember your Twin Ray
and son, for the three of you will be honored guests
of the Brotherhood of the Royal Teton at their New
Year Assembly tonight."
I spent the remainder of the day in deep medita
tion. He arrived at seven o'clock and as I had already
placed my physical body in bed I stepped forth in
the one he had prepared for me.
"Tonight," he continued, "an experiment is to
be tried which has not been accomplished for over
seventy thousand years. We feel perfectly confident
of success on this occasion, as all are now well pre
pared. Come."
We must have traveled at great speed, although
I did not realize
it,
and soon stood on the apex of
243
244 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
the Royal Teton, where the heavy covering of snow
made it glisten in the moonlight like millions of
diamonds. As we approached the entrance to the
tube, I noticed a clearing around it for a radius of
at least a hundred feet. As we stepped within
it,
the
atmosphere felt warm and comfortable. We passed
on through the entrance which had been opened for
those attending the New Year celebration.
Saint Germain and
I
entered the great audience
chamber, and met Lotus and our son, who had al
ready arrived with their escort, Amen Bey. Our joy
on this occasion was very great, for we had not been
together on the physical plane for some two years,
and during that time, while working out of the body,
each had been occupied with his own individual
activities, which necessitated our being in different
channels at the Inner levels.
The great room was brilliantly lighted, and the
glorious fragrance of roses and lotus blossoms filled
the air. The sweetest, most delightful music floated
in from everywhere. Many had already come and
others were arriving every few moments.
We noticed
a
large object, covered with
a
golden
cloth, had been placed in the center of the room, but
as no explanation was offered concerning
it,
we re
mained silent. Saint Germain presented us to the
guests, and then led the way into
a
room filled with
rare musical instruments. We saw
a
great pipe organ
VENUS VISITS THE ROYAL TETON 245
and four harps made of a substance like pearl, with
posts of gold; the sounding boards and upper parts
being constructed of white metal. The high strings
on the harps were silver wound, the bass ones gold
and the material of which they were made gave forth
a tone that combined the sounds produced by metal,
wood and the human voice. The tone of these instru
ments can only be known by being heard, for they
were different from anything which has ever been
used in the outer world of music in the West. The
sound produced by this unusual material more
nearly resembles some of the wonderful tones of the
esraj, an instrument used in India.
We saw four violins, also made of a substance that
looked like pearl, but the resonance is far beyond
that of any known wood. The strings were wound
with both gold and silver and produced a beauty of
tone almost beyond description. We heard all these
instruments played, later that evening.
Returning to the Great Audience Hall, Saint Ger
main showed Lotus and our son the beautiful por
traits which had been recently transferred from the
temple of Mitla in Oaxaca, Mexico. He escorted
them through the record room where they were
shown the evidence of my former observations with
him.
For the work being done during this New Year
celebration, all members of the Royal Teton were
246 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
clothed in plain golden robes of gorgeous material
with the emblem of the Brotherhood on the left
breast, embroidered so it looked like dark blue
velvet, the same shade as the great panel that formed
the Cosmic Mirror.
There were seventy men, thirty-five ladies, and
the Presiding Master, Lanto, who is the Blessed
Brother in charge of this Retreat. When all had as
sembled who belonged to this branch, he stepped
forward and addressed them saying:
"It is now eleven o'clock and time for our medita
tion. Tonight, let us pour out adoration unto the
'Great Light,' feel at 'One' with our own Divinity
for thirty minutes, and during the following thirty
minutes know the 'Oneness' of Venus with our earth.
All take their accustomed stations, and form an
elliptic in the center of the room."
For one hour, it seemed as though a hundred and
six golden figures were united in one breath so com
pletely were they in unison. At the close of the medi
tation a joyous burst of music filled the immense
hall, and Lanto stepped before the Great Mirror.
He extended his hands and a tremendous blaze
of "Light" flashed forth upon
it,
revealing
a
group
of people far in the distance surrounded by golden,
rose, and violet "Light," dazzling in its beauty and
radiance. They drew nearer, and the same glorious,
wondrous colors filled the great audience chamber—
VENUS VISITS THE ROYAL TETON 247
giving everyone a tremendous feeling of uplift and
power.
Presently, twelve Guests from Venus stood in our
midst, robed in white, scintillating garments, sur
passing all power of description. There were seven
gentlemen and five ladies, all extremely handsome.
Six of the men were at least six feet four inches in
height, the seventh fully two inches taller than the
rest. The ladies were about five feet ten. All had
light brown hair with the exception of the Tall Mas
ter and his was a glorious pure gold. Their brilliant,
piercing, violet-blue eyes were beautiful and fas
cinating.
The Tall Master gave the salutation of the East,
touching his heart and forehead with the finger tips
of his right hand and bowed low before Lanto. The
others also came forward, greeted him, and were
presented to those assembled. Lanto gave a brief ad
dress of welcome, only the following part of which
is permitted to be recorded:
"In the 'Presence' of the One Supreme God and
those of the 'Great White Brotherhood' assembled
here, these twelve Guests from Venus are made
'Members of the Brotherhood of the Royal Teton.'
"
The Tall Master was made Presiding Master for
the evening. He acknowledged the welcome, stepped
to the center of the room, and caused the golden
cloth to be removed from the objects it covered.
248 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
Lo! before us stood the three crystal caskets still
containing the sustained bodies of Lotus, our son,
and myself. They looked as if the forms had just gone
to sleep, glowing with perfect health. The Presiding
Master turned to us and said:
"Are you ready?" and we three answered, in the
affirmative.
"Then, take your places by the containers," he
directed.
We obeyed and immediately a Marvelous Radi
ance gathered and drew close around the bodies and
ourselves, the intensity increasing rapidly until we
must have been invisible to the outer sight. In a few
moments the Radiance diminished and to our
amazement the caskets were empty. We stood there
clothed in those bodies we had laid aside so long ago,
which had been sustained and purified by the "Flame
of Life" during these many centuries.
The transformation was amazing and the feeling
cannot be described, for we were as much astonished
as is the reader. However, the human side of anyone,
even at its best, knows so little of the tremendous
Wonders existing everywhere around us all the time,
and the Infinite Possibilities within every plane of
Life that all things are possible, and the closer we
live in Love and recognition of our Divinity, the
more of these Wonders throughout Creation will be
revealed in our individual lives.
VENUS VISITS THE ROYAL TETON 249
The experiment had proved a success and, as we
moved about among the Brothers and Sisters, all con
gratulated the Master and ourselves upon the accom
plishment. They greatly rejoiced that so strange an
experiment had become a mighty Truth, many com
menting upon how much those bodies resembled the
ones of the Visitors from Venus.
The crystal caskets were then removed to their
room, and the wonderful musical instruments
brought into the audience chamber. Saint Germain
played the first number on the great organ, a com
position he called "Hearts of the Future." It seemed
to me the most delicate, colorful, yet powerful music
that ever came from an organ on earth. While he
played, the most beautiful colors, gorgeous past de
scription, poured through the atmosphere of the
enormous room.
A group played the next number. The Master Saint
Germain at the organ, three of the Lady Masters from
Venus, and Lotus played four harps, two of the
Brothers from Venus, our son, and I played four
violins. When all were in readiness the words "Souls
in Ecstasy" flashed out above the organ, as Saint
Germain played the prelude. All entered deeply into
the fulness and joy of that marvelous music. The
volume and power swelled into such magnitude, it
seemed as though the beauty and glory of that joy
must send forth enough God-Consciousness to lift
85o UNVEILED MYSTERIES
all mankind, yes, even the earth itself, into Everlast
ing Perfection.
There were four more numbers played with the
same tremendous power to lift and harmonize
everywhere until we felt, as if the very mountain
would float away. At the close of the music, the in
struments were returned to their room, and the Pre
siding Master seated all in proper order before the
Great Mirror. He took his place at the point of earth's
triangle and scenes of wonder from Venus began to
appear, he explaining every detail that did not ex
plain itself.
The pictures revealed much of their system of edu
cation showing astronomical instruments whose per
fection would make the scientific world of today
speechless with admiration and astonishment and
geologist's equipment for examining the interior of
the strata of the planets of both Venus and earth.
We saw inventors and several of their tremendous
discoveries surpassing our fondest imagination.
"Many of these inventions," explained the Master,
"will come into use on earth in the Golden Crystal
Age we have now entered."
Some of the principal inventions that are to be
utilized on earth were explained and could human
ity have seen them, it would take heart and be tre
mendously encouraged in regard to the future. It
may be these pictures from Venus will be taken up
VENUS VISITS THE ROYAL TETON 251
and described in a separate work later, providing
permission can be obtained.
The scenes from Venus finished, and those con
cerning the earth came on the screen. Many changes
were shown to take place in the next seventy years.
These affected Europe, Asia, India, North and South
America, and revealed to us, that regardless of all
appearances at the present time, the sinister force at
tempting to create chaos and destruction through
out the world, will be completely destroyed. When
that is accomplished the mass of humanity will turn
to the "Great God Presence" within each heart and
also governing the Universe. "Peace shall reign- on
earth— and man send out good will to man." This
Revelation was stupendous. The closing scenes fol
lowed next and these concerned principally the
United States in the next century. The progress and
advancement she will make is almost unbelievable.
These things are true, for the "Great God Law"
makes no mistakes and the Revelations of that New
Year's night are God's Eternally True Records.
Certain great souls were shown who would awaken,
be raised, and added to the Host of Ascended Ones
to carry forward this great progress. The Presiding
Master then reminded those present of the "Blessed
Kumaras," and in a voice filled with Love and Adora
tion, gave the following explanation in tribute to
them.
252 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
"The Seven Kumaras, whom some Inner students
have known as 'Lords of the Flame' from Venus,
were the Only Ones from this entire system of plan
ets, who of their own free will and infinite Love,
offered to guard the children of earth and assist their
upward progress. They came and gave transcendent
help here at the most critical period of earth's growth.
It was the time of initiation that is most dangerous
in the Life of a planet and its humanity, but through
their protection and guidance, the goal was attained
and mankind has been enabled to reach the 'Greater
Heights.'
"Many of the Brothers understand that every
twenty-five hundred years—the Kumaras release a
greatly-increased outpouring of Cosmic Love, Wis
dom, and Energy. This Blazing Light and Tran
scendent Radiance flooding the earth and its inhabit
ants, interpenetrating all, is a tremendous lifting
process, and gives a forward impulse to the growth
of the entire earth, as well as its humanity.
"Just preceding each of these Great Outpourings,
extraordinary physical disturbances occur, and
general unrest is felt throughout by the people. Such
disturbance is due to the discord that has accumu
lated during the last of the preceding period. The
generation of such inharmony is due, always, to the
wandering away from the fundamental 'Principle of
Life' and the human sense disturbance thus created
VENUS VISITS THE ROYAL TETON 253
pollutes the outer activity of mankind, the earth, and
its atmosphere.
"It is to cleanse this, and bring humanity back to
the Original Purity of Life that cataclysmic action
takes place. It is following these periods, the Kum-
aras release an enormous outpouring of 'LIGHT'
to illumine and strengthen earth's children, ulti
mately enabling them to make the Supreme Attain
ment.
"We are approaching another such period, and this
time the release of the Great Cosmic Love, Wisdom,
and Energy, the Mighty Rays of Light, will not only
quicken the minds of the race but the atomic struc
ture of earth as well, making it more 'Luminous' in
our solar system. Never, since these Great Lords of
the Flame came to earth, have conditions permitted
such a Great Outpouring to take place as will occur
ere long. Many, who have seemed to become hard
ened by their former activities, will awaken, as it
were almost overnight, and feel the Nearness of the
Great God 'Presence' within each heart. Many, who
have been meek and humble but holding close to the
'Inner Presence,' will suddenly blaze forth, amazing
themselves as well as others— by the Transcendent
Light, they will manifest. All will be done by the
Power of God-Love, and humanity will truly begin
to realize that it is the height of folly for one part of
God's Creation to war against another part.
254 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
"The desire to bless others instead of themselves
will almost involuntarily enter into the hearts of
mankind, and send forth a 'Light' that will illumine
the rest of the 'Way to Perfection.'
"Selfishness alone holds the children of this sphere
in the bondage and misery which have been allowed
to express upon earth, but when the 'Light of the
Christ' expands the 'Love in the Heart,' selfishness
flees and returns to the sea of forgetfulness.
"Great, natural physical changes will take place.
Two Great Centers of 'Light' will pour forth their
blessing to humanity— one, the Glorious Glistening
'Presence' of Shamballa in its Dazzling Radiance,
and the other will appear in the United States, not
however where any so far have been led to believe,
but at a point which has not yet been indicated to
outer channels of the world.
"During the present activity of assistance and in
tense outpouring of 'Light' by the Great Ascended
Host, who assist the children of earth, hundreds of
humanity will find their present physical bodies being
quickened by the rapid raising of the vibratory rate
and, as this is completed, will realize that human,
physical limitation and discord have dropped away
like an old worn-out garment; and that they, the
Children of Light, stand forever at one with the
'Flame of Life-Everlasting' and the 'Perfection of
Eternal Youth and Beauty' a visible, tangible reality.
VENUS VISITS THE ROYAL TETON 255
"Beloved children of earth, you stand upon the
Threshold of the Ages. Its door is being held open
by the 'Great Ones of Love' who ever invite you to
walk consciously by their side in the 'Light.' No
matter what the activities in the world without, walk
with the 'Light' and in the 'Light,' regardless of ap
pearances. Then, will you find a Master of the 'Light,'
who has trod this self-same path before you, ever
watches and stands by your side revealing the 'True
Way.'
"The cycle changes and we enter a New Dispensa
tion that brings with it a safer, more powerful, and
yet rapid means by which the one climbing the Path
to Attainment is enabled to hold permanent con
tact with the 'Great Cosmic Light.'
"In this New Order, the discipline for the neo
phyte will be the focusing and maintaining of his at
tention entirely upon the three highest centers of
the body, and he will do all his work as these points.
Only the centers in the heart, throat, and head will
receive conscious consideration and attention.
"The entire effort of the aspirant will be to hold
his attention upon these, for only by looking away
from the lower centers will he ever be able to rise out
of misery and limitation. The center at the top of
the head is the highest focus in the human body, and
there the Silver Cord of 'Liquid White Light' from
the Great Source of Creation enters.
256 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
"When the attention of the mind is held steadfast
upon this, the Door of the Soul is opened and the
Three Fold Activity of the Pure White Light en
circles the waist just below the solar plexus, cutting
off forever the destructive activities of the animal
nature in man. This permits his soul to leap forth
into its Complete Divine Activity, united once more
with the Perfection of Its Source, and Eternally there
after Master of all human creation—which means the
discords of earth. Sincere students should meditate
frequently upon the Perfect Action of the 'Golden
Light' within the head, for It will illumine and
teach the outer mind all good things. This is the
Light of the God Within.' One should feel It filling
his entire consciousness, his body and world. This
is the 'Light that lighteth every man that cometh
into the world,' and there is no human being in
existence who has not some of this 'Light' within him.
"There are many throughout the earth who are
rapidly awakening, and feeling the Mighty Surge of
this 'Inner Light' pouring Itself out through them
and thus finding greater expression. If these will
rigidly keep themselves harmonious, unflinchingly
hold their attention upon the God Self Within, ac
cept and visualize the full activity of Its Dazzling
Radiance, they can encircle themselves in the Three-
Fold Activity of the White Light. This cuts off the
discordant creation of the outer world.
VENUS VISITS THE ROYAL TETON 257
"Beloved Brothers and Sisters, it will be our great
joy and privilege to meet with you in January and
July of each year, here in your Retreat because of
the Nearness and Outpouring of the All-controlling
God-Light, which will soon be flooding America
from shore to shore.
"Now, while the crystal containers are being
brought in, let us meditate deeply upon the 'One
ness of Venus and the earth, the Omnipresence of
Divinity abiding in form.'
"
We remained in deep silence for about ten min
utes, and then the Presiding Master instructed us
three to take our places beside the caskets. He made
the Sign of the heart and head, crossed his hands upon
his chest, and called unto the "God-Presence":
"Thou Mighty Creator of the Universe and all it
contains, Thou One Omnipresent God, we await
the Manifestation of Thy Great Beneficent Pres
ence."
A soft, rose-colored, luminous essence enveloped
ourselves and the containers, drawing close about us.
Suddenly, A Great Shaft of Dazzling White Light
entered the enveloping Radiance, remained three
or four minutes, and gradually faded from sight.
As we looked into the containers, the three bodies
were resting within them. Observing each other, we
were again clothed in the bodies the Master, Saint
Germain, had prepared for us—and because of which,
258 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
we were enabled to visit the Great Assembly in the
Royal Teton.
The Presiding Master blessed those assembled, the
"Brotherhood of the Royal Teton" and all upon
earth, promising to be with them again the follow
ing July.
The Twelve from Venus then took their stations
upon the circle in the floor of the audience hall.
The entire mountain trembled with the Mighty
God-Power which they drew and, the "Light" thus
focused took the form of an enormous eagle, its body
violet and the head and feet of gold. The entire room
became filled with a "Blazing White Light" forming
one end of a "Great Pathway of Luminous Essence,"
on which the Twelve Radiant Beings returned to
their home on Venus.
The Supreme Vision, on which those assembled
gazed, surpasses anything words can describe. As the
Great Vibratory Activity was lowered a Wondrous
Crystal Radiance illumined the Cosmic Mirror, and
the words: "Peace and Illumination to all the earth
and its inhabitants. Blessings from Venus" appeared
across its surface.
Each guest touched his heart and forehead, crossed
his hands upon his chest and bowed in acceptance of
the Mighty Outpouring. All passed before Lanto,
and received individual instruction for the work
of nineteen thirty-one, then sat in deep silence and
VENUS VISITS THE ROYAL TETON 259
adoration unto the "Great Light." At the end of the
meditation, a glorious burst of music filled the great
hall and heads were bowed to receive His Blessing.
His voice, clear, beautiful and resonant rang out:
"There is nothing Supreme but God. There is
nothing Eternal and Real but The Christ. There is
nothing True but The Light. These Three aire 'The
One.' All else is shadow. Remember, shadows hide,
shadows mislead, and shadows make mankind stum
ble.
"He, who walks the Pathway of Light stands true
to the Christ and looks always Godward, lives in a
world of his own, untouched by the seething vortex
about h1m, yet ever working in
it,
while the shadows
last. These he turns his Light upon, and thus com
pels them to pass into the sea of forgetfulness.
"There
is
no happiness apart from facing and ador
ing the One Great God, The Source of All. There
is
nothing permanent but Christ. There
is
no way
to proceed through the Universe but on the 'Path
way of Light.'
"If you will arm yourselves with this Eternal Un
derstanding of Life, swear allegiance only to your
Source— God—stand true to the Christ, and carry
the Light, you will accept as your code of honor the
obligation 'To love and bless Life,' no matter in
what form
it
may be expressing, wherever you meet
it. This
is
the Eternal Plan of Existence and who
260 UNVEILED MYSTERIES
soever knows That, may proceed anywhere in the
Universe, explore all it contains, and yet be un
touched by whatever shadows mankind has created,
in its forgetfulness of Whence It sprang.
"GOD alone is Great, and only unto the 'Source
of all Greatness' does all Glory belong. He, who
knows only his Source and refuses aught else is wise
indeed, for he becomes Permanent Happiness, and
is Master wherever he moves.
"Then, and then alone, may he become Creator of
Worlds. Upon these, he bestows his happiness, and
in this activity really lives the Divine Plan for all.
"Members of the Brotherhood of the Royal Teton!
reveal thou This Plan to the wayward children of
earth. Shed Thy Radiance upon their self-created
shadows, and point them 'The Way to The Great
Central Sun'—our Transcendent Source. My Light
enfolds you, My Power upholds you, and My Love
breathes through you to those who seek their home
in 'The Light.'
"Beloved humanity, may this same Mighty Radi
ance shed its Light to illumine, heal, and bless you
with that Divine Love which will ever hold all
close in the Eternal Embrace of 'The One Supreme
Light.'
"America, God bless you and clothe you now
with the 'Everlasting Shadowless Light.'
"
FINIS
THE SAINT GERMAIN SERIES
SAINT GERMAIN PRESS
Post Office Box 1133 Chicago, Illinois.
UNVEILED MYSTERIES, Volume I
By Godfre Ray King
Containing the first group of the author's experiences.
Price $2.50 Postpaid $4.75
THE MAGIC PRESENCE, Volume II
By Godfre" Ray King
Containing the second group of the author's experiences.
Price $8.75 Postpaid $3.00
THE "I AM" DISCOURSES, Volume III
By the Ascended Master, Saint Germain
Containing thirty-three Discourses, explaining the Ascended Masters'
Application of the "I AM," with three color plates.
Price ?s.75 Postpaid $3.00
THE "I AM" ADORATIONS, AFFIRMATIONS
AND DECREES, Volume V
By Chanera
Parts 1 and s
A selection of powerful Adorations, Affirmations and Decrees
of the "Mighty I AM Presence."
Price 51.75 Postpaid $2.00
ASCENDED MASTER DISCOURSES, Volume VI
By Various of the Ascended Masters
Containing twenty Discourses dictated before hundreds of students, with
three color plates.
Price $2.75 Postpaid $3.00
ASCENDED MASTER LIGHT, Volume VII
By Various of the Ascended Masters and Cosmic Beings
Containing twenty-six Discourses, dictated before hundreds of students,
with three color plates.
Price $3.00 Postpaid $3.25
"I AM" ADORATIONS AND AFFIRMATIONS
By Chanera
Vest Pocket Edition powerful Adorations and Affirmations.
Price $1.00 Postpaid $1.20
THE SAINT GERMAIN SERIES
SAINT GERMAIN PRESS
Post Office Box 1133
Chicago, Illinois.
"I AM" DECREE BOOKLET
By Chanera
A paper bound booklet, containing a collection of "I AM" Decrees which
everyone can use to bring Protection and Freedom to the individual,
America and the world. Size 51^ x 8.
Price 50 cents each Postpaid 65 cents
SPECIAL "I AM" DECREES
LOOSE-LEAF BINDER in heavy green cloth, stamped to match the
Saint Germain Series. For Special "I AM" Decrees as they come out
from time to time. Decrees are printed on fillers punched to fit
Binder, which holds about 150 leaves (300 pages).
BINDER Price $1.25 Postpaid $1.40
DECREES Price ic per page (2 pages to the leaf)
Postpaid —according to weight
CHART OF "THE MAGIC PRESENCE"
A beautifully lithographed chart, suitable for framing and contempla
tion. Size 30 x 5s on heavy linen for Study Groups and individual use.
Price $15.00 Mailing charges included.
Size l* x 21 on medium weight paper.
Price $1.00 Postpaid $1.20
Size 5 x on lighter paper.
Price 15 cents each Postpaid 18 cents
Size x 334
—sold in lots of not less than one dozen.
Price 50 cents per dozen Postpaid 53 cents
CHARTS AND FLAMES IN ACTION
This animation of the Charts and Flames enables the student to feel
the action of both with powerful intensity. Size 30 x 52.
Price $200.00 each Plus Express.
Size 12 x 21.
Price $50.00 each Plus Express.
All prices for Charts and Flames in Action f.o.b. Los Angeles, California.
Order from SAINT GERMAIN PRESS, Los Angeles Branch, P. O. Box
428, Los Angeles, California.
PICTURE OF THE ASCENDED MASTER, JESUS
PICTURE OF THE ASCENDED MASTER.
SAINT GERMAIN
Size 12 x 16.
Hand colored steel engravings of etchings by Charles Sindelar.
Price each $2.00 Postpaid $2.15
THE SAINT GERMAIN SERIES
SAINT GERMAIN PRESS
Post Office Box 1133 Chicago, Illinois.
PICTUR.E OF THE COSMIC BEING, ORION,
better known as
"THE OLD MAN OF THE HILLS"
Size is x 16
Hand colored steel engraving of etching by Robert Aguilar.
Price $2.00 Postpaid $2.85
"THE VOICE OF THE 'I AM'"
Monthly Magazine containing articles explaining the Law of Life; also
Discourses by the Ascended Masters and other important subjects. Back
numbers available beginning February 1936. Yearly subscriptions begin
with March, 1939.
Price 13.00 Single copy 35 cents.
RADIO BROADCASTING TRANSCRIPTIONS
A Series of Broadcasts available for use, containing explanation of the
Law of Life; also protection for America. For information write Saint
Germain Press, Chicago, Illinois.
MUSIC OF THE SPHERES
Light of My Heart "I AM" Come
Lotus My Love Goddess of Purity
Oh World Victorious Nada Our Love
Rainbow Rays America Our Beloved Land
Voice of the Presence Our Beloved Saint Germain
Rose of Light Great Divine Director
Son of Light Glorious Cosmos
Call to Light Mighty Victory
The Great Command Princess Leto
Silent Sentinel My Cosmic Heart
A Group of Songs —Music and Lyrics by Godfre Ray King. These songs
are especially charged with powerful healing and special activity, ac
cording to the meaning of the lyrics.
Each piece of music has beautifully lithographed cover in color,
suitable for framing, each representing that which the music portrays.
Price each $1.00 Postpaid $1.15
SONG BOOKS
Containing many new and original songs for which music will be pub
lished and released as quickly as possible through the Saint Germain
Press.
Price each 50 cents Postpaid 55 cents
THE SAINT GERMAIN SERIES
SAINT GERMAIN PRESS
Post Office Box 1133
Chicago, Illinois.
VICTROLA AND PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
(RR-1201 —Invocation Mr. and Mrs. Ballard and Son
(RR-1202—Harp Contemplation (Silent Night) Mrs. Ballard
(RR-1203—Benediction Mr. and Mrs. Ballard
(RR-1247
—Contemplation (Nearer My God to Thee) Mrs. Ballard
(200-A — Light of My Heart (Instrumental) Lotus Ray King, Harpist;
(200-B — Rose of Light Frederick Landwehr, Organist
(201-A —Lotus My Love (Instrumental) Lotus Ray King, Harpist;
(201-B —Voice of the Presence Frederick Landwehr, Organist
(202-A —Son of Light (Instrumental) Lotus Ray King, Harpist;
(202-B —Call to Light Frederick Landwehr, Organist
{203
-A—Rainbow Rays (Instrumental) Lotus Ray King, Harpist;
(203-B
—Oh, World Victorious Frederick Landwehr, Organist
(204-A
—Silent Sentinel (Instrumental) Lotus Ray King, Harpist;
1204-B—America Our Beloved Land (Instrumental)
Frederick Landwehr, Organist
(205-A
—"I AM" Come (Instrumental) Lotus Ray King, Harpist;
1205-B—Our Beloved Saint Germain (Instrumental)
Frederick Landwehr, Organist
These Records are suitable for individual contemplation or use in Study
Groups.
Price each $2.50 Postpaid $2.75
TRANSLATIONS
BOOKS IN BRAILLE
"Unveiled Mysteries" —In Two Volumes Price $5.25
"The Magic Presence" —In Three Volumes Price $7.75
"The 'I AM' Discourses" —In Two Volumes Price $6.75
"Ascended Master Discourses" —In Two Volumes Price $7.00
Plus Mailing Charges.
