{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__kapp___glands.pdf","mytitle":"Glands","mylang":"de"}
#lanb£ —
<&ur Slnbisible <2$uarbians«
BY
M. W . KAPP, M. D.
ROSICRUCIAN LIBRARY
VOLUME XVIII
SUPREME GRAND LODGE OF AMORC
Printing and Publishing Department
San Jose, California
Copyright 1939
By AMORC
Printed and Bound in U. S. A. by
•<& ?*'
THE ROSICRUCIAN PRESS, LTD.
San Jose, California
DEDICATION
V
T o T H E
M e n a n d W o m e n
throughout the world who are seeding to
understand the physical, mental, and
spiritual urges of their beings,
T h is B o o k is D e d ic a t e d
tuith the hope that it will serve them
in their noble purposes.
1939
The Rosicrucian Library
V V V
VOLUME
I. Rosicrucian Questions and Answers with Complete
History of the Order.
II. Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and Business.
JII. The Mystical Life of Jesus.
IV. The Secret Doctrines of Jesus.
V. “Unto Thee I Grant . . “
(Secret Teachings of Tibet.)
VI. A Thousand Years of Yesterdays.
(A Revelation of Reincarnation.)
VII. Self Mastery and Fate with the Cycles of Life.
(A Vocational Guide.)
VIII. Rosicrucian Manual.
IX. Mystics at Prayer.
X. Rosicrucian Healing.
(In preparation.)
XI. Mansions of the Soul.
(The Cosmic Conception.)
XII. Lemuria, The Lost Continent of the Pacific.
XIII. The Technique of the Master.
XIV. The Symbolic Prophecy of the Great Pyramid.
XV. The Book of Jasher.
XVI. The Technique of the Disciple.
XVII. Mental Poisoning.
XVIII. Glands— Our Invisible Guardians.
(Other volumes will be added from time to time.
Write for complete catalogue.)
CONTENTS
V
CHAPTER PAGE
In tro d u ctio n .................................................................................................................9
F o r e w o r d .....................................................................................................................11
I. Divine A lc h e m y ..........................................................................................13
II. The Endocrines and Their Horm ones........................................................21
III. Location and Action of the Glands andEndocrine Substance . . 27
IV. An Introspect—The Mystical L a w s ....................................................... 43
V. Types of Endocrine Persons.........................................................................49
VI. Continuation of T y p e s .............................................................................. 63
VII. Methods of Developing the EndocrineG lan d s......................................... 69
VIII. Examples of the Inhibitions and Exhilarations of the
Glandular S y s te m ............................................................................. 77
IX. Helpful I t e m s ...............................................................................................87
Index ..........................................................................................................................95
G L A n d
F l T U t T A P V
G L A N D
CHART A
INTRODUCTION
Every activity of Nature is within Cosmic Laws. There
are no miracles. The author and the publishers hope to bring
to the lay mind, in simple language, many of the truths now
known to science and philosophy and thus pave the way for
more truths and knowledge that may be woven into Wisdom.
Surely every thinking mind will realize the need for truths
and knowledge. It is only through these that wisdom may
be attained.
Falsehood, superstition and ignorance can never lead us
to wisdom, nor to moral, mental and spiritual beauty.
There is no standing still in our evolvement. W e either
progress or retrogress. This law is Nature's edict, not man’s.
Man’s evolving as far as he has is due to cosmic intuition
or poetic genius that has driven him ever on, and mostly
upward. All through the ages he has been seeking more
light, more power, more happiness and more love.
Science is opening the doors to a more positive advance'
ment for man. It is proving that life’s processes for man lie
almost wholly within himself and are amenable to control
and upbuilding.
In the past man has been taught by exhortations, by af­
firmation, by superstition, but now we have teaching by
proven and demonstrated facts.
Science now knows that the building and evolvement
forces within man operate almost wholly through the glandu'
lar structures of the body. W e hope to bring the known
facts of the glandular activities to the reader so that he will
understand them and thus be able to live a fuller and more
beautiful life.
This volume is dedicated to all who seek more truth,
knowledge and understanding.
M. W . Kapp, M. D.,
San Jose, Calif.
[ 9 ]
FOREWORD
The one great unanswered Question is:— “W H A T IS
LIFE?"
W e are not foolish enough to try to answer that profound
question.
All we know is what lies within our consciousness. Our
consciousness tells us that each of us is a “Being” or in a
state of “being.” If I am a being now, I must have been in
a state of being before I arrived on this plane of being, or I
must have been created from nothing.
While we may not know what life is, we may study the
manifestations of life and profit thereby.
From the oldest of philosophies and from modern science
we learn that Man has four primitive urges.
The First Urge is for POW ER and is manifested from
the time the child begins to move about, and through deveh
opment as a child, and an adult, and even unto old age. In
games, in fights, in social preferment, in politics, in finances
—always seeking more power.
The Second Urge is for POSSESSIONS and is fostered
from the time the child reaches out for a colored rattle on
to the possession of estates and all forms of wealth and bodily
comforts.
The Third Urge becomes the Love of Life and the Crea-
tive Urge. This is the differentiating force. It is the mani­
festation of the male and female. It includes the urge for
parenthood, the love of humanity, the intellectual uplift.
[ n 3
The Fourth Urge is for Spiritual Uplift and understand'
ing of moral beauty and the advancement of human relations
and the “God Within.”
If the reader will constantly keep in mind the Four Urges,
he will better understand the building and driving forces
of the ductless glands.
The study of the ductless glands though a comparatively
recent study is a very vital one.
These urges are impelling and are only slightly influenced
by the voluntary mind forces. A calm nerve or mental state
will aid normal activity. A worried or harried state of mind
retards the glandular activities. The emotions of the body
come from the endocrine or gland activities.
In the study of these forces and urges within Man, one
must always keep in mind the Law of Action and Re'Action,
or the Law of Cause and Effect.
My knowledge and understanding of the ductless glands
and their activities has helped me very much in my 43 years
of active medical practice. I wish to express my appreciation
of the debt I owe to the work of such men as Sajous, Crile,
Cannon, Loeb, Lorand, Berman, Bandler, Milliken, Soddy
and many others. These men have brought us a vast heritage.
To play the game of Life well, one needs to know the laws
and rules of the game.
Alexis Carrel in his wonderful book “Man the Unknown”
calls for scientists, philosophers, economists and teachers to
awaken, and to give freely of their knowledge and efforts to
uplift mankind. His call has inspired us to bring out the
second edition of this story of the ductless glands and our
evolvement.
[ 12]
M. W . Kapp, M. D.
CHAPTER I
Divine Alchemy
By H. S p e n c e r L e w is , Ph. D.
AM very greatly pleased to be able to offer to our
members and our friends this unusual manuscript
dealing with the glands of the human body. Not
only does the matter deal exhaustively with the sub'
ject, but I believe it only fair to state that the author
of this manuscript, Dr. M. W . Kapp, has had a very
remarkable career for many years in Santa Clara Valley and
Central California, where his confreres and brethren of the
medical fraternity hold him in the highest esteem for his ef­
ficiency and his unusual diagnostic abilities and his keen in­
sight into the invisible mechanism of the human body and
its functionings.
Admittedly Dr. Kapp has had unusual success with his
patients, and admittedly he has had a very definite viewpoint
regarding health and illness, and this manuscript of his deal­
ing with the glands of the human body and their functioning
reveals why he has been able to assist his patients in receiving
the natural, curative operations of nature. He has given not
only nature, but the divine forces throughout the human
body a greater opportunity to do their normal, creative work,
and has been able to point out to his patients why and how
they have been doing those things, or thinking those things,
or permitting those things in their lives that interfered with
this normal, natural, divine functioning in their bodies.
Originally, Dr. Kapp called his manuscript “A Story of
How the Lives of Human Beings Are Controlled.” In a
[ 13 ]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
large sense his title was indicative of what he has really
learned and observed. While he has not been a member of
the Rosicrucian Fraternity, and he has not received the secret
Rosicrucian instructions regarding the functioning of the
various glands throughout the body, he has been by nature
and by insight mystically inclined to such an extent that he
has been able to observe by carefully studying the lives, and
especially the abnormal conditions, of his patients how these
glands have actually “controlled” the normal functioning of
the entire body. The Rosicrucians have maintained for cem
turies that these glands act more like “guardians” of the lives
of human beings than as “controllers” and yet it must be
admitted that a true guardian is also a controller.
When we stop to realise that man in his earthly existence
is functioning as a dual being, and that there is a spiritual
self within a physical body, and that the spiritual self is there
for the purpose of giving man intellectually a sense not only
of divine wisdom and divine mastership over earthly condi'
tions, but to guard and control the perfect operation of the
physical body, we must realise that there must be also some
means of exchange or communication between the spiritual
self and the physical self. In other words, there must be some
places or points within the human body where the spiritual
power, self, and intelligence can transmute its power, author'
ity, and control into the grosser elements of nerve energy,
blood, vitality, and human mechanism so that the higher,
finer, almost intangible and imperceptible forces of the divine
self may be brought down to a rate of vibrations and a form
of power crude enough, or material enough, to function
through the flesh and bones and other material, chemical ele'
ments that constitute the body of man.
The glands have been found to be these intercommuni'
eating instruments, these transformers, or transmuters be'
tween the spiritual, divine, Cosmic self and the grosser,
[ 14]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
earthly and physical self. They bring about within man a
divine alchemy. For many centuries the most eminent mys-
tical scientists, who made a very serious study of the rhyth-
mic, synchronous functionings of both the divine and phys­
ical self in man’s body, believed that the pineal and pituitary
bodies, now known to be glands, were the only actual physi­
cal, material organs for such transmutation of a higher force
and energy into a more material force. On the other hand,
there were those who believed that the solar plexus was the
sole gland of importance, and that its function was that of in­
terpreting and transmuting the higher, inspirational, Cosmic,
or spiritual emotions within man into the grosser, material,
emotional reactions, and for a century or more the solar
plexus was somewhat worshipped and adored as the seat and
soul of all of man’s higher activities. But when it was dis­
covered that the spiritual element within man is to be found
in every living cell of every part of the bone tissue and blood,
and that the soul and emotional nature of man is not located
in one organ or one part of the body, it became necessary to
study man’s physical anatomy more carefully and then
the many other glands were discovered and given proper
attention.
In this book, which we are happy to present to our mem­
bers and friends, Dr. Kapp has explained, as a medical man
and as a medical scientist would explain in psychic and mys­
tical terms, the location and functioning and purpose of each
one of these main glands. He has done so in a manner that
is not only consistent with what is contained in the Rosicru-
cian teachings, but is free from the more or less limited tech­
nical phrases and definitions of Rosicrucianism so that medi­
cal men, scientists, and laymen alike who have not been
versed in the Rosicrucian terminology and principles can
understand the importance of these glands and their func­
tioning and the other necessary conditions of keeping the
[ in
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
body normal in every possible way so that these glands can
perform their divine purpose without earthly, material,
physical interference.
Speaking of the emotional centers of man’s body again, we
have found, as have scientists and medical men, that the
spleen is just as reactive and just as demonstrative of the emo-
tional functions of man’s mental, psychic, spiritual and physi­
cal existence as is the solar plexus. This, too, was discovered
many centuries ago, and for that reason many popular
phrases were invented by the more or less ignorant laymen
whereby they expressed the idea that one who was despond­
ent or unhappy or cranky was manifesting a bad spleen. But
it is also true that no part of man’s spiritual and physical
composition can be out of order or out of harmony with the
Cosmic rhythm or with the Cosmic flow of vibrations with­
out man’s emotions reacting and manifesting the inharmon­
ious attunement.
From many mystical or spiritual points of view the pitui­
tary and pineal bodies or glands may be quite important in
certain so-called “psychic” reactions. No one knows better
that do the Rosicrucians that these two glands or bodies
should be given careful thought in connection with many
forms of development of the latent spiritual, or Cosmic
abilities of the human being. But then again there is the
thyroid gland which, while it does have a considerable im­
portance in connection with the development and growth of
the physical human body, and from the physical, medical
point of view may be closely related with certain forms of
malignant or toxic conditions that are subnormal or abnor­
mal, on the other hand, is important in certain forms and
degrees of psychic or spiritual development.
But all of the glands have some relation not only to the
emotions within the average human being, but also to the
mental tendencies. W e are now learning that certain types
[ 16]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
of criminals are unquestionably victims of certain gland con-
ditions and should be classified as “gland criminals.” The
endocrines offer an opportunity for criminologists to definite'
ly foretell the tendencies of a criminal nature on the part of
those who have just passed through the adolescent stage and
are approaching adulthood.
It is not necessary for every individual to become mys'
tically inclined or to be given to the study and reading of
mystical, mysterious, spiritual or religious subjects in order
to be benefited by a very careful study of the glands within
the human body. Undoubtedly certain forms of extreme reli­
gious fanaticism are due to an abnormal or subnormal develop-
ment, or an atrophied condition of certain glands. But do
not allow this to give you the impression that to be devoutly
religious, or even to put religion above all other things, is
necessarily an indication that you are over-developed in re­
gard to some of your glands. The atheist, like some foreign
and American medical writers, would have us believe that
an enthusiastic belief in, or an enthusiastic adherence to, any
doctrines or practices indicates a subnormal or abnormal
mental and glandular condition. This is not true. The truly
normal, natural person is one who does express and manifest
certain very definite, enthusiastic principles, ideals, and de­
sires, and the really abnormal or subnormal person is one
who “takes life as he finds it” and who from day to day finds
no ecstacy, no joy, no happiness, no enthusiasm in any one
thing that interests a part or all of human civilization.
That those who are enthusiastically inclined toward mys­
ticism and psychic matters may be abnormal is only true if
we take a cross-section of the entire world population and
make comparisons, because thereby we find that those who
are enthusiastically inclined in such subjects are in the minor­
ity. But should we assume that the minority in any case is
subnormal or abnormal? The line between perfect sanity and
[ 17 1
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
the slightest degree of insanity is so flexible, intangible, and
indefinite that no one, not even the greatest psychiatrist, can
attempt to define it and establish it. It has been facetiously
said that all of us—meaning you and I and the rest of the
world—are insane on some subjects. By that is meant that
a majority of us are more enthusiastic, react more easily to
some ideas, some ideals, and interests than do other human
beings. But this is not an indication of an abnormal attitude
of mind, or an insane attitude or faulty development. It is
simply a manifestation of the complexity of human nature,
and human emotions, which complexity makes human exist'
ence interesting and gives us the manifold manifestations of
art and the creative abilities and the beauties of manmade
things of a material or spiritual nature.
Even our human countenances, our human attractiveness,
and most essentially that intangible something called “human
personality” or “personal magnetism,” are the result of the
normal and proper functioning of the glands. And that
which attracts one person to another is something more than
the mere definiteness of the hand'dasp or the deliberateness
of the smile, or the wiles of the pleasant words that are
spoken.
By knowing our glands and how they function, and by
knowing how to live properly, which includes eating, drink'
ing, and breathing properly as well as thinking properly, we
can permit these glands to do their very best, and give us
every advantage of their divine functioning. Dr. Kapp has
very beautifully outlined these ideas in his manuscript, and
I especially urge each reader to pay very strict attention to
the first twenty or thirty pages of this book wherein many
very excellent ideas are presented for the first time by a man
who is above everything else a very strict and careful medical
practitioner of many years’ experience, and secondly, a keen
and excellent student of human nature. W ith this intro'
[ is]
G L A M D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
ductory chapter, therefore, I recommend this book to our
members and friends and their friends everywhere. Many
books have been published recently dealing with the various
glands of the body, and some even dealing with the effect of
these glands upon the human personality, but most of them
have been too technical, too much like reading a book on
physiology or anatomy, and have missed or entirely ignored
or negated the divine and Cosmic functioning of these glands
and the spiritual side of nature.
I am glad, therefore, that one physician of truly scientific
training, and especially one living so close to us here in this
beautiful valley, and so greatly in sympathy with the work
of the Rosicrucian Order, its research departments, and its
Rose'Oroix Research Institute and Clinic, is able to add to
the bibliography and literature of Rosicrucianism a manu'
script and book that will undoubtedly remain in its archives
for many centuries to come.
V V V
{19]
CHAPTER II
The Endoerines and Their Hormones
A N WILL evolve when he no longer craves the
bestial, the barbarous and more physical gratifica­
tion. When the time comes that he feels the spir­
itual urge, the intellectual enlightenment which leads
to a feeling of exaltation, of elevation and elation
(which must and will come to all men at some
stage in their evolution), then there comes a quickening of
all the moral senses and a consciousness of immortality and
goodness.
The superiority of really great or illumined souls, or egos,
lies in (1) intellectual acuteness, (2)moral elevation, (3) all-
embracing optimism, (4) the sense of immortality-—or to
express it more tersely, Cosmic Consciousness, or the more
familiar phrase, realization of “the kingdom of God within
us.”
Cosmic sense will give us the power over good and evil.
Man has been a long time evolving from his lower states
of being. There is still a long upward climb ahead of him.
It may be that we have all eternity to evolve in, and the
slow method may be the best, but when once one glimpses
the beauty ahead—even for a few illumined moments—one
becomes eager to evolve rapidly to a higher plane. One can­
not stay forever in the state of self-consciousness alone. One
must eventually evolve into the Cosmic Consciousness.
Our egos or souls (or whatever you choose to call that
which we are) must have the physical body to function or
perform in. This can be as pure as the mental or spiritual.
[ 21 ]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
W e doubt, however, if a clean soul can remain in a bestially
inclined body.
To keep the building forces of the body and soul clean
and in normal activity is our great hope and aim.
The building or constructive power of man comes through
the endocrines and their hormones. The endocrines are the
glands, mostly ductless, that secrete and distribute the sub'
stances called hormones which control our constructive pow'
ers, both physical and mental.
The story of the ductless glands or endocrines and their
hormones is the story of the human race in its evolvement
and unfolding. This story is not all told. It is just in the
telling and cannot be all told until man reaches perfection
or complete evolvement.
W e hope to bring to the lay mind some knowledge and
help in the constructive processes of everyday life.
The main endocrines or ductless glands of the living body
are:— the Pineal, Pituitary, Thyroid, Adrenals, Gonads
(sex glands) and Spleen. A few glands which have ducts
also secrete and distribute hormone substances. They are the
Liver, Pancreas, Kidneys, Salivary and Lymphatic glands.
W e are also learning lately that the Vitamins that are so
vital to the nourishment and activity of the body are build'
ed through the glands just mentioned.
The study of endocrines and their hormones is of but
little more than forty'five years standing, although about
170 years ago a French savant, Theophile de Bordeu, made
some study of the subject but it was not continued long. The
Brown'Sequard life rejuvenating elixir made quite a furore
45 years ago. This “Elixir” was an extract of the testicle in'
jected under the skin of the patient. Well do I remember a
trip to the slaughter house with the old family doctor under
whom I was studying medicine, and the selecting of a ram’s
testicle. From it we made the “elixir” and then made in'
[22]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
jections under the skins of three old men. The old men did
not rejuvenate. From the Brown-Sequard furore resulted a
more careful study and experimentation, with wonderful
gain to humanity.
The human body is built and vitalized by definite chemical
processes, well described by science. W e do not yet know
all the processes of construction yet we may profit greatly if
we study what has already been discovered.
Life forms are an expression of consciousness. As cells
evolved, various consciousnesses became active, thus it be"
came necessary that some control of conscious activity be
formed, so centers of control developed.
The cells needed control of light reaction, of pigment,
brain growth and sex ripening, and so there became a center
for all this which we call the Pineal gland. Also there devel­
oped the need of nourishment and a center of control for
the body building and proper food intake, so the Pituitary
gland was evolved. This gland controls the sense of taste
and smell by which we select proper foods and reject putrid
or unwholesome foods. The size of our bodies and mental
power is controlled by the Pituitary gland.
The cells of the forming body needed iron, phosphorus
and arsenic and to meet this need came the Thyroid gland.
All this evolving body needed energy control, and a rhyth­
mic movement producer, so the Adrenals were formed.
The single cell was immortal and had power to renew
itself perpetually, but when the cells began to try to work
together they lost the power of everlasting life and had to
resort to reproduction and general creative power. To pro­
duce this center for reproduction and creative power, the
sex glands (Gonads) were formed.
The growth of the young individual needed care, with a
check on some of the glands of later evolvement, especially
the sex glands, and there became created the Thymus gland.
[23]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
A storing place for food, a renovating system and a cir'
culating and distributing system became necessary so the liver
evolved and the blood circulatory system and the lymphatic
ducts and glands developed.
Thus Nature, or whatever you wish to call the Creative
Force, builded according to law and order with an intelligence
that is astounding to a careful observer. No wonder the an'
dents said God was “Spirit”, for this subtle unseen force
that builds is so powerful and yet invisible. When a man
studies deeply these unseen forces he becomes unconsciously
religious.
These glands must work in harmony or balance and to
do so they needed methods of intercommunication. The
chemical intercommunication is the oldest, we think, but soon
another method evolved. This we call nerve action. W e
doubt, if, even now, we know all the processes of conscious
relation of the glands and body. There may be vibrations so
subtle that the senses do not detect them as yet. When we
have learned the method of building and the relation of the
glands of the body, then we shall be masters of our whole
consciousness.
W e had long supposed that the brain was the source of
energy and the place from which the will and wish acted,
but now we know that the brain is only the depository of
memories, communicated to it by some method or process
that leaves its records somewhat as the producing needle of
the phonograph leaves its record in the wax or composition.
The vegetative system (the gland system) is the seat of
the impulses and urges of man. Love is not a result of the
thinking mind. It is an endocrine urge. A reasoning mind
can help to stabilize love but the impulse of love does not
come from conscious thinking. So with hates, fears, etc.
Man does not start war by his reasoning mind. It is the
primitive urges due to the endocrines that start wars. No
C24 ]
G L A N D S - O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
sane reasoning mind will ever wish to kill. You can see why
we need to build the conscious or reasoning mind. W e need
to study the sub-conscious mind, which is our building con­
sciousness, so that we can direct the building forces con­
structively and helpfully.
V V v
[25]
i
CHAPTER III
LOCATION AND ACTION OF THE GLANDS
AND ENDOCRINE SUBSTANCE
Pineal Gland
(SEE CHART A)
HE Pineal gland lies near the center of the brain.
It is very small, not much larger than a grain of
wheat. Mystics tell us that it is the bridge between
the higher planes of consciousness and the physical
plane of expression. Tradition tells us that it is the
remnant of a third eye used by man in his earliest
development. Descartes claimed that it was the seat of the
soul. W e know that there are cells in the pineal gland like
the retina of the eye.
Life is built around lime salts and the X-ray reveals that
the pineal gland contains small grains of sand or salts. In
disease the amount of sand in the gland is largely increased.
In cases of tumors of the pineal gland there have been won­
derful developments in sex and mental attainments and even
in spiritual and loving affection. This gland helps in holding
the sex in abeyance in childhood and aids in the ripening pro­
cess of sex after puberty. In childhood it probably acts with
the thymus gland. This gland seems to be the balance of
control for the action of light upon the pigment of the skin.
“It is the light within that reflects the light without.” The
pineal acts in conjunction with the adrenals in skin pigmen­
tation. It also acts in conjunction with sex glands and brain.
Pituitary Gland
This gland is about the size of a pea and lies at the base
of the brain behind the root of the nose in a little bony cup
[27]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
or cradle called the Sella Turcica or Turkish Saddle. If this
cradle is too small the development of the gland is retarded
and the person is very apt to be one of moral and intellectual
inferiority. The condition of this cradle can be demonstrated
by the X^ray. The gland is composed of an anterior and
posterior part. Each part has a distinct and separate origin,
history, function and secretion. It is a sort of male-female
combination. The anterior portion is a proliferation of the
mouth area—the taste and smell sense area. The posterior
part is an outgrowth from the oldest part of the nervous
system. The pituitary gland is often called the somatic brain
for it seems to be the center of the subconscious action.
The pituitary gland can be traced from the most primi-
tive form of life to man, and is the same in all planes. This
gland and the salt of the blood we have brought all the way
in our development from the sea to our present state. They
dominated us then as they do now. The pituitary gland is
a veteran in the ductless gland class and probably the most
important in man’s development. Its extirpation means death
in a very short time. It has been called “Nature's Darling
Treasure” because it is provided with a skull and within a
skull for its protection. Here we have an intimate meeting
or mingling of the internal secretions and nerves though
little is known of its nerve supply. W e doubt if much of its
fineness of action is as yet understood. Experimentation has
proven that the secretions from the anterior lobe of the
gland stimulate growth of bone and connective tissue. The
posterior lobe secretion controls the tone of the tissues of
the intestines, bladder and uterus. It also controls the salt
content of the blood.
Salt aids in the electrical conductivity of the system. Pit-
uitary extract raises the blood pressure and causes action
of the kidneys and milk secretion of the breasts. If given
hypodermically, it causes contraction of the uterus, aiding
[28]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
in expelling the child in childbirth. No other gland can take
the place of the pituitary gland.
The anterior lobe has a balancing power over sex and
creative force. The skeleton is dominated by the anterior
pituitary and we have giantism or dwarfism depending upon
the development and secretion of this lobe. Excess of anterior
lobe secretion and lack of posterior lobe secretion makes the
giant. An excess of anterior lobe secretion with an excess or
increase of posterior lobe secretion makes the mental giant.
This type is usually tall, bony and strong. The subpituitary
person is usually fat, lethargic, short and dull and sexually
impotent. Also apt to be an epileptic.
The pituitary controls the periodicity of sleep. An active
pituitary means alertness and wakefulness. A tired or dulled
pituitary means sleep or hibernation and general dullness.
Feeding of the gland products is not yet as satisfactory in
results as we might wish. There is something about the
chemistry of it we do not yet know. Hypodermic medication
seems to be rather active in results.
In pituitary excess the person is typically tall, lean (can'
not fatten him), with a tendency to high blood pressure and
sexual trends and great mental activity and initiative. Some'
times irritable but of great endurance. The pituitary is the
gland of continued effort.
When the cradle (Sella Turcica) for the pituitary is too
small we get under development of intellectual and moral
sense. Persons so afflicted are called pathological liars for
they have no sense of truth. This condition also aids in pro-
ducing Morons.
The Thyroid Gland
Is located just below the larynx and is composed of two
lobes lying on either side of the wind pipe and connected by
a “bridge” just below the Adam’s Apple. It arises from the
[29]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
same tissue and almost from the same spot as the anterior
lobe of the pituitary gland. It has a great controlling force
in the growth of man’s body and its sustaining power. The
thyroid acts upon the growth of the inner and outer cover­
ings of the body—skin, hair, glands, and mucous membranes.
It is the builder of the nerves and brain tissues. It is essen­
tially an energy producing organ. It forms the greater part
of the iodine or iron and phosphorus and arsenic of the sys­
tem. Iron for the general system and to aid in the electric
energy and conductivity of the system; phosphorus for the
nerve and brain centers; arsenic for the skin.
In the lower forms of life the thyroid was a sex gland.
It is now a link between the sex glands and the brain. It
is so intimately connected with the sex glands or gonads that
it is influenced by sex excitement, or menstruation or preg­
nancy. The thyroid is the gland that produced land animals
and is very important in the evolution of forms, and also
progression. The feeding of a thyroid to a Newt transforms
it into a Salamander—a land breathing animal. Tadpoles will
not develop into frogs if their thyroids are cut away, but
the evolvement of tadpoles into frogs can be hastened by
feeding of thyroid substance.
The thyroid is also very necessary for the development and
evolvement of a higher consciousness and psychic powers.
Thyroxin, the active principle of the thyroid is pure iodine.
The thyroid secretions are the controllers of the speed of
living. The more thyroid the faster one must live. That is,
there is a greater intensity and capability of living when the
thyroid is active. The Cretin is a person with a great lack of
thyroid secretion and is slow of movement, clumsy and
awkward and stumbles when going up stairs. The Cretin
seems to have no soul or at least it does not develop until
the thyroid develops. (By soul we mean a mental and spir­
itual condition). Many Cretins would become fine adults if
[ 30]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
they were fed thyroid extracts and given proper food and
had good surroundings.
The pituitary gland keeps the salt proportion of the blood
the same as that in the sea. The thyroid keeps the iodine
proportion of the blood the same as the iodine of the sea.
These proportions and elements have come all the way in
life’s evolvement from the life in the sea and still hold the
balancing or stabilizing power of the body, physical, emo­
tional and mental. The proportion of iodine is one drop to
four and a half barrels of blood or of sea water.
The Liver is the greatest user of iodine of any organ in
the body. Without thyroid secretion there can be no physi­
cal unfoldment, no function or faculty, no complexity of
thought, no learning and no responsive energies.
Excessive thyroid secretion as a disease is called Exopth-
almia and a lack of thyroid secretion is called a strumous or
cretin condition. Thyroid secretion increases gastric peristal­
sis and hastens all metabolic changes. Fine teeth usually indi­
cate good thyroid activity. Dry scaly skin usually means in­
ferior thyroid activity. When the activity of this gland is
normal the person’s ability to throw off poisons or infections
is much greater than when the thyroid is defective. Thyroid
is the great energizer. Its normal presence makes life worth
while and its absence takes all the joys out of life.
The Adrenal Glands
The adrenals are two in number. They are cocked-hat
shaped glands just over the kidneys, about as big as the end
of one’s finger. Like the pineal, pituitary and thyroid they
have no ducts but are very vascular so there is much blood
carried to them and the adrenal secretion is carried away
in the blood stream to all the tissues of the body where it
is used.
[ 3 1 ]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
Each gland is composed of a cortex or outer portion and
the medulla or inner portion, called the core. The cortex
is derived from the same tissues that formed the sex glands.
Vigorous or fighting animals have a large cortex or outer
part of the adrenals as for instance the lion, tiger, buffalo,
etc. Timid animals, such as the rabbit, have a small cortex.
There is a very close relation between the adrenals and
the gonads or sex glands. Before birth, disturbances such
as tumors in the adrenals, are supposed to be the cause of
hermaphroditism (both sexes in one). After birth tumors,
or disturbances in the adrenals, cause premature sex devel-
opment. Children of three or four years of age with such
disturbances often appear as 14 or 15 with the characteristic
sex conditions of that age: voice, hair growth, strong muscles
and general virility. There is a close alliance between the
brain cells, sex cells and adrenal cortex cells.
Adrenal secretion (called adrin or epinephrin) energizes
the muscles of the body and very especially the muscles of
the circulatory system and the digestive tract. The adrenals
seem to get their potential energy from the thyroid output
of iodine. In excessive action of the thyroid we get excessive
adrin or epinephrin and, from that, excessive stimulation of
the muscles and especially the muscles of the heart and the
rest of the circulatory system. The heart will pound like a
trip-hammer in an exopthalmia case.
Adrenal secretion is often called the enzyme of enzymes
(an enzyme is a digestive ferment). It supplies the base for
saliva, pepsin, hydrochloric acid, liver, pancreatic and in­
testinal juices. The adrenal cortex acts upon the pigment
cells of the body. In diseases of the cortex of the adrenals
the skin becomes dark or pigmented or bronzed. This is
called Addison's Disease.
Death follows quickly upon the removal of the adrenals.
There have been found cases of apoplexy of the adrenals and
[32]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
the action was similar to the action of apoplexy of the brain.
Adrin or epinephrin is the product of the inner portion of
the gland, the medulla. The secretion promptly raises blood
pressure when injected into the system. Adrenal secretion
tenses all the tissues of the body. The adrenal flow is brought
to excess by pain, fear, excitement, rage, or any of the pain'
ful emotions. (Every one has at some time in life felt the
tenseness of body under great stress of emotions.)
The adrenals are glands of combat. They are the evolve'
ment from the “Fight and Flight" age of man. Nature has
evolved all the glands and tissues as they were needed, but
as man developed individuality and with it selfishness and
greed he arrived where he no longer ran with “the pack"
to hunt. He wanted the best of things and separate from the
rest of the individuals. To get the best of the other fellow he
was always ready to “steal a march" or “put one over” on
his fellow'man and this led up to the “Fight and Flight” con'
dition. That is, he had to fight with all the fury of his power
or run away with all his power. It was “tooth and claw" or
fleetness of foot, that was the law of self-preservation or
rather self-satisfaction. Excessive adrenal secretion was ab­
solutely necessary for activating force in the “Fight or
Flight” condition. Excessive use of any of nature’s forces
will sooner or later pauperize those forces.
In spite of our boasted civilization we are still in the
“Fight and Flight” age. Our fighting and running away may
not be as crude as the cave man’s but it is still as destruc­
tive to the body and soul of man. Our jealousies, hates, fears,
struggles for wealth, power, position, our lusts, and super­
stitions all call upon the reserve supply of adrenal secretion
—the fighting or energizing secretion—until the glands are
exhausted and we wonder why so many die of heart disease
(over heart action), Bright’s Disease, diabetes, tuberculosis,
cancer, and other diseases of diminished resistance. “Ameri-
[33]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
canitis” is the result of our rapid living, or our refined
“Flight and Fight” era. The system is under constant shock
and the reserve energy is under call all the time. Shock is a
blow to the emotions from fright, anger, worry, surgical op­
eration or injury or some unpleasant experience. Under too
long continued stress the ductless gland system or endocrine
system ceases to function and the adrenals stop sending out
the supply of epinephrin, which is the tensing fluid, and the
heart slows, the blood vessels relax and the brain loses its
blood and unconsciousness follows. The skin turns white be­
cause the blood is no longer driven to the surface and a gen­
eral condition of collapse ensues and if adrenal secretion is
not supplied by artificial means or the latent forces within
the person given a chance to recuperate, death will follow.
Unconsciousness has been the turning point for the re­
covery of many a patient. The emotions and fears were for
the time cut out and their inhibiting power was dispelled
and the latent powers within the endocrines had an oppor­
tunity to assert themselves. Joy, hope, love, religious fervor
and other inspiring emotions have freed the endocrines and
given them an opportunity to act harmoniously and construc­
tively. Life is too strenuous and, when we learn the things
that the endocrinologists are trying to teach, we will play
fair with the forces within us. When we live so fast, we are
in a constant state of shock though we may not be in a faint
or unconsciousness. W e are in a lessened state of conscious­
ness because of our tenseness than we would be if we knew
how to be calm and harmonious in our being. Our tenseness
of living causes us to suffer with fatigue, nervous exhaus­
tion, sensitiveness to cold, loss of appetite, cold hands and
feet, and a loss of the 2;est of life. W e have mental inability,
tendency to worry and weep and, as we said before, a gen­
eral condition of “shock.” All the glands are involved in
shock but the adrenals are the specific glands of shock. The
[ 14]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
person with insufficient adrenal gland action is very apt to
succumb to diphtheria and severe fevers.
Men who have an excessive supply of adrenal secretion
(not exopthalmic) have great energy and unless well balanced
by the pituitary are apt to be cruel and dominating and are
often given to great sex excesses. The excessive-adrenal per'
sons are among the politicians, bankers, captains of industry,
and leaders of men. They are the men with terrific driving
force. When there is a good pituitary balance with strong
adrenal supply we get the great thinker and man of fine
power, with gentleness and fine ideals.
Excessive adrenal supply in a woman makes her masculine
and neutralizes her ovarian secretion. Such women become
the leaders and command responsible positions. It is a safe
bet that the first woman President of the United States will
be of this type, or at least an anterior pituitary'adrenal cen'
tered woman. This type of woman is also prone to growth
of hair on her face and body.
After all wars the nations involved are always in a state
of shock. Men and women are not normal. Waves of crime
and excesses follow every war. Women become more mas'
culine from the constant shock of their adrenal endocrines.
The adrenal arousing of the men turns them to sex excesses
for expression of force or even to crime. Advocates of war
say we need wars to arouse the evolving forces within man.
W e do not believe it necessary to arouse the brutal to evoke
the poetic and spiritual side of man.
The Gonads (Sex Glands)
The gonads of the female are the ovaries, breasts, and
uterus and in the male they are the testicles, the penis and
prostate gland. They are the generative or reproductive
glands or sex endocrines. They are of external and internal
secretion. The ovaries produce the ovum but they also pro'
[ 3 5 ]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
duce an endocrine substance that vitalizes a woman and
makes her feminine. The testes have as their external secre'
tion semen which is the spermatozoon carrier and which is
stored at the prostate gland. The internal secretion of the
cortex of the testes is the male energizing force and that
which makes him really male. It is the male endocrine.
Early life was reproduced and perpetuated by budding
or fissure. That might have been enough to perpetuate life
and mankind but the Great Consciousness seems to have
created farther for some purpose. Something more was need'
ed to evolve individuality and differentiation. From some
Great Wisdom came the evolvement of sex individuality and
sex differentiation with characters of negative and positive
expressions. Sex urge has caused some of man’s extremest
individualistic or selfish traits.
Before the advent of sex, food was the only urgent need
of life. Now more is required; sex pleasure, sex selection,
finer foods, the sense of beauty, personal adornment, the
urge for ever more and more expression. Sex has produced
ideals. There are different characteristics for male and fe'
male. Sex has lifted man above the commonplace, but it has
also been the greatest source of brutality. “Man has always
been most brutal to himself in the name of the ideal.” Cas'
tration was one of the first surgical operations and most
often done in the name of religion. In early ages children
were castrated and thus prepared for the profession of
eunuchs or slaves. In all ages it has been a religious rite by
some fanatical sects. Even at this day there are cults in Rou'
mania and Russia that practice castration. To a scientific
mind it is mighty hard to conceive of a Creator that would
love the handiwork of His consciousness any the more for
being mutilated. Yet in all ages there have been fanatics that
believe in perverting the natural expressions of the Great
Creative Force.
(36]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
In a person castrated before puberty, no sex character'
istics develop. The male voice stays high pitched, no hair
grows on the body and obesity and mental sluggishness pre'
vail. The eunuch is la2,y, suspicious and undependable. In
the female that is castrated before puberty the pelvis does not
develop, the breasts do not swell, the voice is low pitched, the
mind is dulled and the masculine type is produced. The cas'
trated male become female and the castrated female becomes
male in type. Experiments on these beings have shown that if
an ovary is implanted in a male eunuch his general character'
istics become female to a great degree. If a testicle is implant'
ed in a female eunuch the characteristics will soon become
male. If an ovary is implanted in a female eunuch the person
will take on the whole appearance and characteristics of the
female. If a testicle is implanted in a male eunuch the func'
tioning of the male will be brought into expression.
The normal man is one with normal male gonads. The
normal female is one with normal gonads of the female. The
manly man and the womanly woman are the normal func­
tioning man and woman.
Eunuchs have more brittle and weaker bones than nor'
mals. The ovaries regulate the lime distribution in the fe'
male. Excessive pregnancies cause the terrible cases of oste'
omalacia or soft bone deformities that are so common in the
densely populated districts of Europe and Asia. The fre'
quent pregnancies use all the lime reserve and the bones suf'
fer. Many women suffer with teeth trouble during pregnan'
cy. In the males the testes (also called interstitial glands)
regulate the lime of the bones and strength and stability of
the bones. The powerfully boned male is usually very virile
sexually.
Some of the endocrines act as accelerators to the sex
glands and some act as inhibitors. The thymus is said to hold
the sex in abeyance and the adrenals accelerate the sex ex'
[ 37 1
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
pression. The thyroid and pituitary also play a great role in
the expression of sex.
The prostate gland, which is the storehouse for the seminal
fluid, lies at the base of the bladder and surrounds the neck
of the bladder. Its complete function is not understood, but
it must have some influence upon the nervous system for
when it becomes inflamed the man becomes irritable, despond'
ent and even suicidal. The author has restored many men to
normal activity and function by treating the prostate. Sexual
excesses are supposed to be largely the cause of enlargement
of the prostate, as also is gonorrhea with its after effects.
The ovaries are supposed to erupt an ovum every 28 days
which is taken up by one of the fallopian tubes and conduct'
ed to the uterus where it must meet the male germ (spermatO'
2,oon) if a new life is to be started. There is no stronger urge
expressed in life than the effort for the male and female
germs to meet. The breasts play an important part in the
female expression. They form the food for the newborn
child and they have an endocrine faculty that aids or nor'
malices the menstrual function.
The uterus is the female sex organ where the foetus
(child) is developed and prepared for its advent upon this
sphere. Just what the endocrine influence is, science has not
yet found positively, but we do know that when a woman
has an inflamed uterus, she is irritable and usually depressed
and generally neurasthenic. There is an intimate alliance be'
tween the post'pituitary and the uterus. A few drops of
post'pituitary extract injected in the circulation will cause
intense contraction of the uterus. This knowledge has been
of great value to the obstetrician in the delivery of the child
and holding the tone of the viscera. The reasoning mind
cannot yet conceive how or why at just the correct moment
there is freed in the system an excess supply of this post'
pituitary endocrine substance that finds its way to the uterine
[38]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
cells and causes rythmic contractions and thus expels the
child and contracts all those blood vessels of the uterus that
have been doing such big work for nine months.
The Thymus Gland
The Thymus gland lies just below the thyroid gland and
behind the upper chest bones. There is not enough known,
as yet, of the action of the thymus but it seems to be the
dominating gland of child growth before the time of puberty.
It inhibits the activities of the testicles and ovaries. Cas-
tration causes persistent growth of the thymus. Removal of
the thymus or its inhibition by the X-ray hastens the de­
velopment of the gonads. The continuance of the thymus
after puberty causes peculiar actions of sex expressions. Re­
pulsive and degenerative practices come invariably from thy­
mus-centric persons. The thymus prevents differentiation
and stops the transforming into positive sex expressions,
either of male or female. Feeding tadpoles thymus substance
prevents the evolvement or differentiation of the tadpole into
a male or female frog. In thymo-centric persons we get the
homo-sexual cases. The male does not become fully male and
as there is so much of him still potentially female he will care
more for the society of the male than for the female. The
female will still be potentially male and so enjoy the society
of the female most. Our degenerates and criminals come
mostly from thymus-centric persons. The thymus seems to be
the child body-builder, supplying many of the elements that
build the structure. The thymus begins to regress at puberty
so it is supposed that the gland is the gland of childhood
growth. In animals whose thymus has been removed the lime
or calcification processes become retarded. The thymus
seems to dominate the lymphatic system.
[39]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
The Parathyroids
The parathyroids are composed of four tiny glands, as
large as wheat seeds, in or near the thyroid gland. Removal
of the parathyroids is followed by great excitability of the
nervous system. The action is much as if an overdose of
strychnia had been taken. They are called the glands of tet­
anus. The chief function seems to be to control the calcium
metabolism, or the lime salts of the system. These glands
seem to be necessary to the steadiness of nerve and muscle
control. They seem to be the agents of detoxication. There
is always a lack of parathyroid endocrine secretion in lock­
jaw, epilepsy, paralysis agitans and convulsions of epilepsy.
Other Glands
The Pancreas is the controller of sugar metabolism. This
gland has a duct that carries its secretion to the intestines
where its enzymes control and complete digestion.
The spleen is a ductless gland of which little is known
except that it plays a great part in the detoxication of the
system.
The liver is one of the most important glands of the sys­
tem. It is the storehouse and the clearing-house. It is here
that the food is finally prepared for its advent in the circula­
tory system and where the broken down particles of the sys­
tem are renovated and again made fit for use if possible. It is
a gland of internal and external secretion. The external secre­
tion is bile and is thrown by a duct into the digestive tract.
The internal secretion is sent direct into the circulation.
The kidneys are glands of excretion, mostly, as far as
known. There are some investigators who claim that they
also supply an endocrine substance that affects the general
system.
The lymph glands are chains of glands connected by lymph
ducts and are scattered throughout the whole system. The
f 4 0 ]
G L A N D S — OUR I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
lymph ducts are a system of vessels that carry the broken
down particles of tissues and the food lymph back to the
liver where the final renovation takes place. The various
glands along the chain of ducts have a renovating power and
evidently have activities that are not well understood.
Too much food and refuse, with poisons of some kind,
often cause enlargement of these glands and make good foci
for tuberculosis and cancers. The writer has seen many cases
that seemed like tuberculosis of the lymph glands entirely
recover from regulating the food supply and stopping auto'
intoxication.
The salivary glands are the glands of the mouth that pour
out the saliva and start the starch digestion of the foou and
maintain moisture of the mouth and throat.
V V V
[ 41 J
CHAPTER IV
An Introspect—The Mystical Laws
HEN one studies the action of the physical expres'
sions of man it almost makes one feel that man is
purely animal or physical or mechanistic, but more
careful analysis proves that man is more than mere'
ly physical. To play, to work, to reproduce are
common to man and animals. To create is human
only and is the link between the human and the Divine.
As we said before we cannot conceive of a creation without a
Creator. How could we have all the immutable laws that
control all creation without a consciousness greater than our
own to evolve all this? W e have, as yet, sensed no human
consciousness that seemed able to evolve all the vast universe.
That it was all chance is equally impossible to conceive. W e
cannot help sensing that some vast force or consciousness is
expressing itself.
Man seems to be a consciousness within this vast con'
sciousness that is ever trying to express himself, sometimes
intelligently and more often blindly. W e know that there is
an intelligence or consciousness within man that is higher
than the mere animal. To find that higher consciousness and
intelligence is man’s supreme work at present. “Know thy'
self” has been the adage for centuries. Our great desire
should be to know and when we k.now, to transmit the
knowledge to higher planes of expression.
As we learn the laws of the lower forms of life we are
learning the actions of the higher forms, for the teaching
“As above so below and as below so above” becomes very
vital as we gain more and more knowledge and wisdom. The
[ 43 ]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
deeper we peer into the mysteries of Nature the more we are
reminded that the four fundamentals mentioned in the fore'
word are true and that every phase of life’s expression is
within the fundamental laws.
Man is linked by the tie of cell, blood, bone to every ex'
pression of life in the sea, jungle, forest, plains and cities.
Man is a branch of the tree of animal or beast nature. But
there is more than beast there. Every cell of the body has
its consciousness and knows what to take as food and what
to eliminate. The liver cells have the liver-cell consciousness.
The muscle cells have the muscle'cell consciousness. The skin
cells have a consciousness quite different from the liver,
muscles or any other cells and know how to act as skin'cells
and would be lost if transferred to the liver or the muscle.
Man is a differentiation from other animal forms and con-
sciousness. He is all right as a man but all wrong if he tries
to be a lion, or a horse or fish. Man must be true to the im'
pulses or consciousnesses that have built him so far in his
development. He is still bound by his needs and the needs
of his ancestors which function through his endocrines—the
ductless glands. His hates, loves, superstitions, food desires,
lusts still dominate him largely. Slowly, oh, so slowly, he is
seeking freedom from his limitations. Reason and spiritual
guidance take long to establish. That something called the
Spirit of Christus is so slow in developing in man.
As we begin to understand the full evolving force of the
endocrines we will gain true freedom and soul growth. Rea'
son and the Divinity within must become the guiding force
of man. Man must have freedom for himself and for his
fellow man. In the ages past man has enslaved his fellow
man and lived a predatory life. There have been those high
up and those far down. It is time for the law of normals and
this will come as we gain knowledge of the laws of building
normals in physique, mind and spirit. W e must know the
[44]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
laws of involution, evolution and continuous life. As we
study the endocrines we know that man can be the architect
of his own destiny. Mystical Science will do more for the
upbuilding of man than has been done by the religions of the
world. Religion is the expression of but one phase of man’s
existence. Mystical Science, such as Rosicrucianism, reaches
all the phases of man’s functioning and being.
Science has taught us positively that man’s physical form
and mental attainments are controlled by his endocrines
which are the products of the ductless and other glands of
the body. The length of limbs, the kind of face, the shape of
the pelvis, the color of the skin, the tone of the muscles, the
mental activity, the inheritance, all are because of the endo-
crines. Races are small or large according to the actions of
the endocrines which in turn are influenced by environment.
Napoleon shortened the stature of the men of France by
the killing off in wars of the biggest men so only the smaller
men could breed and reproduce. Also the nervous strain on
the adrenals and other glands of both men and women in­
hibited the proper growth of the offspring.
How shall we build the bodies and characters of men? Do
you know of a better way than to study and know the order­
ly arrangement of the forces expressed in man — which is
mystical science — and being guided by the truths there
found?
So far we have treated the glands as if each stood out
separate from the rest, but they never function separately.
Each influences the rest of the chain. A physical shock or
mental shock will soon involve all.
The endocrines are the directors in the corporation of
organs and tissues and consciousness of the being called man.
There are sub-committees that control certain organs. The
growth of the brain is presided over by the adrenal, thymus,
thyroid and pituitary. They decide the size, the number of
[ « ]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
cells, convolutions and speed of its chemistry or action. The
sugar metabolism is presided over by the pancreas, adrenals,
liver, thyroid and pituitary.
These glands or directorates may be co-operative or an­
tagonistic. The thyroid and thymus are antagonistic. One
inhibits the other (this is illustrated by feeding the tadpole
thymus to prevent differentiation and the feeding of thyroid
to speed his development).
The thyroid and the pancreas are antagonistic.
The thyroid and the ovaries are co-operative. The pitui­
tary and the thymus are antagonistic. The pituitary and the
adrenal cortex are co-operative on the brain and sex cells.
The ideal condition of mind and physique is when all the
endocrines have a correct balance. This is called “Harmon­
ium” by the Rosicrucians, when their interplay is normal.
That would require normal environment. While normal en­
vironment would seem like Utopia yet we must have the
creative mind to try and develop the correct environment.
W e have no other way of function or expressing self but
through the body and mind. Mind is but a consciousness.
It is not something separate from our being.
W e have two minds in our being: One is the reasoning
mind and is called the conscious mind; the other is the sub or
unconscious mind. It functions when the reasoning mind is
at rest and is the building force of the body and mind. This
subconscious consciousness is the positive impelling force of
man and is expressed in the endocrine system. It is called
by scientists the vegetative system, and is supposed to be a
lower form of action. The vegetative or endocrine system
is the consciousness of the ages of involution and evolution
of man. The impelling forces within man come from these
endocrine expressions. Our emotions are the actions of the
endocrines. The reasoning mind has no emotions. In fact it
is a question if a man’s mind is as yet capable of any great
[46]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
reasoning, for all his reasoning is so tinged by the impulses
from the endocrines that they overshadow the supposed
reasoning. Most of man's reasoning is but seeking proofs to
go on thinking as he has in the past. If he is a Christian he
seeks proof for his belief and finds the answer in the impulses
of the past recorded in his endocrines. If he is a Jew the
process is the same, as also it is if he is a Buddhist or Mo­
hammedan. He loves and hates not by any reasoning power
of the mind consciousness but by the deep impulses of the
endocrines. W e unconsciously absorb the arguments that
come in our every-day contacts. That is environment.
W e must make a new era. An era where we will know
that as we have evolved we were dominated by bodily pro­
cesses, animal impulses, savage traditions, infantile impres­
sions and numerous traditional and conventional reactions,
and now we must use clear reason and clear thinking and
transmute the knowledge of the past into wisdom and spir­
itual life for the future. W e must leave behind the exhorta­
tions of the past as to the impurity and baseness and vileness
of the physical body. W e must learn that a clean soul must
have a clean body to function through, if the functioning is
to be clean. Men, like animals and plants, go on, generation
after generation, living as their progenitors have lived, for
the vegetative system has reasoned very slowly and has acted
only from necessity, but we have arrived where we know
that the past is not the sole standard for the future. Our past
is too full of fears and hates. W e need to become truly mys­
tical and seek more light.
W e said before that the brain is not the exclusive seat
of the mind. It is only one unit of the intelligence system of
the body. The glands are the tuning keys that lighten up or
tighten up the driving forces of the system. This tone or
driving force of the system is called the kinetic drive and is
registered in the consciousness of the glands which is the
[47]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
so-called subconscious mind. This system is interrelated by
chemical processes and through ganglia of nerves of the sym­
pathetic nervous system to the solar plexus and other plexus­
es and the brain. Your wish or your will is not a thing of the
thinking mind, but is a matter of the standards of the glands
or endocrines, or the so-called vegetative system. If we know
a man's internal secretory composition we can predict very
accurately the physical, mental and spiritual makeup of the
man. Also the general lines of his life, disease, tastes, idio­
syncrasies and habits.
The past action of a man will give his endocrine standing.
Customs, morals, ethics are the endocrines. Our evolvement
is the story of the ductless glands, and the Cosmic mind will
be raised only as the power of the individual mind is raised
through the functioning of the endocrines and the reaction
upon the mind. Our thoughts affect the endocrines as also
the endocrines affect the mind or brain. Foul thoughts affect
the endocrines. Foul and decaying products of digestion act
upon the ductless glands or endocrines and may plunge the
person into deep melancholia. Narcotics may for a time
transport the person to realms of bliss through exhilarating
action upon the conscious and subconscious forces. A sud­
den word or shock may act as poison. Loves, hates, fears
have their depressing effect or exhilaration as the case may
be. Diseased endocrine glands will affect the thinking mind
of man and color his thoughts. Diseased gonads will cause
the mind to dwell on matters sexual. Diseased gonads will
cause irritability or a state of fear. Diseased thyroid will
cause depression if hypo-thyroid, and a greatly excited condi­
tion if the thyroid is a case of hyper-thyroid.
V V V
[ 4 8 ]
CHAPTER V
Types of Endocrine Persons
HE normally balanced endocrine human being is
rather rare: There are as many different types of
unbalance as there are endocrine glands. Our en­
vironment and possibilities for expression are still
too inhibitive. When man finds the freedom he is
ever seeking, then will he find balance.
The Thyroid-Centered Personality
The normal thyroid personality has bright eyes, good clean
teeth, symmetrical features, moist flushed skin and a tempera­
mental attitude toward life.
The hypo-thyroid or lack of thyroid personality is usually
below the average in height with a tendency toward obesity.
The complexion is sallow and the hair dry and the teeth ir­
regular. The extremities are cold and bluish, the circulation
poor.
The intellect is pretty sure to be dull unless the pituitary
is large; the mind may be fine but the energy will be always
lacking.
The hyper-thyroid (excessive thyroid) person is the
ruddy, live wire type. Active and energetic, fair complexion-
ed and magnetic. The thyroid regulates the speed of living.
It promotes the activity of the adrenals and in that way pro­
duces the activity of the system. The thyroid centered per­
son is usually the restless, active, perpetual worker who gets
up early, works all day until late at night, then goes to bed
and plans the work for the next day and then complains of
insomnia. These persons are very susceptible to shock and
[49]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
worry or grief and their friends will be surprised that such en-
ergetic persons should so quickly become invalids and subject
to various forms of psychosis, especially melancholia. Shock
inhibits the endocrine secretions, iodine, phosphorus, and
arsenic of the thyroid, and with it goes the break of normal
interplay between all the other endocrines, and an especially
live wire becomes derelict on the ocean of emotions.
Pituitary Centered Type
The hyper-pituitary or the sufficient or dominant type is
usually large with large, long bones and the frame is dom-
inantly “bony.” The eyes are wide apart, face broad, teeth
broad, large and unspaced. The chin is usually square and
protruding. Large feet and hands and early growth of hair
on the body and a thick skin. Usually well sexed and aggres-
sive and precocious and self-contained. There is usually an
acute sense of rhythm. The features are not usually symmet­
rical. Abraham Lincoln is the extreme type of the pituitary
centered person.
The hypo or inferior pituitary type is small, sometimes
with very delicate skeleton, rather prone to fatty tissues and
weak muscles, with prominent or protruding upper jaw, dry
skin, small hands and feet, abnormal desire for sweets, sub­
normal temperature, pulse, and blood pressure, with poor
control of the vegetative (ductless gland) system, mentally
sluggish, dull, apathetic and backward, losing control quick­
ly, crying easily, discouraged quickly and having no stamina.
In the pituitary centered person much depends upon the
sella turcica or the cradle of the gland, whether large and
roomy or small and restrictive. Also the other glands’ devel­
opment aid or retard pituitary development.
Much depends on whether the anterior pituitary or the
posterior pituitary is dominant. In the male the anterior
should be dominant, and in the female the posterior. Also
[50]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
with the anterior pituitary the testes should be allied and
with the posterior pituitary the ovaries should be conjunctive
or allied. The anterior pituitary and the ovaries dominant
would not be a good combination. It would make the mascu'
line woman. The posterior pituitary and the testes dominant
would make the feminine man.
When the posterior pituitary dominates in a woman and
there is good ovary support, the build will usually be rather
slight and delicate, the skin soft, moist, roseate. There will
be a fondness for children with rather an emotional tendency,
in fact the ideal feminine type of woman. The unstable post'
pituitary female is unstable in all of her expressions. Craves
excitement, constant change and a new pleasure every
minute.
Wars, excessive excitements, excessive sex sensualities,
improper dress, improper foods have produced many unstable
post'pituitary types.
Many men are post'pituitary centered and are often the
poetic type, the musicians and very emotional. They are
usually short, round and stout. Here we have the henpecked
husbands and lovers. They often are beautiful characters,
but lack aggressiveness. They should be understood, not
bullied. Many women are anterior pituitary centered and so
become the aggressive type and fill men’s places in the busi'
ness world. They too should be understood and not abused.
Adrenal Centered Type
Hairy, dark, masculine, primitive and strong. Here we
have the slave driver for he has such a sufficiency of driving
force he can drive others. Among the high salaried persons
and men of great energetic positions we have the adrenal
centered type. The adrenals, in conjunction with the pineal,
control the pigmentation or the darkening of the skin. The
dark skinned and red haired persons are typically the fiery
1
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
adrenal centered persons. In persons that lack adrenal secre'
tion influenza or diphtheria are most easily contracted. They
have a lack of immunizing force. The person that has a good
adrenal supply with good thyroid and pituitary action can
lead the world. He can be a master among men. Brain fag
is often due to adrenal fag. The adrenal type among women
is masculinoid.
Moles on the skin are the product of the adrenals. The
adrenal insufficient is weak, irritable, lazy and apt to be
neurasthenic, and has loss of appetite and a general lack of
response to stimuli of all kinds. Growth is slow in an adrenal
insufficient and he cannot be driven or hurried. Children that
lack the adrenal secretion before puberty often awaken to
good energy when the rest of the endocrines develop—espe'
dally the sex glands. This fact should be understood by the
educators of the land. The children that have not a sufficient
supply of adrenal secretion cannot learn well and cannot be
driven to learn. They will lack also the iodine and phosphorus
supply of the thyroid endocrine secretion and thus the brain
conductivity or the registering force in the brain will not
be there and you cannot expect a child to register impulses
unless the medium for impression is supplied. You would no
more expect the phonograph receiving horn to register the
vibrations of sound without the wax or composition plate
for the needle to act upon than you would expect a mind to
register without the material on which to register. Educa'
tors have much to learn from the endocrine system. The edu'
cators have acted upon the supposition that the brain was a
recording disk upon which they could pour impulses and
have them register. The iron, the phosphorus, the lime salts,
and all the subtle agencies of the endocrines must supply
sufficient balance or the brain and general kinetic forces can'
not act. Schools, like churches, have been places for inhibb
tions instead of activities along the natural paths of expres-
[52]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
sion. The hope for the future in education and religious ex-
pression is for the doctor, teacher and the preacher to pool
their knowledge and forces and educate along the lines of
least resistance, which is nature’s way toward full expression
of consciousness.
Gonad Centered Type
This subject cannot be adequately handled in a book for
the general public until the general mind is less sensual in its
outlook.
It is the sex glands that make the male and the female
types of person. Masculinity and femininity are expressions of
the interplay of all the internal secretions. The testes and
ovaries only give certain tendencies. There is no absolute
masculine or absolute feminine, for there is still much of both
within us. This will be understood if the reader will remem­
ber the action of the pituitary gland in its anterior and pos­
terior aspects. The testes and the anterior pituitary make
the dominant masculine person and the posterior pituitary
and the ovaries make the dominant female. When the thymus
gland has prevented the full development of the differentiated
sex glands then we get continuation of the two sex expres­
sions within the one person. Here we get the homo-sexual
person. (See thymus gland.)
Sex seems to be due to chemical reaction, and depends
upon the number of chromosomes in the cell of the egg. The
male has 22 chromosomes and the female has 24 chromosomes.
Also lime salts play a great or dominant role in the develop­
ment of man and woman. The male is more stable in lime
salts action. The female is more unstable because of the
periodicity of her life—menstruation, pregnancy and lacta­
tion. These draw on the lime salts reserve. The male is
bigger and stronger because of these facts. The eunuch is
one in whom sex has never developed because of castration,
[53]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
and he is always childish in feature and mind yet reaches
senility when yet young. He does not have the lime salts
that go to making stability. There are also infantiloids, who
are persons that have not been castrated yet are infantile in
sex development. They are much like the eunuch. W e also
find infantiloid tendency is invariably toward homosexuality.
Homosexuality is defined as the desire to associate with one’s
own sex or where sex pleasure is most greatly expressed with
one of the same sex.
History tells us of various cults of homosexuality. In
many cases homosexuals were produced by unnatural means
of inhibitions and sex irritations until all natural sex expres-
sions were impossible. These were used in religious orders
or as prostitutes for orders or sects. Even to this day there
are religious orders that consider it a part of their religion
absolutely to inhibit every sex impulse, and while these orders
contain many brilliant men, for they work off their sex
energy in mental attainments, the average person of the cults
is nervous, suspicious of all men and women, and becomes
very self-centered and very rarely becomes a great leader of
men. Real “he” men do not readily follow a feminine or
suppressed type of man. Neither will really feminine women
follow or respect the feminine type of man. Men with strong
anterior pituitary, strong adrenal glands and weak sexual
glands are apt to be very cruel and destructive in their ex­
pressions. Repression in the male will often start the feminine
trend and in females start the masculine trend.
The ideal normal man is the man with strong sex power
and a well developed anterior pituitary with the balancing
power of the post-pituitary normal, and strong adrenals.
This is the man that will be creative in his work, kind in his
actions and yet have a driving force that will meet and break
down all barriers to his progress. This is the type of man that
will be loved by both men and women. He will be a man’s
[ 54]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
man up to higher planes, for he himself will be constantly
man and also a woman’s man. He is the type that will live
striving for that which is best and highest. In him will be
the poetic genius that drives him ever on and on. He will be
able to realise the four great principles of life and can trans-
mute his knowledge into building his physical, emotional,
mental and spiritual expressions to the very highest. He will
become the super man and then the master.
And similarly will evolve the woman who is truly feminine
and well balanced in the sex and other endocrine glands. This
truly feminine woman will be the medium for unborn lives
to enter this sphere and through her, in conjunction with the
perfect type of male, the incoming life will not be handi-
capped but will be free to evolve as the Creator has directed.
The history of man’s expression on this earth has been
one of cycles of profligate abandon to excesses followed by
periods of terrific inhibitions. After an age of wanton ex­
cesses there went forth from M t. Sinai the command of
“Thou shalt not,” and due to misinterpretation there follow­
ed a period of asceticism and inhibitions that we are still suf­
fering from. These thunderings from Mt. Sinai have been
interpreted to mean that all physical expressions were impure
and unpleasant in the sight of God, and yet this same God
by the same teachings caused all the impulses that drove men
on to expression. Science will soon step in and by natural
teaching will bring mankind to a realization that every ex­
pression of consciousness may and must be pure and uplift­
ing. Man’s creative force is essentially a pure force and just
as necessary and sinless as the eating of food. Eating of food
may be as unclean and excessive as the sex force. The young
men and women have not been taught to know and live
their creative lives. They have learned to sneak and steal and
abuse their God-given forces. W e have treated our hogs and
cattle better than our children. To teach children simply to
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
suppress all their lives is as productive of results as to try
to blanket the crater of Vesuvius to keep it from erupting.
The eruptions will come and the cities will be destroyed.
Science will teach how to stabilize man's excessive vegeta'
tive (endocrine) system and produce a race of balanced men
and women. Our instincts, which are the subconscious in'
telligences of the ductless glands, will lead us on to normal
expression if they are not wrongly inhibited. W e have been
taught to live “by faith alone” and I do not belittle faith
when I also demand that I may be led to live by the law of
all life, which is the law of action and reaction, or the law
of cause and effect. Rosicrucians call this “Karma.” Man
can understand the creative laws if he will only study and
learn.
The secondary characteristics of the male are: Hair on
the face, skin coarse and lean, muscles powerful, bones heavy,
bass voice and generally aggressive.
The secondary characteristics of the female are: Hairless
face, skin fine and plump, relatively weak, bones light, treble
voice and usually reserved. Woman’s expressions are rhyth'
mical. They act with the tide and moon phases. This may be
traced to the posterior pituitary which in turn may be traced
to the time when the pineal gland was an eye.
That creative force of man is largely centered in the sex
endocrines is proven, for in all eunuchs that were so made
before the sex ever developed, there has been no creative
energy ever developed. In the past there have been many
cults to inhibit sex expression but for the future, science will
teach that he who inhibits all the endocrine impulses of his
being will be as impure and unholy as the being who indulges
in excesses. The mind and higher spirit of man cannot deveh
up when the prime creative force is destroyed. (In a later
chapter we will show that sex expression is not mere copula'
tion.) All the endocrine expressions should be pure and not
[ « ]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
excessive. Man cannot evolve through lusts or excesses nor
through inhibitions.
Just at present there is a frantic effort being made by
some men and some doctors to find the perpetual fountain of
youth and some think they have found it in the gland trans­
planting process. It is the usual fool effort of men to outwit
the laws of nature. Transplanting of an ovary or a testicle
may give added impetus to the sex expression, but in the long
run it must only wear out the general system the faster. It
will be the plaything of the idle rich and sensational doctors
for a time, and it may possibly add a few months or even a
year or so to the sense pleasures of the few who can pay for
the mutilation of some poor unfortunate, but the immutable
law of “Karma” will not be made sport of, nor can it be
cajoled by money. The “Temple of Myself” is holy ground
to our way of thinking and the effort to find ways to con­
tinue mere sensuality is very disgusting to us. The endocrines
that are not abused will stay fine until very old age.
W e do not wish to say much about treatment with endo­
crine products which is getting to be the rage at present by
doctors and by quacks or proprietary concerns. W e wish to
give this warning that it is best to go very carefully. If you
have any endocrine trouble consult a man or doctor who real­
ly has made a study of the subject. The mere feeding of a
gland product cannot correct the trouble. There is some law
of life being violated when the supply is not normal. The
thing to do is to find what law is being violated, then correct
that and then find the best method of arousing the forces
within the glands. It may be that all that is needed is mental
or emotional calm. It may be that exercise or more sunlight
and air is needed, or it is just possible that you are using your
vitality too fast and are in the state of “Fight and Flight.”
It may be that you do need some endocrine products, but it
is not safe to use them indiscriminately. The science of sup-
[ *7]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
plying deficient endocrine substances is not fully developed.
The object of this story of the endocrines is to make the laity
a little more familiar with the building forces within the hu'
man temple and the sacredness and the possibilities of life's
evolvement.
Thymus Centered Type
Up to the time when the permanent teeth are through,
the thymus is the dominant gland. This age is to six or seven
years and here the child form is very alike in both sexes.
Then slight differentiation begins though no marked
changes take place until the time of puberty. A t this time
the thymus functions less and less and the sex and other
glands begin a greater development. When the gonads are
fully established, the thymus is supposed to have become im
active. But often the thymus goes on functioning for some
unknown reason (probably some inherited trait or lack of
sex growth) and then we have a person whose whole life
will be dominated by the thymus gland (Thymo'centric).
The features will stay rounded and childlike. The rugged'
ness of the sexual or pituitary type will be missing. In this
type we get the “angel children” that are so delicate and fair
of skin and features that they seem to be not of this earth,
and their movements are all grace. Novelists seem to delight
in describing this type of child. It is not a normal child.
The thymus centric is handicapped for life’s stress as the
body is usually not strong and is subject to being easily
shocked.
It is the proverbial “good” child that “dies young.” They
often die suddenly and without apparent reason. They do
not stand operations well. Puberty is hard to be established
in one of this type.
There is still some disagreement as to the action or lack
of action of the thymus after puberty. The most common
[ 58]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
opinion seems to be that a persistent thymus after puberty
tends toward producing the feminine expression in the male
and the masculine expression in the female. That is, a par'
tial castration takes place. Increasing the interstitial secre'
tion of the male thymo'centric will establish a better mas'
culinoid, and supplying the female interstitial secretion will
establish a better balanced female. The thymo'centric is to be
pitied and science will soon come to his aid. The thymo'
centric will often wonder, and so do all his associates, why he
is not like others. There is the peculiar complex that the
male thymo'centric will want the society of the male more
tha the society of the female which is not the case with the
normal male. The normal male naturally seeks the female
companion. The thymo'centric female will have the complex
of preferring the female society to that of the male. The
normal, fully developed female will naturally desire that the
male will seek her and desires male companionship.
Homosexuality (desires for one’s own sex) may be con'
cealed, but it often is frankly conceded. This sex complex
complicates the social adjustment of the person. It often
and usually makes it difficult to train the boy in the male
expression of his life, be it play or work, and the girl stays
hopelessly “Tom boy.” The pituitary also seems to be unable
to function properly to assist the person to correct reactions.
This child will be apt to be a late childhood bed'wetter and
will have a very small sense of the proprieties of life. In this
class we get the pathological liar or unconscious liar and the
child that will steal and promise not to do it again and in a
few moments do the very thing again. There is no sense of
responsibility. He may not be vicious but is just generally
irresponsible. Even the tissues are unstable and subject to
tuberculosis, meningitis and all children’s diseases.
The author personally knew a lawyer who was a typical
thymo'centric case. Even in common conversation the man
[ 59]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
would lie when the truth would have been far better. He
had the typical rounded child features though of rather tall
stature. He was well developed mentally and a good talker,
but irresponsible. He was quite the Oscar Wilde type. His
irresponsible habit of life caused him to be sent to the peni-
tentiary. W e now know that the man was not really crim-
inally inclined, but this undeveloped side of his life was his
downfall. The time will come when we will treat as sick, the
morons, the endocrine deficients and most of the men that
we now condemn to prison for life and make brutes of. The
spiritual vision will give us the insight to the actions and re'
actions of life expressions.
W e will some day know how to develop the sex and pitui­
tary glands and endocrines so as to cure the thymus dom­
inant case. It is in these thymo-centric cases that we get men
that love men, and women that “marry” women. The thymo-
centric is apt to be generally weak and knock-kneed, flat-
footed, fragile, with poor circulation and handicapped for
life. It is claimed that alcoholics, drug habitues, criminals and
degenerates belong largely to this class or type. There is no
stability and so an ever restless seeking for something to
satisfy and nothing satisfies. They are the misfits of life.
They do not fit into the normal scheme of things.
If the pituitary and the thyroid become well developed
the thymo-centric person may become rather brilliant. This
lawyer we mentioned was very brilliant but very eccentric.
W e find a great many epileptics among this type. Napoleon
was somewhat the thymo-centric type though his anterior
pituitary gland was his driving force. When that failed him
he failed. Napoleon was an epileptic. He had small sex de­
velopment. He had no real love for women. They were
merely a convenience. His posterior pituitary was not well
developed and his adrenals were, so he was cruel in makeup
and brooked no sentimental interference. He was not reli-
[ 6 0 ]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
gious. Many of the great adventurers and restless experu
menters of the world were thymo'centrics. Mohammed was
an epileptic.
It is claimed that our murderers and suicides come from
this type of beings.
Oscar Wilde was another type of the thymus centered
person. He was brilliant and wrote some of the most beauti'
ful things in the English language, yet he was sent to prison
for his homosexual practices among boys.
Most of the thymo'centrics are not brilliant. They are
more commonly the common brutal type of misfits of life.
Improper mating of parents often is the cause of the
thymo-centrics. As two positives will usually produce a
negative, so if two pituitary centered persons mate and re-
produce, the offspring is very liable to be thymus centered.
This may explain why so often the offspring of two very
brilliant people will be so common and irresponsible. Or two
money'mad adrenal centric persons will have a puny, weak
(mentally and morally), degenerate child. The normal off'
spring can only come from a mating of the normal male and
normal female.
V V V
[61 ]
CHAPTER VI
Continuation of Types
S W E study the actions of the endocrine system we
realize that it is due to their unbalance or abnormal
action that we have the various abnormal human
beings. When the building and activating forces of
the ductless glands (endocrines) are normal we have
normal human beings. We will note some of the
outstanding peculiarities of unbalanced endocrines.
Pituitary centered persons are liable to headaches and eye
trouble, for in mental activity the blood is sent to the brain
more intensely and the pressure on the pituitary is the result.
Nietzsche was very brilliant but unstable pituitary'center
ed and was subject to intense headaches and later in life was
mentally unbalanced.
Darwin was a neurasthenic pituitary'Centered person. His
adrenals were very lacking in power. After his gonads be'
came less active his adrenals became more active and he was
able to do more work. Men and women often are more
vigorous after the menopause.
Many neurasthenics are pituitary'Centered with failure of
normal balance of the thyroid, adrenals and gonads.
One of the finest pituitary'centered persons of history was
Abraham Lincoln, but he was endowed with wonderful bah
ance in all the other glands. He was strong and powerful,
yet gentle, tender, patient and kind. It is the unbalanced
person that is erratic, cruel, coarse and undependable.
The time is not far distant when criminals, degenerates
and the outcasts of society will be understood and taught to
take their places where they can function in harmony with
( 63 ]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
their surroundings or be reclaimed so as to take their place
with normal men and women. A man or woman who is sub
fering from lack or excess of the endocrines that cause ter'
rific urges, is sick and needs an understanding doctor, not a
jailer. They spread disease as a typhoid or a diphtheria car'
rier spreads disease. Would you put a typhoid carrier in
prison? No! You would cure the trouble.
So with people that have unnatural urges and tendencies.
The cause of the unbalance will be found in the endocrine
system. The cure will also be found there, and not in prison.
Life is action and will be expressed. To find normal expres'
sion is man’s duty and pleasure. Abnormal expressions of
life do not tend to pure happiness. Normal expressions do.
Every step of the daily routine of life, every phase of happu
ness, of thought, or feeling is an episode in the endocrine
reaction of the individual. How can the mind work normally
when the factors that build the mind are defective? The em
docrines build the mind. The endocrines build the physique.
Your evolvement depends upon the activities of the endo'
crines. You are building for eternity now. If physical science
is true in its claim that nothing is ever destroyed, that it
only changes form, and if metaphysical science is true in its
postulate that life is continuous, then we must go on, reason'
ing from the law of action and reaction or cause and effect,
that the causes that we start now will be the effects of the
future. Who can tell us positively where the effect ends?
Our teachers and preachers need to know the laws of the
endocrines as well as the doctors. The teacher that can
understand the cause of the impulses or lack of impulses of
the children in the school room can lead and control the chib
dren through a grind that was not unlike the old cideumill
where large, small, wormy, bitter and sweet apples were
ground to a homogeneous mass and squeezed until dry. We
need a system that will grade the pupils much as a prune or
[64]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
orange grader, where every grade will be put where it be'
longs and can be properly handled. Under the correct system
the culls can be taken care of and put to such use as they are
fitted for. The analogy is not absolutely correct, for children
are not like apples or oranges, they have souls that need de'
veloping and must have a chance. If the thymus gland is at
fault it can be helped by shrinking the gland with X'ray or
feeding gland substance. If there is sex irritation the cause
should be found and removed. If the cradle of the pituitary
gland is too small (the X'ray will reveal it), then feed tissue
salts or better foods for developing endocrines. Study the
thyroid for excess production or lessened supply of iodine or
phosphorus or arsenic.
The psychoanalysts claim that all our urges come from the
sex complex. There is still a doubt if this is true. But it has
been proven amply that it is the sex forces that produce the
creative and imaginative qualities of mankind. Also the judg'
ments. A castrated person has no will power or energy. He
also has no judgment, so we know that the gonads play an
important part in will and judgment.
The constructive imagination is due to a good balance
between the anterior and posterior pituitary gland, with cor'
rect sex balance. W e have thyroid moods, adrenal moods,
ante and post pituitary and gonad moods. When we get ab-
solute balance of the glands we will no longer have these
special moods.
There must be forces as much more subtle than the em
docrine as the endocrines are more subtle than the mind and
physique. May we not hope to find some day the subtle
forces that cause us to catch the thought forces that impel
us onward and then learn to build ourselves with positive'
ness? W e are still too unstable.
Man has evolved through the unconscious but it is now
time to aid by using the conscious. A wish is never born in
[65]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
the brain alone for the brain has no power to charge itself
with energy. It can only store and transmit, for the source
of energy is in the endocrines. The ancient philosophies
taught that Devachan (Heaven) was a place where the phys­
ical and emotional part of man had been cast aside and where
man lived in the mental state alone. All desire was cast aside
and life was just a contemplation. Thus man contemplated
until the desire came to enter again the realm of expression
for more knowledge and experience, and he again took on an
emotional or astral body and a physical body and descended
to the earth plane where he again mingled with the evolving
people and gained knowledge and wisdom and learned to
help his fellow men and become a master among men. Thus
he took numerous rounds on the “wheel of necessity” and
through vast cycles of experience he became as one that had
all knowledge and knew God.
One cannot contemplate the workings of the human in all
his phases and expressions without feeling that there are some
vast forces beyond the things that science has yet demon­
strated, and that we, as human beings, have a very intimate
connection with the ALL EXPRESSION.
W e believe that we have come closer to solving the con­
nection between the here and there, through the knowledge
of the endocrines, than through any other source. W e get
nearer to the soul of things. “Acuteness of perception,
memory, logical thought, imagination, conception, emotion­
al expression or inhibitions and entire content of conscious­
ness are influenced by the internal secretions.” (Berman)
Soul consciousness lies just beyond.
Though no wish is born in the brain it is through the
thinking mind that we will have to find balance and the final
uplift of this plan of action. When the thinking mind is
fully builded then we will be ready for meditation and trans­
muting the knowledge we have gained into wisdom. Through
[66]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
wisdom we may gain adeptship, which is real self-mastery.
The brain or thinking organ is builded and made active
through iodine, which gives electric conductivity, and
through phosphorus, which is one of the most vital ingredi­
ents of the brain. These are furnished by the thyroid gland,
so it must be healthy. The creative energy is furnished by
the sex glands and the pituitary gland, so it is important that
these be healthy and normal in action.
Fear, anger, hate and love, courage and desire for service
are of visceral and endocrine origin, but the brain or think­
ing mind is the recording place or the transmuting organ,
and like the phonograph record it can only register the im­
pulses that are sent to it and can only send out what it has
recorded and meditated on.
Hunger is not a cerebral manifestation. It is visceral. Fear
and anger involve the adrenals. They are the glands of com­
bat. Courage comes from a good anterior pituitary and
strong adrenals. The maternal instinct comes mostly from
the post-pituitary as also do the social and some of the
creative instincts. Sex libido and passions are related to the
testes and ovaries. Sympathy and curiosity are functions of
the pituitary. The instincts of self-display and self-effacement
and pride and shame are of thyroid origin. Thyroid is an
energy producer and we live fast or slow according to the
state of the thyroid. Memory is due to a good iron content
of the brain, and iron is a product of the thyroid. The pitui­
tary seems, however, to be the preserver of memory. A child
may have a good memory but poor judgment, for its pituitary
and gonads are not yet fully developed.
V V V
[ 67]
CHAPTER VII
Methods of Developing the Endocrine Glands
HE pituitary gland can be stimulated by deep nose
breathing. The Rosicrucians have taught this for
years and have proved it by their mystical exercises.
The blood circulation of the nose and the base of
the brain are intimately connected. Singing that vi­
brates the base of the nose and brain will vibrate
and stimulate the pituitary gland. The ancients pronounced
the sacred word so as to stimulate their vital forces. (The
Rosicrucians still use definite “vowel sounds” for this pur­
pose.) They even warned against pronouncing of the sacred
word by one who did not understand the potency of its
power.
The thyroid is the organ of emotion, so calm and poise is
essential to its development. Lately we have found that static
electricity and the X-ray can do much in stimulating and in­
hibiting the action of the thyroid. Well-balanced tissue foods
are necessary, such as fruits and vegetables.
As the driving force of the adrenals derive their power
from the thyroid iron, it is necessary that the thyroid be
normal and the fear and anger element be controlled.
There are two wrays of remaining young: One is by keep­
ing the thymus and pineal glands dominant and so being
juvenile and undeveloped, and the other way is to keep the
sex glands normal and able to function, and being fully ma­
ture. When society will attain a pure mental attitude toward
life's functions and when the subject of normal health can
be taught in the schools so the children will get a comprehen­
sive view of the building forces within them—the endocrines
[69]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
—then will the oncoming races become more mental and spir-
itual, for they will understand their impulses and control and
use intelligently the God-given forces within themselves. No
progress can be made, however, until the masses will under­
stand that the physical part of man and the physical func­
tions of man can and must be as pure as any mental and
spiritual expression of man. A pure soul can function better
through a pure body than through an impure or foul body.
The human body in its development unveils and reveals
the records of your past lives. W hat does your body reveal
to you? Purity, love, high-minded aspirations, sweetness of
contact with your fellow beings, or lust, greed, hate, sensual
gratification and ignorance?
If a child is well born and has the liberty to express itself,
its endocrines will most likely be normal. Of course, the
child must have normal mental and physical food. A judge
said recently that it is physical energy that drives lads into
mischief and crimes. Certainly it is physical energy that
drives on any child or grown person to self-expression of any
kind. The judge himself would not be a judge if he had not
had a superior energy that helped him to claim the place he
now occupies. See to it that the lads and lassies have a nor­
mal way of expressing their energies, for they are God-given
and they too may be judges or occupy prominent places. Do
not throw inhibitions about them until the forces within
them drive them on to criminality. Boys and girls are won­
derful imitators and they express life very much as their
grown-up brothers and sisters do. They are often not so dis­
creet and thus get into trouble.
Glands can only develop normally under normal condi­
tions. Energies pent up within a person will have expression
either openly or secretly.
Next to the food impulse is the sex impulse. Sex is the
creative force as we have said before. This creative force
[70]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
WILL NOT be denied if the person is to stay alive and
active. To suppress it would make a race of eunuchoids. W e
want a race of active, virile men and women. How can we
attain this? By giving the race ample opportunity to develop
its creative energies. Sex is expressed not only in copulation.
Sex expresses its energies in multitudinous ways. Play, fight,
study, painting, singing, decorating the body, religious fen
vors and catalepsis, football games, baseball games, bridge
parties, gambling, hard work, home life, etc.
Children and grown-ups that are denied all healthy forms
of expression will seek expression in secret, and that invari­
ably leads to the wrong use of the sex expressions—mastur­
bation and liaisons. These facts we know as true, for they
come from living in several communities where the young
were denied all dancing or any form of amusement, but go­
ing to church twice on Sunday and sitting still for two hours
of tirade, and all getting together of the young was by sneak­
ing when the old people were asleep, and the result was just
as we have stated.
There will be mighty few young people who will not be
eager to live splendidly, when they are taught the actual
truths of life and their driving forces that are trying to ex­
press themselves. They will give heed to the laws of cause
and effect and will hold their sex expressions to normal ex­
pressions, and thus gain control of themselves and their lives,
and live beautifully. W e must learn control and proper sex
use. Ignorance and complete inhibition or complete abandon
will not bring happiness. Knowledge and poise will do it.
All nature at this age is keyed to the law of sex. The
flowers, the plants, the insects, the animals and the human
animals are all living under this law. W hy should we not
study the law?
“The science of sex is to know how to produce the most
perfect bodies. The philosophy of sex is to know the purpose
{71 1
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
of bodies and make the best use of them. The religion of sex
is to lead quality to intelligently become unity." Science,
philosophy and true religion teach the purity of sex and by
this is our only hope of regenerating the race.
A scientist was once asked why he knew so much about
the fly. He said it was because he put himself into the con'
sciousness of the fly.
When we put ourselves into the full consciousness of man
we will know more of man. W e have been putting too much
consciousness into Gods, angels, fairies, genii, and super-
natural states and in lands, houses, food, fame, honor, cloth­
ing and GOLD. All these are good in their places but they
are not the most vital things of our expression. W e plead for
a fuller consciousness of TRUTH, KNOWLEDGE, W IS­
DOM and LOVE that will lead us on to greater unity with
the INFINITE INTELLIGENCE. W e must learn to cor­
relate all the forces within ourselves. The endocrines are our
building forces and through these we develop mental and
spiritual or creative power and all those who have knowledge
along these lines will be able to build themselves to a finer
state and help all the rest of the hungry humanity to evolve.
W e must evolve. It is the law. W hy wait to be driven to
evolvement, why not be aggressive in evolving?
We must learn the effects on us all (as individuals and
as races) of hate, fear, anger, jealousy, business worry, quar­
rels, shocks; and of hope, faith, happiness, laughter, service,
interest, religion; and of alcoholics, tobacco, teas and coffee,
drugs that are not foods; and of all pure thoughts and evil
thoughts and lusts and indiscretions and of a well-poised life.
W e must learn to be honest with ourselves. You cannot fool
the endocrines. You can radiate what you wish. The power
is within you.
[ 1 i ]
G L A N D S — OUR I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
The Temple of your Soul should be a pure temple. It
should be holy ground. It should be a temple of joy and hap­
piness. YOU can make it the Cathedral of your soul.
We must get away from the destructive forces of the
“Fight and Flight” evolvement. We cannot build the human
system and consciousness unless we learn to stop inhibiting
our natural forces. Sickness is but an inhibition of the
natural forces of man. There will be no sickness when man
finds mental and physical freedom. Wars brutalize men and
stop the normal interplay of the endocrines. The endocrines
will do their constructive work when the personality of man
gets out of the way. To construct building forces we must
use all the forces at hand. W e need to study the food prob­
lem and the clothing and housing problems. If we are to
utilize all possibilities to evolve super men we need to know
the constructive qualities of the endocrines substances as
food, of medicines that are constructive and surgery that is
helpful. Also the electrical and light, constructive and stimu­
lating forces. W e must learn to put aside the inhibiting
forces of wrong thinking. Many cults have within the last
few years been built up on the need of freeing the mind
forces. The medical man has fought these cults, not recog­
nizing that the urge for the freeing from thought-inhibitions
was deeper seated than any cult has yet expressed. The cults
have done much good by their teachings and yet (as ever
within a creed) there have been limitations fastened upon
these cults themselves by personalities that have all but de­
stroyed the really good effect of the teachings of the cults.
Spiritual and mental healing have very often caused a calm
within the person and in this great peace the endocrines did
their normal work, and so the person became healed. Func­
tional as well as organic diseases have been cured by the
calm of mental and emotional exaltation or peace. The ideal
doctor is one that knows all the forces of the physical body
[M 1
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
and also the activities and power of the mental and spiritual
and emotional planes. The perfect doctor or healer is like
the perfect man—still in the evolving.
To recognize that the healing or building forces are within
man and all they need is freedom for expression and maybe
a little stimulation from outside forces, is a vast step in ad­
vance. The doctor or healer can only help clear the way for
the forces within to work. The medical man has by his teach­
ings in sanitation and his scientific findings of the action of
the physical and endocrine forces and psychological actions,
given to mankind more than he can ever be repaid for. The
mental healers have given a new impetus to truths that were
lying dormant. All the findings of science and metaphysical
science need to be weighed and used when good. W e need
to develop good, common sense and reasoning force. Good
sense is the result of a good interplay of the endocrine forces.
Disease may be inhibited by drugs and also by mental pro­
cesses. But when the inhibition ceases then the disease is still
there. Just now auto-suggestion is the rage. In some cases
it may do good, but when it says there is no disease or there
is no pain, the pain may be inhibited, but if the laws that
produced pain are not corrected, the pain will manifest again.
A person can suggest to himself that he is on top of Mt.
Hamilton and keep suggesting for ever, but if he does not
obey the laws that take him to the top of the mountain he
will never get there. He can suggest to himself that he will
go to the top of Mt. Hamilton and thus start the forces that
will take him there. Here common sense and reasoning force
are needed.
W e need to learn the art of loving, for love is the great
constructive force, and so forcibly expressed by the great
teacher the Christ. Most expression of so-called love is but
sex sensuality. The art of loving, the art of being kind, the
art of giving service, the art of being, need to be taught in
[74]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
the homes and schools and in the churches. The Rotary Club,
the Lions’ Club, the Progressives and all the business men's
clubs need this teaching and realization as much as the art
of booming business and selling the town for publicity, etc.
Heaven could be started right here. All the needs for heaven
are right here.
Show us a man’s mystical philosophy and we will show
you how far that man has evolved. A man’s mystical philoso'
phy is his highest conception of life.
V V V
[ 7 5 ]
CHAPTER VIII
Examples of the Inhibitions and Exhilarations
of the Glandular System
N THE foregoing chapter we mention some of the
inhibiting forces such as hate, fear, etc., and love,
service, etc., and some of the narcotics. This book
does not pretend to be a classic or an exhaustive
treatise. It only hopes to stimulate further research
in the subject. To those of the laity who wish to
pursue the subject farther I would suggest Berman’s “Glands
Regulating Our Personality,” Macmillan Co. Also Lorand’s
books, and the writings of Soddy, Cannon and Crile.
W e will here show a few specific cases of the actions of
the glands under abnormal conditions.
One of the most pernicious influences upon the glandular
system is the excessive use of the cigarette, cigar or pipe. The
normal action of breathing or inhaling air is to supply the
iron of the blood with oxygen. Oxygen is absolutely neces-
sary in all the digestive and reconstructive processes of the
body. Scientists claim it is the life'giving force or the sub'
stance that IS, or produces life. All slow'burning fires or
incomplete combustion fires produce carbon monoxide gas,
one of the most deadly gases known. One part in eight
hundred parts of air will cause death to a person in one'half
hour. The exhaust from the automobile sends out large quan'
tities of this gas and in the early years of the use of the autO'
mobile many deaths were caused by starting the automobile
in a closed garage. The slow combustion of the tobacco pro'
duces carbon monoxide gas and this is inhaled by the smoker
and as this gas has a greater affinity for iron than has oxygen
[77]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
the oxygen is pushed aside and the carbon monoxide enters
the blood in combination with the iron and this combination
has a very deleterious action upon the glands of the system.
This is why the boy or girl who smokes excessively rarely has
energy. He or she is lazy as a rule, yet nervous and excitable
and lacks real driving force. The special gland affected is the
gonad. The oncoming race will positively be weakened by
excessive smoking. Experimentation with animals has proven
that animals subjected to smokes (simulating the smokes of
the human animal as much as possible) will after a certain
period of smokes, no longer breed. The time is coming when
men will no longer sit in smoke-laden rooms and inhale and
reinhale time after time smoke that has passed through other
nostrils and mouths and think it is the correct thing. Any
smoke that is inhaled whether cigar, pipe or cigarette has the
same effect.
Alcoholics have an action within the system because of
the action on the glands. When a man takes a drink of alco-
holies he may feel exhilarated. Why? Because it is a poison
and the one gland that is ever on the alert is the gland of
taste and smell — the pituitary, the subconscious brain. It
sends out an alarm or hurry call to all the rest of the glands
to get to work to expel the invader of the sanctuary. W hat
is the result when all the glands send out all their forces to
strengthen the citadel against the foe? An exhilaration. The
glands and cells of the body, that is the subconscious cells,
have a greater preserving sense for the man than the man’s
thinking consciousness has. If the man took only this one
drink maybe there would be no serious results, but the ig­
norant fool takes another, for the first seemed to do him
good, and another and greater call is sent out and so on,
drink after drink until the glands can no longer work fast
enough and become overwhelmed, and the man becomes
overwhelmed with the poison and we say he is drunk. The
[73]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
glands are like a faithful dog and no matter how they are
abused they will ever strive to save the system from serious
harm. They even may get so used to the alcoholics that they
will refuse to work until prodded by a drink or two.
So with all narcotics and drugs. There are times when
drugs and narcotics may bridge over a crisis, but curative
medicine must have a food value or stimulation that urges
the reconstructive forces of the body, which lie in the glandu-
lar system, to do their normal work.
Over-feeding and wrong feeding will produce a self-poison­
ing within the digestive tract (auto-intoxication) that will
do about the same to the system as alcoholics and narcotics.
The beginning of Bright’s Disease usually comes from an
abused digestive tract that has to throw off so much poison
through the kidneys that the kidneys become diseased and
can no longer function.
This form of trouble is very common with the business
man of America. Remember that hate, fear, excitement or
any strenuous depressing or fighting emotion stops the per­
istalsis of the digestive tract( the wave motion) and the food
is not carried on and digested as it should be. There is fer­
mentation and putrefaction and the product of this fermen­
tation (auto-intoxication) is carried through the system and
all the glands and tissues suffer and the friends often write
about an Inscrutable Providence that has carried a brother
away. An '"'Outraged Providence” would be a better sen­
tence. When business men leam a little about the wonderful
forces within them and maybe a little less about the fleeting
dollar that cannot bring health or happiness unless some
simple laws of Nature are observed, then we will have more
life and still enough dollars. Money cannot bring happiness.
It can only clear the way for happiness. Knowledge and wis­
dom only can bring real happiness. The peristalsis of the
bowels and the constructive and regenerating forces within
[79}
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
the liver are controlled by the adrenals primarily, and any
shock or overstrain, physical or mental, especially mental or
emotional, will stop the actions of the whole chain of forces.
Drinking, smoking and excesses of food are not a good
combination to take to a business where a clear head and
fine decisions are necessary. The example of the cat under the
fleuroscope will illustrate the condition of the business man’s
case. Feed a cat a barium meal and put her under the fleuro'
scope and you can watch the wave motions (peristalsis of
the bowels and as long as the cat is kept purring the peris'
talsis is not interrupted. But then pull the cat’s tail or prick
her with a pin and get her angry or distressed and the wave
motion stops at once and is not resumed until the cat is quiet
and happy again. It is the old “Fight and Flight” story. So
with the man or woman who is happy and contented, the
wave motion of the digestive tract will be normal, but as
soon as there is grief, fear, anger, worry, or any of the in'
hibiting emotions which stop the glands (adrenals, thyroid,
and pituitary) from acting then the peristalsis stops and we
have putrefaction, fermentation trouble, liver trouble, con'
stipation, etc. As long as the business man works under
hurry, anger, hate, fear, jealousy, etc. he will not be at his
best. He needs to learn to “purr.” It is time for man in his
evolvement to sacrifice the beast within himself and learn to
utilize the possibilities within him. There are too many
“Goliaths” (evil minds) clothed in brass armor (materialism)
trying to conquer the world, and we need more “Davids”
(pure minds) with five perfect stones (five perfect senses)
in their girdles ready to use in their slings with which to de'
stroy the “Goliaths.” Man needs to slay the Goliath within
himself and develop his five senses and still higher senses.
The business world is very slowly learning the power and
usefulness and beauty of cooperation. The slogan has been
that “competition is the life of trade”, but cooperation
[80]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
is the only salvation of trade. Suppose all the ductless glands
vied with each other in competition, what would be the re'
suit? Death of the individual. The glands of the system
are ever striving to act in harmony. It is man’s ignorance
and superstitions that keep him from working with this vital
force that lies within the glands. Man must learn to act in
harmony with the forces within himself. This is so trite it
seems foolish to say it, yet the vast majority of people are
absolutely ignorant of the vitalizing forces that allow them
to express life. Not only man as an individual, but man
as constituting communities, states, countries, nations, etc.
Man meets man in business. They still fight or flee. Man
meets as nation against nation. The same fight and flight
action. No co-operation. Always competition. Always in
high emotion of fight, fear, worry, competition, trying to de­
stroy the other one and getting destroyed. Animals seem to
live in greater harmony than men and nations. Men, com­
munities, nations, cannot evolve and grow finer when they
are not only trying to destroy each other physically, but they
are destroying the finer forces within themselves that would
build them to be finer communities and nations.
The ramifications of the actions upon the glands of the
system that build us are so subtle that it is necessary that we
know more about them. Every action of life of man is con­
nected with the glandular or constructive force of the sys­
tem. The fight between capital and labor is playing a very
great score in man’s evolvement. Capital is determined to
control the activities of business. It gets hard and calloused
in its attainments. Excessive money in families or groups
tends to dissipation, sex excesses and a general dwindling of
the vital (endocrine) forces of the family. These groups soon
die out, that is within a few generations. It also produces
egomania, that is an exalted opinion of self and families, and
[81 ]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
autocracy. Here we get the old autocracy of kings and the
nobility. The history of all these has been degeneracy.
On the other hand we have just now the autocracy of
labor to contend with. Another factor in labor and capital is
the efficiency craze that turns out as much as possible. This
has led to the attitude of the laborer taking no personal pride
in his work. His work is simply slavery to him.
No man can be absolutely healthy, physically or mentally,
if he has no joy in his work. Work without joy in the work
brutalizes man. The pituitary, adrenal and sex glands will be-
come less active and general stagnation of the whole system
will develop. Under these conditions man's lusts will become
aroused and as the higher creative force of man is not
aroused, the lower will dominate and idealism will cease with'
in the man. This may go on for some time, but eventually
man must evolve and the awakening will come and woe to
the forces that meet this aroused consciousness.
Some day we may get leaders of both capital and labor
that will have vision enough to know that their interests are
mutual and that work must be as joyous as the commanding
of industries, and then will the endocrine forces of man again
have the possibilities to evolve super'men.
W ars brutalize men and stop the play of endocrines.
There is always a wave of crime and brutality after a war.
The balancing forces of the endocrines have become dis'
turbed. All Europe is in a constant fear of war right now.
Wars never really decided any great matter. Wars are the
result of man’s endocrine unbalance. His lusts, his greeds,
his superstitions and hates. The emotional and mental state
of Europe is in complete unbalance.
A religion that teaches fear inhibits the endocrines and the
finer expression of the ideal. The teaching that man is born
sinful tends to make him so. The Temple of man is within
his body. Here he expresses what is good and what is bad.
[82]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
This “Temple of Myself” is sacred. Within this temple the
physical, emotional, mental and spiritual parts of man express
the glory of the Creator. W e repeat, we cannot conceive
this creation not having a Creator. Man is inherently pure
and his endocrines will build purely if allowed to do so. We
are here to learn to correlate the forces within us for they
are Divine forces. W e are also to learn to co-operate with
the forces within our brother man and all our environment.
Scientists tell us that man uses only about one-tenth of the
cells of his brain. They are all there to use. Man is not more
than one-tenth civilized. The endocrines have built us so far
but it will be the use of the brain that will complete man’s
evolvement into full consciousness. The endocrine glands
will build us normally when we learn to use our minds so as
to inhibit fear and all depressing emotions. Under the higher
attributes of life the vibrations or the life expressions are
normal and constructive.
Under a hopeful religion, a religion of peace and joy, the
endocrine forces are upbuilding. In a happy and peaceful
home the child will develop normally. In a home of quar­
reling and fighting, children cannot develop properly. Eating
should be done under happy conditions for, as we have ex­
plained, peristalsis and correct digestion cannot go on under
fighting or quarreling. In the average home of today the
meal time is the clearing house time for all the troubles of
the family. The time when children are scolded and even
punished. The writer once had a very sickly and nervous
child to treat and could not find the reason for the condition.
Happening to be in its home at a meal time for a few minutes
we saw the child eating nicely and it leaned over toward the
mother and asked a simple child question and the mother in­
stead of answering the question nicely, said “Shut Up” to the
child and hit her over the head with a cup she had in her
hand. W e then knew where the trouble came from. W e also
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
found that the husband and wife were constantly quarreling
and fighting and that was due to sex incompatibility. We
told the truth to the family and got discharged for the effort
though we found later, through a relative, that telling the
truth had good effect. In both the child and the parents the
endocrines were constantly abused and with terrific results.
Many a child is “Called Home” under such treatment.
Coffee and teas in excess disturb the endocrine function in
a similar way to alcohol and tobacco. Many a coffee drinker
has to have the stimulation of a cup of coffee in the morning
before the vital forces (the endocrines) wake up to work.
Thoughts are very vital things and have been amply
proven to be of constructive or destructive influence upon
the building and activating forces of man. Thoughts receive
their impetus from the endocrines and again react upon the
endocrines either for good or evil as the thoughts may be.
The first great urge within man is for food. This thought
remains dominant throughout life. This urge includes not
only actual things man puts into his mouth and stomach but
it includes the comforts of life as clothing, home, dainties and
all the refinements of eating. Much of man’s thinking is
about the getting and enjoying of food. The next great urge
is for sex which includes the union of male and female and
all love, parent-love, love of companionship, love of art, and
all emotional and physical activity. The Creator surely cre­
ated or evolved man in this way and so the original intent
must be pure. W e evolve fastest by giving service, by help­
ing each other. By expressing harmony, idealism, order,
beauty.
The Human Temple is sacred. W e must learn to build
well physically, mentally, emotionally and spiritually and
thus learn the Fatherhood of God, the brotherhood of man,
the continuous life and law of action and reaction—complete­
ly expressed life.
[84]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
Our endocrines are making our personality and the devel-
opment of our mental and spiritual expressions will make our
individuality. Too much of our teaching, in every line, makes
for suppression of individuality. The child at school must
learn and master or memorise many thoughts of other men
or teachers. In Sunday School or church the child, or even
grown person, must accept and believe the things told by the
teacher or priest or preacher. In the factory the worker must
do as instructed. All this kind of teaching makes automatons,
not thinkers. INDIVIDUALITY W ILL N O T BE DE­
VELOPED UNTIL THE PERSON CAN THINK. Many
persons think they think, but they really only think the things
they have memorized. Many educators, preachers, doctors,
lawyers, bankers can quote you the writings of great writers
and teachers and authorities and seem highly educated and
yet they never really thought an original thought nor ema­
nated an initial idea. W e believe in much reading but only
for new food for thought and individual expression in an
individualistic way. No person is educated until he can
think for himself. To have been through college is no indica­
tion that the person can think. Abraham Lincoln never went
through college yet he was one of the world’s foremost think­
ers. If much of the junk that is being poured into the heads
of our pupils of the present day could be ditched and for­
gotten and the pupils taught to develop the endocrine powers
within themselves and taught to develop the thinking along
the lines of their natural bents, then we could get a race of
thinkers. Our pupils are mostly poor imitators at present.
Purity of purpose and expression of life will come with free­
dom and naturalness of expression. The limitations that we
put on life distort and cripple the natural expressions.
Every man must learn to speak the language of his soul.
He will learn the language only as he learns the forces that
are building him and learns to interpret the urges within him.
[85]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
It takes a big vision to become a fine man. The world needs
men of big vision, men that are virile and have fine endo-
crines. Men that have creative force and can visualize and
build for the future as well as for the present. Men of
master minds.
We can think of no finer reward for the effort of writing
this book than the knowledge that some one was helped to a
little finer thinking about his evolvement and a greater efi
fort at self'expression, by reading what has been written here.
To evolve together harmoniously is joy enough for all.
V V V
[86]
CHAPTER IX
Helpful Items
OYS and girls entering puberty need a plentiful sup'
ply of calcium and phosphorus to develop their en'
docrines, especially the sex, thyroid and pineal
glands.
The “Fair, fat and forty” women entering the
menopause period very often and usually need thy'
roid extract.
A science report just came that cows who have been fed
extract of pituitary increased the milk flow from ten to three
hundred and fifty per cent. Why not also the human.
W e have long known that X'rays have an especial affinity
for the destruction of abnormal or fast'growing cells and
germs, and are particularly destructive to germs in their
mitosis stage. Now science further finds that X'rays kill
living cells by suffocation. The action of the X'rays on the
tissues destroys the oxygen'getting power of the cells and so
they die.
The X'ray is becoming a great aid in stimulating or in'
hibiting the endocrines and especially the lymphatic ducts
and glands, in certain types of persons.
Ulcers of the stomach will yield more quickly to the
change in divine vibrations than to any other method of
treatment. The author has proven this many times in his
daily practice.
All living humans must have air in their stomachs and
intestines. Too much quack advertising has made the race
flatus conscious. It takes from 48 to 50 hours for the food
to pass from the mouth to the rectum. Constant physic does
[87]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
not give the food time to digest and absorb. Give the bowels
a chance to do their work. In most cases the endocrines with
their auxiliary ducts and glands will do their work if they
are left alone and have simple foods to act upon.
If a man becomes irritable towards middle age, despondent
and suicidal, and can only see the dark side of life he should
be very carefully examined for prostate trouble. Many a
man has committed suicide just because he had an inflamed
or enlarged prostate.
If a woman is emotional and cries easily and is despondent
and even suicidal, she has an inflamed or diseased cervix of
the womb and especially of the inner neck of the womb. This
condition may have been brought on by bad care at child
birth, or she may have colon bacilli infection. Or she may be
the victim of her husband’s dose of gonhorrhea that he had
when a boy or before he was married. Most slaughtering of
the ovaries and tubes comes from gonorrheal infection. This
destruction of the female sex organs must be stopped and
will be when men and women are properly examined before
marriage and the public knows the full truth of the sources
of gonorrhea and syphilis.
Both the long and short wave diathermies when properly
used are great factors in curing infections in the female and
male sex organs.
Normally healthy sex activities build up a man and a
woman and are their idealization, their imaging and creative
power.
The man or woman with normal endocrines will be able
to resist most diseases.
Sinus and antrum troubles are being absolutely cured by
the long and short wave diathermy. Our best results have
come from the use of the old autocondensation current.
W e are built through the forces of Light, Heat, Moisture
and Movement. Should we not then study these forces in
[88]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
relation to our well being? All these forces have direct bear'
ing on the endocrines. The endocrines make us what we are.
The understanding of helio and electro therapy has been a
great help and still needs deeper study.
The highest life-growing foods are those that grow on trees
or bushes.
Second best, those that grow above the ground as leafy
vegetables, celery, lettuce, spinach, etc.
Third best, the underground or roots as potatoes, carrots,
turnips, etc.
The best food can be made useless by bad cooking or bad
preparing.
Milk and cheese contain large quantities of calcium and
phosphates. Liver contains copper and iron. Eggs contain
sulphur. Cod liver oil and shell-fish contain iodine. Vege-
tables contain cellulose as it is their cell membrane. These
are very necessary for cell-building, even as necessary as the
vitamins of food.
Vitamin A is an anti-infectious substance. The condition
is generally low where it is needed. It seems to have an
especial affinity for eye, lung, sinus and skin diseases. Vitamin
A is found in cod liver oil, yellow foods, milk, butter, yellow
of eggs.
Vitamin B is anti-neurotic and is required in gastric in­
testinal diseases, in neuralgia, neuritis and constipation. Vita­
min B is found in Brewer's yeast, germs of wheat, vegetables
cooked without salt. Salt may be added after cooking.
Vitamin C is anti-scorbutic (scurvy tendency). It is need­
ed in proper bone and teeth maintenance. Vitamin C is
found in alkaline vegetables, lemons, and oranges, grapefruit
and pineapples.
Vitamin D is anti-rachitic. It regulates the mineral meta­
bolism, the bone-forming elements, calcium and phosphates.
This is very necessary to the pregnant mother that she may
[89]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
have a perfect supply of calcium and phosphates. The lack
of Vitamin D produces rickets. Vitamin D is found in cod"
liver oil, milk, butter, yellow of eggs and by body chemistry
of the sun or ultra violet rays. Persons subject to arthritis
should beware of large doses of Vitamin D.
Vitamin E is necessary in the reproductive functions of
the body. Vitamin E is found in the germs of wheat.
All diseases have vitamin and endocrine deficiency.
Sanitation goes hand in hand with civilization.
One of the greatest aids in sanitation is the lowly “patent
toilet.” In recent unearthings in Mesopotamia they found
that the people of that age dumped their offal and refuse and
slops just outside of the tent or house and as the space be"
came filled they shoved it under their abode and started all
over again. Think of the stenches and the diseases from such
methods. Yet to this day are peoples still living like the
ancient Mesopotamians. Sanitation is advancing quite rapid­
ly and the patent toilet is no longer just for a city dweller.
Farming communities are installing cess pools and the patent
toilet.
If you are not feeling in normal health consult a doctor—
one that will teach you about your condition. The word
“doctor” means "teacher.” Every case is a law unto itself.
Every case must be studied separately.
Health is not something that can be handed to you in a
pill or a surgical operation or in a light or electrical treat­
ment. All these may help if intelligently used. The cause
and effects of disease must be carefully studied. Read and
re-read this book and you will find great help in understand­
ing your life forces.
[90]
G L A N D S — O U R I N V I S I B L E G U A R D I A N S
You and all humanity can be uplifted by studying the ere'
ative and spiritual forces within yourself.
Humanity never has been and never will be uplifted by
stepping over the dead and mutilated bodies of children,
women and the flower of our manhood. Humanity must
study and know the higher forces, within, that are related
to the God or Creative forces from without.
V V V
[91 ]
f
I
t!
l
H
.
CHART C
Front View of Location of Body Organs
[94]
INDEX
V
Abnormal (excessive): 17,64
Adrenal: 32, 33, 35, 61
Pituitary: 29, 50, 63
Thymus: 39, 58, 65
Thyroid: 31, 32, 49
Addison's disease: 32
Adrenals: 22, 23, 27, 31-35, 37, 45,
46, 51, 52, 67
Alcoholism: 60, 78
Anger: 33, 67
Antagonism, glandular: 46
Apoplexy: 32
Americanitis: 33
Arsenic: 30, 50
Attraction (magnetism): 18
Auto-intoxication: 79
Auto-suggestion: 74
Bladder: 28, 38
Blood circulation: 24, 31, 34, 39
Blood content: 28, 31
Blood pressure: 29, 33
Bone growth. 28, 29, 37, 50, 89
Books on glands: 77
Brain: 24, 27, 34, 45, 47
Breasts: 28, 35, 38
Breathing: 69
Bright's disease: 33
Cancer: 33, 41
Capital and labor: 81, 82
Carbon monoxide: 77
Castration: 36, 37, 39, 53, 59, 65
Cause and effect: 12, 56, 64. 71
Cells: 23, 32, 44, 87
Charts: 8, 93, 94
Childbirth: 29, 38
Chromosomes: 53
Consciousness: 23, 24, 27, 34, 43,
72, 83
Constipation: 87, 88
Cortex: 32, 33
Cosmic Consciousness: 21, 43
Cosmic vibrations: 16, 24
Courage: 67
Creative Force (God): 24, 36, 43,
55, 56, 72, 83, 91
Cretin: 30
Crime and criminals: 17, 39, 60,
61, 63
Customs: 48
Cults: 73
Darwin: 63
Death: 28, 32, 34
Degenerates: 39, 60, 63
Detoxication: 40
Diabetes: 33
Duality of man: 14
Ductless Glands: 22, 34
Dwarfism: 29
Ego: 21
Elixirs: 22, 57
Emotions: 17, 18, 24, 33, 34, 46, 48,
50, 51, 67, 71, 72, 77, 79, 80, 81, 83
Endocrines: 22, 24, 44, 48, 64, 72,
73, 83
Enzymes: 32, 40
Epilepsy: 29, 40, 60, 61
Epincphrin: 32, 33, 34
Eunuchs: 36, 37, 53. 54, 56, 71
Evolution: 21, 22, 30, 31, 33, 36, 44,
47, 55, 64, 72, 80, 84, 86
Exoptbalmia: 31, 35
Experiments:
Barium meal (cat): SO
Implanting ovary and testicle
(eunuchs): 37
Rejuvenating elixir: 22, 23
Thymus extract (tadpoles) : 39
Thyroid extract (tadpoles and
newts): 30
Extracts, glandular: 87
f 95 ]
INDEX— C o n tin u ed
Fallopian Tubes: 38
Fear: 24, 33, 67, 82
Fermentation: 80
Fight and Flight: 33, 57, 73, 80, 81
Foetus: 38
Foods; 36, 69, 70, 73, 79, 80, 84, 89
Generative Organs: 35, 36
Giantism: 29
Gland Control: 23
Glands of combat: 67
Gonads: 22, 23, 30, 32, 35-39, 48,
53-58, 78
Gonorrhea: 38, 88
Growth: 30
Harmonium: 46, 81
Hate: 24 (see emotions)
Headaches: 63
Healing Forces: 74
Heart: 32, 34
Hermaphroditism: 32
Hormones: 22
Homosexuals: 39, 53, 54, 59, 60
Hunger: 67
Illumined Souls: 21, 86
Incompatibility: 84
Infantiloids: 54
Inhibitions: 73, 74, 77, 82
Insanity: 18
Intestines: 28, 40, 87
Iodine: 30-32, 50, 52, 67, 89
Iron: 30, 52, 67, 69, 77, 89
Karma: 56, 57
Kinetic drive: 47
Liars (pathological): 29, 59
Lime Salts: 27, 37, 40, 52
Lincoln: 50, 63, 85
Liver: 22, 24, 31, 40, 46
Love: 24, 27, 74, 84
Lymph Glands: 22, 24, 40, 87
Lust: 56, 57, 82
Masculine women: 35, 37, 51, 52. 59
Masturbation: 71
Maternal Instinct: 67
Memory: 24, 67
Melancholia: 48, 49
Menstruation: 30, 38, 53, 63, 87
Mental Healing: 73, 74, 87
Mind: 46, 47, 64, 66, 67
Mohammed: 61
Moods: 65
Moles: 52
Morals: 48
Mystical Science: 45, 75
Napoleon: 60
Narcotics: 48, 79
Neurasthenia, 38, 63
Nietsche: 63
Normal Development: 70, 71, 83
Obesity: 29, 50, 51
Ovaries: 35, 37, 38, 39, 46, 51,
53, 88
Ovum: 38
Oxygen: 77
Pain: 33
Pancreas: 22, 27, 40, 46
Parathyroid: 40
Penis: 35
Phosphorus: 30, 50, 52, 67, 87
Pigment: 27, 32, 51
Pineal Gland: 15, 16, 22, 23, 27,
51, 56
Pituitary Gland: 15, 16, 22, 23, 27-
30, 31, 37, 38, 45, 46, 50-52, 59,
60, 63, 67
Pregnancy: 30, 37, 53, 89
Prostate: 35, 38, 88
[96]
INDEX— C o n tin u ed
Psychic reaction and activity: 16,
Puberty: 39, 58, 87
Purity: 69, 70
Putrefaction: 48
Quacks: 57
Reincarnation: 66, 70
Rejuvenation: 23
Religion: 47, 72, 82, 83
Salivary Glands: 22, 32, 41
Salt: 27, 28, 31
Sanitation: 90
Sella-turcica: 28, 29, 50, 65
Semen: 36, 38
Sex: 24, 29, 30, 35-38, 48, 51, 53-
58, 59, 65, 70, 71, 84, 88
Shock: 34, 48, 49, 80
Short wave: 88
Sinus: 88
Skin: 27, 31, 34, 51
Sleep: 29
Smoking: 77, 78
Solar Plexus: 15, 16, 48
Soul: 27, 30, 47, 66, 85
Spermatazoon: 36, 38
Spleen: 16, 22, 40
Subconscious Mind: 25, 28, 46, 48
Subnormal (deficient): 17
Adrenal: 34, 35, 52
Gonads: 53, 54
Pituitary: 29, 50
Thyroid: 30, 31, 49, 87
30 Suggestion: 74
Suicides: 61
Suppression: 54, 55, 56, 70, 71, 85
Syphilis: 88
Teeth: 31, 37
Testicles: 22, 35, 36, 37, 39, 51, 53
Thinking: 48, 84, 8 5
Third Eye: 27
Thymus: 23, 27, 37, 39, 45, 46,
53, 58-61
Thyroid: 16, 22, 23, 29-31, 32, 37,
45, 46, 48, 49, 52, 60, 67, 69, 87
Transmitters, glands as: 15, 27
Tuberculosis: 33, 41, 59
Ulcers: 87
Urges, primitive: 11, 24, 36, 84
Uterus: 28, 35, 38. 88
Vegetative System: 24, 46, 48, 56
Vibrations: 24
Vitamins: 22, 89, 90
Vowel Sounds: 69
Wars: 24, 35, 51, 73, 81, 82
Wilde, Oscar: 60, 61
Wisdom: 47, 72, 79
Youtb, maintaining: 69
Youth, training: 70, 71
X-Rays: 27, 28, 39, 65, 69, 87
V V V
[97]
Explanatory
THE ROSICRUCIAN ORDER
V
Anticipating questions which may be asked by the readers
of this book, the publishers wish to announce that there is
but one universal Rosicrucian Order existing in the world
today, united in its various jurisdictions, and having one
Supreme Council in accordance with the original plan of the
ancient Rosicrucian manifestoes.
This international organization retains the ancient tradi­
tions, teachings, principles, and practical helpfulness of the
Brotherhood as founded centuries ago. It is known as the
Ancient Mystical Order Rosae Crucis, which name is ab­
breviated for popular use into AMORC. The North and
South American jurisdiction of this Order maintains Nation­
al Headquarters at San Jose, California, with branches dis­
tributed throughout the United States, Canada, and Mexico.
Those interested in knowing more of the history and present
day offerings of the Rosicrucians may have a free copy of the
book entitled, “The Secret Heritage,” by sending a definite
request to S c r ib e G. K. A., AMORC Temple, Rosicrucian
Park, San Jose, California.
[99]
V V V
The Rosicrucian Library
Consists of a number of unique books which are described
in the following pages, and which may be
purchased from the
ROSICRUCIAN SUPPLY BUREAU
S a n J o se , C a l i f o r n i a
V V V
[ 100]
Volume I
ROSICRUCIAN QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
W ITH COMPLETE HISTORY
OF THE ORDER
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
This volume contains the first complete, authentic history of the Rosicrucian
Order from ancient times to the present day. The history is divided into two
sections, dealing with the traditional facts and the established historical facts,
and is replete with interesting stories of romance, mystery, and fascinating
incidents.
This book is a valuable one since it is a constant reference and guide book.
Questions that arise in your mind regarding many mystical and occult subjects
are answered in this volume.
For many centuries the strange, mysterious records of the Rosicrucians were
closed against any eyes but those of the high initiates. Even editors of great
encyclopedias were unable to secure the weird, fascinating facts of the Rosi-
crucian activities in all parts of the world. Now the whole story is outlined
and it reads like a story from the land of the “Arabian Nights.”
The book also outlines answers to hundreds of questions dealing with the
history, work, teachings, benefits, and purposes of the Rosicrucian fraternity.
It is printed on fine paper, bound in silk cloth, and stamped in gold. Price,
postage prepaid, $2.00.
Volume II
ROSICRUCIAN PRINCIPLES FOR THE
HOME AND BUSINESS
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
This volume contains such principles of practical Rosicrucian teachings as
are applicable to the solution of the everyday problems of life in business and
in the affairs of the home. It deals exhaustively with the prevention of ill
health, the curing of many of the common ailments, and the attainment of
peace and happiness as well as the building up of the affairs of life that deal
with financial conditions. The book is filled with hundreds of practical points
dealing especially with the problems of the average business man or person in
t 101]
business employ. It points out the wrong and right way for the use of meta­
physical and mystical principles in attracting business, increasing one's income,
promoting business propositions, starting and bringing into realization new
plans and ideas, and the attainment of the higher ambitions in life.
"Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and Business” is not theoretical but
strictly practical, and is in its fourth edition, having had a wide circulation
and universal endorsement not only among members of the organization, who
have voluntarily stated that they have greatly improved their lives through the
application of its suggestions, but among thousands of persons outside of the
organization. It has also been endorsed by business organizations and business
authorities.
The book is of standard size, well printed, bound in silk cloth, and stamped
in gold. Price, postage prepaid, $2.25.
Volume III
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
This is the book that thousands have been waiting for— the real Jesus re­
vealed at last! It was in preparation for a number of years and required a
visit to Palestine and Egypt to secure a verification of the strange facts con­
tained in the ancient Rosicrucian and Essene Records.
It is a full account of the birth, youth, early manhood, and later periods of
Jesus' life, containing the story of His activities in the times not mentioned in
the Gospel accounts. The facts relating to the immaculate conception, the
birth, crucifixion, resurrection, and ascension will astound and inspire you.
The book contains many mystic symbols, fully explained, original photographs,
and a new portrait of Jesus.
There are over three hundred pages with seventeen large chapters, beauti­
fully printed, bound in purple silk and stamped in gold.
Here is a book that will inspire, instruct, and guide every student of mysti­
cism and religion. It is one of the most talked-about books ever written on the
subject. Read it and be prepared for the discussions of it that you will hear
among men and women of learning.
Sent by mail, postpaid, for $2.50.
[ 102]
Volume IV
THE SECRET DOCTRINES OF JESUS
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
Docs the Bible actually contain the unadulterated words of Jesus the Christ?
Do you know that from 325 A. D. until 1870 A. D., twenty ecclesiastical or
church council meetings were held, in which man along decided upon the con­
text of the Bible? Self-appointed judges in the four Lateran Councils expur­
gated and changed the sacred writings to please themselves. The Great Master’s
personal doctrines, of the utmost, vital importance to every man and woman,
were buried in unexplained passages and parables. "The Secret Doctrines of
Jesus,” by Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, eminent author of “The Mystical Life of
Jesus,” for the first time reveals these hidden truths. Startling, fascinating, this
new book should be in every thinker’s hands. It is beautifully bound, illus­
trated, of large site, and the price, including postage, is only $2.50 per copy.
V o l u m e V
“UNTO THEE I G RAN T . .
By Sri. Ramatherio
This is one of the rarest Oriental mystery books known. It is translated by
special permission of the Grand Lama and Disciples of the Sacred College in
the Grand Temple in Tibet.
Here is a book that was written two thousand years ago, and was hidden in
manuscript form from the eyes of the world and given only to the initiates of
the temples in Tibet to study privately.
Out of the mystery of the past comes this antique book containing the rarest
writings and teachings known to man with the exception of the Bible. Hun­
dreds of books have been written about the teachings and practices of the
Masters of the Far East and the Adepts of Tibet, but none of them has ever
contained the secret teachings found in this book. This book is divided into
many parts, each part containing a large number of sections or divisions and
chapters.
The book deals with man’s passions, loves, desires, weaknesses, sins,
strengths, fortitudes, ambitions, and hopes. All are treated in detail with il­
luminating simplicity. The book is beautifully printed and bound in stiff cover,
and contains also the strange mystic story of the expedition into Tibet to se­
cure this marvelous manuscript.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only $1.25.
t 103 ]
Volume VI
A THOUSAND YEARS OF YESTERDAYS
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
Here is a book that will tell you about the real facts of reincarnation. It is
a story of the Soul, and explains in detail how the Soul enters the body and
how it leaves, where it goes, and when it comes back to earth again, and why.
The story is not just a piece of fiction, but a revelation of the mystic laws
and principles known to the Masters of the Far East and the Orient for many
centuries, and never put into book form as a story before this book was print­
ed. That is why the book has been translated into so many foreign languages
and endorsed by the mystics and adepts of India, Persia, Egypt, and Tibet.
Fascinating — Alluring — Instructive
Each who has read the book says that he was unable to leave it without
finishing it at one sitting. The story reveals the mystic principles taught by
the Rosicrucians in regard to reincarnation as well as the spiritual laws of the
soul and the incarnations of the soul.
It is well printed, bound with a stiff cover, and worthy of a place in any­
one's library.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only $1.00.
Volume VII
SELF MASTERY AND FATE W ITH THE
CYCLES OF LIFE
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
This book is entirely different from any ever issued in America dealing with
the secret periods in the life of each man and woman wherein the Cosmic
forces affect our daily affairs.
The book reveals how we may take advantage of certain periods to bring
success, happiness, health and prosperity into our lives, and it likewise points
out those periods which are not favorable for many of the things we try to
accomplish. It does not deal with astrology or any system of fortune telling,
but presents a system long used by the Master Mystics in Oriental lands and
which is strictly scientific and demonstrable. One reading of the book with its
charts and tables will enable the reader to see the course of his life at a glance.
[ 104 ]
It helps everyone to eliminate “chance" and “luck,” to cast aside “fate” and
replace these with Self Mastery.
Here is a book you will use weekly to guide your affairs throughout the
years. There is no magic in its system, but it opens a vista of the cycle of the
life of each being in a remarkable manner.
Well printed, bound in silk cloth, and stamped in gold to match other
volumes of the Rosicrucian Library. Price, postage paid, $2.25.
Volume VIII
ROSICRUCIAN M ANUAL
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
This practical book contains not only extracts from the Constitution of the
Order of Rosicrucians, but a complete outline and explanation of all of the
customs, habits, and terminology of the Rosicrucians, with diagrams and ex­
planations of the symbols used in the teachings, an outline of the subjects
taught, a dictionary of the terms, a complete presentation of the principles of
Cosmic Consciousness, and biographical sketches of important characters con­
nected with the work. There are also special articles on the Great White
Lodge and its existence, how to attain psychic illumination, the Rosicrucian
Code of Life with thirty laws and regulations, and a number of portraits of
prominent mystics including Master K. H., the Illustrious.
The technical matter contained in the text and in the hundred or more dia­
grams makes this book a real encyclopedia of Rosicrucian explanations, aside
from the complete dictionary it contains.
The “Rosicrucian Manual” is of large size, well printed, beautifully bound
in red silk cloth, and stamped in gold. The fifth edition has been enlarged
and improved in many ways. Price, postage prepaid, $2.35.
Volume IX
MYSTICS A T PRAYER
By Many Cihlar
Austrian Philosopher and Mystic
The first complete compilation of the famous prayers of the renowned mys­
tics and adepts of all ages.
The book, “Mystics at Prayer," explains in simple language the reason for
prayer, how to pray, and the Cosmic laws involved. You come to learn the
real efficacy of prayer and its full beauty dawns upon you. Whatever your
religious beliefs, this book makes your prayers the application not of words.
[ 105]
but of helpful, divine principles. You will learn the infinite power of prayer.
Prayer is man’s rightful heritage. It is the direct means of man's communion
with the infinite force of divinity.
"Mystics at Prayer" is well bound, embossed in gold, printed on art paper
in two colors, with deckled edge and tipped pages, sent anywhere, postpaid,
$ 1. 10.
Volume XI
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
Reincarnation! The world’s greatest disputed doctrine. The belief in re­
incarnation has had millions of intelligent, learned and tolerant followers
throughout the ages. Ringing through the minds and hearts of students, mys­
tics, and thinkers have always been the words: "Why Are We Here?" Re­
incarnation has been criticized by some as conflicting with sacred literature
and without verification. This book reveals, however, in an astounding man­
ner, the many facts to support reincarnation. Quotations from eminent author­
ities, from Biblical and Sacred works substantiate reincarnation. This volume
PROVES reincarnation. It places it high above mere speculation. This book
is without exaggeration the most complete, inspiring, enlightening book ever
written on this subject. It is not a fiction story, but a step by step revelation
of profound mystical laws. Look at some of these fascinating, intriguing
subjects:
The Cosmic Conception; The Personality of the Soul; Does Personality
Survive Transition?; Heredity and Inheritance; Karma and Personal Evolu­
tion; Religion and Biblical View-Points; Christian References; Between In­
carnations; Souls of Animals and the "Unborn "
; Recollections of the Past.
The book contains over three hundred pages, beautifully printed, neatly
bound, stamped in gold; it is a valuable asset to your library, economically
priced. Priced, per copy, postage prepaid, only $2.35.
Volume XII
LEMURIA—THE LOST CONTINENT
OF THE PACIFIC
By W ishar S. Cerve
Beneath the rolling, restless seas lie the mysteries of forgotten civilizations.
Swept by the tides, half buried in the sands, worn away by terrific pressure,
are the remnants of a culture little known to our age of today. Where the
[ 106]
mighty Pacific now rolls in a majestic sweep of thousands of miles, there was
once a vast continent. This land was known as Lcmuria, and its people as
Lemurians.
We pride ourselves upon the inventions, conveniences, and developments of
today. We call them modern, but these ancient and long-forgotten people ex­
celled us. Things we speak of as future possibilities, they knew as everyday
realities. Science has gradually pieced together the evidences of this lost race,
and in this book you will find the most astounding, enthralling chapters you
have ever read. How these people came to be swept from the face of the
earth, except for survivors who have living descendants today, is explained.
Illustrations and explanations of their mystic symbols, maps of the continent
and many ancient truths and laws are contained in this unusual book.
If you are a lover of mystery, of the unknown, the weird—read this book—
remember, however, this book is not fiction, but based on facts, the result of
extensive research. Does civilization reach a certain height, and then retro­
grade? Are the culture and progress of mankind in cycles, reaching certain
peaks, and then returning to start over again? These questions and many more
are answered in this intriguing volume. Read of the living descendants of
these people, whose expansive nation now lies at the bottom of the Pacific.
In the minds of these descendants is the knowledge of the principles which
in by-gone centuries made their forbears builders of an astounding civilization.
The book, “Lemuria, the Lost Continent of the Pacific," is beautifully
bound, well printed, and contains many, many illustrations. It is priced eco­
nomically at $2.30, postpaid.
Volume XIII
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
THE WAY OF COSMIC PREPARATION
By Raymund Andrea, F. R. C.
A guide to inner unfoldment! The newest and simplest explanation for at­
taining the state of Cosmic Consciousness. To those who have felt the throb
of vital power within, and whose inner vision has at times glimpsed infinite
peace and happiness, this book is offered. It converts the intangible whispers
of self into forceful actions that bring real joys and accomplishments in life.
It is a masterful work on psychic unfoldment.
It is well bound in cloth, with deckled and tinted edged paper. Secure this
treasure for yourself. Economically priced, postage paid, at $2.00.
[ 107]
Volume XIV
THE SYMBOLIC PROPHECY
OF THE GREAT PYRAMID
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
The world’s greatest mystery and first wonder is the Great Pyramid. It
stands as a monument to the learning and achievement of the ancients. For
centuries its secrets were closeted in stone— now they stand revealed.
Never before in a book priced within the reach of every reader have the
history, vast wisdom, and prophecies of the Great Pyramid been given. You
will be amazed at the Pyramid's scientific construction and at the tremendous
knowledge of its mysterious builders.
Who built the Great Pyramid? Why were its builders inspired to reveal to
posterity the events of the future? What is the path that the Great Pyramid
indicates lies before mankind? Within the pages of this enlightening book
there are the answers to many enthralling questions. It prophesied the World
War and the great economic upheaval. Learn what it presages for the future.
You must not deprive yourself of this book.
The book contains over two hundred pages, is excellently printed, is well
bound with a hard cover, and contains all necessary charts and illustrations.
It is priced at only $2.35 with postage paid.
Volume XV
THE BOOK OF JASHER
THE SACRED BOOK WITHHELD
By what right has man been denied the words of the prophets? Who dared
expunge from the Holy Bible one of its inspired messages? For centuries man
has labored under the illusion that there have been preserved for him the col­
lected books of the great teachers and disciples—yet one has been withheld—
"The Book of Jasher."
Within the hallowed pages of the great Bible itself are references to this
lost book which have puzzled the devout and students for centuries. As if by
Divine decree, the Bible appears to cry out to mankind that its sanctity had
been violated, its truth veiled, for we find these two passages exclaiming—
[ 108 ]
“Is not this written in the Book of Jasher”—Joshua X. 13; “Behold, it is writ­
ten in the Book of Jasher’’-
—II Samuel I. 18.
Alcuin discovered this great lost book of the Bible written by Jasher. He
translated it into English in 800 A. D. Later it was suppressed and then re­
discovered in 1829, and once again suppressed.
But now we bring to you an Actual Photographic Reproduction of this
magnificent work, page for page, line for line, unexpurgated. This enlighten­
ing work, bound in its original style, is priced at only $2.00 per copy, post­
age paid.
Volume XVI
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE DISCIPLE
By Raymund Andrea, F. R. C.
“The Technique of the Disciple” is a book containing a modern description
of the ancient esoteric path of spiritual illumination, trod by the masters and
avatars of yore. It has long been said that Christ left, as a great heritage to
members of His secret council, a private method for guidance in life, which
method has been preserved until today in the secret, occult, mystery schools.
Raymund Andrea, the author, reveals the method for attaining a greater
life taught in these mystery schools, which perhaps parallels the secret instruc­
tions of Christ to members of His council. The book is enlightening, inspiring,
and splendidly written. It is handsomely bound with a stiff board cover and
the material of the cover is woven of silk thread, and stamped in gold. Post­
age paid on shipment to you. Priced at $2.15 per copy.
V olume XVII
MENTAL POISONING
THOUGHTS THAT ENSLAVE MINDS
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
Tortured souls. Human beings, whose self-confidence and peace of mind
have been torn to shreds by invisible darts— the evil thoughts of others. Can
envy, hate, and jealousy be projected through space from the mind of another?
Do poisoned thoughts like mysterious rays reach through the ethereal realm to
claim innocent victims? Will wishes and commands born in hate gather
momentum and like an avalanche descend upon a helpless man or woman in
a series of calamities? Must humanity remain at the mercy of evil influences
( 109]
created in the minds of the vicious? Millions each year are mentally poisoned
— are you safe from this scourge? “Mental Poisoning” is the title of a new
book just written by Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, which fearlessly discloses this
psychological problem. It is sensational in its revelations. Read it and be
prepared.
This neatly bound, well printed book will be sent to you for the nominal
price of only $1.2?. It has been economically produced so it can be in the
hands of thousands because of the benefit it will afford readers.
Order yours today. Price includes postage.
V V V
H O W TO ORDER BOOKS
If your regular book dealer does not have these books in
stock, and you do not care to wait until he secures them for
you, you may save time by sending your order direct, with
remittance or C. O. D., postage prepaid by us.
ROSICRUCIAN SUPPLY BUREAU
R o s ic r u c ia n P a r k S a n Jo se , C a l if o r n ia
[ 110]
