{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__gibbes___the_european_crisis_cummins.pdf","mytitle":"The European Crisis Cummins","mylang":"de"}
NO WAR
THE EUROPEAN
CRISES
(Prophetic Scripts)
writte n by
GERALDINE CUMMINS
compiled by
E. B. GIBBES
PAST
PRESENT
FUTURE
Price 6d.
Coples can be obtained from the Plychic Societies, Messrs. Watkins,
Cecil Court, W.C.2. and from 25, jubilee Place, Chelsea. S.W . 3
t
THE EUROPEAN
CRISES
Accurate Prophecies
given through
GERALDINE CUMMINS
compiled by
E. B. GIBBES
~oobmount ~ress l.tb.
~
3, LANSDOWNE ROAD,
HOLLAND PARK LONDON, W. l J
ENGLAND.
First Impression: August 1939·
Second Impression: August 1939-
Introductory Note.
Geraldine Cummins is a well-known trance-writer, that is, her
pen occasionally writes matter on which she has formed no 9pinion
or is directly contrary to her stated opinion and therefore to her
conscious mind. She has written several books which record infor-
mation beyond her normal knowledge but which contain facts veri-
fied by University scholars. These are: The Scripts of Cleophas,
Faul in Athens, The Great Days of Ephesus, The Childhood of
Jesus, When Nero was Dictator. They are primarily concerned
with early Christian history. In addition to these, two books called
The Road to Immortality and Beyond Huma.n Personality have
been published, which deal with conditions in the After-Life. They
purport to be dictated by the late F. W. H. Myers (one Qf the
founders of the Society for Psychical Research) who used Miss
Cummins as his amanuensis or "interpreter."
Miss Cummins sits at a table, covers her eyes with her left
hand, leaving her right hand resting on a block of foolscap paper.
After a few moments she falls into a light trance or dream state and
her hand begins to write. In order to remove the paper when filled
with writing, I sit beside her, asking questions very softly when
required or replying to those written down on paper by her. In
this manner " communication " is maintained between th~ living
and the so-called dead. The automatist (Miss Cummins) is the
placid and silent instrument 9r intermediary necessary to obtain
this contact. On the lines of wireless waves, she is " tuned in " to
certain vibrations, which so far no mechanical instrument has
registered. In the manner described she will write for periods of
from one to two hours-sometimes without a break. Part of this
book is reproduced by courtesy of PREDICTION, while a considerable
portion appeared recently in LIGHT. By request it is now put into
book form, together with some additional matter. It is hoped that
the predictions with their numerous verifications, as recorded here-
with, will reach a larger public than hitherto and so give reassurance
as regards the possibility of war in Europe. This is the sole reason
for their reproduction in its present form. The compilation of this
little book has necessitated considerable labour. Some of the veri-
fications may prove to be wrongly interpreted, therefore I ask the
indulgence of readers.
E. B. GmBES.
The European Crises Foreseen
and Recorded
7
In view of the state of '' chronic crisis ' ' in which Europe seems
to be plunged, it may be of interest to record the following series of
automatic scripts connected with the international situation which
have been written by Miss Geraldine Cummins from time to time
since March, 1938. They lead up to the present moment.
~ a rule, Miss Cummins is engaged 9n psychic writings of a
very different character, but occasionally F. W. H. Myers, a certiJ.in
well-known Politician, and others purport to write through her.
To go back to the autumn of 1937-Miss Cummins had returned
from her home in Ireland (where she had passed the summer) in a
very depleted state of health. She spent two months in bed and
another two months in being " built up " enough tp resist the
vagaries of the English climate. Gradually becoming strong enough
to do psychic work, we started with a few short sittings early in
March, 1938. At these, friends and relatives communicated.
Then came the annexation of Austria by Germany.
Sunday morning, March 13th, 1938, was one of agitation and
excitement. The Sunday papers printed huge headlines describing
the march into Austria. We had arranged to have a sitting in any
case, but in view of this development I decided to ask for the
Politician or for Myers-their comments on the situation might be
of interest. Miss Cummins too was anxious to obtain some
information concerning world' affa~ at this critical j.uncture.
It should be noted that the theory of "wish-fulfilment " failed
in this instance, as in others.
The name of Silenio, (Miss Cummins's Christian " C<;mtrol " or
" Guide ") was written. He appeared to be oblivious to the dis-
turbing thoughts which must have been vibrating on the ether, for
he quietly wrote: " I draw together to-day the old threads . . .
Behold the Messenger."* And without a pause the latter wrgte fgr
a time.
Later, I asked for Myers. When his name appeared on the
paper, I enquired if he were conscious of the present European
situation. He wrote:
"Yes, I have been talking with X (naming the Politician)
about it. He says that there will be no European war, but ~lood­
shed in Austria. Already those in the know are aware that 1t has
to become a province of Germany. Mussolini gave it some months
8
ago to Hitler. Now Mussolini will be faced with the secret dis-
approval of a section 9f his people. He will try, therefore, to make
terms with England and there is going to be a change of attitude
throughout the world. Victory has sometimes greater losses than
defeat. Hitler will be able tq keep this territory he has acquired,
but it will lead to a ring of alliances against him and the expr~ssed
determination of small and great nations that he shall not encroach
in Hungary or elsewhere. He will find that trade suffers, and it
seems that he will be kept in check by England, France, Russia,
Rumania and other Balkan States, who will all be prepared to fight
him if he goes further. I see no European war this year, but crises
at intervals and civil war or shootings in towns on the Continent.
This move of Germany's will bring sorely-needed internal unity to
France, and it seems that England's next trouble will be Palestine.
England is refusing to come to a solution there, and it will make
things more difficult for her. I see that Spain again starts up with
fresh severe fighting, but Mussolini seems to withdraw mQre or less,
eventually."
After some further comments, Myers ended with: " Do not
be afraid. There will not be war for England in Europe this year
(1938) I see no farther. There will be further panics, but do not
be alarmed for England."
At that time I did not check up the events predicted in the
script-writing as they occurred and were reported in the news-
papers, for Miss Cummins and I were engaged on another psychi-
cally written book. But the above seems to be a fairly accurate
forecast of some of the events which subsequently took place.
It will be noted that, speaking of the annexation of Austria
Myers says: " Mussolini gave it some months.ago t9 Hitler." It
is of interest here to quote, perhaps, a prev10us remark of the
Politician's in this connection. As long ago as November 6th
1936, he wrote (referring to Mussolini): " . : . m.eanwhile,. h~ aim~
at alliances with Germany and a settlement.m w~ch Austna 1s also
friendly, and he will not object to Austria b~1~g fe?erated with
Germany, so long as he can secure a st;,ong pos1ti.on wi~,the b~ck­
ing of Germany ... I see, however, he continued, no signs
of a great European war. The strength of the opp~sing alliances
is such that neither side will dare to take the offensive-for some
time to come anyhow."
This is the earliest reference that I can trace at the moment to
the fact that there would be no European war in which we were
involved. And it should be observed that the Politician apparently
foresaw in November, 1936, the annexation of Austria by Germany,
9
which occurred in March, 1938.
Referring to the remark made by F. W. H. Myers that "Mu:r
solini will be faced with the serious disapproval of a section of his
people," The Times correspondent, writing from R9me one year
later (March 17th, 1939), makes the following statement: "The
annexation of Bohemia has merely served to convince Italians of
Germany s callousness and untrustworthiness. In the north of
Italy, it has made them dislike the Axis policy more tha,n ever "
(italics mine).
The Anglo-Italian Agreement was signed in February, 1938.
Myers states that Hitler's action " will lead to a ring of alliances
against him . . . " and that he " will be kept in check by England,
France, Russia, Rumania and other Balkan States, etc."
This forecast would seem to point to events further ahead ~d
which may be the outcome 9f the crisis of March, 1939, when Hitler
seized Czecho-Slovakia. The Sunday Times (March 19th, 1939)
reported the following: " Ministers also discussed . . . a proposal
by Lord Halifax for consultations between Britain, France, U.S.A.,
and Russia, to consider a common policy in the event of further
German aggression. To this policy Rumania, Greece, Turkey,
Poland and Jugoslavia would be invited to subscribe." The inva-
sion of Albania by Italy on Good Friday, April 7th, 1939, brought
about renewed eff9rts in this direction. At the moment of writing,
the forecast, made in March, 1938, has in part been fulfilled.
Germany has certainly found her trade suffer since the writing
of the above script. There was no European war in 1938, and ther~
have been a series of crises and panics ever since this prediction was
made. The civil war went on in Spain; France became more united
and E~gland had serious trouble with Palestine. (On October 18th,
1938, it became necessary for British tro9ps to take charge of
Jerusalem. About the same time 10,000 Italian troops were :with-
drawn from Spain, though a large number remained).
* As in the case of William Blake, certain entities describing themselves
as " messengers," communicated the contents of first five books men-
tioned in introductory not e. E.B.G.
IO
Alignment of Poland and Balkan
States Predicted
European events were again referred to on May 1st, 1938. The
communicator claimed to be the Politician, and his presence was
quite unexpected. The same entity had written in December, 1936,
that " world war would be avoided although the Powers come
pretty near to it . . . I fancy that Germany will, later on, help
herself to some slices of country on her Eastern frontier. But it
does not nec~ssarily lead to European conflict."
The script of May 1st:. 1938, runs as f91lows (the writing
changed to a small hand-wnting and the name was given):
" I fear that this is an intrusion. I want to talk about Europe.
The game on the political chess-board seems more than usually com-
plicated. You may not know that Chamberlain has risked his
popularity and is, in fact, being seriously censured through the
country because of his efforts to maintain peace." ·
I replied that I had not heard it.
" No, not in Kensington or Chelsea would you hear it ; but it
is said quite freely that Chamberlain has sold the country to the
money-lenders and sold the freedom of the seas and the Mediter-
ranean to Italy." (This refers presumably to the Agreement of
February, 1938.)
" He has done nothing of the sort. It is quite true that he has
greatly benefited the City thro.ugJ-1 this loan ~o Italy and the trade
arrangement. But, actually, 1t 1s our coal mdustry that will feel
the benefit most. In return, he re~eiv_es the f!iendship of Italy and
Mussolini is now anxious to keep ~1~ d1stance.1~ r~gard to Germany.
Hence Hitler's arrangement to y1s1t Mussolini, m order to pacify
him. But, in effect, Charnberlam has followed the only road that
leads to peace. Though Italy can, through Abyssinia, th_reaten our
trade route to India in a future war, there need be no war 1f England
remains on good terms with Italy. What Chamberl~n has pre-
vented is the seizure of the Balearic Islands and a portion pf North
Spain by Italy, and these are vital regions which concern us."
" North Spain?" I queried.
" Yes," he wrote, " a kind of protectorate on th~ part of
Italy was the idea. But Chamberlain has made it clear that he will
not tolerate this. Germany has been allowed to conquer Austria,
but again this permission on the part of the Great Powers to such
free-booting will lead to serious consequences. There are at pres!')nt
II
going on secret political visits, made by highly-placed officials in
the Balkan States, and there will be an alignment of these States,
an alliance between them, which will check Germany's progress in
South-Eastern Europe. Poland, also, is stiffening against Germany,
and' Mern Selb und Gott '-the old German definition of the Teuton
Empire-will lose all round in the long run. I may be s9rely mis-
taken, but some years hence it is likely that Austria may break
away from German control.'
A short discussion concerning the Budget then took place, after
which I asked this communicator his opinion concerning Ireland
and the Treaty just concluded. He wrote:
. " Yes, Chamberlain has had a dip~omatic triumph in con-
nection with Ireland. Everything will go more than sm9othly now
between the two Islands. Chamberlain has apprehended the Irish
mentality. Lloyd George and those who came after him, including
Baldwin, always failed in that respect. In effect, Chamberlain has
acted like a statesman, and in the same manner, towards Ireland
and Italy. He has made, therefore, a considerable improvement in
our position. He has established a friendly Ireland on pur Atlantic
route, and he has established a friendly Italy on our eastern route.
Germany is trying, through the Hitler visit, to upset this amicable
relationship with Italy, but he will fail . ..
" Now, through recent diplomacy, Germany has become iso-
lated and in consequence there will be no war. Chamberlain has,
I think, saved Europe. But none of the intellectuals will thank him
for that in his life time . . .
" I see no big European war within the next year. Germany
and Italy, for all their window-dressing, are not strong enough to
take on England and France; and Germany, though apparently
clever, has been very stupid again-without allies, her credit down
-because of her assimilation of Austria."
After some criticisms of the Government's management of
Palestine and other remarks concerning the future 9f the Throne
of England, our unexpected visitor withdrew.
The same communicator was responsible for the accurate fore-
cast of the abdication of King Edward VIII, given about the
time that event took place, and published in Light 9n November
24th, Ig38.
As I have said, I did not then check off these predictions !!S I
noticed any corroborations in the newspapers. Being much occu-
pied in other matters, I put the scripts away and did not again refer
to them. About this time, however, it appeared that Mr. Chamber-
lain had, because of his appeasement policy, become unpopular in
12
certain parts of the country. The making of the agreement with
Italy was severely criticised in some quarters. Hitler also paid ;i.
triumphant visit to Rome.
Whether or no Mussolini was aiming at a protectorate in
Northern Spain, and whether alliances to check the march of
Germany in South-Eastern Europe were then being considered, I
do not know. Perhaps again these were glimpses into the more
distant future. But the Balearic Islands are still, I think, officially
in the hands of Spain and not of Italy-a very important fact. This
early reference to Poland is also of interest.
We have certainly now a friendly Ireland 9n our Atlantic
route, but at the m?ment of writing the_idea of a " friendly Italy "
seems somewhat rrustaken. However, ill support of this statement
I quote the following remarks taken from The Sunday Times (April
23rd, 1939): " . . . although the Axis is solid, the aims of the two
partners are not the same. It is worth recalling the friendly woraS
towards Britain spoken this week by the Vice-President of the Italian
Chamber, Signor Gray. ' With Great Britain,' he said, ' . . . an
understanding has been possible . . . and to-day cordial accord
can be foreseen between the two nations which, if maintained and
strengthened, may settle all misunderstandings between the two
countries.' " (Reports received in 1939 indicate that the Italian
people are friendly to Britain in spite of the policy of their Govern-
ment).
It will be notice~ that t;h~ Politician,_as early ~ May 1st, 1938,
claims that the Prune Minister, by his deterrrunation to make
friends with Italy, has " saved Europe."
It must not be forgotten that Signor Mussolini's assistance at
the Munich conference helped to secure peace. (See Prime Minis-
ter's speech, January 30th, 1939, quoted on page 24.) The assur-
ance is again given that there would be no war.
Now a curious statement occurs in the foregoing script. On
May 1st, 1938, the Politician refers to ~ loan to Italy as an accom-
plished fact. Yet, on March 4th, 1938, Sir John Simon had stated
that no loan to Italy was in contemplation. In. his speech, as
reported in The Times on March 27th, 1939, ~1gnor Mussolini
said : " Time and again the ' pluto-democratic lie-~hop ' had tri-
umphantly announced the imminent collap~e o~ FasCI~t Italy - she
had worn herself out in Africa, or, later still, ill Spam, and was in
urgent need of a loan ' which naturally could only be a British
one.'''
Writing to The Times on Ma~c~ ~9th, ;:93~, ~- H..s. Abraham-
son says that '' S!gnor ~ussolini is q01te J_ostified. m protesting
against the suggestions which have appeared m certam newspapers
13
representing Italy as in need of a British 19an. This ill-founded
stat~ment,'.' he writes, "was first launched a year ago . .. and
an ill-advised financial writer . . . got hold of the wrong end of
the stick." The writer of the letter further remarks that, so far as
he is aware, " there has never been any question of Italy asking
Great Britain for a loan. "
So what are we to conclude? In the face of these denials, one
must presume that the Politician was wrong in this instance.
Dou.btl~ss even the so-called dead are not infallible in their prog-
nostications ; moreover this communicator remarked on December
4th, 1936-referring t~ another matter- that he was ." not a for-
tune-teller, but that is as I see it from a diagnosis of the situation,
and I was successful in that respect in my life." In fact, it seems
that ~e arr:ives at his views by a process 9f deduction on certain
occasions, mterrnixed with his ability to foresee events.
From the point of view of a student of Psychical Research, of
course, it may be claimed that the automatist read the report of a
possible loan to Italy in the paper and that her subconscious mind
served it up on this occasion under the guise of the communicator.
Alternatively, she may have received the wrong (assuming that this
is so) information telepathically from some outside source, for the
matter must have been very much " on the air " at that time.
Again, the Politician may have noticed the idea of this loan floating
around in the mind of the Sensitive and made use of it, thinking
it an accomplished fact.
Jn reviewing this statement in the script it should be remem-
bered that these forecasts, as will be seen, have so far been remark-
able in their accuracy. If one or two misfire, this can in no W?-Y
invalidate the value of the entire series. It would have been very
easy, in the circumstances, to have deleted the Politician's remark ;
but, since it happened, I leave it, and readers can form their own
conclusions.
And I would like to take this opportunity to say that of all
the many forecasts given, those which have not been verified are
relatively few, and generally refer to minor details-remarks made
in the course of conversation as it were, when one merely expresses
one's opinion but does not make a definite statement.
Miss Cummins went to Ireland at the end of June, 1938. We
had been engaged on many matters, some of a particularly worry-
ing and anxious character intermixed with scripts from a '' Mes-
senger." So, save for a communication at the end of May from
a certain deceased Army officer assuring his wife that there would
be no war and that he and his group were working for peace, there
were no further references to the international situation until the
middle of the September (1938) crisis. This took the form of a
letter written early one morning by the same Army officer, who
occasionally communicated through Geraldine Cummins. He was
insistent that a message should be sent to his wife in England ;i.ssur-
ing her that we should not be involved in war. At that moment,
Miss Cummins had become convinced that war was inevitable.
Full details of this incident were published in Light (October 13th,
1938).
The Violation of the Munich
Pact Foretold
15
Now, to come to the time when Miss Cummins returned to
London after the crisis of September 1938. Our first sitting for
automatic writing took place on October 12th, 1938. It was natural
perhaps, that, after such an anxious time, there should be some
communications of a personal kind. Therefore, friends of mine
were the first to ask if they could speak to us. Among these was
an elderly man whom Astor (another of Miss C's. controls) , intro-
duced as " the Financier." He had occasionally communicated
before, giving information of an interesting character.
On March 17th, 1938, after the annexation of Austria, he had
written about family matters. Asked if he thought there would be
war, he replied: " Not for England. I see no war in the coming
months for us, but panics at intervals and the Stock Exchange in
the dumps! . . . "
In his life, his was a far-seeing and brilliant mind. Anxious
about those he loved on earth and knowing that I was in touch
with them, he was waiting to speak to us on October 12th, the first
opportunity in my presence since the previous J une. I referred to
the crisis just passed and asked him to describe some aspect of it
from his viewpoint.
" Yes, we were kept busy over here," he replied. "However,
as we had previously assured you there would be no war, I did
not attempt to write to you."
'' How was Peace fixed up with Hitler by Chamberlain at the
last moment ? " I enquired.
''All the most able minds that belonged to Britain and France,' '
he wrote, "were united in one white electric force. They sent out
a beam of thought to Chamberlain, and in a lesser sense to Daladier
and Mussolini-three beams. They then encircled Hitler with a
red sign, which was the only one that might keep out the con-
tinuous demands of his advisers that he should go to war. You
are probably not aware that Germany was, in essentials, the
stronger. Her air fleets would have smashed up many towns in
England and paralysed communications to a certain degree. First,
her army would have possessed Czechoslovakia, then she would
merely have defended herself in regard to France, and struck
at England swiftly with all her air forces. The Allies might
have brought things to a stale-mate in time, but at the cost
16
of a ruined England.
'' I want you to understand that, in order to obtain glimpses
of the earth's future we, here, have to place ourselves in a special
state. This state of acute mental and spiritual observation transports
us into Recorded Time-or what some may call ' God's Time.'
Then we obtain glimpses of things to come. But we may not remain
long in that higher zone-the atmosphere is too rarified, to put it
crudely. I knew there would be no war; but, all the same, I worked
with all the inadequate power I have to avert it. For I was respond-
ing to the law of my being. And in this Recorded Time, one per-
ceives usually two events.''
(Here a little picture of scales was drawn and the words "The
Scales " appeared beside it.)
" I saw the picture of war and its results in the left one (scale),
and I saw war averted and its results in the right. They were
evenly balanced. The Omnipotent Mind does not judge. It con-
ceives the two pictures as a painter perceives his unpainted picture.
It leaves to man to choose which he will have. The choice is made
according to the average of spirituality in the few rulers concerned;
according, also, to the average of emotion and intelligence. We, on
this side, could do much in such a crisis to tip the scales in the
right direction.
" The many thousands slaughtered in the last war, dying with
thoughts of revenge and ~gony, produced a fog of evil, gaseous
memory, which the lower mfluences over here strove to cast about
the principal figures in Europe. So, apart from our own special sec-
tion, there "'.as great conflict raging here-working for revenge, hate
and destruction, or for peace, common-sense and construction. You
are not by any means out of the wood. Hitler is already thinking
of his next move. There will be another war crisis next year (1939) .
It will be even more dangerous because conducted with greater
secrecy than the last one. It will come out of apparent calm. I
think that, for the moment, he is content to stir up trouble for
England through his agents in Palestine. He hopes to rouse the
whole Moslem world against England, and so embarrass her in
India and in the East generally. Hitler worships only one thing-
power and domination. He wants to go fr?m victory ~o victory.
But it will be some months before he has finished consolidating his
new territories in the Reich."
"You said it was the men behind him, not Hitler, who were
pushing him into war? " I said :
"I spoke of the crisis in the autumn (1938). Hitler saw
further than they did and argued that it was better peacefully to
17
acquire the valuable forts, mines and timber of Czecho-Slovakia.
These then, as an increased source of strength, would enable him
to fight and dominate more easily at a later time.' '
" The German nation don't want war it seems? "
" You have hit on the weak spot, the Achilles heel of Hitler,
in that remark. He and his advisers do not yet realise the growt:!1
of internal discontent in Germany. It is extremely secret, but it
is there and spreading among the workers. England's best hope
of peace lies in time. By delaying and delaying the apparently
inevitable war, she gives the revolting party in Germany a chance
to become strong-so strong that, eventually, they turn on the
present regime and attack it openly. I think, therefore, that a
great war can, and will be, averted. But you will go dangerously
near it, and only the strength of your armaments will prevent its
outbreak.
"Well, we continue to re-arm and prepare for war in spite
of our pact with Germany never to go to war with each other
again," I remarked.
'' That pact is not worth the paper it is written on. Hitler is
essentially an opportunist and whatever is favourable at the moment
he snatches at. He holds that the truth of yesterday is not the truth
of to-day. Do not worry about the future of Europe. He who
takes up the sword perishes by the sword. Germany is the advocate
diablo of violence to-day. Such violence will re-act on it to-morrow
internally. Peace of a kind continues for some time. But clouds
gather in the East in connection with Palestine."
It will be observed that the Financier says that we are
"probably not aware that Germany was, in essentials, the stronger.
Her air fleets would have smashed up towns," etc.
In the Prime Minister's speech delivered at Birmingham on
March 17th, 1939, and reported in The Times the next day, we may
note that he admits that " after Munich our defence programme was
actually accelerated and it was expanded so as to remedy certain
weaknesses which had become apparent during the crisis."
('' Certain weaknesses '' is good ! )
It was not clear which crisis was to come " out of apparent
calm." Calmness, to some extent, prevailed until a day or two
before the annexation of Czecho-Slovakia, and trade was more
stabilised. On the other hand, another crisis in May is mentioned
later as being dangerous for this reason, and the writing subse-
quently indicated that this was the crisis referred to.
Regarding the statement that Hitler is '' content to stir up
trouble throllgh his agents in Palestine," the following is of interest.
18
Writing from Jerusalem on November 28th, 1938, The Times
correspondent says " that German moneys are passing through
a certain Arab in Damascus, and thence filtering through
to Palestine is certain . . . propagandist literature is being
printed in Arabic in Germany and distributed in Palestine and
Egypt. It is known that Germans of all ranks and occupations in
Palestine and Egypt are playing their allotted parts in the service
of Nazism and that the centre of this organisation is in Cairo."
Certainly, Hitler has moved from one triumphant victory to
another since this script was written, and he does not yet appear to
have finished consolidating his new territories in the Reich!
Frankly, Miss Cummins and I rather doubted the Financier's state-
ment as to the growth of internal discontent in Germany.
However, on January 2nd, 1939, The Times printed a long
article entitled " Germany in 1938." Space permits only some
brief extracts from it. '' . . . The nerves of the German people
had been subjected to a strain such as they can seldom have known
save in time of war . . . the opposition of both Catholics and
Protestants to Nazi Church policy . . . the resentment felt by
' intellectuals ' ~t th~ su~ordination of art and science to politcal
cant . . . the dissatisfaction of the peasants with an agricultural
policy whereby . . Among employers of labour there is opposition
. . . among the working-class there has been resentment at the
destruction of trade unions, and at a system which, amid all the
symtoms of a boom, has prevented working-class standards of
living.from rising . . . gro~ing dissatisfaction at the periodically
recurnng shortages of certam foodstuffs and the deterioration in
the quality of many products, particularly clothing . . . the work-
men had been led to believe that conditions would be improved
as soon as the initial problem of giving full employment had been
solved. This hope has been sadly disappointed . . . conscript
labour. This measure was very unpopular . . . bitter resentment
caused by the compulsory dispatch of workmen to places far from
their homes and f:i;nilies . . . this cavalier treatment was extremely
unpopular ...
The " strength of our armaments " must certainly play a
considerable part in averting a general war. Though '' peace of a
kind " then continued, we seemed to be " dangerously near " war
at intervals.
Subsequent actions of the German Dictator have proved the
truth of this co=unicator's statements i_nade in October 1938,
concerning the worthlessness of the pact signed between him and
Mr. Chamberlain at Munich. In view of Hen Hitler's repeated
assurances that he had no further territorial claims in Europe, I
19
viewed the Financier's summing up of that individual as being
personal prejudice and dislike in some way. But I need only
quote Mr. Duff Cooper's remark in the House of Commons on
March 16th, 1939, after the annexation of Czecho-Slovakia, for
corroboration of the actual words of the script written in October,
1938. He said: " I consider that no agreement he (Hitler) signs
is worth the paper it is written on."
In corroboration of the Financier's statement that German
violence will react on Germany, attention is drawn to the Prime
Minister's words in his Birmingham speech (March 1Jth, 1939).
He is reported to have said: " This is a great and powerful nation-
far more powerful than we were even six months ago, and acts of
violence and injustice bring with them sooner or later their own
reward. Everyone of these incursions raises up fresh dangers for
Germany in the future, and I venture to prophesy that in the end
she will bitterly regret what her Government has done.''
On the following day (October 13th, 1938) the Politician again
wrote through Miss Cummins. Being a Politician, there is a certain
amount of justified criticism in his writing, part of which was sub-
sequently corroborated by the Pirne Minister in the speech to which
I have just alluded. Referring to the September crisis and the
Munich agreement, the Politician said:
'' I feel that Chamberlain, in view of the circumstances, had
no other choice. I, of course, commend him for his great courage,
his devotion and his sincerity. But it appears to me that ~vise
statesmen should have foreseen this crisis a year at least previous
to the occasion of its appearance. Baldwin and the then acting
French Premier should have foreseen the danger to Austria and
to Czecho-Slovakia. If they could not have saved Austria, they
should at least have urged the Czechs to make peace within their
borders, to unite Bohemia to them by giving the Sudeten Germans
all the privileges that would win them. Where Chamberlain was
caught-apart from military strength- was in the weakness of the
cause he was expected to fight for, expect~d by Labour, at leas~.
The Sudeten Germans asked for the Reich ; and, though theJr
de~a~d was artificially stimulated, ~t remained the request. of !he
ma1onty, and in refusing it the Allies would have been violating
League principles . . . "
In his speech (March, 1939), Mr. Chamberlain, (referring to
the Munich agreement) says: " I had to deal with no new problem.
This was something that had existed ever since the Treaty of
Versailles-a problem that ought to have been solved long ago, if
only the statesmen of the last twenty years had taken broader and
more enlightened views of their duty . . . "
To revert to the Script of October 13th, 1938. The Politician
20
wrote as follows:
'' . . . They will accuse Chamberlain shortly of being pro-
Fascist, of endeavouring to run England on Fascist lines. As I
see the future there will be a condition of unrest for some time to
come. Chamberlain fails, at present, to get any definite assurances
from the Dictator Hitler. He is unable to nail him down. Senti-
mental diatribes about the desire of Germany for peace may well
be uttered by him, but they mean nothing. Hitler and Mussolini
are now waiting for the last act of the Spanish tragedy. When
that comes, when there is an attempt at a settlement in Spain, it
seems that another war crisis occurs. The Dictators want their
money's worth, and England and France will again be threatened
with war. It seems that only Chamberlain's extreme caution saves
the situation in this instance. The public will know much less
about it on this occasion. That is why the position will be more
dangerous than the position last September. Manceuvres and neg-
otiations are mostly carried on behind the scenes. But it seems to
me that a European war is put off at any rate again . . . Where
Hitler and Mussolini are at a disadvantage is in economic matters.
Those two countries are nearer bankruptcy than we are. It is
finance that saves us from war in the next crisis. Czecho-Slovakia
becomes an unacknowledged German colony. It is almost wholly
dependent on the Sudeten German area, and in future the Czechs
will have to obey Hitler for the sake of t~eir tra~e ~d for the sake
of their very existence. Take a longer view. Time is on, 9ur side.
Germany has now within its borders very different types of people.
Numbers of them do not enjoy the Prussian drill-sergeant's manner
of government ; for it is only through Prussianism that Germany is
held together and made one unit. In a few years time there will
be discontent and the dividing again of the people into factions-
a decadence, a breaking-up. Then Germany becomes less for-
midable. Time is on our side. But, as usual, England has to pay
heavily to keep out of war. In other words, England buys her
peace. But it is worth while. Our financial strength at present is
our strongest weapon of defence."
Though written in October, 1938, the view expressed by the
Politician that Mr. Chamberlain would be accused of being a
Fascist was given expression to by Mr. Atlee, the Opposition Leader,
in the House of Commons on February 28th, 1939. He said: " The
Prime Minister might have been a dictator addressing a Fascist
Grand Council . . . "
Tha,t, the D~ctators are waiting for " the last act of the Spani~h
tragedy remains to be seen. German and Italian troops are still
in Spain, though the majority are now reputed to be withdrawn.
The truth of the Politician's statement that " only Chamberlain's
21
extreme caution saves the situation in this instance " may be in-
ferred by his determination not to break the Italian Agreement. In
his speech on April 13th, 1939, after the annexation of Albania by
Italy, Mr. Chamberlain said: " No doubt some will say that we
should now declare that the Anglo-Italian Agreement must be con-
sidered to be at an end. I do not take that view myself. Nobody
with any sense of responsibility can in these days lightly do any-
thing that would lead to increase in international tension, and
everybody would deplore the loss of the advantages that follow
from international agreements arrived at after mutual discussion."
Commenting on the Prime Minister's speech, The Evening
Standard applauds his declaration '' which combines firmness with a
determined refusal to take any action which might in any way bring
war nearer . . . such as has been urged upon him from some
quarters. He has refused to denounce the Anglo-Italian treaty ..
his desire to leave the door open to the establishment of genuine
friendship between this country and Italy."
The fact that Germany was near bankrupcy is confirmed by
Herr Brinkmann of the Nazi Ministry of Economics in a long state-
ment which was reported in The Sunday Referee (March 19th,
1939). This statement showed that " economically, industrial
Germany is within sight of breaking-point."
Czecho-Slovakia became an unacknowledged colony of
Germany after the crisis of September, 1938, and Time has cer-
tainly " been on our side."
Readers will observe that the prognostications of both the
Financier and the. ~olitician, made d_ll:ectly after the crisis of Sep-
tember, 1938, anticipated another cns1s for May of this year.
It is true th'.lt Herr. Hitler's ~peech (April 28th, 1939) some-
what eased the mternational tension But the correct interpreta-
tion of these phrases concerning the -:risis in May, is given at the
end of this pamphlet.
22
After Munich
On Sunday, October 16th, 1938, the Financier again: cqm-
municated by automatic writing through Miss Cummins. This was,
as in other instances, quite unexpected. The matter seemed urge~t,
so I told " Astor " to let him come. There followed a scnpt
written without a break, needed no editing (beyond punctuation,
etc.) and which seemed to have been carefully thought out before-
hand. It covered nine pages of foolscap and was inscribed in
forty minutes or less. The handwriting changed as usual.
" You have been a troubler of my peace," the Financier wrote.
" Oh! I am so sorry," I remarked.
" I deserted my garden and made the grand tour of the Teu-
tonic mind and searched everywhere for information that is not
known to journalists or perhaps even to the British Cabinet. Shall
I briefly summarise my conclusions ? " (Yes, please. )
"Firstly, let us go back a little way into the past. At the
time of the Anschluss, if Austria had been prepared to defend itself
and fight to the last against aggression, half the German army would
have mutinied. They certainly would have refused to fight those
they regarded as their kinsfolk.
" Half the army is discontented, Germany is seething with
discontent. It is cleverly concealed. When Hitler threatened to
march into Czecho-Slovakia, he placed himself in a very danger-
ous position. Chamberlain actually pulled him back from a preci-
pice. It seems that Hitler made this threat in the belief that when
he had taken possession of the whole of Czecho-Slovakia, France
and England would only protest, but would do nothing. Cham-
berlain, when he paid his first visit (to Germany) made it clear that
they would go to war. The Chancellor, after Chamberlain had
left, had practically what amounted to a nervous breakdown. Only
Goering and Goebbels were aware of the extent 9£ their Emperor's
hysteria.
" Goebbels counselled then a bold policy- rejection in totem
of Chamberlain and his proposals on his second visit, the gambler's
desperate last throw. Goebbels pointed out that Hitler could not
go back on'his demands ; if he did, he would lose his prestige with
the German people, the agitators would seize the opportunity, and
there might, indeed, arise a revolt that could not be crushed.
" Chamberlain has extraordinary intuition. He sensed the
whole situation, though he did not realise all the weakness of
Hitler's position. So he did the only wise thing possible. When
23
he retu:ned from Godesberg, he made England prepare for war with
such vigour that at last Hitler and his advisers could doubt no
longer. -
'' Do you realise that the trench-digging, the distributiQn of
gas-masks, evacuation of children, were all superb play-acting-I
mean from the point of view of the inner circle of politicians. They
~n~w perfectly well it was enough t9 bring Hitler to book. Musso-
lini then made a dramatic entry acc9rding to plan at the end of
the second act. So it was that we had what I believe some called
a miracle as a denouement. It was nothing of the sort. No miracle
occurred whatever. Each step was calculated and its results
foreseen.
. ''. There was only one serious danger-Hitler going mad and
m~~ctmg his military advisers with his madness. But England's
military parade brought them to their senses. Chamberlain saw all
along that, in common fairness, if the Germans in Czecho-Slovkia
Wished to return to Germany, they should be allowed to do so. The
difficulty was to get the Czechs to see this. They wouldn't until
the last moment. They, too, had to be made to realise that they,
in hundreds, would be slaughtered if they did nQt give in. Cham-
berlain did not perform a miracle, but he achieved a diplomatic
triumph and saved many Czech lives.
" Now, as to the future. At the present time, if Germany
fought the Allies she would not be able to maintain a war for more
than a month. The reason for this is that she is nearly bankrupt.
It is essential in a great war of that character, which employs all
the energies of the population,. to be_ able to bu.Y. supplies from
neutral countries, of the necessanes of life and murubons. Germany
could do neither. She couldn't buy. In r9r4 she was much
stronger financially; and, in any case, a r938 or r939 war would
make a far greater demand on the energies of the whole German
population.
" No, during the next eighteen months Germany is in no posi-
tion to go to war-anly the madness of a greater fear, fear of a
revolution within, would goad her rulers into starting a European
war: a last attempt to save themselves; for war would mean unity
against the common enemy within Germany at once.
" Wise statesmanship-that is to say, moderation in the coun-
cils of France and Britain-will prevent any such war during the
next eigh~een months. So long as they do not goad the Germans
into fighting by any humiliating demands, all will be well.
"You see, Hitler has created a new idol-a proud, free,
triumphant Germany. He daren't, for the sake of his own posi-
24
tion, allow this idol to be tarnished or desecrated through any sug-
gestion that Germany is not the equal of the Great Powers.
"What I prophesied long ago, I think, is now coming to pass
-an economic alliance (partly secret) between Britain and U.S.A.
This, in the long run, will be extraordinarily favoru:ab.le as ~egards
putting an end to unrest and war alarms. Bnta.m, with !11e
U.S.A.'s power for production and vast capacity for su~p.ly behind
her in the case of war, will be in a much stronger pos1tJ9n to act
as mediator in Europe and, perhaps, in time secure a reduction in
armaments output.
" I think there will be bargaining and panic at the termination
of the Spanish war, but no real danger of war in Europe over it. So
keep your head and remain calm when such a situation arises.
" Peace for the next ~ighteen months. Let that be your
motto. I cannot see further than that period. Germany will go
down hill slowly. Even now a great number of her people are
hungry-terribly hungry. There is want in her cities you do not
know of here. In such a situation lies the seeds of decay. Napoleon
lost through exhausting France. Germany is likely to lose, I think,
in the same way, without striking a blow over a period of time.
" Forgive this long dissertation. It is written out 9f intimate
knowledge. I have drifted over and through the great German
cities-an extraordinarily interesting experience--! do not regret it.''
Now, let us record a few corroborations in the above script.
The information that Germany was " seething with discontent "
is supported by an article in The Times previously quoted by
me (p. 18). The Financier says: "Mussolini then made a dramatic
entry according to plan." In his speech at Birmingham on January
30th, 1939, the Prime Minister is reported to have said: " I go
further and say that peace could not have been preserved if it had
not been for the events whic~ had preceded it-by the exchange of
letters between myself and Signor Mussolini in the summer of 1937,
and by the conclusion of the Anglo-Italian Agreement in February
of last year, because without the improvement in the relations be-
tween this country and Italy, I could never have obtained Signor
Mussolini's co-operation in September, and without his co-operation
I do not believe peace could have been saved." (The Times, Jan.
30th, 1939.)
This passage from the Prime Minister's speech confirms the
Politician's forecast of May 1st, 1938 (seep. u), when he declared
that Chamberlain's diplomacy had " saved Europe."
The Financier writes: " If it had not been for the visit to
Munich, the Czechs would have been slaughtered in hundreds if
25
they had not given in. Chamberlain did not perform a miracle,
but he achieved a diplomatic triumph and saved many Czech lives."
Speaking at Birmingham, March 17th, 1939, Mr. Chamberlain
said (referring to the Munich visit): " The peace of England was
saved; and, if it had not been for those visits, hundreds of thqusands
of families would have been mourning for the flower of Europe's
manhood."
The Financier remarked that " Germany could not maintain
a war for more than a month . . . she couldn't buy . . . " In
this connection the following observations from an " eminent
economist " published two months later in The Daily Sketch
(December 16th, 1938) are of intere?t. ·• Our financial resources
are far greater than those of Germany, and a rich c9untry must
always prove victorious in a prolonged struggle with a poor one.
Germany has a very small secret gold reserve and practically no
foreign investments. It is doubtful whether she could borrow
abroad on any terms. She could not last a month of war (italics
mine). So poor is her purchasing power abroad that the next war
would differ from the last in that there would be no necessity for
us to blockade Germany. Germany could not pay for anything
purchased overseas and, therefore, foreign powers would not sell to
her. Great Britain is strong because we have a gold reserve of
... " (giving the vast sums).
The bankruptcy of Germany has been referred to by Herr
Brinkmann (see p. 21).
The Financier writes of having already predicted " an economic
alliance " between U.S.A. and Great Britain. This is correct.
On March 4th, 1938, before the annexation by Germany of Austria,
he wrote : " I have every reason to believe that within two years,
understandings are come to by the Great European nations and
trade becomes freer then. England and U.S.A. are coming together
secretly much more. Their economic arrangements as regards trade
lead to a financial alliance which will do more than anything to keep
the peace of the world." The Anglo-American and Canadian-
American Trade Agreements were signed at Washington on Novem-
ber 17th, 1938.-(The Times, Nov. 18th, 1938.) From the
Financier's forecast given in above paragraph, it appears that he
anticipates more peaceful conditions in 1940. Recent developments
in U.S.A. tend to confirm his views. In referring again to the end
of the Spanish War, it will be noted that he uses the word " bar-
gaining."
26
·The Acquisition of Memel Foreseen
On Novem ber 19th, 1938, the Financier came again. I asked
if he had anything to tell us of the persecution of the Jews by Ger-
many. He wrote:
" Alas, yes. I have been greatly saddened and moved by all
I have seen. Hunger, death and s9rrow already are the rule among
the poorer classes over there. The older generation (of Ge~ans)
are repelled by the persecution, the youths are enjoying it, it satisfies
their desire temporarily for military glory. That, and the plunder,
are the reasons Hitler caused the Jews to be attacked at this time.
As he did not go to war he had, he felt, to blood his hounds-that
is to say, the youth of the country. This diversion takes the peo-
ple's minds off the tyranny under which they labour, or with the
thoughtful causes them to despair-to be afraid to conspire. Man!'
J ews will die while nations confer and talk. But it seems as if
Roosevelt is seriously considering refusing to sell any further
materials for the manufacture of munitions to Germany. The only
fear is lest the financiers who benefit from the sale will object. But
I think Roosevelt will put it through. Otherwise is seems that all
that is done is the taking by the various countries of a quota of
Jews from Germany . . . I think that, from the point of view c,f
England, this Jew persecution is, politically speaking, all to h~r
advantage--America is, as it were, thrown into her arms. It will
help to strengthen our secret alliance with U.S.A. Other countries
in Europe are afraid now of Germany, and therefore tend to stand
together· against her.
"By the way, there will be another crisis when Germany
appears to w~t _like a dog to take a bite of territory on the. N?rth-
East-the obJecbve may be the port of Memel. Lithuania rs likely
to be threatened. There will be vehement protests. I think it
likely they will be disregarded and there seems a real danger 9f
war. But it appears that Germany gets her way and she gets some
scraps of territory in that direction . . . Hitler seems to carry on
for eighteen months or two years. Then he is removed and it seems
as if there is a coup d'etat and a new regime. The old bullies go
. . . But the new rulers, though not as bad as their predecessors,
will stiJl be rather hostiJe to world progress. The coup d'etat
appears to bring splits in the country . . . ''
The persecution of the Jews in Germany broke out 9n Novem-
ber 9th, 1938, and the alleged atrocities were said chiefly to be P.e~­
petrated by the youth of the nation. What the Financier antici-
pated on November 19th came to pass, for though, as time went on
27
various countries conferred, all that they were able to do was to
take a quota of Jews into their different countries.
February 2nd, 1939, brought the announcement that America's
frontier was " in France." This led to considerable fury in
Germany and to controversy in the U.S.A.
In view of the statement concerning a secret alliance with
America recorded in ab9ve script, the following extract from The
Times (Feb. 3rd, 1939) is of interest: " There thus remains thE! accu-
sation that the President has so enlarged the road of French and
British access to American industrial facilities as either to have
made this country the virtual ' ally ' of two European powers, or
at least to have gone through the preliminary motions of an ' alli-
ance ' . . . A number of Republicans and some Democrats . . .
now ~~sist that the President is conducting a secret foreign policy
Now, as regards the Financier's forecast concerning Memel.
December 12th, 13th, 1938, etc., showed results of the elections
in Memel-land to be a foregone conclusion, the campaign having,
apparently, been conducted on the same lines as those adopted
" by Herr Heinlein in the penultimate stages of his struggle with
the Prague Government.' '
Memel passed into the Greater German Reich on March 23rd,
1939. The Financier's prediction of November 19th, 1938, was
thus fulfilled.
It will be observed that, referring to Memel, this communicator
stated that he anticipated another crisis and " a real danger of
war." From this remark we may assume he saw the cloud of war
which was precipated by the threat of Germany to Danzig and the
subsequent menace to peace over Poland at th~ ~nd of March, 1939.
This culminated in the British Government givmg an assurance of
support to Poland if her independence were threatened. " Real
danger of war " over this situation has been evident ever since.
As regards the forecast that Hitler carries on for eighteen
months or two years and there is then a new regime, I quote again
from the article describing conditions in Germany and published in
The Times (Jan. 2nd, 1939). "There is a widesprea~ feeling of
resentment against the Party . .. proved wholly unsmted for the
posts to which they were appointed. Many genuine en~husias!5
have been disillusioned by the spectacle of these men usmg their
positions for personal gain. Ex-servic~ men, in particular, have
had the feeling that their very real seI'Vlces to Germany have been
forgotten . thus a background of discontent has always been
present ... Possibly, there is a greater opposition tQ Hitler to-day
28
than for some time past. It is, however, an un?rg~sed. opposif
tion and a divided opposition. For, thong~ uruted m ,?1slike 0
the present regime, it has no agreed alternative to offer.
No~E.-Because the Financier appears to be very much in
touch with present world conditions, it must not be inferred that he
spends his new life only in studying market prices and Foreign
affairs. As indicated (p. 16) he has other work; for rest and re-
creation he has his garden (p. 22). It is obvious that, granting
survival of human personality and of memory, he would be an-
xious to reassure those he has left on earth on the matter of war.
(p.33). For totem read toto, (p. 22). E.B.G.
29
The Crises of March and May 1939
On Christmas Day, r938, Miss Cummins and I were prepared
for one of the group of Messengers to continue his writing, but
once again " wish-fulfilment " played no part in the proceedings.
M., a young daughter of the Financier's who had died some years
ago, asked to be permitted to speak. The matter seemed urgent,
so I let her do so. Towards the end of the sitting, she said she had a
message from her father. She was asked to say that there would
be no war, but " a great panic later in the year-probably May." I
asked if this would be in connection with Spain? She replied:
"Yes, Italy, backed by Germany, tries to be greedy."
This was the first indication that the month of May would bring
trouble, as I then concluded, in c9nnection with the Mediterranean.
It will be recalled that the script of October r3th, r938, predicted
a crisis at the termination of the Spanish War. Later, this is re-
ferred to more definitely by the Financier himself.
On January 25th, r939, we were rung up by the Editor of
Prediction, who asked if we had received any indications that there
would be no war? If so, could we let him have an article by first
post the next morning on this matter. We were occupied with other
affairs until 4.30 p.m. At this hour I obtained fuller details from
the Editor. Miss Cummins and I decided to have a special sitting
in order to augment (or otherwise) the existing information we had
on the subject. This automatic script published in Prediction
(March), was issued on February roth, r939. It was written by
the Financier and runs as follows:
'' I have told you before, and I repeat it again, there is to be
no war during the next few years. I cannot see farther. There is
to be no European war in which many countries are involved. You
will hear of riots and you will hear of horrible deeds committed in
Spain, and in March nations will be faced with a serious crisis. The
majority of people will believe that war is inevitable. This belief
is entirely mistaken.
" In May also I anticipate a period of great anxiety. Indee~,
throughout the summer there will be much uncertainty. Public
opinion will go up down, be swayed this way and that by the
collective fears of a great number of men and women.
'' During the times of anxiety and especially during the perio~
of panic I advise every sensible man and woman to go about their
work calmly and fearlessly, holding in their minds the idea of peace.
This in itself will be beneficial and help to produce a stability of
outlook which must in time re-establish confidence. In that at-
30
mosphere, nations should eventually come to a point in which they
distrust each other less and can begin to confer at last with a
genuine determination to settle their differences.
" It must be borne in mind that both Hitler and Mussolini are in
a difficult position and it should be realised that, though they are
going to attempt a big bluff fairly soon and through threats en-
deavour to bully the other Great Powers into yielding up territory,
they will not, on this occasi~n, obtain what they are aiming fo!·
In other words, though there is a measure of compromise, they will
fail to pull off their bluff. They do not, in other words, become
masters of the Meditenanean.''
" The internal situation of the larger but not greater Germany
is very serious, economically speaking. There is grave discontent,
because of the rationing system, because of the long hours and the
regimenting of the people. Italy also is in a serious :financial
position, more serious than is realised. So the two autocrats at
the head of these countries, though they go very far in their threats
of war, do not, when the moment comes for the :final decision, make
war.
" Of course, ordinary people will only hear a certain amount
of what is going on in regard to the discussions between the repre-
sentatives of these European powers. But though we go very near
to war during the coming year, I assure you that there will be none
as anticipated. Actually, Italy is in a worse position than Germany
--0r I should say, the Fascists and their Dictator are less welded
together than the Nazis and theirs.
" Mussolini's grip is slackening. He is already a defeated man
and I see that his time is not long. There is going to be disturbance
and trouble in Italy, but not quite yet. That seems to come next
year, though it is difficult to guage the time in that connection.
Eventually.' bu~ not for some time yet, this clumsy, larger Germany
becomes disumted and the seeds of decay are already taking root
in it.
'' All I would ask of you in England in the coming time is to be
cheerful, to wor~ and tra.de as if peace lay before you. For though
there is econon;iic war (rn other words, fierce trade competition),
you are not gomg to have a "'.ar ?~ arms. Put the idea of bombs
dropping on. London and ~e big cities of England out of your head.
It is not gomg to happen .
He ended with the following paragraph: " Rely on Germany's
and Italy's economic weakness when it comes to the point. They
are afraid to make war because they know they can't last the course.
Rely also on the backing of the United States in regard to materials,
etc., and supplies. The fear of the backing of the United States
31
in this respect in the event of war will have a strong influence on the
Dictators in the hours of crisis-France and Britain stand together
but they have others behind them also."
In this script of January 25th, 1939, the Financier refers to
" riots " and" horrible deeds committed in Spain." For days after
the fall of Barcelona at the end of March newspapers reported the
horrors which were being perpetrated in that country. As for the
riots, it may be taken that the Financier indicated the outbreaks
in India and Burma which occurred about nth of F ebruary. The
Times reported (February 13th and 14th) that numbers had been
killed in the rioting, and that the situation was " still grave."
British troops patrolled the streets of Cawnpore and extra police
were drafted in. " All normal life in the city is paralysed."
The forecast given on Januay 25th that " in March, nations
would be faced with a serious crisis " was entirely justified. In
spite of his assertion that Germany would make no more territorial
claims in Europe, Hitler re-started his campaign of appropriation,
and on March 15th, 1939, German troops occupied Bohemia and
Moravia. British and French Ambassadors were recalled from
Berlin. It will be observed that the communicator refers to
"Nations" and not "the Nation, " as being faced with a crisis.
Readers may notice that, on Christmas Day, 1938, the Finan-
cier's daughter, M., stated that there would be" a great panic later
in the year, probably May." In reply to a suggestion from me,
referring to Spain, she said: " Yes, Italy, backed by Germany,
tries to be greedy."
Up to the time of putting these writings into book form, the
anticipated claims by Italy have not been seriously put forward.
In his speech on March 26th last Signor Mussolini stated that " the
Mediterranean was a vital area for Italy " and referred to the ques-
tions ' ' which Italy had to settle with France, problems of a colonial
character-Tunis, Jibuti and the Suez Canal." The Daily Tele-
graph as recen~ly as July 3rd, 1939, reports the f~llowing: The
R elazioni l nternazionali, the well-informed weekly reVIew, says: ' If
in defending the status quo of Danzig, i:iaris and London think they
defend Tunis, Jibuti and Suez, the nustake could. not be greater.
By defen~ing ~anzig the gm: will speak <lf.~ wit~ the gun th.e
Italian clarms will be solved srmultaneously. This statement is
in strange contrast to the attitude of Italy in general towards being
mi.Xed up with Danzig, as has been published in various journals
on the matter. However, it indicates the attitude of the two dic-
tators to which the Financier refers in his writing of Jan. 25th, 1939,
where he says : " They will fail to pull off their bluff. They do
32
not, in other words, become masters of the Mediterranean.''
But I wish to introduce some possible explanation for the appar-
ent confusion as regards date in the above statement made by the
Financier's daughter. First, it was I who suggested Spain, and
thereby the Mediterranean, to the sub-conscious mind of the auto-
matist (or her mind may itself have taken this course, touching on
previous remarks and conscious conclusions).
But there is another explanation which, from experience, seems
to me a more likely one. The Financier's daughter is not particu-
larly interested in the affairs of this world. She is absorbed in her
present life and only occasionally co=unicates when some serious
matter of a family kind may have presented itself on earth. She
has stated that she finds difficulty in reading the future and does
not appear very interested in doing so. In other w9rds, I have
found her fqrecasts in various ways occasionally somewhat
inaccurate. I am thinking of an instance when this young co.~­
municator assured me through Miss Cu=ins that a certain antici-
pated family happening would not take place. At the sam~ sitting,
the Financier wrote that it would. He was entirely c9rrect. He
stated that he recollected the character of one of the parties con-
cerned and had read the mind of the other. Putting the two
together, he deduced that this event would take place. I cannot
enter into further details but give the above facts as an illustra-
tion that predictions, purporting to come from unseen entities,
would seem to be made in part by deduction, assisted, as has been
indicated, by certain glimpses into the future.
In passing on this message from her father, I would draw atten-
tion to the wording of the remarks in question : they denote a cer-
tain happy carelessness in contrast to the Financier's own very firm
statements. They should not therefore be taken too seriously.
It will be noted that the Financier did not specify the form the
panic would take.
To continue the chain of predictions given by the Financier,
it is necessary to explain that his fainily has no direct contact with
him through psychic means. However, he occasionally gives me
messages to certain members of it. These I pass on.
33
The Fall of Madrid
. On_ ]an~ary 27th, 1939, " Astor " again wrote that the
F10a?c1~r wished to speak. He referred to his previous com-
munication and said that he was thinking of his daughter and
grandsons when he wrote it. "As the latter are on the Stock
Exchange," he said, " I want them to bear in mind that, this year,
however near we seem to be to war, there is no war. Let them
buy and sell accordingly . . . it is merely the advice of an old
financier. "
H e continued spontaneously: " I am inclined to believe that
May sees the fall of Madrid. It won't be before then, I fancy."
. "Oh ! But Barcelona has just fallen," I remarked. " So
rt seems probable that the rest of Spain will fall."
" Not yet. But there will be some gross demand from
Mussolini shortly- March most likely, and then there comes a
cns1s. But somehow it misfires. Chamberlain is going to be firm
then. That will steady things. But all through the summer,
Europe will be in a most disturbed state-according to experts on
your side 'anything may happen.' But that anything won't happen
- a polite disguise for the word " war."
It will be noted that the Financier mentions that May would
see the fall of Madrid. This was inaccurate, inasmuch as the city
surrendered to the Nationalist troops at the end of March. When
this error later on became apparent, I did not draw Miss Cummins's
attention to it. She was quite unaware that the fall of Madrid had
been mentioned in any co=unication. But at a sitting on April
16th, 1939, when the Financier was again writing, I commented
on this error of his. Instantly he made the following reply. The
explanation had not occurred to me. He wrote (underlining the
first words) :
" Yes, but it does not fall to Franco until May. So far, Franco
has been afraid to enter Madrid for fear of assassination, for fear
that he and his advisers may be blown up or shot. So I was right
as regards it not being conquered until May, for Franco cannot
enter it as a conqueror till then. They are, meantime, busy combing
out the Republican ringleaders in it so as to make it really a con-
quered city."
With referrence to the " gross demand from Mussolini "
(January 27th), I am inclined to think that Hitler's name shot,ld
have been substituted for that of Mt,ssolini. This may have been
a slip on the part of the communicator, i.e., the wrong name may
have first been caught by the automatist's brain and left unobserved
34
on paper by the communicator. (I have evidence that this. do~
occasionally occur). It will be seen by what follows that Hitlers
annexation of Czecho-Slovakia was th~ incident indicated.
It is curious to note that, in his speech on April 4th, Lord
Stanhope (who may be considered " an expert "), is reported. to
have used the words " . . . the fleet to be ready for anything
that might happen "-the Financier's exact words.
Confirmation of the Financier's statement concerning conditi?ns
in Madrid appears in The Sunday Referee (May 14th). Re~em?g
to the cancellation of General Goering's visit to that city, their dip-
lomatic correspondent wrote: "Gestapo agents in Spain reported to
Berlin that Madrid is full of Republicans ready to take the chance
of a long shot at a distinguished Nazi or Fascist."
Had The Times correspondent known of the Financier's prog-
nostications concerning the fall of Madrid and the termination of
the Spanish War, given on January 27th, 1939, he could hardly h~ve
chosen more apt words with which to confirm it than those which
follow.
Writing from Madrid on May 18th, 1939, he says : "' General
Franco entered Madrid to-day, thus ringing down the curtain on
the Spanish War. This, according to a statement made by the
Minister of the Interior, is the symbolic termination of the war
and victory's most perfect crown." (The Times, May 19th, 1939) ·
It may now be of interest to introduce a few personal details.
T.he information contained in the writing of January 27th, 1939,
d1?I>layed considerable accuracy as regards the exact date of t_he
cns1
s precipitated by Hitler's annexation of Czecho-Slovakia in IIlld-
March. The Financier's daughter H . was going to the Sou~h. of
France for purposes of health early in February. During the ?1~g
of January 27th I remarked that, if we were to expect a cns1s Ill
March as suggested, she might have to hurry home on account of
it. He replied:
" Your time is difficult. But they seem to return just before
the. crisis or when it is upon Europe. But it does not spoil the
holiday;.~ don't ~ee that. All signs point to mid-March for the
new political excitement-growing to fever-heat near the end of
the month. But it seems that Chamberlain's Government hardens
an.d so s~eadies things. He has been a little flabby before. Hitler
thinks him a weak man. He is not. But Hitler has to learn that
yet."
The daughter in question had arranged to go to France on
February 7th. On the 5th of that month the Financier begged
again that his daughter H. should not worry about the European
35
situation. He wrote:
. . The leaders-Mussolini, Hitler, Chamberlain, Daladier-
are determined not to make war. The Dictators will present another
front when it suits their purpose and utter warlike sentiments. They
will secretly intrigue and pay agents in England to destroy build-
ings and human beings, and agents in Palestine for the same pur-
pose. But H. must not be alarmed about the world or any such
things."
Again I referred to the possibility of a crisis occuring before
the return of his daughter from the Riviera.
" It won't be till late in March, as I see it," he wrote, " and
in any case, it does not mean war. So their movements should not
be influenced by any political excitements. I see no panic-striken
crowds in the trains rushing home. Nothing of that kind occurs."
I remarked that really Hitler and Mussolini seemed to be rather
quiet since the U .S.A. implied that their intention was to back us
up in the event of a war of aggression. But he replied:
'' Oh, there will be crises, but May, as I told you, is the time
of serious uncertainty, and much of what goes on will be kept back
from the public, as I said before. So, though things become serious
at times, a great effort will be made to hide them from the public
in order to restore confidence and trade. What is quite certain-
Hitler and Mussolini know that war means revolution in their own
countries. So they will not go to war." (The communicator's
italics) .
After some conversation on family affairs, the Financier wrote:
" I am not, in the personal sense, a good prophet. My mind is
trained to see the future in a general sense for the world rather than
for the individual . . . for all my life trained me to tune into the
mind of the world and foresee the changes in it.''
Referring once more to the then approaching crisis, the
Financier said: " It is more a number of confusing issues than any-
thing else, and Hitler becoming rather desperate about the economic
situation and trying by threats and pleadings to extract money."
Now, the Financier remarked (February 5th) that his daughter
seemed to return " just before the crisis or when it is upon Europe."
She returned on March roth. The first hint of any disturbance in
connection with Czecho-Slovakia was reported in The Times on
Saturday, March nth. Unknown to the public, the crisis was
already upon Europe. (See also further on) . At that time, there
were certainly no '' panic-striken crowds rushing home.'' The
train on which she returned happened to be particularly empty.
It will be observed that the Financier remarks (January 27th)
that Chamberlain's Government is going to be firm, " it hardens
and so steadies things.'' And he further says that Hitler has to real-
ise that the Prime Minister " is not a weak man." This again is an
accurate forecast, for, six weeks later, Mr. Chamberlain's attitude
changed and, after his speech on March 17J:h, 1939, all newspapers
reported the shock that this stiffening had given to the Nazis.
It will be noted that the Financier wrote on February 5th,
1939, that Mussolini, Hitler, Chamberlain and Daladier were de-
termined not to make war. So far as the last two leaders mentioned
are concerned this statement is correct. However, a special corres-
pondent to The Evening Standard (April 5th, 1939) writes: " The
indications are that Germany and Italy have no intention of going
to war. They hope rather to extract benefits for themselves by
maintaining Europe in a state of nervousness."
Also, I believe, there is corroboration of the remark that
German agents were concerned with the recent bombing outrages
in England.
In the script of February 5th the Financier also refers to the
crisis as occurring " late in March. " Writing nine days after the
previous forecasts, it may well be that he visualised the events
subsequent to those of mid-1'.larch. T~at _crisis culminated in the
Memel incident and the Pobsh complications at the end of that
month (see p . 26).
The Financier refers to " a number of confusing issues and
Hitler becoming desperate about the economic situation." This
would seem to indicate, as I surmised, that the name of Hitler
should have been substituted for that of Mussolini in the
earlier scri~t-writing. . Th,ere were certainly very conflicting
issues resulting from Hitler s approach to the Rumanian frontier
and bis anxiety concerning the economic conditions in Germany
were very evident. It was just at this time that Herr Brinkmann
made the long statement on this matter to which I referred (p. 21).
Subsequently, we hear of the Trade Agreement signed between
Germany and Rumania on March 23rd, 1939.
37
Annexation of Czecho-Slovakia
Once again we have an illustration of how the theory of "wish-
fulfilment" failed. On Sunday, March 12th, 1939 (a day or two
before Miss Cummins went to Ireland for a short holiday, and two
days after the return of the Financier's daughter), we prepared for
a sitting with a Messenger for an express purpose. However,
" Silenio " intimated that the Financier was near. I was anxious
for a special sitting-knowing that it would be some time before we
had another, so I explained matters to " Silenio" through Miss
Cummins. He then gave the following message :
'' The Financier has said that the country of the Czechs and
Hitler's demands on it will lead to trouble at the end of the month
or some time soon. Without the knowledge of any people, even
now, there is crisis between the Allies and Hitler on this issue. But,
for fear of interference and of making difficulties in the trade of the
countries, it is all being kept very secret."
So far as the public knew at the time, there was no question
of the immediate annexation of Czecho-Slqvakia. The Times of
March rrth announced the beginning of the Slovak demand for in-
dependence. The Sunday Referee (March 12th), published the
following statement from Madame Tabouis: " The strength of the
Democracies and the firm speeches of British Ministers has led to
a change of plans by the Dictators. It is expected now that they
will postpone any further action until the autumn . . . At the
French Foreign Office no one believes in the imminence of war."
When reading this aloud to Miss Cummins before the sitting
that morning, I remarked that after all, it seemed that the Finan-
cier's prognostications regarding the March crisis were not going
to be fulfiled. As a result of Madame Tabouis's comments and by
reason of the fact that things seemed more settled on the Hitler front
she fully endorsed my views. In spite of this, however, Silenio
gave the above message at a very critical moment.
It is of interest to note that this communicator refers to Hitler's
demands then being made. The Times reports the following from
the Prime Minister's speech (March 18th): " Before even the Czech
President was received by H itler and confronted with demands
which he had no power to resist, the German troops were on the
move and within a few hours they were in the Czech capital . . .
Last Wednesday .. . was the day on which the German troops
entered Czecho-Slovakia, and all of us, but particularly the Govern-
ment, were at a disadvantage because the information that we had
was only very partial; much of it was unofficial
An interesting paragraph which bears on the above incident
appeared in an article by Madame Tabouis in The Sunday Referee
(May 7th, 1939). It runs: " It is now known that the German
Anny entered Prague on March 12th." If this statement is correct,
readers will observe the accuracy of the Financier's information
given above and on the very day. That the Prime Minister denies
knowledge of the German activities at that period, may be explained
by the Financier's words " very secret."
Now to revert to the script of January 25th, 1939. At the end
of the Financier's statements, I asked Miss Cummins's control to
call a certain entity or guide who refers to himself as " The Watcher
of the Company of Cleophas. '' He seems to be a messenger like
the other unseen intelligences who purport to dictate the books 9n
early Christianity to which reference is mad~ elsewhere. From time
to time he has given us some interesting examples of prevision.
When he had written his name, I enquired if he c9uld give us
further information on the international situation. He then wrote
this final message, which ran in strong contradiction to the pre-
vailing fears of the moment:
" I see in Europe dark clouds of fear and I see prisons filled
with men and women and suffering for them. There is much civil
strife; but I perceive no great war. I see poverty for some dis-
possessed people; but the fears of men are not fulfilled. Be of
good cheer! In this year ye pass through the Valley of the Shadow
of Death but come through unscathed. Peace, hardly retained,
will be retained in the coming year and the year after this one.
Then slowly the world comes out of these dark times when death
and slaughter seem certain, into a time of peace and security.
" For a while there will be in certain countries a continu-
ance of oppression and tyranny. But the King-Emperor and his
Empress lead their people into a new time, when fear of war
vanishes and peace is secured to your generation.
" There will be difficult times for some, and the people must
be prepared to face a certain economic stress. But they will come
through it well and, once the fear of war has gone, England will
prosper and take a leading position among the nations. Be without
fear! Do your work and keep faith in peace in your mind. By
so doing you help to bring nearer the time when uncertainty goes
and good days come again."
"The Watcher's " script was written through Miss Cummins
about 6 p.m. on January 25th, 1939. And it will be noted that
39
he says he sees " dark clouds of fear and I see prisons filled with
men and women and suffering for them."
Writing from Hendaye, Jan. 25th, The Times correspondent
says: " Although they are at the gates of Barcel9na, General
Franco's troops have not yet entered the city .. . Its fate was
practically sealed yesterday . . . When dawn broke to-day the
Nationalist columns . . . were in sight of the fortress of Monjuich
" (The Times, January 26th.)
On January 26th, the same correspondent, writing from
Barcelona, describes the scenes of enthusiasm when Franco's troops
entered the city on that date. The article ends with the following
remark: " Most of the important prisoners who had been confined
in the seminary of Monjuich and elsewhere had been taken with
the Republican Army to Northern Catalonia ... "-(The Times,
January 27th.)
Writing again from Barcelona on Jan. 29th, The Times cor-
respondent says: " Nationalist Barcelona is now four days old
. . . Monjuich prison was abandoned by its guards the night before
the Nationalists entered the city. Before they left they dealt out
summary justice to a number of prisoners, including women, whose
bodies are still lying on the western slopes Qf the hill . . . "-(The
Times, Jan. 30th.)
In a further article (The Times, Feb. 15th) he says: "The
maelstrom of passion let loose has horrified the world," and he
describes appalling crimes. " As General Franco's troops ad-
vanced," he writes, " they found a devastated countryside and
mutilated and tortured men, women and children. Tragedies of
the prison and of the cemetery, as well as of the home, assumed
terrifying proportions . . . "
From the above dates and approximate times given, it would
seem that the Watcher, at the time of writing, was literally seeing
the tragedy being enacted around " the terrible prison fortress of
Monjuich, which frowns over Barcelona." Enough horrors have
been enumerated above to prove the truth of the words of these
two communicators.
The " Error" of Al ban ia
Hoping to elucidate some explanation of the reference to seeing
the prisons filled, etc., on March 5th, 1939, I asked for " The
Watcher" once more. When he wrote his name, I said that, when
he wrote previously, he had spoken ~ though he actually saw
these tragedies being enacted at the moment of writing. He
replied:
" It was not only at the time. I saw the prisons filled with
men and women. In the coming months many will be taken up
and put in prison. In Italy more men, who are said to have
offended against the State, will be thrown into prison. Also in
Germany men will be secretly snatched from their hom~s and flung
into prison camps."
I again referred to the fact that at the moment of writing he
seemed to have seen the incident of which he wrote for it was
reported in the papers a few days later. I also referred to Spain.
He wrote :
"That was what I saw. But I saw that later on numbers of
people were taken up in Italy and Germany and imprisoned. There
will be more fighting in Spain. But the war is near its end. There
will be a crisis, that is quite certain. Not at once, but it seems that
Mussolini will commit some error shortly and he will lose through
it. His flag is slowly falling."
Referring to the last sentence, The Daily Telegraph's corre--
spondent, writing from Warsaw (July 7th) says : "It is felt here
that for the first time the initiative may gradually be passing from
the dictators to the Powers allied in the peace front.''
Miss Cummins returned from her short stay in Ireland at the
end of the month. No sittings took place until April 7th and 8th,
as she was engaged in giving some lectures and attending t9 other
matters. Albania was invaded by Italy on Good Friday, April
7th. The Saturday papers were of course full of it. On that
morning (8th) Astor wrote :
" So the world is turning, turning on its axis. The Financier
says, though, that Hitler's axis will be caught, the wheel will be
stuck in a rut- that this move of Hitler's in conquering Albania
will help the Allies' cause more than anything that has so far
occurred. The two dictators have acted thus in the hope that the
Balkan States will be terrorised into an alliance with them. But
actually, the contrary will be the effect. I se~ that this conquest
consolidates the South-Eastern States of Europe. They stand
togeth&r against the Dictators as a result of it. This sudden catas-
trophy is only catastrophic for Albania; in the long run it helps the
world generally. It will bring all the countries in line in their
determination to resist further aggression. It helps tQ minimise the
danger of a great European war. The wires are buzzing, 9r rather,
the ether is being kept busy with assurances from various countri~
to each other, that they will not be put down and trampled upon
by the Huns. But of course this is framed in polite diplomatic
language . . . ! !"
The Evening Star, April 8th, wrote: " Diplomats in many
capitals were engaged to-day in anxious activities arising out of
Mussolini's stroke in Albania. President Roosevelt has been using
the Atlantic telephone to consult key diplomats of U.S.A. in
Europe ... Signor Mussolini's Albanian adventure is regarded in
Washington as a diversion possibly intended to frighten Bulgaria,
Yugoslavia, Hungary and Roumania, and stop them from joining
the democratic Western Powers in the protection of peace."
"The Watcher's" prediction of March 5th concerning
Mussolini's " error " thus became apparent 9n Good Friday,
April 7th. There was no hint in any newspaper concerning move-
ments of Italian troops in that direction until The Times referred
to the fact on April 4th and 6th. That this was the " error " to
which the Watcher referred is obvious from the following extracts:
" The British Cabinet meets this morning to consider the
efl;ects of the latest blow delivered to the battered fabric of inter-
national relations .. . Yet the Duce must have felt something
more than the temptation to add one more easily won medal to
his collection before he took a step that has so disastrously under-
mined his good repute in quarters to which he is certainly not
indifferent ... "-(The Times, April roth, 1939.)
" Public opinion throughout the world has once again been
profoundly shocked by this fresh exhibition of the use of force .. .
To everyone, whatever his faith, whether Christian or Moslem, it
must be apparent that a powerful nation has imposed its will 9n
a small and relatively defenceless country, and has done so by an
imposing show of armed force . . . " The Prime Minister. -
(The Times, April 14th, 1939.)
'' The manner of the Albanian rape and the execution of it on
Good Friday have profoundly shocked all classes 9f Italians. The
offer of the Albanian crown to the King of Italy is greeted with a
shrug of the shoulders."-(The Evening Standard, April 13th.)
Visiting India early in May, Dr. Schacht, formerly chief of the
Reichsbank, found to his cost that the invasion of Mpslem Albania
was bitterly resented there. ·
As a result of the Albanian conquest, the Prime Minister
announced on April r3th that the Government would lend all sup-
port in their power in the event of aggressive action being taken
against Greece and Roumania. On April r5th, President Roosevelt
issued his appeal to Hitler and Mussolini, urging them to give
assurance that they would attack no more independent nations.
On May r2th, Mr. Chamberlain spoke of the decision to conclude
a defensive agreement with Turkey. And the Turkish Foreign
Minister announced that " the invasion of Albania . . . had decided
Turkey to abandon her policy of neutrality and join the peace
front." (The Times, July roth, r939.)
Thus, as the Financier said, " all countries are being brought
into line " in order to resist further aggression.
NoTE.-In view of the announcement in The Daily Telegraph
on July 22nd and 24th that plans for a " peace loan" to Germany
had been discussed, it is of interest to recall a statement made by
the Politican on October r3th, r938 (p. 20). He wrote: " Time
is on our side. But, as usual, England has to pay heavily to keep
out of war. In other words, England buys her peace. But it is
worth while. Our :financial strength at present is Qur strongest
weapon of defence."
The Daily Telegraph reports (July 24th, r939) that Mr. H. S.
Hudson, Secretary for Overseas Trade, had made suggestions to
Herr Wohltat, Goering's right-hand man, " which might lead to
the avoidance of an European war." Amongst these suggestions
was the statement that Germany should " receive :financial assist-
ance for the necessary adaptation of her industrial life from war to
peace production. An international loan as large as £r,ooo,ooo,ooo
had been spoken of in this context . . . "
E.B.G.
43
The Hidden Crisis
Readers will have observed that the Financier and the Poli-
tician anticipated another serious crisis in May. Miss Cummins
and I had certainly expected some dramatic movement 9n the part
of Germany and Italy " at the termination of the Spanish war."
Nothing of the kind seemed to develop and we were faced
with the apparent fact that these communicators had somehow
miscalculated or misinterpreted forthcoming events.
On May 28th, Ig39, Miss Cummins and I were again prepared
for a " Messenger " to write. The Financier, however, gav~ ;i.
long account of the very serious crisis that had occurred. He wrote:
" I see you are disappointed because you have not, during May,
been provided with flaring headlines in the papers and a first-class
sensation. Actually, there has been a most dangerous crisis. It
has been going on behind closed doors, and we were, at one moment,
very near disaster. It is possible that the public will not learn of
this crisis until, years hence, the history of your times is written."
The Financier then proceeded to give an account of the obvious
difficulties which have confronted the British Government in coming
to terms in regard to the alliance with Russia. " I think the crisis
is over now and Russia is our ally," he wrote. Though he antici-
pated further scares and threats, he added: " There is no war
coming, be assured of that."
As I was in the habit of considering the possibility of the inter-
vention of the subconscious mind and of telepathy in all mediumistic
communications, I thought the Financier and Miss Cummins's
inventive mind had got over the difficulty rather well! But if
readers will recollect the various references made in connection with
the anticipated crisis (given in October, Ig38) they will recog-
nise that, if England and France failed to cqme to an agreement
with Russia, a somewhat serious situation might arise.
It will be noted that the Financier said that there would be
" another war-crisis next year (I939). It will be even more dan-
gerous because conducted with greater secrecy than the last one "
(September, Ig38). The Politician wrote: "When there is an
attempt at a settlement in Spain, it seems that another war-crisis
occurs. The public will know much less ab9ut it on this occasion.
That is why the position will be more dangerous than the position
last September. Manreuvres and negotiations are mostly carried on
behind the scenes" (italics mine). (pp. I6, 20, 24, 29, 35.)
I must confess that these sentences had always puzzled me.
They did not appear to fit into the nature of the crisis which I, and
44
doubtless others, had anticipated-i.e., demands by Hitler for the
return of the colonies, rewards from Spain for services rendered by
Germany and Italy, Italian claims in the Mediterranean, etc.
Readers will recollect a remark written on 25th January,
1939, by the Financier, stating that " in May " he antici-
pated " a period of great anxiety." Writing in October, 1938,
the same communicator referred t_
J " bargaining " at the end of
the Spanish war, " but no real danger of war over it " (pp. 24, 29).
Reviewing the above extracts in connection with recent events,
we may take it, I think, that the Financier and the Politician fore-
saw, in October, 1938, the serious crisis in May, 1939, during which
month the British and French Governments have been negotiating
" behind the scenes " and " bargaining " with Russia over the
terms of the proposed alliance.
With reference to the above, the following is not without
interest. Writing from Moscow on May 31st The Daily Telegraph
corresondent says : " In my opinion, however, M. Molotoff . . .
did show that the Kremlin is now committed to .the anti-aggression
pact, once the final bargaining concerning details has been com-
pleted .. ."
When and if this pact is signed between these three
Great Powers, it seems that the " ring of alliances," foreseen and
described in March, 1938, will be acomplished. And it is note-
worthy to remark that, when this prediction was made there was
no question of Russia being :ncluded in any pact with England and
France, nor was there, then, any reason to anticipate the necessity
for one-so far as our knowledge here went. Hitler had then only
gone so far as to annex Austria.
That lthe Financier's forecast concerning the .alliance with
Russia may be fulfilled, is indicated by the following quotation
from The Times, July 13th, 1939. It runs as follows:
" After three months of unremitting effort involving many
hours of exhaustive discussions between the representatives of
the three Powers, the triple pact of mutual assistance seems to be
gradually nearing completion. Many of the disputed points have
been agreed, and those gaps which remain are perceptibly narrow-
ing. Hopes have previously turned out to be premature, but with
every exchange of views the structure of the alliance becomes
better defined and the points of difference more isolated . . . ' '
In conclusion I would like to record a few extracts from more
recent scripts written by the Financier.
On April 7th, he wrote: " There is a hope of the turning of
45
the tide in the late autumn in money matters. At the approach
of Christmas or early in the New Year, there is some disaster to
Germany that upsets her internal affairs, the iron grip slackens
and there comes hope for the enslaved States in the Reich . . .
Watch the Mediterranean . . . "
On April 18th, he said: " There are many months of argument
and uncertainty but no war though again it seems inevitable. It is
Italy that cracks first." On May 17th, he depicted trouble over
Danzig and Spain, and finally on May 28th, 1939, he wrote:
" Italy will renew her demands in regard to French territory.
That will be part of the game of course, and she will again, I
think, ask for a share in the Su~z Canal ... In the autumn there
will be definite movements of great importance which will lead
the way to a better and more stable state of affairs for us."
It seems of interest to record this series 9f predictions (of which
thert: are still more) for they are reassuring in character and re-
markable for the accuracy of their prevision. Moreover, they
cover a considerable period. It would seem difficult, therefore, to
attribute them to telepathy from the living or to the subconscious
mind of the automatist (Miss Cummins). It wiU be noted that
two quotations given (pp. 8, 10) date from December, 1936.
Finally, I may add that the chief factor which has contributed
to the accurate reception of the statements concerning future events
given by these communicators lies, I think, in the remarkably clear
channel which, in Miss Cummins, they had at their disposal.
August wd, 1939.
NoTE.-The following few lines were written by the Financier
through Miss Cummins on Sunday, July 23rd, 1939: " Hitler and
Mussolini have been making very complete preparations for war in
connection with the Mediterranean and Danzig. But it is the
greatest bluff of all. They won't fight, but most people will believe
they are going to fight in September-possibly. Remember, no
war ! " (Communicator's italics.)
E.B.G.
Note: On Tuesday, August 22nd, 1939, Miss Cummins came
unexpectedly from Ireland to London. The surprise announcement
that the German Foreign Minister was flying next day to Moscow
to conclude a non-aggression pact with Russia was described as a
" world shock " by the Press. That afternoon the Financier wrote:
'' Ah, you are beginning to worry over the chessboard of
Europe again ! (Some remarks on above lines were made by me).
You must in these days expect the unexpected and look always for
the unforseen. But the final aggregate of all these manrevres
comes again to the same sum-a negative one. No great European
war ! England and France and Poland do not fight the Axis
Powers. This other Russian Dictator has not thrown over the Allies
and gone into opposition to them. But he does not trust either
side so he thinks it well to play with both and appear to make
agreements with both sides."
" Does Germany take Danzig and the Polish Corridor? " I
asked.
" I cannot tell you the exact details but I do see gains for
Germany and also much discussion and beating of the big drum.
But neither side fights, and Hitler does not become ma.ster of the
Mediterranean."
" Hungary is already becoming active and Turkey also."
"Yes, but I stand by what I said-'No War.' I told you this
was the greatest bluff of all. You should not have been surprised."
" I don't doubt what you say," I remarked, " But how is war
going to be avoided ? "
" Hitler, for economic reasons and other reasons, does not want
to fight. But he must pretend he is going to fight in an attempt
to secure Danzig and conquer the Balkans through terrorism, but,
no war."
" Do you see this as a form of vision ? "
" Yes, I get a general view of the future and the turn it takes.
I do not see the minor details. I simply get the impression of a
crisis and the usual panic but no war ensuing. I assure you that
nothing that has happened in the last 48 hours has led me to alter
my previous statements in regard to ultimate results.
" I can come again but she is slow to-day."
(This remark refers to Miss C., who was tired after her long
night journey. E.B.G.).
47
The following message was written on the morning of the day
the Pact between Germany and Russia was signed. (Wednesday,
August 23rd, r939.)
"I found it difficult to write yesterday. I take a very reassuring
view of the .present European situation now I have been able to
study it. The following are my conclusions:
" Hitler feels that he is being cornered; he is growing desperate.
To save his face and his prestige he has climbed down and made
an appeal to Russia. The Pact between these two countries does
not bind Russia to any serious extent because she has inserted the
clause about aggression in it. It encourages the German people at
a difficult moment and it upsets the equanimity of the Allies. Hitler
will go on bluffing and will probably make more favourable terms
thereby than he deserves to obtain. But he has passed the peak
of his power so there is nothing to fear.
" Russia has made no concessions to Hitler. Remember No
War, and I do not see humiliation for the British Empire. Assure
H . that there is nothing in the present situation to give cause for
worry. On the contrary, I think the tide is turning."
(Reprinted August 29th, r939, when 'IJ.!ar seems inevitable.-E.B.G.)
Concerning the Cleophas Scripts
(with photograph)
by Geraldine Cummins
2/-
The Controls of
Geraldine Cummins
by E. B. Gibbes
I/-
May be obtained at :
25, Jubilee Place, Chelsea, S.W.3
Watkins, Cecil Court and Psychic Societies
