{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__francis___blavatsky_besant_and_co.pdf","mytitle":"Blavatsky Besant And Co","mylang":"de"}
Blavatsky, Besant and Co.
(The Story of A Great Anti-Christian Fraud)
By T. M. F ran cis
i
W ith a Preface by
H e r b e r t T h u r st o n , S. J.
\
LIBRARY SERVICE G U ILD
Saint Paul, Minnesota
Foreign Agent: George E. J. Coldwell, Ltd.
17 Red Lion Passage, London, England
j
rr-T r
Copyright 1939, by
Library Service Guild
Saint Paul, Minnesota
Printed in the United States of America
m m
m m m
rnmimmk
s
S
ssssaBiss
M a d a m e H . P . B l a v a t s k y
Founder of the Theosopkical Society
Introduction
Theosophy claims to be the final truth given to mankind, and
to have been taught in sundry times and divers places adown the
ages by Supermen called Mahatmas (Great Souls), who, having
completed their evolution, undertake to guide the evolution of the
race. These Great- Souls are said to have founded all the different
religions that exist or have existed, suitable to the needs and degree
of civilization attained by mankind through past ages and in the
present time.
Theosophy, it is claimed, was perfectly revealed to Madame
H. P. Blavatsky, a Russian lady, by Mahatmas who, it is alleged,
live in Tibet.
On their instruction, she founded the Theosophical Society in
1875, wrote voluminously in explanation of their teaching, and pro­
duced extraordinary “Phenomena” in proof of that teaching.
In India, Theosophists use for the most part Sanskrit and Budd­
histic terminology.
Aware that a spring cannot be found purer than at its source,
we shall trace from its beginnings the turgid stream of Modern
Theosophy.
For convenience we shall follow the fortunes of the founder,
Mme. Blavatsky: examine her works and deeds; dip into the affairs
of the Society after her death; comment on a few of the many extra­
ordinary Theosophical tenets that are destined, we are told, to re­
place the Christian religion; and conclude with a chapter on
Theosophy versus Christianity. By Theosophists, Mme. Blavatsky
is conveniently designated “Madame,” “H.P.B.,” or “The Old Lady.”
A popular presentation of Theosophy is given on page 109 in
the Appendix.
M o st Strang e, Bu t Y et M ost T ruly Will I Speak.
— Measure for Measure, Act. V.
My religion is Truth, lor there is
Truth.
no religion higher than
—Mme. Blavatsky,
II there be no Mahatmas the Theosophical Society is an
absurdity. —
Mrs. Besant.
Preface
When the Roman poet spoke of Hypermenestra as a
splendide mendax he commended the lie by which she saved
her husband’s life, though pledged to murder him. Madame
Blavatsky might also be described as splendide mendax,
but she was “a magnificent liar” in quite another sense. It
was her pose of utter frankness, her readiness in subterfuge,
her ingenuousness in avowing beforehand, and even exag­
gerating, all those shortcomings which people could not
fail to find out for themselves, which persuaded those who
made her acquaintance that she w as'a woman with no non­
sense about her, an open character, transparent as the day.
Undoubtedly she was capable of making herself very attrac­
tive. She had a certain Falstaffian audacity and nimbleness
of wit which captivated all but the very strait-laced. She was
bon diable among her intimates, and with them made no pre­
tences. She lied and railed and jested, just as she smoked,
and, on occasion, gormandised, without restraint, carrying it
off by sheer force of personality. But she was a woman with­
out moral principle, and it is incredible that any higher
revelation of spiritual things should have come into the
world through such a channel.
I am not saying, of course, that Theosophy stands pledged
to any teaching which is in open conflict with public moral­
ity. No one can dispute that there are excellent principles
inculcated upon and often practised by Theosophists, but
these things are the common heritage of all religious teach­
ings since Christianity came into the world. The same may
be said of Mohammedanism, or of Christian Science, or for
that matter of the Neo-Platonism which was built up upon
\ a philosophy of almost purely pagan origin. On the other
*{hand no one can claim to decide what Theosophy does or
does not precisely teach. „ Mrs. Annie Besant, who had as
good a right to speak as anybody, openly declared: “I do
not consider that the Theosophical Society has any moral
code binding on its members”, and again “our religious
liberty of opinion—irreligious license say the dogmatists—
is secure”. But this language filled the Point Loma Theoso-
phists with horror and indignation, and in any case it musl ®
]
never be lost sight of that there are at least three or foui
independent organizations professing to be representative
of the true spirit of Madame Blavatsky, all of which have
devoted much of their energies to anathematizing one an- ^
other with more or less vehemence. Throughout the whole
of its course the career of the Theosophical Society has been ^
marked by a series of scandals and schisms, affecting nol
merely the rank and file, but the most prominent represen
tatives of the movement. Some of these domestic entangle ^
ments have been pretty fully described in the pages whicl
follow, but a complete chronicle could hardly be attempted
in a work ten times the size of the present.
Regard being had to the career of Madame Blavatsky ^
herself, as the author has here recounted it from evidence
which cannot be challenged, Theosophy stands unequivocally
condemned by one of her own utterances. “There was never,’
we read in Isis Unveiled (vol. 11, Ch. 7, p. 333), “a grea \
religious reform that was not pure at the beginning”. V
ery
true; and from this it follows that an organization, begottei j
by one who was morally, and socially an outcast, and fur
ther indebted for its initial successes to systematic deception
and trickery, can make no claim to teach mankind a higher
way of life, or help in any way to a clearer revelation ol ■
the divine economy of the universe. “Do men gather grapes
of thorns, or figs of thistles?”
H e r b e r t T h u r s t o n , S . J.
July 1, 1939
London, England.
Who’s Who
(In Blavatsky, Besant and Co.)
1
t Blavatsky, Mme. H. P.—Russian. Founder of the T.S., 1875, New
r York. Produced “phenomena” by alleged Mahatmic agency.
On investigation by the Society for Psychical Research, the
phenomena was declared fraudulent and Madame an impostor.
6 She died in London, 1891, at the age of 60.
Besant, Mrs. A nnie—Joined the T.S., 1888. Elected president of
the T.S., 1907. Died at Adyar, 1933, aged 86.
Coulom b, M o n . and Mm e . E.—Handyman and housekeeper at the
T.S., Adyar. In 1884 confessed to have been confederates of
Mme. Blavatsky in producing spurious phenomena.
Damodar—Hindu secretary to Mme. Blavatsky. Cooperated in
frauds and forgeries.
H artm ann, D r. F.—German-American Theosophist. On Board of
Control at Adyar. Wrote in favor of phenomena.
H odgson, R.— Graduate of St. John’s College, Cambridge. Was sent
to Madras to investigate alleged phenomena; e.g., Mahatma
letters, etc. His report was accepted by the Society for Psychical
Research and Mme. Blavatsky was declared a charlatan.
H u m e , A. 0 .— Indian civil servant of high rank. Joined the T.S.
For sometime believed in and wrote in favor of phenomena.
Judge, W. Q.—American lawyer. Vice-president of the T.S. Ac­
cused of forging Mahatma letters to gain advancement in the
T.S. Left the T.S. and founded independent T.S. in New York.
Died in 1896.
K r is h n a m u r t i, J.—Brahman youth whom Mrs. Besant put in train­
ing at Adyar, 1911, as the vehicle of the future World Teachei
and the new Messiah. Many lawsuits fought on his account.
L e a d b e a t e r , C. W.—Ex-Anglican curate. Joined Mme. Blavatsky
1884, as Theosophist tutor to Krishna. Occulist and clairvoyan
with an evil reputation.
O l c o t t , Co l . H. S.— American engineer, lawyer, and journalist.
Co-founder of the T.S. with Mme. Blavatsky. President of the
T.S. until his death at Adyar, 1906.
S in n e t t , A. P.— Sometime editor of the Pioneer (Indian). In 1880
“privileged” to communicate with Mahatma K. H. through Mme.
Blavatsky. Wrote result in The Occult World and Esoteric
Buddhism.
S o l o v y o f f , V. S.— Russian. Man of letters. Attracted to Theosophy
by Mme. Blavatsky. Exposed her phenomena in Europe in A
Modern Priestess of Isis, chiefly valuable for a collection of
Madame’s undisputed letters.
CHAPTER I
The biographical sketch of Mme. H. P. Blavatsky,
in which the amazing career of this versatile Russian
adventuress, as traveler, spiritualist medium, biga­
mist is set forth from her own undisputed letters, and
the testimony of her cousin Count S. J. W itte, some­
time Russian Ambassador to W ashington. H er vir­
ginity myth is likewise exposed in this chapter.
Helen Petrovna Blavatsky (nee Hahn) was bom in the Russian
Ukraine, July, 1831, and died in London, May 8, 1891. “It is
generally known among her followers,” writes Mr. C. W. Leadbeater,
“that our great founder when she left the body in which we knew
her, entered another which had just been abandoned by its original
tenant.”1
Her father was an army captain, and her mother an authoress
of some importance in Russia. But to create an impression and ad­
vance her career, Mme. Blavatsky had a coronet printed on her
visiting cards.
She acquired American naturalization before sailing for India.
When not yet seventeen, piqued at the remark that even General
Blavatsky would not marry such a headstrong girl, she “made up
to him,” married him within three months and left him within three
more. She declared that the General was nearer seventy than sixty
at the time, but he did not die till 1892, a year later than herself.
Since her cousin states he was married in the forties, H.P.B.’s state­
ment must be accounted for as one of her customary exaggerations.
There is no detailed account of her wanderings for some twenty-
five years. It was ten years after her marriage before she returned
to her home. Her own accounts of her wanderings, given on occasion
to Sinnett and others, are contradictory and, in general, fictitious.
i 13
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
But fortunately certain important lacunae can be filled in from th{
Memoirs of her cousin, Count S. Y. Witte. Sinnett, her biographer5piri
says that H.P.B. kept no diary, and that at the distant date (1886) e^ to
when he wrote Incidents2 from her notes and narration, “she car^0
give no very connected story of those complicated wanderings.,wom
In Letter LXI she wrote: “Between H.P.B. from 1875 and H .P.jA ksa
1831 . . . is a veil drawn.”3 did i
28, 1
In 1858 she was in Paris, where she met the American medium
Dongas Home, from whom she took lessons in Spiritualism. “H
,
converted me to Spiritualism,” she said.4
We next hear of Madame in New York. At that time spirit
ualism was booming in the States, mediums were in demand and bij
money was being made. Madame was in low water, forty-thief
years of age, with a stormy life behind her, as we shall see,
America “the only refuge left in the world.” The star-turn amon^ .
mediums was that of the Eddy brothers of Vermont. Crowds flocke^^
to their homestead. Thither in October, 1874, came a reporter fiL*
the New York Graphic, a colonel by government courtesy, a lawya
by profession who dabbled in spiritualism as a paying hobby, h
name Henry Steel Olcott. Thither also came Madame H. P. Blaval
sky, writer and traveler, deeply versed and interested in Spiritualisi
and Occultism of every complexion. They met, never to par
Charmed by Madame’s versatility, stories of travel, and allege*
occult knowledge, Olcott wrote her up as only an American journal
ist could. Later a Mahatmic letter (No. xliv) from Master M. to
Sinnett was precipitated to strengthen the alliance of Colonel and
“Countess,” which ran: “Casting about, we found in America th(
man to stand as leader. We sent her [H.P.B.] to America ant
brought them together.’
Madame longed to let her countrymen know all that was goto
on at the Vermont farm and elsewhere in the States, and incidental^
to augment her slender and casual income. It happened that ^
,*» %
14
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
Spiritualist writer, Andrew Jackson Davis, whom she met, knew the
editor of the Leipzig Psychische Studien, a Russian, A. K. Aksakoif,
, who doubtless would welcome literary contributions from a country
i woman on American Spiritualistic phenomena.5 Davis wrote to
Aksakoff, telling him of his unconventional country woman. Madame
did not wait for a reply, but wrote directly to Aksakoff on October
28, 1874:
Excuse the liberty I take in addressing so uncere­
moniously one to whom I am entirely unknown. The facts
are these: I have been living in America for about a year
and a half, and have no intention of leaving.. . . An attempt
should be made to explain at home what is now going on
in America, in England and in France. . . .
Before Aksakoff could answer, she wrote on November 14th
because something had happened to make her “bitterly repent”
having written the first letter. It was this: Aksakoff had replied to
Davis’s query concerning Madame, and not knowing French, Davis
had handed the letter to Madame to translate.
J’ai entehdu parler de Madame Blavatsky par un de
ses parents, qui la dit un medium assez fort. MalheuraTuse-
ment, ses communications ressentent de son moral, qui
n’a pas ete des plus severes.6
(I have heard Madame spoken of by one of her rela­
tions, who said she was rather a powerful medium. Un­
fortunately, her communications bear marks of her moral­
ity, which has not been of the severest kind.)
Madame did but affirm the truth of Aksakoff’s revelation:
Whoever it was told you about me, they told you the
truth in essence, if not in detail. . . . This past, like the
brand of the curse on Cain, has pursued me all my life,
and pursues me even here in America, where I came to be
far from it and from the people who knew me in my youth.
. . . I was a “materialist” till I was nearly thirty, and be­
lieved and did not believe in spiritism. As I did not be­
lieve in God I could not believe in a future life. Morality
15
BLAVATSKY, BE8ANT AND CO.
ami good deed* 1 regarded a* a social garment, for the sake
of propriety. . . . X ran amuck against society and the start
established proprieties. . . . she ]
To Aksakoft’s assurance of goodwill she answered: w^e
I do not know how to thank you for your infinite f°r8
goodness. Though you have the right, like any honorable
man, to despise me for my sad reputation in the past, you
are so condescending and magnanimous as to write to me.
. . . When I had read your letter I saw how I had been mis- ^erg
taken in you, and that you were ready to stretch out a help- by t
ing hand, even to a sinner like myself.7 Bla\
She then enters into a long account of Olcott’s writings, tl ^our
phenomena of spiritualism and her own place therein. To this n
shall return.
It would be no part of our business to pry into the private lil
of Madame Blavatsky, were it not that late in life she publicly d
clared, despite her marriages, that she had always remained a virgii
and that in consequence of her virginity, she was privileged to “in his
veil Isis” and reveal the secret doctrine of a new and universe Bla’
religion. While the virtues or vices of the ordinary worshiper ar her
not judged to be a conclusive argument for or against his religion bur
it is generally held that founders and reformers are to be judged h Caj
a stricter standard, on the principle that bad trees do not bear goct shi]
fruit. Unlike Augustine of Hippo, who wrote his Confessions t ^
show forth the grace of God in his conversion from a carnally sinh “ft
life, Mme. Blavatsky, after founding the Theosophical Society, cor ast
tracted a bigamous marriage and published a lying account of he 01
having always remained a virgin. It will be well, therefore, to sc “ei
down what is known for certain of Madame Blavatsky’s morals an wr
marriages, and thus prepare the reader for her Virginity Myth (i *at
the offing) and, incidentally, show what sort of a character was th Pa
founder of Modem Theosophy. \
T - . St
In a twelve-page letter written to her some-time intimate frien* ce
and accomplice, Madame E. Coulomb, Madame Blavatsky gav
16
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
startling details of her life from 1857 to 1875, stating, inter alia, how
she had lived for years with a man named Metrovitch, passed as his
wife and reared their son.8 Mme. Blavatsky declared the letter a
forgery. Its contents are, however, corroborated by her own cousin.
In his Memoirs (1849-1915), edited by A. Yarmolinsky, 1921,
the distinguished Russian diplomat and Ambassador to the U.S.A.,
Serge Julevich Witte, who was created Count of the Russian Empire
by the Czar in 1905, tells an interesting story about his cousin, H. P.
Blavatsky, which throws a lurid light on the private life of the
founder of Modern Theosophy. The Count writes:
\ve One of my aunts, who married Colonel Hahn, achieved
some fame as a writer. Her eldest daughter was the cele­
brated Theosophist known under the name of Mme. Blavat-
lif sky. The personality and career of my cousin Helena Pet-
de. rovna Blavatsky, deserves to be treated at some length.
Being many years her junior, he gives the account current in
uo his family till he met her himself: how at an early age she married
’sa Blavatsky but soon abandoned him; how, disgusted at her conduct,
an her grandfather sent her to her father, stationed near St. Peters­
on burg; how, en route, she struck up an acquaintance with an English
b} Captain at Poti, eluded her escort and “stowed away in an English
od ship. She reached Constantinople, where she joined a circus as an
to equestrienne.” Readers of Incidents will recall how, at the age of
fu fifteen, Helen Petrovna used to ride Cossack horses bareback and
astride as she did at ten years of age. In Constantinople, Metrovich,
ie “one of the most celebrated opera bassos of the time, fell in love with
se her,” and together they toured the European capitals. Metrovich
1
( wrote to her grandfather, announcing their marriage. Some years
later “a certain Englishman from London” informed the grand­
parents by letter from America that he had been married to Mme.
i Blavatsky, who had gone with him on a business trip to the United
iStates.” H.P.B. is next heard of in Europe as “the right hand of the
1 celebrated medium of the sixties, Hume” [sic Home].
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
Having promised amendment, Madame got her grandfather’
permission to return to Tiflis, where Count Witte saw her for th
first time. He at once noticed her “enormous azure colored eyes... • -
Never in my life have I seen anything like that pair of eyes. Even 0j yw
evening Tiflis society folk, the jeunesse doree, would gather in oman(j wi
house around Helena Petrovna, and seances would last the wholfsophic
evening and often times the whole night,” the proceedings being
kept secret from the elders of the family.
unmiti
Madame was reconciled to her husband and even established ;"er m
home in Tiflis, but not for long, for “one fine morning she was ac who L
Land
costed in the street by Metrovich,” who now “declining artistically,
was forced to accept an engagement at Tiflis. He asserted his con F
jugal rights, and “as a result of the scandal, Madame Blavatsk Madai
vanished from Tiflis and the basso with her.” she hi
in 18f
She is next reported from Odessa, where the Count’s famil by th
had gone to live. By this time Madame and her basso must hav he cai
been in low water.
It was then that my versatile cousin opened in succes­
sion an ink factory, a retail shop, and a store of artificial
flowers. In those days she often came to see my mother,
and I visited her store several times.
sent I
“then
kill b
and 1
andri
hotel,
Her commercial ventures proved dismal failures. It was then“kicl
that Metrovich, a “toothless lion,” accepted an engagement to singthe s
at the Italian opera at Cairo, and “the couple set out for Egypt....
Off the African coast their ship was wrecked. . . . vlve
Metrovich [sic] saved his mistress, but was drowned him- have
self. Mme. Blavatsky entered Cairo in a wet skirt, without
a penny to her name.
dive
The Count ends the story of his unconventional cousin thus'advi
“I cannot help feeling that there was something demoniac in thattaai
extraordinary woman.” Memoirs, pp. 4-10. fs 1
\
18
From other sources we learn that Madame opened the Societe
' Spirite in Cairo, where she first met Miss Emma Cutting, a Levantine
y of English extraction, who later married a Frenchman, Coulomb,
f and who with her husband joined Madame Blavatsky and the Theo-
e sophical Society in Bombay.
The Count’s story, known to all their relatives in Russia, makes
unmitigated falsehood and fiction of Madame’s romantic account of
her meeting in Hyde Park, at the age of twenty, a turbaned Asiatic,
who later commanded her telepathically to come to the Forbidden
„ Land to sit at his feet and imbibe occult wisdom.
>
n
* Forced to give some details of her connection with Metrovich,
i) Madame told Sinnett that he was indeed a faithful friend ever since
she had stumbled over his apparently dead body in Constantinople
in 1850, he having been stabbed by a Maltese ruffian “who was paid
1) by the Jesuits.” Exiled from Rome—he had insulted the Pope—
ire he came to Tiflis, where her aunt, anxious about Madame’s absence,
sent him to Cairo to try to bring her home. Warned by a Mahatma,
“then bodily in Egypt,” she again saved Metrovich from a trap to
kill him, laid by Maltese “instructed by Roman Catholic monks,”
and hid him in her house. Tired of concealment, he went to Alex­
andria. Madame followed, but too late. She found him in a small
hotel, sick with typhoid with a monk near him, whom she promptly
en “kicked out;” She suspected Metrovich had been poisoned. Such is
the story of the Virgin to whom Isis imparted ancient Truth.9
Her sister, Madame Jelihovsky, was the first to tell Solovyoff,
vive voce and by letters, of Madame’s past, and to warn him to
have nothing to do with her phenomena.
Despite the fact that General Blavatsky was still alive and not
divorced, H.P.B. called herself a “widow,” received the amorous
18’
• advances of a young Armenian merchant, reputed to be rich, and
lat| married him on April 3, 1875, in Philadelphia. She gave her age
I as thirty-six, whereas she was forty-three. She told Olcott that she
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
had been informed occultly that their lives were magically ink*
twined. Soon it happened that the new “husband” was not only r„, w*ys
wealthy, but was on the brink of bankruptcy. So Madame left hirr,' ^ er$c
and on May 25, 1878, Betanelly divorced her on account of deser
tion. She “explained” this marriage to Solovyoff years later, b» 1
saying that the black wizard, her enemy, had taken possession oi
her body.
He talked with my tongue, and I knew nothing about
it I was almost as old and ugly as as I am now, but you see
there are different kinds of ugliness in the world, so a hand­
some Armenian fell in love with me. He suddenly appeared
in my house, and began to treat me as a husband would wher
treat a wife. I ordered him off, but he does not go, declares
I am his wife and that he has just been legally married to
me, married before witnesses. I turn to Olcott; imagine
my horror when he confirms it. He was a witness at the And
wedding and signed the Register: So you can imagine how Solo
much money it cost me to get rid of this Armenian.10
The account of this marriage given by Olcott is not reliable.
The late Dr. J. N. Farquhar of Manchester University asked an
American friend to search the public records in Philadelphia and
copy the details of Madame’s third bigamous marriage.11 not
‘virj
THE VIRGIN MYTH
The Paris Theosophists had heard in 1885 that Madame had
been chosen out of countless millions by the Masters of Wisdom tcwjtl
reveal occult knowledge which would replace the effete religion*ogr
of the time; that she had ascended high on the ladder of perfectiotOp
and was therefore privileged to unveil Isis. They believed, but wetfMa
bewildered. Was not Madame a widow? Would Madame explain-stai
. Ro
At Wurzburg, in Bavaria, she “explained” that though marrieo^
to General Blavatsky (her bigamies were not yet known), though
malicious stories were told about her by her enemies, she had aU
20
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
:ex\
not
im,
er.
by
of
le.
an
id
ways remained a spotless virgin. M. K. Neffe, the compiler of
.Personal Memoirs of H. P. Blavatsky (1937), begins chapter XXII:
S. V. Solovyoff: This is how it came; she had wished
to save the honour of a friend, and had adopted the child
of this friend as her own. She never parted from him; she
educated him herself and called him her son in the face of
the world. Now he is dead.
The impression sought to be conveyed—and since Solovyoff’s
book is long out of print and “scarce”—the impression that will be
conveyed, is that he believed Madame to be speaking the truth,
whereas his introductory sentence reads:
With an art which Sarah Bernhardt might envy, she
confessed the secret of her life. . . .
And immediately after the sentence quoted by the Adyar archivist
Solovyoff continues:
I cannot say I believed her, but her acting was so good
that I was not at the time in a position to guarantee the
entire falsehood of the story.12
Mme. Jelihosky, H.P.B.’s sister, anxious that Solovyoff should
not expose Madame, told him that “she had one folly: that idea of
‘virginity* has stirred up all this mud.*’
From Wurzburg, on November 3, 1885, Madame Blavatsky,
then in her fifty-fourth year, weighed down with infirmities and
with some 240 pounds of unhealthy flesh, sent to Sinnett, her bi­
ographer and credulous friend, a certificate from one Dr. Leon
Oppenheim to prove her virginity. But no one who has read
Madame’s undisputed letters to Aksakoff and Solovyoff and the
statement of Baroness Meyendorff, recorded by C. E. Bechhofer
Roberts, can seriously believe that Madame H. P. Blavatsky re­
tained the essential physical qualifications for unveiling Isis, on
which are based her Mahatmic revelations.
21
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
WHOSE CHILD?
The child? I better be hanged than mention it. , . .
I’ve done too much towards proving and swearing it was
mine and have overdone the thing. The doctor’s certificate
will go for nothing! There is Baron Meyendorff and all
Russian aristocracy that would rise up against me, if in the
course of contradictions the Baron’s name should be men­
tioned.13
But Madame had to satisfy Sinnett and others about Metrovicli con
and the child, although her story was not to appear in Incidents, '9
and this is what she wrote:
I knew the man in 1850, stumbled upon his apparently
dead body. . . . Next found him in Florence singing opera
with his wife. Next found him again in Tiflis in 1861.
Again with his wife. My relations and the Witte’s knew
him. Then when I took the poor child to Bologna, I met C
or
him again in Italy. He did all he could for me, more than
a brother. Then the child dies and as it had no papers or
documents, he buried it, the aristocratic Baron’s child,
under his, MetrovicKs name . . . in a small town in southern
Russia in 1867.14
But fact is stranger than fiction. The “aristocratic Baron” w
as
Baron Nicholas Meyendorff, a friend of Home’s (the American
medium) and an ardent spiritualist. To him Home refers when h
t
writes of his meeting H.P.B. in Paris (1858):
A young gentleman who has ever since been a brother
to me. He did not follow my advice. He was at the time
her lover. s£
Mr. Roberts takes up the tale: ar
His sister-in-law, Baroness Meyendorff, has provided lh
me with certain information about his connection with
H.P.B. According to the Baroness, he fell under H.P.B.’s
influence after her return to Russia in 1858, and began a fc
liaison with her. She bore him a son, whom she assured w
the Baron was his. He and his brother doubted this assur- u]
ance—presumably suspecting Metrovich’s paternity—but
they undertook to provide for the child, who was a hunch-
i
22
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
back. (One recognizes here the origin of the hunchback
“invisible playmate” of later accounts of her childhood.)
H.P.B. took the child to Italy, where he died. Photographs
of the mother and child survived in the Meyendorff’s home
in Esthonia, until this was recently destroyed by the Bol­
shevists.15
Having got an assurance from Aksakoff that he would be silent
ich concerning her past, she tells him, with a view to translation, what
Us, is happening:
Generally speaking, I play a great part in Olcott’s
letters, as all the seven spirits which appeared to me at the
Farm in Vermont formed a grand triumph for the cause of
Spiritualism.
On one occasion the spirits fetched from her father’s grave and
corpse his buckle and medals. A spirit spoke to her thus:
I bring to you, Helen Blavatsky, the badge of honour,
received by your father for the war of 1812. We took this
medal through the influence of your uncle, who appeared
to you this night, from your father s grave at Stavropol, and
bring it to you as a remembrance of us in whom you be-
-ag lieve and have faith.
an Of this Mme. Blavatsky says:
he I know this medal, I have seen it on my father, and 1 ;
know that together with his other decorations it was buried
with him. It is drawn in the Graphic and I have got it.16
These phenomena drew curious and credulous crowds to the
seances: the mysterious Russian “Countess” was much in the news
and before the public eye; her purse was replenished; life was worth
living if only no one knew about her past.
After the “Katie King exposure” Madame could get no hearing
for that medium in the spiritualistic Press. She compared herself
with Olcott “sitting on heaps of People from the Other World [his
unsaleable book] like Marius on the ruins of Carthage, and thinking
bitter things.”
1
23
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
Truly, things looked desperate for both the “Countess” and ti
Colonel. But they had courage. They started the Miracle Club, b
no one would pay for their “miracles.” Thus in July, 1875, M
adam
,
records how she is living from hand to mouth: “Here you see
trouble, tomorrow there will be nothing to eat. Something quite om
of the way must be invented.” (Italics ours.) She tried Chicago ay
Boston, but no “business” resulted.
*The Masters and the Path, p.51 (1925).
2Incidents In The Life of Madame H. P. Blavatsky.
3Letters of H. P. Blavatsky to A. P. Sinnett.
4N. Y. Graphic (Nov. 13, 1874).
5NOTE: Madame’s letters to this distinguished Russian litterateur ran fro*
October, 1874, to November, 1877, and there are a few from 1879.
Letters written by Mme. Blavatsky to V. S. Solovyoff, the author of t
Modern Priestess of Isis, ran from May, 1884, to the spring of 1886. Of thes
letters Professor Sidgwick writes: “The authenticity of these letters has in n
i
case been impugned, and in the case of Confession (chap. XXII in ALPJ.) h
a
been explicitly admitted by Mme. Jelihovsky, Mme. Blavatsky’s sister.” T
l*
learned professor ends a prefatory note to A Modern Priestess of Isis with th ]
remark: “It is not likely that any book will be written throwing more light a
its (the Theosophical Society) origin than A Modern Priestess of Isis.” ^
have not heard of any such book.
6A Modern Priestess of Isis (M .PJ.) p.210 (1894).
7NOTE: Most Theosophical writers pass over this passage in silence, but M
i
G. Butt tries a little whitewash, which merely shows up more clearly the ok
blotches of H.P.B.’s character. “ . . . While the question of personal purity
is of paramount importance in a religious teacher, it must not be forgotten that
rightly or wrongly, public opinion on these questions has changed enormously
in the last decades. . . . Large numbers of people today would probably sym
pathize with Mme. Blavatsky rather than condemn her for daring to “ru
i
amuck against Society and the established proprieties.”—Madame Blavatskj
1925, chap. III.
m .P.L, p.179. i
9The Letters of H. P. Blavatsky to A. P. Sinnett, London 1925, edited by T. A e
Baker (Nos. 60 and 70).
im P .L , p. 165. 1
11See Modern Religious Movements in India, pp.221-2 (1918). {
12MP.L, pp.140-1.
12Letters of H. P. Blavatsky to A. P. Sinnett, pp.151-4.
u Ibid., pp.143-6.
15JAe Mysterious Madame”, pp.33-4 (1931) i
™MPJ., pp.232-4. ' ,
CHAPTER II
How Mme. B. abandoned spiritualism and found­
ed the Theosophical Society; how Home, the celebra­
ted medium, exposed her trickery; how she wrote
Isis Unveiled inspired by “The Mahatmas”, and what
Professor Max Muller and other oriental scholars
thought of her “sources.”
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Either she [H.P.B.] is a messenger from the Mahatmas
or else she is a fraud. In either case, the Theosophical So­
ciety would have had no existence without her.
— Mrs. Besant: Lucifer, 15th Dec. 1890.
Madame informs her Russian correspondent on September 20.
1875:
Olcott is now organizing the Theosophical Society in
New York. It will be composed of learned occultists and
cabbalists, of philosophes Hermetiques of the nineteenth
century, and of passionate antiquaries and Egyptologists
generally.
We want to make an experimental comparison between
Spiritualism and the magic of the ancients by following
literally the instructions of the old Cabbalas, both Jewish
and Egyptian.1
As yet the Society and its founders knew nothing of Mahatmas,
nor was it indoctrinated with Hinduism and Buddhism. The Theo­
sophical Twins, as Madame began to call Olcott and herself, knew
that after the surfeit of Spiritism, the American credulity-market
could not vend any more “miracles.”
HOME TAKES A HAND
Home, who never liked Madame since their Paris days, now
that she had “deserted the cause,” resolved to get his own back.
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
Olcott, in his People of The Other World, had published a dr
of the medal and clasp which Madame had publicly declared^
been brought to her from her father’s grave by spirits at the Jtoj
Seance. Home set about tracing Madame’s antecedents and *
raveling her spiritualistic phenomena. He published the result
his investigations in Lights and Shadows of Spiritualism, which ^
peared about the same time as Isis Unveiled (October, 1877).
Madame used to declare sententiously: Mediums cannot deceive
m e; I know more about it than they do.” But she did not knowthat
Home knew what the public wanted to know about her past. \
Russia,” wrote Home, “till recently they [honor tokens, medals, etc.]
were without exception returned to the Government.”2 This S
oloy.
yoff confirms.3
It was a brother medium, then, and no imaginary M
ahatm
a
who forced Madame to quit the States. She writes: “It is for t f o J
that I am going forever to India, for very shame and vexation. ltion
want to go where no one will know my name. Home’s malignitjuntj]
has ruined me forever in Europe.”4 A born fighter, an unscrupulous^,
writer with a vitriolic pen, she could not face one who had studiednatu:
her tactics and knew her occult career. But her flight from A
m
erica
is not yet. Fran
H.P.B. had spent two years in the composition of a huge com
-anab
pilation of about 1,270 pages, mostly from unacknowledged, second
hand sources, under the title of Isis Unveiled, A Master Key to th
Mysteries of Ancient and Modern Science and Theology. Nine yean
later she wrote that it was not spirits but living man who can d
raw
before the eyes the picture of any book or MS. wherever existing
who helped her.
Proof of their astral power—the astral light—may be
found in the production of Isis Unveiled. . . . When I wrote
Isis, I wrote it so easily [she tells her sister] that it was 1
certainly no labour. . . . Someone who knows all dictated ;
to me. . . . He allows me to copy what I write from mss.,
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
g
d and even from printed matter that pass before my eyes. . .
y Whence all this knowledge? If I were unknown, no Pub­
lisher or Editor would have ever paid any attention to me.
. . . It is all vanity and fashion.5
Somehow we prefer Max Muller’s opinion:
There is nothing [in /sis] that cannot be traced back
to generally accessible Brahmanic and Buddhistic sources,
only everything is muddled, and misunderstood. If I were
asked what Mme. Blavatsky’s Esoteric Buddhism really is,
t I should say it was Buddhism misunderstood, distorted,
ti caricatured. There is nothing in it beyond what is known
j already, chiefly from books that are now antiquated. The
most ordinary terms are misspelt, misunderstood.6
Though said later to contain the wisdom of her Tibetan Masters
and to be an exposition of Theosophy, Isis does but represent
1 H.P.B.’s unstable mind in 1875*7. It does not teach the doctrine of
1 reincarnation. It misrepresents the Buddhist doctrine of transmigra­
tion. Isis teaches that man is a being of a threefold nature. Not
until she had come to India and learned something of Hindu and
Buddhistic esoteric writings, did she endow him with a sevenfold
nature.7
But let us hear what Mr. William Emmette Coleman8 of San
Francisco, an oriental scholar who spent three years in an exhaustive
analysis of Mme. Blavatsky’s writings, has to say of Isis Unveiled:
In Isis Unveiled, published in 1877, I discovered some
2,000 passages copied from other books without proper
credit. By careful analysis I found that in compiling Isis
about 100 books were used. About 1,400 books are quoted
from and referred to in this work; but, from the 100 books
which its author possessed she copied everything in Isis
taken from and relating to the other 1,300. There are in
Isis about 1,200 quotations and references to books that
were copied at secondhand, from books other than the
originals; and of this number only about 140 are credited,
from which Madame Blavatsky copied at secondhand.
The others are quoted in such a manner as to leave the
s
27
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
reader to think that Mme. Blavatsky had read and utilized
the original works, and had quoted from them at firsthand
the truth being that these originals had evidently never the te
been read by Mme. Blavatsky. . . . The books utilized in Mada
compiling Isis were nearly all current nineteenth century 1
literature. . . .
the K
To “Eliphas Levy,” the apostate Abbe Constant, Madame w
as infan
greatly indebted for much of her “learning.” She met the author *
n tb<
in Paris. Madame quoted from Figuier as from an original wort
“which now lies before me,” but Coleman adds: As every word from
Figuier was copied from Des Moussex’s Magie au Dix-neuviemt
Siecle, pp.451-457, the word lies in the sentence used by her ij
quite d propos. He gives a list of many authors whose words Madame
rifled.9
As a result of Coleman’s criticism, Sinnett’s works were cor­
rected in parts, and references supplied to Isis and The Secret D
on-
trine after Madame’s death. But no attempt had been made to den}
or discredit the facts contained in Coleman’s articles.10
Olcott stated that when Mme. Blavatsky wrote Isis, her library
contained about 100 books, which confirms Coleman’s critical judg-
ment.11 Madame states that the story of the massacre of the inno-^
cents in the Gospel is taken from the Bhagavad Gita.12 3^
4m
It is plain, writes Coleman, that she had never seen when she5^
wrote Isis either the Bhagavad Gita or the Bhavagad Purana but6lV
i
copied from J. Jacollot’s works, “which are full of forgeries and7^
blunders and are worthless productions.13 The Theosophist tellsp^
us that “the quotations in Isis Unveiled are minutely correct.” A
s9M
a matter of fact, there is not a word about a massacre in the10'
Bhagavad Gita. The reference is to the Bhagavad Purana. Now,l2'
according to modern scholars—Max Muller, Professor Weber, Rhys1
3
Davids, and others—the Bhagavad Gita was composed about the1
4
third century of the Christian era, and the Bhagavad Purana about1
5
28
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
the tenth century of the same era, which knocks the bottom out of
Madame’s lying statement.
Professor Hopkins of Yale University, connects the worship of
the Krishna child and his divine mother holding to her breast the
as infant deity with the worship of the Virgin and the Madonna Lactans,
in these words:
rk So decided is the alteration and so direct is the
m connection between the later phase of Krishnaism and the
Christianity of the early centuries of our era, that it is no
expression of extravagant fancy but a sober historical state-
18 ment to say that in all probability the Hindus, in this cult
ie of the Madonna and Child, have in reality, though unwit­
tingly, been worshiping the Christ-Child for fully a thou­
sand years.14 And Prof. R. G. Bhandaskar is of the same
- opinion.15
c-
»y
•y
y.
3. W.P.7., p.256.
2Lights and Shadows of Spiritualism, p.273 (second ed.).
8M.PJ., p.266.
4Ibid., p.278
5A. P. Sinnett, Incidents in The Life of H. P. Blavatsky, pp.100, 205-6.
it 6Nineteenth Century, p.775 (1893).
d 7The Key to Theosophy and The Secret Doctrine.
8Member of the American Orient Society, the Royal Asiatic Society, the G. B.
Pali Text Society, etc.
s m .P.L, App. C.
e 10See Proceedings, Vol.IX.
, 11See Olcott’s OldDiary Leaves, I, 264.
’ 12Isis, p.l99.
B
' t(
13Religious Philosophy Journal (September, 1889).
“ 14India Old and \New, p.167.
t 15Indian Thought Past and Present, chap. XI (1913).
k
29
CHAPTER III
How the “ Theosophical Twins” Mme. B. and Col- Dari
onel Olcott, introduced the Theosophical Society into
India, their joum eyings and conversion “to the
cause” ; how Mme. B. produced phenomena (mira-
cles) which were proved to be fraudulent. of
wea
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY IN INDIA— BOMBAY riei
her
Forced to leave America, the “Theosophical Twins” reached Bom
bay about the middle of February, 1879. They were greeted by mem ^ jj
bers of the Arya Samaj, garlanded and festooned, lavishly entei so .
tained, and later handed a bill for the expenses of their own recep q C(
tion! Their ardor somewhat cooled, they speedily moved to less ex
pensive quarters in Girgaum Back Road, in the native part of tb
city, where they lived for two years. Despite their American pass
ports, the police followed them about. For some time they founttim
their ever-ready pens their surest weapons in keeping the wolf froithe
the door, Olcott sending his hopeful screeds to the States anclow
Madame, hers to Russian journals. In 1880 the Coulombs, stranded™
in Ceylon, communicated with Madame, were invited to Bombay to
join up with her, Mme. Coulomb as housekeeper and Coulomb asa g
handyman—he was good at carpentry. Before long, Mme. Coulomlcai
was directed by H.P.B. to drop letters through the ceiling cloth i)0cc
the ColoneFs room and do other occult things. Mi
He
In May, “the Twins” visited Ceylon and were formally ma&he]
Buddhists. Olcott lectured against Christianity, and after two montbwil
among the coconuts and check-books of the hospitable island the]tw
<
returned to Bombay, where they found the Arya Samajists more thai
suspicious of them and their aims. A few months later the Samajist
denounced them as ignorant frauds and adventurers.
30
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
About this time a valuable recruit joined them in the person of
Damodar, a consumptive youth belonging to a wealthy Hindu family
in Bombay.
Olcott and Madame were invited to pay a visit to Mr. A. P.
Sinnett, the editor of The Pioneer at Allahabad. They came, but
Madame, devoid of certain “properties,” did very little in the way
of phenomena. Later they were his guests at Simla for the hot
weather. The whole station was agog with curiosity and social bar­
riers were quietly pushed aside by those eager to witness some of
her marvels.
Madame obliged by getting the Mahatmas to ring the occult call-
bell, to drop flowers from the ceiling, to supply missing cups, and
*
:er so forth. These alleged marvels are fully described in Sinnett’s The
eP” Occult World and Esoteric Buddhism.
ex-
the THE BROOCH INCIDENT
ISS' The Brooch phenomenon has been used by Theosophists con-
mc tinuously as proof positive of Mme. Blavatsky’s occult powers and
om the benign interest taken by the Masters in the affairs of their fol-
no lowers, in spite of the fact that it has been fully exposed as sheer
[ed trickery.
The circumstances were as follows: At Simla, Mr. A. 0. Hume,
as a government official and President of the newly formed Theosophi-
cal Society at Simla, gave a dinner at which an example of Madame’s
1
1 occult power was eagerly awaited. Quite casually, Madame asked
Mrs. Hume if there was anything she particularly wished to have.
Her hostess described a certain brooch which her mother had given
her, but which she gave to someone else, who had in turn parted
with it. Madame took a coin from her watch chain, wrapped it in
e) two cigarette papers and hid it in her dress. Sinnett narrates:
At the close of dinner, she said to Mr. Hume that the
paper in which the coin had been wrapped was gone. A
31
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
little later in the drawing room, she said that the brooch
would not be brought into the house, but that it must be
looked for in the garden; and then as the party went out
accompanying her, she said she had clairvoyantly seen the
brooch fall into a star-shaped bed of flowers. Mr. Hume
led the way to such a bed in a distant part of the garden.
A prolonged and careful search was made with lanterns,
and eventually a small paper packet, consisting of two
cigarette papers was found among the leaves by Mrs. Sin-
nett. This, being opened on the spot, they found to con­
tain a brooch exactly corresponding to the previous de­
scription, and which Mrs. Hume identified as that which
she had originally lost. None of the party, except Mr. and
Mrs. Hume, had ever seen or heard of the brooch. . . .
numbe:
searchi
Bi
w:
m
tr
th
ti
w
ii
h
B
The dinner party of nine signed a paper setting forth the m
, e1
velous incident. As Theosophists, the Humes accepted the Pi B
nomenon as genuine and to be expected.
When Mr. Horm uaji Seervai, a Bombay jeweler, read the *
,
count of the brooch “miracle” in the papers, he at once realh v
from the description of the brooch that it was the identical one 1
had repaired for Madame Blavatsky. Mr. Hodgson learned this fa c
from the jeweler himself. Later, Mr. Hume himself publicly a *
knowledged that the brooch phenomenon was a clever piece of w
e
planned fraud. But the Theosophical Society, whose motto, lil j
Madame’s, is “There is no religion higher than Truth,” still publishecen
this fraud as proof of occult M ahatmic agency.17 f a
y - . Jase<
Despite Sinnett’s assurance18— “I now most unquestionalj0(^
affirm that I shall in no case alter one syllable of the passages actual
quoted from the M aster’s letters”— Hodgson discovered that he b
corrected much bad spelling, awkward phrases, underlining, punctest
ation, etc., such as occur again and again in the Blavatsky-Coulo^tei
letters.19 iosi
id
No wonder Madame should tell Solovyoff that Sinnett “
splendid at editing.” When Hodgson came into possession o ff7
32
ch
be
it,
tie
tie
n.
is,
ro
n-
n-
e-
:h
d
Pit
le a
t
alize
ne 1
s fat
y at
wel
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
number of Mahatma letters, he lent them to Coleman, who, after a
searching examination, wrote:
I find in them [the Mahatma letter in Esoteric
Bhuddism] overwhelming evidence that all of them were
written by Madame Blavatsky. . . . In these letters are a
number of Extracts from Bhuddist books, alleged to be
translations from the originals by the Mahatmic writers
themselves. . . . I have traced to their sources each quota­
tion from the Bhuddist Scriptures in the letter, and they
were all copies from current English translations, includ­
ing even the notes and explanations of the English trans­
lators. They were principally copies from Beal’s Catena of
Bhuddist Scriptures from the Chinese. . . . I have traced
every Bhuddistic idea in these letters and in Esoteric
Bhuddism, and every Bhuddistic term such as Devachan,
Avitchi, etc., to the books whence Helena Petrovna Blavat­
sky derived them. . . . The writer of those letters was an ig­
noramus in Sanskrit and Tibetan. . . . Estoteric Bhuddism,
like all of Madame Blavatsky’s works, was based upon
wholesale plagiarism and ignorance. . . . The Koot Hoomi
letter to Hume and Sinnett contained garbled and spurious
quotations from Bhuddist sacred books, manufactured by
the writer to embody her own peculiar ideas, under the
fictitious guise of genuine Bhuddism.20
' An account of the manner in which the K.H. letter to Sinnett,
lishi received at Headquarters, Bombay, really arrived there—by means
of a trap fixed over a slot, or through slits in the ceiling, and re-
,, leased by Coulomb at an arranged signal by Madame—is given by
13 ■Hodgson in his Report.21
uall
ha As to the moonlight apparitions of Mahatmas at the Crow’s
net' Nest, Bombay, and at Headquarters, Adyar, Hodgson considers,
[om after close investigation of both premises and careful questioning of
those concerned, that a confederate in disguise is generally an easy
u and sufficient explanation of them, and the Coulombs testified that
they had impersonated the Great Ones several times in both places.
i
41
33
BLAVATSKY, BESANT A N D CO.
Wm
Indeed the Coulombs gave a convincing demonstration
Hodgson. ^
But let us hear Mrs. Besant: “If human evidence can eve»
stantiate a fact, the appearance (and therefore the existen^'ze“
the Masters is placed beyond the possibility of doubt.”22 h^Pann
from the lady for whom the evidences of Christianity were
strong enough! >
f d<
istil
Sinnett’s The Occult World (1881) and Esoteric Bhufoi T
(1883) are both based on alleged Mahatmic letters received thjt
H.P.B. by himself and Hume. But a long passage in The fiL. .
World, first edition (June, 1881), was quickly detected to haven
deliberately plagiarized from a lecture delivered by H. K. Kid^wa^
New York, and published in The Banner of Light, August, I8
jjrrap
The Mahatmic effusion was dated only two months later. J^e
F r o m K id d l e ’s L e c t u r e , A u g ., 1880
Ideas rule the world; and as man’s minds receive new
ideas, laying aside the old and the effete, the world ad-.
vances. Society rests upon them; mighty revolutions181
crumble before their onward march. It is just as impossible •
nai
to resist their influx as to stay the progress of the tide, etc.ie
Mahatmic L e t t e r , D e c . 10th, 1880 lal
Ideas rule the w orld; and as man’s minds receive new
ideas, laying aside the old and effete, the world will ad-1e
vance, mighty revolutions will spring up from them, creeds tt(
and even powers will crumble before their irresistible1 1
force. It will be just as impossible to resist their influence
when the time comes as to stay the progress of the tide, etc. Cl
When confronted with the extract from The Banner of Li?c
the Mahatma, Koot Hoomi, explained, through Madame of coil?1
I was physically very tired by a ride of forty-eight K
hours consecutively and half asleep. . . . When I awoke, 1 1
found it [the letter] had already been sent off. . . . I had
never heard of his [Kettle’s] existence. . . .
34
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
* b
%
;ve* S
,
Jnce)
And «
vere .
huddi
thron
* 0C
C
ive b
,
iddle
1880
‘r
And H.P.B. wrote to Sinnett in her ,own name: “K. H. Plagiar­
ized from Kiddle. Ye gods and little fishes! . . . plagiarized from the
Banner of Light, that sweet spirits’ slopbasin—the asses.”
On all this the Committee of the S.P.R. remarks: “The proof
of deliberate plagiarism, aggravated by a fictitious defence, is irre­
sistible.”23 The plagiarized passage was omitted from later editions
of The Occult World, but without a word of explanation.
It is interesting to note that when Madame was present, the
Mahatma letters to Sinnett would be found on his desk, or enclosed
in other letters, or dropped from the ceiling; but when she was
away, the Master did not disdain to use the ordinary post and tele­
graph services. Sinnett declared that “the inherent evidence of the
style was enough to make the suggestion that she might have written
them a mere absurdity.”
With the advance of years, however, a modicum of common
6W , f- " %
sense returned to the credulous ex-editor, and he modified somewhat
' his earlier opinion: “The letters were not, in the beginning, what I
)]e imagined [a correct word!] them to be—letters actually written by
tc. the Masters.” Though inspired by K.H., they were for the most part
“dictations of a competent clairaudient amanuensis, and Mme.
Blavatsky was generally the amanuensis in question.” It is also of
_
i~ interest to note that after Mohini joined Madame’s staff, the Masters’
js letters began to deal more exclusively with Hindu mystic philosophy
[e in which Sinnett was anxious to be instructed.
Most of the letters were written on a peculiar sort of hand-made
rice paper, a quantity of which Olcott assured Theosophists later he
Lit had brought from Kashmir. H.P.B. used to carry some of this paper
)U3 about with her. It was some of this rice paper that Olcott accused
t Judge of abstracting from H.P.B.’s rooms in London after her death
[ on which to forge Mahatmic letters in his own interest.
[ t 240n the whole, then (writes Hodgson), I think I am
justified in saying that the phenomena relied on by Mr.
\
r
35
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
Sinnett in The Occult W orld can be accounted for much
more satisfactorily than can the performances of any or.
dinary professional conjuror by the uninitiated observer
however acute; that the additional details I have been able
to furnish in connection with some of the incidents Mr.
Sinnett has recorded, clearly show that he has not been in a
the habit of exercising due caution for the exclusion of a
trickery; and that he has not proceeded in accordance with
those “scientific modes of investigation” which he expressly
declared25 he regarded as necessary for the task he at­
tempted. h
a
]
from
some
palmi
many
ago,
vited
ureas
16The Occult World, pp.45-9.
17See The Occult World, pp.66-67; Proceedings, Society for Psychical Rese)rar
(S.P.R.) Vol. IX, p.267; Sinnett’s silence in his critique on Hodgson’s Reorr
concerning the brooch is significant; Religious Movements in India, pp.22!
18The Occult World, p.100 (first ed.); p.69 (third ed.); and p.85 (eighth e
19The Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnett (1923), No. 130, of which only «
formed the basis of The Occult World with its astonishing occult revelaU
“Sinnetf/considered himself at liberty to make about fifty literal a/*1
1
tions, seventy-five alterations of style in type (capitals, italics, two huniar
punctuations, thirty significant and obvious).” •
20M.PJ., App. C, pp.363-4. nC
21Proceedings, III, 278, 305. n*
22H. P. Blavatsky and the Masters of Wisdom, pp.10-12 (1907). ,
23Proceedings, Vol. Ill, 297. il
24Proceedings, Vol. IX, p.156.
25The Occult World, p.35.
36
CHAPTER IV
ch
>r-
>r,
>le
[r.
in
of
th
ly
it-
Setting up the Theosophical Society headquarters
at the Adyar, Madras; the increase of phenomena
and converts; how the London Society for Psychi­
cal Research (S.P.R.) sent out an agent (Hodgson)
to investigate; how Mme. B’s accomplices M. and
Mme. Coulomb abandoned the Theosophical Society
and published incriminating correspondence.
PHENOMENA: ADYAR, MADRAS
In December, 1880, the headquarters of T. S. were transferred
from Bombay to a delightful suburb of Madras. The property, now
some 260 acres, is dotted with bungalows where, amid graceful
palms and greenery of every description, reside Theosophists from
many countries. Taking the air one late afternoon, now many years
ago, the writer happened on Mrs. Annie Besant, who smilingly in­
vited him to visit headquarters and view the oriental library with its
treasure of palm-leaf manuscripts.
With Mme. Blavatsky came the Coulombs—the husband, as li-
brarian and general manager of the property, the wife, as assistant
R
ej corresponding secretary and housekeeper.
!29
t ei t h e o c c u l t r o o m a n d s h r in e
Mme. Blavatsky occupied the upper story of the main building,
or which at first consisted of one large room, a portion of which was
nd partitioned off as her bedroom. There were two windows at each
end, east and west, and three on the south side. The room was
entered on the north side from a terrace which ran all around. On
the west side an Occult Room was built, one window being converted
into a doorway leading from Madame’s bedroom into the Occult
Room; the other window was bricked up with one layer of bricks,
1
.1
37
38
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
so as to form on the bedroom side a recess of fifteen inches, which
Madame used as a clothes closet for some time. Later, this too was
bricked in with one layer of bricks, leaving a space between; and
a large piece of furniture was placed against it on the bedroom
side. The Shrine, a wooden cabinet three or four feet square and
one foot deep, hung against the one brick thick partition on the
Occult Room side. A space in front of the Shrine was curtained off
so as to form an inner room. On occasion the doors of the Shrine
would be opened to allow members to gaze on the alleged portrait
of Mahatma Koot Hoomi. Before the Shrine incense was burned,
and in it petitions were placed. Later, the doors being again opened,
written replies would be found purporting to come directly from the
Mahatma K. H.
Owing to the phenomena at the Shrine, membership increased,
and the fame of the Theosophical Society spread abroad.
In May, 1884, the London Society for Psychical Research
(S.P.R.) appointed a committee to take evidence of alleged psychic
phenomena. Mme. Blavatsky, Olcott, and Mohini, who left Bombay
on February 21, 1884, gave evidence in London.
Madame, while in London, did not forget to distribute her
favors to friends in the form of K.H, letters, but reminded them
through the same medium that when she went, her aura would de­
part too, and, therefore, they need expect no more K.H. letters—a
prudent foresight.
At Adyar a committee of seven, which included Coulomb by
Madame’s special appointment, was formed to look after the affairs
of the Society during the absence of Madame and Olcott. The
Coulombs were left in sole charge of her rooms; Damodar, the Hindu
Secretary, had the keys of the Occult Room and the Shrine.1 Soon
a quarrel took place between the committee members and the
Coulombs, who refused to allow a committee meeting to be held
in H.P«B.’s room. There were also “high words” over household ex-
39
BLAVATSKY, BESANT A N D CO.
penses. Hints about tricks and sliding doors and faked phen
were thrown out by M adam e Coulomb, and a threat of start?
revelations if bothered any further. Of all this H.P.B. was duly1
formed by letters from both sides. M eantim e, the committee decjj
to impeach the Coulombs in an inform al m anner, and expel tk
from headquarters. But before they could act, Damodar placed
fore them a letter which he said had just been brought from \
by a chela in his astral body. It ra n :
M adame Coulomb is a m edium , and as such irrespon- j
sible for m any things she m ay say or do. At the same (
time she is kind and charitable. One m ust know how to g
act towards her to m ake her a very good friend. It is my
wish, therefore, that she shall continue in charge of the
household business. . . . A good deal of reform is necessary, c
and can be m ade rath er w ith the help than the antagonism t
of Madame Coulom b. . . . Show this letter to Madame j
Coulomb so that she m ay cooperate w ith you. (
W hy the M ahatma did not com m unicate directly with Dr. H
i
m ann may have surprised the com m ittee, but the result of the c
c
m unication was an arm istice, and M r. Lane Fox, Damodar, i
Madame Coulomb went to the N ilgiri hills for a holiday.
o
s
C
A
r
Replies from O lcott and H .P.B ., dated A pril 1, and 2, (18&
reached M adras on the 24th and, redirected, reached the addres
at Ootacamund on the 26th. On th at very date, D am odar produt
and forwarded to M adras a M ahatm a K .H . letter, addressed to 1 e
Hartmann. Here is an extract: 0
For some time already that woman had opened com­
munication— a regular diplomatic pourparlers— with the n
enemies of the cause, certain padres. She hopes for
more than 2,000 rupees from them if she helps them ruin- i
ing or at least injuring the Society by injuring the reputa­
tion of the founders. . . ,2 “
They . . . are ready to lay out a good sum for the ruin 8
of the Society they hate. Moreover, the Jesuits of India are ™
in direct understanding with those of London and P aris.. ..
40
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
Keep all said above in strict confidence. . . . Let her not
suspect you. . . . Be prudent, yet act without delay.3
On the outside of the letter Damador was directed to give this
K.H. letter to Dr. Hartmann without delay. On the inside Dr. Hart­
mann was directed to show the letter to Mr. Lane Fox—the om­
niscient K.H. (alias H.P.B.), not knowing of course that Damodar
and Lane Fox were at Ooty, on the Nilgiri Hills, and not at Adyar,
Madras. Some six weeks earlier the same K.H. affirmed that Madame
Coulomb is kind and charitable and must not be estranged but
should be won to cooperate.
On their return from the hills to the Adyar, the Coulombs were
deprived of the keys (May 18, 1884) and dismissed. They refused
to leave. Lane Fox, a wealthy member of the committee, in whom
Madame was deeply interested, struck a native policeman whom
Coulomb called in, and was fined 250 rupees (about $91.) for the
offence. The public scented a first-class scandal. On inspection,
sliding doors and panels were discovered, but the committee accused
Coulomb of having made them, which was true; but only after
Madame’s departure and for the purpose of bringing her into dis­
repute, which was false.
THE BLAVATSKY-COULOMB LETTERS
On August 9th, Mme. Coulomb placed in the hands of the
editor of The Christian College Magazine (C.C.M.), Madras, the
organ of the Scotch Kirk missionaries, some seventy letters with a
view to exposing the fraudulent nature of the Theosophical “phe­
nomena” then being freely discussed.
The editor submitted the letters to the most skilled opinion at
hand and to certain bank managers in Madras, who pronounced
them genuine. These letters contained many references to leading
government officials and Hindus, with details of what happened
when Madame B. was staying with them, or when she met them all
BLAVATSKY, BESANT A N D CO.
over India.4 But as they also contained numerous instruct!
the production of “phenom ena,” it was decided to publish a se?*1
with a view to exposing the fraud of Madame Blavatsky a ij (
accomplices. The Coulombs confessed unreservedly that they |
been her accomplices. “These letters if genuine, unquestionably! (
plicated Madame Blavatsky in a conspiracy to produce marvel). 1
phenomena fraudulently.”— Committee, S.P.R. t
Most of the letters were in French, but, omitting passages \ •
ing with the private affairs of Europeans and Indians, the e|
of the C.C.M. published in parallel colum ns the text of a select
and an English translation with necessary commentary. I
The letters in our possession [wrote the editor of the
C.C.M.] are all m arked with the im press of a single char­
acter—that of a woman, clever, witty, and passionate;
ready of speech and fertile in resource, now full of kind­
ness, now of fury and contem pt. . . . To have drawn a
character like the M adame Blavatsky of our letters, so full
of daring contradictions, yet possessed of such breathing
life and consistency, would be a literary achievement
worthy of our greatest dram atist.0 .
While the Anglo-Indian press regarded the exposure as genu
the Theosophical Society called it a conspiracy on the part of
Protestant missionaries. Judge, the Am erican vice-president, t
in Europe, was at once sent out to M adras by the president, O
lt
and arrived in May or June, 1884.
In September, Dr. H artm ann issued A R eport of Observed
Made During Nine M onths at H eadquarters,6 in which he del
the genuineness of the letters published in the C.C.M .; charged
missionaries with form ing a conspiracy against the Theosopb
Society; threatened to unm ask the conspiracy in a court of 1
* ‘
and, while confessing to the existence at H eadquarters of ‘‘slid
panels, trap doors, holes in the walls, etc., such as could be u
for the production of occult phenom ena,” asserted that Monsi
42
j
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
Coulomb made them all after M adame Blavatsky’s departure for
Europe on February 21, 1884. For this statem ent no proof what­
ever was given. Indeed, the pam phlet containing it was later w ith­
drawn, as being inaccurate and unauthorized. As D am odar had the
keys of the Shrine and the Occult Room after M adam e’s departure,
and the keys of Madame’s room s after M ay 17th, the Coulombs
could not have had access to the Occult Room in order to fix panels
in the back of the Shrine.
In a written statement given to Hodgson in M arch, 1885, Dr.
Hartmann says:
Of the existence of a m ovable back to the Shrine and
the filling in of the aperture in the wall, no one of us knew
anything . . . because to m ake a thorough exam ination, it
would have been necessary to take the shrine down, and
we were prevented from doing this by the superstitious
awe with which Mr. D am odar regarded the Shrine, and
who looked upon every European who dared touch or
handle “the Sacred Shrine” as a desecration.7
But when the exam ination was m ade on Septem ber 20, 1884,
among others by Hartm ann, Judge and “A nanda” :
It was found that the back of the Shrine could be re­
moved . . . that an aperture had existed which had been
plastered up. . . . I m ust confess [continued Dr. H artm ann]
that it seemed to me that if at that inopportune m om ent
this new discovery . . . would have been m ade public, it
would have had a bad effect on the public m ind. . . . A
gentleman who was present and who shared m y opinions
was of the opinion that the Shrine had been too m uch
desecrated [7V.B. not dam aged] to be. of any further use,
and he burned the Shrine in m y presence.8
The “gentleman” referred to was the vice-president, W . Q.
Judge, sent out to “expose” the Coulom b-cum -m issionaries’ plot.
Clearly the burning of the Shrine shows th at H artm ann and
Judge had an inkling of the truth.
43
BLAVATSKY, BESANT a n d CO.
Hartmann, Judge, the T. S. London Lodge (in a ^
Madame Blavatsky (in The Pall Mall Gazette) declared^ ^
case would be taken to the Law Court Indeed, Madan* . ‘ \*
was harrying back to Madras to commence proceeding v ,'* ’ I
missionaries, although at the time she was writing to o, 01
friend, Solovyoff (October, 1884): 1
I am suspected, not only by my enemies, but even fc. a
my own Theosophists. . . . They have all clutched at tb* 1
1
idea with such a delight Olcott and Madame Gethard mi
die rest that I hare not even met with any pity . . . th» 1
[the missionaries] gave die Coulomb woman 10,000 rup^t
as it is now proved, in order to destroy the Society* i
Of course, nothing of the sort had been proved. On the cottt)
in April, 1885, the editor of C.C.M., wrote: “We did not let
letters. They are still Mine. Coulomb’s property. Dr. Hart&
and Mr. Subba Rao have known this since September 27th.
year.” He went on to say that Mme. Coulomb had only been 1
the ordinary rate, the paltry sum of 150 rupees (about $54.|.
On October 7,1884, Madame Blavatsky, then in London, w .
to The Times, stating: * *€f.
The letters purporting to have been written by me arc
certainly not mine. Sentences here and there I recognize. *Ct
taken from old notes of mine on different matters, but they T
CL
are mingled with interpretations that entirely pervert their ^
meaning. With these exceptions, the whole of the letters N
C
T
are a fabrication.10 trea
But to Mme. Coulomb she had written “a masterpiece of fob “so
She exclaimed:
Oh! Madame Coulomb, what have 1 done to you that s*n
you should try to ruin me____By talking and acting as you
do, you will only gain one end, people will only say that ex
you are a fraud. wi
To Coulomb she wrote:
Smce my arrival at Adyar, I have truly and sincerely u
loved her, and since my departure I have thought only of
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
S
buying something in Paris which she needed and of how
I could put you in possession of 2,000 or 3,000 rupees in
order that she might go and reside for the summer at Ooty.
.. . Why do you wish to make the Colonel hate me and set
against you all at Adyar? Why not quietly remain friends
and wait for better days? . • . Why not accept the 2,000
rupees which Lane Fox offered you, and spend the hot
weather at Ooty and the cool months with us as in the past?
. . . Oh! my dear friend, how miserable and foolish is all
this!11
A strange letter, surely, to one who had just accused her of
forgery and fraud.
t
v
1Proceedings, Vol. Ill, pp. 325, 373-4; Report of Observations, p.32.
2N0TE: A photograph of this letter appears on p.248 of Who Wrote The
Mahatma Letters (1937).
' 3Cf. Proceedings, III, 279.
4Cf. Proceedings, III, 204, 224.
5C.C.M., Vol. II, pp.305-6.
6Cf. Proceedings, III, 224.
7Cf. Proceedings, III, 229.
mid., Ill, 225.
W .
NOTE: Mr. A. B. Khun in Theosophy (New York, 1930) says the aim of his
treatise is to present Mme. Blavatsky’s career, “as it is told and believed by The-
osophists, although it is admittedly already partly legendary.” These being his
“sources,” we are not surprised at his writing: “Madame Coulomb bartered her
incriminating material to the missionaries for a considerable sum of money.”—
(p. 178). W. Kingsland, having quoted the letter which Damodar was in­
structed by the Mahatma to hand to Dr. Hartmann to the effect that Mme.
Coulomb “hopes for Rs. 2000” from the missionaries, adds: “that the Coulombs
were paid by the Christian College authorities is acknowledged, though the
exact amount that they received is uncertain.” One is left to infer that this
writer had seen a statement by the Christian College authorities acknowledging
payment, but that the amount paid was not stated.
10Incidents, p.228.
11See C. E. Bechhofer Roberts, The M ysterious Madame, pp. 161-3 (1931).
45
CHAPTER V
More Blavatsky-Coulomb letters for the production
of spurious phenomena; how Hodgson confirms his
investigations; how Mme. B. threatens prosecution,
hut instead of proceeding, flees from India. Extract
from Hodgson’s report.
MORE BLAVATSKY-COULOMB LETTERS
In October, 1884, the C.CJf. published a second batch o
{
Blavatsky-Coulomb letters.
In November the Committee of the Society of Psychical Re. j
search, decided to send to India Mr. Richard Hodgson, B.A., a
Canadian Scholar of St. John’s College, Cambridge, to obtain further
information as to alleged Theosophic phenomena. He arrived in
Madras on December 18, 1884, and left for London on March 26,
1885. One important object of his visit was to ascertain if possible,
by examining the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters and by verifying the
facts implied or stated in them and the explanations of the Cou­
lombs concerning them, whether the letters were genuine or not.1
On December 29th Madame Blavatsky arrived from London. Olcott
bad arrived earlier.
Hodgson accepted an invitation to stay at the Theosophical
Society’s headquarters, Adyar, from December 25th until January
3rd. He made frequent calls there until he left for England in
March, 1885.
Hodgson was directed by his Society to cross-examine some of
the principal-witnesses for phenomena, to examine localities where
phenomena were alleged to have happened, and to verify the state­
ments of the Coulombs. For it is obvious—states the Committee:
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
That no value for the purpose of psychical research
can be attached to phenomena where persons like the Cou­
lombs have been concerned if it can plausibly be shown
that they might themselves have produced them, while at
same time their unsupported assertion that they did not
produce them cannot be taken by itself as evidence.2
In what frame of mind Hodgson began his important investiga­
tions can best be gathered from his Report to the Committee:
Indeed, whatever prepossessions I may have held were
distinctly in favour of Occultism and Madame Blavatsky—
a fact which, I think, is well known to several leading Theo-
sophists. During my three months’ investigations I had
every opportunity of examining the witnesses for the Theo-
sophical phenomena and of comparing in detail the dis­
puted documents with the undoubted handwriting of Ma­
dame Blavatsky.3
Hodgson sent to London an ample selection of the Blavatsky-
Coulomb letters together with undoubted letters of Madame Blavat­
sky, which were submitted by the Committee, S.P.R., for the opinion
of experts in handwriting.
Slowly and methodically Hodgson proceeded with his investi­
gations. He visited Poona and Bombay, the former headquarters,
the Crows’ Nest, where he tested the accuracy of alleged phenomena
and the statements of the Coulombs collected at Madras, who said it
was they who, on several occasions, impersonated Mahatmas and
faked phenomena at Mme. Blavatsky’s request. It was not, therefore,
the Society’s “greatest enemies, thieves and robbers;” it was not only
“the Boys [Hindus] who gave him all the information he needed,”
according to Mme. Blavatsky;4 it was not only “known enemies of
the Theosophical Society,” he “ignoring all evidence tendered by
friends,” according to Mrs. Besant;5 but it was Madame Blavatsky
herself who stated that “she had been unable to discover what had
become of the Shrine,” and who confessed that “it had three sliding
panels in the back that it might be more easily taken to pieces and
47
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
packed.”6 It was Dr. Hartmann,7 President Olcott,8 Damodar,0 ar)i I
Babbajee, these being the chief witnesses “from personal experience” }
for the Tibetan Brotherhood, besides Mme. Blavatsky, who all pro I
duced a very bad impression on the agent of the S.P.R. Both Dam0.1
dar and Babbajee were convicted of falsehoods. Of the latter Hodg. I
son writes that he is “eagerly ready out of gratitude for sheltering I
kindness [being homeless] received from Madame Blavatsky, t01
dispense on her behalf most freely with the truth.”10 Only after re.I
peated questioning did Damodar and Hartmann give a halting acl
count of the Shrine, which they said had been removed into Damo.1
dar’s adjoining room on September 20, 1884, only to disappear I
mysteriously the following morning. They thought that the Coulombs
or the missionaries might have stolen it. We now know (from H
art- j
mann’s written statement of March 13, 1885) that Judge had de­
stroyed the Shrine on September 29, 1884, a fact of which Hartmann
was well aware.11 After this confession of Hartmann, Mr. Hume
proposed that Madame Blavatsky, Damodar, and two other natives
should resign; that the disputed letters should be declared genuine;
that most of the phenomena should be declared fraudulent; and that
Hartmann should withdraw the defense pamphlets. But only the
clause concerning the pamphlets was carried.12
)
)
Had Mr. Khun carefully studied Hodgson’s Report and not re­
lied on what is written by Theosophists, he would hardly have writ­
ten: . . he rendered an entirely ex parte judgment in that he acted
as Judge, accuser, and jury, and gave no hearing to the defense . -•
that he accepted the word of the Coulombs . .
Of Hartmann’s Report (February, 1885), H.P.B. gives a fan­
tastic account:
“They [the T.S. committee] sat three days and nights on th
e
letters and documents, called more than 300 witnesses. They brought
in a verdict entirely acquitting me, and many letters were sho#
to be forgeries of my writing. . . One only of the letters referred
to,®
ah'
D
e
C
0
bj
v
r
d
b
\
i
1
r
I
48
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
to, and only on request, was shown to General Morgan in the pres­
ence of witnesses. In his second Report (February, 1885), Hart­
mann stated that there would be no prosecution of Madame Coulomb
and the missionaries!
Having finished his investigations, Hodgson left for London
about the middle of March, 1885. Judge departed to America, and
Damodar took a journey to the Himalayas, “where subsequent pro­
ceedings interested him no more,” for his frozen body was discovered
by the roadside; he, having dismissed his coolies, set out naked and
without food to reach the Master.
As it was not Mme. Blavatsky who had publicly charged Ma­
dame Coulomb with forgery, but General Morgan, and it was he who
had refused to withdraw the charge, Madame Coulomb set on foot
legal proceedings against him. But at that junction H.P.B.’s doctor
induced Madame Coulomb’s friends to postpone the case, as Madame
Blavatsky, a material witness, was dangerously ill. After several
delays the patient recovered, and on March 25th Madame Cou­
lomb’s solicitor demanded an apology from General Morgan by
April 2nd. The General replied on March 31st, refusing to apologize.
The very next day, April 1st, Olcott “gave Madame Blavatsky per­
mission to leave India;” and she secretly embarked on a French
steamer at Madras the next day, April 2nd, as “Madame Helen and
Maid.” Unquestionably, she fled to escape cross-examination as a
witness in the Coulomb-Morgan case. Had she been able to clear
her character, not all the Theosophic forces in India or alleged Ma­
hatmas in Tibet could have restrained her or sent her out of India.
Two days after her flight, there appeared in the Madras Mail
this note:
The Theosophists:
Colonel Olcott writes on behalf of the General Com­
mittee of the Theosophical Society to say that “as a num­
ber of copies of a pamphlet entitled “Report of the result
of the investigations into the charges brought against Ma-
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
dame Blavatsky,” have been circulated, it is my duty to
state that the issue has not been ordered by the General
Council, nor authorized by the Committee.13
What a fiasco! Hartmann’s Report had been put together
published broadcast only six weeks earlier from headquarters, wh j
Olcott, H.P.B., Judge and other Theosophic lights were living th
ereM
After a thorough survey of all the evidence available, HodgjJ
came to the following conclusions:
1. That the letters in the Blavatsky-Coulomb corres­
pondence were written by Mme. Blavatsky, a fact that was
corroborated by the results of enquiries into the details and
related incidents.
2. That most of the alleged Mahatma Koot Hoomi
letters were written by Mme. Blavatsky, though a few were
probably written by Damodar.
3. That Damodar as well as the Coulombs cooperated
with Mme. Blavatsky in the production of spurious marvels.
4. That Mme. Blavatsky’s evidence for the existence
of Mahatmas is worthless.
5. That Olcott’s evidence is so “fundamentally at
variance with fact” in so many important points that it be­
came impossible to place the slightest value upon his evi­
dence.
I finally had no doubt whatever that the phenomena
connected with the Theosophical Society were part of a
huge fraudulent system worked by Mme. Blavatsky with the
assistance of the Coulombs and several other confederates,
and that not a single genuine phenomenon could be found
among them all.15
]
b
%
Bb
Sb
. tc
a
t!
\
THE HAND-WRITING
It was not the handwriting alone that convinced Hodgson^
Madame and Sinnett would have the public believe—that the Bl^,
sky-Coulomb letters were genuine, but much corroborative evide^
such as the many detailed allusions to Indian civilians—promi^
Hindus and Europeans, and numerous errors in English.
50
Here are a few of the many to be found in Hodgson’s Report,
\ but not in the carefully “edited” The Occult World and Esoteric
H
; Bhuddism.
^ 1. In the K.H. Letters:
your’s, fulfill, dispell, thiefs, quarreling, vanted, pro­
fund, montain, skeptic, direc-tly, una-cquainted, discer­
ning, En-glish;
We mortals never have and never will agree on any
subject entirely.
One who understands tolerably well English.
The best they know how; so more the pity for them.
2. Madame Blavatsky’s undoubted letters:
your’s, expell, thiefs, quarreling, perfec-tly, cha-nged,
retur-ning, Beacon-sfield;
They have never and never will rush into print;
Olcott says you speak very well English; and left to do
the best they know how; So more the pity for those.
Hodgson’s Report contains facsimilies of a number of the
Blavatsky-Coulomb letters and a plan of the Occult Room with its
Shrine.16
But to appreciate fully the force of the evidence which led him
to conclude that the letters and phenomena were fraudulent, the
appendices to his Report should be studied.17 For many, however,
the verdict of the English experts in handwriting, which we subjoin,
will suffice to form a judgm ent:
19, Bedford Row
LONDON, W.C.
M arch 7th, 1885.
In compliance with your instructions I have carefully
examined and com pared several documents you have sub­
mitted, which are contained in two packets.
On placing Mme. Blavatsky’s genuine, or acknowl­
edged, handwriting in juxtaposition [with the doubtful
ones], I really cannot see that there has been any attem pt
to disguise the hand [in the letters]. Every character of
her handwriting m ay be traced throughout. . . . If she in-
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
tended any of them to be in a feigned hand, I can only sav
that the disguise is so flimsy that any expert would not
notice the attempt.
[Signed] Fredk. Geo. Nethercliff,
On a second batch of Blavatsky-Coulomb letters being submit^
to him shortly afterwards, Nethercliff returned them in one pac^
along with the undoubted writings of Mme. Blavatsky sent for co*
parison, with the following remarks:
The whole of the writings contained in this packet t
are by the hand of Mme. Blavatsky, whether acknowledged
to be genuine or otherwise. They vary in the degree of
care with which they are written, but in my opinion there
is no attempt to disguise the hand.
[Signed] F.G.N.18
Yet with all this first-hand and expert evidence before her, M
rs, *
Besant writes: “It has always been a mystery to me how anyone
could read those letters and believe them to have been written b
y
Mme. Blavatsky.”19 But Annie Besant had long before burned th
e
barque of logical reasoning when she landed on the nebulous shore,
of Theosophical credulity.
bef
gtfP
Tb
Sb
jfl‘
a
Bl
of
0
st
C
o:
tl
h
v
7
c
1
MRS. BESANT’S DEFENCE
r j
In her attack on Hodgson’s Report {Time, March, 1891), M
n
, I ,
Besant states correctly that Mr. Hume wrote to the Calcutta State
man (September, 1884) to say that in his opinion Mme. Blavatslq«
“was too shrewd a woman to have ever written to anyone anything
that could convict her of fraud.”20 But on that occasion (1891)
again in 1907, when she published H. P. Blavatsky and the MwW.
of Wisdom,21 and in later editions, Mrs. Besant has designs
omitted to mention that in his Report Hodgson has explicitly sta^
that as a consequence of the evidence which he had placed
Hume the latter was convinced that the letters had actually ^
written by Mme. Blavatsky.22 In his reply to her Time attack b
son repeats this statement.23 Yet Mrs. Besant more than once^
52
\
•1
I
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI CHRISTIAN FRAUD
s
5of
%
tttt|
le
d|
34
,1
)H
$
her readers she had carefully read Hodgson’s Report. The wilful
suppression of this relevant fact (and there are other instances) has
been frequently repeated during the past quarter of a century by
Theosophical writers.
Against the opinion of the English experts, NetherclifE and
Sims (of the British Museum), Mrs. Besant quotes that of the Ger­
man Court Expert, Herr Ernst Schulze, who attested on oath that
a certain K.H. letter submitted to him together with a genuine
Blavatsky letter “has not the remotest resemblance with the letter
of Madame Blavatsky.” But the comparison limps. The Blavatsky-
Coulomb, the K.H. letters, and the genuine letters of Mme. Blavatsky
submitted to the English experts had all been written before the
C.C.M. exposure in Madras, whereas the K.H. letters and the letter
of Mme. Blavatsky submitted to the German Expert were written,
the one in September, 1884, and the other in October, 1885.24 The
latter letter therefore was some twelve months later than the date
when the first batch of Blavatsky-Coulomb letters25 had appeared in
The Christian College Magazine (September, 1884). To be of evi-
dentual value, Hodgson replied, the Blavatsky letter should have
been written before the K.H. letter. He pointed out that while at
Adyar, he could not get a specimen of H.P.B.’s writing except what
she herself offered to write there and then. This he refused to ac-
cept. He appealed to Olcott, who stated that Madame Blavatsky was
in the hands of the Society and should be guided by them.26
f
Mrs. Besant argues for the super-normal nature of Mahatma
|i v B .
letters written in Sanskrit and Mahrathi, etc., because Mme. Blavat-
sky did not know these languages, but she forgets that Madame’s
confederates did. When, however, A. D. Ezekiel prepared a question
for the Mahatma in the Arabic language and in Hebrew characters,
about the interpretation of a specific portion of the Kabbala, the
reply had not the slightest reference to the Kabbala.27
53
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
SPECIMENS OF THE BLAVATSKY-COULOMB LETTERS
In sore need of money to pay for the Adyar premises, her travel,*
ing expenses, and to feed her hungry helpers, H.P.B. paid visits toI
rich Hindus likely to help the cause of Theosophy. At Poona sl^ m
was advised to approach a wealthy relative of her friends, tin I
Ezekiels, who, if interested, might contribute a substantial
But the native gentleman, wanting value for money, wished first to I
witness some convincing phenomenon which would prove the e
x
. 1
istence of Mahatmas. This, Madame, being in strange surrounding >
was unable to furnish. She told him that having mentally asked I
Master, He replied that even if the proof required of the existenceI
of the Masters was given, Mr. Sassoon would not have the m
oral *
courage to join the Society; adding, however, the important rem
ark I
that as she was not quite sure she had heard the astral reply co
r- !
rectly, she had asked Master to confirm it by telegram. Then sh
e
at once wrote to her confederate, Mme. Coulomb, at Adyar:
Now, dear, let us change the programme. Whether
something succeeds or not, I must try. Jacob Sassoon, the
happy proprietor of a score of rupees, is anxious to be­
come a Theosophist. He is ready to give 10,000 rupees to
buy and repair the headquarters; he said to Colonel
[Ezekiel, his cousin, arranged all this], if only he saw a
little phenomenon, got the assurance that the Mahatmas
could hear what was said, or give him some other sign
of their existence (? !!). Well, this letter will reach you
the 26th, Friday. Will you go up to the Shrine and ask
K.H. to send me a telegram that would reach me about 4
or 5 in the afternoon same day, worded thus: “Your con­
versation with Mr. Jacob Sassoon reached Master just
now. Were the latter even to satisfy him, still the doubter
would hardly find the moral courage to connect himself
with the Society—Ramalinga Deb.” If this reaches me on
the 26th, even in the evening, it will still produce a tre­
mendous impression. Address, care of N. Khanadallavalla,
Judge, Poone. Je ferai le reste. Cela coutera quatre ou cinq
roupies. Cela ne fait rien.
Yours truly, [Signed] H.P.B.
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
y
s",
s
*
s
Mine. Coulomb showed Hodgson an official receipt for the tele­
gram sent in the name of Ramalinga. The telegram was sent from
the San Thome Post Office, the nearest to the Theosophical Head­
quarters at Adyar, to Mme. Blavatsky at Poona on October 26th.
It contained the same number of words. Sassoon had left when
the telegram arrived, so Madame missed a possible 10,000 rupees.
Dear M. Coulomb,
I think this is what you ought to do. Try, if you think
it will succeed, to have a larger audience than our own
silly servants only. It is worthwhile, because the saucer
of the Adyar might become as historical as the Simla
cup. . . .
H.P.B.
An account of the “Cup of Simla” may be read in Sinnett’s
The Occult World.
I
My dear Madame Coulomb and Marquis,
Now is the time to come into the open; don’t let us
hide ourselves. The General is going to Madras on business;
he will be there on Monday and will remain two days. He
is president of the Society here [Ooty, Hill Station] and
wishes to see the Shrine. . . . He told me he anticipates
seeing some phenomena. In the first case, beg K.H., whom
you see every day, or Christoforo, to uphold the family
honour. Tell him that a flower will do and that if the pot
de chambre should break under the load of curiosity, it
would be well to replace it there and then—Damn the
others—this one is worth his weight in gold. . . .
This is the time to do something. Turn the General’s
head, and he will do anything for you, especially if you are
with him at the time as Christophe. I send you a possible
request (lit. an “in case of” )—a letter from Mahatma in
case the gentleman should want a reply.
I R f L.M.
In case of (En case):
Can say nothing now—and will let you know at Ooty.
[Signed] K.H.
55
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
Mme. Coulomb explained that these extracts refer to a
saucer which, it was agreed with Mme. Blavatsky, should be \
dentally” broken when the Shrine doors were opened. The pi^4
were to be replaced in the Shrine and a sound saucer of the
pattern substituted through the opening at the back of the S
h
r»
. *
in Mme. Blavatsky’s bedroom. Now it is not disputed that a
phenomenon took place in the presence of General Morgan, j,
deed, the General gave a long account of it in The Theosophisi,^
cember, 1883, which, on the whole, is consistent with Mme. C*
lom b’s account. According to the General, the saucer was lean^ >
against one of the doors inside the Shrine. This position wai ^
tainly an unusual one, and suggests its having been put in fromk
hind. The General suggested, to console the distressed Coulomb
that the broken pieces of the saucer, said by them to have
highly treasured by Mme. Blavatsky, m ight be glued together; a*
Coulomb ostensibly went out to get his glue pot, but in fact slippyJ
into M adam e’s bedroom and replaced the broken pieces by a do
saucer of like pattern. D am odar, who was watching and listenkj
intently in front of the Shrine, suddenly exclaim ed: “There is an&
sage,” and opening the Shrine, took out the cloth in which the pkca>
had been wrapped. To the astonishment of all, he extracted A
t
saucer, whole and entire. A miracle, a M ahatm ic miracle! lit
General, fully convinced of the existence and power of Mahatma
returned to Ootacamund and spread the glad tidings over a
t
Nilghiri H ills. After the Coulomb exposure, however, Hodg#
examined the broken pieces and the whole saucer. He did
he visited the shop in the Broadway, Madras, where Mme. C
o
u
ld
®
1
alleged she had bought the saucers, and found that her stated-
was true and that they had cost two rupees eight annas, on Juh'
1883. The phenomenon happened in August, 1883. Madame^
playfully named the Coulombs M arquis and M arquise. The
L. M , stand for Luna M elanchonica, the name Madame had $
to the opening in the back of the Shrine. %
I
foi
wl
tai
U
t]
c
c
1
(
t
<
I
]
56
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
Ootacamund, 1885.
Dear Marquis,
If only I could have my beloved Christoforo with me
here . . . darling Marquis, I confide to you the destiny of
m y ch ildren —Take care of them and make them work
miracles. Perhaps it would be better to let one fall upon
the head of someone?
H.P.B.
Hide the child after you have read it. (Cachetez l’en-
fant apres Favoir lu.)
M es enfants are apparently meant for K.H. documents. Christo­
foro, according to Mme. Coulomb, meant the mask with draperies
which she used to don when personating Mahatmas— at a safe dis­
tance.28 This agrees with what Solovyoff reports:
Miss X. and Mme. Y [Mme. Jelihovsky, the sister of
Mme. Blavatsky] said to me one day, “Babula is most
amusing. When Helen is busy and we have nothing to do,
we have him in and ask about all sorts of things. He has a
droll way of telling about all that goes on at Adyar.”
Yes, and when I asked him, continued Mme. Y., if he
had seen the Mahatmas, he laughs and says: “I have often
seen them.” “What are they like?” I ask, and he answers:
“They are fine,” he says, “Muslin,” and then he laughs
again.29
The flowers, vases, saucers, and building and repair material
used at Adyar in the production of phenomena were all traced to
their true sources by Hodgson. The receipt books of Faciole and
Co., Broadway, Madras, showed thaf the vases, supposed to have
come as a present from the Master, had in reality been purchased
by Mme. Coulomb, M. Faciole accompanying her to the Chinese
Curio dealer, Hassam and Co. In Hassam’s books Hodgson found
the entry payment by Faciole and Co. shortly after the date on which
Colonel Olcott received the vases as a present from the Mahatma.
In Faeiole’s books was the entry: “Received from Hassam and Co.,
May 25, 1883, One pair Flower vases, 7 rupees; One pair Flower
5 7
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
vases, 6 rupees, sent to Mrs. E. Coulomb.” They had been enters
to her account as housekeeper at Adyar; but on her instructions tb
entry was crossed off, and she paid cash. The very next day C
o
j
Olcott recorded in his Diary, May 26th: “Fine phenomenon. G
o
t
pair of tortoise shell and lacquer vases with flowers in a cabinet *
a moment before empty.” When Hodgson wished to examine th
e
vases, Olcott discovered that they had disappeared. Mme. Blavatsb
of course denied all knowledge of them.
After hearing Hodgson and carefully weighing all the evidence
before them, the Committee of The Society for Psychical Research, t
unanimously arrived at the following conclusions:
L That the letters put forward by Mme. Coulomb
and examined by the Committee and experts are undoubted­
ly written by Mme. Blavatsky, and suffice to prove she has
been engaged in a long-continued combination with other i
persons to produce by ordinary means a series of apparent
marvels for the support of the Theosophical movement.
2. That, in particular, the Shrine at Adyar, through
which letters purporting to come from Mahatmas were re­
ceived was elaborately arranged with a view to the secret
insertion of letters and other objects through a sliding
panel at the back, and regularly used for this purpose by
Mme. Blavatsky or her agents. *
3. That there is consequently a very strong general
presumption that all the marvelous narratives put for­
ward as evidence of the existence and occult power of the
Mahatmas are to be explained as due (a) either to deliber­
ate deception carried out by or at the instigation of Mme.
Blavatsky, or (b) to spontaneous illusion or hallucination
or unconscious mis-representation or invention on the part f
of the witnesses.
4. That after examining Mr. Hodgson’s Report of his
personal inquiries, they are of opinion that the testimony
to these marvels is in no case sufficient, taking amount and
character together, to resist the force of the general pre­
sumption above mentioned. *
58
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUt>
Accordingly they think it would be a waste of time to
prolong the investigation.
Of “Madame Helen Petrovna Blavatsky,” the Com­
mittee stated:
For our own part, we regard her neither as the mouth­
piece of hidden seers, nor as a mere vulgar adventuress.
We think that she has achieved a title to permanent remem­
brance as one of the most accomplished, ingenious, and
interesting imposters in history.30
Q
..1 1
Proceedings,III, 203.
2
Proceedings, m , 204.
m id ., p.208.
«leL 4Incidents, pp.293-6.
I0(L 5Time (March, 1891).
^Proceedings, III, 220-1.
m id ., pp.2 1 0 , 226, 237, 312.
^ m id ., pp.2 1 0 , 237-9, 309-11, 386.
’01$ °Ibid., p.246, App. IV.
'e15, 10Ibid., p.247.
jgw 11Proceedings, III, 220, 250.
12Proceedings, HI, 145.
V 13Proceedings, Vol. IX, p.135.
' 14Report of Investigations, etc., Madras (1885).
15Proceedings, Vol. Ill, p.210; App. IV, pp.288-9.
?
r
a
l 16Proceedings, III, 380, and Judge’s plan in Vol. IX, p.139.
’
o
f. 17Proceedings, III, 318-380.
|{ isIbid., Ill, 381-3.
f 1m id., Vol. IX, p.146.
20Proceedings, Vol. IX, p.146.
m bid., Vol. IX, p.27.
22Ibid., Ill, 274.
23/bid., Vol. IX.
24Sinnett, Incidents (references to letters).
25The Blavatsky-Coulomb letters ran from 1880-1883.
26Proceedings, Vol. IX, p.148. Khun and Kingsland repeat Mrs. Besant.
21Ibid., p.147.
28Cf. Proceedings, Vol. Ill, pp.211-218. App. I and II, pp.318-22.
29MJPJ., p.65.
30Proceedings, III, 204-7.
B a
\
lb \ 1
9 ». t
r V \
%
59
C H A PTER VI
M m e. B’s phenom ena in E urope; her countryman
Sqlovyoff explains h er frauds. M rs. Besant reviews *
M m e. B’s book. The Secret D octrine, and becomes a
theosophist. The sources of the Secret Doctrine prov­
ed to be, not M ahatm ic and T ibetan but nineteenth as
century books m ostly superceded. Mme. B’s death fa
and ch aracter considered. i
m
PHENOM ENA IN EUROPE ^
Having fled from Madras, and with Hodgson’s Report n
o
n A
ringing in her ears, Mme. Blavatsky still continued to “pro^ d<
the existence of the Mahatmas and their benign interest in the aS
ain \ cc
of the Theosophical Society by the same class of spurious p
l*
. vr
nomena—the astral call-bell, faked K.H. letters, showers of ro
se
s, P1
etc. 0
1
An example or two must here suffice. The mysterious sonni
heard by her visitors in Bombay, Madras, Paris, and elsew
h
en
,
Mme. attributed to an “astral bell” used by her Master whenit
wished to communicate with her. Of this phenomenon Sinnett w
ro
te: *
. . . I have repeatedly heard Mme. Blavatsky called in
this way. . . . A little “ting,” would suddenly sound, and
Mme. Blavatsky would get up and go to her room to attend
to whatever occult business may have been the motive of
the summons.1
Now, according to Mme. Coulomb, the silvery sounds c®s.
from a mechanical device which H.P.B. tinkled by pressing is
arm against her waist, where the bell was concealed. Sometiffi
her servant, Babula, would sound a bell in the distance or oni:
roof as directed. But we must not accept uncorroborated
Coulomb’s statements. Something suddenly fell at Madame’s is1
at W urzburg, one day when the famous bell sounded.
60
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
I hurried [writes SolovyofF, her visitor at the moment]
to pick it up and found in my hands a pretty little piece of
silver, delicately worked and strangely shaped. Helen
Petrovna changed countenance and snatched the object
from me. I coughed significantly, smiled and turned the
conversation to different matters.2
Later, when Madame thought she had captured her countryman
as an accomplice, he asked to see the magic bell. She produced it
from her dress, showed it, but would not allow him to examine it.
“A cunning little thing, my occult telegraph, through which I com­
municate with the Master.” She placed it in a drawer, locked it,
and said: “You shall know enough; you shall soon grow wise.”3
Another morning he called to witness promised phenomena. Ma­
dame sat in her big armchair while her dwarfish servant, “with a
confused look in his dull eyes,” stood at the other end of the table
with several sheets of clean paper in front of him and a great
pencil in his hand. As the setting was new, Solovyoff kept his eyes
on Bavaji, while walking as customary about the room.
I saw that he was keeping his eyes open, with a sort of
contortion of his whole body, while his hand, armed with
the great pencil, was carefully tracing some letters on a
sheet of paper. “Look, what is the matter with him ?” ex­
claimed Madame Blavatsky. “Nothing particular,” I an­
swered. “He is writing in Russian.” I saw her whole face
grow purple. She began to stir in her chair, with an ob­
vious desire to get up and take the paper from him. But
with her swollen and almost inflexible limbs, she could
not do so with any speed. I made haste to seize the paper,
and saw on it a beautifully drawn Russian phrase. Bavaji
was to have written in the Russian language with which he
was not acquainted: “Blessed are they that believe,” as said
the great “Adept.” He had learned his task well, and re­
membered the form of all the letters, but he had omitted
two in the word believe. [The effect was precisely the same
as if in English he had omitted the first two and last letters
of the word.] “Blessed are they that lie ” I read aloud,
unable to control the laughter that shook me. “That is the
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
best thing I ever saw. Oh, Bavaji, you should have got your
lesson up better for examination.”4
The tiny Hindu fled and, Madame, with distorted face, ^
claimed! “So you think I taught him! It is the spirit ‘element^ '
who are making fun of him, poor fellow, and what a vexation L
m e!”
To Solovyoff, thought captured, Madame confided: “Supp^
my books and The Theosophist had been a thousand times ®
0
)>
interesting and serious, do you imagine I should have had any5
^ j
of success anywhere if behind all that there had not been the ‘ph.
nomena’?”5 So we see that faked phenomena was necessary to d
ia»
recruits from Christianity, lightly held,' it may be, to the M
a
­
hatma colors. It was these phenomena only which interested aid
men as Crooks, Flammarion, Charles Richet, and the English savanu \
who established the London Society for Psychical Research, h
W hy I Became a Theosophist Mrs. Besant tells us that it was larger
because of the phenomena she joined the T.S. But these phenom
ena
are still defended and attributed by Theosophists to M
ahatm
k
agency. If the phenomena were genuine and designed and ex
ecu
ted
by the Masters as a means of propaganda, it is passing strangetk
it should cease in India at the instance of two alleged foreign forgec \
and a few Scotch K irk missionaries, and on Madame’s departat '
To Sinnett’s sneer, that Hodgson’s “unfamiliarity with hit
and Indian ways,” led him into “majiy serious mistakes,” H
odgson'
crushing reply was:
He may, indeed, mean that I ought not have been sur­
prised to find that certain Chelas told me deliberate false­
hoods, and that had I been more familiar with Indian way9,
I should have known that such falsehoods were the natural
outcome of “occultism.”
It was not unfamiliarity with Indian ways that had led
the Parsee gentleman, Mr. K. M. Seervai, formerly vice-
President of the T.S. at Bombay, to give up all connection
with the Society; or that led Mr. S. K. Chatterjee, former!}
tv THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
\ President of the Lahore Branch, to declare that the Society
< was “a huge imposture” ; or that led Mr. A. O. Hume, long
n before the exposures of the Coulombs, to the opinion that
\ some of the Chelas were morally untrustworthy, that the
\ Shrine was a “conjurer’s box,” and that many other of
Madame Blavatsky’s phenomena were fraudulently pro­
duced; or that led Pundit Dayanund Saraswati, the Presi-
\ dent of the Aryr Samaj of India, to inform the public in
1882 that “neither Colonel Olcott nor Madame Blavatsky
knows anything of Yog Vidya [Occult Science] as prac-
I ticed by the Yogis of old,” and that “for them to say that
^ they perform their phenomena without apparatus, without
any secret pre-arrangement and solely through the forces
existing in nature and by what they call their will power,
is to tell lies.”6
THE SECRET DOCTRINE (Madame’s greatest work)
Sinnett writes: “Within the last few months of 1885, she began
to receive the occult ‘Inspiration’ required for the production of
the long-promised book on The Secret Doctrine.”7 According to
Madame Blavatsky, its author, it is founded on “an archaic manu­
script, a collection of palm leaves made impermeable to water, fire,
and air by some specific process.”8 According to Coleman, “The
book was the work of Madame Blavatsky—a compilation in her
own language, from a variety of sources. . . .”
I find in this, “the oldest book in the world,” state­
ments copied from nineteenth century books, and in the
usual blundering manner of Madame Blavatsky. Letters
and other writings of the Adepts are found in The Secret
Doctrine. In these Mahatmic productions I have traced va­
rious plagiarized passages from Wilson’s Vishnu Purana
and Winchell’s World Life of like character* to those in
Madame Blavatsky’s acknowledged writings.9
ENTER MRS. ANNIE BESANT
It was The Secret Doctrine which turned Annie Besant from an
ardent Atheist into a tempestuous Theosophist.
63
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
It appears from her Autobiography that for some tin-
had been growing a conviction that the “philosophy" which k J
her to abandon her Christian home and children was not -jfv
that “fife and mind77 were other than she had dreamed. ~h.b
darkness shot a ray of light.”1* Then she began to dabble in «pi
alistic phenomena. Next, a voice told her that light was mar
came in two volumes which Stead of The Recietc of Retieus gave
to review. She was “dazzled, blinded by the light;" and all
k
w
“pozzies, riddles, problems seemed to disappear . . . in that f
of iBnmination I knew that the weary search was over and that
very troth was found.”—The Secret Doctrine of Mme. Blavatskj.
Proofs, for want of which she alleges die abandoned the faj&
of her fathers, no longer troubled M rs. B esant She sought oat At
writer of The Secret D octrine, and begged to be enrolled a s a ­
ber of the Theoeophical Society. Hodgson’s Report was already foe
vears «dd_ and Mrs. Besant had never heard of it; hot Mme. Blavat-
dty told her to go and read, and “if yon come back—w ell. - - Bor­
rowing a copy. Mrs. Besant “read it and read it,” and quickly saw
what some of the keenest brains in Britain had failed to detect—
“the incredible character of the allegations.”
Could I put such [evidence] against the frank, fearless
nature that I had caught a glimpse of it, [it was her third
visit to Madame] against the proud, fiery, truthfulness that
shone at me from the clear blue eyes, honest, fearless as
those of a noble child? . . . I laughed aloud a t the ab­
surdity and flung the Report aside, with the -righteous
scorn of an honest nature that knew its own H n when it
met them, and shrank from the foulness and hase-ness
of a lie.11
little wonder, indeed, that the foreign forger should put her
hands os the head of the neophite and ejaculate: “May the Master
Mess you” ; less wonder that in due time Madame’s M ahatm ic mantle
should fall on the shoulders of Mrs. Besant Had she not m et her kin?
64
the STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
Of The Voice of Silence Mrs. Besant says: “She wrote swiftly
without any material copy before her,” and on parts being read
aloud by Mrs. Besant, “she looked at us like a startled child, wonder­
ing at our praises”—as well she might.
I But let us have another opinion of this work written without
any material copy. Coleman writes:
(
I have traced the sources . . . it is a potch-potch from
Brahmanical books on Yoga and other Hindu writings;
Southern Bhuddist books, from Pali and Sinhalese; and
I Northern Bhuddistic writings, from Chinese and Tibetan—
the whole having been taken by Helena Petrovna Blavatsky
from translations by and writings of European and other
Orientalists of today. In this work are intermingled Sans­
krit, Pali, Tibetan, Chinese, and Sinhalese terms—a mani­
fest absurdity in a Tibetan work. '/
* He &en gives a list of the works plagiarized.
MADAME S DEMISE
I On May 8, 1891, Mme. Blavatsky died in London, aged 60.
By the S.P.R. she had been adjudged “one of the most interesting
jj imposters in history,” but by Mrs. Besant, “not the least of the
Master builders of the Universal Religion of the future.”
She was a woman of great energy and industry, with a magnifi-
4 cent memory, vivid imagination and an indomitable will—gifts
which enabled her, despite frequent illnesses and racking pain, to
compile book after book on her special brand of Theosophy.
She was generous to her friends, we are told, although she
used them as pawns; vindictive to her enemies—to all who dared
openly to discredit her Mahatmas or question her phenomena. On
the testimony of her closest friends, Olcott and others, she was
untruthful and unguarded in speech and writing, given to ungovern­
able fits of temper when her language became, not merely unlady­
like, but positively Billingsgate. Her volcanic temperament ever
rebelled against restraint, social and moral.
i m 65
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
“Psychic” to a high degree, her personality (not her perg
was attractive, magnetic, so that those whose confidence she k j
won found it hard to shake off her influence, even when they y
been disillusioned.
Had she but employed her undoubted gifts of imagination anj
telling expression in the creation of literary fiction, and not in fa
n
.
tastic frauds, faked phenomena and plagiarized compilations, as h
er
countryman, Solovyoff, had advised, Helena Petrovna Blavatsky
might he remembered today with affection by all lovers of litera­
ture, and not with contempt by those who know her true history.
Madame Blavatsky had fled Madras before the present w
riter
arrived there, or he would probably have made her acquaintance
as he did that of President Olcott and Mrs. Besant. For personaFl
impressions, therefore, he must rely on others.
Mr. Gorn Old, who had also worked with her, writes in Ae |
Occult W orld, March, 1914:
Her complexion may be described as coffee coloured,
a yellowish brown, and the face had no square inch that
was not scored by a thousand wrinkles. This and the white
of her eyes, which were not white at all but yellow, gave
one the impression of “Liver and the tropics.” . . • The
inevitable cigarette called immediate attention to her hands.
They were really beautiful hands, but uncanny . . • and
every phlange of the lithe, tapering fingers was double-
jointed. They seemed to be endowed with a life of their
own. They were seldom still for more than a few seconds
together. Later on she gave some sort of reason for this.
Holding her hands perfectly still over a table, the palms
curved so as to form a sort of inverted cup, she remained
so for perhaps two minutes or so, when suddenly there was
a loud explosion like the crack of a rifle, and one expected
to see that the table itself had split from end to end.
Mr. J. R. Bridges, her correspondent for many years wrote
of her in the Arena:
THE STORY OF a GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
“There was a Titanic display of strength in every­
thing she did. The storms that raged were cyclones. Those
exposed to them often felt, with Solovyoff, if there were
holy and sage Mahatmas, they could not remain holy and
sage and have anything to do with H.P.B. . . . Her mastery
of some natures seemed complete.”
THE QUESTION OF MOTIVE
It was natural, but by no means necessary, for Mr. Hodgson,
having concluded his investigations into the phenomena and the
Blavatsky-Coulomb letters and a batch of K.H. and M. letters, to sug­
gest or attribute to Mme. Blavatsky a motive for her frauds and
deceptions. It was at a time when uthe Russian Scare” was prom i­
nent before the minds of Anglo-Indians. A decade later a belt of
casurina trees was pointed out to the writer as having been planted
some years before to conceal the shore batteries near the Madras
harbor. Not knowing as much of the history of Madame as we
know today, Hodgson suggested that H.P.B. was in fact a Russian
spy. The Committee of the S.P.R. did not endorse this opinion,
nor did the general public in India. She was at most a potential
spy, which is quite another thing. Solovyoff, who criticizes Hodg­
son s accusation, reports a conversation with her at Wurzburg:
Look here. You are soon going to St. Petersburg;
now to undertake a very important business of the greatest
benefit to Russia. I wish to propose myself as a secret
agent of the Russian Government in India. To promote the
triumph of my country over those vile English, I am
capable of anything. I hate the English Government in
India with its missionaries; they are all my personal
enemies, thirsting for my destruction. Help me in such a
patriotic cause.
Other motives are attributed to H.P.B. by other writers besides
love of T h eo so p h y — such as notoriety, power-seeking, vanity, and
hatred of Christianity. They were present in varying degrees, no
doubt—the last perhaps in greatest proportion.
67
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
A member of the Orthodox Christian Church, Madame B
U
,
vatsky had traveled in Christian and pagan countries, had com
e4
contact with Latin Christianity on the continent, with Protestantism
in England and America, with Hinduism, Buddhism, and M
oham
­
medanism in Africa and India, yet “it seems certain from her m l
mgs that Roman Catholicism was the object of her greatest hattM
and that English and American Protestantism came only a littleI
way behind it as the objects o f her deepest scorn,” writes the authonM
o f W ho Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
xThe O ccult W orld, pp.37-41.
pp.149-50.
pJ5&
pp.146-7.
51fJ>J , pp-155-6.
^Proceedings, VoL IX 132-3.
^Incidents, p-30L
%
Tke Secret D octrine, chap. XXI, XXII.
*M PJ^ App. C
1®Sinnett, The O ccult W orld, with its “wonderful, suggestive letters.”
11Autobiography, chap. XIV.
th
ac
Si
th
ai
I T
B
.
n
t3
a
I
I
I
CHAPTER VII
Mme. B’s claims to have lived with Mahatmas
. rjvjjgj- are proved to be fiction. Mme. proved to be
the author of the Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnett
and others.
THE HABITAT OF TH E MAHATMAS
I have lived in different periods in Little and Great
Tibet, and these combined periods form more than seven
years.
—H. P. Blavatsky, Light, August, 1884.
I Mme. Blavatsky underwent “a course of studies for a
period of seven years in a Himalyayan retreat.”
—A. P. Sinnett The Occult World.
Apart from Mme. Blavatsky’s own uncorroborated assertions,
the first of which appeared in Isis Unveiled, in 1877, all subsequent
accounts of her sojourn with Mahatmas in Tibet are secondhand.
Sinnett s accounts in The Occult World and Incidents differ from
that of Mrs. Besant in 1907.
H.P.B. says she entered Tibet in 1856, but later said she entered
again in 1864. Sinnett says that, warned by “Master,” she quitted
Tibet before the outbreak of the Indian Mutiny (May, 1857). Mrs.
Besant says H.P.B. failed three times to enter the Forbidden Land—
in 1848 (when she was only seventeen), in 1853, and in 1855—but
that she succeeded in 1864 and again in 1868. The 1864 entry is
about eight years later than the Isis account for 1856. Thus Madame
records one success, which Sinnett repeats, but Mrs. Besant gives
two successful entries of Madame into Tibet which are not assigned
by her or by her biographer to the years mentioned by Mrs. Besant.
But what becomes of Sinnett’s “good reason to feel sujre she had
already been with the Masters in Tibet” ?1 Sinnett says seven years
69
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
are quite necessary before any Mahatma secrets are divulged to
chela.2 Now at the period of her alleged entry into the Forbidden
Land the Maharajah allowed no foreigner (feringhi) into Tibetyith- I
out a Passport signed by a British officer. No such record has been I
produced in the case of Madame Blavatsky. H.P.B. vaguely m
en- I
tioned the Kashmir Pass or the Ghobi desert as the abode of the )
Great White Brotherhood, while Mrs. Besant fixed their habitat 1
somewhere near Shigaste. Now, Rockhill, the American explorer 1
and Tibetan scholar, made enquiry in the neighborhood and at many 1
monasteries, but heard nothing either of Mahatmas or of Madame’s
visit—indeed he was laughed at by the Lamas for his pains.3 Sven ■
Hedin, a friend of Mrs. Besant, spent six weeks in the city and j
neighborhood of Shigaste, and was the honored guest of the Tashi 1
Lama, but he found no trace of Mahatmas.4 Captain Deasy, who i
spent three years in exploration in Tibet, had nothing to record of 1
the Great White Brotherhood.5 Neither had Savage Landor, who
painted Tibetan types galore. “As to Mahatmas . . . they are purely i
imaginary and don’t exist.”6 Amundsen,7 Ferguson,8 and Waddell, 1
all drew blank.
The latest book which touches Tibet is entitled In Search of
The Mahatmas by E. G. Schary, published 1937. This daring young
man, having studied Hindu and Buddhistic literature in San Fran­
cisco, set out almost penniless, but endowed with extraordinary
courage, credulity, and endurance, to find the Mahatmas. Unlike
Mme. Blavatsky’s alleged journeyings in Tibet, Schary’s are vouched
for by Mr. David Macdonald, who at that time was British trade
agent at Gyantze. In Twenty Years in Tibet he describes Schary’s
arrival at the Fort: “A begrimed and filthily clad figure, covered
with festering sores, crawled up to the main gate of the Fort.
Four months out from Kashmir.” But Schary also failed to find
Mahatmas.
Before that, some distinguished Hindu scholars had wandered
over the Tibetan hills, visiting monasteries, and had brought back
»
e
t
V '
*
O
f
J
a|j
^O
h
%
*
*
V
|
Si
«
i<
j *
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
to Calcutta some precious MSS., but like the European travelers, they
had nothing to report of Mahatmas.
Strange to relate, it was not in far off Tibet that Mme. Blavatsky
met for the first time a Mahatma. Mrs. Besant describes the meeting:
In August, 1851, we find her in London, and there, on
a moonlight night, as her diary tells us, beside the Ser­
pentine [in Hyde Park] “I met the Master of my dreams.”
He then told her that he had chosen her to work in a so­
ciety, and some time afterwards, with her father’s permis­
sion, she went into training for her future mission, passing
through seven and ten years of probation, trial, and hard
work.10
Hi
ir|j0 After so categorical a statement of fact the reader may be sur-
. , prised to learn that “the diary” in question is not a diary at all but
|j0 a book of drawings in which the only entry was the passage about
I Madames dream, which could have been entered any time during
9 » the previous twelve years. At the alleged meeting by moonlight alone
and in Hyde Park at that hour, Madame was twenty years of age.
We have had a peep at Madame in training, not with mythical
Mahatmas, but with ordinary humans, named, respectively, Metro-
» vich, Mayendorff, and Betanelly. But that the Mahatma myth is still
the piece de resistance of Theosophical history is evidenced by the
publications of the T.S. in England, on the Continent, and in the
(, United States. Mr. W. Kingsland thinks that “on the general principle
of evolution we are bound to accept of their existence . . .”11
In 1936 there was published in London a work which surely
should disillusion honest Theosophists and convince them that the
foundation, of the whole Theosophical teaching is a lie. The book
is written by two brothers—one was a Theosophist for many years—
H. E. and W. L. Hare, and is entitled Who Wrote The Mahatma
Letters? 12 But not till the publication of The Mahatma Letters To
A. P. Sinnett, in 1923, and Letters of H. P. Blavatsky To A. P. Sin-
nett, in 1924, and the permission later given to compare with the
71
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CX).
printed text the MSS. of the two series, was it possible u
once and for all the question: Who wrote the Mahatma lettl'T**
M ahatma Letters number 130, and run to 500 pages. The aijn ^
studied all available sources, including the letters, diaries, am] ** j
of H.P.B. while in America (1875-9), which were published in T
he
Theosophist, at Adyar, between 1923-5: Isis Unveiled (1877); -
letters of H.P.B. in Appx. of The Mahatma Letters; and, of co
u
rse
The Letters of H.P.B. to Sinnett; for all these are believed by The.
osophists to be the genuine Blavatsky writings. The authors w
ere
not permitted to photograph any of the m ss. It should surprise
TTieosophists to learn that only seven, or parts of seven, of The
Mahatma Letters formed the basis of Sinnett’s “astonishing dis­
closures” of occult science in The Occult W orld, and that only tw
o
of the sixteen Mahatma Letters on which his Esoteric Buddhism is
based, are quoted literally. In 1881 Sinnett called the suggestion
that H.P.B. might be the author of The Mahatma Letters a m
ere
absurdity,” and stated definitely: “She certainly is not the producer
of their handwriting.”13
Having carefully scrutinized the original manuscripts, the
authors sum up and formulate their conclusions, which in substance
agree with Hodgson’s—that the Mahatma letters were written by
Madame H. P. Blavatsky, but a few by her Hindu secretary and asso­
ciates. Like Hodgson, but on a larger scale, they found much evi­
dence of bad English and French constructions and American col­
loquialisms, such as would not be expected in the writings of tvro
Asiatic sages. Why, they ask, do these omniscient Mahatmas write
from Tibet to an Englishman in India “in the thought-basis of Paris
and the street locution of New York. . . . They do not scruple to
falsify veritable documents in pursuit of an eclectic propaganda.”
Unable to deny the resemblance of her style and language to those
of the Mahatmas, Madame boldly affirmed that she learned her
English from them in Tibet.14 (See Blavatsky Letters p.479.) But
we know she had an English governess in Russia, and traveled and
tf)
h ^ THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
le%A lived in England and America long before she dreamed her dream
\ \ of Mahatmas. On page 248 the authors give a slightly reduced fac-
(}. \ simile of a letter “in the undoubted K.H. hand, believed to have
been addressed about April 6, 1885, to Dr. Franz Hartmann” who
r >
IL was at the time in partial control of the Theosophical Headquarters
? at Adyar. We fear the authors have gone astray on this point, be-
' ll cause H.P.B. and Olcott left Bombay for Europe by mail steamer on
8 February 21, 1884, and Dr. Hartmann did not reach Adyar from
^ 4 f America till February 29, 1884. The letter in question was pro-
>
{ft duced by Damodar (H.P.B.’s Hindu secretary) at a committee
) 4 > meeting at Adyar on March 22, 1884. H.P.B. and Olcott returned
r4 1 from Europe to Adyar, December 20, 1884, and H.P.B., accom-
• panied by Dr. Hartmann as medical adviser, left Madras by steamer
tio > 0n *Lhe that the letter in question is “exception-
1 a^y firm an^ clear, is correct in grammar, spelling, and punctua­
tion inclines us to the belief with Hodgson, who, we think, saw
f^ this letter at Adyar, that it was written by Damodar, who was well
acquainted with the Mahatma peculiarity in crossing his t’s with a
,
e ^
on£ sfroke and overlining all his m*s, a Russian mannerism, ac-
, cording to Mr. Bechhofer Roberts, of Russians writing in French
or English. As the translator of five Russian plays and the author
f books on Russia, we accept his judgment.
As in the Gospel drama the denier’s tongue belied the truth
of his words, so in the “Theosophical Evangel” the deceiver’s pen
unwittingly discovers her deceit.
Either the Masters exist, and H.P.B. was their mes­
senger; or she was utterly fraudulent.. . . In the latter case
the sooner the whole movement disintegrates the better;
its dead corpse cannot be destroyed too soon.
So wrote Dawn, November, 1924, the official organ of the
Royal Lodge of the T.S. in Sydney. The Hare brothers should find
satisfaction in the fact that they have by their painstaking investiga­
tions proved the first alternative to be false, and the second so true
73
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
that it only remains for their work to be read by tf
Theosophists for these to decide to renounce a cult wb' v.V
''1
founded on fraud and propagated by fiction. ' *
“"'•Vi,..
t
I
1Incidents, p.157.
%The Occult World, p.7.
8See The Land of the Lamas and Discoveries and Adventures in Tibet (188b
1903).
4Trans-Himalaya (1910).
5In Tibet and Chinese Turkestan (1903).
6Tibet and Nepal (1905).
tin The Land of The Lamas (1901).
8Sports and Travel in Betan and The Steppes (1911).
9L’Ase and Its Mysteries (1905).
X
Q
H. P. Blavatsky and The Masters of Wisdom (1907).
xxThe Real H. P. Blavatsky, p.303 (1927).
12p.326, Demy 8 to .
xzThe Occult World, pp.99-100.
xxBlavatsky Letters, p.479.
74
CHAPTER VIII
%
1
% |
How Olcott, Judge, and Mrs. Besant fought for the
post of President; Judge and Mrs. Besant angling
to oust Olcott from his nominal position as President;
how Judge forged M ahatma letters and accused Mrs.
Besant of doing likewise; how the council of the
Theosophical Society refusing to publish the docu­
ments and counter charges (M rs. Besant had care­
fully burned the originals), a m ember publishes his
copy, thus revealing an unsavory scandal; how
Judge founded the Universal Brotherhood of the
Theosophical Society in Am erica which, under Mrs.
Katherine Tingley, established itself at Point Loma.
A FIGHT FOR THE PRESIDENCY ( t .S.)
At the time of Mme. Blavatsky’s death in London, May 8, 1891,
Olcott was lecturing in Australia; Judge had been presiding at the
American T.S. Convention; and Mrs. Besant was at sea, returning
from the Convention. On receiving the cablegram announcing
H.P.B.’s death, Judge, the vice-President, wired: “Do nothing till
I come.” On his arrival he immediately took possession of H.P.B.’s
keys and correspondence, and in a few days produced messages
purporting to have come directly to him from Mme. Blavatsky’s
alleged Master. When Mrs. Besant arrived, she produced an Order
written by Mme. Blavatsky when in the flesh appointing her head
of the Esoteric Section. Judge suggested they should share the re­
sponsibilities: he in America, and she in Europe, but first he would
like to consult the Master. After a few hours he showed his query,
and written across it was: “yes, Judge s plan is right. Later Mrs.
Besant found among her papers a slip written in the well-known
75
I
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
red pencil used by the Mahatma and stamped with his m
onogr 11
M. Soon Mahatma letters began to be found in various places, L J
ing for general subject Judge’s fitness for the Society’s higLj
office, Mrs, Besant was elated. Was not this a stronger proof of^ I
existence of the Master? H.P.B. is dead, yet letters from her MasZj
arrive; the same peculiar paper, pencil, writing, and seal.
In August, 1891, a farewell meeting was organized by her 0
1
<
j
friends. Doubting freethinkers as of old, and her new friends, tl* ]
Theosophists, awaited her speech with different emotions. S
I* I
would justify her new-found faith:
You have known me in this Hall for sixteen years.
You have never known me to tell a lie. I tell you that since
Madame Blavatsky left, I have had letters in the same hand­
writing as the letters which she received. . . . You are sur­
prised. , . . All the evidence I had of the existence of Ma­
dame Blavatsky’s Teachers of the so-called abnormal pow­
ers came through her. It is not so now. . . . I have exactly
the same certainty for the truth of the statements I have
made, as I know that you are here. I refuse to be false to
the knowledge of my intellect and the perceptions of my
reasoning faculties.1
If we remember aright, it was the perception of her reasoning 1
faculties which had led Mrs. Annie Besant of old to abandon Chris­
tianity for Atheism, and now Atheism for Theosophy, each in turn I
labeled Truth.
Reviewing her Autobiography in The Nineteenth Century
(September, 1894), Mr. Gladstone, freed from the premiership,
wrote:
The book shows with how much at least of intellec­
tual ease, and that unquestioning assumption of being
right, vast spaces of mental traveling may be performed.
Mrs. Besant passes from her earliest to her latest stage of
thought as lightly as the swallow skims the surface of the
lawn and with just as little effort to ascertain what lies be­
neath. . . . In the general absence of argument to explain
76
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
the causes of her movements, she apparently thinks
it sufficient to supply us with her three portraits as carrying
with them sufficient attestation. . . .
Olcott and Judge, the President and the vice-President, two
wide-awake Americans, angled for position and played “with the
recklessness of mining-camp poker.” In Isis Very Much Unveiled
is the facsimile of a Mahatma letter which Judge slipped into a
letter addressed to Olcott assuring him that Judge is not a forger
and that the Mahatma’s seal is safe with him in Tibet. A learned
Brahman, who, with Mrs. Besant, represented Theosophy at the
World Fair at Chicago and who became her guru (teacher) in
India, laid before her “conclusive evidence” that Judge forged
Mahatma letters. Olcott at Adyar, was not surprised. Had he not
bought the peculiar rice paper and given the M seal to Mme.
Blavatsky in Kashmir? But when Hodgson was investigating the
K.H. letters, the President gave him no help in this matter. Backed
by the Indian Theosophists, Olcott sent Mrs. Besant’s accusing
letter to Judge, and suggested that he should either resign by cable
or stand his trial at the London Convention in July, 1894 Judge
denied the charges. At the Convention he at once challenged the
jurisdiction of the committee on the ground that even had he been
guilty the offence would have been committed in his private ca­
pacity, not as vice-President. The Council of the T.S. upheld his
plea. Then Mrs. Besant expressed her view in a speech which puts
Portia in the shade.
. . . I believe he has sometimes received messages for
other people . . . but not by direct writing by the Master,
nor by His direct precipitation; and that Mr. Judge has
then believed himself justified in writing down in the script
adopted by H.P.B. for communication from the Master
the message psychically received, and in giving it to the
person for whom it was intended, leaving that person to
wrongly assume that it was a direct precipitation or writing
by the Master Himself. . . .
When I said that I had received, after H. P. Blavatsky s
77
¥
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
death, letters in the writing H.PB
t • * t •
» i 6 . naa been accused , (
forging, I referred to letters given me by Mr I«„W 1
as they were in the well-known script, I never' U z w l o l
challenging their source. I now know that they were not
written or precipitated by the Masters, and that they were
done by Mr. Judge . . . hut I also believe the gist of the*
messages was psychically received, and that Mr. Judge*
error lay in giving them to me in a script written by him­
self. . . ,2
This defense of forgery—if one may apply the term to n
o&
.
existent Mahatmas— pleased the Committee, anxious to keep tbs
Society together. But Judge was not satisfied; neither were some of
the T.S. officials. Judge issued a manifesto declaring Mrs. Besant’i
headship of the Esoteric Section at an end, for she had tried psychic
experiments on him and had, in league with one Chakavarti (her
Brahman guru), flooded the Society with spurious documents from
phantasmal Mahatmas and Black Magicians.
When Mr. Gom Old, one of the London officials, urged the pub­
lication of all the evidence, as promised the Indian Theosophiste,
he was informed that Mrs. Besant had burned all the document*.
She had in fact but followed Judge’s example in burning the Shrine
at Adyar in order to destroy the evidence of fraud. But, unfor­
tunately for her reputation, copies had been taken, which, on their
being refused for publication by the London T.S. authorities, Mr.
Old handed to Mr. Edmund Garrett, who published them and the
disgraceful story in the Westminster Gazette, October and Novem­
ber, 1894. Had he not done so we would have heard as little of this
matter as we would have heard of the Leadbeater-Besant letters had
not Mrs. Besant blundered in that matter also. Later the articles
were published in book form. A copy is now very difficult to pro­
cure. Judge could not stand the exposure. Backed by a majority
of American Theosophists, he formed The Universal Brotherhood
and Theosophical Society, which, after his death within a year, split,
a large section following Mrs. Katherine Tingley, who finally settled
78
THE STORY OF A GREAT AN TI-CH RISTIAN FRAUD
down at Point Loma, C alifornia, w here the S ociety is rich and
flourishing. During the Convention at A dyar, D ecem ber, 1912, M rs.
Besant referred to the “Sister Society” th u s:
The tireless m alignity w hich has its center at P oin t
Loma has been exceptionally active, and has deluged the
country with articles so unclean and so m endacious that
one stands amazed at the spectacle. A s you know , I have
uttered no word against M rs. T ingley, the leader o f P oin t
I Loma, during the seven years o f her ceaseless attacks.
And Christians are invited by Mrs. Besant to join the T.S. and
become “better Christians” !
Neither Olcott nor Mrs. Besant ever attempted to refute any of
the statements in the Westminster Gazette, an eloquent comment on
t Theosophical tactics.
1Garrett, Isis Very Much Unveiled.
2Isis Very Much Unveiled, chap. V.
r
CHAypyjH \ \
'Urn 'flum tyhkM l ¥****» L
I .J , I , / W VAtf>r/t A I
tttp'U'f 0m ytt'A vm tm y o i M n i* „ ' ******
f4 ty)i'h iffMttdt *A 0 m ifUS iU t0uA m (%
**) U * 'ftm o*oplfyt k m I \ 2 ** (**"**'
0 m e o ttfid te tii o f M n j/ ' v'
\my\mtmAS m W rtw pm tum ,. H ow K A !!
k * *,*#, y t^ T X u ^
f» t* iiy A k o A ^ A 0rn irrarmit wm m ty whhh
W m M fotm U 'A 0* p rep a re 0m w orld for ilti u ^ ?
I > HW WWttlk
tettff*
n r K*i****m »m cmmcm i* m z mazuk
M*f» ayyrm pritee that* to vo o id e \m vute#k
*'**'■ m ‘MmAA r4 r /)tm orgpM mfa/o m m proper rurmug
<*iter, maH&m 0 * m m m t wfmo 0m tytr'A *A the ts;d
(*}*t,A *h*, ,ji tew yn d ifiUt K/ iA m am urtin SrA y and Set)*
hm utmmm on 0*w ^M0h
*/. M, WiUUme, Tim, Ynruonute YUg/m r
Or* A te A tteh o f (>A*nmd OSo*AX a t M y nr, in V /f l, Mr*,
*»*# *teteA VteoterA A 0m *$3,? a pf#MfM 0m hAA till her deAh
it* te\Aeu.S*ef, V/'A, 0 , 0m, ttyp.;*A eiy)itymux.
In %$$$ Mine, YAarteAty had mt, up 0m, YntAenc Seetk* “fof
0m teepet tt ,4y A VteAetw, VhHogoghyf* An Ifiner C i r d e v a t “we
Wtded for 0***m *u*fy wty* wym wiSUng to go further and go fateerT
An Mm, t'*e*m t* aterai Mr, C V/, Ijtadheater, went, fatter
and fnrthet 0tm Ahem fa hk w&ufa teudien, we mute p v e bun apace,
Tim YttaererA iharSea W, Smadheteet (C.WJL,}f an Angficaa
(fattee, ten*m eed ihtiteianky, tetd went o>ti to M y ax, Madraa,
witi* Mme, YAarteAy m V#A. fo r f'm y**r» he lectured on T
he*
00
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
osophy and taught boys in Ceylon. Mr. A. P. Sinnett, editor of the
Pioneer, in Allahabad, who had joined the T.S. and had been dis­
missed from the Pioneer, engaged Leadbeater as tutor for his son
and medium for himself in London, since, having fallen out with
H.PJB., she promptly cut his Mahatmic communications. Leadbeater
stipulated that his protege, a Hindu boy named Jinarajadasa, should
remain with him, as the Masters had entrusted the lad to his care.
. Soon the London T.S. Lodge were rejoicing in having been brought
i into touch with the Masters through Leadbeater. Mrs. Besant now
invited Leadbeater to join her band of chelas in Avenue Road, S t
Johns Wood, where they both were soon deep in occultism. Under
his guidance she wrote Esoteric Christianity in 1901, and in 1903
she published The Christian Creed in such a guise as to be recog"
* nizable neither by friend or foe. Together they read the Etheric
Record of past ages, wherein he discovered that Jesus and Christ
are two distinct persons; that the Apostles never lived; that the
^ Gospels are unauthentic, and much besides.2
Henceforth as an Astral Svangali, writes G. M. Williams, he
guided his Trilby and gave her assurance for her adventures among
the astral plains. With little Janara he would accompany her on
^ lecture tours and while she electrified her audience by her undisputed
eloquence, he, in an adjoining room, was said to pour “prana,” or
j mystic reserves of psychic power, into his Trilby. But it was Lead-
i beater’s studies in Thought-Forms which later brought him disgrace.
The story is too long and too sordid to be told in detail, but in view of
the fact that Leadbeater was later the chief conspirator in the plot to
capture the Old Catholic Church movement in England with its valid
Orders for the Liberal Catholic Church in preparation for the New
Messiah in the person of Judd Krishnamurti, and had himself con-
§ secrated bishop to that end, a brief outline is necessary and should
f be known to the clergy of every creed.
The first occasion was when C.W.L. was training the sons of
* T h e o so p h ists in th e United States in 1904,5. Foreseeing a storm,
I
(
81
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
T
H
E
*
,letter:
1 T
0
0
m
aycount
ing
C
olonel 0
he fcurried back to Benares to forestall and “explain” to A B
the formulated charges should arrive from the outraged p jjj
The charges were that he was teaching young boys “dem
oralhj
personal practices.” Detailed evidences of the boys were givenJ
the charges signed by Mrs. Dennis, mother of one of the boys, J
was also Corresponding Secretary of the Esoteric Section of theT^. 1
by Fullerton, the Genl. Sec.; by Knothe, the Asst. Genl. Sec.; andb
yI &
^et0
Elizabeth M. Chidester, Asst. Corn Sec. of the Esoteric Section» | ^ ^ (1
America.
b
eg
8
0
to engi
to the
read the Ed
vestigations
{Thence, fit
com
ingof
thesonof
initiation(
m
em
bers of
_ resulted iron
At the Enquiry held in London, on May 16, 1906, L
ead
b
eater 1 00i t0 \dya
based his defence on his power to see the astral thought-forms o
i 1
his pupils; but the Committee, composed of American, French, a
n
dI
British Theosophists, would accept neither his explanation norh
is1
immoral remedy. Foreseeing his condemnation, Olcott, the Presi-1
dent of the T.S., who had come from India, dictated beforehanda1
letter of resignation, which, on behalf of Leadbeater, he would pro-1
duce at an opportune moment “in order to save the Society fro
m|
embarrassment.” Meanwhile Mrs. Besant, in Benares, had write™
to Mrs. Dennis: “I know Mr. Leadbeater to be a disciple of d
m
Master K.H. . . . I know that if he were evil-minded this couldn
ot
be. I cannot therefore join in hounding him out of the T.S....
But when the stenographic Report of the Committee of E
nquiry
reached her, and her Svangali was not at hand to “explain,” M
rs.
Besant believed she had been the victim of “glamour” {i.e. illusion,
or Black Magic, like Mrs. Eddy’s “malicious animal magnetism”),
when she was with Leadbeater. Thus she wrote to Fullerton in July,
1906:
He denied none of the charges, but in answer to
questions he very much strengthened them. . . . Let me
here place on record that such teaching as this given to
men, let alone to innocent boys, is worthy of the sterne t
reprobation. . . .
Despite this, there were frequent intimate exchange, I
and cablegrams between C.W.L. and A.B. In September h 1
guar<
aw
ay
initii
live
tim
<
82 I
\
IK A
S J * ^ th e STORE OF a GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
V S $ dada a letter: “If I can be of use by standing by your side again,
% S S ' rou may count upon me as already there.” Immediately on succeed-
S ^ *g Colonel 01cott aS President of T S * in 1907’ MrS* 6633111
began to engineer the return of her “dear Brother Charles Lead-
i eC,;9Ji/';^ beater” t0 the Society* In The Theosophist, January, 1909, she was
C v able to announce his return “to his place in the Society”— his place
H and duty being that “of discovering and training hopeful young
t ) members of the TJS., in which work he had found great m ischief
ht resu^ fr°m suppressed thoughts and desires.” Leadbeater went
\ 0r^ of! out to Adyar, Madras, where he taught Theosophy and wrote and
^ 3
i(JI rea<^ J^hcric records till another scandal arose. The occult in*
1
5
0
,1h
is vesfigations of the twain in 1910 were published in 1913 as M an:
h®j. } Whence, How, Whither? which was intended to pave the way for the
)rehanda f com*
n£ World Teacher in the person of young Krishnamurti,
0uIdm 1 .theSOn °f 3 Hindu secretary at Adyar and a pupil of C.W.L. Of the
ety fr
o
mj “,ltiat^
on ceremony of this boy of fifteen A.B. wrote:
f w
ritten , fat Adyar] last January [1911], carefully
i of tie guarded, lay the empty body of the young disciple taken
,,/j , * a^a7 to ^lb)et for his mystic initiation, and hither the new
; I initiate returned to take up again his dwelling therein, to
i.... y live under the guardianship of his elder brethren until the
nquiry ' tlme 1S n pe for the ending of his trust.
Becoming suspicious of Leadbeater’s conduct, the father of
jsion, i Krishna and his brother brought an action against Mrs. Annie
®/» / Besant to terminate her guardianship of his boys. On the witness
W f stand Mrs. Besant stated, inter alia, that Krishna had been associated
i with Mr. Leadbeater in many previous lives; that she had said
f that Krishna’s body will be used by the Lord Maityra; that the Lord
f Maityra and Christ are one; that the body of Krishna will be used
i some time hence by the Lord Maityra. In giving judgement Mr.
Justice Bakewell said:
11 Mr. Leadbeater admitted in his evidence that he had
S } held and even now holds, opinions which I need only de-
' - scribe as certainly immoral, and such as to unfit him to be
I
1
83
f
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
the tutor of the boys, and taken in conjunction with h‘
professed power to detect the approach of impure though!
render him a highly dangerous associate for children.6 ’
I direct the defendant to hand over the custody of the tw
o
boys to the plaintiff on or before the 29th of M
a
1913. ‘ •y
,
Mrs. Besant finally appealed to the Privy Council, which uw I
the Judge’s ruling on a technical point of jurisdiction—the W
were in England at the time— and she remained their guardian, h
was nine years before Krishnamurti returned to India.
After the exposure in the Alcyone Case, as it was called, L
ea
d
-
beater thought it advisable to quit India, and in Australia b
egan
to train boys in the way they should walk on the astral plain.
THE OLD CATHOLIC CHURCH AND THE LIBERAL CATHOLIC C
H
U
R
C
H
To narrate in detail how this evil genius schemed, in conjunc­
tion with others, to receive valid Orders would require much space.
As the Liberal Catholic Church (L.C.C.) derives its Orders from
the Old Catholic Church (O.C.C.), a few words about the latter an
d
its introduction into England are necessary.
When the definition of papal infallibility was proclaimed a
t
the Vatican Council in July, 1870, Dr. Dollinger with Professors at |
Munich, Freiburg, and other teaching centers, protested against the
doctrine, and formed themselves into a separate body. They and
their deluded followers were excommunicated by the Holy See.
The German episcopate published the Decree of the Council in a joint
Pastoral in August, 1870. Having priests but no bishops, the anti-
papalists, now calling themselves the Old Catholics, got the Jansenist
Archbishop of Utrecht to consecrate Professor Reinkens as Old Cath­
olic Bishop of Haarlem in August, 1873. The Prussian Government
voted him a stipend of £2,400. He in turn consecrated Gerardus Gul
as Archbishop of Utrecht, in 1892.
gfO
U
flO
exodus
Ii
Mathe
and hi
the Ja
1
fewei
othei
Cat!
and
Hoi
bro
Mi
Se
Bi
2
5
“It had been thought that some Roman Catholic conereaatinns
m Great Britain were proposing to the Old Catholics,* and on these
f
V
84
the STORY OF a GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
grounds the consecration of Bishop Mathew took place. No such
exodus the Roman Catholics did follow,” writes Wedgwood.
In 1908, “a clerical megalomaniac,” named Arnold Harris
Mathew, who claimed to be de jure Earl of Llandaff of Thomastown4
and had been ordained a Catholic priest, got himself consecrated by
the Jansenist Archbishop Gul.
During four years and four months Mathew consecrated no
fewer than eight bishops: “His bishops left him and submitted to
other Churches as readily as did his priests.”
In 1910, Bishop Mathew broke off relations with the Dutch Old
Catholics and declared the O.C.C. in England to be an autonomous
and independent body. Bishop Mathew was excommunicated by the
Holy See in 1911, and on the Times publishing the sentence, he
brought an action for libel, which failed.
On hearing Mrs. Besant lecture on Theosophy at York in 1911,
Mr. J. I. Wedgwood, student for Anglican Orders, became General
Secretary to the T.S. in England. In 1913 he got in touch with
BishopJMathew, who ordained him priest of the O.C.C. on July
22nd. As some indication of one’s belief I sent him (the bishop)
a copy of Mrs. Besant’s T h e o s o p h y writes Wedgwood.
In 1914 three other ex-Anglican students, Gauntlett, Farrer, and
King, who were Theosophists, were ordained by Mathew, having
first signed a profession of faith in the One, Holy, Catholic, Apos­
tolic, Orthodox Church; in the Seven Sacraments; in the dogma of
Transubstantiation, and the other Roman Catholic doctrines. Doubt­
less they interpreted their solemn oath “esoterically.”5
At the same time an ex-Anglican curate named Willoughby
was ordained priest by Mathew (August 1, 1914). In September
Mathew stated that it was desirable that:
Immediate steps should be taken to preserve the valid
episcopal succession in our portion of the Church from
85
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
ride of loss. As you know, three of the Bishop* ^
c a r e d consecration for the express purpose of hohfoj a '
succession as a precious trust for our work hav*
to die Holy See.. . .
Willoughby received tea and Wedgwood six vote* T l .
by was ccnsecrated by Mathew at the BoD Inn, Bromlev. Knot,'
October 28, 1914.
In the a u tu m n Wedgwood went out to Adyar, Madras, “<*^
invitation of Mrs. Besant,” and the following year visited Leadbat^-
m Sydney.
In May, 1915, Mathew, having been furnished with hill det£s
of WiSloaghby’s expokioo from the Anglican Church, promptly ei-
pefied him from the O.C.C. Thai “we had all been requested 1
1
abjure our theoeophical tenets,’9says Wedgwood- Willoughby, &
hk expulsion, consecrated the TbeosopMsts King and Gaudier
bedhops on September 26, 1915. Wedgwood, on Ms return froma s
mdtatkm with Leadbeater, approached “four of those who had bee:
consecrated by Archbishop Mathew, also a certain Bishop Vents
Harford” to consecrate Mm, “but without success.” Finally he tamed
to die discarded WiBotighhy, who obligingly raised him to epeeopa.
rank, February 13, 1916, as first Presiding Bishop of the Libera;
Cathofie C hurch in England.
“A few month* later 1 was on my way to Sydney to take connefc
with C. W. Leadbeater. . . . He was consecrated bishop (by Wedg­
wood* on J«ly 15, 1916, having previously received conditional
baptism and confirmation and the earlier Orders, again condiiion-
afly, at my hands, writes Wiedgwood. “Having obtained tha sue-
ceation, he hastens off to Australia and passes it on to Bishop Lead-
heater, whose reputation is as unsavory as that of Willoughby *
writes 7>«M, July 14, 1920. Leadbeater was then sixty-nine and in
a harry to prepare a brand new Church for the new Christ, Ms D
U
D
i]
K ridbaaoih v r’“
86
t h e STORY OF a GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
Thus was the plot hatched at Sydney and A dyar com pleted to
capture the O.C.C. for Theosophy and the L.C.C. T hree m onths
after Leadbeater’s consecration, M rs. B esant w rote in The-
osophist (October, 1916):
There is slowly growing up in E urope, silently but
steadily, with its strongest center perhaps in H olland, but
with members scattered in other E uropean countries, the
little known movement called the Old Catholic Church,
with the ancient ritual, with unchallenged O rders, yet hold­
ing itself aloof from the P apal Obedience. . . . It is likely
to become the future Church of C hristendom “when He
comes.”
The “ancient ritual” was being carefully studied in Sydney by
their Lordships, Leadbeater and W edgwood, who set to work to
eliminate references to fear of God, to H is w rath and to everlasting
damnation, to constant insistence on the sinfulness and worthless­
ness of man, and to frequent appeals for m ercy.”6
Meanwhile Bishop Mathew had offered to join Rome or Canter­
bury. Although on January 8, 1916, we find his Lordship stating in
the Tablet: I make no claim to be recognized as a Bishop. . . . I
desire to conform in everything to whatever may be the commands
or wishes of the Holy See. * . . It is my firm resolve to obey the
commands of the Holy Father.” This extraordinary man, on A pril
19, consecrated a M r. W illiam s to be Bishop of “the Western Uniate
Catholic Church” ; and on July 2 sent a Mr. McFall, with episcopal
regalia, to evangelize the Irish.
“There is no existing Catholic communion, or Church, in which
the blend of theosophical mysticism and Catholic sacramentalism,
which is the Liberal Catholic religion, could find a home,” writes
F. W. Piggot, the present Regionary Bishop for Great Britain and
Ireland:
Liberal Catholics base their theological structure on
r^rtain age-long spiritual processes, the teaching of which
S h w S a im ia concealed within both Scriptures and Creeds.
87
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
W e offer to the world Pan-entheism, Evolution r*
births, E lder Brothers. ution-re.
To the Catholics of the L.C.C. type—redemption is
naturally bound up with the process of evolution, and is a
continuous process. The L.C.C. is probably the only Chris­
tian C hurch in which reincarnation is openly taught.
T he doctrine of the identity of God with the highest
self in each is not distinctly taught so far as we are aware,
in any other Church.
The difference between Christ and His less evolved
brethren is a difference of degree, not of kind. Our Lord
has not yet reached the end of evolution. The Liberal
Catholics do not see any need for reconciliation, or atone­
m ent, in the sense in which that need is stressed by Cath­
olics and Protestants alike. Miracles such as the Virgin
B irth and the Em pty Tom b are, in the view of Liberal
Catholics, of no doctrinal value., etc., etc.
On the Sacraments we have the following:
The L.C.C. recognizes seven sacraments. Auricular
confession is entirely optional and is not necessary for the
reception of the Eucharist. Most Churches teach that for­
giveness of sins is in some way a supernatural process,
but the truth is, this is not so.
Wedgwood’s investigations into the Doctrine of Intention-
Shows quite clearly that the intention to do what the
Church intends to be done suffices, and the idiosyncrasies
of personal belief (as in the case of the Reformers) do
not seriously intervene in the question of Orders.
Nevertheless, while the L.C.C. finds no adequate
reason to deny the validity of Anglican Orders, it insists
on conditional ordination, proceeded by conditional bap­
tism and confirmation of candidates from the Anglican
ministry, in order to safeguard the position of the L.C.C.
with other Apostolic bodies who do not recognize Anglican
Orders. &
In May, 19X9, Mrs. Besant returned to England to be
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
fronted with “a scandal more serious than those she had had to face
in the past.”
Of the six Liberal Catholic priests in London, four
were in difficulties with the police on charges of sexual
perversion. They had been mixed up in a raid on a no­
torious Piccadilly restaurant. One of them had made a
f confession not only involving the other three, but also
“Bishop” Wedgwood, who was at the time with Leadbeater
in Australia. . . . Gauntlett, one of the priests not involved,
was about to resign. . . .8
By Martyn, Head of the Esoteric Section of Australia, who was
in London, Mrs. Besant sent a message demanding Wedgwood’s
I resignation.
I Wedgwood retired till the clouds should roll by; and, “on a
I , beautiful estate in Holland donated by a Dutch widow, he established
headquarters of the Liberal Catholic Church, surrounded with young
priests and curates.”9 On her visit to Australia in 1922, she failed
to soothe the anger of Martyn and his 800 Theosophists, who had
II meanwhile brought grave charges against Bishop Leadbeater in re­
gard to boys in his charge. In consequence the police began to in-
) vestigate, but the outraged opposition would not bring the boys into
court against their aged tutor because of the resulting stigma in
after life. The Inspector General stated that sufficient evidence had
j been discovered to justify Leadbeater’s being kept under observa-
j. hon, and the Head of the Criminal Investigation Department re-
f ported: “I am of opinion that there are good grounds for believing
I him to be a sex pervert.”10
Truth (London) published scathing articles, called Leadbeater
J. “a horrible old beast,” and advised the Theosophists to drop the
“bunch of bastard bishops” overboard. In a Preface to Mr. Stanley
, SomeFruits of Theosophy, published in 1919,
1 Father Thurston S.J., wrote: . . . “it is impossible to contemplate
f without indignation this masquerading of holy things by characters
j ............................
1
89
HIAVA'Iwy Ht'MHl A . I
t/,
o i *vll iM
»," Unfortunate), th*character,<A I
n lirrn l fn the intervening ahtecn yrnr%, ' <Mv
# 1
A*ked by an interviewer, in I0i7' “fait ,
OM C atholic Church movement w ill he used j i n !** "
aft th e nu cleus of H is new religion ?” l**/ttZ .* W'/fM **** I
any rate, It ia there for him if He wishes to t >
hranch | of th e C atholic C hurch] w ill know Him and woti fm%i
putting itaelf w h olly Into Win hand* a* an brntrumeat v, U L i
at HU will”11 ^ 1
Meanwhile J,cadl>eater and Wedgwood were \my j&tU*
bishops# The fornnrr had consecrated six, and the latter vtvol «
preparation for Hi# coming, W ore KrUhnamurtl kicked over tfe
trace# in 1929.
I
Of the eight consecrated by Leadheater (who died in VPA
seven are arrive and one has resigned# Of Wedgwood’s erigbt :v;
to 1935) four have died. From the Table of Apostolic Success**,
printed in 1935, one gathers that there were then at least thirtex
bishops in the L.C. Church, four of them In U.S.A.
At the Camp meeting, held at Ornrnen, Holland, in 1925, cmaa
<rstate given the prospective Messiah by a Dutch Baron, Mrs. Besast
announced “by Order of the Master,” that the coming of the W
orld
Teacher being imminent, three movements would be launched, one
of which would he the World Religion. At the Camp meeting he
following year Mrs. Besant, “by Order of the King whom I serve”
(not Oeorge V), announced the names of seven of the twelve
Apostle# who would preach the New Gospel,
/
Krishoamurti, who had traveled the world over with his guard*
Ian and had repeatedly heard her announce him as the coming
Messiah, once again remained silent on that subject; but in May.
1929, at the annual Camp at Ojai, California, he seemed suddenly
to have come to the use of reason, for he said:
90
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
To those of you who are Star members, and to my
friends who are Theosophists it is all apparently very diffi­
cult. It is difficult because you have in your minds very
clearly defined who I am. You have been told who I am,
and you have been told what the manner of my teaching
will be, in what way I shall work, who are my particular
disciples, which movements shall be worked foremost. All
these are barriers to undertaking the Truth.
Strange language surely from the Head of the Order. Three
months later, and once again Ommen spread its tents for 2,500
members of the Star to hear their beloved Head. His printed address
entitled Dissolution of the Order of the Star by J. Krishnamurti
(Ommen, August 3, 1929), is before us. It was delivered after “two
years of earnest thought.” He does not want followers; “I mean
this. . . . Truth is in everybody.” He himself is “the whole truth
that is eternal. . . . I have decided to disband the Order as I happen
to be its Head. You can form other organizations and expect some­
one else. Why have false, hypocritical people followed me, the
embodiment of truth? Cold comfort for his deluded followers!
Annie Besant, then aged eighty-two, who had fought in court after
court, for the custody of this Brahman’s body, who had exhibited
him throughout the civilized world as the coming World Teacher,
the Lord Maitrya, the Lord Christ, made known to her and Lead-
beater by the Masters of Wisdom, the elusive Mahatmas, what
thought had she as she sat listening intently to the repudiation of all
her alleged Mahatma inspired plans? Eighteen years of ceaseless
planning, plotting, organizing, lecturing, writing, and for what?
The best laid schemes o’ Mice an’ Men
Gang aft a-gley,
An’ lea’e us nought but grief an’ pain
For promis’d joy.
Well the aged Astral Svangali, Leadbeater, and his Trilby,
Annie Besant, have both gone to their account, or their Karma, after
91
■ *UVAT,Ky' AM,
hall a century of futile r
,1.....
They have left behind t h a
—
11 m i . . 1 i l l I n t i ( i t i / t i t t r / n l . . . . . . ’ ’I
I
p.ti__. .. w
—
' "'ftuni nn nomine i/.M
*
rather Thuraton—“« Maanli*m«., i 7 M
■ | | . . * •"M pniw ioiih parody of ,.ii ,,
II()I(Ih ItlilMl M I I O P m A ** * th«(
*
oilc^hurch, with wlib:fi KV-inj;It/,ft';' ^ i
to d o , w h a t C atholic* ran Z „ 7 * M lU
Pi(i M mt , * , ; -n r*Hlmi it* nolhinu it,,, : 'N ■
r a th e r I h u r a l o n — i.i,_
_ i.____ . H tlu,n 4 n
\ j
IioMm most microd,”
»
*
//1
n |
' (1
t/f Biography of Annie Besant, G. M. Williams (1932).
sScc The Inner Life and The Christian Creed.
BThe Alcyone Cate: G. Narayanah V Annie Besant, Pp.248‘264.
N O TE: A full report of this case “certified to be a true copy” by G
, W
h
it*,
Second Assistant Registrar, Madras High Court, and dated April 13,1913, wu
published by Goodwin and Co., Madras. The correspondence between A
.B
.
and C.W.L. would never have reached the public had it not been that in mis­
take Mrs. Besant handed to the Prosecution a bundle of letters of which fall
and damning use was made during the trial. Our quotations are from The
Alcyone Case and its exhibits.
^Interesting and astonishing details of the career of Mathew will be found in
Some Fruits of Theosophy (1919) by Stanley Morrison.
«See Truth (April 14, 1920). “The Mantle of Archbishop Mathew”; (June 9,
1920), “Bastard Bishops” ; (July 14, 1920), “The Old Catholic Bifurcation.”
°The Liberal Catholic Magazine, p.78 (1938). “The whole thing seems to be
nothing more than a particular obnoxious humbug, resulting in the foundation
of a bastard church by a bevy of illegitimate bisnops (Truth, June 9, 1920) ”
7Sce The Liberal Catholic Magazine (February, March, and April, 1938); and
The Parting of the IFays, F. W. Piggot (1925).
8See The Passionate Pilgrim, XXV, 820-327.
vThe Passionate Pilgrim, p.323.
101bid, p.326.
11Quoted in Some Fruits of Theosophy, pp.49-59, from Theosophy in Australia.
92
¥
CHAPTER X
In this final chapter the Pantheistic doctrines of
Theosophy-Karma and transmigration of souls are
explained and extracts are given from a correspond­
ence between Cardinal Newman and Professor Rhys
Davids, the foremost spokesmen of their day for
Christianity and Buddhism. Proof is given to show
that Christianity is in no way beholden to Buddhism
for any part of its doctrine or ritual.
THEOSOPHY AND CHRISTIANITY
Strong and persistent attempts are being made to intro-
duce into Europe the doctrine of rebirth or transmigration
of souls. This doctrine is bound up with that of relentless
retribution, or the so-called Law of Karma.
—Dr. J. P. Arendzen.
i . Pyery Christian teacher and minister ought to inform
himself of the true nature of the poisonous anti-Christian
system; for attempts are being made in many places to in­
troduce it [Theosophy] into the Church (Protestant).
—Dr. J. M. Farquhar.
The chief doctrines which the pantheistic compound called
Theosophy has to offer the Christian in exchange for the doctrines
of Christ and His Church, will be the subject of this final chapter.
These doctrines are: the identity of God and man; Karma and
Transmigration of souls. At bottom they are but clumsy adaptations
of Buddhistic and Hindu tenets, transformed in such wise as to be
generally unacceptable either to orthodox Buddhists or to Hindus.
Mrs. Besant states that the secondary teachings of Theosophy
are such as are common to all religions, living or dead, to wit:
the unity of God, the triplicity of His nature, the descent
of the Spirit into matter, and hence the hierarchies of in-
Ill.AVA’I'KKY, III',SANT AND <*>,
the growth of *
telligencies whereof humanity in one;
ity by iho unfolding of consciousness ana the cvolutir"
bodies, i.a., Reincarnation; the progress of this uu, a
under inviolable law, I,ho law of cuusulity, ix., Karma**ik1
ma; the
hynical,
environment of thil growth, tho throe worlds
iihIiuI, and mental, or earth—tho intermediary world, and!
heaven; the existence of Divine Teachers, superhuman m
en.*
Again Mrs. Besant writes that the community of religious teach­
ings in all the world’s religion,
arose from a Brotherhood of Divine Men, which sent out
one of its members into the world from time to time to
found a new religion, containing the same essential verities
as its predecessors, but varying in form with the needs of
the time, and with the capacities of the people to whom the
Message was sent.3
Further, she tells us that “the nature of God and man are
identical.”8 Mrs. Besant, it is well known, was a clever juggler of
words. But where on earth, one may ask, dwell those savage tribes,
unknown to anthropologists, who believe the doctrines indicated
by Mrs. Besant? Where are these Jewish, Christian, and Moham­
medan communities who believe in and teach Pantheism, Reincarna­
tion, and Karma? Where dwell Jews, Parsees, and Moslems w
ho
believe in and teach the triple nature of God, or deny His Personal
nature? Sinnett assures us that “no such conception as that of a
Personal God enters into the Great Esoteric Doctrine of nature.”
Mme. Blavatsky speaks for Theosophists: “We reject the notion of
a Personal God—the God of Theology is a bundle of contradictions.”5
Mr. W. Kingsland believes that “the idea of a Personal God is too
anthropomorphic to he entertained by any rational man today.”6
Much of this Thcosophist writing is as unbalanced and exaggerated
as that of Mme. Blavatsky. Leadbeater, clairvoyantly reading the
Etheric Record, discovered that we “are evolving fragments of His
life.”—(the Solar Deity) ; that the head of the Department of Re­
ligion is a Great Official who “either comes Himself or sends one of
94
tH E STORY OF a GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
H
is pupils to found a new religion when needed” ; that the Great
W
hite Brotherhood is an august body of Adepts, who, having fin­
ished their training, generously remain on earth to help humanity
onthe road of evolution” ; that a few of these Masters take appren-
tices_ “one such was Madame Blavatsky, who had resolved to de­
voteherself to the service of mankind” ; that the Etheric doctrine is
still kept alive in our midst by the Masters, and their teaching ex­
poundedanew by chosen souls like Sinnett through H.P.B. and A.B.
through C.W.L. himself.7 Leadbeater occultly discovered that Jesus
w
as bom a century earlier than history, Jewish and Christian, re­
lates. For these occult “finds” Sinnett tells us proof cannot be given
' by anYprocess of reason.” Of course many of these alleged occult
( sources are in reality but accommodated copies of esoteric teaching
| brought as charges by Gnostic heretics against the early Christian
Church, and have been refuted by Irenaeus, whom Tertullian, his
contemporary, styles “the most diligent searcher of all doctrines.”
There is little doubt that although the term Disciplina arcani
(Discipline of the Secret) came into prominence in the controversies
of the seventeenth century, the custom which the term indicated was
, itself very ancient. It was an observance introduced towards the end
of the first, or early in the second, century by which Jews, infidels,
and catechumens were excluded from some ecclesiastical ceremonies
I and from the knowledge of certain mysteries of the Christian re­
ligion. Only the faithful were allowed to be present at the Mass,
and special secrecy was imposed with regard to the doctrine of the
Trinity and the Real Presence. But this discipline was departed from
on occasion, as we learn from Justin Martyr’s apology to Antonius
Pius, where the doctrine of the Real Presence is fully exposed be-
, cause that doctrine had been greatly misrepresented by the pagans.
But that this custom of concealing from all but fully fledged converts
the full exposition of Christian doctrine was “confined to a chosen
few” and never imparted to the ordinary Christian is false, as a
passage—one of many—from Theodoret, which reflects the custom
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
of the Church in his time, abundantly proves. He writes- “W
in obscure terms concerning the Divine “mysteries” on accoun
the uninitiated, but when these have withdrawn, we teach the ' •
tiated plainly.”8 That there was not an esoteric doctrine in the Chr‘
tian Church akin to the “mysteries” of the heathen, is the testimon
of history and the belief of all except Theosophists with an axeto
grind on the whetstone of credulity.
If we use ordinary scientific canons of judgment, and
not “occult” methods, we must decide that Theosophical
history is as trashy in its matter as it is habitually vulgar in
its literary style. Only the travesties of ancient heresy or
modern pseudo-history have imagined an opposition be­
tween exoteric and esoteric Christianity.9
KARMA AND SAMSARA
Both the doctrines of Karma and Samsara are borrow ed by neo-
Theosophy. The doctrine of Karma (literally, action; as a doctrine
it is the inevitable working out of action in new life ) is a peculiarly
Aryan and Indian belief, according to Professor Keith,10 and is un­
known to the Reg Veda. It is first met with in the B rihadanyaka and
Chhandogya Upanishads, in the third period of Sanskrit literature,
about 500 B.C. Therein it is said that as a man sows, so shall he
reap—in another life. The idea of Karma is that a person’s birth,
station, character, capabilities, experiences, sorrows, and happmess
all form the just recompense for good or bad in earlier existences.
Men’s deeds, or Karma, are said to be the cause of the existence of
evil; and every act, good or bad, begets other acts, good or bad, or
Karma, good or bad, and so on ad infinitum. As fast as the clock
runs down, remarks Deussen, it winds itself up again. Karma is the
law of the phenomenal world. Human life, the Hindu believes, will
go on forever; and Karma, its moral system, is eternal. The one end
of the whole process is self-repetition, not evolution. Thus to the
Hindu a man’s caste is held to be an infallible index of the state
of his soul, caste being the natural outcome of the doctrine of Karma
and Transmigration.
96
th e STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
Samsara (Metempsychosis, Transmigration, Reincarnation) is
possibly derived from totemistic clans, who believed that after death
a man became like his totem—a tiger, an ox, a serpent, etc. Karma
and Samsara, woven into the texture of Indian thought, whether
Buddhistic or Jainistic, were incorporated in the Darsanas, or
Schools of Hindu Philosophy, and to this day have impregnated the
P* Indian mind with the virus of an enervating fatalism. In the domain
of morals Karma has been likened to the theory of the conservation
; of energy in the domain of science. Were Karma true, life would be
eternal, as in fact the Hindu believes it is. Unlike Buddhism, Jain­
ism, and Hinduism, Theosophy confines transmigration of souls to
human beings.
*
Now, Karma is the bait used to attract proselytes to Theosophy.
I No Christian may accept it. “It is appointed unto men once to die,
and after this the judgment.”11 This, too, is the belief of the greater
part of the human race. It is not easy to understand why the multi­
tudes in every country and period have not kept the slightest recol­
lection of their former existences; or why, if evolution is continuous,
men in each new life have to wait until their mental and physical
faculties have reached that stage where their development was ar­
rested by death before continuing their evolution. Indeed, the fact
of death itself cannot be accounted for logically on Theosophical
principles. Why should death take place at all? On these principles
all non-pantheistic religions must be judged to be in error. Although
it is alleged they Rave been founded by Adepts, they have nothing in
common with Theosophy.
In Theosophy and Christianity (S.P.C.K. 1922) M. Carton
Sturge states that “the Theosophic doctrine of Transmigration does
not necessarily militate against the central doctrine of Christianity.”
This no Catholic can accept. That Reincarnation cannot be proved
false by mere reason is quite another thing. On this subject Cardinal
Mercier writes:
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
. . . It seems difficult to dem onstrate by unaided reason
that the end of man’s probation will necessarily coincide I
with the last moment o f this life, and this explains why
some people imagine that the soul passes through more or
less lengthy series of existences, or successive reincama-
tions in which it is able to become m ore perfect. . . . All
that can be said for this theory o f reincarnation is that
there is not a single positive argument in its favour.12 t (
Instead of being a system of retribution, Karma becom
es a
system of vicarious punishment of a very extreme type, as Father
Ernest Hull, S.J., the veteran Indian missionary, pointed out incon­
troversy with a learned Hindu:
It is repugnant to reason and common sense to transfer
the merit and demerit from one life to another, unless the
lives have full continuity and unity of consciousness be­
tween them, just as it would be to punish a man in delirium
for some act done in that state while the continuity and
unity of his consciousness was interrupted. For it is es­
sential that the deed and the consciousness should belong to
the same conscious being. Therefore, it is unjust of The-
osophists to declare that should I be bom a cripple, mat
affliction is a punishment for bad deeds in a previous life
of which I am wholly unconscious. A physical consequence
it may be of parental carelessness or sin, but I cannot be
held morally responsible for that. . . . As an attempt to
furnish a satisfactory solution to the problems of life and
human destiny, Theosophy is, of all attempts hitherto made
by the human mind, a most preposterous, a most perverse,
the most demoralizing, and the most unredeemable we have
ever met.18
The plan to capture Hinduism and Christianity for Theosophy
has singularly failed. Neither India, England, nor any other country
is one iota the better for the half century of occult investigations
of Blavatsky, Besant, Leadbeater and Co., and their chelas at Adyar.
To science, literature, and history their voluminous writings have
been of no service whatever. The Theosophical Society renders a
98
)„ I ^ story OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
> • disservice by filling the heads of its ordinary members with
t I J,e transcendental, cosmological, and historical rubbish and worth-
less trash it publishes as Divine Wisdom, and its defense of super­
stitions which thoughtful Hindus are anxious to get rid of.
In his book on The Religions and Hidden Cults of India, Sir
i, George Macmunn remarks that the influence of Theosophy in India
i a I “
is no doubt due to the countenance it gives to the ethics of Indian
)e
f idolatry.”
i Theosophy detaches religion from God. Instead of a Heavenly
Father it offers an Unknowable It. Prayer, the Theosophist is told,
is useless. To pray to Christ for help is considered moral idleness,
) degrading to human dignity,” says Mme. Blavatsky. The Gospel
stories of our Lord and the Gospels themselves are condemned as
unhistorical. Jesus could not suffer for others, for the law of Karma
knows no exception. On Mrs. Besant’s assertion that “man must be
J hls own savior and redeemer, and can have no other,” her friend
Stead commented convincingly long ago:
r ere *
Sn° no^e which vibrates more constantly in the
j ®
ou 01 every true man—and the truer he is, the more it vi-
I brates—than the prayer of the Publican: “O God, be merci-
I j ^0 me, a sinner.” That despairing cry rises from the
deepest and innermost recesses of our being. It Ends an
I answer in the story of the woman taken in adultery, in the
parable of the Prodigal, in the death of the Crucified. To
that heartfelt cry, I do not find an answer in Theosophy. I
find, on the contrary, an almost exultant assertion of the
opposing doctrines, that God is not a Being with a Father’s
heart; that for sin there is no expiation, and for the sinner,
no pardon.14
By the soulless law of Karma, Divine mercy is impossible, re­
pentance and prayer are useless. “Karma makes the Universe a
machine; Christianity, the manifestation of love.”15
Esoterical and allegorical explanation of the outward facts of
Christianity are marked characteristics of Theosophical writers, and
99
b (/,
HKY, HUMANr AM,
alleged coincidence of events in the jjv<„ i, , ,,
w rnm <W„ by them a. copy!,,*......,, ? 7 -
"«t«ns of the Co<u«l >
« it,, „ , ** w
we hi
lave grtrul rapect f„r th« nurture it! '.T T l
like Max MBIIw, Hhy, David., Hoplin., Gough,
who have »|«r,t a lifetime in the iUldy of the literal,,,,. ,ain '
India. A pawagu or two from l'rof,w,r 1(1,y, |j,vid» will da,. 4,
in reality there ia neither coincidence nor
hy C hristianity, hut that, on the contrary, later Buddhism i* joddJ
to C hristianity:
I cannot M ictc that the Buddhist Iraflitififin had any
influence at ail over Christian belief. It in much more likely
that the later Buddhist writer* were influenced hy Nestoruui
and other Christian missionaries,, , , 'Hie resemblances be-
tween tin#two account# are often very striking at first bight,
hut they are shown hy tfa; slightest examination to rest on
a has/# of belief quite contradictory/ Thus the Buddhist#
did not ascribe to Gotama any divine birth in the Christian
sense, , #, Wfieri Buddhism arose the Hindu# believed in a
Great f irst (iause, in whom and by whom all things exist.
< , , The Buddhist# established no connection between their
Master and this Being. , , , “Buddha came to earth to re­
deem tfie world/’ The exprettion (to redeem the world)
cannot be found, a# far a# I am aware, in any Pali Sutta.
- . . And it i# only to the Pali Sutta# that we can go for any
evidence of Buddhist expressions actually used to describe
events in Cotama’s life, , . , The Chinese and other ac­
count# are all post-Christian. . . , It is in these hooks (or
rather m the English phraseology of our particular trans­
lator of them) that the supposed Christian phrases are
usually found, , , A7
This extract is taken from a correspondence between Cardinal
Newman and Professor Bbys Davids (through the intermediary of
Mr, W, S, LillyJ, which took place in 1882. Newman was “startled”
by Lilly in an article in the Nineteenth Century “granting so much
to Ikidditum” The letters which passed between the two foremost
100
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
okesmen for Christianity and Buddhism occupy about thirteen
' pages of Lilly’s The C laim s o f C h ristia n ity (1894), and should be
carefully studied by any Christian going East of Suez, even on a
pleasure trip. In E arly B u ddh ism (1907, chap. Ill) Rhys Davids
enlarges, by apt comparison, upon the judgment contained in the
last sentence quoted:
/ If an Eastern scholar desired to ascertain the fact
about the life of Christ, he would not have recourse to such
works as Klopstock’s M essiah or Milton’s P a ra d ise R e­
gained. They do not even purport to be historical. Such
value as they have is due to the literary skill with which
they recast a story, derived from earlier documents; and,
perhaps, also to the part they play as T endezens-christen, as
supporting a certain trend of opinion. The historical en­
quirer would go to the original documents; he would ig­
nore tihe later poetry. It is, unfortunately, precisely such
ater books of edifying poetry that have been the source
of modern popular notions about the life of Buddha. Sir
Edwin Arnold s well known poem, T h e L ig h t o f A sia , is an
elegant expression in English verse (based upon the Lalita-
vistara) of Buddhist beliefs, at a time when, centuries after
the time of Buddha, the Sanskrit poem was composed. Any­
one who wishes to know the truth, as far as it can be ascer­
tained about the actual events of the Buddha’s life, will ob­
viously ignore these productions, however edifying, of liter­
ary imaginations. He will go to the earlier documents. The
first discovery he will make is that there is no book in the
Buddhist Canon exactly corresponding to a Gospel.
In his Life of Buddha (1927) Dr. Thomas devotes a chapter to
the discussion of alleged parallels between Buddha and Christ, and
remarks that in proportion to the investigator’s direct knowledge of
the Buddhist sources the number seems to decrease. He, like Max
Muller, Rhys Davids, L’de Vale Poussin, rejects all borrowing. “I
shouldbe extremely grateful,” wrote Max Muller, “if anybody would
point out to me the historical channels through which Buddhism had
influenced Christianity. I have been looking for such channels all
BLAVATSKT, MUAMT A * h < j,
m j life, hot hitherto I hare found none,^
if Buddhism had penetrated into Judea ard *
*e t*
before the coming of Christ, are ire to r
opposition of the two religions?” And fVde»*or ^ **"**
that Buddhism is absolutely ignored in the litem >-^
cal remains of Palestine, Egypt, and Greece.
Pierre Loti concludes an account of an interr*** ^
• ^ flP>' jlC^ity j<
1903, with the leading lights of Theosophy, at Adya/, », ^ ^
fnl library **ihat stood by the river among strange trees ^ ,
A heaven with no Personal God, an immortahtr » ^
out a separate soul, and purification without praytr—pen
was the formula that rung in my ears in the ttoiasafum
silence that followed oar conversation.1
*
And it is for such a freak religion, begotten of frausi fcj y
»
fiction and miscalled TH E0S50PH /A , tin* zgftiii farina,
leads no man knows whither, that Europeans and SxtnxnzzA wt
k iite d to barter their heritage of Christian troth
1 7 1 g M iddle o f L ife mud H em Theosophy Answ ers It, pp.\-2.
^Theosophy, p ,R
xF trisrii«m , p u li.
*Esoterie Buddhism, p2Sfl.
*LLey to Theosophy, pJSJL
*Tke herd H . P . Blenetsky,p 2 Z (19281.
'S»e The Christian Creed; T est Book o f Theosophy; and Esoteric Christiaan;
^paoeaL, XV is K n .
*C C. ItiiiTiwiilf, Theosophy, p.lOQ (1928).
w 3 » (1909).
»<Hdk fhOT.
^M am m d o f M odern Scholastic Philosophy, YoL 1, S o . 171.
t*T h eoospkf end C hristianity (repainted from T h e Bombay Pathetic E x a m in e r .
■ysXfh. £2L 127.
'**H osiers o f B eriesrs, VdL JV, p. 367.
**Anmdom, What becom es o f The D ead, ppSEA&t.
K a u sa » i Escderie B asis o f C hristianity.
**The d aunt of C hristianity, p p h h b . CnSeatnosteAy th is work is loan out si
fdfm
fM
o
-t/o d ta , W hat Con I t Teach V s? V ote and foreword
h*£*jode sans U s A ngles. Hout P.
102
THE STORY OF a GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
i
APPENDIX
To understand the following “ Confession” the reader
should remember that it is one of the letters Madame
Blavatsky sent to V. S. Solovyoff, her one-time friend and
countryman. This letter was written to Solovyoff, a dis­
tinguished man of letters, after M adame discovered that
he would not “come in” and be a party to her phenomena.
Its object was to prevent Solovyoff from exposing the
frauds he had discovered her practicing; it was also a
veiled threat of blackm ail. The authenticity of this “con­
fession” letter has been vouched for by Madame Blavat-
sky’s sister, Mme. Jelihovsky. See Note 5 on page 24.
103
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
“ MY CONFESSION”
“ I have m ade up my mind [doubly underlined].
H as the following picture ever presented itself to your
literary im agination? There is living in the forest a wild
hoar— an ugly creature but doing no harm to any one
so long as they leave him in peace in his forest, with his
wild beast friends who love him. This boar never hurt
any one in his life, but only grunted to himself as he
ate the roots which were his own in the forest which shel­
tered him . There is let loose upon him, without rhyme or
reason, a pack of ferocious hounds; men chase him from
the wood, threaten to bum his native forest, and to leave
him a w anderer, homeless, for any one to kill. He flies
for a while, though he is no coward by nature, before
these hounds; he tries to escape for the sake of the forest,
lest they bum it down. But lo! one after another the
wild beasts who were once his friends join the hounds;
they begin to chase him, yelping and trying to bite and
catch him, to m ake an end of him. W orn out, the boar
sees that his forest is already set on fire and that he can­
not save it nor himself. W hat is there for the boar to do?
Why, this: he stops, he turns his face to the furious pack
of hounds and beasts, and shows him self wholly [twice
underlined] as he is, from top to bottom and then falls
upon his enemies in his turn, and kills as many of them
as his strength serves till he falls dead— and then he is
really powerless.
“ Believe me, I have fallen because I have made up
m y mind to fall, or else to bring about a reaction by tell­
ing all God’s truth about myself, but without mercy on
m y enemies. On this I am firm ly resolved, and from this
day I shall begin to prepare myself in order to be ready
104
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
/ will fly no more. Together with this letter, or a few
j bours jater, I shall myself be in Paris, and then on to Lon-
I j0IL A Frenchman is ready, and a well-known joumal-
?1
’ ! ist too, delighted to set about the work and to write at
‘d my dictation something short, but strong, and what is
(e most important— a true history of my life. I shall not
8 » grew attempt to defend, to justify myself. In this book I
t shall simply say: In 1848, I, hating my husband, N. V.
i 1 Blavatsky (it may have been wrong, but still such was
the nature God gave m e), left him, abandoned him— a
virgin (I shall produce documents and letters proving
this, although he himself is not such a swine as to deny
I it). I loved one man deeply, but still more I loved oc-
I C
l^ science, believing in magic, wizards, etc. I wandered
with him here and there, in Asia, in America, and in
I Europe. I met with So-and-so. (You may call him a
I wizard, what does it m atter to him ?)
1 In 1858 I was in London; there came out some
story about a child, not mine (there will follow medical
evidence, from the faculty of Paris, and it is for this that
I am going to P aris). One thing and another was said of
me; that I was depraved, possessed with a devil, etc. I
shall tell everything as I think fit, everything I did, for
the twenty years and m ore that I laughed at the quen
dira-t-on, and covered up all traces of what I was really
occupied in i.e., the sciences occultes, for the sake of my
fam ily and relations who would at that time have cursed
me. I will tell how from my eighteenth year I tried to
get people to talk about me, and say about me that this
man and that was m y lover, and hundreds of them. I
will tell, too, a great deal of which no one ever dreamed,
and I w ill prove it. Then I will inform the world how
suddenly m y eyes were opened to all the horror of my
105
BLAVATSKV, t S S A H
T A.Vo r/j
m oral suicide; how I was sent tto America
psychological capabilities. How I collected *
ry fry
there, and began to expiate my fault*, and *»,*
make men better and to sacrifice for *
*
'
eration. / wu// n/ime a// the theosophists wh*. „ i
5n»rt A - .___j _____i__ j . j , were brought
as ineosopmsis, and continued their lormer life a* thouid
they were doing the work (and there are many of them;
and yet were the first to join the pack of hounds that were
hunting me down, and to bite me. I will describe mam*
Russians, great and small— Madame S—among diem.
her slander and how it turned out to be a lie and a calum­
ny. I shall not spare myself, I swear I will not spare; /
m yself w ill set fire to the four quarters of my native
wood, the society to wit, and I will perish, but I will
perish with a huge following. God grant I shall die,
shall perish at once on publication; but if not, if the mas-
ter would not allow it, how should I fear anything? Am
I a criminal before the law? Have I killed any one.
destroyed, defamed? I am an American foreigner, and
I must not go back to Russia. From Blavatsky, if he is
alive, what have I to fear? It is thirty-eight years since
I parted from him, after that I passed three days and a
half with him in Tiflis in 1863, and then we parted again.
Or M-------? I do not care a straw about that egoist and
hypocrite! He betrayed me, destroyed me by telling lies
to the medium Home, who has been disgracing me for
ten years already, so much the worse for him. You under­
stand it is for the sake of the society I have valued my
reputation these ten years. I trembled lest rumours,
founded on m y own efforts fa splendid case for the psy­
chologist%for Richet and Co.) and magnified a hundred
106
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
might throw discredit on the society w hile black-
* 2 ? me I was ready to go on m y knees to those who
helped me to cast a veil over m y p a st; to give m y life
and all my powers to those w ho help ed m e. B ut now ?
Will you, or Home the m edium , o r M — , or any one in
the world, frighten m e w ith threats w hen I have m yself
resolved on a full confession? A bsurd! I to rtu red and
killed myself with fear and te rro r th at I should dam age
the society— kill it. B ut now I to rtu re m yself no m ore.
I have thought it all out, coolly and sanely, I have risked
all on a single card— all [tw ice u n d erlin ed ] ; I w ill snatch
the weapon from m y enem ies’ hands and w rite a book
which will m ake a noise through all E urope and Asia,
and bring in immense sum s of m oney, to support m y or­
phan niece, an innocent child, m y brother’s orphan. Even
if all the filth, all the scandal and lies against m e had
been the holy truth, still I should have been no worse
than hundreds of princesses, countesses, court ladies and
royalties, than Queen Isabella herself, who have given
themselves, even sold them selves to the entire m ale sex,
from nobles to coachm en and w aiters inclusive; what
can they say of m e worse than that? A nd all this I m yself
will say and sign.
“No! The devils w ill save me in this last great hour.
You did not calculate on the cool determ ination of des­
pair, which was and has passed over. To you I have
never done any harm whatever, I never dream t of it. If I
am lost I am lost with every one. I will even take to lies, to
the greatest of lies, which for that reason is the most
likely of -all to be believed. I will say and publish it in
the Tim es and in all the papers, that the ‘master’ and
‘M ahatm a K . H .’ are only the product of my own imag­
ination: that I invented them, that the phenomena were
107
BLAVATMCY, SEJANT AND r / j
all more or less spiritualist!/; apparition*,, auA \
twenty million spiritists in a body at my back 7*
that in certain instance# 1 fooled people* 1 v, ) * '•'*
/
dozens of fools [underlined twice], de* ludhu:uu.
say that I was making trial for my own satisfa**' */
the sake of experiment. And to this I have been \ <
by you [underlined twice]. You have been the last
which has broken the camel’s back under its iot»jVr>
heavy burden.
“ Now you are at liberty to conceal nothing,
to all Paris what you have ever heard or know about rr*
I have already written a letter to Sinnett forbidding kir,
to publish my memoirs at his own discretion. I mybdf
will publish them with all the truth. So there will be the
itruth [underlined twice] about H, P, Blavatsky,’ in which
psychology and her own and others’ immorality and
Rome and politics and all her own and others’ filth once
more will be set out to God’s world. I shall conceal noth-
ing. It will be a Saturnalia of the moral depravity of
mankind, this confession of mine, a worthy epilogue of
my stormy life. And it will be a treasure for science a*
well as for scandal; and it is all me, me [underlined
tw ice]; I will show myself with a reality [underlined
twice], which will break many, and will resound through
all the world. Let the psychist gentlemen, and whosoever
will, set on foot a new inquiry. Mohini and all the rest,
even India are dead for me. I thirst for one thing only,
that the world may know all the reality, all the truth.
and learn the lesson. And then death, kindest of all,
H, Blavatskt.
“ You may print this letter if you will, even in Russia.
It is all the same now.” 1
108
THE STORY OF A GREAT ANTI-CHRISTIAN FRAUD
Of this “Confession” Dr. W alter Leaf, the translator
I of Solovyolfs works remarks: “ The authenticity of the
letters has in no case been impugned, and in the case of
* the “Confession” has been explicitly adm itted by M adame
Jelihovsky herself.”2
I
Modern Priestess of Isis pp. 176-181.
2M.PJ. ix. The reference is to the letters printed in M.P.I. Mme. Jeli-
>
■ hovsky, the sister of Mme. Blavatsky.
II
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS
Just how far the human mind can wander from sane
ogic, once it has rejected common-sense principles about
truth and its attainment, is best illustrated by the religion
of the Theosophists. There has been in recent times a re­
vival of this cult. Theosophical lectures are frequently
advertised in large cities; theosophical books appear now
and then that create quite a stir; and various theosophical
“schools” claim large numbers of followers.
The fundamental principle of theosophy is the notion
that its adherents have a special power—not that of reason
or experience or any of the other means of human knowl­
edge— but a special power by which they simply know
secret forces of nature, the great central power of the
109
BLAVATSKY, BESANT AND CO.
universe, and mysterious things about man. There is no
proof of this power given; no evidence possible for the
truth of the knowledge it brings them, because it is knowl­
edge of secret, hidden, mysterious things that ordinary
men cannot know. They simply state that they have that
power; other men are to believe them.
By means of this so-called power, the theosophists
claim to know that every individual is merely a Divine
Spark passing through one incarnation after another. In
other words, I who live today am not living for the first
time; this may be my hundredth or my thousandth reincar­
nation; before this one, I may have been a horse and a dog
and a beetle and an elephant and a crippled child, etc. I
am a Divine Spark wending my way through these various
reincarnations or bodily existences towards perfect unity
with the absolute. That is the goal of all life: there is no
heaven or hell; there is only final unity with the absolute
in which personality is lost, but not individuality. (Do not
feel grieved if you can’t make sense out of that; that’s the
theosophists’ secret: saying things that do not make sense.)
A favorite word of the theosophists is karma. Karma,
they say, is what you started and did not finish in a pre­
vious existence, and therefore it is the thing that causes
you to be what you are in this existence: or, as they put it,
your karma is the effect of what you did or did not do in
your previous existence, which determines what you are
now. If you are crippled now, that is because of some­
thing bad you did as a horse or some other creature.
110
These few statements of the theosophists are sufficient
to show its absurdity. It presents no grounds for its
claims to secret and mysterious knowledge; and that
knowledge itself is full of fantastic follies for which there
is not the slightest shred of evidence. . . . But men who
have abandoned all sound religion and philosophical truth
seem not to mind its absurdity.
D onald F. M ille r, C.SS.R.,
E ditor The Liguorian.
I l l
