{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__drown___theory_and_technique_of_the_drown_hvr_and_radio-vision_instruments.pdf","mytitle":"Theory And Technique Of The Drown Hvr And Radio-vision Instruments","mylang":"de"}
The
THEORY AND TECHNIQUE
of the
DROWN H.V.R. and
RADIO-VISION INSTRUMENTS
By RUTH B. DROWN
VOLUME I
First Printing 1939
Published by Drown Laboratories
1358 No. La Brea Ave.
Hollywood, Calif.
Dedicated to all
doctors who are
willing pioneers
in the true
advancement of
the healing art.
RUTH B. DROWN.
Contributors to this Volume:
Dr. DAVID R. PEARL
Dr. GLADYS SHUTT
Dr. LAZETTE A. WEAVER
CONTENTS
PAGE
INTRODUCTION 9
CHAPTER
I. AN EXPLANATION OF THE H.V.R. DIAGNOSIS
AND THERAPY (PEARL-SHUTT) - 15
II. MAKING A " BLUE PRINT " OF THE BODY
(DROWN) - 27
Ill. ENDOCRINOLOGY IN l\IODERN PRACTICE, COR-
RELATED WITH THE DROWN SYSTEM OF
DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT (WEAVER-
DROWN) 33
IV. PROCEDURE IN RuNxrnG A BtooD COUNT,
MAKING A t'RINALYSIS, CHECKING TEM-
PERATURE, BLOOD PRESSURE, IMPINGED
NERVES AND DIET (DROWN) 102
V. CHECKING THE "BLUE PRINT" WITH ORGAN
AND GLAND SUBSTANCES (DROWN) - 108
VI. RADIO-VISION AND ITS THEORY (DROWN) 111
VII. CASE HISTORIES -
VIII. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
116
131
LIST OF PLATES
RUTH B. DROWN
H.V.R. OFFICE MODEL
Frontispiece
FACING PAGE
32
RADIO-VISION PHOTOGRAPH OF DUODENAL ULCER,
TAKEN FROM BLOOD SPECIMEN, COMPARED IN SIZE
AND SHAPE WITH PHOTOGRAPH OF CHRONIC PER-
FORATING ULCER -
RADIO-VISION PHOTOGRAPH OF A DISEASED PROSTATE
GLAND LOBULE, TAKEN FROM BLOOD SPECIMEN,
COMPARED WITH PHOTOGRAPH OF HISTOLOGICAL
64
STRUCTURE OF A PROSTA]'E GLAND LOBULE - 96
THE DROWN RADIO-VISION INSTRUMENT - 128
Copyright, I939, by Ruth B. Drown
9
INTRODUCTION.
The age of the healing art wherein the patient was
given remedies and chemicals of the earth and water
has now advanced another step, and has entered into the
air cycle-conforming to the advent of the radio, tele-
vision and wireless.
Many facts proving polarity and atomic ·attraction
have been brought to the fore in the scientific world.
The combination of the ethers with the denser materials
of the earth not only is .evidence of the law of cohesion,
but shows also that we live in a world of opposites, which
in themselves are actually the same thing, separated only
by degrees.
The long and the short wave radio are being em-
ployed in many ways in addition to the transmission and
receiving of sound. In the Drown work they have been
brought into use not only to heal the physical body, but
also to photograph soft and hard tissues within that
living body.
The purpose of this book is to help the doctor with
the use of the instrument, correlation of his diagnosis,
and treatment. In order that he may have a broader
understanding and knowledge upon which to base his
findings, the true foundation of life is touched upon.
Very ancient writings deal almost wholly with the
rates of :vibration of all things pertaining to the mental
and physical world of mankind. It is impossible to
diagnose and treat the physical body without relating it
to the mental. After two years of using our radio
instruments,. we found in the deeper study of ancient
wisdom amazing and satisfying corroboration of our own
development of rates of vibration. These will be dis-
cussed later with reference both to our instruments and
to that ancient knowledge.
It has always been our contention that there is only
One Energy acting upon One Substance. In other words,
all substance is a precipitation of this Energy, even as
ice is the precipitation of steam. Steam is a certain rate
of vibration, and as its vibration slows down it ultimately
forms ice.
IO Introduction
If we were able to hear this form as well as see it,
we would know that the change in the rate of vibration
of the molecules which eventually make the ice also
results in a change in the sound, for a sound emanates
from the bombardment of molecules one against the
other when they are drawn together in what we call
'' substance.''
The change in the rate of vibration of energy to faster
or slower creates a corresponding change in its sound
rate, and if our range of vision were extended beyond
normal we could also perceive different colours issuing
forth as this difference in vibration continues. When
chords are struck on a piano, each note, if we could see
it, would be found as distinctive in its colour vibration as
in its sound vibration, and yet the l;tarmony produced
gives still another sound, or one that includes all the
notes struck simultaneously.
In the Drown Therapeutic Instruments each dial is
an octave, each number a note; when these notes are
combined properly the rate of vibration from the human
body passing through them in resonance selects only
certain parts of that body for a speeding up or lowering
of energy (as the case may be), using the Life Force
which is normally trying to pass through its own channel
to promote health.
Thus, in our diagnosis, when we find certain rates of
vibration of the body lower or higher in function than
the average normal, we select that part for normalization,
and the animating Life Force or Light of the body does
the rest.
In modern research laboratories it has been found
through dissection, vivisection, and all other means
known to science, that the body actually has been formed
through a process of unfolding from what man has known
as the three germ layers.
After it has taken normal shape according to its species,
each body consists of essentially the same type of
organism, such as liver, lungs, kidneys, skin, eyes,
teeth and bones. Whether that part is found in animal,
fowl or man, the structure is practically the same. For
instance, in general science we study the structure of the
Introduction II
liver cells and tissue in the chicken, the pig and the dog,
that we may recognise it in the human. We analyse the
normal so that we may know the difference between it
and the abnon:nal.
Therefore we must accept this as foundational and
assume that a liver, which is identified as such by all
physical signs, microscopic and otherwise, necessarily is
made up always of the same type of atoms and molecules.
As a result, its general activity as a liver gives forth a
certain rate of vibration. If it ever ceased to be a normal
liver, there would be a distinct change in these atoms
and molecules. This would throw it out of balance, or
into a state of dis-ease. Naturally we would say that it
had degenerated and disintegrated, and was no longer
performing the function of a liver. Therefore if we
tuned into it with our diagnostic instrument, we would get
only a rate of vibration for that part which was function-
ing as a normal liver, for the remainder would not register
as such.
We are compelled to recognize that since there is only
One Energy, this Energy in its different precipitations
creates a constant and continuous action. It is known
that '' Life is conditioned in motion and stagnation results
in death." Therefore life must be a constant activity,
the lack of life resulting in so-called death.
We are asked, "But what has the animal or human
rate of vibration to do with this?''
The _vibration of all physical bodies of the earth, and
all other parts from the earth side of Energy is essenti-
ally the same magnetically, but the animating Life
Force, taken from the ether side, or the individual Life
or Radiant Energy, is entirely different. This is the
Energy that creates individuals in all phases of life, and
it is the amount of Life Force (which is an invisible
light, passing through the brain, the nervous system and
the blood vessels) which animates all these bodies, mak-
ing one human being healthy, and another, through its
lack, in· a state of dis,.ease.
In the pictures taken with our Radio-Vision Instru-
ment we can see in the blood vessels little globules of
I2 Introduction ·
light. We have made many photographs which show,
first, the blood vessel, then a turn in it revealing a
globule;· this indicates that the blood is travelling in
round globules and not in a steady stream, as it appears
to be. The form of its flow can be duplicated by placing
a globe of ga3 between two short wave diathermy pads.
Hence in our particular method we not only have the
body to work with, but we must go back and learn about
the Energy which animates that body. If an individual's
total body energy is being used and this is continually
charged with wrong thought and feeling, how much can
be accomplished in the way of healing? Sometimes it is
necessary to convince patients that they themselves cause
the inharmony which manifests in their bodies.. The
Life Force is so vital that it creates everything; disease
manifests when the patient qualifies it destructively.
In trying to " awaken " him into the realization of
what the Life Force is, and what it means to the body,
his illnesses should not be dwelt upon, as by so doing
these are continually being generated. If our minds
could always be kept on the Perfection that is coming in
through their bodies we could help these patients,
although of course in diagnosing we must know enough
of their history and manifesting conditions to understand
where to treat, and also how to tie this up with their
mentality.
It must be our endeavour to try to bring these people
back to their balance so that they may go on to accom-
plish whatever they have to fulfill in this world. Many
an individual has been set thinking by letting him know
that the great Scheme of Life is made up of each one in
his own place, and that through attempting to express
his Divine Self into the outer world as near perfection as
possible, he will also learn what he has to accomplish.
There is something definite for everyone.
Each of us is to the Greater Body of Humanity the
same as each· little cell is to our own body. If any cell
is out of harmony, dis-ease results, and other cells around
it are affected. It therefore follows that if any individual
is out of harmony with the Scheme of Life, dis-ease
results to the Greater Human Body.
Introduction 13
When there is much inharmony in any part of the
world, nature must come in and clear things up. This is
brought about through wars and strife. Wars have
always been generated through the inharmonies of man-
kind, and everyone in the countries where these upheavals
take place is forced to suffer for this. Even children
have helped, in some other life, to· generate that con-
dition in which they find themselves here. If the Law
is true. in one place it must be true in all places.
This applies also to our bodies. As physicians, and
with the use of the knowledge we are all trying. to attain,
we have taken upon ourselves the responsibility of
endeavouring to maintain a state of harmony in order
to assist others to that condition in which they can be
of help in the Great Plan; to teach them that it is their
responsibility to keep their particular cell, or themselves,
as nearly harmonious as possible, so that they may not
be destroyed with those others who have not seen the
light, and have added to the inharmony of-the world.
It is necessary that patients understand what they
have done to bring about a dis-eased boay in this great
Scheme of Life. They should realize that they cannot
express health and harmony without helping to bring
harmony to the Great Body. They are responsible to
Life for that thing-responsible .not only to those they
love, but to the greater Plan of Life as well.
The time must come when we will have an institution
in which every worth-while phase of the healing art will
be represented. There is no therapy, no method of
healing, that should be done away with in its entirety;
all should be incorporated where necessary.
When we realize that we are dealing with this Life
Force, it teaches us about ourselves. It is the thing we
must learn before we can attain mastery of the Laws of
Life. We are all working towards it. If by construc-
tive means we can help anyone who comes our way, we
will have accomplished that much towards the perfection
of the Great Body, and assisted it to gain its freedom
sooner.
THE THEORY AND TECHNIQUE OF THE DROWN
H.V.R. AND RADIO-VISION INSTRUMENTS.
Errata
Page 102, 6th paragraph, should read:
The color index is obtained by multiplying the number of
erythrocytes by two, dividing the haemoglobin percentage by
the first two figures of this product, and subtracting this
result from roo. (The haemoglobin percentage is estimated
by reaction on the instrument: thus if .3 is found on the
ninth dial the haemoglobin is 30 per cent.
Page 104, line 19:
For: In making the urea count
Read: To obtain the urea percentage
Page 104, line 25:
For : the area count
Read: the urea percentage
Page 106, paragraph commencing on line 7, should read:
To determine the diastolic pressure place the diastolic rate,
40-9-0-r-4-9 on the first six dials. Start measuring on the
eighth dial. If on this dial the registration is 8 and on the
ninth dial it is 5, the diastolic count would be 85. Subtract-
ing the diastolic from systolic gives the pulse pressure, the
normal being between 43 and 65. The seventh dial is not
used in diastolic reading.
Page 106, last line:
For: the complete rate bei~g go-6-3-2-r-o-o-r-o
Read: the complete rate being 90-6-3-2-r-o-o-r-r
Page 107, paragraph commencing on line 5, should read:
Begin at r on the eighth dial and r on the ninth dial and
work down to zero.
IS
CHAPTER I
AN EXPLANATION OF THE H.V.R.* DIAGNOSIS
AND THERAPY
Lectures Given by
Dr. David R. Pearl, Westwood Village, Los Angeles
It has been my experience that there are two things
one must keep in mind in studying the Drown work.
The first is that it is necessary to become as thoroughly
familiar and as nearly in tune as possible with the theory
and philosophy behind it. That is, one cannot think of
yesterday and do the work of to-day. We must be in
harmony with this system of tuning in to the Infinite.
Yet many of us will not turn on the dial of Life
whereby we may become in tune with the Creator. There
is some of the Creator in each of us. It is to be seen in
everything that lives and grows; it is the activating Force
which makes things what they are.
It is that Force with which we are dealing in this
therapy. We must tune into it and work with it, in
order to get into the right tune or harmony.
The second requisite is to know the instruments
themselves-to understand them, what can be done with
them, and how they operate. With a machine, one
turns a dial or presses a button, and the electricity does
the rest. On the Drown Instruments we are tuning into
a vital force, therefore we must handle them carefully
and accurately in order to use them to the best advan-
tage. They are delicate, and must be worked with
accordingly. If we can do that, and see why we are
doing it, good results will follow. But if we are merely
carrying out routine procedure, not thinking right, not
knowing why we are taking a certain course, we will not
get as good effects as if we understand the philosophy
and theory back of this work.
* Homo-Vibra (Man-Vibration) Ray.
16 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
Such an understanding gives the proper insight, and
by learning the use of the instruments and how to apply
the theory in practice, we will see that we can go far
beyond our anticipation. We will want to incorporate
this system of diagnosis and treatment into the general
scheme of things in our practice. We will find out how
it will fit in, and what we can do with it.
Perhaps to some extent a number of you may have
the experience I had the first year. When I took the
instruments into my office I felt that I would select
certain cases which had not been getting along very well,
and use the Drown Instruments to augment what I was
doing. But I have found out since then that one does
not have to choose certain cases. Any case that comes
into the office, any kind of condition, will certainly show
improvement under the Drown Instruments if the
diagnosis is correct and treatment is applied intelligently.
Yet in fitting these instruments into our practice we
must not forget what is good in the things we have used
in the past. For instance, we must consider diet-see
that patients eat and live correctly; employ methods of
manipulation if necessary, to free circulation and nerve
impingements, and normalize the machinery of the body.
And by using the instruments to clear up the molecular
disturbances back of this, we will find that we have a
well-rounded-out scheme of therapy. We will discover
that it is not the tail wagging the dog; it is more like the
dog wagging the tail.
The doctor working with these instruments will have
no doubt as to their accuracy. Within the past few
years various ones have been made which generate radio
waves. The radio short wave diathermy generates heat
in certain parts of the body. The closer tuning it gets,
the better effect it has on the patient.
The Drown Instruments have exact tuning, for the
simple reason that neither electricity nor artificial heat is
used-nothing but the patient's own vital force or
energy, amplified and carried back into the body. If we
are operating the instruments properly we cannot get off
the tuning.
Suppose we make a mistake in diagnosis. In that
Explanation I7.
event we would not be directing the energy properly into
the part desired; when we diagnose and treat correctly
we get the exact tuning. Even if the right lung were
treated, when the trouble was in the hip, the treatment
would only send the Life Force into the lung. It would
do the hip no good, but would do the lung no harm.
There is another safeguard. If we make a diagnosi5
of a certain condition with the H.V.R. we do not pick
up another type of instrument with which to treat. We
e~loy the same .one with which we made our diagnosis,
or one like it, and use the same rates for treatment. So
again, we are I!Otrunning the chance of getting out of
tune, which might happen with a piece of machinery
that. is electrically or battery-charged and operated.
The method of diagnosis and treatment should be
taug);it a little slowly. I find in my work that if I learn
a small amount at a time, and get that very thoroughly
from day to day, keeping in mind that I am assimilating
the theory back of it, it is better than to attempt too much
at once. When one has finished a thirty-day course he
has a very good conception of this method, and should
be able to apply it intelligently.
We should never make a decision on a case without
a thorough diagnosis; with every patient we should find
out definitely what is wrong. Otherwise we cannot hope
to .get good results in treatment.
The following may be of interest and give the doctor
confidence: A patient who had a psoas abscess was im-
proving, but not as rapidly as she felt she should. She
insisted on an X-ray picture. I requested the laboratory
to show all the psoas muscle. When I saw the picture,
for a moment it lo.oked odd to me. I had the patient
send a blood sp~cimen out, and Dr. Drown took a photo-
graph with her Radio-Vision Instrument. It showed a
clear-cut pathology in the muscle structure, indicating
that there had been a psoas abscess which was under-
going a process· of healing.
In tuning into the energy of this and getting a scan-
ning effect on the photograph, one could see the inside
cell structure, and note where the scar tissue was crossing
B
18 Drown H.V.R. and Radio-Vision
the muscle strand, producing the trouble of which the
patient complained.
In addition to treating a specific condition, we do
whatever else is possibl~ to help each individual patient.
For instance, we find that in a diseased area of the lung
or kidney, a weakening of the chain somewhere is a
diagnostic factor which nine times out of ten will be
found in the wheel of endocrine glands. Therefore we
must go back of the localized trouble and normalize the
function· of the glands in the body, whose -dysfunction
has made it possible for the lung or kidney to become
diseased. We should always be sure we are getting the
proper tonicity of tissue and glandular control.
To repeat-the results obtained in this work are in
ratio to accuracy in diagnosis. So-don't think yester-
day, think to-day.
Lectures Given by
Dr. Gladys Shutt, Topeka
The Drown Method and the Drown Instruments have
as their basis the fundamental principles of chemistry
and physics-those laws and facts having to do with
substance and molecular activity; with vibration and
vibratory waves; with radio-active ethers and radio-
active bands of energy and energy-carriers; with light
and light activity within the cell nucleus; with cell
division and replacement; with glandular and organic
function and with tissue structure. All these are known
facts and truths upon which a scientific world operates,
and all are acceptable to a scientific investigator.
The first principle involved is that of the molecule
and its activity. Scientifically we know that all sub-
stance has its form by virtue of its molecular arrange-
ment. Investigation has demonstrated that the molecule
is the basic.;mass-form upon which all substance having
shape is built. To be sure, scientists have broken the
molecule electrically into the smaller particles of atoms,
chemicals and ions, but these are not mass-forms. Hence
the molecule is the accepted mass-structure unit.
Explanation 19
The shape or form of a substance is directly depend-
ent upon the arrangement and variation of the millions
of molecules which compose it. Thus the substance of
wood differs from that of cloth; earth from water; flesh
from metal; one wood from another; one metal from
another; one tissue from another. Every recognizable
form assumes that form because of the molecules of
which it is composed. It has a definite arrangement
peculiar to itself, and differing from all others.
For instance, the chemical molecules in the air be-
come a form of substance which we recognize as rain;
with a different molecular arrangement of those self-
same chemicals we have, instead, snow; still another,
and we have sleet; .another, and we have hail; vet an-
other, and we have steam or mist. But the chemical
content has remained identical throughout.
Thus when we note differences in mass-substances we
are virtually recognizing them by their variations in
molecular arrangement. When we look into a micro-
scope arid say, "This is kidney tissue, this is liver,"
etc., we are identifying them not only by their form
and their structural tissue, but also by their molecular
variations.
In addition, we know that these molecules are in
constant motion, adhering together by some force not
defined by science but generally acceptable if termed
the " Life Force " which animates that "ubstance and
which, when no longer present, allows it to disintegrate
through a molecular separation and alteration in the
mass-form. We are told that the result of motion is the
production of energy. Therefore this energy produc-
tion would depend upon the motion of molecules and
their arrangement, and would vary as the form varies.
For instance, the energy emanating from the activity of
liver tissue would be different from that of the kidney,
thyroid, stomach, pancreas, pituitary, or any other tissue
of the body.
When we recognize one form as varying from others
we are likewise recognizing it by its difference in energy
production.
Since science has demonstrated that a substance
B2
20 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
composed of moving parts will vibrate in accordance
with the motion of those parts, just as a motor car
vibrates according to the slowness or rapidity of motion
of the parts comprising the engine, then these various
substance forms, these tissues, will have a vibration rate
directly proportional to the molecular activity compos-
ing them, just as distinctive to those tissue forms as the
arrangement of their molecules or the energy produced
by them-and just as peculiarly their own.
Thus under the laws of vibration each individual has
a rate of vibration distinctive to himself. Each organ,
gland and tissue has its own vibration rate as well.
Hence the ~netgy emanating from every tissue does so
in vibration'wave-lengths peculiar to that organ or tissue,
and in proportion to the vibration of the tissue as set
up by the molecular activity within it. Consequently
our bodies are virtually a composite of many
"dynamos," constantly creating energy, constantly
sending out wave-lengths according to each dynamo's
pattern of activity.
\Ve know that any dynamo continuously creating
energy must have an outlet, a " ground," or it will
explode from its own energy creation. With the advent
of radio and knowledge of radio-active principles, we
find that the '' ground '' for these dynamos of ours is
the same radio-active ether which penetrates all sub-
stance; which passes through the walls of a house and
brings to a radio sound-energy from Little America, or
from any other part of the world; which carries energy
in wave-lengths on radio-active carrier bands about the
earth. This same radio-active ether penetrates the body
substance and carries off the energy in wave-lengths
emanating from the tissues, returning it again after en-
circling the earth with the speed of light (seven and
three-quarter times per second).
Just as a commercial radio '' tunes in '' on wave-
lengths of sound-energy sent out from a commercial
broadcasting station, so could a radio instrument, cali-
brated to " tune in " on wave-lengths of radio-active
energy sent out from our tissue '' broadcasting ''
stations, act by means of proper dialing as a receiving set
Explanation 2I
of that energy for the reception of the various wave-
lengths. The Drown Diagnostic and Therapeutic Instru-
ment does just this.
It is so constructed that the operator is able selectively
to tune in to the various organs, glands and tissues of the
body and receive each patient's specific wave-length.
Then, by precise tuning, the degree of variation in that
wave-length reception from the normal point can be
determined; and the degree of variation in function of
that tissue, as well as the variation in energy production
and molecular activity can be interpreted.
Invading organisms and diseased tissue formations
have their own molecular arrangement ; their presence
in the body tissues may be detected by tuning in for their
particular frequencies in the same manner. Hence the
physician using the Drown Method has accurate facilities
for differential diagnosis as well as for functional chart-
ing of organs, glands, tissues and systems of the body.
To be sure, the Drown Instrument is an instrument,
not a machine. It is not meant to supplant the
physician's brains nor substitute for them. Its use, like
that of the stethoscope, must be combined with wisdom,
thoughtfulness and knowledge. The doctor must b, able
to interpret his functional findings in the light of their
possible effects on organic function and pathological
developments, and with those possibilities in mind pro-
ceed to differentiate between them by using the instru-
ment for detection of their presence or absence. The
greater his knowledge of anatomy, symptomatology,
physiology, histology, pathology, etc., the better diagnos-
tician he becomes and the greater his field of usefulness
with this instrument.
In the same way that the operator tunes in on the
various body functions and diseases, he can tune in on
remedies for the elimination of those disease vibrations
and the causes producing them. Homeopathic
physicians, particularly, have found the Drown H.V.R.
Instrument invaluable because of its accuracy and exact-
ness in checking homeopathic remedies both for potency
and polarity in the dissipation of those disease reactions
received in the instrument.
22 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
It cannot be too greatly stressed that tb.e individual's
own body energy is the only force or current used by
the Drown Method in diagnosis, remedy selection or treat-
ment; that no commercial electricity is connected in any
way with the diagnostic instrument. Were this tm-
ployed, it would be wasted, for it would not find its
own rate of vibration in the body. In addition, the flow
of human energy would be obscured to such a degree that
the patient would receive only a portion of the treatment
that he would have were he to treat with his own body
energy unhindered.
By '' body energy '' we mean the electro-magnetic
force which is generated by the activity of the molecular
arrangement in any particular tissue, combined with
the energy produced by the combination of minerals and
fluids in the body, these together forming a current similar
to that of a dry cell battery.
Work with the Drown Radio-Vision Instrument has
showed this energy to be in the nature of light (an in-
visible white ray just above the white light in the
spectrum, as infra-red is below the spectrum), since it
can be registered on photo-sensitive (light-sensitive)
films or plates by the direct scanning developed from the
wave-lengths of tissue energy. This invisible.light energy
is received in its own frequencies on the diagnostic instru-
ment, and any deviation from the normal wave-length
can be noted and measured.
Other vibration wave-lengths are eliminated when
dials are set for the reception of a wave-length from a
particular part of the body or a specific disease. If this
disease is present, it is broadcasting incessantly and when
we tune in for that frequency we receive the '' broad-
cast." If it is not present, even though we have dialed
for this frequency we receive no broadcast of anything,
since the frequency has been '' assigned '' to the one
molecular arrangement alone. Complete blood counts,
urinalyses, checking of the various systems and of im-
pinged nerves, as well as temperature, blood pressure
and diet may be made in this manner. Each blood cell,
each cell constituent of the urine, etc., has its own mass-
form and therefore its own frequency, and can be
accurately measured.
Explanation 23
For diagnosis, the patient places his feet on the foot-
plates attached to the instrument. By this action the
course of his energy, carried on radio-active ether in its
flow towards ·the earth, is drawn into the instrument,
passing towards the ground from the foot-plates; the
operator, manipulating the various dials and moving his
finger, covered with a rubber finger-stall, over the
detector on the instrument, is able to tune in to these
vibrations selectively. This is made possible by the fact
that when the lower vibratory wave-lengths of energy,
such as are found in diseased or lowered-functioning
parts (which energy is negative to the total body energy)
meets the positive energy or flow of electrons from the
operator's hand, a direct short is noted in the detector.
Thus by introducing varying resistances with different
dial changes, the operator shifts from one wave-length
reception to another, from one organ, gland or tissue to
another, and dete1mines the deviation in reception from
normal.
While the above is the usual arrangement for
diagnosis, it is also possible to carry this. out with the
patient hooked up for treatment.
The diagnosing instrument has nine dials. These,
unlike the banks of dials used on other instruments,
correspond to the keys of a piano. On a piano one
begins with the base notes in the first octave. Similarly,
the first dial of the Drown H.V.R. deals with the base
rates of vibration, those of disease. These are slower,
due to the fact that they are vibrations of some impinged
energy-production channel of the body. When such im-
pingement occurs, the energy there no longer vibrates to
the rate of the total body energy, but sets up a lower
vibration of its own and becomes disease energy. The
other eight dials on the instrument are attuned to the
body vibrations in octave· arrangements. The various
dial settings determine the selective tuning of the different
wave-lengths.
Under the Drown Method the physician has an
accurate and detailed picture of function, and the possi-
bility of unerring diagnosis. I say " possibility,"
because it must always be remembered that the Drown
Instrument is an instrument, not a machine. Diagnosis
Drown H.V.R. and Radio-Vision
" by guess " can be entirely eliminated from the field of
therapy throughout its intelligent use. It is a definite aid
to every physician.
But when we have made an accurate diagnosis with
this instrument, what then can we do about it? What is
the Drown Method of Treatment, and wherein does it
vary from others?
It differs in that its whole program is constructive,
since it begins with the basic principle of all mass sub-
stance, which has three divisions-the vibration rate, the
activity of the tissue itself, and the Life Force contained
within the nucleus of the cell. Treatment by means of
this instrument is entirely a formative, stimulating pro-
cess. It concentrates on rebuilding tissue activity by
inducing the production of new, healthy, normally
vibrating cells which gradually take the place of the
abnormal disease formations.
In treatment, the patient's body energy is used in this
way: he is put into a complete hook-up with himself
through the use of the foot-plates, which act as the
cathode, and an electrode of block tin (usually placed
over the solar plexus), which acts as the anode. His
polarity is reversed by sending his body energy out
through the electrode into the instrument through the
different rates of the body areas found by diagnosis to
be unbalanced; the energy returns to the body again by
way of the feet.
In treating, the total body energy is utilized rather
than the specific organic or glandular tissue tunings set
on the instrument in diagnosis. The body energy,
travelling as it does in the various wave-lengths of the
tissues, is merely intercepted on its way about the earth
on radio-active ether bands; it is concentrated in toto
in the instrument and re-directed to the various organs,
glands and tissues of the body in the wave-length of
normalcy for that part.
Set for treatment, the dial banks on the instrument
assume the role of control of wave-lengths through
resonance, thus either " stepping up " or lowering the
vibration of the particular organ or tissue, just as the
vibration of a tuning-fork or piano-string is " stepped-
Explanation 25
up " (or retarded, as the case may be) to harmonize
with the wave-length of that energy being sent against
it in the experimental laboratory. As the vibration of
a tissue is altered, so, likewise, are its molecular activity,
energy production and function changed.
How is this accounted for physiologically? As has
been pointed out earlier, the energy which activates our
tissues is in the nature of light; it has the speed and the
qualities of light. A common experiment of the biology
laboratory is that of sending a beam of light against a
one-celled organism and.noting the effect of that beam
in intensifying the activity within the nucleus of the cell
until cleavage of cell and cell nucleus finally takes place.
The -application of this scientific fact answers the
question as to what occurs under the Drown Method.
We have a beam of light-a " radio beam," if _you
please-being sent into the tissue in the wave-length of
that tissue itself. Through the process of metabolism
and cell division constantly going on in the body,
accentuated in the structure into which the body energy
is being concentrated, the new cells will come in at the
higher rate of vibration and the diseased cells will auto-
matically fall away. Since like poles repel and unlike
poles attract, cell division obviously takes places when
the invisible light (positiye in its polarity) strikes the
positively charged nucleus of the cell. Abnormal disease
vibration can no more continue to exist in normally
vibrating tissue than light and darkness can exist in
the same spot.
Here one point must be made clear. In diagnosing,
we wish to receive the energy emanating from the disease
formation itself, and we deal with that alone. In treat-
ing, however, the disease energy is not sent back into
the part in its own vibration, even though the dial
settings are the same as those found in diagnosis.
Instead, the reception of the total body energy is localized
through the treatment hook-up; the dial setting is the
means of localizing the area into which the energy is
sent.
For instance, even though we find tuberculosis of the
lung in diagnosis, and utilize that same dial setting for
26 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
treatment, we are following a pattern, first, of localizing
the energy reception in the lung by tuning into that lung,
and second, of further localizing it there by specifying
the tubercular tissue of the lung for reception of the
energy wave-lengths which will cause stimulation and
rehabilitation. We are not shattering the diseased tissue
in a concentration of its own rate, but intensifying the
rebuilding process of cell division in that particular area.
Through this process, the normal will exclude the
abnormal of its own accord, and a healthy state will be
created.
These facts are scientific, acceptable, authoritative,
backed by laboratory and clinical proof, and based on
known experiments and conclusions.
27
CHAPTER II
MAKING A "BLUE PRINT" OF THE BODY
Lectures Given by
Dr. Ruth B. Drown,
H. V.R. Journal, March, 1932
Is thorough diagnosis too much trouble? To this
question, the average physician who is conscientious and
has knowledge of his work will respond with an emphatic
" no," but the one who has skimmed over the surface,
working only for his degree and not for the knowledge
he can gain, will answer in the affirmative.
Yet in the last analysis the patient really settles the
question, for he will have confidence in and remain with
the doctor who is skilled, and will leave the one who is
not.
This, in our opinion, is why we have patients coming
to us continually who have been to as many as thirty or
forty physicians all over the world, and who have found
that the detailed diagnoses delivered to them through our
work have uncovered the obscure conditions which pre-
viously seemed so difficult to locate. We, too, would
have found the matter difficult were it not for the use of
the H.V.R. Instrument. -
In some cases we have brought to light a condition
previously discovered by another doctor, yet this same
condition proved to be only a part of the whole trouble.
Consequently, because of the unusual accompanying dis-
turbances, the patient was not relieved of pain and
distress when treated.
In one such instance, a physician in England dis-
covered what appeared to be diabetes, and accordingly
gave his patient a diet. (From this diet we knew his
diagnosis.) However, we found not only the diabetes
but also uncovered the fact that at its base was a tuber-
cular condition of the islands of Langerhans in the tail of
the pancreas. An additional factor in the trouble we
28 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
discovered to be psoas abscess. We located two such
abscesses, one on each side of the body. These had
affected both hips to the degree that the patient was
hardly able to walk.
We brought to light other resulting conditions and
even causes. Had previous physicians on the case dis-
covered all these, they would have been able to aid the
patient. Inasmuch as they did not help him, we are
compelled to conclude that they did not get to the root
of the trouble, because he was healed under our treat-
ment.
We are continually being questioned by dodors as to
the correctness of our diagnosis. We are also constantly
being checked by the laboratories, which procedure we
welcome. However, it is interesting to note how easy it
is to find the laboratory technician himself at fault, for
on occasion there will be nothing in the patient's con-
dition to back his findings. In this case, the laboratory
results could not possibly be of benefit.
We do not say that the laboratory, which seems to be
the standard of diagnostic findings, is not of great assist-
ance in diagnosis. Yet after all, we are still dealing with
the human agent, and the percentage of possible mistakes
caused by lack of care in order to facilitate speed is so
great that were one to do the work himself he would
soon lose confidence in the laboratory reports.
Too often the physician in the field neglects the fact
that everything must verify a report. He usually
accepts it at its face value and does not think further.
He is not altogether to blame, for as a rule he has many
cases on his mind. But that is all the more reason why
he should go carefully into the diagnosis of each. Unless
he does, he will lose about one-third of his patients, for
these constitute the obscure cases.
We should be inclined to double this estimate were it
not for the fact that many times in such instances the
doctor's past experience, combined with the help of the
patient, will enable him to arrive at a fairly clear idea
as to the seat of the trouble.
It is our definite opinion, after being examined
thoroughly on our work by many physicians, and at the
Making a "Blue Print"
same time examining the knowledge oI other doctors,
that it is the one who has an open mind, who is con-
scientious, scientific, keenly thorough and always ready
to learn, who will accomplish the most and as a result
will keep the largest number of patients.
Many times doctors who have looked over our de-
tailed diagnosis sheet have commented, " It is too much
trouble to go through all that." But we have never had
a reaction of this sort from a physician such as we have
described above. He knows the value of thorough,
scientific diagnosis.
H.V.R. Journal, February, 1932
Obviously, a complete and scientifically accurate
" blue print " of the condition of a· patient's body is of
inestimable value to the doctor. This it is possible to
obtain with the H. V.R. Instrument, since it may be
tuned in to any part of the body for measurement of
function and for disease. In fact, measurement of
function of the glands and organs in the body is the
fundamental basis on which a diagnosis with this
instrument is built.
In testing with the H.V.R., the first step is therefore
to register the function of these various organs and
glands, also of the blood vessels and the nervous system.
A differential blood count is then made, followed bv a
urinalysis. Ip addition, blood pressure, temperature,
impinged nerves and· diet may be checked on the instru-
ment if desired. This gives a complete ground-work for
procedure in diagnosing disease.
If the physician has a true case history, much time
and labor is saved at this point through the process of
elimination. It would be utterly impossible to check
through the entire Atlas for every disease in each
instance.
A true case history also aids the physician to eliminate
reactions he may obtain through certain disease rates
which may not be that specific disease itself, but some
other condition of a lesser or lower rate of vibration
registering through that particular rate. Since the
H.V.R. is not calibrated so finely as the human body,
Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
there may be other rates very close to the known so-
called disease rates, the lesser coming through the
greater. The principle of this is the same as in the case
of two radio stations sending on wave-lengths very close
to each other. One station is heard distinctly, while the
other seems farther away but can still be heard.*
Certain doctors attempted to check the accuracy of
the H.V.R. by sending the same blood for diagnosis
under two different names, giving part of the case history
with one specimen and the other portion with the second.
The blue print of functions of the organs and glands
obtained with the instrument in both cases proved almost
identical, the only difference being a variation of I/ IO
or 2/ro in some instances. This would naturally have
followed, since the diagnoses were made at different
times. However, the disease found in the first case
differed entirely from that tabulated in the second (al-
though they were not incompatible), since the case history
of one caused the operator to look for certain conditions,
and that of the other prompted a search for entirely
different troubles. While both could have been found,
it would have necessitated a complete checking through
the Atlas in each instance, without proper utilization of
the case history by the operator.
It is quite essential to know the symptoms, age, weight
and height of the patient, whether he has undergone
operations, the children's diseases he has had, and the
possibility of congenital diseases in the family. It is
always desirable to know the blood pressure in order
that the doctor may check this with the findings of the
instrument.
Unless the physician chooses to work blindly, it is
just as important to have the above facts in diagnosis
with the H.V.R. Instrument as it is in making any
diagnosis. Incidentally, if the doctor works blindly, he
usually does not know how to correlate his diagnosis
after he has finished. The scientific ideas which he has
* This point is proved by the photographs made with the
Radio-Vision Instrument. In these pictures, other tissues show
besides that into which the instrument has been tuned-but
appear less distinct.
Making a "Blue Print" 3r
gained in all his past training should be applied in con-
junction with the use of the instrument, for the two are
not at variance.
The instrument merely does away with the guess-
work necessitated by diagnosing by the methods of symp-
tomatology. In addition, the physician finds out the
condition actually existing in the body in life. The
importance of this is self-evident, since every doctor
realizes that the body undergoes many changes at death.
The post-mortem does not always reveal its state as it
was in life.
As an instance of the value of a true diagnosis and
the use which may be made of the H.V.R. Instrument
by the physician, the following case is given:
Patient came in with high blood pressure. Urinalysis
showed a slight alkaline reaction, which may have been
due to some drug taken for the blood pressure condition.
The latter, according to the patient, varied from r40 to
r50 systolic, and .from roo to no diastolic. No cause
had so far been found for this abnormal condition, we
were informed.
A check-up with the H.V.R. Instrument showed that
the kidneys were functioning normally, or nearly so.
The interstitial tissue of th~ left kidney seemed to be
normal, but that of the right registered only 2/ IO.
(Normal registration with this instrument is 8/IO aver-
age, IO/ ro high normal.) Contracted kidney came
through as the disease here, showing the presence of
inflammation at some previous time.
A questioning of the patient as to whether there had
ever been any severe fever, or any other illness that
might have created such inflammation, brought out the
fact that the appendix had ruptured a year or so before,
with so much resulting pus that two operations were
necessary to drain it. This condition had evidently
caused much trouble in the intertitial tissue of the right
kidney, and revealed the vascular obstruction respon-
sible for the load upon the heart.
The heart was found to be dilated, both ventricles
showing hyperfunction. Both the coronary arteries and
the heart muscle registered one-half normal capacity.
32 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
The systolic blood pressure came through at 145 on the
instrument, and the diastolic at roo.6, which conformed
closely with the history given of former findings.
Who would normally have diagnosed the trouble as
that of the interstitial tissue of the kidney, when it did
not show up in the urinalysis? The patient stated,
incidentally, that urinalyses made in other laboratories
had showed about the same results as ours. We might
add that we made our anlysis by two methods-one, by
the general laboratory procedure, the other by means of
the H.V.R. Both were done from the urine sample and
results were almost identical.
H.V.R. Office Model.
33
CHAPTER III
ENDOCRINOLOGY AND TREATMENT METHODS
IN MODERN PRACTICE, CORRELATED WITH
THE DROWN SYSTEM OF DIAGNOSIS AND
TREATMENT
Lectures Given by
Dr. Lazette A. Weaver, Los Angeles, California, U.S.A.
This chapter has been assigned to endocrinology and
its importance in the Drown System of Diagnosis and
Treatment. We place the endocrines at the beginning
of our diagnostic chart because, directly or indirectly,
they are the very base of all trouble in the body.
Practising physicians are familiar with the study of
the endocrines, but in the Drown work we approach the
subject from a little different angle. In this system,
everything is based on the law of energy and vibration.
Consequently, the first thing to be .learned is that each of
these endocrines, or its individual lobes or parts, have
their own particular rate of vibration.
We find also that every gland, or its separate
divisions, have a normal standard of function, for if the
gland has energy and vibration, it means that it is active,
as that is the " Law of its Being." Then we must be
able to tell whether it is functioning normally or ab-
normally-producing health or disease. To that end,
through many years of earnest research, exact numerical
rates have been worked out, plus a standard rate of
normal function for each gland, organ, tissue, etc.,
through the entire body, comprising a most complete
Atlas.
When the doctor is diagnosing a case, it is of great
assistance to be familiar with all the possibilities in this
Atlas, and an exhaustive study of it is recommended. It
is not necessary to set oneself the definite task of learning
all the rates at once. With use, these will gradually fix
C
34 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
themselves in the mind. But to know what the book
contains is invaluable for quick and ready reference.
The glands are so important as a foundation for the
Drown Method of Treatment that not only do they come
first in every diagnosis, but they are normalized first in
every treatment for better results in other parts of the
body which need balancing.
One by one we shall take up the various endocrine
glands, showing their importance to each other and to
the body as a whole. We shall study them from the
standpoint of physiology or function, chemistry,
pathology and clinical findings. In all this we are
endeavouring to establish a means towards an end-
namely, to correlate each with the Drown System of
Therapy.
The secretion of the gland, both in quantity and
quality, is its importance. If endocrines are depleted,
their service is likewise depleted.
What makes glands imbalanced?. Inheritance and
environment, with all their ramifications. We find that
every gland serves as a specific workshop or laboratory
for the preparation of a certain substance which enters
into the blood and is used to maintain the integrity of
the body.
Each endocrine gland has a particular function to
perform; it must do so if the body is to be normal. One
stimulates nervous tissue, another builds fat, another
strength, and so on. ·Through study of the endocrine
wheel we shall learn to diagnose these so perfectly that
they will become the basis of our accurate " blue print."
By means of just such knowledge of these glands we
are able to correlate their conditions with other findings
and thereby arrive· at a correct conclusion, for it is only
with understanding that we can decide wisely. We all
know how futile is the treatment without an accurate
diagnosis.
The endocrine glands, with their various signs,
symptoms and syndromes, are often so definite in their
picture that we may be inclined to use snap judgment,
thinking, " That is hyperthyroidism," or " That is
hypo-adrenia," and so on. Do not do this. Make· a
Endocrinology 35
complete diagnostic chart, then with a carefully taken
case history analyz~ and correlate the findings. The
doctor should observe this practice until he has become
very proficient-then keep on with it.
The Drown System of Therapy works from causes.
For instance, if we find a hypo-adrenia, we must find out
why the suprarenals are low. Thus we shall be able to
raise their resistance to normal so that they will not
become hypofunctioning again. With this system of
treatment we displace the subnormal vibration which we
term dis-ease, and allow nature to establish her normal
rhythm.
We shall consider the abnormal conditions under
three main heads, namely: inherited, toxic and environ-
mental; these may be classified into many sub-heads.
The endocrine glands are closely related and inter-
i;elated, and are very interdependent-so much so that
when any one of them is dysfunctioning, others feel the
effects; if several are out of balance the entire wheel
will be unbalanced, as in a severe case of hyper-
thyroidism.
The glands represent balance in the body; there-
fore if balance is to be maintained, both mental and
physical, we must keep the glands normal.
These endorcrine glands act very intelligently. They
have a selective, discriminating ability, for they work
singly and also in groups, some being synergistic and
some antagonistic. Without exception, all use certain
minerals to produce their own particular secretion. For
instance, the pancreas never was known to provide
adrenalin or thyroxin. Each gland does its own work
in its own way. All that is necessary is to keep it normal
and supply it with fuel; it will do the rest. This supply
is very necessary, particularly under the Drown System,
as the therapeutic instruments work only with the
patient's own energy. Consequently these chemicals
must be in the body, which takes them from the blood
stream.
Later we shall discuss the subject of how to select
exactly the element lacking-a vital instruction, because
so specific for each individual. This may appear con-
C2
Drown H.V.R. and Radio-Vision
fusing and difficult at the start, but very shortly tlie
doctor will find that the more difficult the case the better
he likes it, as it makes him think. There is a reason for
every procedure in the Drown System of Therapy.
THE SUPRARENALS
Th,efunction of the suprarenals is to furnish tone and
strength to every tissue and. organ in the body. They
select calcium from the blood stream and utilize it to
build red fibre, nerve and bone tissue throughout the
entire body.
The medulla secretes adrenalin. This is the internal
secretion; the cortex gives us the external secretion,
cortin.
Physiology of Suprarenal Medulla
r. Increases heart-beat and blood pressure.
2. Contracts uterus and all mucous membranes
through the sympathetic nervous system.
3. Reduces peristalsis.
4. Stimulates kidney function and metabolism.
5. Contrary to action of other glands, dilates pupils.
6. Decreases coagulation. time; contracts blood
vessels.
7. Stimulates smooth muscle.
Physiology of Suprarenal Cortex
r. Assists in control of renal function and excretion
of sodium.
2. Assists in carbohydrate metabolism.
3. Is important in body strength.
4. Assists in sexual development.
5. Opposes thyroxin.
6. Stores Vitamin C.
7. May assist in lactation.
8. Assists in detoxication (William Wolf: Endocrin-
ology in Modern Practice).
9. Controls hot flashes in menopause.
Endocrinology 37
Other endocrines with which the suprarenals are
closely associated are the gonads, thyroid, spleen and
J?ituitary.
In hypo/unction of the suprarenal medulla, we find a
general lack of tone and muscular weakness, as in a
severe case of influenza, which causes hypo-adrenia.
We might discover the suprarenals, one or both, very
low in function, with a rapid, weak pulse and heart, a
general body depletion, general asthenia, low blood
pressure, etc.
We might also find tuberculosis; certain forms of
anemia; so-called chronic rheumatism; sinus disease;
chronic prostatitis and pelvic infections; and again, in-
testinal toxemias, malignancies, etc. Always we quickly
determine the functioning capacity of the suprarenals;
if they are low, we look for some of the above-named
conditions. Then specifically and with speed we are able
to tell our patient the possibilities.
If the cortex is low, we at once think of Addison's
disease. If the patient is fifty or over, exhausted,· losing
weight, has skin splotches, low blood pressure, slow,
full, but sluggish and easily compressible pulse, Addi-
son's disease may be present, often in incipiency.
There are three conditions here to differentiate-
hypo-adrenia, Addison's disease and pernicious anemia.
In all three the suprarenals would be low in function,
but the bronzing of the skin, the blood picture and the
complete Drown '' blue print '' will be definite and con-
vincing to the doctor. In the Atlas we have a V.R.* for
nearly every disease, so we can easily find what condi-
tion is lowering the vibration of the suprarenals.
In hyper/unction of the suprarenals, we have but to
remember their circulation and innervation. According
to their size, they have the largest blood supply of any
organ in the body, and a very elaborate nerve supply
from the abdominal sympathetics through the splanch-
nics. So in hyperfunction every function is accentuated
-blood pressure, pulse and heart. There is nervous
fatigue, nervous exhaustion; even though sleep has been
* Vibratory rate.
Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
maintained throughout the night, the patient will awaken
exhausted, because he has slept in that same state of
tension characterized in the entire body. He will have
mental brilliancy but emotional instability.
Some of the signs and symptoms are : nervous
irritability, as well· as irritable heart; gastro-intestinal
irritability; hyperchlorhydria.
The H. V.R. Journal tells us that the suprarenals go
to the support of the lungs, also the motor nerves.
In asthma, consider the suprarenals and thyroid;
in chorea, the suprarenals and parathyroids; in common
colds, the suprarenals, parathyroids, thyroid and gonads;
in Addison's disease, always the liver with the suprare-
nals.
In all cases of hypertension, think of the suprarenals,
thyroid, ovaries and tail of the pancreas; in migraine,
the suprarenals. For extreme nervousness, use the com-
bined V.R. of right ovary and right suprarenal, or left
ovary and left suprarenal. Always consider well the
suprarenals in case of pneumonia; also in normalizing
an irregular or over-active heart.
In conclusion, it might well be said: never forget
to watch the suprarenals in every abnormal condition;
normalizing them and sending the blood through them
assists the well-being of the body.
This important glandular structure could be discussed
at endless length, but reference to the comprehensive
Atlas compiled for the Drown System of Treatment will
give any further information desired.
THE PINEAL GLAND
This gland, located in the brain, finds very little
mention in our text-books on endocrinology. Its function
is the development of the sex apparatus and a control
over the growth of the body, generative, skeletal and
somatic. It also lends support to the motor and sym-
pathetic nerves and to the eyes.
Like the thymus, the pineal is a gland of childhood,
Endocrinology 39
and reaches its fuli development early in this period. If
it is overactive after puberty serious results follow, one
of which may be diminished sex expression. Cases have
been reported in which maturity has come very early in
childhood as a result of the destruction of this gland
through tuberculosis. Complete destruction of the pineal
through malignancy causes profound cachexia and
trophic disturbances.
This gland and the thymus are to be considered at all
cancer cases.
The pathology found in the pineal is tumours or
cysts; among these may be sarcoma, teratoma,
psammoma, carcinoma, glioma, neuroglioma, etc. We
may also have a hydrocephalus developing, due to pres-
sure on the veins of Galen and the aqueduct of Sylvius,
the liquid filling first the third ventricle, then passing
down into the pituitary, giving symptoms of nervous or
pressure origin, such as cerebral hypertension, headache,
vomiting, convulsions, etc.
Signs and symptoms of imbalance are: -
I. Early growth, often premature, as well as mental
and sexual precocity in children.
2. Decreased sexual power in adults.
3. Polyuria, polydipsia, adiposity, and later, defec~
tiveness. (Wolf.)
4. Neuralgia, and pressure signs.
5. Precocious mental, genital and somatic develop-
ment. (Wolf.)
6. Tumours of various types.
7. Tumours causing pyloric obstruction and vagus
interference, resulting in epilepsy.
Many of these conditions are considered obscure,
and are usually diagnosed at autopsy only, by means of
the older methods, but with the Drown System of
Diagnosis, both the H.V.R. and the Radio-Vision Instru-
ment, we are able to diagnose the case definitely and
quickly, and many times treat the condition satisfac-
torily.
Drown H.V.R. and Radio-Vision
THE PITUITARY GLAND
Physiology or Function of Anterior Pituitary
I. Controls growth; all bones and tissues.
2. Stimulates the brain through phosphorus.
3. Inhibits the posterior pituitary, thereby estab.
lishing mental balance.
4. Regulates water metabolism.
The anterior pituitary produce5 several endocrines,
namely:
I. Growth endocrine.
2. Sex-stimulating endocrine, divided into (Wolf):
(a) Follicle-maturing fraction, called prolan A.
(b) Leuteinizing fraction called prolan B.
3. Thyrotropic endocrine.
4. Adrenotropic endocrine:
(a) To medulla.
(b) To cortex.
5. Lactogenic endocrine.
6. Diabetogenic endocrine.
7. Pancreatic endocrine.
8. Erythropoietic endocrine.
The many conditions of growth or lack of growth are
too numerous to be discussed here, but the underdev{llop-
ment of the sex apparatus is always due to hypofunction
of the anterior pituitary, the resulting clinical picture
depending on the age at which the disturbance began.
Hyperfunction of the anterior pituitary gives us the
picture of giantism; later this may change to a hypo-
function when the gland becomes exhausted from pres-
sure, as hyperfunction is usually due to a tumour of the
anterior lobe.
The posterior pituitary is composed wholly of nervous
'tissue, hence stimulus tissue throughout the body. It
secretes the substance pitressin (Wolf), which produces
the following effects:
I. Raises the blood pressure.
2. Is both diuretic and antidiuretic.
Endocrinology
3. Influences the production of obesity through water
retention.
4. Increases stomach and intestinal secr@tion.
5. Is antagonistic to insulin.
The posterior lobe of the pituitary plays an important
role in the H.V.R. work, as research has proved that the
V.R. for this may be directed through any organ or
part low in tone, such as diluted blood vessels, prolapsed
uterus, or any other prolapsed, atonic or ptosed area;
this gives quick and definite improvement.
The secretion pituitrin is a vasoconstrictor. When
the rate for the posterior lobe of the pituitary is directed
into the stomach, it increases the H.C.L.
Quite closely related with the pituitary· are the
suprarenals, gonads, thyroid and thymus.
The condition of thin, nervous patients whose
posterior pituitary is very high in function will be im-
proved by normalizing on both the anterior and posterior
pituitary, as well as the pars intermedia.
Through the H.V .R. diagnosis we are seeking to dis-
cover why these glands are out of balance. It may be
due to tumours, cysts, etc., or the failure of other glands
to contribute their balance. If there is a tumour of the
pituitary there will be increased intracranial pressure
The posterior pituitary is a thermic center and burns
up water, carbohydrates and fats. It inhibits the
mammary function, so may be responsible for metrorr-
hagia and menorrhagia.
Worry is a most important etiological factor in im-
balance on any part· of the body, but especially of the
glands, particularly the posterior pituitary.
The following are a few notes from an early H. V.R.
Journal:
'' I. Normalizing the glands in general brought about a
new growth of hair on the head of a patient.
2. Many cases of haemorrhage have been controlled
and usually stopped by normalizing the para-
thyroids. Treatment on the parathyroids relieves
asthma.
42 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
3. A combined rate of posterior pituitary and in-
ternal ovary has been known to result in a com-
plete cessation of pain caused by a cystic tumour,
and to overcome insomnia, which is a concimitant
symptom with this condition.
4. Combination treatment of posterior pituitary into
prolapsed areas of colon has given marked results
in cases of constipation.''
In abortion without apparent cause, consider the
anterior pituitary and ovaries; in criminology, the
anterior pituitary; in deafness, the pituitary, thyroid and
ovaries; in dementia prcecox, the pituitary and thyroid;
in diabetes insipidus, the posterior pituitary; in eczema,
the pituitary, thyroid and pancreas. Many others are
given in the Drown H.V.R. Atlas.
THE PANCREAS
The pancreas is directly concerned with the digestive
tract-the foods of the body; it is a gland of digestion.
Functions of the Pancreas
I. Secretes insulin, which maintains blood sugar at
normal level.
2. Aids in the metabolism of fats.
3. Aids in the absorption of carbohydrates, such as
glucose. .
4. Aids in storage of carbohydrates in the liver, such
as glycogen.
5. Converts glycogen back to glucose when needed.
Insulin is the internal secretion of the pancreas,
which controls carbohydfaTe metabolism, principally
anabolism, and also the anabolism of water. The
external secretion is composed of several substances-
mainly trypsin, amylase and steapsin. These act in the
digestion of fats and carbohydrates and in the beginning
of protein digestion. However, we are more concerned
·with insulin because of the pathology resulting from its
imbalance.
The pancreas is closely associated with the liver,
Endocrinology 43
suprarenals and pituitary; the liver and suprarenals are
regulated by the pituitary, as are most of the other
endocrines.
Through its use of carbon in the anabolism of carbo-
hydrates and the combustion of fats, the pancreas assists
the liver to eliminate toxic waste from the intercelluiar
spaces.
When the head of the pancreas is low in function, the
patient is unable to take care of ·starches; when the
function of the tail is low, he cannot take care of sweets,
and will complain of canker sores in the mouth, swollen
gums, etc. When the islands of Langerhans are low in
function, he craves sugar, but cannot take care of it, and
we may consider diabetes mellitus as a point in diagnosis.
It is well to remember that blood sugar is decreased in
diabetes mellitus; this in turn would cause an increase
in fibrinogen and fibrin elements, and in the coagula-
bility of the blood if an operation were necessary.
Diabetes mellitus is a condition of any age, but it is
to be suspected in a patient over fifty if he is erratic,
irritable; has great weakness; insomnia, intense craving
for carbohydrates, especially sugar; is always hungry;
has had loss of weight, etc. Tuberculosis is usually the
background for diabetes mellitus; however, if for any
reason the tuberculosis begins an acute activity, the
diabetes generally clears up.
With diabetes we have all manner of digestive dis-
turbances from deficiency of the pancreas and kidney
conditions, due to the irritation of sugar. Skin irritation,
faruncles, carbuncles and pyorrhea also may indicate a
diabetic tendency; and retinitis, iritis, cataract, neuritis
and acidosis might well cause us to look for this.
There are a numb.er of conditions showing excess
sugar that must be differentiated, such as pneumonia,
typhoid, cancer and tuberculosis; but with all these we
have various diagnostic points.
According to the Drown Method we find that the
pancreas gives its support to the skin and kidneys, and
should be considered both in diagnosis and treatment of
epilepsy (usually the tail of the pancreas, with the pineal,
in epileptic seizures).
44 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
In hypertension, look for imbalance in the tail of the
pancreas, also the thyroid, ovaries and suprarenals.
In all infections and in lowered blood pressure, con-
sider the tail of. the pancreas. Also check the pancreas
in gastric ulcer and in any skin ulcer or skin irritation.
As with all the glands, so much might be written-
but we refer you, as before, to the Atlas and to work
given in the Drown Therapy lectures.
THE OVARIES AND UTERUS
The ovary is the repository of the ova, and in addi-
tion to its normal function we find the elaboration of an
internal secretion which is responsible for growth and
certain developmental features, as:
r. Development and growth at puberty of the mam-
mary glands, vagina and uterus.
2. Assistance in maintaining, also in producing, the
physical and psychic secondary sex characteristics.
3. Establishment and maintenance of the menstrual
cycle.
4. Certain of the bodily changes that take place
during pregnancy, such as the embedding of the
ovum in the uterus; the development of the
placenta; relaxation of the symphysis pubis; and,
together with the anterior pituitary, promotion of
the secretion of milk. (Wolf.)
The chief endocrine of the ovary is produced mainly
by the graafian follicle and the corpus luteum.
Some writers claim that another hormone, known as
relaxin, is formed by the ovary. Its main function, as
the name implies, is relaxation to the symphysis pubis
and sacra-iliac region during the latter months of
pregnancy.
The secretion of the ovarian hormones, the process of
ovulation, luteinization, and the uterine changes de-
pendent on 1.hese hormones can occur normally only
when the relation between them and the anterior lobe of
the pituitary, the thyroid and the suprarenals is normal.
Endocrinology 45
These glands function in this way at puberty and for
the menstrual cycle; the thyroid acts on the thyrotropic
in the pituitary, and at the same time there is a corre-
sponding action of the pituitary on the thyroid; in turn,
the pituitary affects the ovary. The suprarcnal cortex
reacts in a similar manner upon the adrenotropic portion
of the pituitary, which then stimulates ovarian function,
while the mammary gland plays a very important part
in the control of menstruation as to quantity and length
of time for each period.
According to Wolf, changes occurring in the uterus
during the menstrual cycle are:
I. The resting stage.
2. The proliferative stage.
3. The premenstrual stage.
4. The destructive stage.
5. The regenerative stage.
The uterus has three functions:
I. Menstruation.
2. Pregnancy.
3. Secretion of a hormone for mineral balance, the
lack of which often causes rheumatism.
Both the uterus and ovaries are subject to tumours,
cysts, and great irregularities of function .
. Hypo.-ovarism gives insufficient, irregular, or com-
plete cessation of menstruation, which brings about a
series of nervous and vascular changes, also body
changes. Heredity and environment are the chief etio-
l~gical factors; Vitamin A is important, as it covers
malnutrition, while lack of Vitamin E leds to sterility.
Arthritis is a frequent accompaniment of ovarian (corpus
luteum) insufficiency.
Hyperovarism, or increased ovarian activity, is
characterized by early or premature development of both
primary and secondary sex characteristics. The thyroid
may be hyper or hypo. The pineal seems to have an
inhibitory influence, so if for any reason it is low, this
may allow the ovaries to become overactive. Suprarenal
Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
cortex pathology, such as tumours, may stimulate
ovarian activity. Agitation and worry will cause an im-
balance in the ovaries which may result in hypo or hyper-
activity. Many cases of menorrhagia and metrorrhagia
are due to hyperovarism, and often combine with
mammary imbalance.
Referring to the Drown Method, we find that the
ovaries contribute to the well-being of the skin, hair,
teeth, eyes, and the motor and sympathetic nerves.
In the following conditions, the ovaries are to be con-
sidered carefully: abortion without apparent cause;
arteriosclerosis; arthralgian in knees, insteps, shoulders
and the small articulations of the hands; bladder irrita-
tion; bronchitis; bronchopneumonia, chloasma; chlorosis;
common colds; deafness; haemorrhages of menopause or
puberty; menstrual headaches with scanty flow; obesity;
tonsilitis; vomiting at pregnancy; leukorrhea. (All these
belong to the external function of the ovaries.)
In the above-mentioned conditions, the other related
glands should always be remembered; for, as some writer
has said, '' Every organ serves as a workshop for the
preparation of a specific substance which enters into the
blood; such substances are useful to the body, and are
needed in order to maintain its integrity.'' · And the
foundation on which success depends in the Drown
System of Diagnosis and Treatment is the ability to
correlate one's findings.
THE GONADS AND PROSTATE
The testicles are essentially the organs of reproduction
in the male. Their blood supply comes from the sper-
matic artery, a direct branch of the aorta. The testes
in the male correspond to the ovaries in the female, per-
forming their half of the function in enabling the ovum
to develop into a new being; the prostate and Cowper's
glands assist in this process.
As in the female, so in the male-the gonads are
closely associated with the pituitary, thyroid and supra-
renals. Both male and female gonads use nitrogen.
Endocrinology 47
Function of the Gonads
I. Primarily the production of spermatozoa.
2. Internal secretion, which helps in formation and
maintenance of the secondary sex characteristics.
3. Development and maintenance of prostate sper-
matogenic elements and accessory sex apparatus.
4. Growth and distribution of hair on head and body.
5. Maturing of muscles of larynx and skeleton.
6. Some control over fat distribution.
The orchic hormone produces courage, optimism and
mental control through its power to stimulate the anterior
pituitary.
Hypofunction, Signs and Symptoms (Wolf)
Pre-adolescent hypogonadism:
I. Small genitals and undeveloped secondary sex
characteristics.
2. Overgrowth of long bones.
3. Voice high-pitched; feminine in general.
4. Dental anomalies.
5. Clumsy, dull, weak-minded attitude.
Adult hypogonadism:
I. More or less regression of sex characteristics.
2. Atrophy of prostate.
3. Girdle obesity.
4. Nervous and psychic symptoms; individual feels
he is persecuted.
5. Low resistance to infection and tendency to
dementia praecox; cirrhosis of liver; homo-
sexuality; diabetes; parathyroid and thymus
disorders.
The etiology of both pre-adolescent and adult hypo-
function is the same-inherited, acquired or environ-
mental.
Drown H. V .R. and Radio-Vision
Hyperfunction (Hyperorchidism), Signs and
Symptoms (Wolf)
I. Precocious puberty.
2. Excessive development of these organs.
3. Rapid skeletal growth, ceasing early, resulting in
short arms and legs.
4. Premature tooth eruption, separation, malposition
or overcrowding.
5. Hirsutism.
6. Nervous and mental symptoms.
7. Tachycardia, tremour.
Etiology-inherited, acquired.
The presence of tumours, such as sarcoma, teratoma,
etc., may be the cause of the trouble.
If the testes fail to function they are subject to
tumours and general hypertrophy, which may cause
severe cystitis from pressure.
These glands supply the skin, and the motor and
sympathetic nerves.
Under the following conditions we should watch the
gonads: ateriosclerosis; bladder irritation; broncho-
pneumonia; pneumonia; pulmonary embolism; cardiac
hypertrophy; myocardial insufficiency; sciatica; pylone-
phritis. All these are quickly diagnosed with the H.V.R.,
as well as successfully treated.
The prostat(J is composed of muscular, fibrous, con-
nective and glandular tissue. It has an·_externalfunction
only, and is controlled by the orchic and pituitary
homones. After an individual is fifty it hypertrophies;
after castration, it atrophies. The removal of the
prostate is the orthodox method of treating hypertrophy,
but with the H.V.R. this is usually unnecessary.
THE THYROID
Functions
I. Secretes thyroxin; also changes this into thyro-
globulin to be stored in the thyroid and released
Endocrinology 49
when for any reason iodin becomes low m the
circulation.
2. Controls or regulates metabolism.
·3· Sensitizes every cell and organ of the body to
sympathetic stimulation.
4. Assists in the control of tissue differentiation.
5. Increases the heart rate.
6. Controls coagulation time.
7. Increases urea and fluid secretion.
8. Stimulates alertness mentally.
9. Controls or regulates the fat of the body.
IO. Controls intestinal motility.
Relation of the Thyroid to Other Endocrines
r. It is antagonistic to the insulin in the pancreas.
2. The thyroid and the medulla of the suprarenal are
synergistic.
3. A close relation exists between the thyroid and the
gonads, as shown by disturbances of the thyroid
at puberty, pregnancy and menopause.
4. The thyroid is antagonistic to the parathyroids.
5. It acts on and is acted upon by the pituitary
fractions, these being known as thyrotropic,
adrenotropic, etc.
Conditions Resulting from Hypofunction
Lack of thyroid secretion in infancy interferes with
both mental and physical growth and development.
I. Cretinism is a condition of fetal life or infancy,
and may be caused by partial or complete lack of
thyroid, the signs and symptoms varying accord-
ingly.
2. Myxedema is also a condition resulting from hypo-
function, but occurring later in life, even in middle
D
50 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
life, and manifesting the characteristic signs and
symptoms of inertia, both mental and physical;
obesity; low B.M.R.; obstinate constipation;
mental depression, etc.
The lowered function of the thyroid results in slow
growth in children; delayed maturity; overweight;
scanty or absent menstruation in the girl and extreme
sluggishness in general in the boy; slow pulse; dry skin,
hair and nails. The lack of mental stimulation is greatly
in evidence. Bright's disease usually requires thyroid
activation.
Hyperfunction gives quite a different picture. The
individual is quick, vivacious; both mentally and physic-
ally alert. In extreme cases we have Graves' disease,
with its characteristics signs and symptoms, too familiar
to enumerate. For more detailed information, refer to
the H.V.R. Atlas.
In many of these hyperthyroid cases, which might be
very obscure under the old system, differential diagnoses
are quickly and definitely made with the Drown H.V.R.
Method.
Consulting the Drown Atlas, we find that the thyroid
has a specific action upon the brain cells and the sym-
pathetic nervous system. If wounds heal slowly, look
to the thyroid.
For the many other conditions in which the thyroid
is very important we refer you to the H.V.R. Atlas.
In conclusion, we give the following chart, taken from
the H. V.R. Journal, December, 1931 :
" We have noted the following significant results in
checking the function of the glands of a patient who had
taken thyroid extract (not under a physician's super-
vision) over a period of many years, but who stopped the
extract a month prior to the test appearing below.
During that month she started treatments with the
H.V.R. Instrument. We tabulate a check of the patient's
glands and organs, taken with the thyroid extract (a
combination of thyroid extract and iodine), and without
it:
Endocrinology
Suprarenal, R.
L.
Pineal
Normal. With.
5/10 7/10
5/10 8/10
10/10 2 points
51
Without.
4/10
4/10
6/10
(10/10=1 point)
Pituitary, anterior lobe
posterior lobe
pars intermedia
Pancreas, head
10/10 10/10 7/10
10/10 1-9/10 points 7/10
1()/10 7/10 6/10
10/10 3 points 1-4/10 points
tail 10/10 1-5/10 points 8/10
"
islands of Langer-
hans 10/10 2 points
Ovary, R. (Internal function) 10/10
L. 10/10
1-8/10 points
2 points
Thyroid, R. side ... 5/10
L. side ... 5/10
Parathyroid, upper R. 10/10
lower R 10/10
upper L. 10/10
lower L. 10/10
Thymus
Lymph
Spleen
Liver
(in adults, 1/10 to 4/10)
10/10
10/10
1 to 4 points
,, , left lobe
,, , caudate lobe
Kidney, R.
R. interstitial tissue
L....
L. interstitial tissue
Stomach, pyloric end
cardiac end
hydrochloric acid
Arteries
Veins
Motor nerves
Sensory nerves
Sympathetic nerves
Heart muscle
Heart, R. ventricle
L.
10/10
10/10
10/10
10/10
10/10
10/10
8/10
10/10
10/10
10/10
10/10
10/10
10/10
4/10
4/10
2 points
2 points
9/10
9/10
2 points
2 points
2 points
4/10
8/10
2 points
1 point
9/10
2/10
3/10
7/10
5/10
8/10
7/10
4/10
3/10
6/10
9/10
2 points
3 points
10/10
2/10
1/10
7/10
8/10
8/10
2/10
1/10
8/10
1/10
8/10
4/10
4/10
7/10
8/10
2 points
1 point
8/10
7/10
4/10
9/10
9/10
10/10
10/lO
6/10
9/10
3/10
9/10
5/10
6/10
4/10
6/10
6/10
(This patient had taken thyroid extract for nearly twenty
years, and her pulse rate averaged about 54.)
D2
52 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
Normal. With. Without.
Coronary artery, R. 10/10 3/10 9/10
" "
L. 10/10 6/10 8/10
Pulmonary artery, R. 10/10 6/10 9/10
"
L. 10/10 6/10 8/10
vein, R. 10/10 7/10 8/10
" "
L. 10/10 6/10 8/10
Duodenum, 10/10 3/10 9/10
"
hydrochloric acid 8/10 9/10 8/10
Jejunum 10/lo 2/10 9/10
Ileum 10/10 8/10 10/10
Colon, cecum 10/10 10/10 7/10
hepatic flexure 10/10 10/10 7/10
transverse ... 10/10 10/10 9/10
splenic flexure 10/10 10/10 9/10
sigmoid 10/10 10/10 6/10
rectum 10/10 10/10 6/10
'' It is evident from the above diagram that the thyroid
gland directly influences all other endocrine glands,
especially the suprarenals. They in tum act in their
usual way upon the intestinal areas. The hyperfunction
of the thyroid brings out hyperfunction of the suprarenals.
Thus when this extract is taken over a period of time it
keeps the suprarenals overactive during that interval,
causing the muscles of the duodenum and the jejunum to
register dysfunction, and inhibiting their normal digestive
apparatus. Consequently we find that the patient does
not absorb and store up fats, which are for the most part
digested in the small intestine.
'' It is apparent that a long period of improper blood
supply through these areas would soon bring about
ulceration, and in time degenerative tissues would result.
This in tum would have its effect on other parts of the
body.
'' The above chart seems to indicate that the para-
thyroids are definitely under the control of the two
energies in the body-the left being governed by the
energy in the blood stream, the right by the energy in
the nervous system.
'' From a study of the chart, the abnormal results
that can arise from a hyperthyroid condition are easily
seen, whether extract is given orally or whether this state
is produced in the body from the patient's own thyroid
Endocrinology 53
gland. It is evident that all other glands affected accord-
ingly will contribute their portion to the diseased
condition.
'' The patient whose test appears above has suffered
greatly from digestive disturbances, and has severe
kidney conditions. It will be noted by glancing at the
chart that not only has the function of the kidneys been
markedly decreased by the hyperthyroid trouble, but also
that of the arteries and veins, and the action of the heart,
while the sensory and motor nerves have been equally
increased in function.
'' This is one of the many obscure conditions that we
are able to bring to light in this laboratory."
THE PARATHYROIDS
· Functions of the Parathyroids
I. Regulate calcium in both blood and tissues.
2. Increase intestinal peristalsis.
3. Regulate absorption and excretion of mineral salts
in the body.
4. Maintain neuromuscular balance and sympathetic
equilibrium.
5. Assist in bone and tooth formation.
6. Detoxicate.
7. Are necessary in coagulation of milk and blood.
8. Through trypsinogen by enterokinase, they assist
in protein metabolism.
9. Through calcium balance, regulate the heart
rhythm.
IO. Through calcium balance, regulate the perme-
ability of cell membrane and thereby assist in
controlling allergic conditions.
On page nine in the Drown H.V.R. Atlas, we find:
" The upper right parathyroid controls the toxins,
calciums, and the function of the nerves of the head and
neck.
" The lower right parathyroid controls the toxins,
calciums, and the function of the nerves of the body and
limbs.
54 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
" The upper left parathyroid controls the toxins,
calciums, and the blood vessels of the head and neck.
" The lower left parathyroid controls the toxins,
calciums, and the blood vessels of the body and limbs
through the sympathetic nervous system."
Relationship to Other Endocrines
Embryologically, the parathyroids are closely related
to the thymus. They are antagonistic to the thyroid, but
synergistic to the suprarenals and pituitary. The para-
thyroids stimulate the suprarenals to secrete adrenalin.
Hypofunction
Many conditions manifest from lowered function of
the parathyroids-from spasmodic croup in children to
tetany. All result from low calcium, and represent
hypofunctioning parathyroids-for calcium, with phos-
phorus, soothes the nerves and muscles, and controls the
speed at which the impulses are carried over the
neuromuscular system.
In hypoparathyroids we find a definite lack of tone
in all muscles and in the intestines. This in turn will
cause retarded intestinal movement and produce consti-
pation. There will be slow digestion and a diminution
of pancreatic and gastric juices. There are many condi-
tions to be differentiated, which can be done very satis-
factorily with the H.V.R.
.Hyperfunction
'
In such cases there is usually a tumour in one or more
of the glands; most frequently it is adenoma in type.
This causes calcium to be mobilized from the bone, which
results in a rarefaction of the bones. The decalcification
makes the bones very brittle, so that fractures are com-
mon. Yet the bones often become soft; this is known
as generalized osteitis fibrosa cystica, or osteitis fibrosa
generalisata (Wolf). These terms are used according to
location and the structure involved. The Drown Radio·-
Vision Instrument would show this cystic condition
within the bone.
Endocrinology 55
Why do we normalize the parathyroids in
haemorrhage? To assist them to mobilize quickly the
calcium needed to form the clot, for we know that calcium
converts the prothrombin into thrombin. This reacts
with fibrinogen to form fibrin, which is essential to the
clotting.
The parathyroids should be physiologically high in
pregnancy and in childhood. Calcium unites with phos-
phorus in the body to form calcarea-phos., which is very
needful in all low-grade conditions such as cancer,
tuberculosis, pernicious anemia, etc. Supply, absorp-
tion and utilization of calcium must be normal if the body
is to be maintained in comfort.
THE SPLEEN
We find this gland high in sulphur, utilizing that
substance in the hormone which it forms. One of its
functions is to detoxicate. It neutralizes toxins, and
when these are removed the field is no longer fertile for
infection.
If the spleen were always normal we should have
little trouble, since the spleen has as one of its functions
maintaining the composition of the circulating blood at a
certain level. According to some writers, this keeps the
erythrocyte count and the haemoglobin count unchanged.
The spleen is responsible for the removal of destroyed
erythrocytes. They are deposited in this organ when
they have served their purpose, and it must dispose of
them.
The spleen exerts an inhibitory function over the
bone marrow. Thus it does not. admit too many
erythrocytes into the blood stream. As has been stated
previously, these endocrine glands act intelligently.
They represent balance. This is corroborated by the
H.V.R. instruction, in which the different physical parts
are correlated with the mental, showing how the Direct-
'ing Intelligence (pure, white invisible Light), coming in
through the pineal gland, works through the mind. The
brain, being the flood-gate through which this Energy
flows, must also be normal. Again, the glands must be
balanced, or the brain will not function properly.
Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
The spleen is important in the Drown System of
Therapy, since in a way it represents our constitution,
or the resistance which we brought into life with us;
while th·e suprarenals denote the resistance we have
generated ourselves. Regardless of the poor condition of
a patient, he has a much better fighting chance if his
spleen is in fair condition.
An over/unction of the spleen causes Banti's disease.
The spleen is liable to become depleted in such ill-
nesses at typhoid, typhus, malaria, or any low-grade type
of fever, with slow convalescence. In anemia, when the
spleen is low in function, foods supplying sulphur should
be advised. Garlic has a ~igh content of this.
Because of the close association between the spleen
and the liver we may find toxic conditions arising, such
as hyperacidity, acidosis, or a general toxemia. The
suprarenals are also included in this group; if they be-
come depleted, weakness will manifest.
It is noticeable that frequently the suprarenals and
pituitary combine in the various groups or hormones.
This, of course, is good Mother Nature sending strength
and cell tone through the suprarenals, and driving power
through the pituitary into every cell and organ in the
body.
When the spleen is out of balance it interferes greatly
with the liver and blood.
Through its internal secretion, the spleen resists in-
fection, particularly anthrax. This internal secretion is
a ferment which breaks down worn-out cells and prepares
the contents of these cells for other processes. This may
apply also to leukocytes, especially phagocytes.
When the spleen becomes inactive, through- removal
or otherwise, the lymph nodes and bone may attempt to
carry on its function.
This organ is more active in childhood and middle
life, because of the greater predisposition to disease at
these times. Some of the conditions interfering with
normal functioning of the spleen are :
r. A floating spleen. When this trouble is suspected,
test for dullness where the spleen should be; also
Enaocrinolo gy 57
look for the hilus of the spleen with its pulsating
artery. Unless it has been displaced too long, it
can be slipped back into place in the same way
as a floating kidney.
2. A twisted pedicle is another condition to be con-
sidered. According to the severity of the trouble,
this gives sudden engorgement, severe local pain,
sudden anemia, marked pallour, fever, uncontroll-
able vomiting, with marked shock and collapse.
This condition might be confused with hydro-
nephrosis, movable kidney, abdominal tumour,
ovarian or uterine tumours, fecal accumulation, or
even an extra-uterine pregnancy.
It is in such cases as these that the H.V.R. is indis-
pensable, for with the mind and hands properly working
with this instrument it does not seem reasonable that one
could fail in a diagnosis if he had proper knowledge of
the subject.
Other conditions causing an acute hyperemia, with
congestion and enlargement, are: acute toxemias, par--
ticularly typhoid; typhus; septicemia; pyemia; ulcera-
tive endocarditis; glanders; anthrax; abortion due to
sepsis.
In acute engorgements the spleen is soft and flabby,
while in chronic cases it is hard.
Important symptoms which lead one to suspect a
spleen condition are: enlargement; tenderness on pres-
sure; a feeling of weight. If there is high blood pressure
with the enlargement there may be a very discernible
pulsation over the spleen.
This organ assists in the control of water storage and
circulation; therefore in all abnormal fluidic"conditions
anywhere in the body the endocrines should be checked
to see how the spleen is functioning.
THE BALANCE BETWEEN THE ENDOCRINES AND EACH
INDIVIDUAL ENDOCRINE, CORRELATED WITH THE DROWN
SYSTEM OF RADIO THE·RAPY
The balance between the endocrines is as important
as that of each individual endocrine; as a chain is only
58 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
as strong as its weakest link so is the endocrine wheel
only as strong as each of its spokes.
Through the senses are carried the stimuli which affect
the cerebrum-i.e., sight, hearing, taste, smell, feeling
(such as touch or pain); also temperature.
A close relation exists between the cerebrum and the
autonomic nervous system, and through these comes
conscious and unconscious stimulation.
Speaking broadly, the autonomic nervous system
includes the vagus, parasympathetic and the sympathetic
nerves; we also know that the thyroid sensitizes every
cell, tissue and organ in the body to sympathetic stimula-
tion; hence the importance of the thyroid in perfect
balance is easily 8een.
The vagus and sympathetic are exactly opposite in
activity-for instance, the sympathetic stimulates the
heart, while the vagus slows it. So this very intelligent
activity is ever manifesting in the body throughout life.
Through the resultant properly balanced mechanism we
have normal action and its normal response; in other
words, demand and supply in the body.
When there are variations from the normal in any of
its parts, we are liable to find the gland corresponding
to that part out of balance. Our clinical results show
that by normalizing these glands with the H.V.R. we are
able to relieve the patient.
The impulses are sent to the endocrines by the auto-
nomic nervous system, but they can respond only
according to their own development or condition-that is,
according to their power to respond to the stimuli. These
endocrines change in their secretory activity at different
periods in life, and under varying circumstances and
events. For instance, if fear and worry are persisted in
for any length of time, it will throw the entire endocrine
wheel out of balance, as every gland is dependent on
every other endocrine and its component parts.
Quoting from The Endocrines, by Samuel Wyllis
Bandier, A.B., M.D., F.A.C.S.:
'' If an emotion resulting in the outpouring of the
adrenal secretion includes adrenalin only, fear or terror
is expressed. If the cortex is added, the emotion tends
Endocrinology 59
to be that of anger. If the posterior pituitary enters, it
enhances both the others. If the anterior pituitary joins,
there is added the element of strength, judgment and self-
possession.''
From this picture it is easy to understand how neces-
sary one endocrine or its parts are to the complete
harmonic balance, for whenever an emotion occurs, the
autonomic nervous system reacts, and in addition one or
more of the endocrine glands are called into action.
Each gland has charge over certain activities in the
body. For example, the thyroid is conceded to be the
gland of energy, even to the tongue. So we find the
hyperthyroid people great talkers, if the anterior
pituitary is balanced.
We might continue at great length showing how
necessary is the endocrine balance in the body. Let it
suffice to say that these endocrine friends work for us by
night and by day, and should be well treated. In con-
nection with this, it must be remembered that air, water
and foods are essential also to their normal balance and
interbalance.
In 1920, in his work on endocrines, Bandier said:
" When the next war comes, if it does at all, soldiers
before going over the top will not be given alcohol; they
will be given endocrine cocktails, and the adrenal cortex
will be the important ingredient. And if the world
would administer to diplomats, high officials, legislators
and its people the proper endocrines, especially the
anterior pituitary, and inhibit the adrenal cortex a little,
there would be no more wars . . .
'' so· as we study these inervations and resulting
normal functions regulated by this autonomic nervous
system, and the diagnoses of altered or abnormal func-
tion of any of the structures so inervated, we find it much
simplified by individual and comparative study of the
endocrine glands. The endocrine field is a vast one, for
there is no abnormal or even normal function that is not
in some way related, directly or indirectly, to some one
or more of the endocrines."
In discussing the following subjects, we have included
the findings of William Wolf, M.D., M.S., Ph.D., in
Endocrinology in Modern Practice.
60 Drown H.V.R. and Radio-Vision
DISEASES OF CHILDHOOD
The endocrines are very important in the growth and
development of the child; consequently they may become
overtaxed and often run wild, so to speak. If there has
been a good inheritance there will be less tendency to
such disturbance.
The child will manifest these glandular dysfunctions
almost, if not quite, from the very first breath. And
from this time on the endocrines must be harmonious in
all their relationships and interrelatiortships if he is to
grow and develop normally. So childhood is the golden
opportunity to establish the endocrine balance. If in
infancy he is overweight, does not recognize people as
he should, or shows retardation in teething, walking,
etc., the thyroid is low in function.
Excessive growth during childhood indicates over-
function of the pituitary, while lack of growth might be
due to a low functioning of the anterior pituitary. How-
ever, the glands responsible for the growth both before
and after birth are the thyroid, pituitary, thymus and
gonads.
Hypothyroid conditions manifest early-such as de-
layed dentition, delayed ossification centres, retarded
function of walking and talking; these sometimes extend
to the fifth year. This may result in cretinoid tendencies,
a general backwardness, later adiposity, and sexual
retardation.
Disproportionate growth, with lengthened arms and
legs, is interesting. If arms are short it indicates an
over/unction of the pituitary, and thymus and gonadal
insufficiency, while the opposite seems to suggest a hyper-
/unction of the gonads and of the suprarenal cortex. We
may find a tumour in the latter.
Some of the diseases in children due to these un-
balanced glands are :
I. Cretinism-usually congenital.
2. Myxedema-both this and cretinism are hypo-
thyroid, with the characteristic signs and symp-
toms of sluggishness, a tendency to obesity,
Endocrinology 61
difficult feeding in infancy, soft teeth, and in
adolescent females, menstrual difficulties.
3. Colloid goitre-a condition manifesting at puberty,
with enlargement usually of one lobe; coarse hair,
dry skin, bradycardia, and all other signs and
symptoms of hypothyroid-differentiated from
toxic adenoma, which is accomplished by
tachycardia.
4. Juvenile hyperthyroidism-usually a nervous
condition only. While the thyroid is at fault, it
is easily corrected through the nervous system by
special attention to this system and to the glands.
Directing the V.R. for the blood through that of
the sympathetics or the plexuses will many times
go far to correct an unstable nervous system.
5. Addison's disease-this rarely develops; and is
due to tuberculosis.
6. Suprarenal insufficiency-a frequent complication
in infectious diseases, such as malignant scarlet
fever. Total suprarenal insufficiency may cause
abdominal pains, simulating peritonitis or menin-
gitis, with rapidly ensuing death. Here the
H.V.R. is1invaluable in diagnosing and treating
every step of the way, enabling the doctor to know
exactly what measures to take and the reasons for
them. If these conditions are given the Drown
Method of Treatment in their early stages such
serious results do not appear, as the suprarenals
would be normalized by the instrument to the
degree that they could not function so low.
7. Diabetes mellitis-very common in children, and
often overlooked. The main symptoms are in-
creased thirst and frequency of urination, especi-
ally if excessive appetite and progressive malnu-
trition are also present. Of course the islands of
Langerhans are the seat of the trouble, but the
posterior pituitary and the pars intermedia are
involved as well.
8. Overfunctioning thymus-this may cause much
difficulty~uch as attacks of cyanosis and respira-
tory stridor in young infants through mechanical
62 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
pressure on the heart, lungs and trachea. The
symptoms are noisybreathing, " brassy " cough,
temper tantrums;· attacks of cyano~is should make
us very careful in our diagnosis.
9. Status lymphaticus-characterized· by a persistent
enlargement of the thymus. This is combined
with a general overgrowth of lymphoid tissue;
there may be pressure symptoms, nasal catarrh
and enlarged tonsils. A child suffering from such
a condition is of the " angelic " type, with long
legs, frail appearance, smooth skin and silky hair,
bony fingers and over-flexible joints.
IO. Nutritional diseases-many children will not gain,
regardless of what is done. These are the endocrine
deficients; again we tie in with H.V.R. treatment
by normalizing on these glands continually, in
addition to other H.V.R. treatment according to
correlated findings. As a rule, the child whose
leanness seems to be constitutional will have a
low-functioning pancreas. How does the secretion
of insulin assist in the gain in weight? It aug-
ments gastro-intestinal motility and increases
biliary secretions, thus acting as a genuine
stimulant and adding to the gain in weight and
strength. This is the reason for normalizing the
the pancreas.
II. Marasmus-this results from a long, wasting ill-
ness and slow convalescence; in such a condition
the suprarenals and thymus are deficient, and the
entire endocrine wheel is out of balance. We might
also find a pinched nerve affecting the centres of
nutrition. In addition, the lymphoid tissues and
fibrous tissue should be treated, and vitamins are
important.
12. Rickets-another very important disease of child-
hood, because it is so common and so far-reaching
in its effect. Manv times in middle life we find a
condition due to rickets in childhood. It is caused
primarily by a failure to absorb calcium (a lack
of Vitamin D). In rickets, the parathyroids,
thyroid, pituitary, thymus and suprarenals are
Endocrinology
chiefly at fault, but there will seldom be a normal
spoke in the endocrine wheel when the child has a
well-developed case of rickets.
13. Blood disorders-such as anemia, due to supra~
renal, thyroid or pancreatic deficiency; the most
serious type is found in myxedema. In Addison's
disease and diabetes mellitis there is a mild second-
ary anemia. This also occurs in severe hyper-
thyroidism.
14. Digestive disorders-there are many diseases of
the digestive system (hypothyroid is usually
present), these ranging from simple vomiting
without apparent cause, constipation, loss of
appetite, flatus and hiccoughs to difficulties in
walking and talking, and mental backwardness.
As we refer to the " blue print " in such cases, we
find the thyroid about 1 / IO instead of 5/ IO
(normal) in function. The suprarenals may also
be low, whereas they should be toning up the
gastro-intestinal mucosa, and the suprarenal cortex
will be even more at fault. This same lack of tone
may cause an intestinal stasis. Here the rate for
the posterior lobe of the pituitary should be sent
through the mucous membrane of the intestines.
This acts in the same way as pituitrin (stimulation).
15. Constipation-in children, this is usually due to
inactivity of the thyroid. After normalizing with
the thyroid rate on the H.V.R., it is sometimes a
good plan to send the rate for the posterior lobe
of the pituitary into the muscles of the intestines.
16. Diarrhea-when not due to some irritant, this is
caused by a low suprarenal function which allows
the vagus fibres to be overactive, thereby produc-
ing a too rapid emptying of the stomach and in-
creased intestinal motility. Procedure should be
to test the stomach, the intestines and the tenth
cranial nerve; also the second cranial, for this
nerve gives support to the stomach. Diarhea is
sometimes due to a hyperthyroid, but in !:,UCh
cases there would beother hyperthyroid symptoms.
17. Enuresis-may be traced to a hypothyroid, low-
64 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision:
functioning pituitary or suprarenal. The rate for
the posterior lobe of the pituitary should be sent
into the bladder. If this does not remedy the
trouble there is some other cause than lack of tone.
In nervous children it may be a hyper-posterior
pituitary, resulting in nervous irritation; it may
also be a pinched nerve, or worms.
r8. Nephritis and nephrosis-these are other con-
ditions of childhood in which we must consider
the thyroid.
rg. Respiratory diseases-among such troubles is
asthma. The thymus should be treated, also the
suprarenals. We know that adrenalin is given in
these cases; therefore the suprarenals should be
normalized with the H.V.R., and any disease or
condition found in them should be treated.
20. Cardiac asthenia-the child with this is always
tired, showing lack of interest, etc. Here we have
the suprarenals and the thyroid to consider. The
suprarenal glands, particularly the cortex, acting
with the thyroid, support the muscle fibres of the
heart and blood vessels. Heart block, both
primary and secondary, is stopped with adrenalin;
hence it will readily be seen why, in heart cases,
the suprarenals should be normalized with the
H.V.R.
2r. Tetany-we sometimes have this to contend with
in children, due to insufficient function of the para-
thyroids; spastic contractions, as in laryngismus
stridulus, asthma, and other spasmodic conditions.
These are not the result of lack of calcium, but of
faulty distribution. The parathyroids should be
normalized with the H.V.R.; in addition it is a
good plan to send the rate for disseminated mul-
tiple sclerosis through the spinal cord, from which
the nerves emerge. (In laryngismus stridulus,
this rate would probably be sent into the cervical
nerves.) It is wise also to look for blocked nerves.
22. Epilepsy-in this condition, we at once think of
many of the endocrines, such as the pituitary,
parathyroids, pancreas, gonads and thyroid.
Radio-Vision Photograph of Duod enal Ulcer, taken from Blood Specimen,
compared in size and shape with Photogra ph of Chronic Perforatin g Ulcer.
Endocrinology
23. Bone and joint diseases-With these, we always
find a low-functioning thyroid, the suprarenals
will also be low.
24. Skin conditions-there are many skin conditions
of childhood, all showing thyroid and gonadal de-
ficiency, as in acne, eczema, urticaria and simple
hives. These troubles call the suprarenals into
action because of the lack of tone in the blood
vessels. The pancreas is to be considered in all
skin conditions.
25. Infectious diseases-susceptibility to infections
means low endocrine function, which has caused
a lowered resistance. In the Drown Treatment
Method, the general practice of normalizing the
glands perhaps explains why patients do not have
as many colds as others. We know that adrenalin,
thyroid, splenic and other extracts are used both
as active and prophylactic remedies in handling
infectious diseases; the Drown Method indicates
the same treatment, but in a better manner-the
glands are normalized, that they may do their
own work in their own way.; no extracts from
animals are forced into the body to bring about
results. It is incomprehensible that more doctors
do not grasp this.
26. Pertussis-in such cases, the head, throat and
bronchi are of course involved.
27. Mumps-in treating for this, remember the gonads.
28. Measles-recent investigation indicates that the
placental extract may prove of value in the treat-
ment of measles, and also confer an immunity
against diphtheria, scarlet fever and poliomyelitis.
This should give us a clue as to treatment of these
diseases with the H.V.R.
29. Tuberculosis-here the thyroid and suprarenals
must be treated; also the spleen. The latter
should be treated in all infections, as it is the anti-
toxic agent, neutralizing toxins and aiding in the
elimination of acids.
30. Influenza-or the ordinary cold, leaves its per-
manent effect on the child unless recognized (as
E
66 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
can be done with H.V.R. diagnosis), and released
from the system. The suprarenals are always
weakened by colds, and because they are weakened
every other part of the body shows lack of tone
and strength. The suprarenals should be normal-
ized, and the influenza displaced in them as well
as elsewhere.
In child or adult we find conditions much the same.
Either normal tone or altered. tone manifests as ease and
health, or dis-ease and lack of health; as " vim, vigour
and vitality," or their opposites-listlessness, laziness
and lethargy. And the endocrine wheel determines, at
least to a large extent, which it shall be.
It must be remembered that great care should b3
exercised with the blood count and urinalysis, for these
must and will tie in with the glands, diseases and case
history. All must fit perfectly together to make the com-
plete " blue print." If they do not, something is wrong.
For example, if anemia is found, and it does not appear
in the blood picture, search for the mistake as you would
for the error in a trial balance sheet. One cannot be too
careful in diagnosis; a painstaking, accurate, complete
diagnosis should never be too much trouble. Success
with the H. V.R. is built on this.
THERAPEUTIC SUGGESTIONS CONCERNING ENDOCRINOLOGY
CORRELATED WITH THE DROWN THERAPY
No study of the human body has created so much
interest and made such strides in recent years as that of
the glandular system. Endocrinology is paramount with
every doctor. So it is,with the Drown Therapy-it is the
very foundation of diagnosis and treatment.
The body is managed by the endocrine glands, each
of these producing many secretory elements, and having
a definite, specific action. Every gland is a spoke in the
wheel; some have to do with bones and teeth; some with
the development of the body and the nervous system;
some with the development of the mind, etc. Later,
they are concerned with the introduction of sex features
and reproduction; s.till later, with preservation of those
Endocrinology
structures and functions which constitute the body and
mind.
If the energy given off by these glands is under or
over active, there is a disturbance of the specific function
which these component parts are supposed to perform.
Since the glands are so dependent on each other, the up-
set of any one may disturb the rhythmical action of all
the others.
Of such importance has the knowledge of the physio-
logy of the endocrines become that many now use
glandular prescriptions in preference to drugs-for in-
stance, in handling such cases as amenorrhea, menorr-
hagia, metrorrhagia, threatened miscarriage, habitual
miscarriage, sterility, and disturbances of climacteric.
Of course in the Drown System of Therapeutics the
matter is greatly simplified, inasmuch as the exact
functioning capacity of each gland can be found by
tuning in on the H.V.R. with the individual V.R. for the
gland or its component parts. Also the doctor is able by
the same means to test the gland prescription given-to
determine whether it will act in a constructive manner
and thus assist nature to balance the particular area.
From this it will be realized how quick, sure and safe
it is possible to be with the use of this system. Give
whatever treatment tp.e diagnosis seems to require-but
don't administer a " shot-gun prescription," and think
that because it has helped one patient in a certain con-
dition it will benefit another who seems· to have exactly
the same trouble. They are two different individuals,
and as such have different reactions. These can be dis-
covered with the H.V.R.
We quote from Bandler:
'' When a patient is pregnant and the menstrual activi-
ties of the ovary, thyroid and pituitary are held in check
by the placental secretion, we have a constant struggle
between the two-that is, between the secretions of the
mother and the secretions of the ovum during the entire
two hundred and seventy odd days of. pregnancy.
'' If the placental secretion cannot hold the maternal
secretion in check, the placenta then asserts itself and we
E2
68 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
have a miscarriage. Hyperfunction of the posterior
pituitary plays an important part in this condition."
This should be watched for, and treated with the
H.V.R.
The nausea and vomiting may be due to the placental
secretion, or to a hyperfunctioning posterior pituitary.
Sometimes we may have an extreme drowsiness from a
hypofunctioning posterior pituitary. In all such cases
the glands should be normalized, and whatever other
treatment is indicated by the complete diagnosis should
be given.
At the menopause period, if the pituitary is hyper-
active the uterus and ovaries will not recede in activity as
they should. Instead they will be overstimulated, and
we may have a metrorrhagia or menorrhagia, a large,
boggy uterus and large ovaries. If overy, thyroid, supra-
renals and pituitary are harmoniously diminished at this
time, and in the same ratio, amenorrhea is established,
with normal atrophy of the internal genitalia, and no
signs of hyperpituitarism, hyperthyroidism, hyper-
drenalism or hyperovarianism.
If the ovaries regress too rapidly we have flushes, due
to too sudden loss of ovarian stimulus and too much
posterior pituitary activity. This may also give rise to
hypo-activity of the thyroid. At this period we may
have a transitory :fluctuation between the ovaries,
pituitary, suprarenals and thyroid, because of an unstable
nervous system. Doubtless this was originally well-
named by the laity as " change of life," because of the
many sudden changes which do manifest when the
endocrines are out of balance, as they usually are at the
menopause.
This again shows how the endocrine glands represent
balance in the body. (See Atlas under Mental Diseases.)
It is well-known that we often find a complete imbalance
of the mental at the period of climacteric, if the posterior
pituitary remains too high and the thyroid too low. There
may be a tendency to high blood pressure; hence at this
time of life the nervous system must be thought of, for
this may cause gastro-intestinal disturbances to enter the
picture. Therefore the pancreas must also be watched.
Endocrinology 69
If the pituitary is overactive at this period, we may
look for fibromata; if the pituitary is too low, we may
find weakness almost like that caused by the imbalance
of the suprarenals. Thus it will readily be seen how much
depends on the endocrine system, and how watchful the
doctor should be-not forgetting all other points in the
'' blue print '' which must be correlated with these
endocrine findings, and the fact that everything possible
should be done to relieve the patient.
Many disagreeable menopause symptoms have been
relieved by normalizing on the sympathetic nerves. (We
have a case history of early menopause symptoms en-
tirely overcome and normal cycle re-established, continu-
ing for fifteen years with comfort of both mind and body.)
Here is a very satisfying point in the Drown System
of Diagnosis. Often a patient will come. in with meno-
pause symptoms. Many times the diagnosis will show
that these are merely nervous symptoms, and she can be
told definitely that her condition is not due to menopause.
Sometimes in amenorrhea with possible pregnancy the
question can be settled quickly and surely by means of
the H.V.R. diagnosis.
In all cases of metrorrhagia or menorrhagia, keep in
mind the mammary, thyroid, pituitary and suprarenal
glands, as well as the ovaries. All these should be
normalized.
Case report : Sarcoma of the uterus
Mrs. B.-enlarged uterus, tipped back against the
rectum, causing constipation; also bladder trouble,
hemorrhoids, headache (top). Patient extremely nervous;
thought she would have to stop teaching. Glands un-
balanced. No disease elsewhere in body.
Both tumour and symptoms disappeared in three
months, and have not returned. Patient made rapid
progress because all treatment was concentrated on the
glands and uterus. At the beginning, her husband was
quite sceptical.
From an early H.V.R. Journal:
'' In lympho-sarcoma the pituitary is always deficient
-usually both lobes. The rate for this gland, directed
70 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
into the skin, has been known to heal cases in which the
draining could not be stopped by any other method.''
Also the rate for the thyroid, directed into the eye,
tends to remove the blod-shot condition of corneal ulcer.
Case report : Slight goitre
Mrs. K.-r9 years old; married one year. The goitre
did not show much outwardly except at menstruation ..
at which times it was more noticeable; caused coughing;
also interfered with swallowing; deficient menstruation;
this was always late; patient grew tired easily.
She was treated for one year. This woman had a
tubercular diathesis; very low-functioning spleen; but
her age and definite cooperation were in her favour. She
regained her health, gained fifteen pounds, and acted
like a different individual. Her height was about five feet
six inches, weight about ro2. At the end of the year
she went to the eastern part of the United States, and
this past year has given birth to a child, with no return
of any goitre symptoms during her pregnancy, not even
the ordinary nausea of this period. Her glandular system
was very much out of balance.
The hypothyroid and hyperpituitary are usually re-
lated to high blood pressure.
In all rheumatic and arthritic conditions, watch the
thyroid. Remember that it sensitizes every organ and
cell in the body to symp~thetic stimulation. By way of
analysis, notice the change in the features of the pregnant
woman. This is classified under the anterior pituitary
(hyper), resembles acromegaly, and recedes after all is
over and the glands again return to balance. It shows
the cooperation ·between the endocrines and the other
parts of the body.
DISEASES DIAGNOSED AND TREATED WITH THE H.V.R.
Actinomycosis-originally found in cattle. Later
discovered in the bodies of individuals who had to do
with the handling of cattle and that particular phase of
activity. It is a parasitic infectious disease, due to the
Endocrinology
development of the Actinomyces, a ray fungus. It is
no longer considered rare, but is quite common, and in
the lungs may be confused with tuberculosis.
Symptoms vary according to the locality of the dis-
ease. It is inclined to be chronic and exceptionally
rapid. In cattle it has been called " lumpy jaw," since
it usually attacks that part of the body of an animal.
It is composed of granulation tissue, such as is found in
a tumour, and previous to suppuration is quite firm,
surrounded by diffuse edema. After suppuration occurs,
it increases rapidly in size. It may develop in almost
any part of the body. When it attacks the respiratory
tract it will be found less severe in winter-contrary to
ordinary bronchial troubles, which are worse in winter.
In the brain it produces headache and paralysis of
the sixth cranial nerve, and congestion of the opti€
papilla, with attacks of unconsciousness.
The ray fungus may be carried in on an ear of corn,
lodge in a carious tooth, and finally reach the brain
through the right cavernous sinus to the base of the brain.
Here it will set up a meningitis and small abscesses,
burrowing through the pituitary body and sella turcica to
the cavernous sinus of the left side.
Actinomycosis may be confused with carcinoma,
tuberculosis, sarcoma, syphilis or lupus. Etiology:
patient may be infected from vegetables, water and dairy
products. It attacks all ages, and forms fistulous open-
ings, possibly resulting in amyloid degeneration.
Actinomycosis is a pyemic condition; cc;msequently it
taxes the lymph stream, since this is the Body's defence
against pyogenic infection. A variety of drugs may be
prescribed for treatment, but better than any drug is the
H.V.R., which is safe and sure.
Psittacosis-this is an epidemic disorder of parrots,
transmissible to .man. In the human being, symptoms
are very similar to those of typhoid fever, but differen-
tiated by Weidel's test and the characteristic blood
picture. Psittacosis is often complicated by pneumonia,
the incubation period being from seven to twelve days.
It comes on insidiously with lassitude, malaise, headache,
nausea and constipation. At the onset there is a marked
Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
chill. The temperature rises rapidly to 102 or 104
degrees; the pulse registers from roo to 120; there is
quickening breathing, coughing, and bloody expectora-
tion. The course of psittacosis runs from fifteen to
twenty days.
Eczema-a very common condition of the skin, now
usually known as dermatitis. Many times this is treated
with various lotions, ointments, etc., without seeking for
the cause. Therefore the Drown System, which always
endeavours to find the cause, stands far ahead of any
other method in the diagnosis and treatment of this irri-
tating trouble.
Some pJople seem to think that all skin disease is
eczema; this is one very good reason for naming it
dermatitis. It sounds more important-consequently the
patient is more ready and anxious that the cause be
found.
Dermatitis is really a catarrhal inflammation of the
skin, particularly of the epidermis. It is characterized
by redness; papules; various-sized vesicles, weeping,
crusting and scaling. This is followed by a thickening
of the skin. Thus we have interstitial edema and cell
infiltration. The condition may be acute, sub-acute or
chronic.
There are always two factors to consider:
(1) a precipitating agent.
(2) a special disposition of the skin-in other words,
a fertile soil.
In dermatitis the skin often itches and burns. There
are numerous ·varieties, affecting the extremities of the
body and the joints, although other areas are not exempt.
The trouble is quite common in infants and young
children.
Like most other dysfunctions of the body, eczema has
an endocrine basis; therefore we may find thyroid or
suprarenal insufficiency, hyperovarism, or low pan-
creatic function.
The skin is an organ, reflecting accurately the state
and activities of the internal mechanism. It develops
with the deeper vital structures, is intimately connected
Endocrinology 73
with these by nerves and blood vessels, is subject to the
same internal influences, and plays an important part in
certain metabolic processes, such as storage of pigments,
etc. It represents protection in the body.
Every organ or part serves through the process of
specialization in some particular function. Thus hyper-
thyroidism may produce diarrhea in the intestines;
brilliancy of mind in the brain; fibrillation in the heart,
and sweating in the skin-each of these parts of the body
showing increased activity.
The following will give some idea of the skin picture
from the endocrine standpoint:
Hyper and hypothyroidism-hyposuprarenals.
Hyper and hypopituitarism-hypogonads.
Hyperinsulinism.
Hypo and hyperparathyroidism.
Anemia-since this condition has to do with blood
directly, let us consider the blood for a moment. This
vital fluid performs many functions. Through its circu-
lation it regulates the coordinated activity and inter-
relationships of all cells; furnishes them with food and
oxygen; carries off their waste products; provides for
their growth and repair; maintains for them an equable
temperature and their normal alkalinity, and transports
the products of the ductless glands to the particular
organs and cells which require them for function. The
blood also heals conditions through its clotting
mechanism. The H.V.R. Atlas states that the blood
represents mental activity-and does this not prove it?
In anemia the blood is reduced in amount, or is
deficient in red blood-corpuscles·. There are several
different types of anemia, due to different causes, giving
different blood pictures, and manifesting different symp-
toms.
Primary anemia occurs as an independent disease, re-
sulting from a disturbance in function of the blood-form-
ing organs. Incidentally, some writers claim there is
no such entity as primary anemia.
Secondary anemia is also called symptomatic anemia,
the blood being depleted through some local or general
74 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
disease, auto-intoxication, chronic poisoning, or inani-
tion. The blood volume is lessened; erythrocytes
diminished; haemoglobin diminished; colour index
lowered, but rarely falling below 0.7, with a slight
leukocytosis; polynuclears are increased.
Secondary anemia may result from rickets, scurvy,
tuberculosis, pneumonia, syphilis, and many other
diseases and conditions.
There are various types of secondary anemia, such
as tho~e which are infectious and toxic. Trophic anemia
would be of nutritional origin.
The main pathology in secondary an~mia is in the
blood and the bone marrow. In the latter stages there
is a poikilocytosis, and megalocytes and macrocytes
appear. Usually the erythrocytes and haemoglobin are
in proportionate reduction.
Pallor is the first characteristic symptom. Others
are cardiovascular, wastro-intestinal and nervous dis-
turbances and dropsical swellings.
Splenic anemia is less common. This is accompanied
by a leukopenia, although the colour index rarely falls
below 0.7. Polynuclears are increased.
Splenic anemia is not so different from other
secondary anemias, but is easily recognized by the en-
largement of the spleen, without enlargement of other
glands. The presence of normoblasts and poikilocytes,
and an increase in polynuclears and all other forms of
leukocytes, especially lymphocytes, are characteristic.
Pressure is the greatest element.
Chlorosis is not secondary anemia. It occurs at
puberty; has a low colour index (as low as 0.5); red
cells and haemoglobin are low; leukocytes are normal in
number. However, there may be a leukopenia.
Symptoms : a greenish tinge to the skin; menstrual dis-
turbances; perverted appetite; indigestion; constipation,
and slight enlargement of the thyroid.
Pernicious anemia. Here the first striking character-
istic of the blood is the high colour index, usually over
r. It increases in proportion to the diminution of the
red blood cells, with leukopenia seldom above 6,000,
Endocrinology 75
lymphocytosis rarely below 40 per cent., megalocytes,
normoblasts and poikilocytosis.
As a rule, pernicious anemia develops very in-
sidiously. The most pronounced symptom is the pallor
of the face and body. This gradually becomes extreme,
accompanied by great weakness; dyspnea and palpita-
tion on exertion; regular pulse, but soft and compressible,
with l:l,loud venous hum in the neck. There are dropsical
symptoms, and a sore tongue. The latter may produce
a burning sensation.
Leukemia is easily distinguished from secondary
anemia by its distinctive blood picture, as well as its
objective symptoms. In the myelogenous form, the
combination of high leukocyte count and excessive
myelocytes is conclusive. With this condition the spleen
is enormous. In the lymphatic type there is a high
lymphocytosis and enlargement of lymphatic glands.
Typhoid fever. A slight increase in the erythrocytes
manifests in the early stages. Later, these decrease.
There is a normal or-diminished leukocyte count and a
moderate lymphocytosis. If haemorrhage occurs, the
erythrocytes may decrease, and there may be a slight
leukocytosis. If perforation occurs, the leukocytes in-
crease very rapidly, perhaps reaching I5,ooo or more.
Malaria is characterized by an increase in the large
lymphocytes, although the leukocyte count may remain.
normal. Anemia is usually present.
Scarlet fever and whooping cough. In scarlet fever
the leukocytes manifest as high as 20,000 to 60,000, with
an increase in polynuclears of from 80 to 90 per cent.
In whooping cough there is a lymphocytosis.
Influenza and measles. When these are without
complications, leukocytosis does not occur.
Rheumatism shows a leukocytosis reaching 20,000 or
more with complications such as endocarditis or myocar-
ditis, pneumonia, etc.
Tuberculosis gives. a normal leukocyte count. How-
ever, there may be a lymphocytosis.
Syphilis. In this we have anemia of the secondary
type, with a moderate increase in white corpuscles and a
lymphocytosis.
76 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
Carcinoma of the stomach. Here there is a secondary
anemia; a low colour index (0.63) and a slight leuko-
cytosis (12,000 to 18,000, mainly polynuclears. These
range from 80 to 90 per cent.) It is possible for the colour
index to be high and for megaloblasts and megalocytes
to manifest.
Ulcer of stomach. This may be caused by alcoholic
cirrhosis of the liver or hydatid cyst. In such cases there
is a secondary anemia without leukocytosis, while in
abscess of the liver leukocytosis is present. In hydatid
cyst, eosinophilia is usually found.
DISORDERS OF THE GENITO-URINARY TRACT
While located in close proximity to one another, the
male genital tract and urinary system have only the
lower portion of their excretory function in common, both
anatomically and physiologically. There is a vast
difference in the effect which the endocrine glands exert
upon the two systems, yet genito-urinary specialists
handle both as one.
Nephrosis shows marked edema and albuminuria;
blood cholesterol is very high and basal metabolism very
low. Here we have a picture of the failure of the water-
logged tissues to respond to oxidizing excitation, which
causes tremendous excretion of albumin. In turn, 'this
reduces the plasma proteins, with a consequent reduction
in plasma density and an increased vascular permeability,
producing the characteristic edema.
This gives one a complete picture on paper of the pro-
cess of nephrosis. The same picture can be produced
through the H.V.R., diagnosing (through the attention),
analyzing (visualizing), and correlating (applying), every
step of the way. By the same method we proceed to
treat anasarca, excessive albuminuria and high specific
gravity.
Hydronephrosis-This condition may be congenital.
Accompanied by other evidences of maldevelopment,
usually hyperthymic and hypothyroid intra-uterine
(transmitted through the mother), it nearly always proves
fatal in a few days. Cases of survival are difficult to
Endocrinology 77
handle. In extra-uterine life, hydronephrosis is usually
acquired from ptosis of the kidney, kinking of the ureter,
or pressure from tumours or adhesions. All these c.:on-
ditions have their corresponding vibratory rate in the
Drown Atlas. Where hydronephrosis is due to ptosis or
kinking, the patient will be asthenic, with gonadal de-
ficiency or pituitary hypofunction.
Nephritis-in renal diseases we may have a hyper-
posterior pituitary, because it influences blood pressure,
inhibits diuresis, and, in part, regulates salt and water
metabolism. Therefore some of the symptoms of renal
failure may be due to an overfunction of the posterior
pituitary.
In glomerulonephritis the blood cholesterol is greatly
increased, which might indicate a low thyroid.
Movable kidney-this is more often found in thin, long-
chested people who may have ptosis or prolapsus of other
organs, usually with low gonadal function.
Nephrolithiasis-renal calculi. This is an expression
of hyperparathyroid function. In hyperparathyroidism
the calcium and phosphorus, such as calcium phosphate,
are stored in the parenchyma of the kidney. The calculi
may be single and large, or there may be many small
stones, also granular casts, in the tubules.
Acute Bright's disease-This is due usually to
some acute infection such as influenza, scarlet fever, etc.,
with the following symptoms: headaches, restlessness,
muscular twitchings, nausea, vomiting, tense pulse,
moderate fever, dropsy and anemia. Tube casts and
albuminuria are constant. If these do not occur the
trouble is not true nephritis, which shows urine
diminished and sooty in colour, with the presence of red
and white corpuscles. These make the diagnosis positive.
Such a condition may cause pleural, pericardia! or
peritoneal dropsy, as well as anasarca.
Chronic Bright's disease-gives the same picture as
the acute form, but a more severe one because of the
more extensive changes taking place. Symptoms may
vary from time to time, due to subacute exacerbations.
When the urine is scanty, the specific gravity will be
Drown H.V.R. and Radio-Vision
high. In serious cases there may be dropsy of the serous
sacs, causing distressing symptoms such as dyspnea,
cardiac if lying down. It may be provoked by vaso-
constriction, and is in such instances a signal of uremia;
or it may be catarrhal bronchitis, hypertrophy of the left
ventricle, later dilation and weakness of both ventricles.
Interstitial nephritis-this is a chronic diffuse inflam-
mation of the kidneys, showing a growth of connective
tissue in the stroma, degeneration and atrophy of the
renal parenchyma, also marked changes in the vascular
system. Such a condition may cause no symptoms for
years while the morbid changes are going on. This is
why we must dig deep in the search for causes, under-
lying causes and obscure causes. We must not feel that
we can skim the surface; that the instrument will do the
rest-such an attitude will result only in disappointment
and ultimate discouragement, which must not be. Care-
lessness can bring discredit on any system, no matter how
fine it is. No other method accomplishes what the Drown
System does, both in diagnosis and treatment. So let
each one make up his mind that a perfect '' blue print ''
is never too much trouble, and thus be one hundred per
cent in service. And it is service-not work.
Interstitial ·nephritis may go on until late in life, at
which time the patient may develop a severe case of
pneumonia, pericarditis, or some such trouble. Then it
is discovered that a degenerated kidney condition must be
dealt with. Grave renal symptoms appear, such as head-
ache with stupor, convulsions, nausea, vomiting and
tense pulse. Partial recovery may take place, with the
patient a little better but still miserable because of drowsi-
ness, headache, indigestion, failing vision, lassitude,
dyspnea and frequent micturition. Then there will be
another uremic attack. Thus it goes on and on until it
proves fatal.
Because of the polyuria, diabetes is sometimes con-
fused with interstitial nephritis. With the H.V.R. this
should not happen.
Gastric symptoms are among the first in nephritis. A
diagnosis of chronic interstitial nephritis is warranted if
persistent slight albuminuria develops, with casts, large
amounts of clear, pale urine and low specific gravity.
Endocrinology 79
Contracted kidney-this gives the following complica-
tions:, pleuritis, endocarditis, pericarditis, cerebral
haemorrhage, endarteritis, pneumonia, either lobular or
lobar, laryngitis, bronchitis, hepatic cirrhosis, gastritis,
enteritis, peritonitis, meningitis, emphysema, phthisis
and mental disorders.
Amyloid kidney-is due to various causes such as
syphilis, tuberculosis, etc.; or it may develop following
low fevers or Bright's disease. We find urine output in-
creased; specific gravity slightly diminished (r.015 to
r.0005); clear, but showing a little sediment on standing;
casts, hyalin, fatty and granular. In the latter stages the
urine is diminished because of the degeneration, and we
have anemia and debility; not often much dropsy; trans-
parent complexion; degeneration of the· blood; often
diarrhea and vomiting, and enlargement of the liver and
spleen. Amyloid kidney is always associated with a
similar condition in some other organs and some wasting
disease.
Cystitis-quite common, and many times found in the
diabetic patient; also in one subject to colds, various
infections, or too-concentrated urine, due to lack of
ingestion of water. Tumours, enlarged uterus or prostate,
malposition of uterus or pregnancy may cause like
symptoms from pressure. H.V.R. diagnosis will
differentiate these. Such conditions of pressure, if con-
tinued, may so interfere with the emptying of the bladder
that it becomes a fertile field for infection.
Enuresis-this is usually of functional origin. Hypo-
thyroidism is sometimes present here.
Paralysis of the bladder-may be caused by a
degenerative spinal cord, or changes in the patella and
achilles tendon reflexes, which are usually decreased or
absent in such cases. A polyneuritis may develop.
Tuberculosis-this may manifest anywhere along the
genito-urinary tract. Usually it is associated with this
condition in other organs.
Calculi-in the ureter, these give rise to attacks of renal
colic. This depends on whether they become arrested in
their course or pass on freely. Impacted calculi may
cause hydronephrosis if near the pelvis of the kidney.
.
80 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
There will be pain and tenderness on pressure somewhere
along the course at the lower part of the ureter. A stone
may be felt by the finger through the rectum or vagina.
This may be productive of symptoms of cystitis.
There are .anomalies of both kidneys and ureter,
sometimes due to endocrine dysfunction, or perhaps to
a faulty rotation in utero.
DISEASES OF THE GASTRO-INTESTINAL TRACT
Except for the sphincters, the gastro-intestinal tract
is under parasympathetic control, so that stimulation
of the vagus increases peristalsis and secretion of the
digestive juices, with simultaneous relaxation of the
sphincters.
For a moment let us discuss disorder of motility
-first, spasm of the sphincters (cardiac, pyloric,
ileocecal and anal). These sphincters are enervated by
the sympathetic nervous system, therefore any disease
that affects it in a stimulating manner, or increases its
sensitivity, must cause a sudden contraction of the
sphincter muscles.
Thus in hyperthyroidism we may have contractions
of one or more of these sphincters with varying degrees
of atony in the gastro-intestinal wall. (It is a good plan
to use the rate for the posterior pituitary into that area
to tone it up.) Such conditions are known as cardio-
spasm, pylorospasm, etc. In hypothyroidism we have
a spasticity of the sphincters alone, or with a spasm of
hypcrperistalsis of the gastro-intestinal wall. Here the
lack of calcium sensitizes practically every myoneural
function, be it sympathetic or parasympathetic in nature.
Spasmophilia in infants and children, pregnancy and
lactation, with a resulting calcium loss, may result in
sphincter spasm.
In these conditions, remember Vitamin D in foods.
The trouble also may be caused by low gonad or pituitary
function, or a deficiency in calcium which may be due
to faulty distribution or lack of absorption through the
intestinal wall as a result of low-functioning parathyroids.
We have this clinical picture in Addison's disease in
vomiting, cramps, diarrhea, nausea, etc. Normalize the
Endocrinology Sr
sympathetics, because they are low in function. This
allows the vagus to overstimulate. Remember this in.all
cases under sympathetic control. Much may be done to
relieve these painful conditions by normalizing with the
rate for sympathetics plus that of the involved area.
Hypermotility-the orderly motility of the gastro-
intestinal tract is in part the result of the automatic motor
mechanism in the smooth muscle tissue itself, stimulated
by the presence of the intestinal contents, and is de-
pendent upon the muscular nutrition. Of course many
other factors concerned with the individual enter in, but
after all it is the interaction of the sympathetic and para-
sympathetic nerves which determines whether these pro-
cesses shall go on in an orderly, normal fashion, or be
spasmodic and irregular. It must be remembered that
the sympathetic system is controlled by the thyroid and
suprarenal glands; it accelerates body processes through-
out the human organism except in the intestines, where
it retards motility. The vagus slows the heart and in-
creases gastric motility.
Sudden attacks of diarrhea may be caused by an
allergic response to some ingested food. It might seem
that nature decided to dilute the offending material, so
she created a change in the osmotic tension and poured
in fluid.
Gastric hypersecretion (as regurgitation, nausea and
vomiting) may also result from vagotonia.
Hypomotility and constipation-in this condition we
have atony, relaxed walls. The stomach fails to empty
properly; prolonged fermentation causes gas, and we
have or may have a chronically dilated, weakened organ.
However, after diagnosing such a case with the H.V.R.
we proceed to re-establish normal balance by treatment
with the same instrument.
In the intestinal canal, lack of peristalsis causes an
atonic constipation. This is commonly observed in
asthenic and malnourished individuals.
In another type of constipation, motility is impeded
at various points by a spastic contraction of the circular
muscular fibres. This holds portions of the food column
imprisoned, as it were, and the constant to-and-fro motion
Drown H.V.R. and Radio-Vision
abstracts water, leaving the mass hardened. Such a con-
dition is called spastic constipation. Lack of water in
the system (not drinking enough) will also cause spastic
constipation, for nature must have water. She uses it
everywhere, and if we do not drink a sufficient quantity
she will reabsorb it from the intestines or bladder to
supply even the saliva of the mouth or the fluid of the
eye.
Constipation may result from excessive activity of
either the parasympathetic or the glandular system, or
an imbalance between the two. This in turn may be due
to endocrine imbalance and a faulty interaction of the
hormones-so watch the glands. One thing remains
certain-constipation with its many causes is one of, if
not the most common complaint that comes to the doctor.
Mucous colitis-either simple or ulcerative, is very dis-
tressing, but quickly handled with H.V.R. and diet.
Gas retention-gives great discomfort. In such cases,
remember the thyroid and gonads.
Disorders of secretion-under this classification we
have increase in salivation. In early pregnancy this
may mean hyperthyroid, which may come from hypo-
ovarianism. In diabetes, the salivary secretion may
either increase or decrease; in the latter case it causes
abnormal dryness of the mouth. . This occurs both in
diabetes mellitus and insipidus. Thyroid and pituitary
deficiency may also be responsible for such a condition.
Gastric hyperacidity and hypoacidity-here we have
two other opposites. In hyperacidity there is vomiting
of acid fluids, heart-bum, pain and regurgitation. At
once it is clear that all these symptoms may possibly be
due to an overstimulation of the sympathetics through
the hyperfunction of the thyroid or suprarenals. This is
often a precursor to peptic ulcer, chronic indigestion or
dyspepsia, giving us our cases of nervous indigestion.
With an oversecretion of gastric juice, concomitant with
gastric and duodenal ulcer, we find acid eructations, pain
and heart-bum two or three hours after eating.
We may ask how the sympathetics create hyperacidity
if they decrease the digestive juices. Again, the en-
Endocrinology
docrines enter the picture. When the thyroid over-
functions, it may increase the H.C.L.
In gastric subacidity, the H.C.L. is lacking in vary-
ing degrees. The condition may manifest in hypo or
hyperthyroidism, diabetes, tetany, Addison's disease,
pernicious anemia, etc. As subacidity never occurs in
normal individuals, it warrants a very careful diagnosis.
It is most characteristic in pernicious anemia. Wolf
states, '' When you find hypochlorhydria always watch
for pernicious anemia-even though the blood picture
does not show it-because it may develop later."
Disorders in circulation-under this classification we
have haemorrhage, as from diabetes in combination with
disease of the liver; varices in the esophagus or stomach
may rupture and bleed. Some splenic diseases may cause
this. If bleeding from the stomach occurs at regular
i:qtervals, think of vicarious menstruation.
Edema-of the mucous membrane of the gastro-
intestinal tract may be due to a food allergy, resulting
from an underlying suprarenal insufficiency.
Haemorrhoids-this is a congestion of the veins of the
rectum caused by constipation or spasmodic contraction
of the anal sphincter or the anal canal, thus becoming
a secondary complication in the endocrine disorders in
which constipation and spasm are prominent symptoms.
Constipation may also occur in obesity and pregnancy;
here are added causes appearing in the form of
mechanical pressure, making for weakened venous walls.
Congenital· and acquired abnormalities-among
these are pharyngeal diverticula, Meckel's diverticulum
and many other congenital abnormalities caused by
extreme dysfunction in the thymus or thyroid of parents,
or of the child itself in utero; among acquired abnormali-
ties we have visceroptosis and a kindred condition in
extra-uterine life, either slowing up or speeding up gastro-
intestinal function.
Inflammation and ulceration-under this heading we
may think of stomatitis, gastritis, colitis and peptic ulcer.
Then we have the disease of the liver, biliary tract and
F2
Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
pancreas, causing liver atrophy, hepatitis, floating liver,
jaundice, cholecystitis and cholelithiasis.
Disorders of the pancreas proper-among these may
be listed pancreatitis, diabetes, etc.
Allergy in the gastro-intestinal tract and all the con-
ditions we have mentioned always have a cause, both
predisposing and exciting, producing the· end product,
dysfunction. And always, if a careful H.V.R. diagnosis,
analysis and correlation have been made, we shall find
endocrine dysfunction back of it.
There are a few important symptoms common to and
associated with these endocrinopathies, as:
(r) Nausea and vomiting.
(2) Abdominal pain.
(3) Hunger pain.
(4) Increased or decreased appetite.
(5) Excessive thirst.
Of course we are considering all these various con-
ditions, their diagnosis and treatment, from the stand-
point of the Drown System of Therapeutics. To use this
method successfully, we must be able to make a complete
'' blue print '' -then be able to read it. And to read it
we must, through study and training, be capable of
analyzing and correlating all our findings. When we
have done this our success begins-patients' looks ot
misery shortly change to those of happiness as they come
for their treatments. Many look forward to these treat-
ments, as they invariably feel better after them.
However, do not forget the mental side of every case.
Sometimes a heart-to-heart talk will accomplish as much
good as the treatment. Remember what worry and fear
do to the body through the endocrines.
Diagnosis and treatment must be directed toward
causes, for unless we remove causes, how can we expect
to produce permanently normal functioning of the gastro-
intestinal tract?
It is easy to see the importance of this particular
portion o.fthe body, since at the present stage of evolu-
tion we must eat to live, and not only this--we must also
digest, assimilate, absorb and eliminate to live, at least
to live· comfortably.
Endocrinology
It is indeed difficult to decide which part of the body
is most important, since every part seems all-necessary.
Thus we can come to only one conclusion-that we are
'' fearfully and wonderfully made,'' and that the One
who made us knew His '' blue print '' pretty well, as
we are all made very much alike.
OBESITY AS RELATED TO THE ENDOCRINE GLANDS
We know that, whatever else is at fault, obesity comes
through the metabolic processes-the fat must be manu-
factured from the carbohydrates, and somewhat from
protein metabolism. The trouble is caused primarily by
food. But this is only one small point in the difficulty.
If food were the one and only cause we could easily solve
the problem, in that every case of obesity could be
corrected through regulation of diet. This we have found
is not true, even though many pounds may be lost. As
soon as the patient returns to the regular diet he begins
to gain, showing that the fault was not in the ingestion
of food, but in the way the body took care of that food.
From this analysis we realize that there must be some-
thing wrong with the mechanism.
Since in the study of the endocrine glands we have
found that nearly every pathological condition to which
individuals are heir can be traced directly or indirectly
to these glands, naturally we may conclude that obesity
has its fundamental cause there. For in the Drown
System of Therapy we know, by this time, that we must
look for causes.
We quote from Sajous' Analytic Cyclopedia of
Practical Jfedicine: '' Obesity is an abnormal accumula-
tion of fat in the subcutaneous or other tissues, due to
deficient oxidation of fats formed from ingested starches
and fat and somewhat, though less actively, from
proteins. ' '
Why does the body not carry on this process of
oxidation? It should-we are beings who, at this time
in our evolution, must ingest food to live; likewise we
must also metabolize it.
There are various types of obesity, each deriving its
name from the gland most concerned-as the pituitary
86 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
type, thyroid type, ovarian type, etc. And in each of
these, due to the particular endocrine gland of dysfunc-
tion, we find that the fat is distributed to certain parts,
thus becoming a characteristic of that gland dysfunction.·
A further classification lists endogenous and
e:xogenous causes-that is, the balance between the in-
take and output of food that is not used in anabolism is
waste. If the catabolic function, elimination, etc., is
abnormal, we have waste remaining in the body-fat to
be deposited. We also know that we have fat sparers,
such as alcohol. The body can bum alcohol for fuel
more easily than fat, so the fat is retained.
Ahother meaning given by some writers to this idea
of endogenous and exogenous causes is that there are
two types of obesity-one due to the foods taken into the
body, the other to the dysfunction of i.he endocrine
glands.
The endocrines most concerned in obesity are the
pituitary, gonads, thyroid, pancreas and the suprarenal
cortex. Seldom is a single gland at fault.
Directly or indirectly, the pituitary heads the list of
glandular responsibility. Someone has called it the
'' leader of the endocrine orchestra.''
The entire pituitary may be at fault, in that the
anterior lobe is concerned with the gonads. Many cases
of obesity are associated with the sex function, which is
directly under the control of the anterior pituitary.
Again, obesity is connected with disturbance of water
metabolism, and this is governed by the posterior
pituitary and diencephalon through the various brain
nuclei in the floor of the third ventricle.
A more remote reason for the responsibility of the
pituitary is injury to the nerves or brain, which often
causes obesity. The posterior pituitary is made up of
nervous tissue, and also stimulates all nervous tissue.
The thyroid and suprarenals may act through the
anterior pituitary.
When you locate pituitary trouble, low functioning,
inquire if the patient has had typhoid fever. This will
cause low pituitary function, and thus may be an obscure
point in diagnosis of the obese individual.
Endocrinology
There is a particular type of pituitary obesity known
as basophilic adenoma, in which hirsutism, bluish
striations on the abdomen and thighs, weak back, head-
ache and high blood pressure are present.
In pituitary obesity the fat is general, but especially
deposited around the waist, as girdle obesity.
Gonadal obesity is probably due largely to combined
dysfunction of the gonads and pituitary. This occurs
more in women than in men. Ovarian hypofunction
might be assumed as a cause here; we know that removal
of the ovaries, producing premature menopause, usually
results in deposit of adipose tissue, ·often characteristically
around waist, hips, thighs, upper arms and breasts.
It has been claimed by some writers that the tendency
to obesity in young women at the present time may be
due to restricted child bearing. That is, suppression of
the natural functions of reproduction and non-use of the
fema.leresources for bearing and nourishing the foetus in
the uterus must be reflected in the release of fluids and
energy into the organism. These can be utilized only in
building new tissue, therefore the result is obesity.
There is also gonadal obesity occurring at puberty,
pregnancy and menopause, arising either naturally or
artificially.
Again, there is thyroid obesity. Since the thyroid is
the incinerator of the body, if it does not bum up waste
(when oxidation is low), that waste is retained in the
cellular structure. It is sometimes called " cellular
clinkers "-half-destroyed cellular waste products due to
poor combustion. This waste interferes with osmosis
and actually swells or " water-logs " the inactive cells.
Such a condition might be considered dropsical; not,
however, as in organic troubles, but causing an increase
in fat because of the fact that when the thyroid is not
working the parathyroids are overworking, and one of
their functions is to build fat.
This type of obese individual may sometimes look
much larger than he actually is by weight-his size may
be due to puffiness. Here the anterior pituitary is at
fault also, as it assists in the water metabolism of the
body.
88 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
Another type is that of pancreatic obesity, or hyper-
insulinism. If the islands of Langerhans are low in
function the patient may be stimulated toward the in-
gestions of sweets and starches, and soon form a habit.
After a time this may cause the islands to overfunction.
In such case;; the diet must be regulated, because the
more ingestion the more insulin; the more insulin, the
more ingestion.
The old saying '' Drink and grow fat '' really had a
foundation, inasmuch as the metabolism of water plays
quite an important part in obesity. This is under the
control of the posterior pituitary and diencephalon, the
thyroid and suprarenals. Peripherally it is regulated by
the four emunctories-the kidneys, skin, lungs and
intestines. We must also note the blood vessels and
capillaries, and the differences in osmotic pressure be-
tween the capillaries and the surrounding tissues. Any
disturbance in any of these factors will lead to retention
of water. However, this does not result in edema.
Now for the pathology which obesity may cause. In
pituitary obesity there is a fatty infiltration into the
viscera, especially the liver. It might be complicated
by a basophilic adenoma, and this might result in
osteoporosis of the bone. The suprarenals may show
hyperfunction; in fact, they may be quite hypertrophied.
In the female, when the ovaries and thyroid are hypo in
function there is deficient menstruation.
If pituitary obesity occurs in childhood, the secondary
sex characteristics do not appear. If obesity of this type
develops in the adult, the genitalia remain unaltered but
the gonads may atrophy, causing amenorrhea in the
female and impotence in the male.
With the complication of basophilic adenoma, the
obesity is very rapid and sometimes very painful; it is
confined to the face, neck and trunk. There is vascular
hypertension, blueness of the fingers, excessive appetite
and polyuria, abdominal pain, fatigue and weakness.
In thyroid obesity, the fat is more or less evenly dis-
tributed over the body, and we have a doughy, non-
pitting, lifeless skin. The latter is rough and dry, and
the hair is coarse, with a tendency to drop out. There is
Endocrinology
low blood pressure, profuse menstruation and a lazy,
sluggish disposition.
In gonadal obesity we might consider thyroid and
pituitary dysfunction in varying proportions. Here the
parathyroids also enter the picture, as they are really the
fat builders, utilizing the carbohydrates and starchy
foods in fat anabolism. The pancreas might also be
included in the group, since it plays a very important
part in digestion. This type of obesity is confined to
the breasts and the sides of the body from the axilla to
the iliac crest. It is seldom present in a woman under
thirty or a man under forty.
Some other symptoms of obesity are found in the
circulatory systems, which often suffer, due to retention
of fluids; kidney disturbances; there may be hyperten-
sion or hypotension, and an early arteriosclerosis, the
result of glandular dysfunction and embarrassment of the
heart. The latter may be surrounded by or infiltrated
with fat; sometimes there is a complete fatty degenera-
tion. Valvular troubles are not common in obesity, but
the patient will have those symptoms coming from em-
barrassment and weakness, such as dyspnea from slight
exertion; oppression; pain in the chest; dizziness; faint-
ing spells; cyanosis and palpitation. The gastro-
intestinal tract may be subject to disturbances; there may
be haemorrhoids and hernias from pressure interference;
also weakness of the vessel walls, the inside wall of the
arteries often showing fatty degeneration.
The skin may manifest various types of dermatitis,
due to parts rubbing together, excessive perspiration and
poor circulation. Upper respirator infection is common
in obesity; anemia is frequent; also diabetes; neuritis;
neuralgias, and many psychic disturbances. The in-
feriority complex is always present.
Differential points:
Obesity may be confused with edema or anasarca,
but the latter are apt to have begun more suddenly, with
an mvolvement of the liver, spleen, heart, kidney, etc.
Elephantiasis is due to obstruction of the lymph circu-
lation.
90 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
Gas distention in the abdomen sometimes simulates
obesity.
Posterior pituitary obesity may be distinguished from
myxedema by the apron-like fat over the abdomen in
the former condition; in myxedema the fat appears in
the breasts, face and neck as well as in the abdomen.
As to treatment and prognosis in cases of obesity,
much can be done with the progressive system. But if
there is considerable fatty degeneration, the condition is
serious. These patients do not bear infections well. If
for any reason surgery is necessary, this is fraught with
trouble. However, with the complete " blue print "
and the H.V.R. there is a much better outlook than would
be the case otherwise.
If the obesity is not advanced to the point of degenera-
tion there will be no difficulty. Use the H.V.R.,
glandular work, diet, and proper exercise, mental and
physical.
Some of the conditions which might follow from
obesity are: diabetes; arteriosclerosis; heart and kidney
troubles; pulmonary edema; chronic bronchitis; em-
physema; pneumonia; neuritis; rheumatism; psychosis;
mental disturbances; menstrual alterations; impotence.
The varying symptoms and sequelae naturally are due
to the type of gland involvement. Therefore the first
procedure would be to diagnose the glands, then proceed
with the complete diagnostic chart; from there, carry on
through correlation, analysis, etc., remembering that each
individual is a law unto himself.
Keep in mind inherited diseases; also tendencies,
familial, etc. ; peculiar predispositions ; instincts,
emotions and habits. Infectious diseases may also be a
clue.
As to cause, consider stress or strain as a possibility-
particularly with the female at the three critical periods:
puberty, pregnancy and menopause. Operations are
often a contributing factor.
But in every type of obesity the endocrine wheel is
at fault. Work it out with the H.V.R.-what it is, where
it is, and what to do about it.
Endocrinology 9r
Lectures Given by
Ruth B. Drown, Hollywood
Originally, the Drown H.V.R. was intended to be
used only for diagnosis. There was no thought of treat-
ing with it. In fact, there was no knowledge of its
possibilities along that line.
A patient suffering from a painful felon on her finger
came in for diagnosis. As a matter of experiment we had
her stand on the foot-pads of the instrument while we
touched the felon with the end of the cord. The pain
was relieved immediately.
No further proof was needed. Going downstairs to
our staff we announced the momentous fact that the
instrument would treat.
As it happened, there was a doctor in the office at
the time who had just brought his younger brother in
for diagno3is. The young man's leg was in a terrible
condition, enlarged and black below the knee. He was
in agony, and his temperature had gone up to ro3. The
doctor thought the leg would have to be opened and
scraped, but he wanted a diagnosis first, hoping to locate
the cause.
We diagnosed the case. This.was our first experience
with psoas abscess. Upon inquiry we learned that the
man had had a fall several years before, when he was
pitched from his bicycle head-on into a motor-car,
alighting on his back on the sacrum. Although we did
not learn of it then, his leg had also been injured to the
extent that an artery had to be tied off just below the
knee.
For treatment with the instrument, we put his feet on
the foot-pads and placed the electrode around his knee,
directly against the skin. First we normalized his glands
and treated the psoas abscess; also the streptococcus rate,
the veins, arteries and blood stream, and took him
through the entire routine. At the end of ~our hours the
swelling and pain were both gone, and at the end of six
hours the leg was normal. However, the cause was not
removed until several months later, when it drained of its
own accord.
92 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
THE PINEAL GLAND AND ITS RELATION TO THE
LIFE FORCE
We are told that the function of the pineal gland is.
unknown. Yet ancient writers had much to say concern-
ing it. They decided that the gland resembled a pine
cone, and from this it received its name, pineal.
The brain and its nervous structure are constructed
like a tree, with the " pine cone " as the top of the
branches. The pineal gland is considered as the entrance
of the Life Force into the body. Naturally little is known
of it, since it has more to do with the ethers, or this pure
Life Force, on which we have no way of checking other
than through the body function.
The pituitary has been termed the '' master gland ''
of the body, and represents the earth portion of life. The
earth signifies the female side of life, the pineal gland the
male or active side.
The double standard of life is said to have originated
because the male was thought to be greater than the
female-but the idea came from the fact that the activat-
ing Life Principle was God. This Principle came into
the body and ruled the pituitary.
The pituitary is thus the passive side and the .pineal
the active side of the same force. There is no separa-
tion between the pineal and the pituitary. They must
work together. In ancient days there was knowledge
and understanding of this. Actually, the active and the
passive Principles together make up a combination or
companionship, instead of one ruling the other.
On their vases and in all their art the Chinese have
pictured the pineal and pituitary glands, sometimes repre-
sented by the male and female fire-dogs, the tail of each
typifying a flame. The female, symbolizing the pituitary
and its infundibulum, stands with her right front paw
on the Pearl of the Lotus, or Life Force. The male dog,
signifying the pineal, is the companion of and works with
the female. The fiery serpent, represented by the spinal
cord, is always pictured seeking the Pearl. Should it
ever attain its goal, life would be destroyed.
Reading back into the ancient writings, one finds the
statement " Aum Mani Padme Hume," meaning " I
Endocrinology 93
AM the Pearl in the Lotus and there I shall ever remain.''
The ultimate of all this is to draw back the Life
Force up the spine into the brain, where the two glands,
guardians of this Force, may then work as one in perfect
harmony, with creation taking place through the brain.
It should be realized that the sex organs (meaning
sacred organs) are for the purpose of creating other
bodies only. One must bear in mind that the glands and
organs of the body have two functions, with both of
which we should always work. One is the invisible
function, or shall we say the invisible part each plays in
the world. The other is the physical or visible aspect-
visible only as it affects the outer body. Of course each
gland has its own particular function, as in the case of
the suprarenal, which is one of the points or centres
through which the Life Force comes.
All these glands are conductors of light, or Life Force,
but they mean nothing without the brain, over which the
main Life Force flows. According to an eminent
authority on endocrinology it is possible to remove the
brain and by using artificial respiration cause mechanical
function to take place in the rest of the body as long as
the cortex of the suprarenals is allowed to remain there.
But this is like taking a motor-car without an engine and
pushing it along. However, if the suprarenal glands are
removed from the body and the brain left in, the patient
dies at once.
When the brain is taken from the body, it is possible
to make those organs work mechanically which are work-
ing anyway, as the brain is only the floodgate through
which the Life Force flows. With the brain in, the ruling
entity is still there, which will offset·or prevent anything
outside coming in to rule the body. As long as that ruling
entity is present in any degree it will not permit outside
interference.
It is possible that taking these organs out and leaving
the brain in would cause a '' short '' to the brain. One
force would be working against another, interfering v.-ith
nature's natural, normal method. With the brain out,
that interference would have _been removed. Nothing
can be done mechanically while the brain is there.
94 Drown H.V.R. and Radio-Vision
We can cut off practically every part of the body
and live, but we cannot cut the head off and live without
it. It is an interesting fact, incidentally, that we can
have a toe, leg, arm or finger cut off, and still feel it as a
living part of the body.
After all, the ruling Intelligence of the body is the
only thing that makes it function. Push that ruling
Intelligence out entirely and there is no function. If it
is pu_shedout only to a small degree the body will still
function according to the amount left in. When the
entire brain is out there remains merely a machine.
If the liver is removed, the individual soon dies.
Anything taken out of the body in this way, leaving the
brain in, interferes ·with the Life Force. The heai:t can
be removed, a pin pushed through it, put in a normal salt
solution and it will beat inde:finitely, but not rhythmically.
To beat rhythmically, it must be controlled by the nerves
over which the Life Force flows.
Nothing anywhere in the world can equal nature
functioning in her natural, normal way. All machines
are patterned after her. The only thing that can be done
for people is to help them get closer to their Life Source.
Our work is therefore limitless, dealing with Life itself.
We are told that until the scientists attack their prob-
lems from the God-side of life, they will never be success-
ful. Everything is a manifestation of God-in-action, and
unless we regard it from that angle we are merely taking
a little portion and trying to include everything in it.
The lesser cannot include the greater.
A microscope has been made that magnifies 61,000
times. When we see that, and realize that the smallest
object we can observe under the ordinary microscope
can be still further magnified, and be identified as a
miniature duplication of something larger, we understand
the truth of the statement, "As above, so below."
How great are our own powers which we permit to
lie dormant within us. How much there is to learn, and
how little we really know! Yet we must learn and under-
stand ourselves first.
Our earth is the smallest of a galaxy of planets in this
Endocrinology 95
particular chain. It is difficult to conceive of the im-
mensity of Life !
Yet everyone must learn from his own small view-
point what it is all about, and come back to a realization
that some day we shall have the power to command all
this. But we must begin within ourselves. The en-
couraging thought is that we have the ability. No one
can say " no " to us but ourselves.
We have within us the latent power to become
Masters. We are potential Masters, even as the acorn
is a potential oak tree.
As we go along, we overcome and rule certain things,
but we must learn that the important thing to master is
the self. This influences our thoughts, minds and
bodies. All humans are potential gods, because of the
ability to keep themselves good.
ENDOCRINE THERAPY AND THE DROWN METHOD
(H. V.R. Journal, November, r93r)
The H.V.R. treats the endocrine system directly,
without the use of outside agents. However, research
and experiments in other laboratories have proved of
great value in combinations of gland treatments irt
different diseases. For instance, in treating for weakened
conditions with H.V.R. therapy, a combination rate of
suprarenal glands and gonads would be used.
In all cases of epilepsy which we have diagnosed, we
find a decided imbalance between the pituitary or pineal,
suprarenals and gonads. In each instance we have not
failed to discover a cystic tumour around either the
pituitary or pineal gland.
In many cases of rheumatism involving what we call
rheumatism of the nerves, a definite imbalance of the
endocrinal function of the gonads is noted. The rate for
uric acid, treated through the kidneys, joints and muscles,
will often alleviate the pain of so-called rheumatism.
In treatment for Kleig eyes, a condition often found
in the Kleig-lighted motion picture studios, normalizing
the internal function of the gonads has been known to
dear the eyes completely in a few hours' time. Also
96 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
treatment of the internal function of the gonads is used for
sinus troubles. These are helped as well by a combined
rate for normalizing the suprarenals and the spleen.
In the disease lymphosarcoma we have found that the
pituitary gland is always low in function, thus proving
the theory of some authorities that pituitrin given to such
a patient assists in healing the skin, for the pituitary
gland has a direct relation to the skin. The rate for this
gland, directed into the skin, has sometimes healed cases
in which the draining could not be stopped by any other
method.
In treating ulcers of the cornea (keratitis disciformis),
it has been found that directing the rate for the thyroid
gland into that of the eye in question will dissipate all
blood-shot appearance in the latter, while treatment with
the rate for inflammation through the arteries, veins and
lymp of the eye will cause the blood to flow excessively
into the ciliary vessels. An alternate use of these two
combination rates has proved of great benefit in dealing
with this trouble.
With the H.V.R. diagnosis, sprained ankle is easily
distinguishable from fracture. We invariably find that
in a case of sprain the ligaments will be torn from the
periostem, and there will be much inflammation of the
local arteries and veins. Treatment with the specific
rates for these findings cleared a severe case in two weeks'
time, while the actual pain was gone before the first two
hours.
Fractures may_be handled very easily by treating for
both inflammation and fracture into the periosteum of the
bone. ·
Checking from several instances, we have found that
in diseases of the spleen a great mental strain, such as
comes from worry or grief, is usually present back aDd
beyond the condition itself. The kidneys are generally
affected also, particularly in cases where these mental
states have existed.
Every doctor knows the case of true pernicious
anemia. He knows that there are periods when the
patient is worse than at others. We have discovered that
at such times treatment on the various rates for the
differential blood count, allotting five minutes to each,
r .
Radio-Visi on Photograph of a Diseased Prostate Gland Lobule, taken from
Blood Specimen, compared with Photograph of Histological Structure of a
Prostate Gland Lobule.
Endocrinology 97
will cause marked improvement in the individual's feel-
ings. However, we warn against strict elimination diet in
these conditions.
In children with this or with leukemia we have not
found liver of any help in treating, as liver only adds
more toxins. We have used liver extract and liver in raw
form, bone marrow, and everythi.ng that has been recom-
mended in this line, but have never yet seen that they
were of assistance. If the patient cannot take care of the
toxins he has, why should more be added?
In treatment with the H.V.R., it is possible greatly to
relieve an ulcerated condition of the stomach by normaliz-
ing on .the rate for hydrochloric acid. We have also
discovered marked value in a combination rate sending
the energy of the nerves into the energy of the blood, and
at the same time directing both into the pylorus. If the
condition is in the duodenum the same treatment is
followed, substituting the rate of the duodenum for that
of the pylorus.
We might add here that it is necessary for individuals
to eat the right food and let nature take out the vibrations
the body needs. The trouble is we try to supplement
nature .. We have seen the most disastrous results and
impoverished conditions of the body caused by eating
dehydrated foods-thirty pounds condensed into one-half
pound. Nature is left to select from this amount what
she can use to benefit a diseased organ.
Do you believe that if you take thirty pounds of
dehydrated food, concentrate it into one-half pound, and
use ohe-half or one teaspoonful three times a day, putting
it into a sick stomach, that the latter can digest this
amount and send it through the body to come back and
heal the stomach? It does not sound reasonable to us.
Yet that is what is supposed tp happen. A sick stomach
cannot possibly take care of concentrated food.
The true cause of discord is not always from the body,
but often from the mental side. This does not mean that
we cannot accomplish by working on our bodies. One
can eat something today with no bad results, yet to-
morrow if he eats the same thing he might not be able to
take care of it. It simply turns the whole chemistry of
G
98 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
the body around. Our bodies are the outpicturing of our
thoughts and feelings. If we are upset mentally the entire
body is upset.
All the things we put into that body are merely
different degrees of vibration. We now have the atomic
rate for each known element and eight unknown elements
of the body. When used in treatment, these help to
normalize diseased conditions.
There is always a time in our valuation of life when
we think we can bring the body up to a point where we
no longer need the vibrations of earth, but as long as we
live here we must conform to earth's laws. We do not
believe that we can feed a human being food from the
ether, because we are so made that we need a certain
amount of bulk, and gas forms if that bulk is not kept in
the body to the degree nature requires. In other words,
the proper number of electrons must be kept available in
the system to replenish all atoms as the old ones are
removed. A well-balanced individual is a healthy one.
If a patient who has indigestion and who lives under
high pressure in one of our great cities is sent to the
mountains for a fortnight, he will generally eat anything
and everything, and not have one moment's bad effect
from it. Allbecause he breathes in plenty of oxygen, his
mind is free from worry, and there is no noise. He is
living close to the earth and he responds immediately.
We are all existing under constant pressure. For
instance, the vibrations of jazz music are always in the
air, beating continually on our subtle bodies. Of this we
are not generally aware. Sometimes we may feel these
vibrations, but we do not know where they come from.
They are in the ether all around us-definite, real, just as
real as the air we take in. It is only rarely that you can
tune your wireless into a station which is broadcasting
really harmonious music.
We have found that certain types of nervous headache
are greatly relieved by treatment on the rate for hydro-
chloric acid sent through the pylorus and duodenum.
Others are benefitted by sending the energy of the blood
stream through the meningeal tissues. (Incidentally,
while the H.V.R. Treatment is not destructive, it is un-
wise to send blood to any channel that is not great enough
Endocrinology 99
to take care of it.) Still others are relieved by treating
with the rate for the posterior lobe of the pituitary into
the sigmoid and rectum.
Mastoiditis may be treated successfully by sending the
rate for pus into the mastoid sinus. This has reduced the
pain and fever overnight in many instances, and has
caused drainage through the middle ear to the outside.
In one case a deafness was brought about for almost a
month through this treatment, after which the trouble
cleared up, leaving no bad results.
Many cases of haemorrhage have been controlled and
usually checked by normalizing the parathyroid glands.
It will stop nose-bleed almost instantly. In haemorrhage
of cancer, treating the parathyroids will help to control
it, but will not check it so quickly.
Normalizing the parathyroids also assists in conditions
of asthma. In attacks of cardiac asthma, balancing the
body energy by treating the blood stream through the
meninges and ileum has proved an effectual means of
relief.
When there is no local disease in any ·Onegland, the
entire glandular system can be raised in function re-
markably by treatment with the H.V.R. through the
lymph stream. Thus the question arises whether the
lymph stream is the means by which the ductless glands
distribute their hormones throughout the system.
A combined rate of the posterior lobe of the pituitary
and the internal function of the ovaries has been known
to bring about complete cessation of pain caused by
cystic tumour in the ovar£es, and to do away with the
insomnia often accompanying this condition.
Combined treatment of the posterior lobe of the
pituitary and various prolapsed areas of the colon has
shown marked results in cases of constipation.
In obesity, normalization of a hypothyroid gland has
produced almost phenomenal effects.
It may be interesting to note that in diagnosing for
colour, a certain shade of red gives a cancer reaction.
Blue will dissipate this. Jazz music also results in a
cancer 1.:,3.dion, while musical numbers such as Carrie
Jacobs Bond's Perfect·Day dissipate it.
G2
IOO Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
TREATMENT NOTES
The parathyroids are closely related to the pancreas.
They assist in bone and tooth formation; in coagulation
of blood; in regulation of heart rhythm; and have
partial control over allergic conditions. They also build
fat, control toxins, and take care of the calcium in the
body. Treat the parathyroids for distribution of minerals
in the body, and for deposited calcium in the bones.
When pains radiate f'YfJmthe stomach up through the
breast, look for pancreas trouble.
The thyroid increases oxidation, and burns up fat and
waste.
The anterior pituitary controls sex and the long
bones. The posterior pituitary increases pituitrin.
Normalizing on the rate for the posterior pituitary helps
any area which lacks tone. A low pituitary function will
often cause epilepsy.
The suprarenal glands furnish calcium for the para-
thyroids to regulate.
The right kidney eliminates; the left assimilates.
When a patient has flatulence at any time other than
when eating, check the kidneys. For high blood pressure,
send the rate for the blood through the kidneys.
For pounding in the head from high blood pressure,
use the rate for the posterior pituitary through the
thymus.
When blood pressure is low, check for embolism.
When the liver is low in function, the urea in the
urine will be low. When bile registers in the urine,
check the liver.
Bacteria in the urine is an indication of inner
nervousness. High indican in a urinalysis means an
imbalanced heart.
Treat the internal gonads for sinus trouble.
In older people, treat the prostate or the uterus when
there is deafness.
Bad tonsils generally come from the stomach or small
intestines.
For asthma, treat with the rate for inflammation of
the aorta.
Endocrinology IOI
Coronary trouble means heart trouble of long stand-
ing.
The arteries and veins change place in the heart.
For hiccoughs, treat for impingement in the epiglottis.
For arthritis, use the rate for auto-intoxication; em-
ploy this rate also for a " heavy " feeling.
In treating for dilation use the rate for the posterior
pituitary through the affected areas, instead of the
regular dilation rate.
When there is pain above the diaphragm, check the
mediastinum for abscess or ulcer.
Do not treat parasites with the H.V.R. It tends to
increase them. ·
For obscure disease, treat for prolapsis and dilation
in the organs and glands which are low in function.
In diagnosing, look for anemia when the erythrocytes
are high. When the polynuclears are high, look for
abscess, also appendicitis. When the eosinophils are
high, look for parasites.
Three-tenths blood sugar is normal for the H.V.R.
Instrument.
The lymphatics always flow one way-from the out-
side to the centre.
An impinged eleventh cranial affects the thyroid. An
impinged eighth cranial may indicate prostate or uterine
trouble. An impinged third cranial nerve affects the
eyes. When the first and second dorsal are impinged,
check the heart.
I02
CHAPTER IV
PROCEDURE IN RUNNING A BLOOD COUNT,
MAKING A URINALYSIS, CHECKING TEMPERA-
TURE, BLOOD PRESSURE, IMPINGED NERVES
AND DIET
Running a Differential Blood Count
With the H.V.R. Instrument, a blood count is taken
by means of computation of figures, in lilce manner to
the count made by use of the microscope. ·The chart in
the Atlas is employed to indicate the number of blood
cells registered, instead of counting the blood cells in
the square, which is the method followed in laboratories.
To make a blood count with the H.V.R. Iristrument,
40-9 is kept on the first two dials. On the third dial,
I is added for haemoglobin. All other dials shoula be
at o. Registration is found on the ninth dial, beginning
always at IO.
If reaction comes in at 4, the reading will be 104.0;
if at I, it will be IOI.O.
In taking the erythrocyte count for the male, 40-9-2-
2-9 should be set on the dials; for the female, 40-9-2-2-6.
All other dials must be at o. Registration is on the ninth
dial.
If reaction is found at 5, the chart will read
5,000,000, which is normal for the male. (Refer to
page sixty-nine of the Atlas.) If reaction is found at 4,
which is normal for the female, the reading will be
4,500,000 on the chart; if at 3, the count will be
3,900,000.
The color index is obtained by multiplying the
number of erythrocytes by two, dividing the haemoglobin
by the first two figures of this product, and subtracting
this result from 100.
For normoblasts, the rate is 40-9-ro-7; for micro-
blasts, 40-9-10-9; for macroblasts, 40-9-10-6. All
other dials should be at o, and registration is found on
the ninth dial.
For polynuclear count, 30-2-7 is placed on the first
Procedure 103
three dials, all others being at o. Registration is found
on the ninth dial, beginning always at ro.
If reaction comes in at 7, which is normal, 70 per
cent. would be written on the chart, and beside it, 5250,
the number of cells in 70 per cent. (These figures
appear in the Atlas, beginning on page sixty-eight.)
If reaction comes in at IO on the ninth dial, turn that
dial to o and start on the eighth dial, working down. If
reaction comes in at 3, as in some cases of abscess, the
reading would 3 points, and at the right of that figure,
22,500, the number of cells in the 3 points.
In lymphocyte count, if registration is found to be
5/IO, the figures will be as indicated in chart which
follows (given on page sixty-nine of the Atlas).
The reminder of the blood count is taken in the same
way, using the ninth dial for registration. A completed
count should read, according to figures found:
ABNORMAL CouNT. NoRMA-L COUNT.
Polynuclear 2 points 15,000 70% 5,250
Lymphocytes 36% 2,700 28% 2,100
Large Mononuclear 5% 375 3% 225
. Eosinophils 7% 525 4% 300
Myelocytes 6% 450 0 0
Mast Cells 2% 150 0 0
l!J,200 7,875
With the above abnormal count, there would be a
temperature and acute infection.
Making a Urinalysis
Since a very good idea of the kidney condition is
obtained after making a complete '' blue print '' of the
body, it is suggested that the urinalysis be held as the
last test in the diagnosis, and that it be checked with
wisdom and understanding of the case, as the H.V.R.,
unlike the laboratory, tests the urine in the body of the
patient. This gives a closer check-up of the condition.
Incidentally, the amount of specific gravity, crystals,
etc., may be different by the time the urine has passed
from the body. This depends on how many solids are
Drown H.V.R. and Radio-Viswn
retained, and the amount of water the patient has taken
previous to micturition.
In making a urinalysis, the urine rate, 60-9, is always
kep,t on the first two dials. For the specific gravity,
8-7-r-o are placed on the third, fourth, fifth and sixth
dials respectively. The seventh, eighth and ninth dials
are turned to ro.
The ninth dial should be moved down until a re-
action is registered. If it should come in at 4 on the
ninth dial, the reading would be r.024 (the seventh and
eighth dials counting as ro each).
If specific gravity is normal, no reaction will be found
on the ninth dial. Begin .on the eighth dial, which is
at IO, and work down. If specific gravity is normal, the
reaction will come in at 7, giving a count of I .017. If
it is below normal, continue with the eighth dial, work-
ing towards o. If the reaction carries in at 4, the count
will be r.014.
In making the urea count, use its rate of vibration,
69-5-6-7, placing all other dials at o, with the exception
of the eighth. If the reaction comes in from I to 3, urea
is normal, giving I, 2 or 3 per cent. If it does not
register on the eighth dial, place this dial at o, and begin
with IO on the ninth dial. If a registration comes in at
6, the area: count will be low-6/IO of I per cent.
In checking for acidity, use 69-3-5-3, with all other
dials at o, and begin on the ninth dial at IO. If the
reaction comes in at 6, the reading will be 60 per cent.,
which is too high. If it comes in at 2, it will be between
20 and 30 per cent. If it does not register at all on the
ninth dial, change the rate from 69-3-5-3 to 69-3-5-6 (the
alkaline rate), with all other dials at o, and start checking
on the ninth dial. If the reaction comes in a 3, the
reading will be 30 per cent. alkalinity.
In the remainder of the· urinalysis, all registration is
found on the ninth dial.
Checking Temperature
To determine the temperature, 40 is placed on the
first dial, 5 on the second, o on the third, fourth, fifth
and sixth dials; IO on the seventh, with the eighth and
ninth on o. If the reaction should come in on ro (which
Procedure 105
would be mo), determine the rest of the count on the
eighth and ninth dials-for example, if 3 came in on the
eighth dial, and 2 on the ninth, the reading would be
103.2. If 9 registered on the seventh dial, 8 on the
eighth, and 6 on the ninth, the reading would be 98.6.
To Normalize Temperature
Normalizing the blood count on the H.V.R. Instru-
ment will normalize the temperature and keep it under
control. For instance, if the polynuclears register 2
points (as per chart on page 103), set the dials at 30-2-7-
0-0-0-0-2-o. Keep passing the finger, covered with
rubber finger stall, over the detector until all reaction
disappears. Then set the eighth ~ial at I, and follow
the same procedure until that reaction also disappears.
Next set the eighth dial at o and the ninth dial at 9
(rn on the ninth dial arid I, or I point, on the eighth dial,
are 1.hesame). Passing the finger over the detector, keep
the reaction going until it disappears, and work down
to 7, or 70 per cent., which is normal.
Then take the lymphocyte registration. If this is 5
on the ninth dial, work down to 3, which is normal, by
passing the finger over the detector until reaction
disappears.
When all counts have been made normal (large
mononuclears and eosinophils down to 4, and mylocytes
and mast cells at o), again take 1.hetemperature. It will
be found practically normal.
Do this as often as necessary to keep the temperature
under control. In this way it is easy to deal with acute
infections, such as attacks of appendicitis, by giving
nature a chance to work under less handicap. Too high
temperature causes the cessation oi the magnetic in-
fluence in the atom, which is essential to health.
Taking Blood Pressure
With the H.V.R., the blood pressure is obtained by
computing the rates. Results check quite accurately
with findings made by means of other routine methods.
Place the rate for the systolic, 40-9-0-I-4-2, on the
first six dials. Begin with the seventh dial at I and
eighth dial at IO, and the ninth dial at o. If a-reaction
I06 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
comes in at this point, the count will be 200. On the
ninth dial determine the remaining units. If reaction is
found at 6 on the ninth dial (with the seventh dial at r
and eighth dial at IO) the systolic. count will be 206. If
it should come in at 4 on the eighth dial and 8 on the
ninth dial, the systolic would read 148.
To determine the diastolic pressure, place the diastolic
rate, 40-9-0-1-4-9 on the first six dials. Start measuring
on the seventh dial. If on this dial the registration is 8,
and on the eighth dial it is 5, the diastolic count will be
85. Subtracting the diastolic from systolic gives the
pulse pressure, the normal being between 43 and 65.
The ninth dial is not used in diastolic reading.
Finding Impingement of Nerves
In taking the registration for impingement of nerves
(impingement as used in this work means any kind of
pressure), if the operator finds no reaction, it signifies
that the nerve is free. \Vhere there is a reaction, it
indicates that the nerve is impinged.
The impingement rate, 90-6-3, is placed on the first
three dials, followed by the nerve rate-for example,
2-2-0-8 for cranial. As there are twelve crnnial nerves,
the registration would be found on the eighth and, ninth
dials, i.e., 90-6-3-2-2-0-8-r-2.
Begin at 3 on the ninth dial, thus coming into the
twelfth nerve, then turn to I on the ninth dial for the
nth cranial; next to o, which leaves the registration on
the eighth dial of r point, or ro on ninth dial. The
eighth dial is then put on o. Starting at IO on the ninth
dial, work down to I, or the first cranial nerve.
The rate for the cervicals is 4-4. Since there are
eight of these, begin looking for registration on the ninth
dial, setting this dial at ro and working down. The rate
would read 90-6-3-4-4-0~0-o-8.
As there are twelve dorsals, and 2 is the rate for
dorsal, the complete rate would read 90-6-3-2-0-0-0-1-2.
Registration is found as explained for the cranial nerves.
In locating impingement of the lumbar, sacral and
coccygeal nerves, 2-r is added to the impingement rate.
the complete rate being 90-6-3-2-1-0-0-1-o. (Since the
Procedure 107
spinal cord ends approximately at the second lumbar,
both the sacral and coccygeal nerves come under the
lumbar vibration rate. Thus the first coccygeal is the
eleventh lumbar.)
Begin at 2 on the eighth dial and work down to zero:
1 on the ninth dial and
1 ,, eighth dial is the 1st coccygeal or 11th lumbar.
10 ,, ninth dial ,, 5th sacral or 10th lumbar.
9 4th ,, 9th ,,
8 ,, 3rd ,, 8th ,,
7 ,, 2nd ,, 7th
6 ,, 1st ,, 6th ,,
5 ,, ,, 5th lumbar.
4 ,, ,, 4th ,,
3 ,, 3rd
2 ,, 2nd
1 ,, ,, 1st
"
Checking the Diet
We consider diet as a crutch, and seldom use special
diets except in cases of diabetes, ulcer of the stomach
and of the intestinal tract, pernicious anemia, etc. In
our work we build the organs and glands back to normal,
thus eliminating the necessity for dieting.
When in special cases it is advisable to check for
certain foods, we first put on the H.V.R. the rate of
vibration for food, which is 20-r, then add the rate of
the meat, vegetable, fruit, etc., desired. For example,
if we were checking for cheese, the rate would be 20-r-
9-9-3.
When there is no reaction, the particular food being
checked agrees with the patient. When there is a
reaction, that food disagrees with the patient.
It is essential to the endocrine glands and their
normal function to use only such dehydrated foods as
will not cause an imbalance in those glands. Unless the
doctor has an instruction such as the H.V.R., with which
to check the function of the glands and their reaction to
foods and remedies, he cannot know their effect upon
the body. But with such an instrument, this should be
easily and scientifically accomplished, making it purely
individual to each patient.
I08
CHAPTER V
CHECKING THE " BLUE PRINT " WITH ORGAN
AND GLAND SUBSTANCES
We find that by the use of homeopathic organ and
gland substances in diagnosis with the H.V.R. it is
possible not only to employ it as a check on the diagnosis
itself, but to ascertain which of thirty organs and glands
in the body (including the appendix) is the underlying
cause of disease in a patient.
It has been discovered that the substance of that
particular gland or organ which lies at the seat of the
trouble, used in connection with diagnosis on the instru-
ment, will normalize the entire body condition. Thus
the doctor is led directly to the physical cause of the
ailment.
Through the process of elimination, he determines
with the H.V.R. how many of the gland and organ
substances dissipate the disease reaction. Using that
group, he turns the dials to the organs and glands low in
function, with the last dial at high normal; he then
checks to see which gland or organ substances of the
ones selected brings both glands and organs up to
normal. This vibration, plus the patient's vibration, will
be found to normalize the body, and at the same time be
the gland or organ substance that dissipates the disease.
By watching the process of elimination carefully, it is
possible to determine the order in which the glands or
organs were originally affected. If the liver and kidney
were the last two in the group during the process of
elimination, and the kidney was found to be the cause of
the trouble (since it brought the body to normal, as well
as dissipated the disease), then the kidney was the first to
be affected, the liver next.
In diagnosing a cancer case, which we consider most
difficult, we always first determine how many gland and
organ substances will dissipate the disease. We then go
Checking the " Blue Print " I09
through the process of elimination just described, to dis-
cover which gland or organ was originally affected. Thus
we have a true picture of the cause of the trouble.
Following are symptoms found to accompany the
hypo or hyperfunction of various glands and organs:
Kidney: Often there will be an apparently lazy, mental
" lack of energy " feeling; a highly nervous condition;
the patient will have little or no appetite; low function
of stomach and duodenum will be found; also a hyper-
thyroid condition, low function of gonads, suprarenals
and brain, and sometimes of the lungs. If the kidney
is actually at the basis of the entire body dysfunction,
the kidney gland substance, used in conjunction with
the H.V.R. in diagnosis, will normalize the function of
all glands and organs, and dissipate the disease reaction
found in the patient.
Pancreas: In one case of insanity, an extremely low
function of the pancreas was discovered; the face was
broken out with acne; sex organs did not function;
patient was unable to speak, and showed definite mental
shock. The pancreas gland substance vibration
normalized the entire body condition.
Thymus : This gland, which is not supposed to function
after puberty, actually has a function of from r / IO to
4/ IO in the adult, according to the measurement of the
H.V.R. Instrument. It has been found that the thymus
is rarely, if ever, normal in a case of sarcoma. How-
ever, the thymus alone does not control the entire
condition when sarcoma is present, excepting to help
lessen the amount in the lymph and soft tissue adjacent
to the tumour. Tumour of a sarcoma nature on the
outside of the body is very seldom local, but often
extends, unsuspected, to deep tissues.
Pit~itary: In cases of external suppuration, this gland
is usually low in function, and its normalization does not
mean an immediate healing of the affected parts. How-
ever, its continued treatment is essential for complete
healing in cases of this nature. (We find the addition of
bio-chemic tissue salts assists all treatment when the
IIO Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
patient's own energy is used as the therapy, as is the
case with the H.V.R.)
In lymphosarcoma, diagnosis invariably shows a
deficiency in the function of the pituitary body, usually
both lobes.
Spleen: In conditions of the spleen, a great mental
strain, such as comes from worry or grief, is usually
present back and beyond the disease itself, except in
cases of trauma. The kidneys are generally affected
also, particularly in patients who have had this mental
strain.
...
.,. ...
~
*
The above are merely methods of procedure for
checking causes. Information concerning the glands and
their function is given in Chapter III.
III
CHAPTER VI
RADIO-VISION AND ITS THEORY
In the Drown Method we attempt to improve the tie
between the material and the so-called unseen Energy
which animates all life. It has been difficult for the
average physician to recognize this vital Life Force
which flows through everything in the Universe, giving
to it its own rate of vibration. If that rate of vibration
changes, the substance, hitherto regarded as a certain
type element, ceases to be that type and becomes some-
thing else without ceasing to be a substance.
When it is considered that the brain holds in the
thalamus a fluid which some authorities have stated gives
a balance to the head, it will be realized that this fluid
not only is used in the same way as the drop of fluid in
the carpenter's level, but also is definitely a liquid light,
a condensation of the higher animating Life Force or
unseen Light that causes everyone to live and move and
have his being in activity-or shall we call it God in
action?
We have found by experiment with the receiving set
radio that not only is this fluid that which we call blood
plasma, but it also flows over the nervous system. The
nucleus of the cranial nerves, shown by one of our radio-
vision pictures to be in the form of the Lotus Leaf,
located in the cortex of the brain, draws its sustenance
from this pond of liquid light. Ancient writers have
stated, '' In the thalamus and pineal gland all things
are comprehended.''
'rhe fluid is taken up by the first three cranial nerves.
The next six are under the control of the first three, but
the tenth cranial nerve comes out from the brain behind
the ears. In early writings it is spoken of as the "beard
of the face." It supplies the face, mouth and throat,
and even goes down into the chest. It also sends out
" myriad times myriad " of branches to " the authors
of ~ef," or, in other words, the sweat glands of the
II2 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
body, as well as putting forth " lamenting branches,"
which we call sympathetic branches.
These references apparently prove that in ancient
days it was known that the twelve cranial nerves supply
some kind of branch, either the motor, sympathetic or
sensory, to every part of the body; when we study the
heart, we realize that each cranial nerve has given forth
a branch to the Bundle of His, which according to these
same ancient writers is the Seat of Life, and is the size
of a man's thumb.
The animating Light or Life Force comes through the
pineal gland and anchors in this Bundle of His in the
heart. It continues to supply the heart even though the
latter may physically be disconnected from the body,
since through experimentation it has been proved that
when a live heart taken from the body is placed in
normal salt solution at a normal temperature, it will beat
indefinitely.
It has been difficult for authorities to understand why
this takes place, but it will readily be seen that the so-
called invisible Light is the activating means.
The photographs made with the Drown Radio-Vision
Instrument, which prove this theory, are obtained by
touching either the patient or the blood with a wire.
This acts as an aerial, and carries the patient's energy
into the instrument through the rate of vibration of the
part desired, and its outline is placed upon the film in a
natural, normal scanning process.
Some have felt this to be uncanny. If the sight of
bacteria under the lens of a high-powered microscope is
not uncanny (because one does not see the sanie thing
with the naked eye), neither is the sight of the various
parts of the body taken in life by the use of the animating
Light or Life Force. Both are true, scientific actions of
the One Energy, resisted and used in different ways to
obtain different results. The first is so common it has
become a normal activity; the second is uncommon,
therefore not yet accepted as usual.
The large fish in the bottom of the ocean are so
accustomed to heavy pressure that if they are brought to
the surface quickly they explode; at the depth in which
Radio-Vision II3
they live they are unable to see the small fish floating
past their eyes. While we as human beings think we
live in dry air, we too must have a definite amount of
moisture.
In the early stages of development man passed
through the stage of the fish, and came only gradually
into a higher rate of vibration of fluid, his present atmos-
phere. That is why we must have a certain amount of
water in order to breathe and live. We are still fish in
our own particular rate of vibration. As we get into
higher rates of vibration we need less water. Water is
the condensation of our Life Force. It is important that
its channel be kept open, as we take in energy from the
ethers through every part of our body, just as a fish
living in water absorbs and throws it off.
Since human bodies have passed up through each
stage from the fisl:,.,there is every reason to believe that
much activity which we are unable to see exists in life
around us. Therefore when, through means of various
instruments, it is possible to tune in to some of this in-
visible Energy, we should recognize it as a scientific
truth, not cast it aside because it has not been known
before.
The fact that some of our radio-vision pictures are
taken by using the blood as a '' radio beam '' is
explained in this manner: when placed on a blotter, the
blood is crystallized, even as ice is crystallized steam,
and each small atom is the precipitated crystallized end
of an invisible line which reaches into the ethers. This
invisible line passes through the body over the nerves
and through the blood vessels, and the tlectrons from air,
water and earth supply the body structure, attaching
themselves to that line, which holds the pattern of the
body.
The invisible line is therefore the Life Force of the
body. It also takes the form of liquid and gases when
the electronic flow is speeded up fast enough to produce
heat. When the body ceases to be animated by this Life
Force-in other words, when death comes-we cannot
tune into it with our -instruments. The Life Force, or
'' radio beam,'' has been withdrawn.
Since this blood is crystallized light, it acts as light
H
II4 Drown H.V.R. and Radio-Vision
ag_dhas the speed of light. Therefore its energy passes
around the world seven and three-quarter times per
second, possibly more. This does away with the idea
of distance, and shows that the vibration of everything
in the world is where we are; we need only take this
vibration out of the ethers and pass it through our
instrument in order either to treat a patient at a distance
or make a picture of any portion of his body.
We have the rates of vibration of every part of the
body, taken from the histological cellular structure-or
shall we call it the molecular arrangement of the different
organs? These would be the same in an animal as in a
human.
In our work we are unable to take a picture of anyone
under an anaesthetic. The reason for this is that when
a patient is under an anaesthetic, the mental body is
forced out of the physical (that is why there is no feeling
in the physical at such times), and the former stands to
one side. In order to bring that mental body back
enough so that it can outline the picture, we must use a
certain kind of homoeopathic remedy with the patient's
vibration.
The emulsion we use in taking our pictures is colour-
sensitive. When we employ colour, we are dealing with
vibration. Out of that vibration comes sound.
Why then can we not take pictures of sound, if sound
creates form? We should then be able to have the form
held in a film and place it in some kind of apparatus, say,
a gramophone. This has been done in England. Such
a picture can be reproduced at any time.
If we are capabie. of thinking something, or doing
something, that thing is capable of being born. For
instance, we fully believe that eventually we shall be able
to take a picture by putting an aerial in the air, catching
the results on a gramophone apparatus, and hearing the
sound that is in the air. If film takes form it will, or
should, take sound also. Every form that is created has
its own sound.
The statement has been made that in our photographs
cellular structure is unlike any shown in the histological
slides under the microscope. These pictures are obtained
Radio-Vision II5
from the actual living tissues in the body, which are
different from those that have been removed from the
body, as seen under the microscope. The cells in the
live body have a tone and life activity that does not exist
in the same structure, once it has been removed from
the body.
It is true that our approach to this subject differs
from the methods heretofore used; nevertheless, the time
has come when the doctor must learn more about the
animating Life Force of the patient and its many
variables than about the mere functions of the body.
n6
CHAPTER VII
CASE HISTORIES
(Drown Laboratories)
Miss W. Case of a young woman 28 years old who
was suffering from fatigue, nervousness, constipation
and dizziness. Diagnosis showed contraction of kidney
and spleen,! cystic fluid in the left ovary and pin worms
in the intestines and colon. Her temperature was below
normal. After ten months' treatment the pin worms
disappeared entirely, the kidneys functioned normally
and the cystic fluid condition cleared up. This patient
had had a hysterectomy, which hampered treatment,
especially of the glands.
For the duration of treatment the glands were
normalized twenty minutes each day with rates for the
above-mentioned conditions. (See Atlas for rates.)
(Drown Laboratories)
Mrs. L. A woman 44 years old who had suffered.from
fatigue and nerve panic of the eyelid for sixteen years.
Diagnosis showed most of the glands to be very low in
function; adhesions affecting the tenth cranial, the sym-
pathetic nervous system and ileum; amoeba in the in-
testines and colon; uric acid and cystic fluid in the
pancreas; uric acid in the right kidney, left eye, and
lacrimal duct: After six months' treatment, almost all
of which was broadcast, most ·of these conditions were
eliminated and the patient felt well.
This case was handled by remote control-treating
the glands and. using rates for the above-mentioned con-
ditions. (See Atlas for rates.)
(Drown Laboratories)
Mrs. T. A very deaf woman, 52 years old, who com-
plained of headache in the top of head; pain in appendix;
pain in stomach and back. Diagnosis showed polypoids
and abscess in left eustachian tube and tympanic mem-
brane; cystic fluid in brain; inflamed appendix;
Case Histories II7
streptococcus and staphylococcus in gall bladder; and
streptococcus throughout intestinal tract and colon.
Treatment greatly improved both the general health and
the hearing, until the patient could detect the ticking of
a clock, which had not been possible for years. All pain
in the lower right side and in stomach disappeared.
Patient was not dismissed from treatments. Her
hearing was still poor, but so improved that the results
were phenomenal. ·
The glands were treated twenty minutes each day,
and other rates were used for the above-mentioned con-
ditions. (See Atlas for rates.)
(Drown Laboratories)
Mr. T. Case of a man 54 years old, suffering with
heart trouble of years' standing. Head pains and noises;
'' explosions '' in right ear when falling asleep; consti-
pation and pains in the lower back. Diagnosis showed
enlargement and trauma of left ventricle of the heart;
calcium deposit in the right kidney, and cystic fluid in
the right kidney and ureter. After treatment the patient
felt greatly improved; the backache disappeared, and the
heart condition and head noises were so relieved that
he suffered very little and was able to sleep well.
For twelve months the glands were treated twenty
minutes three times a week, and treatment rates for cQn-
ditions mentioned abov~ were used in addition. (See
Atlas for rates.)
(Drown Laboratories)
Mrs. M. T. A woman 42 years old, giving a history
of kidney and bladder complications, adhesions, tipped
uterus, extra kidney and painful urination. Bladder
operations had afforded her no relief. Diagnosis showed
calcium deposit in the ureter and urethra; inflammation
and streptococcus in urethra; inflammation and strepto-
coccus in the pyloric end of the stomach and bladder;
and cirrhosis and carcinoma of right kidney and inter-
stitial tissue.
After ten months' treatment she reported that for
the first time in years she was able to urinate without
pain, and was feeling normal in every way.
This woman was treated on the gland rates for twenty
rr8 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
minutes daily, also for the :tbove-meptioned conditions.
(See Atlas for rates.)
(Drown Laboratories)
Miss T. A young woman of 20, who suffered extreme
pain and menstrual colic for ten years during periods,
with frequent fainting spells. She also was troubled
with constipation and headaches. Many kinds of treat-
ment had failed to relieve the condition. Diagnosis
showed low function of the pituitary gland, ovaries and
uterus, hyperfunction of the left thyroid, and various
abnormal conditions in the colon; also cystic fluid in the
ovaries and tubes. After several months' treatment the
pains disappeared and normal conditions were restored.
The patient stated she felt completely well and normal
for the first time in her life. She was able to drive her
own car, and finally married.
For twelve months the glands and all the above-
mentioned conditions were treated daily. (See Atlas for
rates.)
(Drown Laboratories)
F. I. Case of a boy 6 years old who was unable to
walk, or to talk much. If he tried to walk, his legs
dragged and he shoved himself along the floor. When
his parents brought him to us they carried him into the
office. Diagnosis showed low function of the left
suprarenal gland, pancreas, prostate_and testicles. There
were fibrous adhesions in the brain and meningeal tissue,
affecting the eleventh dorsal; also contracted brain sinus,
and cystic fluid in the brain and medulla. After being
treated on the H.V.R. for a year, the boy was walking,
playing; talking and laughing, and mentally was greatly
improved. His mother wanted to send him to school.
In this instance all the glands were treated for twenty
minutes daily; also the cystic fluid condition. Treat-
ment was given almost entirely in the brain areas. (See
Atlas for rates.)
(Drown Laboratories) - ·
Mrs. D. A woman whose neck was so stiff she could
not turn her head. Diagnosis showed parasites in the
lymphatics. A picture made with the Drown Radio-
Case Histories II9
Vision Instrument, taken on the parasite rate, showed
pin worms all through the mastoid sinus. The larvae
had formed in the lymphatics and settled in the mastoid,
stiffening the entire neck.
The glands were treated twenty minutes, and for the
pin worm condition the Drown Short Wave Instrument
was used, employing the mastoid sinus and lymphatic
rates. (See Atlas for rates.)
(Drown Laboratories)
Dr. L. Case of a man who had suffered from pellagra
for eight years. Perspiration was so constant that he was
forced to wipe his face continually and change his day
and night clothes many times. His disposition made him
impossible to live with. His disease had been diagnosed
previously as weeping eczema. We found pellagra
affecting the nerves to the extent that they were as if
made of string with no padding around them. His taste
in food ran to cheese, corn, and various products which
encouraged the fungus. This eight-year-old condition
was cleared up in five months' treatment. Besides the
H.V.R., light and colour were used in treatment. There
was no return of the trouble until months later, when the
patient took all sorts of combinations of liquids into his
stomach and refused to watch his diet. But for this,
there would have been no recurrence.
The patient was treated on the glands twenty minutes
daily, and on rates for the above conditions (especially
nerve coverings) for twelve months. (See Atlas for
rates.)
(Drown Laboratories)
Mrs. F. A woman, aged 60, who was barely able to
hobble into the office. She was stiff and extrem.ely
nervous; suffering from a roaring in the ear, swollen
ankle, drawing of muscles in the left knee as the result of
an accident, glandular disturbance and irritability.
Diagnosis showed thyroid as the cause. A fibroma con-
dition was found in both the right and left thyroid; there
was also sarcoma of the spleen, lymph glands and liver,
and acidity in the left eustachian tube. The fractured
knee-bone· was troublesome, due to lack of proper treat-
ment. This patient came six hours a week for one year,
I20 Drown H. V .R. and· Radio-Vision
during which time acid conditions in various organs were
found, treated and cleared up. By then the woman was
able to walk, the roaring in the ear had stopped, and her
nervousness and irritability had disappeared. A grateful
letter testified to her improvement. She was treated on
the glands for twenty minutes daily, also on rates for the
other conditions, for a period of twelve months. (See
Atlas for rates.)
(Drown Laboratories)
Mrs. N. Case of a woman past 50 years of age. While
she was out of the city, her husband telephoned that a
doctor had pronounced her trouble mastoiditis. Her
blood count was so high that the physician had.advised
an immediate operation. . Her husband waited at the
telephone while we made a count from a blood specimen,
and found that she had 12,800 instead of about 7,500
white cells. The husband was willing to let us handle
the case by remote control. We kept her on the rate for
streptococcus through the mastoid bone all night. By
midnight her ear had filled up and closed until she could
not hear. By morning it had begun to drain, and kept
draining for three weeks. Other cases have been treated
in the same way, with equal success.
(Drown Laboratories)
M. A. W. A girl 12 years of age who had been in the
hospital five months, suffering from the effects of scarlet
fever, septicemia in the left mastoid, headaches,
streptococcus, abscesses, and loss of speech and memory.
She could not digest food, and vomited bile, frequently
passing into a state of coma. H.V.R. treatments enabled
her to leave the hospital, although she was given up by
her physicians. When her parents brought her to our
office she was not able to walk. An abscess was drain-
ing in one arm, in an elbow, and on the back of one
hand. She could not lift her arm. Our Radio-Vision
picture, taken while she was in hospital, confirmed the
H.V.R. diagnosis of abscess in the brain, left medulla
and left ear. Most of the glands were very low in func-
tion. We worked on the case daily for several months,
normalizing the glands and treating the abscessed condi-
tions. At the end of the treatments she had a perfect
Case Histories I2I
body. A tutor was engaged for her, as she had to start
her education from the beginning, having forgotten so
much she had previously learned. Today she stands
at the head of her classes in school. One shoulder still
shows a little stiffness because of the destruction of tissue,
but she has the use of it, even being able to swiin.
This patient was given gland treatment' each day for
twenty minutes, and the abscess was treated until cleared.
The fact that it had cleared was confirmed by Radio-
Vision pictures. (See Atlas for rates.)
(Drown Laboratories)
Miss L. A woman aged 53, who gave a history of
migraine, with gastritis and sick headaches of many
years' standing; constipation; pains in the head and at
the base of the brain; also much hoarseness. A diagnosis
revealed low function in the posterior pituitary, tail of
the pancreas, left internal ovary, left parathyroid and
spleen. The gall bladder did not register at all. The
right kidney was low in function, as were the sympathetic
nerves, and the veins registered 4/ IO instead of 8/IO.
Sarcoma was found in the gall bladder, caudate· lobe of
the liver and the spleen; hypertension in the veins;
cystic fluid in the pharynx and the larynx. After six
months' treatment the headaches lessened. Diagnosis
showed a higher function of the gall bladder. Other
symptoms disappeared, and the patient felt better than
she had for twenty years. Complete changes took place
in the skin. Its coloring, heretofore like brown leather,
became normal.
This patient ·was treated on the glands for twenty
minutes each day, and on the rates for conditions men-
tioned in the above diagnosis. (See Atlas for rates.)
(Drown Laboratories)
Miss G. Case of a woman a~ed 42 who complained of
headaches (frontal); pain around the right eyeball;
cramps in the intestines; pain in the lumbar and sacral
regions, and around the right knee. Her feet burned and
were swollen. Diagnosis showed the pituitary, pancreas,
right ovary, right thyroid and arteries low in function,
with no function of the upper right and lower left para-
thyroid; cystic fluid in the uterus; streptococcus in the
I22 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
sinuses; sarcoma of right thyroid; calcium deposit in the
right kidney and posterior pituitary. After one year of
treatment, this woman's glands were normal and the
diseased conditions were healed. She was treated daily
-twenty minutes for glands, and with rates for the above-
mentioned ~onditions. Duration of treatment was
twelve months. (See Atlas for rates.)
(Drown Laboratories)
Mr. G. A man 41 years old, who suffered from mucous
colitis. When two years of age he had had inflammatory
rheumatism. At ten, he had not walked for a year
because of the condition of the tendons in his legs. He
gasped for breath when talking, had sinus trouble, and
because of the latter, had had his teeth extracted. There
was much pain between the shoulders, low in the back;
cecal hernia was present, and there was considerable
gas in the stomach. The patient had had appendicitis,
haemorrhoids and rectal ulcer, and had been treated by
every known method, with no results. By means of the
H.V.R. Instrument the right suprarenal was found to be
very low m function, also both the anterior and posterior
lobes of the pituitary. The function of both the head of
the pancreas and the islands of Langerhans was low, and
the head was constricted. The prostate and gonads
barely registered function; there was hyperfunction of
the thyroid and hypofunction of the parathyroids.
Cirrhosis of the liver was found. The kidneys were not
normal, but neither were they unusually low.· The right
lung hardly functioned. The stomach also showed very
low function, but hyperchlorhydria registered in the
pyloric end. The veins and arteries were fairly normal;
the motor nerves were within normal; but the sensories
and sympathetics were low. The heart muscle regis-
tered about half its normal function, with aweakened
condition of both ventricles. The spleen was also found
to have about half its normal function, and the lymph
glands were quite low. Ulceration was discovered in
the ileum, and acidity throughout the entire intestinal
tract. The caudate lobe of the liver registered abscess.
(Such cases may be treated directly into the abscessed
area with marked results. See Atlas for rates.)
Case Histories 123
(Drown Laboratories)
Miss Y. Case of a woman who had tumour of the
uterus extending into the greater omentum. After being
treated for twenty hours, the tumour had shrunk to the
size of a small hickory nut, as we were able to palpate it.
There were no haemorrhages, and the patient experienced
no pain from the condition, but she felt extremely toxic,
and noticed a swelling of the left ankle. With the
exception of a small portion of the tumour, all conditions
cleared in a few months. (See Atlas for rates.)
(Drown Laboratories)
A woman who had suffered from haemorrhages of the
uterus for several years before coming to this office for
treatment. Her condition had been diagnosed by other
physicians as carcinoma of the uterus, and our diagnosis
indicated this also. In addition, it showed polypoid
uteri about the size of a small qrange. After several
months' treatment there was no more haemorrhage, and
the polypoid no longer registered nor was palpable.
However, our re-check after this time showed a distinct
cystic tumour of the right ovary extending through the
right fallopian tube and draining through the uterus. As
the latter condition seemed to take care of itself and was
not dangerous, the patient ceased treatments to go to the
mountains and rest. To our knowledge, this was the
only trouble remaining.
We find that the lack of certain mineral salts in the
body prevents resulting cystic conditions from clearing
up. In connection with this, it should be noted that we
treat with the patient's own energy, and if certain cell
salts are lacking, they must be introduced into the body
through food or other methods. (See Atlas for rates:)
(Drown Laboratories)
Mr. N. A man who was apparently suffering from
paralysis agitans. Certain cases in which all indications
seem to point to this disease are sometimes drn~to trauma,
as was true in this instance. The patient was highly
nervous, and unable to control the motions of his arms
and legs, yet while he stooped over heavily and his hands
shook as with palsy, he showed no loss of balance when
124 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
walking. Diagnosis by means of the H.V.R. Instrument
indicated definite concussion of the brain, right side top
of the head and the right side of the cerebellum, with left
lateral scoliosis of the cervicals and lordosis of the dorsal
lumbar region. It also revealed fracture of the periosteum
of the bone in the above spinal areas. Apparently the
patient had been injured when thrown from a horse three
years before. After he regained consciousness he had no
memory of what had taken place, nor did he know where
he was injured.
It was noticeable that his nervousness was greatly
relieved by rubbing his arms and legs. In treating him, it
was found he could be put to sleep immediately by using
the rate for impinged sensory nerves, and directing tp.e
body energy into these nerves. This accomplished
practically the same result as. rubbing the skin, which
was a stimulus to the sensory nerves.
During each treatment, after balancing the endocrine
glands (a part of the usual treatment in all cases), the
patient's body energy was directed from the nervous
system into the blood stream by means of the instrument,
thus .bringing about a balance between the nerve and
blood energy of the body. (It has been found, incident-
ally, that this balancing of the nerves and blood of the
body gives remarkable results in certain types of disease,
notably ulcer.) After a few weeks' treatment based on
this methods, the patient showed marked improvement.
(See Atlas for rates.)
(Weaver)
Mr. B. A man who gave a history of hiccoughs lasting
all night; he asked that treatment be broadcast to him.
We were eager to learn what could be done through the
H.V.R. Instrument, never before having treated with it
for hiccoughs. After trying several rates with no result
we used that for impinged nerves to the epiglottis. This
stopped the hiccoughs in thirty minutes. However, there
was a return of the trouble in the afternoon when the
patient came for his regular two-hour treatment. Again
the hiccoughs were stopped in thirty minutes. Shortly
after he returned home they began again.· Once more
broadcast treatment was resorted to, but this time it was
Case Histories 125
kept up all night. The patient then had no recurrence
of the condition.
(Weaver)
Mr. W. Case of a man who limped as though suffering
from innominate lession. The lesion could not be located.
An attempt to adjust the hip, according to the method
used in cases handled previously, so aggravated the con-
dition that after three weeks the patient could hardly
walk. When he finally consented to try the H.V.R., a
diagnosis with the instrument showed a psoas abscess
affecting the left hip. Three hours' contact H.V.R.
treatment and an all-night broadcast cured the trouble
completely. When another patient came a few months
later with the same condition, this time affecting the right
hip, it responded to the same treatment, being healed in
six hours.
(Chapman)
Mr. C. A man, aged 59, had been semi-conscious for
five days following cerebral apoplexy. A history of
stomach trouble was given which had been more or less
constant for four or five years. The patient frequently
vomited a black liquid and sometimes food, but after
about three weeks of treatment the appetite was much
improved and he ate fairly well for one in bed. A
diagnosis showed carcinoma involving the stomach, right
kidney, cecum, prostate, and tail of the pancreas; also
contracted spleen and left kidney, and abscess of the
caudate lobe of the liver. After daily treatments for a
month the patient was suddenly afflicted with a severe
headache. Within thirty minutes he was unconscious
from another apoplectic attack, and died in about twenty-
four hours. A post-mortem examination showed no
tumour formation in the stomach, but the latter was fully
three times its usual size and contained three pints of
black liquid, which could be seen through the stomach
wall. The stomach was tied off, removed, and an in-
cision made into its wall. This showed it to be composed
only of the serous coat, the muscular and mucous coats
having entirely disappeared. The few remaining blood
vessels were black mutilated streaks in the serous coat.
One could almost conceal the entire stomach within the
Drown H.V.R. and Radio-Vision
palm of the hand as one would a wet silk handkerchief.
The capsule of the spleen was ruptured, and from this
a reddish, jelly-like mass protruded. The spleen was
smaller and much lighter in colour than normal. The
right kidney was congested, enlarged, and abnormally
red. The cecum was affected much like the stomach,
but not to such an extent. The appendix seemed normal.
The prostate was not examined. The tail of the pancreas
was congested and puffy. The caudate lobe of the liver
was contracted, whitish, and contained many cheesy cells
about the size of grains of wheat. There seemed to be
small pus pockets. The stomach condition was very
peculiar, the writer never previously having witnessed
such a case. (See Atlas for rates.)
The following cases discussing parasitosis, epilepsy,
and locating the presence of foreign bodies, are taken
from the H.V.R. Journal of March, 1932:
Parasitosis : In many obscure and obstinate conditions
parasites will be found to be the basis of the trouble.
Marked and lasting results can be obtained in such cases
by the use of the H.V.R. in treatment, but many times
this ailment is uncovered only after every other possi-
bility in diagnosis has been exhausted. In one such
instance a patient had been suffering from lameness, stiff-
ness and soreness, accompanied by an afternoon tempera-
ture, for six or seven years. After much research,
diagnosis finally located trichinae in the liver, gall
bladder, muscles, intestines and lymph stream. With
treatment for this condition, improvement in the patient
was marked.
Obstinate asthmatic and bronchial trouble has also
resulted from the presence of this same parasite. In one
case where trichinae were found in the diaphragm, the
right lung and right pleura, the entire d~fficulty cleared
up after a two-hour treatment on the H.V.R. Instrument.
(Drown Laboratories)
Epilepsy : Case of a man 38 years old who had had
epilepsy since his twentieth year. Diagnosis showed
cystic fluid, traces of carcinoma and its toxins, Neisseria,
and lowered resistance, all registering in the cerebellum.
Case Histories r27
The lowered resistance came through as congenital.
Other minor conditions were found in various parts of the
body. Treatment was started by normalizing all the
glands with the H.V.R. each day for one-half hour.
During the first week this was followed by a half-hour
treatment daily on the rate for Neisseria through the
cerebellum. At the end of that week this condition
ceased to registered on the instrument. The second week,
after normalizing the glands, treatment was given for
half an hour on the rate for congenital lowered resistance
through the cerebellum. This also disappeared at the
end of .the week. During the third week we treated with
the carcinoma rate and with the rate for the cystic con-
dition through the cerebellum. Throughout the entire
three weeks we also worked on the minor conditions
found. At the close of the third week none of -these
troubles registered on the instrument, and even the
epilepsy itself failed to come through. The patient had
no recurrence of attacks and the general health was
immeasurably improved.
(Drown Laboratories)
Locating the Presence of Foreign Bodies : Accurate
location and classification of a foreign body in any part
of the system is very simply accomplished by means of
the H.V.R. Instrument. It has been found of great
assistance particularly in certain instances in which the
X-ray proved of no value.
Case of a woman suffering from coughing and irrita-
tion in breathing, especially in cold weather, and soreness
along the spine on both sides, a condition that had existed
ever since a tonsillectomy and sinus operation six years
before. It was suspected that some minute object or
substance had slipped down her throat during the opera-
tion, although countless X-rays had failed to reveal this.
Using the rate for foreign body on the H.V.R. Instru-
ment, we discovered the presence of some object in the
right upper lung, half-way between the second and third
rib. We placed the rates for various substances in turn
on the instrument and found that the foreign body was of
rubber composition. Apparently a small bit of rubber
used during the operation had slipped down the patient's
128 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
throat and lodged itself in the lung, setting up the sub-
sequent irritation and fits of coughing, even though it had
been walled off by the body process.
(Drown Laboratories)
Case of a patient in whose finger a piece of glass had
lodged. A physician was called upon to remove it, but
a H.V.R. diagnosis was requested to see whether any
glass remained after the operation. Foreign body
registered strongly i;n one area, but the rate for glass
produced no reaction. The foreign substance proved to
be some fine shreds of absorbent cotton.
(Drown Laboratories, 1931)
Diarrhea : A woman, aged 57, had had a severe
diarrhea for three months, with as many as twenty stools
a day. As a result she was so weak that she had to be
brought to the office. She had been treated for intestinal
influenza. The H.V.R. instrument, however, registered
amoebic dysentery in duodenum, cecum, sigmoid,
rectum, bladder and right ovary. The dysentery was
completely stopped by a two-hour treatment on the
instrument, and the other conditions were subsequently
cleared up.
Bronchitis : Case of man convalescing from a bad cold
which had developed into a severe bronchitis. After
coughing very hard all night, he came for treatment,
complaining of a constricted sensation around the lower
ribs. We used the rate for impinged nerve to the
diaphragm, which relieved the constriction in fifteen
minutes. Later we treated him for trichinae in the
diaphragm, right lung and right pleura. In a few hours
this relieved the cough which had persisted for several
weeks.
Ptomaine: Cases of what appeared to be ptomaine.
A few of these patients suffered what seemed to.be ·nausea.
Others had nausea accompanied by cramps, andsomehad
cramps only. Still others had diarrhea, and some were
completely prostrated. Each case, diagnosed by means
of the H.V.R. Instrument, registered poison chemicals
in the stomach, small intestines or colon, and sometimes
in all these areas. An hour's treatment invariably
The Drown Radio Vision Instrument.
Case Histories 129
cleared the condition. We had seven such cases in one
week, and believe the trouble· was caused either by
chemical fertilizer or sprays used on vegetables.
(Drown Laboratories) Weaver.
Tumour and High Blood Pressure : There are some
cases which are so complicated and difficult to bring
under control that they challenge one to use everything
at hand to cope with the conditions. The following
instance well illustrates the point:
A woman, aged 73, had come to us with a history of
high blood pressure over a number of years. Two years
before she had had a tumour removed from the left breast.
This had started to recur about six months before she
came under our care. It grew rapidly and caused much
discomfort from pain and throbbing. Shortly after she
had started treatment with us she had a slight stroke,
losing the use of the left side and the left arm and leg.
We diagnosed the difficulty, by means l"lfthe H.V.R.
Instrument, as haemorrhage in the right parietal and
medulla. This condition we treated on the instrument.
Feeling, however, that we must bring every possible aid
to bear on the situation, we determined the polarity of
the patient by means of the instrument, and with this as
a basis selected (also by means of the H. V.R.) a homoeo-
pathic remedy which best dissipated the diseased con-
dition. We found the patient to be of bi-polar polarity,
and after testing the various bi-polar homoeopathic
remedies, discovered that arnica, in the I M potency,
completely dissipated the reaction on the instrument for
haemorrhage, blood clot and paralysis. Three powders
of this remedy were administered, two hours apart.
Since morphine had been prescribed by the physician
who had removed the breast tumour, the family de-
manded that this drug be given. But we refused to allow
it, feeling that treatment with the instrument would take
care of the pain and leave no ill effects such as would
follow from morphine. We treated her on the rate for
cancer toxins, with the result that the pain quickly left
and has not returned. She was treated with the instru-
ment twice a week at her home, and had no medicine
other than the arnica (although we followed through with
Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
cadminium sulphate in the 30th potency). In less than
a month's time she regained normal control of the affected
parts, ate and slept well, had two bowel movements a
day without the use of laxatives, and walked unassisted
and without a cane, although she was still a trifle weak.
(Drown Laboratories)
Cancer of the Mesentery : Case of a woman who
had been suffering continuously; physicians had not been
able to help her. With the Radio-Vision Instrument we
took a picture showing just the blood vessels through the
mesentery. One area showed quite alump. We treated
this patient for one year, twice a week. Her pain did
not leave her until the last week of the year, when all
conditions were eliminated.
(Drown Laboratories)
Strokes : Case of a woman about 74 or 75 years of age.
She had had several strokes, one of which turned her eye
to the left. Another stroke blinded it. Another paralyzed
one arm and side of the body to a degree. Today, this
woman has eyes as straight as they ever were. She had
lost her speech, but that has returned, and she can lift
her arm.
We began to treat perhaps a month or so after the
first stroke. The others were treated almost immediately.
CHAPTER VIII
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q.-Dr. H., Texas. How does the H.V.R. treat the
patient?
A.-The blood and nerves carry electro-magnetic
energy. During treatment on the H.V.R. Instrument,
the foot-plates act as the cathode, and the electrode on
the body acts as the anode. The energy carries the radio-
active rate of vib":rationof the organs, glands and tissues
of the body in a way similar to that in which the electric-
ally equipped radio carries the voice or sound. Thus we
have the direct energy passing through the instrument
and back through the patient, conducting the rate of
vibration as designated by the instrument. All energy
returns to its source.
Q.-Dr. Y., California. What do you think forms a.
tumour in the body?
A.-All these conditions seem to be a matter of con-
jecture and theory. It is our theory that the anabolic
function of the body is the positive energy belonging to
the individual which passes through the brain to the
nucleus of the nerve cells, and thence over the nerves to
the various organs and tissues of the body. The catabolic
energy passes through the nerve as the blood stream.
Any impingement of the catabolic function would inhibit
the natural flow of the blood stream through the nerve
to the tissue supported by this nerve. There would thus
be a lack of balance between the catabolic and anabolic
functions. However, the anabolic function would con-
tinue in a true, steady manner, but the impingement of
the catabolic function would inhibit the carrying away of
old cells. Therefore we would have a new cell built in
on the old cell, producing an abnormal condition or
growth. The particular disease germ living within this
growth would depend upon the rate of vibration of the
tissue at the time the growth took place, for we believe
r32 Drown H.V.R. and Radio-Vision
that disease germs live only in their own rate of vibration.
On the other hand, the lack of growth in the body, where
we find suppuration, is caused by the opposite action or
impingement of the anabolic function of the nerve. Thus
we have no new growth or very little new growth. The
normal tearing down without its balance of building up
produces suppuration. Nature works according to true
laws. (See element explanation, page r29.)
Q.-Dr. S., Oregon. Can a rate be obtained on the
H.V.R. Instrument for the total body energy of a
patient?
A.-Yes, just as a rate can be worked out for
minerals, oils, etc. But in the case of a human being the
rate would not be permanent, since the mind is constantly
undergoing change. Due to the fact that the body is
controlled by the fluid in the nerve centres of the brain,
the body changes with every change of the mind.
Q.-Dr. F., Michigan. Does the thought of the
patient while being diagnosed by means of the H.V.R.
Instrument have any influence on that diagnosis?
A.-To our knowledge, it has no influence. Proof
of this lies in the fact that many patients have had
diagnoses made, fully believing within themselves that
they were afflicted with certain diseases at the time. Since
the diagnosis did not prove this to be true, their fears
were dissipated and confidence in the instrument was
created.
Q.-Dr. H., Minnesota. Does treatment with the
H.V.R. Instrument help deafness?
A.-Unless there is a local diseased condition of the
ear or eustachian tube, treatment into the thyroid gland
will usually relieve deafness during the first week of treat-
ment. This trouble is usually found where there is an
impingement somewhere on the eight_h cranial nerve.
This in tum leads us to investigation of the tissues sup-
plied by this nerve. Often a dysfunction of the sex
glands will be found. (See element notes, page rr6.)
Q.-Dr. M., Massachusetts. In your opinion, do the
nerves of the body have both an anabolic and a catabolic
function?
Questions and Answers 133
A.-It is our belief that each nerve of the body, in its
process of control over the metabolism of the tissue cells,
governs both the growth and the tearing down of those
cells. As we see it, this controlled growth is caused by
the nerve cell working in conjunction with the blood
stream and stimulated by the spinal fluid (which in tum
is stimulated by the vibrations of Universal Energy
passing through the brain). In other words, the nerve
cells control the growth of the body cells, and the blood
stream flowing through the nerve feeds the tissue and
cares for the waste products of these body cells. ·were
the energy of the anabolic function of the nerve cell to be
cut off or eliminated, body changes would be induced by
the blood stream because of its resulting unbalanced
function, and so-called decay would take place. Thus,
when we have suppuration in any part of the body, it
would appear that the nerve cell is impinged, and only
the energy which takes care of the catabolic function is
passing through the cell. Hence an imbalance of tissues,
or suppuration, is brought about. On the other hand,
when we have a tumorous growth, it is easy to reason
that that part of the nerve which controls the anabolic
activity is flowing through.
Q.-Dr. L., Pennsylvania. Is it possible to diagnose
the sex of a child prenatally, by means of the H.V.R.
Instrument?
A.-There are now three baby girls livihg in Los
Angeles .whom we diagnosed by means of the· instrument
at different times-one when the mother was ten days
pregnant, another after pregnancy of a month, and the
third after eight .months' pregnancy. All registered
female child, and in each case our diagnosis was proved.
However, because of so many variables, this is very
difficult to follow through. ·
Q.-What causes sarcoma?
A.-It is our finding that sarcoma comes from a
tubercular basis. Cases treated with X-ray and radium
cannot expect good results. That part with which we
are trying to heal, the nucleus of the cell, is destroyed by
radium and X-ray. We must have the nucleus of the
cell in order to grow another one.
134 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
Q.-How long after a stroke would you be able to
help the condition-for instance, if it happened a year
ago?
A.-The length of time varies with the condition.
We have been of assistance a year after a stroke had
taken place. We can do a great deal with our. short
wave instrument. The extent of the injury to the brain
structure from pressure control~ the results.
Q.-Outside of haemorrhage; is there any condition
in which the use of the instrument should be modified?
A.-Yes-pernicious anemia and haemorrhage of the
liver or spleen, which cause these organs to enlarge. In
most cases there is almost a state of hemophilia, which
would be difficult to control. In hemophilia that some-
thing which produces fibrin to allow the' blood to
coagulate is lacking i{! the body. We cannot treat a
patient with pernicious anemia for as long as two hours.
But by normalizing the blood we can get him out of bed
in half an hour.
ENDOCRINOLOGY REVIEW (WEAVER)
In this review it is our purpose to strike only the
high points, or those which tie in and help with the
successful use of the H.V.R. Instrument.
Pages could be written on the subject of endocrin-
ology. The important thing here, however, is to know
how these glands are to be handled with the H.V.R. in
diagnosing and treating patients. We shall therefore
endeavour to cover each endocrine.
Q.-Why do we consider the endocrines of such im-
portance in the Drown Therapy?
A.-Because they are all important to the well-being
of the body, and it is impossible for the organs and cells
to function normally if any of the glands are imbalanced.
They are the transformers of the Life Force in the body.
The endocrine glands constitute the beginning of the
Drown " blue print."
Q.-How do we treat the endocrine glands with the
H.V.R.?
Questions and Answers 135
A.-Directly, with the patient's own energy, through
the specific V.R. for that individual gland or its separate
portions-as the medulla, cortex, etc.
Q.-What is the first thing to look for in diagnosing
the glands?
A.-Their function.
Q.-How is this determined?
A.--First, consult the Atlas for the normal function
of that individual gland, then measure on the last dial
of the instrument. Determine whether it registers its
standard of function.
Q.-What would be the next step?
A.-Check these glandular findings with the case
history; this will give a good clue as to what to look for
in diseases- for you must have a " blue print."
Q.-What are the various endocrine glands?
A.-The suprarenals, pineal, pituitary, pancreas,
ovaries, testicles, uterus, prostate, thyroid, parathyroids,
thymus, spleen.
Suprarenals
Q.-What is the function of the suprarenals?
A.-The secretion of endocrine substance-cortin
and adrenalin.
Q.-What element do they use?
A.-Calcium, building it into red fibre, nerve and
bone tissue.
Q.-What does this accomplish in the body?
A.-It gives strength and tone to every cell and
organ.
Q.-What conditions would we find if this were
lacking?
A.-Weakness and lack of tone, such as a fast, small,
weak pulse; weak heart muscle; uterine inertia; pro-
lapsed conditions, or ptosis; auto-intoxication from lack
of liver tone; flaccid constipation; diarrhea and any
and every condition showing lack of tone and low blood
pressure.
Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
Q.-What would result from hyperfunction?
A.-Hypertension everywhere; thinness; nervous-
ness; fatigue; exhaustion (their weakness is an ex-
haustion); patient is always tired, even though " keyed
up."
Q.-What other endocrines should we correlate with
the suprarenals?
A.-Thyroid, ovaries, testicles, spleen and pituitary.
Q.-What chemical element must we keep in mind
for the suprarenals.?
A.-Calcium.
Q.-What common disease would be indicated if the
suprarenal cortex were low?
A.-Addison's disease. Imbalance of calcium in the
lymphatics.
Q.-What is one way of treating Addison's disease?
A.-Normalize on the external secretion of the
suprarenals (whichever one is low); then normalize on
the other for good measure.
Q.-Why would this be done?
A.-Because Addison's disease is due to a hypo-
function of the cortex which produces the external
secretion called cortin.
Because of the importance of the medullary, or
internal function, we shall add a word or two concerning
it. (This is the internal secretion.)
Q.-What are some of the physiologic functions of
the medullary portions of the suprarenals?
A.-To secrete adrenalin; increase the heart-beat;
also the blood pressure. They inhibit peristalsis; in-
crease metabolism and kidney function; dilate the pupil;
contract blood vessels and shorten coagulation time;
stimulate smooth muscle.
Pineal
Very little has been written on the subject of the
pineal gland; very little is known, judging from our
modern books. Perhaps very little will be known until
Questions and Answers 137
we are better able to use that knowledge. One thing we
do know, however-light in the form of energy, which
is a real substance, enters our body through the pineal
gland.
Q.-What conditions might we expect interference
with if we found an unbalanced pineal gland?
A.-Those pertaining to bodily nutrition, sexual
disturbances and growth.
Q.-With what ages should we be most careful in
pineal diagnosis?
A.-The growing and developing age.
Pituitary
Q.~What are the main functions of the anterior
pituitary?
A.-It maintains mental equilibrium, activates the
brain cells, and is responsible for the brain capacity and
mental control. In addition to this it promotes growth
of all bones and tissues, and promotes lactation.
Q.-What conditions would we look for.if the anterior
lobe of the pituitary were out of balance?
A.-Unstable mentality; lack of control; unbalanced
sex organs.
Q.-What pathologies or diseases might be found
with a hypofunctioning anterior pituitary?
A.-All forms of infantilism-each depending on its
relationship to other glandular dysfunctions, such as the
thyroid type; pituitary type; gonadal type; thymic type,
etc.
Q.-What might be the causes of the above?
A.-Heredity; accidents during intro- or extra-uterine
life; other endocrine. dyscrosia.
Q.-Why should we think of diabetes if we found the
anterior pituitary low?
A.-Because it stimulates the production of insulin.
Q.-Why should we expect the posterior pituitary
rate, combined with that for prolapsed area, to relieve
the condition?
k
Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Visio11
A.-Because the posterior pituitary has the power of
stimulating these weak structures.
Q.-If this is accomplished, what has done it?
A.-The patient has treated himself with his own
vibration through the H.V.R.
Q.-What are the main functions of the posterior
pituitary?
A.-It stimulates the nervous system normally every-
where, and regulates wat~r metabolism. It also stimu-
lates contraction of muscles throughout the body;
influences metabolism, and increases respiration.
Q.-How might we use this to good advantage with
the H.V.R.?
A.-By tuning the V.R. for the posterior pituitary
into any structure which is prolapsed. In any condition
of ptosis, atony, or even in congestion, it will relieve the
trouble through its nervous stimulation.
Q.-What conditions would we look for if the
posterior pituitary were out of balance?
A.-The patient would be "keyed-up"; nervous;
thin, if the gland were hyper; fat and phlegmatic if it
were hype.
Q.-What happens when the posterior pituitary is
overstimulated, and what is the most common cause of
overfunction?
A.-It inhibits the anterior pituitary. The most
common cause is worry.
Q.-What diseases would we look for with hyper-
posterior pituitary?
A.-Metrorrhagia, menorrhagia, and every condition
that shows lack of tone.
Q.-What other glands might we consider closely
associated with the pituitary?
A.-Ovaries, testicles, thyroid, suprarenals, mam-
mary and prostate (anterior pituitary).
Frohlich's syndrome is a disorder of both anterior
and posterior pituitary and the diencephalon. This gives
the extreme girdle obesity, and may occur at any age. It
may be due to traumatic, haemorrhagic, neoplastic and
Questions and Answers 139
other diseases of the pituitary, and the suprarenal cortex
and gonads may also be involved.
Pancreas
Q.-What type of gland might we call the pancreas?
A.-A gland of digestion.
Q.-What type of conditions would we be most con-
cerned with in connection with this gland?
A.-Those of digestion.
Q.-What is the function of the pancreas?
A.-It secretes insulin; maintains blood sugar at
normal level; aids in the metabolism of fats and carbo-
hydrates, the absorption and storage of glycogen in the
liver, and its conversion back into glucose when needed.
Q.-What is a disease of hypofunction of the
pancreas?
A.-Diabetes.
Q.-What might we differentiate?
A,-Hyperthyroidism; hypertension; renal glyco-
suria; diabetes insipidus.
Q.-What symptoms might we trace to diabetes?
A.-Intestinal digestive disturbances; also kidney
disturbances (from sugar); skin irritation; cramps in
muscles (especially legs); skin infections, as furuncles
and carbuncles; pyorrhea; retinitis; iritis; cataract;
neuritis; acidosis. While almost any of these might
come from other conditions, when we discover any of
them we may look for diabetes, which means hypo-
function of the pancreas.
Q.-Name a condition of hyperfunction, and its
symptoms.
A.-Hyperiusulinism. This is often seen in children
of diabetic mothers, with symptoms of hunger, weakness,
nervousness, palpitation, burning sensation inside, low
blood pressure and temperature, and low blood sugar.
Q.-What other glands are closely related to the
pancreas?
A.-The pituitary, adrenals and liver-and watch
the lymph.
K2
Drown H.V.R. and Radio-Vision
Ovaries and Uterus
Q.-What are the functions of the ovaries?
A.-To activate the thyroid; stimulate the anterior
pituitary; develop the ovum and corpus luteum, produc-
ing menstruation or a pregnancy, as the case may be.
They also give an internal secretion which is responsible
for the development of features, growth, and of the uterus
and vagina. In addition, they are responsible for the
imbedding of the ovum in the uterus for its period of
gestation; for the placenta, and for the relaxation of the
symphysis pubis; they assist in the secretion of milk.
Q.-In what conditions would we be liable to find the
ovaries low in function?
A.-Amenorrhea; menopause; thyroidectomy;
obesity (trunk and thighs).
Q.-What are some of the conditions following a
hypofunctioning of the ovaries?
A.-Arthritis; epilepsy; cardiovascular and nervous
disturbances.
Q.-Wny might we think of cardiovascular and
nervous disturbances, and how does this happen?
A.-Because the ovaries are so closely related to the
thyroid, which sensitizes every organ and tissue in the
body through the sympathetic nervous system. The
cardiovascular and nervous disturbances would come
from obesity and toxic absorption.
Q.-What might be some predisposing factors causing
low-functioning ovaries?
A.-Inherited or constitutional disturbances.
Q.-What are some exciting causes?
A.-Tumours; trauma; cysts; climatic conditions;
lack of tone through vitamin deficiency; deficiency of
other glands; surgery or X-ray; castration; contracted
ovary.
Q.-How may we decide as to the condition of these
ovaries?
A.-By, with and through ca:reful and intelligent use
of one's head, hands and the H.V.R.
Questions and Answers
Q.-In an overfunctioning ovary or ovaries, what
might we expect to find?
A.-Metrorrhagia or menorrhagia; enlargement of
the uterus; ovarian cysts; polypus growth of uterus.
Q.-What results might complicate or follow these
conditions?
A.-Hypertension; hyperthyroidism; anemia; tuber-
culosis.
Q.-From an endocrinological standpoint, how would
we account for a uterine fibroid?
A.-The anterior pituitary is closely related to the
ovaries, and increases connective tissue; the uterus and
ovaries are, of course, as one.
Q.-What other glands besides the pituitary are
closely related to the ovaries and uterus?
A.-The thyroid, suprarenals and mammary.
Q.-Why would we relate the uterus and ovaries to
these glands?
A.-Because the pituitary stimulates these, as all
other structures, giving them the power to act normally.
The mammary is directly concerned with the functions of
the uteru:; and ovaries-that of menstruation and
pregnancy. The thyroid is important and closely related
to the ovaries and uterus in that it stimulates the posterior
pituitary in the functions of the uterus and ovaries.
Q.-From the H.V.R. standpoint, what would we do
if we had a patient with symptoms indicating a goitre-if
she were thin, nervous, impatient; gave a history of
menorrhagia or metrorrhagia; was exhausted even after
a night's sleep?
A.-We would test for the function of the ovaries,
uterus, posterior pituitary, mammary and thyroid
particularly.
Q.-What might we expect to find?
A.-Hyperfunction.
Q.-What would be our next procedure?
A.-To go through the entire glandular "blue print,"
using intelligence, and through our knowledge as a
physician analyze and correlate the findings so that we
r42 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
might decide the conditions in the body resulting from or
causing this group of glands to act in this way. Never
fail to diagnose all the glands. Never get in a hurry,
or feel too sure that because a certain gland or glands
register hypo or hyper a certain condition must be
present. Always get the complete '' blue print.'' In
the beginning one is apt to be hasty in diagnosis and
judgment, but the longer he uses the Drown Therapy the
more careful he becomes in the detail and completeness
of his diagnosis. Why? Because therein rests his
success; one failure in a new field will attract attention,
while a failure in an old one will pass unnoticed as an
accident or as carelessness-thus it is always excused.
-
Testicles and Prostate
Q.-What is the function of the testicles?
A.-That of reproduction.
Q.-To what endocrines in the female do they corre-
spond?
A.-The ovaries.
Q.-To what other endocrine 1s the reproductive
function closely related?
A.-The pituitary.
Q.-What glands are closely related to the male
gonads?
A.-The anterior pituitary, thyroid, thymus, supra-
renal cortex, pancreas, ovaries and pineal.
Q.-With what endocrine elements is the orchic
hormone formed?
A.-Testicles (using nitrogen); prostate fusing
carbon); thyroid (using iodin); pituitary (using phos-
phorus). This is chemistry.
Q.-Why is the anterior pituitary so necessary to the
orchic?
A.-Because it produces courage, optimism and
mental control through its relationship.
Q.-What condition would result in the anterior
pituitary following castration?
A.-Atrophy.
Questions and Answers 143
Q.-What follows this atrophy of the anterior
pituitary?
A.-Loss of mental control and courage. For a time
this would cause the patient to be very combative and
unreasonable; later he would grow fat and lazy, with
little interest, and no combativeness, because the posterior
pituitary would have become overstimulated, and worn
out from the long period of ov.erfunctioning.
Q.-When 'Ye find low orchic function, for what
should we look?
A.-Inherited or acquired diseases.
Q.-What might cause a low functioning orchic?
A.-Inherited or acquired disease; acute infectious
diseases, especially parotitis; also tuberculosis; diabetes;
venereal disease (both inherited and acquired); and a
metal poisoning from thallium (used for killing rats),
which gives all the symptoms of metallic poisoning.
Q.-With a hyperorchic condition in a growing boy,
what would you expect to find?
A.-Precocious puberty; excessive development of
the organs; rapid skeletal growth, ceasing early, and
resulting in short arms and legs; premature tooth erup-
tion; separation of teeth; malposition or overcrowding;
hirsutism; nervous and mental symptoms; perhaps a rise
in temperature; tachycardia or tremour.
The prostate has only an external secretion, controlled
by the testicles and the pituitary. It hypertrophies
normally after the individual reaches fifty years of age.
After castration it atrophies. It does not form a hormone,
and only combines with the testicles, but it is very im-
portant in its own particular field. Its function is that of
aiding in reproduction.
Q.-What chemical is utilized by the prostate?
A.-Carbon.
Q.-What disturbances usually follow hyperfunction?
A.-Bladder disturbances, from both acute and
chronic prostatitis.
Q.-What other endocrines should we think of in
relation to the prostate?
A.-Testicles, thyroid and pituitary.
r44 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
Q.-Why?
A.-Because these form the orchic hormone, and the
prostate combines with this hormone.
Thyroid
Q.-How would we determine whether or not the
thyroid were normal?
A.-By testing and measuring its function. On the
H.V.R. a measurement of 5/ro is normal; anything
below or above would be hypo or hyper.
Q.-What type of conditions would you expect to find
if the thyroid were functioning, say, 8/ ro?
A.-Conditions resulting from a hyperthyroid-such
as extreme nervousness; tachycardia; exophthalmus,
etc.
Q.-If the patient's " picture " were as follows:
sluggish mentality; generalized obesity; specialized fat
above the clavicle and back of hands; expressionless
face; slow pulse; low blood pressure; a continual feeling
of coldness-what would you expect the thyroid to
register?
A.-From o to 2/ro.
Q.-What other glands are related to the thyroid?
A.-Testicles, ovaries, suprarenals, mammary;
anterior pituitary.
Parathyroids
Q.-What are the important functions of the para-
thyroids?
A.-To regulate the distribution of calcium in the
body; build fat; control nerve and muscle irritability;
aid in detoxication.
Q.-What is their relation to other glands?
A.-They stimulate the suprarenals to secrete
adrenalin; they are governed to some extent by the
pituitary; they sustain the mammary and pancreas, as
these both use carbon, through the carbohydrates and
starches, in their anabolism of fat.
Questions and Answers I45
Q.-What would you expect the parathyroids to
register in a condition of tetany, and why?
A.-Very low. Tetany is usually due to low-function-
ing parathyroids; the calcium control is lacking, allowing
the neuromuscular impulse to go uninterrupted.
Q.-If your Radio-Vision picture showed decalcifica-
tion of bone (soap-bubble-looking condition), the leg or
arm bending easily, what might the parathyroids
register?
A.-Hyper-possibly I point 5/rn, or more.
Q.-What is ~he name of this condition?
A.-()steitis.
Q.-What is the first sign that might cause you to
suspect it?
A.-High-functioning parathyroids and tenderness of
bone.
Q.-Why does this condition arise?
A.-The parathyroids overfunction; this causes a loss
of calcium.
Q.-With what common disease might hyperpara-
thyroidism be confused?
A.-Addison's disease.
Q.-How may it be differentiated?
A.-With the H.V.R.
Q.-What other conditions might be found when
there are overfunctioning parathyroids?
A.-Tumours; cysts; bone cysts and tumours;
spontaneous fractures; bony deformities; renal stones;
calcium deposits in many parts of the body.
Thymus
Q.-What are the functions of the thymus?
A.-Little is known of this gland. It influences
growth, and may be connected with the production of
lymphocytes, as it is made up largely of lymphoid tissue.
It is checked in its action by the pineal.
Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
Q.-What effect do infectious diseases seem to have on
the thymus?
A.-They cause its atrophy.
Spleen
Q.-What is the chief function of the spleen?
A.-It is a detoxicant.
Q.-ln what conditions would we consider this gland?
A.-In all toxic conditions.
Q.-What is another function of the spleen?
A.-It removes dead cells.
Q.-In what way would we use this, with the H.V.R.?
A.-When making a blood count, if we found mast
cells, etc., we would investigate the condition of the
spleen; also if we found waste tissue, which is really dead
cell matter.
Q.-What is one condition of hyper/unction of the
spleen?
A.-Banti's disease (extreme anemia).
Q.-In what conditions might the spleen be depleted?
A.-Typhoid; typhus; malaria; severe anemias.
Q.-What glands are related to the spleen?
A.-Hepatic; suprarenals. The lymph is also asso-
ciated with the spleen.
The spleen could well indicate the constitution with
which one is born, while the .suprarenals indicate the
changes brought about through the individual's experi-
ences here. If a patient has a good spleen, even though
he may be quite ill, he has a much better chance of
recovery than if the spleen were not functioning properly.
* * *
Q.-What gland or glands would be considered most
important in making a complete diagnosis?
A.-All.
Q.-Why?
A.-So that they may be correlated with the blood
Questions and Answers 147
count, urinalysis and clinical findings, in order to analyze
the case as a whole and thereby treat scientifically.
Q.-In what type of conditions would you be inclined
to use the rate for the posterior pituitary?
A.-Those which need toning up.
Q.-Name some conditions in which this rate might
be used, and how.
A.-Atony of the stomach-combining the rate for
the posterior pituitary with that of the stomach; prolapsus
of the uterus-using the rate for the posterior pituitary
with that of the uterus; ptosis of the transverse colon-
combining the posterior pituitary rate with that of the
transverse colon.
Q.-What two endocrines may be low in function
where one finds prolapsus, ptosis or atony of any part of
the body, and why?
A.-The posterior pituitary and the suprarenals-
because the posterior pituitary stimulates the muscles and
the suprarenals build strength and tone.
Q.-What is the chief function of the suprarenal
medulla?
A.-It stimulates the sympathetic nerves and inhibits
the parasympathetics.
Q.-How would you expect this to affect the cardio-
vascular system?
A.-It would increase the blood pressure and heart-
beat, and would contract the blood vessels, thereby
shortening coagulation time.
Q.-Just how does the medullary portion of the
suprarenals stimulate?
A.-Through its secretory function, producing
adrenalin. The suprarenals, through their medullary
function, might be called the glands of expression, or
action, and emotion. They give us adaptation for sudden
outbursts of energy for use in self-protection.
Q.-In which types of cases would you expect the
glandular set-up to be most important?
A.-All cases.
148
Q.-Why?
Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
A.-Because it forms a basis for checking the entire
diagnosis.
Q.-What are some functions of the suprarenal
cortex?
A.-It regulates carbohydrate metabolism, sodium
secretion and renal function; gives body strength; stores
and manufactures vitamin G.
Q.-What disease is typical of suprarenal dysfunc-
tion; is it hypo or hyper, and in it which portion of the
suprarenals is affected]
A.-Addison's disease, resulting from hypofunction
of the suprarenal cortex.
Q.-What are the syndrome of symptoms in hyper
and hypofunction of the suprarenal medulla, and why?
A.-In hypofunction there is a feeling of weakness,
tiredness, exhaustion, lack of ambition-because of
failure of the adrenalin to stimulate the cardiovascular
system. In hyperadrenia there is a weakness and ex-
haustion due to too much adrenalin, which is so stimu-
lating that the cardiovascular system gives out. These
patients are tired when they arise, even though they seem
to have had a good night's sleep.
Q.-Generally speaking, how would you expect to
find the suprarenals functioning in low and high blood
pressure?
A.-Low in low blood pressure, high in high blood
pressure.
Q.-Why?
A.-Because of the increase and decrease of adrenalin.
In discussing the suprarenals, George W. Crile, M.D.,
has said, '' The driving force of fear and its lesser form,
worry, stimulates human beings to striving competition,
rivalries and jealousies. The greatest and most constant
fear which besets man is fear of his fellow-man. The
instinct of fear expressed in animals is expressed as fight
or flight. It is present in man, too, but with the differ-
ence that it is not translated into such outward actions;
instead, it is registered as anxiety, fear, worry, which
Questions and Answers 149
bring about inward reactions in circulation and blood
chemistry, governed by the suprarenal medulla and
thyroid gland, quite like those which would occur if these
emotions were expressed as the more primitive outward
actions. You see when the stimuli to these mechanisms
are sufficiently strong and no action ensues, it becomes
an emotion, so the difference between action and emotion
is one of degree and not stimulation.''
Q.-What conditions in the chart would cause one to
look for Addison's disease?
A.-Low function of the suprarenal cortex; low
blood pressure; low function of the heart as an organ;
blood urea high; gastric subacidity; traces of albumin
and sugar in the urine; low haemoglobin and low
erythrocytes. These are in ratio. Sometimes there
would be a lymphocytosis.
Q.-With what condition might we confuse an ad-
vanced case of Addison's disease?
A.-Pernicious anemia.
Q.-What are two main points of differentiation?
A.-Pigmentation and blood picture.
Q.-What glands might be affected in a well-estab-
lished case of Addison's disease?
A.--All.
Q.-What is the activity of the parathyroids in rela-
tion to calcium?
A.-They provide a convenient mechanism for the
quick mobilization of calcium. Often it is vital that this
element be made available quickly, in sufficient amounts
for the protection of the body. Conversely, by with-
drawing their activity, the parathyroids allow the salts of
calcium to be deposited in nature's great storehouse, the
bones. Then when needed in some great stress or strain,
calcium is poured into the blood stream in large quanti-
ties, as in haemorrhage, fractures, etc. Calcium retards
the transmission and diminishes the effect of impulses
travelling through the nerves· to the neuromuscular
system, thus serving as an excellent regulator of that
action mechanism.
r50 Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision
There are many toxic conditions, such as stryc;hnin
poisoning, intestinal toxemia and hyperthyroidism,
which lower the reaction to normal stimuli in various
parts of the body, so that even though the number of
impulses and their speed of delivery are normal, it
markedly affects the neuromuscular apparatus, causing
abnormal contractions such as spasms and contractures
of both voluntary and involuntary muscles. The func-
tion of the parathyroids is quickly to mobilize calcium
from the bones and thus reduce the level of voluntary
and involuntary muscular contractions. When the
calcium in the blood sinks too low, the result is tetany.
The parathyroids act in the same way as an electric
rheostat-preventing overloading.
Q.--How do the parathyroids regulate calcium?
A.-They store it in the bones-when in excess in the
blood stream, and quickly mobilize it from the bones
when needed.
Q.-From the H.V.R. standpoi:Q.t, what conditions
would you tie in with the parathyroids?
A.-Haemorrhage; shock; severe intestinal toxemias;
strychnin poisoning.
Q.--:-How would you apply this H.V.R. knowledge?
A.-First, through careful diagnosis of the function
of the parathyroids; next, normalizing them; also treat-
ing the rate for the parathyroids into the part affected.
Q.-Why are the parathyroids and their regulation of
calcium so important?
A.-Because they assist in the growth and mainten-
ance of bone; they hold the normal calcium level in the
blood; through the calcium they affect nerve and muscle
irritability.
Q.-What are some of the chief functions of calcium
that show the importance of the. parathyroids?
A.-Bone and tooth formation; coagulation of blood;
nerve and muscle irritability; making for the permea-
bility of the cell wall--osmosis; regulation of heart
rhythm.
Questions and Answers 151
Q.-To what other glands have the parathyroids an
important relation? ·
A.-They stimulate the suprarenals to secrete
adrenalin; menstrual disorders are related to' lack of
calcium; they are closely related to the thyroid in an
antagonistic manner; also to the suprarenals.
Q.-What pathology is found in low parathyroid
function?
A.-Spasmodic croup; pylorospasm, mucous colitis;
gastralgia; all spasmodic ailments; asthma; hay fever;
urticaria; angioneurotic edema.
Q.-In what conditions of pathology might we find
the posterior pituitary abnormal in function?
A.-In those of heart, lungs, kidneys. It may be
abnormal, however, in almost any advanced pathology,
because of its interrelation with the other endocrines.
Q.-What are the main functions of the ovaries?
A.-Production of ova-menstruation and pregnancy.
Therefore pathology has largely to do with these con-
ditions.
Q.-What troubles might result from low function?
•A.--Contracted ovary, tumours, cysts, obesity (trunk
and thighs), and vasomotor ahd psychic disturbances.
Q.-What pathology results from hyperfunction of
the ovaries?
A.-Multiple ovarian cysts; low thyroid; early
menstruation; menorrhagia; enlarged uterus; polypus
growths.
Q.-What one outstanding disease might be confused
with .hyperthymus, or thymicolymphaticus?
A.-Hodgkins's disease.
Q.-What might be an important point in differentia-
tion?
A.-The blood picture.
Q.-What is the blood picture in Hodgkin's disease?
A.-Lymphoid cells; giant cells; eosinophils, and a
secondary anemia. In an enlarged thymus we have
symptoms resulting from intrathoracic pressure. In
152 Drown H.V.R. and Radio-Vision
Hodgkin's disease, there may also be an enlargement of
the thymus.
Q.-What is the relation between the thymus, supra-
renals and gonads?
A.-lt is an inverse relationship, in that a failure of
the adrenalin secretion seems to cause hyperplasia of the
thymus, while increased adrenalin may result in involu-
tion of the thymus; it hypertrophies after castration.
Q.-What are some of the conditions necessary to
enable one to differentiate from thymicolymphaticus?
A.-Growths which might produce pressure,. such as
malignant gliomas; intrathoracic goitre; aneurysm;
pericarditis and other disorders of the heart, lungs or
larynx.
There is a condition known as Graves' thymico-
lymphatic constitution, which is much like a mild hyper-
thyroid, and is characterized by three principal features:
I. Persistent thymus·.
2. Enlargement of all the lymph nodes and the spleen.
3. Aorta, heart and suprarenals less than normal size.
This is of developmental origin, in which the lymphoid
tissue has not differentiated properly, and has tlms
developed into the more highly specialized type.
Individuals in this class are quick, alert, with brilliant
eyes, graceful bodies, delicate hands, feet and features,
and all the signs and symptoms which might be found in
an overactive thyroid.
Q.-What diseases have vitamin deficiency?
A.-Scurvy and rickets.
Printedin_Great Britainby
The Surrey Fine Art Press,Redhill.
