{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__curtiss___philosophy_of_war.pdf","mytitle":"Philosophy Of War","mylang":"de"}
THE PHILOSOPHY
OF
WAR
B,
DR. AND MRS. F. HOMER CURTISS
Co-founders of
The Universal Religious Foundation, Inc.,
The Order of Christian Mystics
AND
Co-authors of
THE CURTISS BOOKS
THIRD ANI) ZNLARGED EDmON
1939
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
WASHINGTON. D. C.
First Edition Copyrighted by
mE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO
Entered at Stationer's Hall, London
1917
Third Edition Copyrighted, 1939, by
Tnn UN.unasAI. Riucrous FOUNDATION, INC.
Translation and all oilier rights reserved
LODOM £caTa
L. N. FOWLER & CO.,
7 imperial Arcade, Ludgate Orcas,
Loxaoa, E. C., 4, ENGLAND
Printed in the United Stases of America
PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION
After a period of twenty-two years since the
first edition, we have been strongly urged to re-
issue this volume. One reason for this is that
the outbreak of the war in Europe makes it as
timely now as it was when the first edition was
issued during the last World War.
Another reason is that we.wish to make avail-
able to the younger generation our Cosmic Soul
Science interpretation of the basic causes of all
war, which proved so enlightening, helpful and
comforting to the thousands of readers of the
previous editions.
Since the principles remain the same and
world conditions are so similar to those of the
last war, we present this new third edition al-
most as it was first writtenexcepting the first
two chaptersand with no attempt to bring it
"up to date." For the applications of the law
are as evident now as in the past.
We leave the text with only minor revisions
and rearrangement of paragraphs because of
V
vi PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION
the many statements whose later fulfillment
makes them almost prophetic.
Our endeavor has always been to point out
the folly of war, your personal responsibility in
helping to produce the basic causes, and what
positive and effective action you can take to
counteract them and help to shorten these "days
of tribulation." For if you all understand the
workings of the law and courageously work
with it, you can not only save yourself needless
anxiety, fear and suffering, but you can also
bring light and comfort to others, as well as "do
your bit" to help stop the war.
F. HOMER CURTISS, M.D.
Washington, D. C.
September 12th, 1939.
PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION
When Chapters VI and VII were first pub-
lished (1909) as monthly lessons for the Order
of Christian Mystics they were written for ad-
vanced students of Cosmic Soul Science who
were familiar with the fundamental terms and
conceptions of Christian Mysticism, but since
their publication in book form as the First Edi-
tion of this work there has been such a demand
from the general public for further explanation
of the principles on which those chapters were
based, that three new chapters of more general
interest and not so deeply metaphysical, but re-
lating to the war in Europe, have been added.
It is the prayer of the authors that the book
thus enlarged may fulfil a still greater mission
than the First Edition.
TIlE AUThORS.
Philadelphia, Pa.,
June 1, 1918.
vu
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
PREFACE TO THE Taziw EDITION V
PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION . vii
I A SPIRITUAL WAR BULLETIN 1
II WORLD PEAcE . . 6
[II WHY W&i? 18
W VAluous ASPECTS OF WAR . 32
V PERMANENT PJ&cE; GOD'S PLAN 57
VI "THE WAR" OR THE PRINCIPLE
OF RESISTANCE 75
VII Trn BATrLE OF ARMAGEDDON 97
VIII A WORLD-WIDE CALL TO pypj 125
IX A PRAYER FOR WORLD HARMONY 141
X Ths SYMBOLOGY OF THE STARS
AND STRIPES . . . . 155
zx
CHAPTER I
COPY OF A LETTER ISSUED BY
Itje 'Iniberai IeItgiou
jfounbation, 3nc.
A non-sedaTion non-profit, co-operative rdigioij, and ilenthropic aasocithon
incoirporate4'for the pwpoee of pvo,noti better widar4ing,fdlow.
ship gnd co-operation among the rdig.ons end peou of the world.
INTERNATIONAL HEADQUARTERS
35iò QUEBEC STREET
WASHINGTON. a c.
September 7th 1939.
A Spiritual War Bulletin
Danzig Not the Issue:
The war that has now begun in Europe is
fundamentally not merely for the possession of
Danzig and the Corridor. It is not merely to
add Poland to the countries which Hitlernot
the German peoplehas seized. It is not merely
a war for the destruction of all political, eco-
nomic, mental and spiritual freedom and self-
1
2 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
determination, which are the basic ideals of the
democracies. It is not even merely a war to
impose a non-benevolent despotism upon free
peoples. It is something far more fundamental
and important.
ChzisHnnity or Atheism:
Behind all the outer reasons, it is a war for
the ultimate destruction of Christianity and the
type of civilization which Christianity has built
up. It is fundamentally a war between the
forces of the Anti-Christ1 and those of the
Christ: between the forces of darkness (the
Black Forces) and the forces of Light; for
only by the total destruction of all freedom of
religious thought and ideals, and the complete
domination of atheism, can dictator-despotisms
be maintained.
1)l keep in mind that the term "the Christ" or "the
Christ-force," as used us the teachings of our Cosmic Soul
Science, refer not to any personality, but to the Cosmic Christ-
principle. This is the universal Life-aspect the Creative-aspect,
the spiritual Sun-aspect or the Son-aspect of the Trinity. The
Father-force manifests as Divine Will, the Mother-force as
Divine Love, while the Sos-force or Christ-force manifests as
the warm, loving Spiritual Life-force of all inanirind, just as
the physical Sun is the source of the warm, loving Physical life-
force of all the kingdoms of Nature, no matter what name may
be given to this Cosmic Life-principle in other religions. It was
this Cosmic Christ-principle which the Master Jesus embodied
to a superlative degree.
The Anti-Christ is naturally made up of all the forces that
oppose and work against the reign of the Christ in the hearts
and minds of men.
A SPIRITiJAL WAR BULLETIN
No Personal Neutrality:
No matter what nations as a whole may do,
once this fundamental truth is understood,
there can be no personal neutrality. All honest
thinkers must be on the side of religion in some
form, and its spiritual .ideals, or on the side of
atheistic Bolshevism, despotism and the Anti-
Christ.
Prepare to Sacrifice:
Your first duty, therefore, as a self-respect-
ing free moral agent, is to search your mind and
heart and determine where yo1 stand. To what
kind of civilization are you willing to submit
and give your support? Once having chosen
the side of spiritual freedom and independence,
you must prepare to make any and every sacri-
fice,personal, mental, financial,as do the
Communists, to protect, support, and spread the
ideals you have chosen, through whatever chan-
nel or organization you may choose that most
appeals to you for the expression of those ideals.
Pity, Not Hate:
Be sure not to hate, but to pity and to pray for
the kindly but deceived and misled German
4 ThE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
people, for it i not they who desire war, but
their leaders, who are obsessed by the black
forces of the Anti-Christ.1
Radiate Strength:
You should cast out all fear, and remain caIrn
centers of peace, poise, and radiant confidence,
which you will unconsciously broadcast to all
you contact. Be strong that others may find
strength in your strength, and peace in your
peace. Rely on the spiritual power of united,
concentrated and consecrated prayer to free and
to change the minds and hearts of the German
people so that they will refuse to endure the
continuation of war.
Loss of Morale:
The last war was stopped, not by lack of men
and munitions but by the psychological and
spiritual power of the millions who were pray-
ing for peace, which caused a "loss of morale"
among the German people. And if this war is
not suddenly stopped by revolution, catadysm,
or other tragedy, it can be stopped by the same
force of prayer, producing another 'loss of
morale."
I As explained in subsequent chapters herein.
A SPIRITUAL WAR BULLETIN 5
Pray at Noon:
We therefore invite all who will enlist under
the White Banner of the Christ to join with us
each day at noon or oftener in a "Prayer for
World Harmony" and a "Prayer for World
Peace" to help us mobolize the wotld for peace.
Free copies of these prayers will be sent to
anyone upon request. (Please enclose postage.)
Sincerely yours, for Peace, Harmony
and Brotherhood,
F. HOMER CURTISS, M.D.
President
CHAPTER II
WORLD EACE1
"To whom shall I speak, and give warning, that
they may hear? Behold, their ear is uncircumcised,
and they cannot harken: behold the word of the
Lordisuntothemareproach;theyhaveno delight
in it." Jeremiah, VI, 10.
"Men's hearts failing them for fear, and for
looking after those things which are coming upon
the earth.... And when these things begin to
come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads;
for your redemption draweth nigh."
St. Luke, XXI, 26-8.
"I will pray with the Spirit, and I will pray with
understanding." I Corinthians, XIV, 15.
Stability Essential:
Once we have a clear realization of the funda-
mental laws back of world conditions today,
then we can decide what is our individual duty
in regard to them.
All living and growing things require certain
basic stabilized conditions for their perfect man-
ifestation. The grain requires the stable con-
ditions of the furrow, the flower the garden,
the egg the nest, the babe the home, the nation
'Released Sept 7, 1939.
6
WORLD PEACE 7
its homeland, as the field for its expression.
While activities and changes are necessary
within these stabilized conditions e. g., plants
need cultivating, eggs need turning, children
need training, nations need governing, etc.
nevertheless, a general condition of peaceof
uninterrupted constructive activitiesis essen-
tial for development, maturity and perfection.
Therefore, permanent peace is God's plan for
His various manifestations in the world. Hence
it is man's ultimate destiny.
Man's Responsibility:
But because man has free-will to follow the
desires of the flesh and of his owti petty person-
ality, instead of working in harmony with God's
Divine Plan, he sets up antagonisms and de-
structive forces between himself and God and
between himself and his fellow men, both per-
sonally and nationally. These destructive forces
naturally revert to mantheir creatorto be
adjusted and redeemed, or to be experienced by
him, personally perhaps in fist-fights or other
disastrous conditions, and nationally as wars.
Not the Father's Will:
The terrible conditions that prevail today are,
therefore. not the Father's will, but are the wil-
8 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
ful creations of man; the result of his opposition
to Divine Will and his violation of Divine Law.
Furthermore, the unbrotherliness, intolerance,
selfishness, greed and aggression now manifest-
ing are not entirely the creations of the present
generation, but are the accumulations of all man-
kind which were not worked out through the
last World War and otherwise, which must still
come up for adjustment.
The Basic Causes:
These inhannonies find expression not di-
rectly through the masses of the people them-
selves, but through leaders whose ideals are at
variance with the laws of God and His Divine
Plan. The basic causes of these conditions,
therefore, are first, ignorance of our origin and
destiny, and second, our lack of response to our
inner God-guidance, our turning away from
religion, our lack of recognition of our relation
to God, and our failure to correlate with and
worship Him.
The Anti-Christ:
This failure of proper religious training and
practice is augmented by a deliberate campaign
by the forces of the Anti-Christ to enslave the
WORLD PEACE 9
nations of the world, both by stimulating the
ignoble animal passions of selfishness, greed and
national aggrandizement, and by a revolt against
all forms of religion and worship of God. The
conflict, then, is not primarily against men and
economic and other material conditions, but
against the "principalities and powers of dark-
ness" which seek to ruin all forms of religion,
law and order, and finally all the peace, culture
and beauties that man's slow evolution from
barbarism to civilization has won for him.
Anti-religious Propaganda:
Perhaps the most notable instrument to be
obsessed by the dark forces was the monk
Rasputin. Through him the evil forces began to
infect and demoralize Russia. But the full fury
of the destructive forces found expression
through the World War. Yet, since the forces
of right, justice, freedom and independence won
that war, the Anti-Christ had to fall back upon
fostering irreligion, thus winning Russia defi-
nitely over to anti-religion. And it is that virus
that has more or less infected the nations of
Europe, and has even found some foothold in
the Western world. And since no nation can
follow the principles of love, tolerance, freedom
10 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
and independence of the individual as inculcated
by Christianity and at the same time engage in
wars of aggression and national aggrandize-
ment, the fundamental conflict is between Chris-
tianity on the iine hand and Paganism on the
other; between the followers of the Christ and
those of the Anti-Christ.
What to Do:
What can you as an individual do about it?
The first step is to realize that God's plan is for
permanent peace, and determine to adjust your
personal life to it. For only as you bring your
heart and mind and life into harmony with
God's plan for peace, can you manifest mental,
emotional and bodily harmony. And there can
be no permanent peace or harmony among
nations without the expression of peace and
harmony within the individuals of the nations.
The first step, therefore, is to establish perma-
nent peace and harmony in your own life.
Your Reaction:
If you find this attainment more difficult now
than formerly; if you are more nervous, more
irritable, more selfish than usual, when you have
eliminated all possible physical causes, then look
WORLD PEACE 11
for a metaphysical cause. Realize that the ter-
rible inharmonies engendered by warring ide-
ologies and warring nations have caused the ac-
cumulation of vast clouds of destructive forces
which are broadcast throughout the mental at-
mosphere of all humanity. Hence, every time
you give way to anger, intolerance, antagonism
or other destructive emotions, even impatience
and irritation, you open the door of your mind
and tune-in to the black clouds of antagonism
generated by the race. If they are thus admitted,
through even a crack, their antagonism may
flow in with ever increasing power until you are
swept away into an outburst of passion which
you had no intention of expressing and which
may greatly surprise and mortify you. In this
way you are personally contributing to the
forces which culminate in war. Therefore
watch your reactions and control them.
Your Responsibility:
Since "thoughts are things" and words are
their avenue of expression, every time you talk
of, or excuse or palliate war you are adding to
the forces of war. And every time you neglect
an opportunity to speak for, pray for, and radi-
ate peace, harmony and love, you have failed in
12 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
your duty, and to that extent you are personally
responsible for the continuation of the war-
spirit. Do you choose to have such a reproach
rest upon your conscience? Therefore, every
time you feel inharmony arising, instantly check
yourself and refuse to respond to it, and
counteract it by concentrating on feeling and
positively radiating peace and love. Instead of
responding, smile and say; "Thy banner over
me, 0 God, is peace, harmony and love. It
penetrates me, fills me, radiates from me and
blesses all I contact."
The Next Step:
Having polarized yourself to positive peace
radiations, the next step is to do your part to
neutralize, counteract and dissipate the de-
structive thought-forces in the world at large
which make for war, by consciously broadcast-
ing their opposites. Since the World War was
stopped, not by a lack of men and munitions,
but by psychological and spiritual forces
thoughts and prayerswhich caused a "loss of
morale" in the ranks and in the homes of the
Central Powers, and which made the call for an
armistice imperative, just so can the present
war-thoughts be neutralized by the same means.
WORLD PEACE 13
And the greatest psychological and spiritual in-
strument to that end is earnest and understand-
ing prayer.
The Power of Prayer:
We therefore earnestly urge all who wish
thus to enlist their forces on the side of peace,
freedom and righteousness, to repeat some such
prayer as our Prayer for World Peace or our
Prayer for World Harmony,1 morning, noon
and night, but especially at noon, and spread
the ideal as widely as possible that its spiritual
vibrations may affect and inspire the hearts of
all manldnd, and particularly the leaders of
nations, with its ideals, thus dissolving all
thoughts of aggression, domination and war.
Principles, Not Personalities:
Systematically spread the thought that it is
wrong principles, ideals and rules of life that
you must combat, rather than persons or peoples,
however misguided they may seem to you. The
masses express largely what they are taught.
Therefore, do not condemn any person or
nation, nor despise any religion or race. They
may sincerely believe what they have been
'See (latter IL
14 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
taught is right, no matter how ignorant they
are of God's law of permanent peace, or how
much they have been misled. Simply envelop
all who hold negative and inharmonious ideals
of domination and aggression, and neutralize
all destructive forces, with the radiance of
Divine Light, Life and Love.
Concentration:
As we said in our Prayer for World Har-
tnony in 1917; "The concentration of the minds
and hearts of thousands of advanced students
in many lands who understand the power and
reality of the currents of force generated by
thought, aspiration, love, prayer and the will-
for-righteousness, will cause such an outpouring
of creative thought-force and love-force that it
will rise like incense into the higher realms and
rain down upon the hearts and minds of human-
ity with such quickening power as to fructify
every mind capable of grasping and responding
to the ideals which the prayer embodies, and
vivify them into action.1
You Are an Important Factor:
The results must be gained, not by an arbi-
trary Being who imposes His will upon a help-
1Conung World Clswiges, Curtiss, 115.
WORLD PEACE 15
less hiimzrnity, but by your responding to the
guidance of His love and compassion within
yourself. Hence there is not a single mzrn,
woman or child who cannot be an active factor
in bringing "peace on earth, good will toward
men." For by understanding the law you can
consciously focus the power of Spirit like a
blow-torch to melt and dissolve all obstructing
conditions. Thus will you become one of His
peacemakers.
Spiritual Fire:
Realize that when prayers are thus con-
sciously and understandingly used, they are not
mere pious words, but form definite channels
through which spiritual fire can be invoked and
focused upon humanity. With this God-power
ever at hand waiting to be invoked and used, we
must not ask God to save hnmzrnity while
humanity makes no effort; for it is humanity
which must save itself by learning to use the
powers God has already given it. And the first
to use these powers should be all advanced
thinkers who can understand the law. And
those who realize the power of prayer are re-
sponsible for its use.
16 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
Prayer at Noon:
Since it is noon somewhere every minute of
the twenty four hours, the concentration of
thousands of hearts and minds at that hour will
generate a mighty current of spiritual force
of great dynamic power which will sweep con-
tinuously around the world night and day.
Consciously flood the minds of all mankind
with the realization that only through physi-
cal, mental and spiritual freedom can the
highest aspirations of their Souls and the great-
ness of their nations be attained. For all must
realize that not by force and compulsion, but by
peace, reconciliation,1 brotherhood and co-
operation can the prosperity, culture and hap-.
piness of all peoples be achieved.
Prayer for World Peace
0 Thou glorious Source of all life, light and
love, our Lord God almighty! from whose heart
the Ray of Spirit in each mortal is sprung! let
the realization of our oneness in Thee descend
upon our hearts as heavenly dew, refreshing our
souls.
May the love of God and the fellowship of all
mankindwithout regard to race, creed or con-
'See lesson Reconciliatio,s. CurIu.
WORLD PEACE 17
ditionso Jill our hearts and minds that each
will gladly unite his forces for the attainment
of peace, fellowship and co-operation.
May all persons and classes and nations cease
their C nJlicts, and unselfishly strive for peace
and good-will, that world peace tnay speedily be
attained.
Let the calm of Thy eternal peace, which
passeth all intellectual understanding, envelop
us with its divine serenity. May it quiet the
turmoil of our minds, and the conflict of our
desires, dissolve our fears, and reveal to us the
essential brotherhood of all mankind.
Thus shall the power of Thy loving Spirit
bring victory over all opposition to the estab-
lishinent of Thy peace on earth, and good-will
among mankind. Amen.
Pause after each sentence and meditate upon
it. Visualize its radiance going out to envelop
all mankind. See the radiance which this Prayer
invokes dispelling the dark clouds of inharmony
and war as the Sun dispells fog, and stimulating
the growth of the good in each heart as the Sun
stimulates the growth of the sprout when the
fog has been dispelled and the Sun can perform
its constructive work. Thus will you do your
part to manifest God's plan for world peace.
CHAPTER III
WHY WAR?1
"The world is a field of battle where liberty
struggles with inertia by the opposition of active
force." Transcendental Magic, Levi, 31.
Why War?
The chaotic conditions now existing in Eu-
rope have elicited many questions from our
students throughout the world, especially those
in European countries, as to the mystical mean-
ing and the philosophical reason for the ap-
parent necessity for war, and why it is permitted
by a God of Love and Wisdom. In other words,
what is the reason for and the place of war in
the Cosmic Scheme or the Grand Plan of the
Universe? This chapter is an attempt, in a few
paragraphs, merely to outline and make compre-
hensible a stupendous subject whose roots go
deep into the beginnings of manifestation, and
which would require a large volume properly to
2Altho this was released on Oct 7th, 1914, it is still singularly
appropriate in 1939.
18
WHY WAR? 19
elucidate. For the principle of war is an ex-
pression of cosmic law.
National Sickness:
Strife and war among nations are simply
evidences of inharmony and sickness in the body
of hnminity; an effort of the body politic to
slough off those atoms which refuse to respond
to the higher key-note of civilization that is
struck by the more advanced conceptions of
Harmony, Brotherhood and Cooperation among
nations.1
War a Lancet:
War may be likened to the cruel lancet of the
surgeon which opens a festering boiL It causes
temporary suffering and bloodshed, but it per-
mits the escape of the mass of inharmony and
corruption which, if not otherwise neutralized,
would poison the entire body. And no real
healing can take place until the focus of in-
fection is utterly wiped out.
Your Battles:
In the daily battles for poise, control and
harmony which you begin consciously to light
1The atoms thus sloughed off are not ouly the individini
lives sacrificed in war, but are also the false ideals of selfish
isolation and individual aggrandizement regardless of others,
that obstruct the upward evolution of humanity as a whcle
20 ThE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
as soon as you endeavor to follow a higher
ideal, you may possibly find yourself worsted
in some of the skirmishes of the early stages.
And evil and inharmony may accumulate until
it can no longer be held back and must find
physical expression.
Thoughts Will Express:
It is a well-known principle of psychology
that thoughts express themselves through their
creators in terms of action, unless counteracted
by opposite thoughts of greater power. But
no matter how many skirmishes are lost, if you
persistently follow the Light of your highest
Ideal, be it ever so primitive to others, it will
lead you step by step to ultimate victory. If
you find yourself facing such an outbreak, it
means that you have created more inharmony
or evil than your present stage of spiritual un.
foldment is able to transmute, hence the pre-
cipitation.
Light Wins:
In all wars, on every plane of manifestation,
the forces which represent the Light; which
fight for progress, enlightenment, civilization,
the Brotherhood of Man and of Nations: which
WHY WAR? 21
truly fight on the side of St. George against the
Dragon, must ultimately win, for they become
channels through which the constructive, up-
lifting and spiritualizing currents of the Cosmic
Forces can find expression and manifest on
earth.
As we have said elsewhere, before any cycle
can close and the cyde return to its primordial
state of equilibrium, everything that persist-
ently stands in the way and prevents the mani-
festation of Divine Will, or the Ideal of that
particular cycle; everything that resicts the
indrawal and union; that refuses to respond to
the higher vibration or key-note of that cycle,
in other words, which refuses tq be redeemed,
must be wiped out of the path of that dosing
cycle and make way for the manifestation of
the new.
Adjustment Necessary:
Therefore there must be a great adjustment
at the dose of every cyde,and we are now
living in the days when the old Piscean Age is
still overlapping the beginning of the Aquarian
Age of Brotherhoodwhether it be of Race,
sub-race, nation or individual. If the cycle is
sufficiently advanced to pennit the adjustment
22 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
to be made by responding to the Law of
Harmony expressed through Love, Tolerance,
3rotherhood and Unselfishnesswhether of in-
dividuals, nations or Racesthen there need be
no war, for the resistance has been overcome.
Precipitated Evil:
But if the resistance to the Divine has built
up such a mass of inharmony (evil) that the
spiritual force of that cycle is not sufficient to
redeem it, then the adjustment must come as a
physical precipitation of the stored up inhar-
mony, through the avenue of physical conflict
or war; just as a cloud which is so saturated
with moisture that the Sun eannot absorb (re-
deem) it, must be precipitated as rain, hail or
snow crc the light of theSun can manifest on
earth.
Baptism of Blood:
As we said in 1917:1 "The countries of
Europe, each under its own banner, have been
passing through their baptism of blood and their
purification by fire; for only thus can their sins
be washed away and their chaff and evil weeds
consumed. America must also lift high her
1The Sign Aquarius, Curtiss.
'WHY WAR? 23
banner and take her place in the purifying lire
crc the mystical 'twelve thousand' of her tribe
can be chosen and sealed. Only those who
endure to the end receive the blessing. For
out of this terrible baptism there shall arise a
purified humanity."
France in War:
"France has had many baptismal experiences,
and each time she has taken an onward step, but
her natural frivolous disposition has always pre-
vented her from taking the great step which she
some day must takeL e., the recognition of the
Divine Law and its guiding power in her affairs
as a nation. For she rightfully belongs in the
van of those countries which are 'ready to em-
brace this newest, truest, yet oldest of all presen-
tations of the Wisdom Religion.
Her Opportunity:
"Therefore France is once again having her
opportunity to learn of the inner realities of life
and be willing to follow them. This we hope
she is learning today through her terrible bap-
tism of blood and her blinding tears of repent-
ance. And we already see in her eyes the deep
comprehension and the steadfast determination
24 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
of one who knows. Will she remain true to her
vision?
England's Tenacity:
"England is also passing through the greatest
testing in her history, but there are certain ra-.
cial (tribal) characteristics which make her les-
sons hard to learn. She can stand up with bull-
dog tenacity for truth and right as she sees it,
yet with the same tenacity she holds on to old
ideas and conceptions and traditions, and finds
it hard to let them go and admit that there can
be any new interpretation of truth? This fault
has heretofore always kept her just a little be-
hind in the great march of spiritual evolution.
Australia:
"Therefore we will consider her in the person
of her eldest son and heir, Australia. Here we
have a virgin country, unsullied by war; Eng-
lish, yet not England; the oldest land upon the
globe; a country that carries within its bosom
the magnetic influences of Those who first gave
to this world its impetus; of Those who first
1j this was written in 1917 she has learned many of her
lessons and made radical changes in her national life. Capable
observers have written that there has been a radical change in
the characteristics of her people toward sympathy, tenderness
and brotherhood.
WHY WAR? 25
descended and touched the children of men with
the divine spark of spiritual intelligence.1 It
now lies in a great measure uncultivated and
dormant, with large areas entirely barren. Her
cry comes to us out of the dim, forgotten past.
Her possibilities are great, but will her children
awaken? Will she lift high the banner of her
tribe and fall in line with the others?
Russia:
"Russia is a mere child among the nations,
'just emerging into adolescence. She has passed
her childhood stage of crudity and irresponsible
cruelty and is now facing the temptations of
youth. But as she wakes up in this great day of
trial she begins to feel the sinews of manhood
struggling for expression. When this great na-
tion finds herself, as she is sure to do sooner or
later, the war will quicidy end.
Her Awakening:
"She is now passing through a crucial test,
like a giant awakening from slumber and find-
ing himself in periL She is beginning to open
her eyes, although they are still clouded and
heavy with sleep. Reality and unreality merge
1See The Voice of Iii,, Curfiss, Chapter XIIL
26 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
into each other. She has had many lurid
dreams. She has ascended several rungs of the
great ladder and has seen the angels descending.
Will she let them enter in and purify her? Or
will she let a youthful lust for blood and a de-
sire for revenge pull her down?1
Germany:
"Germany we might call the bad boy of the
tribes, aitho now fully grown. Through am-
bition and pride he has opened the door to the
hordes of evil forces which are seeldng to ob-
sess humanity and wreak their will upon it.
Through giving expression to these forces, he
has become the instrument through which they
are being poured out into the world to the test-
ing of the other nations, just as Judas became
the instrument of testing to the other disciples.
Her Hnmii'tion:
"Hence his days of testing are mighty and
terrible on all planes. For Germany is not a
child, but a full-grown man, knowing good from
evil He has chosen, therefore let us draw a
1SisCe this was written the effects of her great injustices
and sufferings have brought on a fever of delirium which saps
her strength and makes her see all things distorted, taking
liberty to mean license, etc. She will recover, but as in all
fevers, it will be followed by a period of extrume weakness.
WHY WAR? 27
veil over his ultimate sorrow and humiliation
and pray that the time of his aliliction may be
shortened.
Lust for Power:
"The Germans, aitho of age, have not yet
reached the fulness of their national and per-
sonal karma; have not yet climbed to the top of
the first mystic 'mount' which is Sinai in the
wilderness, or the intellectual heights where the
great mass of the nation have awakened to their
individual responsibility. For they are still
dominated by the lust for power, dominion and
commercial supremacy, hence cannot see that
material advance, when not accQmpanied with
corresponding moral and spiritual advance, is
an ignis fatuus leading them to destruction.
Military Apron-strings:
"Germany as a nation, although fully grown
up and responsible, is still in leading strings.
Like a young man who has reached his ma-
jority, yet who has never been permitted to go
outside the front yard, it has not learned the
lessons of life. It has never been permitted to
exercise the rights or assume the responsibilities
of manhood. It has always been told to do this
28 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
or not to do that. It is still tied to the military
apron strings of the Kaiser.1
Needs Leading:
"The majority of the individuals who make
up its inhabitants are in a mental state in which
they desire to be led rather than be held respon-
sible for their actions. This has been repeatedly
demonstrated by her soldiers on the battlefield,
even by those drawn from the higher walks of
life. They therefore do not demand anything
higher of their Kaiser' than such leadership
as will bring material success, no matter what
the price, hence they are not ready for anything
better. And therefore it would be cruel to de-
mand that as a nation it should face the respon-
sibilities of a manhood it has never been per-
mitted to develop, although that great lesson
must be learned quickly.
Learning Lessons:
"However, many are waking up, only to find
themselves led by the leash they themselves have
accepted and made possible. They must there-
fore be let alone to learn the lessons which servi-
tude and failure alone can teach. To bring
'Today Hitler.
WHY WAR? 29
upon them wholesale cataclysms and disasters
of nature before these lessons are learned would
not fulfil their just karma.
Their Karma:
"They must be allowed to eat to their fill of
the fruit they themselves have picked, i. e., their
belief in the wisdom and justice of the leader-
ship of the Kaiser1 and his policies. So will
they find out the bitterness of the fruits he ob-
tains for them, thus proving in the only way
that they will realize and accept, his inability
to deliver that which he has promised and taught
them was the greatest good and the highest end,
ere they are ready for anything higher. When
they do awaken and begin to learn their lesson,
then as a nation they will begin to reap the ter-
rible national karma they have created by
blindly following the Kaiser.1 But until they
are ready to realize and understand and learn
their lesson the Great Law must take its course.
Russia's Karma:
"They will have plenty of karma when their
day of reaping begins, just as Russia is today
reaping the national karma which as a nation
'Today Hitler.
30 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
she created by her abject submission to the ig-
nominy of slavery and Czarism. For while it
seems as though Russia's recent actions are the
result of childish and almost insane folly, never-
theless they spring from the same trait which
permitted them to submit tamely for so many
generations to the shacides, the knout and the
unspeakable degradation of Siberia.
Your Duty:
"There are many other nations of whom you
would scarcely think, who are bearing their
banners and passing their testings. Therefore
do not give too great heed when you hear that
America is to be the seat of the New Race or
that any special part of the United States has
been chosen for its center. For all the nations
and tribes are in the melting-pot, and tith one
whose people come forth most fitted will be the
one chosen.
Respond Gladly:
"It is man, therefore, responding of his own
free-will to the guidance of the Divine, and not
the dictates of an arbitrary Being who imposes
his Will upon a helpless humanity, who must
bring about 'Peace on earth, good will toward
WHY WAR? 31
men.' Hence there is not a single man or wo-
man who cannot be an active factor in bringing
the Golden Age of Love, Peace, Harmony and
Brotherhood into manifestation the sooner,
through the controlling of thoughts, words and
emotions, and by overcoming his or her resist-
ance, and responding more and more under-
standingly and gladly, to the upward urge of
the Divine."
From The Sig* Aquarius, The Twelve Tribes (Released
March 7. 1917).
CHAPTER IV
VARIOUS ASPECTS OF WAR
Extracts culled from the authors' other writ-
ings concerning war.
Federation of Nations:
While this present conflict seems wholly evil,
it is not entirely so for the Race. Not only will
the old karmic debts be adjusted, but the con-
tending nations will be allowed to enter into a
federation in which the independence of each
nation or people will be guaranteedas broth-
ers, some older, some youngerin the great
social family. Thus war will be prevented for
a long period, and we can enter a new era with
a clean slate, as it were.
War Develops Unselfishness:
The war is developing in the Race as a whole,
an enormous number of the feminine qualities
love, compassion, sympathy, devotion, unsel-
fishness and serviceso necessary as the Race
32
VARIOUS ASPECTS OF WAR 33
enters the Aquarian or Woman's Age,1 the sign
of the Son of Man in the heavens.
Advanced Nations:
Among the contending nations the English,
French and Germans have reached the zenith
of their cydes as nations and hence must be
tested crc they can enter the new cyde? They
are classed among the nations which represent
the highest stage of civilization, culture, intel-
lectual and material advance on the planet to-
day, but they must now prove the truth of their
proud boasts; must prove whether their civili-
zation and culture is the result of true spiritual
growth or whether it is the mere veneer of intel-
lectual and material attainment, founded in
cruelty and intolerance, and without corre-
sponding spiritual unfoldment
A Spiritual Basis:
Has their so-called advance in civilization
brought their people into a greater realization
of the spiritual basis of all manifestation? Has
1See chapter on "The Woman's Age" in Why Are We Here?
Curtiss.
2Since the above was first published America entered the war
as a full-grown youth now assuming the great responsibilities of
manhood. Hence America and her institutions had also to be
tested and proved by fire.
34 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
it led them to strive for a more conscious com-
munion with the realms of spiritual conscious-
ness as a daily personal experience?
Soul Craving:
Has it taught them the folly of seeking to
satisfy the ceaseless craving of the Soul for
union with its Source, through the gratification
of the senses or the possession of material
things?
Law of Brotherhood:
Has their scientific study of the wonderful
coõperation and brotherhood existing among
the cells, tissues and organs of every unit of or-
ganic life led themif for no other reason, as
a matter of efficiencyto follow the same law
and express greater tolerance, coõperation and
brotherhood among themselves as members of
the body of humanity?
The Position of Woman:
Have their studies led them to recognize the
true position of woman as the Priestess of the
Household, the complement and co-worker with
man; the spiritual head of the family, as man
VARIOUS ASPECTS OF WAR 35
is the material; the inspirer and leader in all
spiritual, ethical and moral problems?
Emergency Tests:
In time of emergency, stress and strain, when
there is scarcely time for thought, will the cul-
ture of these nations enable them instinctively to
display more love, compassion, self-sacrifice and
humanitysimply because man is manthan
the less cultured nations would under similar
conditions? Or will they relapse to the level
of the uncultured animtl man who fights solely
for self?
Test of Civilization:
This is the test which their civilization must
stand. And those nations which show most
conclusively that these higher qualities have
been built into their national consciousness must
be the ones to dominate and mzrnifest these
qualities more perfectly in the world's arena
during the coming cycle of the New Age.
Slavonic Nations:
The Slavonic nations, on the other hand, have
not reached the zenith of their evolution, but are
on the upward arc. Hence the more primitive
36 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
qualities of their civilization may be used by the
Great Law as instruments with which to ac-
complish the testing of the more advanced, and
to make possible the inauguration of the New
Era.
Period of Revolt:
When the physical conflict is over a terrible
mental revolt against all forms of restraint,
both in government and religion, will burst
forth.1 It will be a period of extremes, extremes
of individualism; a period when the opposition
against all systematized or organized spiritual
teachings, which is even now manifesting under
various doctrines of religious and so-called
"soul freedom," will find extreme expression.
Agnosticism:
It will be a period both of extreme agnosti-
cism and extreme individualistic teaching, when
any fantastic theory, even without a rational or
philosophic basis, will find a hearing and fol-
lowers. At the same time there will be a strong
feeling upon the part of those who cling to the
old conceptions that it is their duty to humanity
to enforce the old religious ideals.
1Since this was first published (1914) it has already begun its
fulfillment through the action of the Communists, but they will
not be the onli ones.
VARIOUS ASPECTS OF WAR 37
Religious Tolerance:
This will be a great test as to whether reli-
gious intolerance has been grwn1 or there
can be no permanent peace until the minds of a
majority of manldnd have been sufficiently de-
veloped, broadened and spiritualized to banish it
forever.
War of Ideologies:
Hence all churches, orders, movements and
societies professing a spiritual basis will on the
one hand have radicals whose extremes will
bring than into disrepute, while on the other
hand they will have those who will laugh at,
ridicule, discredit, oppose and persecute them.
And the same fire that has manifested as physi-
cal war will again sweep the world as a mental,
spiritual and psychic conflict. And it is always
those nearest and dearest or those companions
who helped us create the Karma, who are used
by the Great Law to test us and adjust the
Karma
Beliefs Tested:
It will be a time when all spiritual movements
will be under a cloud, when spiritually "The
lf later this has been fulfilled by the treatment of the
Jews by the dictators.
38 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
brother ball betray the brother to death, and
the father the son: and children shall rise
against their parents, and shall cause them to
be put to death." Therefore it will be a period
of great testing; a period when every heart who
has realized the reality of the spiritual world
and its forces must be securely grounded in the
philosophy and stand firmly and unshakably
for his or her beliefs, even though to do so in-
volves ridicule, persecution and mental suffer-
ing. For every system of teaching not founded
upon the rock of divine reality and expressed in
terms suitable to the new conditions must pass
away to make room Eor the new.
The Elect:
These conditions wilT be so terrible that they
will last only a very few years, for we are told
that "for the elect's sake those days shall be
shortened.... And except those days should
be shortened, there should be no flesh saved."
The only way that the "elect" can prove them-
selves is by their sincerity, their steadfastness,
their trust and their determination to hold
calmly to their spiritual ideals and to rely abso-
lutely upon their divine, inner guidance, while
VARIOUS ASPECTS OF WAR 39
they pray without ceasing that these days be
shortened.
The Great Teacher:
Words and arguments will be of no avail.
The truth of their beliefs can be proved only
by living them. All such will be like bright and
shining lights in this period of mental and spirit-
ual darkness, or more correctly, blindness. It
will be at the close of this period that the long-
expected Great Teacher, the Avatar, will appear
to reassure distracted humanity of the spiritual
basis of all manifestation and to outline a new
and higher conception of the spiritual life and
its forms of expression.'
Spiritual Flour:
"Today, by means of the horror and carnage
of war, the Mills of the Gods are grinding the
grains of spiritual attiinment, disrupting the
husks of prejudice, the hampering limitations
of country and nation and Race; freeing the in-
dividual grains of tolerance, kindness, compas-
sion, love, self-sacrifice, helpfulness and broth-
erhood from the personal limitations, and grind-
1(The above was released Sept. 15th, 1917.)
40 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
ing them all together into the flour from which,
under the direction of the coming Great
Teacher, the Bread of the New Age can be
made.
Sundering TÅmftjons:
"Not only is this true of those nations which
are participating in the great conflict and bear-
ing its burdens, but it is true in a lesser degree
for all nations. For it needs just such world-
horrors as are transpiring today to break open
the limiting shell of national consciousness and
of separate organization, and awaken into ac-
tivity those Souls who are the germ-centers or
the individual grains from which the Bread of
Life must be made. The storms of carnage
and disaster are but the mill-wheels of the gods
grinding the separate grains into homogeneous
flour which the hand of the enlightened Christ-
man must make into Bread for all the world.
Giant Weeds:
"Remember, the horrors of war are not a part
of the Divine Plan; they are created by man.
By its cruelty and inhumanity to man, by its Un-
brotherliness, intoleranceeven among the en-
lightened. And by its trampling into the dust
VARIOUS ASPECTS OF WAR 41
the small and seemingly insignificant inde-
pendent germ-centers scattered among its mil-
lions, humanity has so hardened the husk of the
Race-seed and so buried its vital germ-cells, in
its wild rush for wealth, power, dominion and
self-aggrandizement, that when 'the sign of the
Son of Man'1 in the heavens and began to
pour out its cleansing and fertilizing power, the
giant weeds of selfishness and antagonism
sprang up and had to be let grow with the grain
until the harvest time. And the weeds are now
being destroyed that the golden grains may be
ground into flour.
Husks of Personality:
'Woe, then, to those who, either individually
or collectively, refuse to be garnered in; who
refuse to place their golden grains of personal
attainment, understanding and ability to help
humanity, in the great Mill of the Gods and
allow the outer husks of personal and limiting
conceptions to be broken open and all their
forces liberated, ground and unselfishly unified
with others to make the nourishing Bread of
Life which the power of the Cosmic Christ can
1The zodiacal sign Aquarius into which our solar system
has just entered. For details see The Message of Aquaria1
Curtiss.
42 ThE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
bless and break and give to them to distribute
to the multitude."
Front The EucIwrift, Part Il Symbol of the Bread (Released
Oct. 7, 1916).
Blood-stained Path:
"Largely due to the materialization of spir-
itual symbols, the onward march of civilization
proceeds along a path so stained with the blood
of man that it is like a red, red river reaching
back intothe beginnings of the Race. The
history of the Christian Churchwhich should
be the Bride of the Christ, arrayed in garments
of spotless whitebegan in bloodshed and ever
since it has been one sickening story of the blood
of man shed by his brother in the name of the
Prince of Peace and the Lord of Love.
The Inquisition:
From the holocausts of the early days in
Rome, through the Inquisition, with its devilish
devices for adding torture to the shedding of
blood, through the exploitation of less powerful
peoples by the more powerful in the name of
Christianity, down to the present day when half
the world is calling upon the same God for the
VARIOUS ASPECTS OF WAR 43
blood of its fellow-men, through all this the
justification of blood sacrifice has held sway.
America's Guilt:
"Even our own United States, the so-called
land of freedom, liberty and justice, was
founded in bloodshedwith certaii shining
exceptions such as the land purchased by Wil-
liam Penn, and the missions founded along the
Pacific coast by the Franciscan fathers. When
driven from the Old World by bloody persecu-
tions in the name of religion, Christianity
planted its standards in this New World by the
same methods. And later on these same meth-
ods were continued in the burning of witches,
and in the treatment of the slaves and the In-
dians.
America's Karma:
"As the days of reckoning and readjustment
come, the days foretold by Jesus when we
would see the sign Aquarius (Sign of the Son
of Man) ruling in the heavens, as the celestial
Waterbearer pours out in greater abundance
the waters of lifethe mother-aspect of the
Cosmic Life-forceneed we be surprised that
the harvest in the Old World is one of blood-
44 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
shed? Nor need we of America think that we
can escape our ultimate baptism of blood during
this great cyclic readjustment; for the Great
Law will not hold us guiltless.
Wrong Thinking:
"Only by reaping the karmic resultnot so
much of the deeds of the flesh as of the wrong
thinking, the false teaching and the materiali-
zation of the symbols of the "new testament"
can humanity learn to look beneath the surface,
beneath the literal meaning of symbols and
words and enter into the spirit of that which
is intended.
Karma Is Readjustment:
"Karma is not so much reaping the results of
past acts as it is the readjustment of the effects
of wrong thinking. It is not "an eye for an eye
and a tooth for a tooth," but the equalization of
conditions and the bringing about of exact jus-
tice. It is largely the suffering which logically
results from wrong thinking, that brings to the
world, as to the individual, an awakening in
which it refuses to follow tradition and prece-
dent when they no longer coincide with its en-
lightened conceptions of that which is best.
VARIOUS ASPECTS OF WAR 45
Wrong Interpretation:
"We of the New Day desire to obey the words
of Jesus: 'Be ye therefore perfect,' and yet,
as we look back over history we see that if the
teaching that mankind can be saved only
through a blood sacrifice has brought the world
to such a pass, something must be radically
wrong. And yet since the same symbols are
found in all other religions and are world old,
the source of the wrong must be sought not in
the symbols themselves but in the orthodox and
nateriaIised interpretation of them.
War a Blood-sacrifice:
"For the world today is thoroughly convinced
that war, which is but the ultimate of blood
sacrifice, does not produce justice, does not
bring perfection, does not tend to make all men
brethren or all peoples children of the one loving
Father who calls them to His table and breaks
the Bread and passes the Cup and calls upon
them to eat and drink unto everlasting life."
From The Eucha,ist, Symbol of the Blood (Released Nov.
7, 1916).
Karma in the Bible:
"Ever since the childhood of the Race, man
has been disobedient to his Divine Guidance:
46 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
has been ambitious, selfish, cruel and blood-
thirsty. Yet in spite of this, civilization has
steadily advanced in a cyclic and spiral fashion.
This has been accomplished through the Great
Law constantly working with man in its seven-
fold manner, always trying to inspire him with
higher ideals, always utilizing for his learning,
through the Law as Karma, the suffering he
brings upon himself. This Law is enunciated in
the Bible in the words: 'Whatsoever a man
sow, that shall he also reap.. . . One jot or
one tittle shall in nowise pass from the law, till
all be fulfilled.. .. Inasmuch as ye have done
it unto one of the least of these my brethren,
ye have done it unto me.'
Oppression Forbidden:
"Through this law, which is divine Justice,
man is taught through actual experience that he
cannot love God and hate his brother; that he
cannot truly worship God while he oppresses
even the least of the ignorant little ones who
are his brethren in Christ, without in some life,
either now or in the future, himself suffering
from injustice, hatred and oppression, until
Saturn has gathered all the crop of unbrotherli-
VARIOUS ASPECTS OF WAR 47
ness his heart has brought forth. And as with
individuals, so with nations.
Divine Fruition:
"And after the reaping, when the golden
grains have been gathered by the Four Winds
from all the fields of earththose who have
come 'out of great tribulafion' and whose gar-
ments have been made white 'in the blood of the
Lamb'then the mighty downpouring of the
Water of Life will just as surely bring to frui-
tion the seeds of man's divine nature as it al-
ready has the lower; those spiritual seeds which,
'sown in corruption; it is raised in incorruption;
it is sown in dishonor; it is raised in glory: it
is sown in weakness; it is raised in power: it is
sown in a natural body; it is raised in a spiritual
body.' For the world this new spiritual body
will be the Aquarian Age, and for each indi-
vidual a new conception of love, light, power and
life; the actual unfolding of the Christ-
consciousness and a manifestation of its power
in the life.
Saturn the Reaper:
"But first there must come the realization
that because Saturn must reap the tares you
48 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
have sown he is not to be thought of as evil,
but as one of the Sons of God in divine
love and compassion clears the ground that
you may bring forth the Christ-seed and reap
your spiritual harvest.
Mercury and Venus:
And just as Saturn is an aspect of God, so
also is Mercury, he who takes your every aspi-
ration godward, your every effort toward vic-
tory and your every realization to the very
throne of God. Then, through the intercession
of this winged messenger, Venus or Divine
Love enters and builds her nest in your heart
and brings forth her young. As you thus be-
come a real Aquarian, you will at last realize
that because you have loved much, much has
been forgiven."
From The Sign Aquarius, The New Age (Released Jan.
7, 1917).
Spiritual Grain:
"The whole world is today a great testing
ground for a similar ingathering. It is the
field and humanity is the grain. The angels
are the reapers and the harvest time is now at
hand. Out of all the grains that grow in the
1See Job. i. 6.
VARIOUS ASPECTS OF WAR 49
fields of earth, comparatively few are fitted
and ready to be made into the Bread of Eternal
Life. But it is just as possible, through the
scientific application of the laws of growth, to
double and treble the nutritive power of the
spiritual grain as it is of the physical grain.
By spreading the truths of man's spiritual herit-
age and the laws of his spiritual growth, man-
kind can consciously multiply the quantity,
improve the quality and hasten the ripening of
the spiritual grain.
Workers Needed:
"While the angels are the reapers, they need
loving Souls on earth who are eager, devoted,
trained and ready to go out into the fields and
vineyards and bring the golden sheaves into the
granary of the Lord. We, individually and
collectively, who can recognize the times in
which we live and the great events foreshad-
owed in the heavens, must work with all our
hearts and minds and powers toward spreading
the news of the coming of the New Jerusalem.
You Are Needed:
'We must encourage, cheer, uplift and teach
all who will listen to the call of the Christ
50 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
that they may be gathered into the New Jerusa-
1cm. There is no place for drones. For once
we have vowed allegiance to the Christ and His
work; the great Law of the Universe will force
us to fulfil our vows or pay the penalty. Thus
we must become either helpers and redeemers
of mankind or stumbling blocks in its path. If
we refuse to take a firm stand on the positive
side of good, we are swept into the negative
current.
The New Jerusalem:
"The New Jerusalem has existed through-
out eternity as a perfect and ideal state of
humanity, but it has only existed in the higher
realms, and only in our Higher Selves have we
been able to dwell in its mansions. If it is to
become a reality upon the physical plane its
manifestation must be accomplished by the
united efforts of all sincere and devoted follow-
ers of the Christ who are awakened to this
possibility. We must begin with ourselves.
The New Jerusalem can manifest within us,
but we must permit the King of Righteousness
not only to enter into His tabernacle, but dwell
therein. Our hearts and minds and bodies
VARIOUS ASPECTS OF WAR 51
must literally be made holy temples, sanctuaries
of the Most High.
Sacred Sanctuaries:
"The first step then in this great coming of
the Lord is to prepare our tabernacles. It is
useless to look forward to the founding of an
ideal city or center of civilization in some fa-
vored spot on earth, where the Gods or the god-.
powers shall incarnate in a perfected manhood
and womanhood, where the Great Ones shall
teach mankind face to face and establish the
reign of love and justice unless we begin the
preparation for such manifestations in our own
hearts and minds and lives. For unless we can
build within ourselves sacred sanctuaries in
which the god-powers can dwell and manifest
and enable us to live in love and fellowship with
our brothers and sisters, how can we expect to
associate with the Great Ones?"
From The New Jerusalem (Released April 7 1913).
Kanna:
Extract from a letter to a student of the
Order of Christian Mystics:
"In reply to your question as to the Lords of
52 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
Karma, the winds and the Allies, we are directed
to say that Karma always includes several
kinds: personal, sectional (environmental), na-
tional, racial and world karma. It is like a
cord made up of several strands, each strand be-
ing made up of innumerable threads.
World Karma:
World kanna necessarily affects all human-
ity through the seasonal changes, through
world disasters, wars, etc., sufficiently great to
affect alL This general world karma is modi-
fied in different regions by each region's na-
tional karma, sectional climatic changes, storms,
disasters, etc., and still further by the personal
karma of its inhabitants.
National Karma:
Thus, national kanna is a determining factor
in the national spirit, national environment,
national reactions, etc., and determines to what
extent the nation shall participate in the world
karma.
Personal Karma:
The personal karma gives the individual his
place and determines his reaction to the national
VARIOUS ASPECTS OF WAR 53
karma, namely, to what extent he personally
shall participate in it; for instance1 whether he
willbeIraftedinsuchtimesasthese1andwhere
he will be assigned when drafted, whether at
the front or somewhere in the rear.
The Four Winds:
The mystical winds referred to in our lesson
on Th Four Winds.1 are one of the currents of
force used by the great Lords of Karma to bring
about on earth the conditions which will make
the working out of these various lines of karma
possible, the physical winds l)eing used as one
agency or instrument to bring this.to pass.
Persons Involved:
Thus, when a great catastrophe occurs such
as an earthquake, the holocaust at Halifax, the
failure of crops, etc., it is the result, first, of
world karma, inasmuch as the world currents
there find a focal point for expression, yet all
the other lines of karma must also operate in
and through it, thus modifying it. No one
whose personal karma did not call for such an
experience would be present at those points at
the time, or if present would have what might
1See chapter "The Four Winds" in The Message of Aquaria,
Curth 12&
54 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
seem to be a miraculous escape such as are re-
corded in every great catastrophe.
Good from Evil:
Yet the karma of even those who passed
through the catastrophe may not have been pre-
ponderatingly bad, for in many cases only such
a crushing blow could stir their hearts and
awaken them out of their selfishness and call
forth and develop their human sympathy and
compassion for others, which up to that time
may have been dormant or at least unexpressed.
If one could see such disasters from the higher
planes he would see many more bright and
golden threads than black ones.
The North Wind:
As to the storms and winds fighting against
the interests of the Allies through disturbance
to their shipping, depots, movement of troops,
etc., again we have to consider world, national
and regional karma. The mystical North
Wind is the one given power in these last days
to sweep away old conditions and make ready
for the new, just as the physical North wind
does with the vegetation of the past season.
If national and regional karma brings the
VARIOUS ASPECT'S OF WAR 55
Allies into its path in a region where it is ful-
filling its appointed work, the most that can be
done is to modify its intensity in accordance
with the good karma present in the national,
environmental and" personal karma of those
in its path, where under normal conditions they
were not supposed to be. It is much as though a
mouse ran out of its hole directly in front of
the broom with which the housemaid was clean-
ing the room, although she had no intention of
hurting the mouse or even disturbing it.
Meager Reports:
It is scarcely possible for the mind of the
average man untrained in the metaphysics of
the manifestation of the Great Law to under-
stand why the Germans, who are giving expres-
sion to its destructive aspect, seem not to suffer
from like disasters of nature or do not have to
contend against them to the same extent. The
most obvious reason is that full reports of the
disasters from which they suffer do not reach
our ears.
Chastening:
But as to the occultism of it, if you take a
broader and higher and wider view and realize
56 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
the inner meaning of the text, "Whom the
Lord loveth He chasteneth, and scourgeth every
son whom he receiveth. If ye endure chasten-
ing God dealeth with you as sons;. . . but if
ye be without chastisement,.. . then ye are
bastards and not sons," you will begin to under-
stand the reasons.
The Ally's Test:
In other words, the Allies as nations have
reached a point where they are ready to pass
the great and final test of the chastisement of
sonship which, for all who "can endure to the
end," will mark a new. day in the manifestation
of universal brotherhood.
Injustice:
He who tolerates injustice is creating in-
justice within himself. And the more long-
suffering either a nation or an individual is
under injustice, the more they dwell upon and
create it. Hence when the revolt, or time of
expression comes, they will express the very
injustices and cruelties upon which they have
so long brooded."
CHAPTER V
PERMANENT PEACE, GOD'S PLAN'
"And he shall judge among ninny people, and
rebuke strong nations afar; and they shall beat
their swords into plowshares, and their spears into
pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword
against nation, neither shall they learn war any
more." JiwaJi, iv, 3-4.
God's Plan:
All things come into outer manifestation
from that which is within.2 To achieve Perma-
nent Peace in the world we must teach the
nations of the world that Permanent Peace is
God's plan for the world and man's ultimate
destiny, hence it is bound to come. But since
man has free-will to follow his own desires it is
possible to bring about peace quicldy or to push
it back and go on for ages suffering the misery
of periodic wars.
1Rdl July 7th, 191S.
TFor details see Why Are We Here? Curtiss.
£7
58 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
See the Vision:
To begin in earnest to work for Permanent
Peace we must first believe in and reach up to
the beatific vision so graphically described by
the prophets Isaiah and Micah, then begin with-
in our own hearts and lives to manifest it. For
only as we bring our minds and lives into har-
mony with God's plan can we manifest mental
and bodily harmony here on earth. And there
can be no peace and harmony among nations
except as an expression of peace and harmony
within the individuals of the nations.
The Divine Plan:
Therefore the individual Permanent Peace
means first, the recognition of the Divine Plan;
a realization that nineteen hundred years ago
when the heavens opened and in the darkness
of hnmatiity's mental night the angels appeared
to the simple shepherds and declared: "Peace
on earth, good will toward man," it was not a
mere travesty, a utopian dream never to be
materialized. It was the announcement of one
more important step toward the fulfilment of the
same Divine Plan announced by the prophets of
PEACE, GOD'S PLAN 59
old, and which through all the ages has slowly
but surely been descending and taking form on
earth, because it already existed in heaven.
Man's Mistake:
The mistake mankind has made is in thinldng
that the angels were proclaiming its full and
perfect accomplishment at that time, when even
yet it has not come to pass. This is because the
race is still manifesting in its fifth day-period,
and we are told that man must labor through
six full days,' and. that only on the seventh day
can he rest in the ultimate fulfilment.
Periods Needed:
Just as it required six long periods to create
the physical earth on which man's physical ex-
pression could dwell and manifest to perfection,
so must it take six periods or "days of labor"
to create man's mental and spiritual dwelling
place in which to unfold and fulfil his mental
and spiritual destiny. For this Permanent
Peace is a prime necessity. Without it he can-
not find his rest on the seventh day or survey
his creations and say that they are good.
'For details see Tue Key to tile UKiverse, Cuiths 201.
60 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
War a Shock:
If this world war today is a shock to our
ideals of peace, harmony and righteousness,
think of the shock to the faith of the shepherds
when Herod made his bloody war upon the
innocent babes so soon after the announcement
of the angelic hosts; also when Jesus himself,
whom they expected to bring peace and good
will to all the world and restore the kingdom of
Israel, was led away to be crucified and His
followers, scattered, not one among them stand-
ingbyHimtotheend!
Hearts Must Respond:
Yet in spite of all these seeming contradic-
tions and the long delay in the coming of the
promised peace, the angels' song was not a
mistake. Peace had already been born in the
heaven world, hence must inevitably descend to
earth in the fulness of time, for it is God's plan
for this world. It will descend into manifesta-
tion on earth just as soon as the hearts of
humanity respond to it and give it lodgment in
sufficient numbers to express it, even though
humanity has been struggling toward it for
nineteen hundred years with seemingly little
progress.
PEACE, GOD'S PLAN 61
The Angels' Song:
Just as the birth of the Christ must take place
in each heart crc the fulness of the Christ can
reign on earth, so must the angels' song which
announced that birth. be sung in every heart.
Every Soul must respond and prepare the con-
ditions in his or her own heart and life crc we
can hope for Permanent Peace among the na-
tions of the earth.
Banish Ignorance:
Only as we deal with the world, just as we
deal with our own lives, can we attain Perma-
nent Peace. As long as darkness, ignorance and
superstition reign in the minds of a majority of
mankind, the mind of the world cannot be at
peace.
Power of Thought:
Yet such is the creative power of thought
that many minds at peace and thinking peace
for all mankind, including their own personal
enemies, will spread the thought to the minds
of others and make it contagious so that crc
we know it war will be done with forever. Only
then will we see the swords of the nations turned
into plowshares, and peaceful pursuits taldng
62 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
the place of war. But as long as a majority of
mankind believe that wealth, commerce, power
and worldly position are the things to be striven
for above all else, there can be no Permanent
Peace.
Role of Wealth and Power:
While wealth, commerce, power, etc., are
inevitable and necessary for a nation's pros-
perity, they should be the results or by-products
of the nation's attainments, rather than the
ideals for which it strives. Hence while a na-
tion holds for its ideals such sentiments as,
"Let him take who has the power. Let him hold
who can," or "To the victor belongs the spoils,"
etc., and forgets that the angels' song can never
be fulfilled until a majority of manldnd obeys
the first part of that song, namely, "Glory to
God in the highest," peace on earth and the good
will toward tninlcind, peace cannot be perina-
nent.
Cease Resistance:
For the underlying mysticism of true peace is
oneness of purpose with the Divine Plan, the
ceasing of the resistance of man to the guidance
of the Divine; a realization that that which is
PEACE, GOD'S PLAN 63
created by man's desire and fructified by his
power of thought is the thing which will mcvi-
tably manifest in the outer life, both of the
individual and the race.
The Father's Will:
From the very dawn of creation when God
said: "Let there be light" and there was light,
the great war of the darkness against respond-
ing to the Light; of matter resisting Spirit; man
resisting the call of the Divine, has been going
on. And all war on the physical plane is but
the outer manifestation of this mystical inner
warfare which is forever being waged in the
invisible side of life. And it will continue to be
waged until man learns to do the will of the
Father-in-heaven, on earth, with as little fric-
tion and resistance as it is done in heaven.
Recògnize Conditions:
Like all malignant diseases, that which is in
the blood or in the life-stream must come forth
into expression in the body ere it can be recog-
nized, healed and fully eradicated. And when
it breaks out or comes to a definite head it has
already taken the first step toward its cure and
eradication from the system.
64 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
The World Disease:
The world today has broken out with a most
malignant disease, i. e., extreme nationalism
(national selfishness), pride and lust for power
and supremacy. This disease has been in the
blood of humanity in a chronic form for ages,
and although it has broken out periodically
again and again in various wars and in the hor-
rors of "man's inhumanity to man," yet it has
never been eradicated from the system, because
heretofore mankind has never attacked its cause,
but has dealt merely with its symptoms.
Seek for the Cure:
The present war, however, has broken out
with such terrible malignity that it has aroused
the world as never before to the necessity for a
permanent cure, no matter what the cost. May
we never cease to seek for the cure until it is
found!
World Suffering:
Hence in every nation and country we find
serious efforts being made to diagnose the dis-
ease, to seek out its hidden causes and apply the
remedy. No more temporizing with symptoms
will suffice. It must be a radical cure. For the
PEACE, GOD'S PLAN 65
world today is realizing as never before, the uni-
versal brotherhood of races, hence that, like
parts of the human body, no one nation can
be desolated by war and suffer without the
whole human family's suffering with it.
Operation Needed:
Even those who live in a neutral country can-
not hope wholly to escape it, for it is a festering
ulcer on the body of humanity and must affect
the whole organism. And since the men of the
race are occupied in the surgical operation of
removing the ulcer with their swords, it is high
time that the women of the race not only sup-
port them in their efforts but take up the work
of permanent cure, just as the women of Europe
are nursing and bringing about the permanent
cure of the individual bodies of the wounded.
Woman's Mission:
This then is woman's mission. First, to see
the vision of the ideal to be attained and the
reason for its failure to manifest in the past;
and second, fearlessly and devotedly with no
thought of the stupendousness of the task, to
undertake to bring sanity to the mind and health
to the body of humanity as a whole.
66 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
Michael vs. the Dragon:
The Bible tells us that there was war in
heaven. "Michael and his angels fought
against the dragon; and the dragon fought and
his angels, and prevailed not; neither was their
place found any more in heaven." This has
been confused in the minds of many with the
descent of Lucifer (meaning "the shining one")
the Light Bearer, because of the passages, "I
beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven,"
and "How are thou fallen from heaven, 0
Lucifer, son of the morning!" but the mean-
ings of the two allegories are quite different.
War in Heaven:
The war in heaven, as we have already said,
was the war between Spirit and matter in the
higher realms, the word heaven being used here
to indicate the realms of the higher astral world.
Michael is the Angel of the Sun from which
proceeds the true spiritual creative force which
we call the Christ-principle.
Dragon's Symbol:
The dragon typifies the perverted and de-
graded creative force which man has relegated
and confined to its expression through the phys-
PEACE, GOD'S PLAN 67
ical creative centers, by whose perversion and
degradation he has brought forth all the evil
that manifests on earth today.
The Tester:
The Angel who fell from heaven, like the
fearful and devastating force of lightning, is
Saturn, the great Tester and Initiator. Light-
ning is the result of the bursting forth of the
electrical potential stored up in a thunder-cloud
and as we have said elsewhere1 all storms are
the result of man's inharmony. Hence light-
ning, like Saturn, is both the tester and read-
juster or the bringer to earth of the stored-np
inharinoily resulting from man's disobedience
and, resistance to the Divine Law.
The Adversary:
Yet Saturn is neither man's enemy nor the
devil, as he is so often miscalled, but is the ad-
versary in the sense of forcing man to a realiza-
tion of his disobedience and precipitating the
karinic results upon him. Yet, like lightning,
this precipitation is the only way to dissipate
the old Karma and purify the atmosphere of
the Soul.
I5 The Voice of his. Curtiss 116.
68 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
Lucifer:
On the other hand, Lucifer, Son of the Morn-
ing, is the symbol of the necessary descent of
the Christ-principle to earth that it may clothe
itself in matter and by its manifestation in that
dense expression uplift, spiritualize and re-
deem matter.
Two Allegories:
In these two allegories we have not only the
explanation of the war in heaven, but of every
war that has ever raged on earth or within the
heart of man, whether of actual slaughter and
bloodshed, mental struggle and warfare or any
other form of man's inharmony which wars
against God's perfect Plan of Creation, i. e.,
Perfect Peace.
The Pacifists:
For remember that God's plan is Permanent
Peace, but not the "peace at any price" of the
pacifists, for we see that the Divine Law is that
there can be Permanent Peace only when all
antagonism and inharmony has been trans-
muted into harmony. Until this has taken place
we may cry "Peace! Peace I" eternally, but there
can be no peace.
PEACE, GOD'S PLAN 69
Saturn's Pall:
Therefore while Saturn "fell" to earth in
seeming rebellion, in reality he was the Light
Bearer, the lightning which pierced the con-
tented darkness of earth conditions and made
the expression of the Light in that darkness.
Think of it! an Archangel from heaven giving
up the bliss and happiness of his spiritual estate
that he might dispel the clouds of ignorance and
bring to mankind the spiritual Light! just as a
lightning stroke breaks up the storm clouds
surcharged with electrical energy and brings to
earth the purifying and energizing ozone of
the upper strata of the air.
The Angel of Peace:
The mighty struggle in Europe today seems
to many of you but another Angel fallen from
your heaven world, namely the Angel of Civili-
zation and of your higher ideals and Christ-
principles. Yet back of this fall, as of the first
Angel, those of you who are patiently watching
on the heights of the mountainside, keeping
guard over the flocks of your thoughts and
desires through this dark night, and who are
straining your mental eyes into the black dark-
70 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
ness of carnage, you will see that the Angel is in
reality the Angel of Permanent Peace.
Civilization Requires Harmony:
You will see that civilization could never fer-
inanently endure until this Angel of Peace had
penetrated into the clouds of inharmony and
unbrotherliness which hung over humanity and
shut out the Light of the Spiritual Sun, and
like a lightning stroke precipitated them as this
great cloudburst of war. Only thus could the
blackest night the world has ever seen respond
to the same clarion cry, "Glory to God in the
highest, ye sons of men. For only thus can
there be peace on earth and good will toward
men."
Woman's Initiative:
Is man too busy with war to listen? Must
liegoonblindlykillingandbeingkilled? Then
it is woman who must be the watcher on the
mountain side to proclaim the vision. It must be
the true womanhood of the moe which must
open a path through the dense atmosphere of
carnage, that through it the Angel hosts can
enter.
PEACE, GOD'S PLAN 71
Tm$ on Mi.nifestation:
It must be true womanhood who through the
din of battle must listen for the Song of Perma-
nent Peace, and hearing it, with the faith and
courage of her womanhood, prepare for and in-
sist upon its manifestation.
The Bringer-forth:
Only woman is equal to the occasion, for
woman's great gift is the power to bring forth.
And only through the power of enlightened
womanhood can the seeds being sown in this
terrible night of war bring forth the fruits of
Permanent Peace to the world, which is destined
to follow the dark night of war.
Inculcate Peace:
To accomplish this the women of the world
should unite. There is work for all. Not only
those who can speak for peace, but every mother
can radiate and incukate peace and the peace
ideal in the home, no matter to what country
she may give her allegiance.
Effect on Children:
At this time when the mental atmosphere of
the world is infected with antagonism and
72 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
hatred, there is a tendency to let trifles disturb
us, and we find it harder than usual to control
our tempers. And since the sensitive nature
of the child is quick to respond to the currents
of thought-force surrounding it, there is an in-
creased tendency-toward quarrelsomeness. The
scientists tell us that even the ants, instead of
making war for food or nest as formerly, now
make war wantonly for the lust of fighting.
Therefore each person should be especially
watchful to maintain peace within himself and
in the household during these trying days.
Ways of Helping:
There are many ways of helping to bring
about Permanent Peace, and the promise of the
Angels' song can be fulfilled every day, and the
women can hasten its fulfilment in the world,
by determining to live at peace within and with
their neighbors, and doing some definite work
for the spread of the idea of Permanent Peace.
The Babe Within:
The Babe whose birth was announced to man-
kind by the angelic chorus still lives in the
sanctuary of each heart. But let us as a race
determinedly unwind the swaddling clothes that
PEACE, GOD'S PLAN 73
hide Him from our sight and no longer keep
Him in the manger where the animal desires go
to feed! Let us proclaim Him at the right hand
of God to whom we give "Glory in the highest !"
Only so can the prophecy be wholly fulfilled in
humanity.
Mn's Destiny:
Therefore our work for Permanent Peace on
earth must be carried on along the lines of God's
Plan. We do not have to think out a plan of
our own or seek for something new which we
fear may be so utopian that it cannot be accom-
plished. Instead we must take courage and be
supremely confident, for Permanent Peace is
the destiny of mankind and cannot fail zdti-
inately to materialize. Yet since man is God's
vice-regent on earth he can do much to hasten
the day of the ultimate Permanent Peace, just
as in the ages past he has done much to retard
its minifestation.
The Heavens Open:
Even as we stand appalled at the devastation
and ruin of this storm of war, let us lift our
thoughts to God, see the heavens open and
glimpse the Divine Plan. Though we be sore
74 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
afraid, we will behold a multitude of the
heavenly host and hear amidst the thunders of
war the angelic voices singing, "Glory to God
in the highest, and on earth peace and good will
toward min"
A New Day Coining:
Thus will we realize that this terrible war is
but another step toward the fulfihnent of a new
day for hnminity, the great sixth day, and that
on the morrow we shall abide forever in God's
Permanent Peace.
CUAPTER VI
"ThE WAR" OR THE PRINCIPLE OF
RESISTANCE
"It is only by the attractive force of the contrasts
that the two oppositesSpirit and Mattercan
be cemented together on Earth, and, smelted in the
fire of self-conscious experience and suffering, find
themselves wedded in Eternity. This will reveal
the meaning of many hitherto incomprehensible
allegories, foolishly called 'fables."
The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, voL ii, 108.
As Above, So Below:
It is an axiom in our Cosmic Soul Science
that there can be no manifestation without dual-
ity, no shadow without its Reality. Accord-
ing to our cosmic philosophy everything that
manifests descends from above, its expression
on earth being but the shadow or reflection of a
Reality in the higher realms. "St. Paul...
called our World, 'the enigmatical mirror of
pure truth,' and St. Gregory of Nazianzen cor-
roborated Hermes by stating that: 'Things
visible are but the shadow and delineation of
76 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
things that we cannot see.'... 'All that is on
earth, saith the Lord (Ormazd), ic the shadow
of something that is in the superior spheres.'...
It is an eternal combination, and images are re.
peated from the higher rung of the Ladder of
Being down to the lower. . . the lower 'mir-
ror' disfiguring the image of the superior 'mir-
ror.'
War a Shadow:
The Zohar also holds strongly to the idea that
everything manifested in the Universe is the
shadow of the Eternal Light or Deity, separated
by the prism of Matter into its seven rays, each
with its dual principle of light and shadow.
Of what, then, is war on earth the shadow?
Equilibrium Disturbed:
In the beginning of the universe, the first
emanation from the Absolute coming into math-
festation necessarily had its positive and nega-
tive aspects or poles, Spirit and Substance.
From the very dawn of the going forth of the
Manifested from out the bosom of the Unmani-
fested, the state of perfect equilibrium was dis-
turbed and the mighty urge toward union and
1The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky voL ii. 280.
"THE WAR,"RESISTANCE 77
a restoration of the primordial equilibrium came
into manifestation.
Cause of "The War:"
It is this urge toward the restoration of the
Projected to its Source; the call of the Spirit to
Matter; the Father to the Son; the Heavenly
Man to the himin; the Higher Self to the lower
personality; that is the cause btck of all war,
all desire, hence back of all evolution. For
only in a union with its Cause can the Cyde
of Necessity be ended, the desire be satisfied
and become one with the Will of the Father,
"the War" ended, and the evolution be corn-
pleted.
Principle of Resistance:
But the impelling Force which caused the
outgoing or downward arc of projection into
Manifestation naturally resists the Indrawing
power or upward arc of Reali,ition which is
necessary to complete the At-one-ment. This
resistance to the uplifting, dematerializing and
indrawing force constitutes and is the basic
principle back of all reflections, frictions, con-
flicts or phases of "the War."
78 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
Spirit Descends:
In the physical world this resistance is ex-
pressed as the war between Spirit and Matter;
the resistance due to the density and inertia of
Matter to the unfoldment and expression of the
Spirit With the descent of the Light, Spirit
clothed itself in Matter, not only that it might
have expression but that it might evolve up
through matter and by so doing spiritualize it
and return it to its primordial state.
Lack of Response:
It is the inability of the lower vibrations of
Matter to respond to the higher vibrations of
Spirit that causes the resistance until, through
the subliming and etherializing process which
results from the friction thus engendered, Mat-
ter becomes finer and more plastic and thus more
responsive to the expressions of Spirit
Overcoming Resistance:
Hence in all cosinogonies, "There were
many Wars,' all referring to the struggles of
adjustment, spiritual, cosmical and astronomi-
cal, but chiefly to the mysteries of the evolution
of man, as he is now."1 The point we wish to
1The Secret Doctrine Blavatsky. . 215.
"THE WAR,"RESISTANCE 79
emphasize is that these types of "the war" are all
necessary factors in the overcoming of resist-
ance and in the adjustment which must occur
ere the close of any and every major cycle.
Cosmic War:
There are accounts of three distinct Wars
to be traced in almost every cosmogony. The
first War happened in the night of time, be-
tween the Gods and the (A)-suras, and lasted
for a period of one Divine Year."1 Thus «the
War" began with the "War in Heaven" or the
resistance of certain expressions of the God-
head to carrying out the Divine Will; again, the
resistance of the lower to the higher WilL This
is far more than merely an expression of the
Sun-Myth or the personification of the forces of
nature, the war between Light and Darkness:
The Sun Myth:
For the various versions of the Sun-Myth2
are but allegories expressing the cosmic prin-
ciple of the resistance of Matter to the expres-
sion of Spirit, whether it be represented by the
Christian Michael, the Angel of the Sun, slay-
1IbÅd.. i, 451. A Divine Year is 360 times a Day of Brahni
(4.320,000,000 years).
g See lesson The Universal Solar Myth, Curtiss
80 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
ing the Apocalyptic Dragon; Horus, the Egyp-
tian Sun-god, slaying Typhon, the Dragon
Apophis; Hercules strangling the Python in his
cradle, or Phoibos-Apollo, the Greek Helios,
the Sun, 'the Light and Life of the World'
who at the moment of his birth asks for
his bow to kill Python, the Demon Dragon.2
The Eternal Struggle:
They all symbolize the eternal struggle for
light, progress and evolution which constitutes
the war between the Light of Wisdom and the
Darkness of Ignorance; between unselfishness
and selfishness; between the good of the whole
and the ambitions of the few; between civiliza-
tion and barbarism; between the Angel of Peace
and the Dragon of Material Force embodied in
Militarism; between Right and Might, etc.
Struggles for Control:
The second great phase of «the War," as re-
flected in humanity, occurred after the creation
of man, when the resistance set up by the de-
sires of the lower animal man to the Will of the
Higher was exemplified in the struggle which
took place between the Lunar and Solar Fathers.
The Secret Doctrine Blavatski ii. 400.
"THE WAR,"RESISTANCE 81
Creation of Man:
Cosmic philosophy teaches that the physical
body or animal man was projected as a
"shadow" or was "created" by the Hierarchy of
the Lunar Fathers.1 But the "man" so created
was but a human animal without intellect or the
spark of self-consciousness; he had not yet be-
come "a living soul." As soon as the human
animal had been perfected, the Hierarchy of the
Solar Fatherscalled "Sons of Mind"pro-
jected into that animal form a "Ray" of them-
selves which became the Divine Spark, the in-
dividual, immortal Spiritual Ego, or, as the
Bible puts it, they: "Breathed into his nostrils
the Breath of Life (breath always being a sym-
bol of Spirit); and (only then) man became a
living (immortal) Soul."3
Physical Man a Product:
Man was thus the product of two distinct
lines of creative forces, a semiterrestrial and a
Divine; jut as a mother brings forth (creates)
the terrestrial body of her child, yet has nothing
to do with making it "a living Soul."
1For The Or gui of Man,see OiapterXVll, in The Voice of
Isis, Curtiss.
2Genesic. ii. 7.
82 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
The Second Phase:
With the incarnating of the Spirit and the
lighting of the spark of self-consciousness in
man this second phase of "the War" began, 1. e..,
the effort of the spiritual Solar Fathers, through
the incarnated Ray of Spirit or the Real Man,
to control and guide the rnimil man, to the end
that he might willingly respond to the higher
law or Divine WIlL
Instinct vs. Free-will:
The control of the Lunar Fathers had been
through instinctand did not admit of the power
of choice, while the control of the Solar Fathers
was and is attained through the free-will choice
of man, even though through his refusal to
choose the higher guidance he creates the suffer-
ing by which he learns the unwisdoin of that
choice. The struggle was brought about, there-
fore, by the resistance offered by the animal in-
stincts and the desires of the senses to volun-
tarily submitting to the uplifting and spiritual-
izing control of the Divine Will of the Real
Man or Father-in-heaven.
Resistance of Intellect:
In the mental world "the War" manifests as
the resistance of the Intellect to the promptings
"THE WAR,"RESISTANCE 83
of Intuition; the temporary refusal of the Head
to obey the promptings of the Heart. Until the
self-conscious stage of man was reached the
resistance was more or less passive or the re-
sistance of inertia, but with the dawn of free-
will and the power of choice the resistance be-
came active and the animal element of antago-
nism was added to the inertia.
St. Paul's Recognition:
The light of self-consciousness and the de-
velopment of the Intellect were the direct result
of the incarnating Spirit's gradually evolving
an adequate instrument by means of which it
could relate itself in consciousness to the condi-
tions of material manifestation. Then it could
express itself in such conditions, as soon as the
spark of Divine Mind burst into the flame of
self-consciousness. The human animal thus
awakened to itselfbut as yet unable to recog-
nize its Divine Parentplaced Intellect upon
the throne as the source of its highest guidance.
Self-consciousness:
St. Paul refers to this phase of nthe War"
when he says: 'When I would do good (L e.,
follow the Intuitions from the Higher Self),
84 ThE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
behold evil (or the desires of the lower man)
is present with me." It is "the War" manifest-
ing between Higher and Lower Manas or the
resistance of the human or intellectual con-
sciousness to the illumination and guidance of
the Divine.
A Willing Servant:
And this phase of "the War" will continue in
man until, by the subliming and spiritualizing
process due to the friction (suffering) engen-
dered, the Intellect will admit that it is but the
creature and instrument; until it becomes the
willing servant of the Real Man or Higher Self,
and translates the Inspiration of the Spirit into
terms of human consciousness which shall en-
able the human personality consciously to fol-
low the Divine Guidance.
Mfln1 the Arbitrator:
Of all creatures man alone has within him
both the Higher Mindthe embodied Ray from
the Divine Mindand also the Lower Mind
which is synthetized by the animal soul and has
its highest expression through Intellect. Hence
man is the Arbitrator, for he can reach up and
comprehend God and also reach down into the
"THE WAR,"RESISTANCE 85
animal consciousness and comprehend the re-
sistance of matter and the views and arguments
of the Lower Mind.
Man's Curses:
By the creative power of his thought he leaves
the impress of his stage of evolution upon all
the lower ldngdoms. For just as "the War" in
heaven was reflected in man, so has man re-
flected upon the lower ldngdoms "the War" that
is going on within himself. So it is through
man, who has stamped the impress of his mi-
perfectionsthe incomplete stage of his spir-
itual unfoldmentupon animal, vegetable and
mineral as antagonism, hatred, disease and
death, that the curse has been fulfilled: "Cursed
is the ground for thy sake, . . . thorns also
and thistles shall it bring forth to thee;.. . in
the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till
thou return unto the ground (his Source); for
out of it wast thou taken; for dust thou art and
unto dust shalt thou return."1
Dust of the Ground:
Looldng at "the War" as symbolized by this
so-called curse, with the eye of Spirit, we see
7
86 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
that this curse contains a prophecy of the end
of "the War," i. e., the ultimate victory of the
Spiritual over the mere animal man. Only that
which is made of cosmic dust or Matter can be
cursed by man's disobedience to the Divine Will.
In other words, only that which man received
from his Lunar ancestorshis physical, astral
and desire bodiescan be said to be made of
"dust" or the unredeemed matter of former
eriod1 which formed the chaos into
which the spiritual Light descended at the be-
ginning of this cosmic Day of Evolution.
Transmutation:
Hence the so-called curse may be turned into
a blessing, since it assures us that ultimately all
that is dust (matter) will be returned to its
Source at the end. of "the War," but with the
results of man's higher spiritual understanding
of the great mystery of transmutation or re-
demption impressed upon it. The curse also
tells us in a few cryptic words that the cause of
"the War" is the effort of Spirit to redeem
(literally "buy back" or return to its Source)
Matter.
'See The Vowe of Ins Curtis, Chapter XXIV.
"THE WAR,"RESISTANCE 87
Plan of Redemption:
Perhaps the position of man in this great
struggle can be better comprehended if we con-
sider an earthly simile. In an earthly war only
one who has had experience on both sides or who
is so gifted that he can enter fully and under-
standingly into the point of view of both com-
batants, is fitted to become an Arbitrator. In
the mighty war between Spirit and Matter, man
is such an Arbitrator; for he can, if he will,
reach up into the Spiritual Consciousness and
comprehend the Divine Plan of Redemption,
the power of the Spiritual Consciousness to up-
lift the animal consciousness; can grasp the
reality of the transmuting power of Divine
Love, and understand that only through the
reign of the Heart can there be peace; for the
Intellect, when its dominance is insisted upon,
can but prolong "the War."
Intellect and Intuition:
He can also make his Intellect a powerful
servant which can descend into the most micro-
scopic details of Matter and understand the
point of view and the cause for which the lower
man fights. Through the Light of Intuition he
88 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
can ascend into the higher realms and grasp the
macrocosmic details of the Grand Plan and
realize that through Intellect alone he can never
correlate with the Spirit of that which the In-.
tellect has discovered.
The Curse Removed:
Thus from his position as Arbitrator he can
look down not only into the suffering, misery
and crime created by the resistance of the self-
ish animal desires, but can also see how only
through the spirit of Love and Harmony and
through Obedience to the guidance of the Spirit
can man and nature be redeemed and the curse
be removed.
Victories of Mind:
The victories of the lower mind are precipi-
tated in its home-worldthe physical conscious-
nessas mental and emotional storms, while
the victories of the Higher Mind are accumu-
lated in its home-world as so much added power
of the Spirit to manifest on earth both for the
individual, the Race and the planet
Legends:
"The War" between the Higher and Lower
Selves therefore began when the child of the
"THE WAR,"RESISTANCE 89
Lunar Fathers became also the child of the
Solar Fathers. Hence we find throughout all
myth and allegory the frequent reference to
wars between the Sun-gods and the Moon-gods
or between the Priests of the Sun and the
Priests of the Moon. And in the early races,
the Sun-gods "walked and talked with men,"
that is, through their Divine Incarnations as
great Spiritual Teachers, the Sun-gods taught
the intellectually-infant humanity the principles
of all arts, sciences and philosophies. Many of
these are today temporarily lost because of the
present wave of materialism.
The Masses Unresponsive:
The great mass of the Race was unable to re-
spond to that higher guidance except for a short
time, and there arose a division into two groups,
the smaller of which still followed the Divine
Teachers, and the larger which followed the call
of sense gratification and selfishness represented
by the Priests of the Moon-god. As Eliphas
Levi says: "Men grew weary of the light, took
refuge in the shadow of bodily substance; the
dream of the void, which is filled by God, soon
appeared to be greater than God himself in their
eyes and thus Hell was created."
90 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
The Third Phase:
The third great phase of "tize War" there-
fore nl2nifeSted on earth in the terrible struggle
which took place at the dose of the Fourth or
Atlantean Race between Rima, the first of the
Divine Dynasty or Solar Kings of the. early
Aryan Race, and Ravana, the leader of the
scorcery-working Atlanteans.
Cause of Evolution:
As The Secret Doctrine tells us:1 'With the
Fifth, our own Race, the Lunar-solar worship
divided the nations into distinct, antagonistic
camps. It led to the events described cons later
in the Mahabharatan War." Whether we
take this in its historical aspect or as a legendary
reference to the escape of the Aryans from
Atlantis; as Moses leading the Children of
Israel out of Egypt; as the escape of the higher
faculties from the bondage of the senses; or
purely as an allegorical expression of the Sun-
'The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, i, 426.
2This served as a prototype. . . for the Western nations to
build their War of the Titans upon... The War of the Titans
is but a legendary and deified copy of the real war that took
place.... It is the record of the tenible strife between the
'Sons of God and the 'Sons of Shadow' of the Fourth and Fifth
Races. It is on these two events. . . that every subsequent
national tradition on the subject has been built."
The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky. ii. 525.
"THE WAR,"RESISTANCE 91
Myth, in each instance we have a leader who
represents the Divine Dynasty or Light, Prog-
ress and Evolutionthe upward and indrawing
power which is the cause of all evolution, civili-
zation, progressand who always leads his fol-
lowers in triumph .over the hosts of opposition,
which are inevitably swallowed up in the sea.
Divine Guidance:
In the Bible account this leader is called
Moses, the Law-giver, while in the individual
those faculties which choose to follow the
Divine Law become the "chosen people." By
following the Divine Guidance they are led out
of the bondage of the senses and escape from the
power of King Desire,1 represented by Pharaoh.
But King Desire is loath to let them escape him
and pursues after them, only to be swallowed up
in the waters of the Great Sea, even as the hosts
of Ravana were swallowed up by the sinking of
Atlantis.
War in the Body:
In the physical body "the War" is expressed
through certain storms of bodily inharmony,
illness or disaster which sweep over those who
1Sec chapter on King Desire in The Inner Radiance, Curtiss;
also the lesson on The Great Migration. Curtiss.
92 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
are endeavoring to follow the Higher Guidance
and striving to "live the life." When the ideal
of a higher life is set up by the consciousness it
sounds a new and higher key-note throughout
the body. Those atoms which can respond, an-
swer the call and follow the new Law-giver
and are led out of bondage into the freedom of a
new cycle or expression of Life. While in those
atoms which belong wholly to the old dispensa-
tion, which have fulfilled their mission and are
not sufficiently evolved to take on the higher
vibration and enter the new cycle, the resistance
to the higher call is so great that it brings on
"the War" in which they are vanquished and
sloughed out of the body through a cleansing
cataclysm of illness. This, while it leaves the
body temporarily devastated and weak, has
nevertheless cleared the field of opposition and
prepared for the manifestation of a higher ex-
pression of Life.
War in the Emotions:
In the mental world the outlet will be found
through the emotions. The expression of these
emotions becomes a storm which sweeps away
the control of those who open the door of their
minds through irritation, impatience, anger,
"THE WAR,"RESISTANCE 93
jealousy, envy, animal desires, etc., and leaves
them devastated, yet relieved and ready, in the
next time of trial, for an encounter which shall
be more successful in proportion to the effort
made to conquer in the past.
Transmute Inbarmony:
This, however, should not be made an excuse
for giving way to emotional excitement of any
kind, for a strong effort should always be made
for control and peace, i. e., to transmute inhar-
inony and turn its perverted forces into con-
structive and useful channels. But if a storm
should gather and burst, be ready to set a higher
standard and a greater degree of achievement
in the period of reconstruction.
Initiation:
"The War" is also reflected in the terrible
struggles through which the candidate for
Mastery must pass during his Initiation; the
struggle of the Christ within to slay the dragon
of self; the Guardian Angel to slay the Dweller
on the Threshold. It is also exemplified in the
resistance of humanity to new or higher spirit-
ual teachings; the misunderstanding, misrepre-
sentation, condemnation, slander, persecution,
94 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
final crucifixion but ultimate triumph, through
which every Lightbearer who comes to human-
ity has to pass.
Law of Adjustment:
From the principles outlined above it will be
seen that the wars among nations which ulti-
mately make for enlightenment, civilization,
freedom, the independence of each nation and
the general advance of manldnd, are not evi-
dences of the failure of civilization or the fail-.
ure of thç particular religion which prevails at
the time. They are but sldrmishes in "the
War"; expressions of the cosmic Law of Ad-
justment called Karma, by which that which is
created by mankind must be faced and redeemed;
that whkh is sown must be reaped. There must
be periodic manifestations of "the War" as long
as Matter resists Spirit; as long as barbarism re-
sists civilization; civilization resists the Brother-
hood of Nations; industry resists cooperation;
materialism resists altruism and idealism, in
short, as long as any phase of manifestation re-
sists the call to progress by a higher power.
The Golden Age:
But the conflicts should grow fewer and
fewer and the periods of peace be more and
"THE WAR,"RESISTANCE 95
more prolonged in each succeeding upward
cycle, until the Golden Age of the Seventh Great
Race of man reached; until we return again
to the rule of the Divine Kingsthe "Sons of
God" as the Bible calls themamong men, not
as parents ruling over children, as in the begin-
ning, but as Elder Brothers or Senior Partners
whose experience and wisdom we gladly accept
and follow.
The Great Lesson:
The great lesson to be learned from "The
War" is that it is a very real and personal issue
with each awakened Soul who has responded to
the call of the Divine and donned the armor of
the Christ and become a Soldier of the Cross.
Each Sõul is judged at the close of each life-
cycle by the sum total of how much it has over-
come, how much of the lower self it has flu-
mined by the higher spiritual consciousness.
Real Success:
And strange as it may seem to some, the real
evolution in man is gauged by how successfully
he has fulfilled his mission as Arbitrator be-
tween Spirit and matter, between .the higher
1 details see The Voice of Isir Curtiss, Chapter XV.
96 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
kingdoms and the lower, giving to each its right-
ful place, while he himself stands calm and un
moved in the midst of "the War," confidently
knowing that back of all the turmoil, inhar-
mony and strife are "the everlasting arms" of
Divine Love, and that the true Peace is ever
hovering, like the Breath of God, over the seem-
ing chaos.'
1Written September 30, 1914.
CHAPTER VII
THE BATTLE OF ARMAGEDDON1
"To whom shall I speak, and give warning, that
they may hear? behold, their ear is uncircumcised,
and they cannot harken: behold the word of the
Lord is unto them a reproach; they havç no delight
in it." Jeremiah, vi, 10.
"And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come
out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the,
mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the
false prophet. For they are the spirits of devils,
working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of
the whole earth and of the whole world, to gather
them to the battle of that great day of God Al-
mighty.....And he gathered them together into
a pla called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon."
Revelation, xvi, 13-16.
Me5lning of Armageddon:
The literal meaning of Armageddon is "on
the heights" or "an high," and in this sense it
is used to designate the invisible realms of the
astral plane. The hosts which are gathered to
this great battle are the hosts of the accumu-
lated thought-forms of lust, greed, envy, hate,
selfishness and unbrotherliness engendered by
1Rekased in 1909. See the Book of Enock, apter IX.
97
98 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
the wrong thinking of humanity from the be-
ginning, as well as the results of their evil words
and deeds, all of which are ever seeking expres-
sion through their creators.
Fruit of Thought:
Jeremiah specifically refers to these forces as
causes when he says: "Hear, 0 earth: behold,
I will bring evil upon this people, even the fruit
of their thoughts, because they have not heark-
ened unto my words, nor my law, but rejected
it."1 During this battle all the stored-up evil
must have a focus through which it can pour
itself out upon the lowest or physical plane
where its precipitation will end the cycle of its
manifestation.
Time Is at Hand:
These forces have accumulated because, dur-
ing the childhood of the Race the Masters of
Wisdom and the Rulers of the sub-races have
held the forces back until the Race grew strong
enough to bear them upon its own shoulders;
grew up, as it were. But the Race has now
grown up. The cycle is closing and the time
for the adjustment is at band. "Therefore I
1Jerei,iak. vi 19.
THE BATTLE OF ARMAGEDDON 99
am full of the fury of the Lord (Law); I am
weary with holding in: I will pour it out upon
the children abroad, and upon the assembly of
young men together."1
Huni'n Instruments:
And there is invariably found some human
being who, because of his prominence and be-
cause of his habit of opening his mind to the
insinuating flattery and fatuous promises of
great attainments, or perhaps world dominion,
from the astral leaderswhom the Bible refers
to as "the rulers of the darkness of this world"
becomes the executor or mouthpiece of the
stored-up evil forces or the channel through
which they find expression in the physical world,
as for instance, Nero, the Borgias, and others
in later eras. In this way the evil and unre-
deemed Karma is adjusted so as to permit the
good aspect of the forces involved to be ex-
tracted, just as ore is crushed or melted that the
gold may be extracted.
Self-Chosen Ones:
Often such an one believes himself to be the
chosen of the Lord, chosen to cleanse the world
1jeremJak. vi. 11.
100 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
or to impose his idea of culture upon it; for the
dominant Principalities of Evil have convinced
him that they are the "Voice of God," and he
prides himself on being their obedient servant.
Egotistical Leaders:
While many referred to the last European
conflict as Armageddon, the meaning of the
word shows that war is but one reflection or
outpouring on earth of the real battle that has
been raging in the higher realms. It is pre-
cipitated now because another earthly channel
has been found in the person of a leader suffi-
ciently egotistical, presumptuous and self-
righteous to listen to the flattery of the obsess-
ing astral entities and become the earthly advo-
cate of those powers of darkness.
War and Catadysins:
The working out and adjustment of these
karmic forces must take place at the close of
each Race, and in a lesser degree at the close
of each sub-race. This adjustment precipitates
the great race wars which are followed by the
cataclysms which mark the close of sub-races
and Races; for every particle of matter com-
posing the Race-continents, as well as every
THE BATTLE OF ARMAGEDDON 101
particle in the body of individual man, must
have its own individual balancing, purification,
readjustment and ultimate redemption, that it
may be ready for the same people when they re-
incarnate again.
Sinking of Atlantis:
The last great racial Armageddon occurred
just before the sinking of the continent of At-
lantis, at the close of the cycle of .the Fourth
Great Race (Atlantean). "This hints at the
struggle between the 'Sons of God' and the Sons
of the Dark Wisdomour forefathers; or be-
tween the Atlanteans and the Aryan Adepts.
The whole history of that period is allegorized
in the Ramayana which is the mystic narrative
in epic form of the struggle between Rama
the first ldng of the Divine Dynasty of the early
Aryans and the agent of the white forcesand
Ravana, the symbolic personification of the At-
lantean (Lanka) Race and the agent of the
Black forces. The former were the incarna-
tions of the Solar Gods; the latter, of the Lunar
Devas.
Battle of Good and Evil:
This was the great battle between Good and
Evil, between White and Black Magic, for the
102 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
supremacy of the divine forces over the lower
terrestrial, or cosmic powers."1 The sinking
of the continent of Atlantis which followed was
the balancing of the accounts of the entire
Fourth Race. It was a necessary preparation
(through the purifying action of the salt water)
of the continent for a future Race.
The Survivors:
The survivorsthose who were sufficiently
spiritualized, awakened and obedient, to follow
their Divine Rulerswere picked out, separated
and trained by the Masters long before the sink-
ing of the continent, and became the seed of the
present Fifth (Aryan) Great Race, just as some
are now being chosen and trained for a similar
function.
Sub-race Karma:
Ere this present Fifth race endsand we are
now just entering upon its sixth sub-race 'a
similar adjustment of its Race Karma must take
place, and it has now already begun its physical
manifestation. The great European war now
raging offers a focal point through which the
177 Secret Docfrmne Blavatslcy, II, 53).
See The Voice of Ia. Cwtiss. apter XVIL
THE BATTLE OF ARMAGEDDON 103
Karma of the fifth sub-race of the Aryans can
be precipitated on the physical plane and ad-
justed.
A Deluded Leader:
For it is the beginning of the great period
which will mark the close of the Fifth Great
Race. And in Emperor William of Germany'
a leader has been found who could be so deluded
and obsessed as to be used as the tool of the dark
forces. But we must remember the words of
Jesus: "It must needs be that offences come;
but woe to that man by whom the offence
cometh." Therefore, while we must condemn
his acts we must also pity and pray for the mzrn.
Europe, the Focal Point:
Europe is the first focal point because it was
in Europe that the greater part of that Karma
was engendered, 1. e., through the many bitter
political wars which drenched its soil in blood;
through the sectarian wars carried on in the
name of the Church, but which perverted re-
ligion and made priest-craft a curse; and
through the intolerance, selfishness, and mental
and spiritual blindness of the religious leaders
'And now in Adolph Hitler.
104 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
which manifested in the mental war which
finally culminated in the most inhuman persecu-
tions the civilized world has ever knownthe
Inquisition.
The Inquisition:
Today we are reaping especially the Karma
sown by the unspeakable cruelties practised by
the Inquisition; for it stands as the great crime
of the fifth sub-race. While it is true that
Christians were burned and tortured in the
earlier centuries by Nero and others, even what
are called the pre-Christian atrocities were but
the spawn out of which the Inquisition was
hatched, and from that can be traced almost all
the degrading crimes of the later days, es-
pecially intolerance and hatred and their results.
Inquisition in Germany:
We are apt to associate the Inquisition with
Spain, yet Spain and her Western colonies did
not institute the Inquisition until the year 1232,
while in Italy, France, England and Germany
it was in full swing, with intervals of cessation,
from early in the sixth century. Especially in
Germany, with Conrad of Marburg (called the
"Terrible") as chief inquisitor, the cruelty was
THE BATTLE OF ARMAGEDDON 105
prosecuted with such extreme zeal as even to
exceed the wishes of the Pope. The Inquisition
was also established on the high seas in all gal-
leys and ships. There the cruelties and punish-
nients were beyond belief.
Astral Battles:
The battles of the physical world are fought
on the physical plane with physical weapons,
but the true battle of Armageddon must be
fought first upon the astral plane with thoughts
and psychic forces for weapons, the conflict now
raging being but a pouring out of the evil and
a gathering together of the forces of Good for
the final battle on the higher planes.
Time of Adjustment:
This battle has already begun. And during
the entire sixth sub-race of the present Fifth
Great Race we may expect a more or less un-
settled condition. For this is the time of adjust-
ment; the time of struggle to overcome the evils
which the Race as a whole has outlived, yet
which it has not fully conquered and redeemed.
The Cbrist-for:
The number 6 is both the number of the
Christ1 and also of unrest. It symbolizes the
1See The Key to the Unherse. Curths. 195.
106 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
mighty struggle of the Christ-force to penetrate
into and transmute the evil and manifest itself.
Hence only as humanity enters into the seventh
sub-race will it have true and lasting world
peace and rest; for God blessed the seventh day
and hallowed it (also the seventh Race and each
seventh sub-race is especially blessed), and dur-
ing that period rested from His labors.
Coming Disasters:
Therefore the progress of the sixth sub-race
into which we are now entering will be marked
by tremendous disasters precipitated upon the
physical plane 1wars, unusual earthquakes,
cyclones, volcanic eruptions and meteoric
showers, floods, etcof more or less severity
until the final battle and catadysm in which the
battlefield and the defeated army will be swal-
lowed up and a new and purified land shall rise
out of the waters, during the sixth sub-race, for
the new Sixth Great Race to inhabit. The vic-
tors will remain as the seed of the New Race to
people the new land.
The First Battle:
The "final battle" does not refer to the end
of this present war of nations, but to the close
1Ft nublished in 1909.
THE BATTLE OF ARMAGEDDON 107
of the true battle of Armageddon of which the
present World War is but the first phase.
Lemuria Rising:
The cataclysmic changes in the earth's sur-
face will result in there rising out of the waters
of the Pacific ocean the ancient Lemurian con-
tinent, which, during the entire seventh sub-
race, will pass through the various steps1 neces-
sary to make it a fit dwelling pla for the Sixth
Great Race.
The New Hnninity:
Just as these changes must take place for the
planet, so must they take place in humanity
through bloody wars, strikes and other conflicts
which will continue until all conflicts of man
with man, and man's resistance to the Divine
are swallowed up, and out of the waters of afihic-
tion there shall arise a new and greater human-
ity with true Brotherhood, Love, Peace, Har-
mony and Cooperation, as its watchword.
The time has now come when the accumulated
mass of old Race Karma must be definitely met
and conquered ere humanity can enter upon the
new sub-race, its next step in evolution.
1Sec The Voice of isis. Curtiss, 38&
108 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
The Dweller:
This, in a measure, is to the world what the
Dweller on the Threshold is to the neophyte.
And as with the neophyte before each important
step is taken, it must be met and conquered.
For just as the neophyte, through his evil
thoughts, words and acts, has created an enti-
tized form of evilhis individual Dwellerso
the planet has been pouring out its evils
throughout its long cycle until they have become
entitized as a "dark planet" with a living Ruler,
the Anti-Christ who definitely works through
those who give themselves up to his guidance or
obsession. This planet may be called the
Dweller on the Threshold for humanity as a
whole.
The Destroyer Planet:
The astronomers of Harvard University
have already discovered the influence of this
dark planet 1the Destroyerwhich, if en-
countered, means the destruction of the earth.
1This prophesy has recently (1917) been strikingly confirmed
by Dr. W. W. Campbell, Director of Lick Observatory who, in
explaining why there were sudden black gaps or "holes" in the
giant star dusters around which there was "a high density of
star distribution right up to the sharply defined edges of the
holes and yet leave the holes empty of stars," stated in his re-
marks on the Nebulæ in the American Museum of Natural
History, that "he was inclined to assume with Barnard and
THE BATTLE OF ARMAGEDDON 109
Our System Astray:
Astronomer Serviss is quoted as saying that
the earth and this whole solar system has gone
astray and is trailing off away from its path
around the great sun Alcyone in the Pleiades,
toward the constellation Andromeda in the
Milky Way. These are but astronomical con-
firmations of the fact that we have entered the
sixth sub-race, and that the host are rapidly
gathering for the great Battle of Armageddon.
The Redeemer Planet:
The earth is being driven through space in
this new direction by the character of the
thought-force of its collective humanity. But
there is 'another planet, not yet recognized by
science, which is a bright planetthe Redeemer
to be drawn into whose aura means salvation.
These two planets may be called the camping
grounds of the opposing forces, with the earth
between as the battleground.
others, that the stars are actually there and that they are in-
visibIe because invisible material, between us and the stars are
absorbing or hiding the light which the stars are trying to send
us".. . "The so-called new stars afford interesting evidence on
this point. These are stars which suddenly flash out at poiats
where previously no stars were known to exist. . . a temporary
star is seemingly best explained on the theory that a dark or
relatively dark star travelling rapidly through space has met with
resistance."
110 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
The Real Battle:
But back of and within the outer cause, as the
propelling power, will be the preponderating
force of good or evil thoughts engendered by
humanity. Therefore the real battle is to be
fought on the mental and astral planes with
thoughts and psychic forces, good and bad, as
weapons, and later will be reflected and precipi-
tated on and in the earth. Hence all advanced
students, who consciously determine to make
Love, Brotherhood, Purity and Peace their
standards of life, should enroll themselves
among the Hosts of the Lord and become Sol-
diers of the Cross.
Baptism of Fire:
The earth and humanity are purified alter-
nately by water and by fire, and both are now
passing through a baptism of fire. Every sol-
dier in the armies, as well as every munition
maker and helper or other worker behind the
lines, is helping the Great Law to bring this
purifying process into manifestation. Hence
each one is a servant of the Divine Flame and
is helping to work out a cosmic event in the evo-
lution of mtnkind, whether he or she knows it
or not.
THE BATTLE OF ARMAGEDDON 111
The Dragon:
The Dragon of the text quoted at the head of
this chapter symbolizes the synthesis of the
world's perverted thoughts of sex and is com-
monly called the Devil. The three unclean
spirits like frogs which come from his mouth
symbolize the three great expressions of the
dragon-force, i. e., (a) sex impurity, suppres-
sion and perversion; (b) the creation of disease
by such perversion, and (c) extreme cruelty,
frightfulness and insanity or psychic obsession
resulting from astral entitiesor individual
Dwellers on the Thresholdutilizing sensitive
but negative victims through which they can
satisfy their desires.
The Beast:
The Beast is a symbol of Mammon or greed,
expressing through the Money Power. The
three evil spirits issuing from his mouth com-
prise all the miseries and sorrows that arise as
a result of greed and injustice in their threefold
expressions of (a) wars, prosecuted for terri-
torial or commercial expansion, stimulated and
financed by the Money Power; (b) poverty, re-
1For full details as to the effects of obsession and their
vvcution or awe see Realms of the LJvug Dead. Curtiss.
112 ThE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
suIting from the unjust distribution of wealth,
which distribution is controlled by the Money
Power; and (c) all the train of evils resulting
from bodily and industrial slavery.
The False Prophet:
The False Prophet symbolizes all the false
teachings which have been given out in the name
of religion or spiritual teaching to justify and
uphold both the Dragon and the Beast, but
which have misled humanity and held it back
from manifesting Peace, Love and Brother-
hood. From his mouth come forth the three
frogs of (a) materialized religion, priestcraft
and temporal power and world dominion;
(b) spiritual pride; and (c) intolerance and its
band-maiden, religious persecution.
King Desire:
This conifict of pride, intolerance, and perse-
cution did not die out with the Inquisition, but
is still active today. It is now directed not so
much agiinst the physical bodies of its victims,
but is carried on mentally and psychically
through the slanders, scandal and malicious
misrepresentation carried onespecially against
religious teachersthrough various publica-
THE BATTLE OF ARMAGEDDON 113
tions and commonly called "brutal journalism."
All these factors, as the passage quoted plainly
tells us, work for King Desire and his allies and
their cohorts.
Carnal Weapons:
One of the first rules impressed upon the
spiritual aspirant is that to attain at-one--ment
by the path of Love and Purity he must lay
down all carnal weapons. Jesus emphasized
this rule when He said to Peter: "Put up again
thy sword into his place: for all they that take
the sword shall perish with the sword."1 Yet
we find the disciple spoken of as a Soldier of the
Cross and commanded to array himself as a
fighting factor in the world's salvation. Jesus
also said: "I caine not to send peace, but a
sword.:
Plane of Causes:
Behind this paradox lies a great truth, the
understanding of which is necessary ere any de-
cided conscious advance in the spiritual unfold-
ment of either the individual or the Race can
take place, i. e., the conquering must take place
'Matthew, xxvi, 52.
2Matthew. x. 3t
114 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
on the plane where the causes are engendered,
and the weapons are Love and Purity.
Trsincmute Evil:
This means that thoughts and prayers of
Love and Purity must be sent out in such num-
bers and with such positive spiritual force that
they will surround and transmute the impure
and antagonistic forces, following the same tac-
tics as the white warrior cells (phagocytes) of
the blood use in meeting an invasion of disease
germs; i. e., not deny the evil, but surround and
transmute the evil into Good.
Control Your Thoughts:
The Voice of the Silence tells us: "Strive
with thy thoughts unclean before they over-
power thee. Use them as they will thee, for if
thou sparest them and they take root andgrow,
know well these thoughts will overpower and
kill thee."1 If you find them persistently cling-
ing to you, send out an army of pure and loving
thoughts to absorb and transmute them.
Moral Epidemics:
Science recognizes the fact that, during epi-
demics of disease, the mere thinldng and talk-
1Blavatsky. p 12.
THE BATTLE OF ARMAGEDDON 115
ing about the disease will make negative persons
more susceptible to it. This does not mean, that
all disease is merely mental, but that by negative
thoughts you open a door in your aura through
which the disease can enter. This effect is still
more evident in moral epidemics and in the epi-
demics of war-thoughts which sweep over na-
tions.
Carnal Thoughts:
Therefore the spiritual aspirant, while fight-
ing steadfastly for Justice and Righteousness,
should lay down all carnal thoughts of hatred
and revenge or he will surely "perish by the
sword," overcome by the hosts of evil thought-
forms he has drawn into his aura.
Karmic Readjustment:
Applied to warring nations this principle in-
dicates that we should not waste time and force
in specifically directing our prayers and thought
forces to the European nations that they shall
cease fighting, for they are acting under the
tremendous urge of long pent-up karmic read-
justment which must take place, and cannot re-
spond to our prayers until after that karmic re--
adjustment has been worked out. As well
116 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
might we sit down and pray that a dirty room
might be swept and cleaned without any action
on our part. The result can be accomplished
only by the power of the housemaid's broom.
Efficacious Prayer:
There is only one efficacious way to pray for
peace and that is to pray that the Will of the
Father shall be done on eartheven as it is in
heaventhrough those who can understand,
respond to and execute that Will. That Divine
Will is Love, first, last and all the time. And
having prayed thus believe and know that this
Divine Love is back of the entire world of mani-
festation, and that it is ever working to bring
about the reign of universal Love, Peace and
Harmony, even though it be necessary to sweep
from its path all that opposes that reign.
Race Accumulations:
The terrible conditions which prevail today
are not the Will of the Father, but are the cre-
ations of man; the result of his resistance and
opposition to the Divine Will; the creations of
unbrotherliness, ambition, selfishness, and
greed, not altogether on the part of those instru-
mental in precipitating and now participating
THE BATTLE OF ARMAGEDDON 117
in the present conflict, but the accumulation of
selfishness and greed of the Race, all of which
must come up for adjustment now at the close
of the cycle of the fifth sub-race or the end of
the old dispensation, just as the rash must come
out in measles, scarlet fever, etc., ere the real
healing can begin.
Peace and Righteousness:
Therefore while you pray that these days be
shortened, know that Peace and Righteousness
must first come in the hearts of the people of
oil the nations involved and of the whole world.
Curse of Militarism:
Try not to think of individuals except in com-
passion, Imowing that the Great Law will adjust
their conditions in its own good time. Those
who are dying for their ideals, even though
those ideals be but of local patriotism and
loyalty to an earthly ruler, are in a measure re-
deemers for the Race; for they are dying that
the Race may be purged from the war-thought,
the war-ideal and the curse of militarism.
Hence in the next incarnation they will receive
the iust reward for their sacrifice.
118 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
Spiritual Compensation:
By their suffering and dying they have
brought the world to a greater realization of
the utter folly and needlessness of war if the
Divine Will were followed. By their sacrifice
they have wiped out much of the individual and
racial Karma and will receive their compensa-
tion by being enabled to incarnate the next time
very quickly, and under far more advanced con-
ditions of civilization than they could have ex-
perienced had they remained a few years longer
in the present life.
Federation of Nations:
Send your forces of Love, Peace and Broth-
erhood into the higher realms where they will
aggregate into a mighty force which shall swal-
low up all future thoughts of national selfish-
ness and aggrandizement, and be a powerful
factor in forming a Federation of European
Nations on the grounds of common humanity
and brotherhood. This shall make it impossible
for the ambitions or passions of a few to plunge
nations into bloody and needless conflicts, and
shall be an important factor in preparing for
the coming of the Avatar.
THE BATTLE OF ARMAGEDDON 119
A Super-Government:
Such a Federation of Nations would func-
tion through a Senate of 12 delegates and a
House composed of representatives of all na-
tions and peoples. This would constitute a
Super-government which would have jurisdic-
fionover all international affairs.
Enforcement:
Because of the innate selfishness of the
spiritually unevolved masses, the decrees of the
Federation would need to be enforced by army,
navy and aerial forces contributed from the
armed forces (say Mo) of all member nations,
and financed by them.
Internal Independence:
Thus every nation and people would be hide-
pendent and under the rule of whatever type of
government they might choose for their internal
national life, but subject to the decrees of the
Federation in all matters affecting international
relations. Each government would adopt and
enforce a Bill of Rights adopted by the Federa-
tion, corresponding to that of the United States.
120 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
Astral Commotion:
All persons who are sensitive have realized
for some time that there is a terrible commotion
in the menial and astral worlds which is now
intensified by the physical conflict going on in
Europe, and also by the thousands of Souls sud-
denly thrown out of incarnation, many of whom
carry with them all the excitement, antagonism
and hatred which znim2ted them as they
fought.1
Dying in flatred:
Those who die with hatred in their hearts
and who remain unchanged in the after-life,
while consciously opposing the reign of Right-
eousness will remain out of incarnation for a
long, long cycle; in fact, until the Race has
learned how to deal with them.
Emotional Control:
This composite force is like a tension or
steady pressure upon all humanity, tending to
make all persons more irritable and excited.
Therefore it is the duty of every advanced
student to take special pains to see that he does
not make an opening in his aura through which
1For a full explanation of all after-death conditions see
Realms of the Living Dead, Curtiss.
THE BATTLE OF ARMAGEDDON 121
such forces can manifest by giving way to im-
patience, irritation and emotion or to partisan-
ship, race and class antagonism.
Become Centers of Peace:
Instead he should consciously strive to make
himself a center from and through which the
constructive forces of Peace, Harmony, Love
and Brotherhood can radiate in his family and
immediate environment and on out into all the
world.
Vitalized Thoughts:
Arrayed against the hosts of evil stand the
thought-creations of Love, Harmony, Justice,
Righteousness, Purity and upliftment of the
Race sent out in a steady stream by the Lodge
of Masters and by all Great Teachers since the
world began, as well as by all who have been
able to think vitalized thoughts of Love and
Purity, Harnibny and Brotherhood. All hu-
manity have added and are still adding their
quota to one side or the other.
Array Yourself:
It is the destiny of this fifth sub-race to see
the beginning of this great and decisive battle
122 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
between Good and evil or, to be more explicit,
between Purity and impurity, Unselfishness and
selfishness. Hence it is time that all who de-
sire the salvation of the Race and the planet
should awaken to the grave conditions we have
outlined herein, and determinately array them-
selves on the side of Good by sending their in-
dividual, pure and vital love force to swell the
Hosts of the Lord.
Loving Thoughts:
For you cannot say a loving word or do a
loving deed, even to an animal, without having
a loving thought behind it. And every loving
and peaceful thought adds strength to the Army
of the Good. As the Christ says: "In as much
as ye have done it unto one of the least of these
my brethren, ye have done it unto me."
Hosts of the Lord:
The pure Hosts of the Lord are mustered in
serried ranks according to natural law and
order, while the forces of evil, being a perver-
sion of nature and abnormal, are not organized
in the astral world except into individual bands
loosely held together only by self-interest, and
ready at any moment to turn upon one another.
THE BATTLE OF ARMAGEDDON 123
Power of Organization:
A well-known principle of warfare is that a
small but well-organized army can overcome a
much larger force that is unorganized. And
as evil and impure forces are usually sent out
by haphazard impulse they may be compared to
an unorganized mob, while thoughts of Good,
because they require will and effort, are con-
sciously created, and can be gathered together
by the Masters and formed into a well-drilled,
well-disciplined and well-officered army, always
in good fighting condition. Good is stronger
than evil because it is constructive and immortal
and works in harmony with the Great Law.
The Masters' Help:
The Masters of the Great White Lodge,1 al-
though few in numbers as compared with the
multitudes of humanity, are, nevertheless, able
to engender and consciously use a far greater
degree of creative force on the side of Purity,
Peace, Love and Brotherhood. But even They
must work with the Law as Karma and may not
forcibly prevent a Race or sub-race from ex-
periencing its karmic retribution and readjust-
ment But Their efforts, being consciously di-
1Fcr description see The Voice of isis, Curtiss 53 187.
124 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
rected and wisely applied, weigh heavily in the
scale.
Their Inspiration:
They do not act on the physical plane, how-
ever, except through Their disciples and those
who respond to Their inspiring currents of
force; hence Their great need today of those
who will consciously make themselves centers
of Peace, Purity, Harmony and Love and be
more or less conscious instruments through
which They can work. They are the directing
for, comparable to the officers of an army, but
the disciples must consciously become willing
volunteers who shall compose the great body of
fighting units which the Masters shall train and
direct.
Army of the Lord:
Therefore, instead of devoting all your ef-
forts toward unfolding your faculties and de-
veloping your personality, set to work earnestly
and consciously to create warriors for the Army
of the Lord to the end that not only the Race
but the planet itself, sliill be saved from de-
struction.
iReleased May 1909. Revised Sept. 30, 1914 and Sept. 15,1917.)
CHAPTER VIII
A WORLD-WIDE CALL TO PRAYER1
"The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man
availeth much." James, v 16.
"Except those days should be shortened, there
should no flesh be saved: but for the elect's sake
Shose days shall be shortened.'
St. Matthe xxiv, 23.
- 'Prayer is a channel leading to the attainment of
a fixed purpose. To pray for ourselves, is, if
rightly understood, merely recognizing the inflow
of Divine Love and striving to make a place for and
direct it. To ask for guidance is but to take hold of
the Power of Divinity as a little child grasps its
father's hand."
Letters from the Teacher, Curtiss, 104S.
The Call:
The Universal Religious Foundation calls to
its students and followers in all lands, and to all
lovers of Truth, Justice and Righteousness, to
join with it at noon each day in sending up a
united prayer for the success of the Allied cause.
Divine Instruments:
It is not that we are asking the powers of
Divinity to aid us in killing our fellow-men, but
1j August 7th, 1917.
lag
126 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
to help us overcome the resistance of certain
leaders of men to the reign of Justice and Right-
eousness, no matter how harsh the means re-
quired, that we may be the instruments of the
Divine in bringing about the reign of Peace,
Love and Harmony throughout the world.
Mass Prayer:
The concentration of the minds and hearts of
thousands of advanced students in many lands
who understand the power and reality of the
currents of force generated by thought, aspira-
tion, love and the will for righteousness, will
cause such an outpouring of creative thought-
and love-force that it shall rise like incense into
the higher realms and rain down upon the hearts
and minds of hnmrnity with such quickening
power as to fructify every mind capable of
grasping and responding to the ideas which the
Prayer embodies and vivifying them into action.
Prayer for the Allied Cause
0 Thou loving and helpful Master Jesus!'
Thou who, standing at the right hand of the
Father, seest the sorrows and afflictions of Thy
children, help thens to pass through the purify-
1As to the use of Jesus' name ses sage 135.
WORLD-WIDE CALL TO PRAYER 127
ing fires of suffering and sacrifice with humility,
unselfichness and sanity.
As æ fight that Right and Justice ,nay pre-
vail, help us to realise and use the Power of
Righteousness that ic ever present with us.
Help us to recognize through Thee the cleans-
ing power of the divine Chrict-force, that we
may have a vital realizatiom of our duty in help-.
ing to shorten these days and make thy Love
and Justice prevail upon earth, even as it does in
heaven.
Help us to recognize that Thy Day of Reck-
oning has come; the day when a national ambi-
tion that would enslave the world; when cruelty
and deceitful craftiness in high places; when
frightfulness on land and sea, must be .cwal-
lowed up in the fierce Fires of Justice which
recognize no position, rank or personality.
Pour out upon us the Love that sacrifices
itself for mankind and the Power which sus-
tains that sacrifice, that each heart may burn
with ardor to achieve, and thrill with the assur-
ance of victory for the cause of Democracy,
Freedom and the Regeneration of the earth.
Grant that the Allied Nations may be so
united in heart and mind and so animated by
the love of mankind that the life-force of no-
128 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
tional solidarity shall fill the body of each nation
full to overflowing with Courage, Sanity,.De-
votion and. Self-sacrifice, that the victory we
know must come shall be speedy and shall be a
victory of Ike Christ over all opposition to His
reign. In the name of the Living Christ we
ask that these days be shortened. Amen.
Christians' Opportunity:
May the illuminating power which such a
Prayer generates rouse the Christian nations to
a realization of the great opportunity that con-
fronts them, that they may rise in their strength
and might as Apostles of Freedom or go down
in history disgraced forever.
Ideals of Lincoln and Grant:
May their young men be filled with the Spirit
of Patriotism, Justice and indomitable Courage
which nothing can daunt; with the spirit which
cannot see defeat, looking ever at the vision of
victory, even amidst want and suffering; that
they may be filled with that simple trust in the
power of a just cause ever held by Abraham
Lincoln, and be animated by the same tenacity
of purpose that brought victory to U. S. Grant.
WORLD-WIDE CALL TO PRAYER 129
Shorten the Days:
In the description of those days through
which the planet is now passing, it is written
that "Except those days should be shortened,
there should no flesh be saved: but for the elect's
sake those days shall be shortened." Who are
the elect for whose sake these days of tribula-
tion and retribution shall le shortened? They
are those Souls who while recognizing the ter-
rible karmic conditions through which humanity
and the globe is passing, nevertheless bravely
give of all they havetheir loved ones, their
treasure, their help in every waywith the
.realiztion that there is a power given them to
shorten these days.
Heart Sympathy:
What does this mean? for it has a mighty
mystic power. It is the power of your prayers,
of your interest, of your full comprehension of
that which is transpiring, and of your heart
sympathy with those who are marching forth
to lay down their lives for you and yours.
Spirit of the Race:
This great conflict is drawing together thou-
sands of young men who have no comprehen-
130 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
sion õf the seriousness of life, of the frightful-
ness of war and the awfulness of the things
they will have to face. But in even these Un-
awakened ones is the Spirit of the Race which
in spite of all will make them give a good ac-
countof themselves.
Gaily Marching:
Thousands are marching out young and gay
and trifling, with no thought of life as a serious
problem, who will come back appalled with the
terrors they have passed through, with all their
gaiety and joyfulness plucked from their breasts
by the iron hand of war.1
The Saddened Ones:
These are the ones who especially need our
prayers and our understanding sympathy. For
this is a class quite apart from those who give
their lives, and from those who return wounded
and crippled, and it is these saddened and
stricken ones who will help make the founda-
lions on whii the new civilization must be
built, be it one of law, peace and harmony or one
of lawlessness or ruthless tyranny.
1Later fulfilled by tbozc who returned wounded, shefl-hocked
or bittered.
WORLD-WIDE CALL TO PRAYER 131
The Lawless:
Others will come back filled with revenge,
callous to suffering, crying out for retaliation
without pity. These, too, will be among those
who will rehabilitate our country. We do not
want a land filled with pitilessness, cruelty and
revenge. We do not want a land filled with
the insanity of war. Neither do we want to go
through another Inquisition 'nor another reign
of the Puritans with their cold, joyless, unsym-
pathetic bigotry. Yet it is possible for all these
things to come again.
Pity, Not Revenge:
Men's hearts have existed without pity in past
ages and those days may come again. There-
fore hold over the world the vision of the reign
of Peace, Righteousness and Sanity. Pray that
our sons shall not awaken from their ignorance
to become hard-hearted and revengeful. Pray
that all nations shall learn out of their suffering
that revenge is not the way to readjust the con-
ditions left after the war.
Slackers:
Could you see your homes devastated, the
soil of your home-land soaked with blood and
132 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
your children starving, as thousands in Europe
are forced to see today, and stand idly by with
the pacifists and slackers? Even if the world
were to end, if that meant the end of war, it
would be welcome to many. But it cannot be
yet.
Awaken the Elect:
There are two full Races, each with their
seven sub-races, nations and tribes, yet to have
their day of manifestation before the great Day
of Rest. Therefore it is the duty of all the
awakened to elect themselves to be the shortners
of these terrible days.
Understand the Significance:
This can be done not only by letting our sol-
diers march forth and join band and heart with
the Allies who are maldng such great sacrifices
not only the men on the battlefields, but also
the women at home who with the courage of
willing sacrifice and thankful sorrow give the
bravest and best of their sonsto achieve a
noble end, but also by an understanding of the
significance of the events of these days and
those to follow, and unceasing prayer that the
days be shortened.
WORLD-WIDE CALL TO PRAYER 133
Pray for Kindness:
Pray not only that young lives may be saved,
but that their sanity, kindness of heart and love
may be preserved; for they will be the ones who
will return and make the laws of all the lands
in the future.
Powers of Darkness:
Remember that we fight not merely against
men and conditions, but against the principali-
ties and powers of darkness which seek to push
this planet out of its path that it may fail and
cease to be.1 And if they fail in one effort it is
easy for them to make another unless van-
quished by the Hosts of the Lord whom we in-
voke through prayer.
Do Your Bit:
You are not "doing your bit" if you merely
go about your "business ås usual" and forget
to pray. Let your prayers go up unceasingly
that Wisdom, Love and Righteousness may pre-
vail; that the world may be cleansed and pre-
pared to start the New Day purged from evil.
1Sec page 114.
134 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
Separate Prayers for Germany:
The fact that we do not indude Germany
and her allies in this Prayerwho, because
she is the sheep which has gone astray and
hence needs our separate prayers more than th
ninety and nine who have remained within the
foldmay seem to some that we are not ful-
fifing the law of the Christ which says, "Love
your enemies, do good to them which hate you.
Bless them that curse you, and pray for them
Which despitefully use you."
Prayer Against Compulsion:
We admit the law and endeavor to follow it,
but we are convinced that while the German
people need our love and our prayers, yet since
her leaders have permitted her to become the
avenue through which all the evils we are pray-
ing to overcome have been permitted to mani-
fest on earth, we must pray for the success of
all those forces which are fighting to overcome
these evils and sweep from the earth those in-
fluences which have deliberately brought this
terrible war upon mankind, and which seek to
prolong it that they may impose their will upon
the nations of the world to their enslavement.
WORLD-WIDE CALL TO PRAYER 135
Germany's Awakening:
We send out this prayer because we believe
that America and the Allies are fighting for
Right and Justice, yet we pray just as sincerely
that Germany may awaken1 to a realization of
her shortcomings and crimes, and the people of
Germany to their duty to uphold Truth, Justice
and Righteousness, Freedom and Self-govern-
ment against the whims and passions of an
irresponsible autocracy. Yet the place of a
petition for Germany is not in the present
Prayer, for this is a special prayer for the suc-
cess of those forces which are engaged in
sweeping from the world militarism and autoc-
racy, a necessary condition for the New Age
upon which we are entering.
A Master of Masters:
In using the name of Jesus we are not merely
praying to a man who lived nearly two thousand
years ago, but we consciously recognize Him as
the Great Master of Masters who is at the head
of the divine Healing Hierarchy, ever ready to
answer such a call and pour out His forces upon
1Germany's awakening resulted in the "loss of mosaic" for
war and the sail for an armistice.
136 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
us, not to relieve us from our responsibility for
the sin and suffering we have created, but to
instil into each heart something of His own
power both of seeing the beauty of Righteous-
ness and Justice, and the strength to establish
the same upon earth.
The Name of Jesus:
The name of Jesus has great power and po-
tency, for it stands for the Man who has con-
quered, who is our example, who is God. For
we also can conquer if we open our hearts to
the inflow of the Christ-force.
Power of the Christ:
Such a call sent up from the united hearts of
our many, many students in all lands, and of
our sympathizing friends, who know how to
pray, i. e., who know that we are not asking to
have someone else do something for us, but
that the Power of the Christ shall so fill us that
we may accomplish for ourselves, will bless
every man in all the ranks and enable them to do
all that Jesus has promised could be accom-
plished through the same Spirit of the Christ
that made Him one with the Father.
WORLD-WIDE CALL TO PRAYER 137
Our Realization:
Only such a call can pierce the earth-born
clouds created by man's misconception and mis-
understanding which hide the earthly from the
Divine, and open his consciousness to the reali-
zation that the Divine is also in him. To the
degree that we lay our lives and our loves, our
goods and our gains upon the altar of sacrifice
that the world may be cleansed from evil, so
shall it be.
Effect of Prayer:
If your eyes could be opened to see the effect
the repetition of this Prayer produces in the
Jiigher realms and the forces it brings to your
aid, your faith would be strengthened and your
heart assured. Especially is it effective when
sent up from the hearts of many persons at the
same time or successively a few at a time, as will
be the case if every student repeats it at 12
o'clock noon on each day.
Always Noon Somewhere:
As it is noon at some part of the globe all
the time, and as our pupils extend around the
world, there will be a ceaseless repetition of
this prayer throughout the twenty-four hours
138 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
of the day. We therefore expect great power to
result from this continuous Day of Prayer.
Cooperation Needed:
We ask all our students, and all die friends
who will cooperate with us, to pin this an-
nouncement up where it will be called to their
attention daily and to meditate upon it and re-
peat it daily until the war is over and harmoni-
ous conditions established. If it is not com-
mitted to memory it should be copied and carried
in the pocket so that no matter where they are
or what they may be doing outwardly they will
have it at hand to read and repeat
Meditation:
If possible its repetition should be followed
by a period of silence and meditation during
which the spiritual power invoked should be
seen pouring down upon America and the Allies
and their forces, flooding all with the light of
spiritual understanding and the courage of
religious conviction.
Pray Daily:
Repeat the Prayer aloud daily and then sit in
silence and realize its potency for the triumph
WORLD-WIDE CALL TO PRAYER 139
of Justice and Righteousness. Keep on doing
this daily until the war is over and peace is
restored to all nations.
Shorten These Days:
If you lift up your hearts in prayer unceas-
ing you have it in your power to stop this war.
If you raise your hands in supplication day
after day and night after night, never for-
getting the terror the world is passing through
and the power of the Christ to conquer all con-
ditions when truly invoked, these days shall be
shortened. But you must elect yourselves to be
the shorteners of these days.
Do Not Kinder:
Do not give aid or sympathy to those who
would hinder America from doing her part,
lest America have to stand in the Day of Judg-
ment with head bowed in shame because she was
too slow in striking a blow for Freedom and
Civilization.
Sanity Needed:
Pray not only for peace, but for sanity. It
is sanity that is needed. For the world is going
mad, one class ignoring the suffering of another
140 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
class; one class mad with sudden wealth, gaiety
and frivolity, another class mad with poverty,
sacrifice, suffering and horror.
Keep Poised:
Keep your minds balanced and poised and
help to keep others from going to extremes.
Pray for the sanity and normal balance of the
world. Talk it. Preach it. Pray for it.
Hold Fast:
Hold fast to normal balance first in our own
country and then in the countries which are
fighting your battles, then for all who are the
victims of this madness that is obsessing the
world.
(This call to a daily noon-tide Prayer for the Allies was sent
throughout the world by the Order of Christian Mystics on
August 7, 1917. The special day to inaugurate its universal
repetition was set for September 9, 1917, at which time a special
service was held at the Headquarters of the Order then in
Philadelphia. Since that time the idea has rapidly gained ground
and churches of all denominations in many cities have inaugn-
rated mi1ar services, thus showing that the inspiration of the
idea is Ilnding response in every heart and mind attuned to it
All who read this are urged, not only to repeat the Prayer
daily, but to present the subject to the religious leaders of their
C..m..rnty and endeavor to have some kind of Noon Prayer
Service for the Allies inaugurated and continued until the war is
and conditions of peace are rmly established. (Aug. 7,
CHAPTER IX
A PRAYER FOR WORLD HARMONY1
"Prayer is an aspiration of the Soul toward the
Divine. It may also be a reqtiest, not for creature
comforts or physical things, but for spiritual food,
love, light, courage, protection and help. In fact,
prayer creates a magnetic line of force which unites
you with the supply... The repetition of this
prayer is like a projectile fired through the earth's
atmosphere creating a passage through which the
One Life must necessarily flow."
Tue Voice of ins, Curtiss, 347, 343.
"Men's hearts failing them for fear, and for
looldng after those things which are coming on the
earth.... And when these things begin to come
to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads; for
your redemption draweth nigh."
St. Luke, xxi, 26, 28.
Overhanging Clouds:
The remarkable and world-wide acclaim and
favorable response which has been accorded to
President Roosevelt's recent "Three Point
Peace Plan," even by Herr Hitler, the Dictator
of Germany, is a splendidly encouraging sign
1Released in June 1933.
141
142 ThE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
that the fifty-four nations to whom it was sent
really desire permanent peace. The construc-
tive currents of international harmony thus
generated and the prospect that the United
States will end its traditional policy of isolation,
will do much to draw the nations closer together
and help to neutralize the selfish and antago-
nistic currents formerly generated by intense
nationalism. But there is still a tremendous
amount of old Karma that was nõt worked out
and adjusted by the World War and subse-
quent events. It is this tremendous black cloud
of Karma which is hanging over mankind
which we are so anxious to see dissipated before
it i precipitated into physical expression.
A Call to Prayer:
The favorable response to President Roose-
velt's proposals offers an open door through
which the leaders and also the hearts of the
nations can be reached. We therefore earnestly
ask that the wave of international amity thus
begun shall be reinforced, maintained continu-
ously and expanded by our students through-
out the worldfor above all others they should
be able to grasp the vital significance of the op-
portunity and understand the power of organ-
PRAYER FOR WORLD HARMONY 143
ized prayeragain taking up The Prayer for
World Harmony whose repetition proved so
effective in former years (1917 and 1922), and
repeating it daily during their periods of medi-
tation. For this is necessary if we desire the
present wave of peace and international amity
to be more than temporary, and if we are to
prevent the karinic storm clouds now hovering
over manldnd from being precipitated upon the
earth plane.
Destruction Menaces:
As the Master told us some time ago:1 "The
time has come when the power of cooperation
and harmony among nations; when real Broth-
erhood and Divine Love must and shall rule and
the mind and its ambitions shall obey; when
Divine Love shall be dominant; when the il-
lumined mind shall be Its servant and eager to
do Its wilL The powers of destruction are pre-
paring to manifest in a tremendous way on the
Earth's surface. Therefore, special efforts
must be put forth to radiate Peace, Harmony
and Brotherhood in such floods of radiant en-
ergy that it shall neutralize the evil and mini-
mize the destructive character of the coming
Coming World Cha,,ge, Curtiss, 108418.
144 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
changes. If this great lesson can be really
learned and manifested and put into daily prac-
tice by even a small portion of humanity, the
whole world can pass through the coming great
crossing over the Earth's forces and really en-
ter the Aquarian Age quickly and without one-
half the catastrophes and destruction that will
be absolutely necessary if this great lesson re-
mains unlearned.
Power of Conscious Prayer:
"With the thought dearly held in mind that
these days shall be shortened we can work to-
ward that definite end. Realize that prayers
thus consciously and understandingly used are
not mere sequences of pious words, but are a
definite means of invoking Spiritual Fire and
providing channels through which it can mani-
fest in humanity.... No need to ask God to
save humanity from the results of its own crc-
ating. It is humanity itself that must save itself
through the manifestation of its God-pourers
which are always ready at hand to be invoked
and used by those who will make the effort, else
humanity could never gain self-mastery....
Conditions never right themselves, they are
righted only through the definite constructive
PRAYER FOR WORLD HARMONY 145
action of certain persons or groups of persons
who understand and unite to work wisely to-
ward definite ends.
Positive Effort Needed:
"The whole world is today passing through a
dense smothering cloud of karmic dust which
has accumulated through the ages of wrong
thinking and acting, wrong conceptions of the
Law of Life. And, alas, many are letting this
dust so blind the eyes of their understanding
that they believe that only through extreme
selfishness, retaliation and revenge can they end
their injustice and suffering and let peace,
brotherhood, justice and prosperity reign. This
idea is being so systematically propagated
among the unthinldng masses that unless some
positive effort is made by those who know the
Law of Life--harmony and cooperationthose
who seeand feel and know that all such separa-
tive and destructive ideas will only result in a
prolongation of the same conditions from which
minkind has suffered so long, together with all
those who desire better conditions, all united in
a persistent effort to make a firm stand on the
principles of harmony and interdependence,
which we see exemplified among the various
146 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
organs of our bodies, the world is destined to
rehearse once more1 the terrible drama of de-
struction, death and suffering unspeakable
which it has already passed through in so many
previous cyclic periods of revolution inaugu-
rated in the name of freedom and reform.
The First to Help:
"The first to work definitely with the Spirit-
ual Powers which are seeking to lift up the gates
of ignorance and inculcate the constructive prin-
ciples of the Law of Life should be those ad-
vanced students whose consciousness can grasp
and realize this Law and its applications, as
they have been set forth in our Cosmic Soul
Science in the wide scope and variety of our
philosophical and spiritual books and teach-
ings.
Combat Wrong Principles:
"Firstly, we must systematically spread the
idea that it is wrong principles and rules of life
we are to combat, not persons or peoples or
races. . . We must also continually spread
the idea that force, coercion, revenge, hatred,
cruelty, even the repetition of and clinging to
1This prophecy is now fulfilled in 1939.
PRAYER FOR WORLD HARMONY 147
the memory of wrong: we have suffered, are
destructive forces which can only add to and
never heal the wounds from which all the world
is groaning today...
Prayer an Innate Instinct:
'Prayer is an innate instinct in the human
Soul, and common alike to the savage and the
most cultured and intellectual of mankind. It
is, therefore, as natural for man to prayespe-
daily in times of crisis which transcend the
power of man to cope withas to breathe or
think.
Not Selfish Prayer:
"In this case we are asking our readers to
unite in prayer, not because they have been
frightened at the prospect. . . not to save
their own lives or even their own Souls, but to
help generate such a constructive spiritual
power as will counteract the evil and destruc-
tive forces and thus help to save humanity from
the suffering through which it must pass if the
destructive forces are not neutralized.
Currents Generated:
"The uniting of thousands of hearts and
minds to this definite end should generate a
148 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
great current of dynamic spiritual force sweep-
ing continuously around the worldfor it is
noon somewhere every minute of the day
which like a refreshing breeze should cool the
heat of conflicting interests and blow off the
karmic dust of the past which is settling upon
and blinding individuals and nations to the Law
of Lifeharmony and cooperation. Thus
shall we be of practical psychological help in
opening wide "the everlasting doors" and pre-
paring for the quick coming of the King of
Glory, not only into our own hearts and lives,
but into the lives of nations and humanity as a
whole.
Unite on Principles:
"Remember that the battle which is still rag-
ing in the world is a battle of principles, and that
the Law of Life must ultimately prevaiL But
it will prevail only after terrible calamities and
renewed suffering to individuals, classes and
nations unless they unite to lift up their gates
and permit the King of Glory to come in and
help them transmute the clouds of karmic dust
and inharmony into peace, brotherhood and co-
operation. Only as men open their hearts to
Him can He enter in and bring true peace.
PRAYER FOR WORLD HARMONY 149
Visualize the Radiance:
"See the radiance which this Prayer invokes,
dispelling the clouds of inharmony as the Sun
dispels the fog, and stimulating the growth of
the good in each heart as the Sun stimulates the
growth of the sprout when the fog has been
dispelled and the Sun can carry on its construc-
tive work.
Prayer for World Harmony
Glory and honor and worship be unto Thee, 0
Lord Christ, Thou who art the Life and Light
of all mankind!
Thou are the King of Glory, to whom all the
peoples of the Earth should give joyfid alle-
giance and service.
Inspire mankind with a realization of true
Brotherhood.
Teach us the wisdom of peace, harmony and
cooperation.
Breathe into our hearts the understanding
that only as we see ourselves as parts of the one
body of humanity can peace, harmony, success
and plenty descend upon us.
Help us to conquer all manifestations of in-
harmony and evil in ourselves and in the world.
150 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
May all persons and classes and nations cease
their conflicts, and unselfishly strive for peace
and good-will, that the days of tribulation may
be shortened.
Bless us all with the Radiance of Thy divine
Love and'Wisdom, that we may ever worship
Thee in the beauty of holiness.
In the name of the Living Christ we ask it.
Amen.
The Day of Preparation:
"This is the day given you to prepare. Cry
it from the housetops to those who know and
can understand. The Day is at hand. Shall it
be a day of great peace, of wonderful illumi-
nation? A majority of Christ-illumined ones?
Or shall it be another cycle of darkness more
terrible than any that has passed into the
world's history? For much has been given to
mankind and much will be required. Even to
the worldly ones much has been given: great
understanding has been poured forth. Out of
mighty tribulation much is sensed and compre-
hended, hence much is required....
A Cycle of Darkness:
"If this generation failr, then the whole
system must pass once more down into the
PRAYER FOR WORLD HARMONY 151
darkness from which it has so laboriously
emerged. A blank ignorance will oppress hu-
manity. Cruelty and a deliberate turning from
the Light will wipe out all that civilization has
attained. Chaos will reign among people. Art
and literature will be destroyed and forgotten.
Great inventions that are only waiting for
proper conditions to come forth for the benefit
of humanity will be smotherçd in birth.
Look and Decide:
"Look on the two pictures and decide where
you stand. It is as though you were called to
follow the colors. What will you do to help
save civilization? Remember it is not yourself
that you must help save, but our Christian
civilization.
Worry, and Pear Retard:
"Worry and fear only add to the world's
misery, while every happy, courageous heart
sows seeds of happiness and trust and courage
in the hearts of others. Those who elect to
help shorten these days should send out their
aspiration, love and compassion in constant
prayer, that it may dispell men's fears and teach
them to trust utterly in God's guidance.
152 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
Cooperate in Prayer:
"Therefore, we ask all who will to use some
such prayer as our Prayer for World Harmony
morning, noon and night, and spread this idea
as widely as possible that its vibrations may
affect and inspire the hearts of mankind, and
particularly the leaders of nations. The use of
this Prayer or mantram will not only have a
psychological effect, according to the mental and
spiritual force we put into it, but it will also
form an avenue in the body of humanity for the
manifestation of the hierarchies of Divine Ones
who have charge of the ushering in of the com-
ing New Age through which They can reach
the minds and hearts of men.
Not Vain Repetition:
"Remember that it is not merely repeating the
words that brings the power, but repeating them
with all the aspiration and spiritual power im-
planted in us by the Eternal Being in the begin-
ning. It is not lip-service the Holy Ones ask of
us, but sincere effort and understanding prayer.
Meditate and Visualize:
"Pause after each sentence and meditate upon
it, visualizing its radiance going out to all man-
PRAYER FOR WORLD HARMONY 153
kind, consuming all evil and stimulating all
good. For it is only through softening the
hearts of mankind, through the spread of the
warmth of Divine Love and the power of the
Living Christ, that the evil can be overcome and
these days can be shortened."
Watch and Expect Results:
"Watch for the beginning of the changes.
Watch and wait and believe in the power of the
Christ. Be undaunted and true of heart. Be
strong and loving and faithful, not weak,
fearful and vacillating. Be not turned aside
by earthly and materialistic conceptions of
the Law of Life. Bow not the knee to Baal, but
stand firm and apart in the Temple of Silence'
and recognize your great opportunities to
spread the Light of Truth. Be not dismayed at
any trial or disaster.
Rest in Confidence:
"Rest in peace and blessing while opposition
threatens you and cries out curses upon God and
man. Pray for peace and plenty while famine
stalks through the land. Pray for peace and
stability while nations clash and continents dis-
'details see The Temble of Silence. Curtiss.
154 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
appear. For lo, the time is at hand when all
that has been foretold shall shortly come to pass.
Be ye therefore prepared. Be ye planted in the
courtyard of the Temple of the Living God.
Let none of these things aff right or move you.
Let not your hearts be troubled. Recognize
your oneness with the Divine, "and lo, I am
with you always, even unto the end of the world.
Amen"
Will You Enlist?
"Will you enlist in this great undertaking?
Will you devote your life, your love, your under-
standing, your all, to the solving of the greatest
problem humanity has ever faced? to bring
peace and harmony and co-operation out of the
present-day confusion, unbrotherliness and
war, that the one Divine Light may shine forth
and illumine the hearts of all mankind?
CHAPTER X
THE SYMBOLOGY OF THE
STARS AND STRIPES
Symbol of Attainment:
A national flag not only symbolically em-
bodies the highest ideals of the people over
whom it flies, but it also symbolizes the highest
attainment and ultimate perfection of that peo-
pie.
Our Key-note:
The flag of the United States of America
symbolizes and foreshadows the greatest possi-
bilities of any flag ever designed. Although
there are many flags having the same colors, yet
in none are they combined in a like manner.
The colors of a flag are like the letters spelling
a word or the notes of music forming a melody.
Therefore the flag of each nation proclaims its
word and sounds its key-note, hence rallies to
it the elemental powers and forces belonging to
its color and symbols.
's.c
156 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
Meaning of Red:
In our flag the red symbolizes the blood or
life-force, the martial force, its dear bright
shade representing all the higher possibilities of
the courage, energy and power of Mars, the
masculine force in the solar system and in hu-
manity, as well as the intensity of love that will
fight for principle.
Force of Mars:
The red of Mars is alternated at equal inter-
vals with the white of purity, sanity, righteous-
ness, justice and brotherhood. This proclaims
to the world that we will fight if we have to, not
because we seek to spill our brother's blood or
for aggrandizement, but for righteousness,
justice, freedom and liberty. For these must be
maintained by the force of Mars if necessary,
else our flag is unbalanced and the principles
for which it stands are betrayed. But we
should let the white so blend with the red that
it will color into the light rose pink of love.
Balance:
It also indicates that war is not the governing
spirit, but is blended and balanced in equal pro-
STARS AND STRIPES 157
portion with the desire for peace honorably won
and maintained by the higher aspects of Mars.
Meaning of Blue:
Blue is the color of the Great Mother-force,
the power which brings forth and which cher-
ishes all that is beautiful and lovable, as well
as those things which the force of Mars ener-
gizes. In other words, it represents the force of
Venus or Divine Mother-love.
Our Arrangement:
No other flag has the arrangement of these
two colors as found in our flag. Others have
the blue, but not in one great mass like a sea
of color on which the five-pointed stars are
arranged side by side in harmonious order.
Power of White:
And because the white and the red are co-
equal, our victories must be won as much by
the powers of the white as those of the red. If
there were a large field of white it would tend
to symbolize peace at any price, but since it is
equally balanced by the red it symbolizes peace,
but peace attained and maintained if necessary
by righteous war.
158 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
White Stars:
Since the five-pointed star symbolizes man,'
the white stars, 1. e., the purified men and
women, set in their field of blue symbolize the
gathering together of all humanity into the lap
of the Great Mother. They stand for the united
brotherhood which holds out its arms to all man-
kind to come and become one of US. And if
they come in love and harmony and are willing
to rest in the lap of their adopted mother, each
in his proper place and ready to obey her de-
crees, laws and requirements, they are welcome.
But if they cannot take their places thus on the
field of blue, the flag has no place for them.
The Flag Proebiims:
In its emblem this country thus proclaims to
the world that is has conceived and set before
its children the high ideal and glorious oppor-
tunity of becoming the leader in liberty and
and freedom in that it offers freely a home for
all God's children, a country in which to found
the New Humanity. The responsibility is great.
Will we as a nation live up to it? Or through
carelessness will we allow subversive activities
to flourish?
1 explanation see The Key to the Universe, Curtiss. 181.
STARS AND STRIPES 159
Our Pledge:
Each one of us should be glad that we have a
flag with such a wonderful meaning, and each
should study its higher, esoteric symbology;
for it enables each one to say, "I belong to a
new country and a new people. I will do
all I can to make this country and this peo-
ple all that our flag symbolizes. I will do
my duty in all ways to keep the flag waving over
this country, and also over the whole world in
the sense of upholding the highest ideals of
freedom, justice, righteousness and brother-
hood."
Patriotism:
This subject would not be complete were we
to omit a word on the subject of patriotism, a
subject so blatantly proclaimed by many with
little realization of its inner meaning, and by
othersespecially a certain dass of would-be
students who measure everyone's corn in their
own meager basketis decried and scornfully
relegated to the scrap-heap of outgrown and
provincial ideas, good only for children to amuse
themselves with, or who cannot grasp what
they think to be the greater idea of internation-
alism.
160 THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
Our Nation:
But since no man can live unto himself alone,
any more than a Soul can be incarnate without
the aid of physical parents, and since no nation
can rise above the highest ideas the majority
can grasp, the nation of our adoptionwhether
of our birth or notin which we think, act,
strive and develop, in the deeper sense is in-
deed our "pater" (father) to whom we owe our
patriotism.
You Owe Allegiance:
And since every thought, act and endeavor
of ours has sprung up in and helped to create
the nation, not only are we subject to it and owe
it allegiance, but we have become so inextricably
woven into its national karma that failure to
give it our best and to make every sacrifice for
it is to be a double traitor, a traitor to our own
ideals and a traitor to the country which we
have helped to make what it is; for its failure is
our failure, its high station our triumph and
and pride.
Sophistry:
Hence to say, as some of the surface thinkers
do, that they owe no allegiance to their flag or
STARS AND STRIPES 161
country; that one country and one flag is as
good for them as another, since all are one, and
their allegiance is to the brotherhood of man
and to the inner command of the Spirit which
alone they will recognize any obligation to, all
such talk we say is but to proclaim their own
shallowness and ignorance and lack of real de-
velopment, and to blind themselves with soph-
istry.
Symbol of Ideals:
For the flag of the nation to which we
have given our allegiance, our deepest thoughts
and our highest ideals, and from the united
thought-force of whose children we have gained
our strength and success, is a symbol not alone
of that nation, but a symbol as well of every-
thing to which we have attained or striven, be-
cause the laws and conditions established by the
nation to which that flag belongs are the step-
ping-stones upon which our own development
has risen, the very incentives to our advance.
A
Adjustment, Law of, 94.
Age, Aquarian, 33, 47; of
Brotherhood, 21; Golden, 31,
94; New, 40-5; Piscean,21;
Woman's, 33.
Agnosticism, 26.
Alcyone, 109.
Allegiance1 You owe, 160-1.
Allegories, 18.
Allies, interests of, 54; prayer
for, 125, 140; tests of, 56.
America, 22,30,43,140,155.
Andromeda, 109.
Angels, guardian, 93; of pres-
ence, 69, 70; song of, 61-2,
72.
Antagonism, radiates, 11.
Anti-Christ, 2,3, 8,9, 10, 108.
Aquarius, Sign of, 43.
Arbitrator, Man the, 84-7.
Atheism, 2.
Atlanteans, 90, 101.
Atlantis, sinking of, 101.
Atoms, sloughed off, 19.
Aura, opening in, 120.
Australia, 24
Avatar, the coming, 39,118.
B
Babe, within, 72.
Banner, Thy, 12.
INDEX
163
Baptism, of blood, 22; of fire,
110.
Battle, astral, 105, 110; final,
106.
Beast, the, 111.
Being, no arbitrary, 15.
Blood, baptism of, 22; of the
Lamb, 47.
Blow-torch, prayer like a, 15.
Blue, meaning of, 157.
Body, spiritual, 47.
Bh 1.
Borgias, 99.
Bread, His, 45; of Life, 49.
Breath, of Life, 81.
Broadcast, forces are, 11.
Brotherhood, test of, 34.
C
Cataclysms, of illness, 42;
world, 100, 106.
Chaos, possible, 157.
Chasteneth, He, 85.
Children, effect on, 71-2.
Church, Christian, 42.
Civilization, advanced, 46; An-
gel of, 69; definition of, 2;
harmony needed, 70; the
new, 131; test of, 33-4-5.
Communists, 3.
Compensation, spiritual, 116
118.
Concentration, 14.
164 INDEX
Condemn, none, 13.
Conditions, stable needed, 7.
Conrad, of Marburg, 104.
Consciousness, shell of, 40;
spiritual, 87.
Co-operation, needed, 138.
Corridor, Polish, 1.
Corruption, sown in, 47.
Craving, Soul, 34.
Creations, of man, &
Creator, the reaps, 7.
Cup, His, 45.
Curses, man's, 85; removed,
88.
Cycles, close, 21.
Czarism, 30.
D
Danzig, 1.
Darkness, cycle of, 150; pow-
ers of, 9, 133.
Day-periods, 59.
Democracies, ideals of, 2.
Desire, King, 91, 112.
Despise, none, 13.
Despotism, 2,3.
Destiny, man's, 73.
Destroyer, planet, 108.
Devil, the, 111.
Disasters, coming, 106.
Diseases, malignant, 63; world,
64.
Dragon, the1 21, 66 80, 111.
Duty, your, 12.
Dweller, the, 93,108, 111.
Dying, in hatred, 120.
E
Elect, the, 38, 129, 132.
Emotions, control, 120; radi-
ate. 11: war of. 92.
England, 24.
Entities, astral, 99, 100.
Epidemics, moral, 114.
Europe, a focal point, 103.
Evil, hattie of, 101; good
from, 54; precipitated, 22;
transmute, 114.
F
Factor, you are a, 14, 15.
Fathers, Lunar, 80-1-9; So-
lar, 80-1.
Fear, cast out, 4, 151.
Federation, of nations 32,
116-18.
Fire, baptism of, 110; spirit-
ual, 15.
Flag, ideals of our, 161; pro-
claims, 158.
Flame, Divine, 110.
Flattery, 99; 105.
Foundation, Universal Reli-
gious, 1, 125.
France, 23.
Freedom, spiritual, 1,3.
Free-will, 7.
-
G
Generation, if fails, 151.
Germans, misled, 3; people,
the, 1, 27, 55, 134; revolu-
tion, 4.
Germany, 26-7, 134-5.
Glory, King of, 148.
God, mills of the, 39, 41; So-
lar, 1OL
God, Sons of, 101.
Government, Super, 119.
Grain, spiritual, 49.
Guidance, Divine, 91.
H
Halifax, disaster of, 53.
Hand, time is at, 98.
Harmony, individual, 10; law
of, 22.
Harvard, observatory, 108.
Hate, do not, 3; dying in,
120.
Healing, real, 19.
Hellos, 80.
Hell, created, 89.
Hercules, 80.
Hermes, 75.
Herod, 60.
Hitler, 1, 28-9, 103, 141.
Horns, 80.
Hosts, of the Lord, 122.
Humanity, save, 15; the new,
107.
I
Ideal, 21.
Ideologies, war of, 37.
Ignorance, 8,80.
Illness, cataclysms of, 92.
License, 14.
Inbarmony, creates, 11, 12.
Initiation, 93.
Injustice, 56.
Inquisition, 42, 104-5, 131.
Inspiration, 121.
Instruments, human, 99.
Intellect, 87.
Intuition, 83-7.
Irritation, greater now, 10.
Israel, 60.
J
Jerusalem, the new, 49, 50.
Jesus, name of, 135-6.
INDEX 165
K
Kaiser, 28-9, 103.
Karma, in Bible, 45-6; is re-
adjustment, 44, 94, 105, 115;
Lords of, 51-3; of all, 37,
142; of Church, 103; race,
102-7; of Russia, 29; un-
redeemed, 99; world, na-
tional, personal, 52.
Kingdoms, lower, 85.
L
Lamb, blood of the, 47.
Lancet, war a, 19.
Law, Divine, &
Leaders, deluded, 103; egotis-
tical, 100; ideals of, 8.
Lcmuria, 107.
Life, law of, 145-6-8, 153;
waters of, 47.
Light, the, 20.
Lincoln, ideals of. 128.
Lodge, Great White, 123.
Lord, army of the, 124.
Lucifer, 66-8.
M
Magie, black and white, 101.
Man, brotherhood of, 21; sign
of the Son of, 41-3.
Mama, 84.
Manifestation, basis of, 37.
Marburg, Conrad, 104.
Mars, 156.
Masses, express, 13.
Masters, 98, 123, 135.
Matter, and Spirit, 78.
Mercury, 48.
Michael, 66.
Militarism, 80, 117.
Mill, of Gods. 39. 41.
166 INDEX
Mind, higher, 84-88; sons of,
81.
Mistakes, man's, 59.
Money-power, 111.
Moon, gods, 89.
Moral; loss of, 5, 12, 135.
Moses, 90-1.
Myth, the sun, 79, 91.
N
Nationalism, 64.
Nations, Federation of, 32,
116-17-18; sick, 19; Sla-
yonic, 35.
Nero, 99.
New Jerusalem, the, SI.
Neutrality, 3.
0
Observatory, 108.
Obsessed, 4.
Ones, great, 51.
Operation, needed, 65.
Organization, power of, 123.
P
Pacifist, 68.
Paganism, 10.
Pater, 160.
Patriotism, 159.
Peace, centers of, 4, 121;
Chapter V, 57, 68; descends,
60; God's plan. 7; pray for,
254.
Penn, William, 43.
Personality, husks of, 41.
Phagocytes, 114.
Pharoab, 91.
Pisces, age of, 2L
Pity, 3, 131.
Plan, God's, 7, 40, 73; grand,
8. 58.
Planet, dark, 108; destroyer,
108; redeemer, 109.
Poise, battles for, 19, 140.
Poland, 1.
Powers, of darkness, 9; role
of, 62.
Pray, how to, 16, 17.
Prayer, for allies, 126, 140;
call to, 137; is instinctive,
147; for Germany, 133;
mass, 126; noon, 13, 16, 137;
power of, 4, 13, 116, 126,
137, 144, 152; stop war, 12;
world harmony, 141-3-9;
world peace, 16.
Principalities, of air, 9.
Principles, wrong, 13, 148.
Propaganda, 9.
Prophet, the false, ill
Psychology, law of, 20.
Python, 80.
Q
Quotations from:
Campbell, Dr., 108.
Coming World Changes, 14,
143.
I Corinthians, &
The Eucharist, 42-5.
Genesis, 81-S.
The Great Migration, 91.
The Inner Radiance, 91.
Jeremiah, 6,97-8-9.
The Key to the Universe, 59.
105, 157.
Letters from the Teacher, vol.
i, 125.
Levi, Eliphas, 89.
Magic, Transcendental, 18.
The Message of Aquaria, 41,
51
Micah, 57.
Realms of the Living Dead,
111, 120.
Revelation, 97.
St. James, 125.
St. Luke, 6, 141.
St. Matthew, 113, 125.
The Secret Doctrine, 75-6-8,
90, 101
The Sign Aquarius, 22, 31, 4&
The Temple of Silence, 153.
The Universal Sun Myth, 79.
The Voice of Isis, 25, 67, 81-
6, 95, 102-7, 123, 141.
The Voice of the Silence, 114.
Why Are We Here?, 33, 57.
The Zohar, 76.
R
Race, 4th, 101; 5th, 102-5; 6th,
107.
Rama, 101.
Ramayana, 101.
Rasputin, 9.
Ravana, 90, 101.
Ray, of Spirit, 16. 81-2-4.
Reactions, control, 11.
Reckoning, day of, 127.
Red, meaning of, 156.
Redemption, 86-7.
Resistance, Principle of,
Chapt. vi, 75-7; cease to
the Divine, 22, 62.
Respond, gladly, 30; refuse to,
21.
Responsibility, man's, 7,11,12.
Revolt, mental, 36.
Revolution, 4.
Rights, bill of, 119.
Roosevelt, President, 141-3.
Russia. 9. 25-9.
INDEX 167
S
Sacrifice, 3.
Sanctuaries, 51.
Satan, 66
Saturn, 46-7-8; 67-9.
St. George, 21.
St. Gregory, 75.
St Paul, 83.
Self-chosen, ones, 99.
Self-determination, 1.
Science, Cosmic Soul, 75.
Sick nations are, 19, 64.
Sign, of Aquarius, 43; of the
Son of Man, 41.
Six, number, 105.
Slackers, 131.
Smile, 12.
Song, angels', 61.
Soul, craving, 34.
Stability, essential, 6.
Stars, white, 157.
Stars and Stripes, 155.
Sun-gods, 89.
Sun Myth, 79.
Symbols, materialized, 42-5.
Sympathy, heart, 129.
Sword, perish by the, 113.
T
Teacher, the Great, 39, 40.
Tester, Saturn the, 67.
Tests, 33-4-5-8; 4&
Thinking, spiritual, 90; wrong,
43.
Thought, forces, neutralize, 12,
14, 114.
Thoughts, are things, 11; car-
nal, 115; control, 114; fruit
of, 98; power of, 61; vital-
ized, 121; wIll express, 30.
Tolerance, 37.
168 INDEX
world, 8, 107; object of, 1;
Mahabharatan, 90; stopped
by, 4; uselessness of, 118;
why, Chapt. lii, 3, 18; why
permitted, 18.
War, "the", Chapt. vi, 75; as-
hal, 105, 110, 140; cause of,
7.
Water, of life, 47.
Wealth, role of, 62.
Weapons, carnal, 113.
White, meaning of, 157.
Will, Divine, 8,21,63,116-18;
not the Father's, 7, 116.
Winds, North, 54; the four,
47, 53.
Woman, position of, 34; work
of, 65, 70.
Traitor, 160.
Transmute, 93.
Tribulation, days of, 139.
U
Unselfishness, war develops,
32.
V
Venus, 48, 157.
Visualize, 153.
w
War, aspects of, Chapt. iv, 32;
a shock, 60; causes of, 8, 9;
cosmic 79; in heaven, 66,
79; last stopped, 12; last
Cosmic Soul Science
A non-sectarian spiritual movement for the promulgation
of a Cosmic and all-indusive spiritual philosophy which
gives a satisfactory and scientific explanation of every
phase and condition of life both here and hereafter.
Christian in ethics, yet non-sectarian and universaL
Monthly lessons and personal correspondence on all vital
problems sent on the free-will offering basis.
If the teachings presented in this volume have interested
and helped you, send for a descriptive pamphlet of our
correspondence cqurse.
F. HOMER CURTISS, B.S., M.D.
3510 Quebec Street, N. W., Washington, I). C.
"THE CURTISS BOOKS"
These books present the philosophy of Christian Psychology and
Mysticism in plain, comprehensible tenns and applied to the daily
life. Not niere theory and metapbj'aical speculation, but a definite
and comprehensible philosophy of life and Soul-growth, tested
through years of experience, which includes a rational explanation
of all forms of mysticism and Biblical Occultism, as well as the
vital and complex problems of modern life and all after-death con-
ditions.
There are perhaps no books on the market to-day which so liii-
LU the needs of the awakened Soul who is seeking to know and
understand bow to apply the universal laws of the spiritual life
under present and coming world conditions. While philosophical
and comprehensive in their scope, they also answer the heart-cry
for love, light and life.
Just the books to place in the bands of a friend who is out.
growing former Lnutations of thought and old conceptions. Qiris-
tian in their ethics, yet non-sectarian, cosmic and universal.
Send for Descriptive Catalog.
THE CURTISS PIIILOSOPLHC BOOK Co.
3510 Quebec St., N. W., Wasbington, D. C.
I
"The Curtiss Books" Dispel the MIStS From Mysticism
The VOICE OF ISIS
A TEXT BOOK OF THE SPIRITUAL LIFE
A Veritable Compendium of Christian Psychology, Spiritual
Philosophy and Esoteric Biblical Interpretation
Not cold, intellectual essays, but vibrant with sympathy, understand-
big and comfort for those facing life's trials and problems, explaining
the reasons therefor and how to master them. Radiant with practical
help. Takes fear out of the Bible.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
Life's Duties and How to Recognize and Accomplish ThemThe
Cycle of Fiilfiflmpnt. The European War Foreshadowed and Causes
Given Two Years Before It BeganDegrees and Orders, and the
Celestial HierarchiesThe Wisdom ReligionConcerning the Doctrine
of Hell Fire, Takes Fear Out of the BibleThe Eleventh Command-
mentNarcotics, Alcohol and PsychisinA Study of KarmaThe
SelfThe Doctrine of Avatara. A Clear Explanation of the Laws
Under Which the Christ May Be Expected to Manifest on Earth in
This Age, exposes the mistake of the many rb.imants..A Study of
ReincarnationThe Seven Powers of ManA Brief Outline of Evo-
lotion, both Man and NatureThe Sevenfold LawThe Formation
of World ChainsPurity, and the problem of sexThe Origin of Man,
a clear explanation which reconciles Fundamentalists and Liberals
The Symbol of the SerpentPurification vs. DeificationThe Memory
of Past Lives, explains why so many think they have been great per-
sonages in the pastThe Cycle of NecessityThe Path of Attainment
Earth's Finer ForcesThe Descent of the LightThe Two Tables of
Stone, or Woman's True Place and Mission in LifeThe H1iig
Prayer, and how to use itHow to Enter the SilenceNature's Mystic
Alphabet. A Study of tire Relation of Sound, Number, Color and
FormThe Word Made FleshfliuminationThe Symbol of the Salt
Thou Shalt Not Kill, Covering the Whole Problem of Meat Eating
The Prayer of ConsecrationThe Meaning of the Symbol of the
Order.
!'The Curtiss Books" Help You to Help Yourself
The VOICE OF ISIS
APPRECIATIONS
"Here we have a wise book."Portland Oregonian.
"Is the most valuable, yes, the most practical of any that has come
waler the observation of the reviewer."Joliet News.
"A marvel of erudition. Practical instruction accompanies weU reasoned
theory at every turn."TIse Occult Review, London.
"Reveals with wonderful simplicity, directness and convincing force,
Christianity as perceived by the light of the Secret Wisdom."Azoth
Magazine, New York.
'It is indeed an epoch-making volume and almost every subject of
importance is treated .. . and elucidated beautifufly. Verily those who
accept the authors' interpretations . . . will be students of Universal
Religion."Kalpaka Magazine. India.
"High ideals are given upon sex and generation, and the book Is
permeated with a large tolerance and loving service towards advancing
humanity."The Master Mind, Los Angeles.
"It is the practical problems of life. . . that constitute Its inc and
comni'nd it to every earnest student."The Public, Chfrgo.
"Altogether, this is a book rich In thought and suggestlon."The
American Theosophist.
"It contains truth of the highest spiritual order which the student of
Truth may readily lay hold upon."Unity, Eansas City.
"Not only has the book very favorably impressed me through its
common sense way of treating subjects on which occultists sometimes
go wild, but I have almost invariably heard the same expression of
opinion from others who have read it."Editor The 0. B. Library Critic,
Washington.
"Undoubtedly the best that has appeared for some time. . . written
In a style both simple and scholarly."Newport Plain Talk.
"'The greatest book since The Secret Doctzine."J. B.
"'The gist and only book that gives me a feeling of complete satis-
faction as I read."--Mrs. S. S. B.
"I keep it close and read it as some do their Blhles"Mrs. C. W.
"For me, your book Is the most Inclusive, popular, comprehensive,
sane and balanced, and saturated with that wonderful and helpful
essence of understanding, sympathy and love, which makes your book
a living friend. Your spiritual psychology is unique! It has opened my
eyes."P. R. German edition, $3O
Thirteenth Edition, 433 Pages, FÅtzborate Index. Price, $L5')
German Edition. $3.00
"The Curtiss Books" Explain the Second Coming
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
Not a seciuel to The Voice of Isis, but rather a response to the
urgent call for further and more advanced instruction concerning the
great unrest in world conditions, and their solution.
Also contains a reasonable and scientific explanation of how and
when and to whom the Son of Man will appear at the Second Coining.
The only satisfactory exposition of this subject.
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
The Mystic Lifein nature, so in manbow to react to stimuli from
the inner world as we now react to the outerThe Sign Aquarius
doctrine of cycles and agesthe Sign of the Son of Man in heaven.
Are These the Last Dayscycles of Races and sub-races--meaning of
"the end of the world."Comets and Eclipseshow cosmic changes
affect the Earththe Sun-spot cycle and its effectHalley's comet
ushered in Aquarian AgeThe Law of Growthhow the ideal snani-
fests through the Law of Growththe dynaspheric force.Birth of
the New Agethe Water Bearerembodiment of the Christills
teachings.Jacob and Eroumeaning of the trickeryof Jacob's twelve
sonssymbology of the Stars and Stripesis America the seat of
the new race?Masteiy and the Mastersmeaning of mastery and
how attainedfeminine Mastersthe Great White I.odge.Mother
Earth-her alchemyher seven layersorigin of insect pests and plant
blightseffect of blood shed on battlefieldsThe Pour Windsuse of
in the Biblecoming cataclysinsThe Three JohnsJohn the Bap-
tist, John the Beloved, John the Revelator.Childrea of the House-
holdthe Prayer for Demonstrationprotection from astral forces.
astral chillastral diseaseschild trainingattaining material supply
Man, Know Thyselfdivisions of manlaws of mindconcentration
on the solar plexustraining the subconscious mindthe superconsdous
symbol of the carpenterof Herodthe cruciflxion.Orderly Sequence
effect of order and disorderThe Spiral of Lifereason for changes
in lifeuse of the Masters' names.Lifa Waveslaw of wave-motion
rhythm of the breathtidal wavesstorms of emotionmagnetic
variations of the EarthMessage of the Sphinxmeaning of the
scaraborigin of the Order of Christian Mysticscrypt beneath the
SphinxThe Second Woelength of the four periods of the woe-
faLse prophetsThe Day of Judgmentsigns of His comingLaw of
Sacrifice--sacrifice of the Sun in Naturevalue of talismansvalue
of sacriflceThe Sheep and the Goatstheir symbologythe "other
sbeep"The Mystic Oakorigin and function of the dancerbythmic
motion in religious servicessymbology of Circle and Sun dances
origin of bonfires and the MaypoleDryads and Naiads.The Din-
,no,sd Heartformation of a diamondforces obtained from a dia-
mondTke True Priesthoodmeaning of priest, hierophant, prophet-
Meichisedec and Jesusbow an Avatar manifestsHis near advent-
uarthl Avatars or Aveshas.A New TestamentJesus' new testament
Tke Curtisa Books" Give a New Outlook on LII.
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
syinbology of "the upper chamber"of bloodof the bread and wine.
Crossing Jordanwandering in the wildernessdividing the waters
crossing dry-shodTaking Jeikhosymbology of the rant's horns
why the walls fell The Vain ShowLuciferdistinction between Lud-
fer Satan and the devilUniversal Center of the Solar Schoolthe
Luciferian SchooLFaith and WorksSun Initiation.Marswhy
Mass is redrelation of Mars and Venuswhy the Bible is allegorical.
The Spiritual Birthplace of the spiritual birththe spiritual or
NTI2Tya bodyThe Mighty Angei"this same Jesus shall so come
in like m2nnri"His method of appearanceconditions necessaryhow
to recognize HimThe Soul's Guerdonlesson of each Earth-life-
object of incarnationvalue of ceremonies, observances, diet, etc.the
Lord from heaven.
APPRECIATIONS
"An admirably conceived and well produced volume, which shouM do
much to increase still further the wide circle of students to whom the
Christo-Theosophy of The Order of Christian Mystics makes so strong
an appeaL"The Occult Review. London.
"Have only got about one-fourth through with 'The Message of
Aquaria,' but the book is so good that I want to put one in each of our
public Jibrarics."R. H. W.
"The book makes interesting reading.... These two authors are ap-
parently authorities."Sau Francisco JournaL
"These books are not claptrap utterances of shallow minds; they are
deep and sincere."Oakland Tribune.
"Quite apart from their great message to the world, the amount of
actual knowledge they contain and the extraordinary high standard of
literary finish, together with perfect simplicity of language and style,
make this side of these works (the Curtiss books) without a jarring
not&'A. A. B., London.
"What a tremendous work you have accomplished! How immensely
important! Your works must certainly become more widely known all
over the world! The highest spirituality breathes through every sen
tence. I am amazed at the immense spiritual value I have discovered
and am daily discovering in them. They are Soul-uplifting to an in-
credible degree! How blessed you are to receive these splendors from
the Infinite Consciousness direct! You are two Souls specially favore4
by Heaven! With the greatest esteem and admiration, your friend."-.
Baron Albert Van der Naiileu, author of In the Sanctuary, etc.
Comblete Index. Fifth Edition. Price, $2.50
wlhe Curtiss Books" Explain the Mysteries of Life
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
"This work is not only the most comprehensive and authoritative
book on the significance and sfi,ituoi interpretation of numbers and
symbols, but its 40 chapters contain more new, reliable and spiritually
helpful information on numbers, letters, the Tarot cards, the circle,
triangle, square, pentacle, Seal of Solomon, the Commandments, includ-
ing the esoteric interpretation of many Bible and classic myths hereto-
fore little understood, also Masonic symbols, the Trinity, the RlnIiini,
angels, mythology, evolution, cycles, initiations, etc., than many sep-
arate books on those subjects."Baltimore American. I
Not a dry mathematical treatise, nor mere speculative theories.
Illustrations and confirmations from nature at every turn.
Shows "That all personal experiences are expressions of the one
Great Law manifesting according to mathematical principles, demon-
strating that the unfoldment of the godlike possibilities inherent in each
Soul follows, step by step, the same order of events that is followed
in the Cosmos."
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
The Origin of Numerical Systemsthe Symbol of the Circle, Ser-
pent, Kirk and Churchthe Druids and HyperboreansRound Towers
of IrelandIndians' Use of Feathersthe Circle as the Egg and the
CatOrigin of the Decimal SystemOrigin of the Druid Bonfires
and MaypoleWhy 1 Comes Firstthe Letter AleplèThe Juggler
Origin of Constantine's Symbolthe Magic Wand and CrozierSoul-
marriageKey to the Universal Law of Sexthe Letter Beththe
High PriestessJakin and BoasSolar CrossVeil of Isisthe 3 Great
Star StreamsOrigin of the Triangle and the TrinityDiagram of
Law of Marriage and DivorceTripod of Pythian PriestessNoah and
His SonsProphets in the Fiery FurnacePower of the Spoken Word
"Army of the Voice"The Letter GimelThe EmpressOrigin of
the Square, and Cross, Swastikathe 4 Beaststhe 4 Windsthe 4
Gospelsthe 4 Rivers of Eden-40 Years in the Wilderness-40 Days'
Fastthe 4 Castes of M2nfrmncl..4 Stages of Civllization-4 Forms of
Government, the last of which we are now enteringthe Letter Doletk
The EmperorDifference between Sabbath and SundayRole of
SaturnS Pointed StarBelharzar's VisionClairvoyance Not a 6th
SenseSymbol of the Crocodilethe S Ta1innan of the Slkhs.Anti-
genus' Vision of the PentadeEffect of a Reversed Symbolthe Letter
HiTire PopeOffering Up Isaac-6 Days of Creation-6 Days of
LaborNumber 6 and the Elementalsthe Letter YouThe Mystery
of Creationthe 7 ElobimMusac of the SpheresColors of the Musi-
cal ScaleApollo's Lyrethe Pipes of Panthe number of Gestation
the 7-fold Earth Chainthe 7 Races and Sub-racesthe 7-fold Con-
struction of Manthe 7 Cycles of Lifethe 7-fold Basis of Masonry
Mme. Blavatsky and Number 7the 7 Churches in AsiaNumber 7 in
Revelationthe 7-Pointed StarSeal of SolomonLegend of the Mlna-
tourof Phaetonthe 7 Principles of Man clearly expoundedthe 7
"The Curtiss Books" Renew Faith through Knowledge
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
Pleiades and the 7 RishisMyth of Orionof Niobethe Letter Zak,
The Chariotthe Number of Evolutionthe Octavethe 8th Sphere
the Dweller on the ThresholdValley of the Shadow of Deaththe
Letter HethJusticethe Number of InitiationApollonius of Tyana
MeditationGenii of the HoursHigher InitiationsPlato and Num-
ber 9the 9th Hourthe 9 Musesthe Mystery of Number 9
Symbology of a Ropethe 144,000the Letter TetkThe Hermit
the Number 10the Number of Completionthe Decadthe Sun
Abram and SaraiZodiac Formerly had Only 10 SignsDiagram of
the Group-SoulMeaning of the 10 Lepersthe Letter YodThe
Wheel of Lifethe Joy of CompletionKey-note of CreationGeo-
logic ErasNumber of Completed Earth, Man and Super-man.
APPRECIATIONS
"In this book alt the lore of centuries that has gathered about the
number from 1 through 10 is set forth with a perfect wealth of
detail. . . This book Is easily the most complete and satisfactory
bringing together of information that is scattered in hundreds of vol-
imes not readily accessible."The Boston Post.
"It Is the most fwhifing book I ever read."De Casseres, New
York Sun.
"It certainly makes out a good brief for the signi&ance of num-
bers, and one well supported by mathematics and music... . It con-
tains much besides the ingenious showing of the curious corrcsponðen
of numbezs."Springjleld Republican.
"An elaborate spiritual interpretation of numbers and symbols which
supplements Middle Age deliverances in this field with illustrations
from modern science, and comes near to relegating Pythagoras to the
shelf as a back number. .. . The treatise presents an amount of welt
collected Information which no student of numbers and their form
symbols ran afford to neglect.. The general aim is both ethical and
religious."Boston Herald.
"it is deep and profound. As one goes into this uge of pin-
losophy one becomes vitally interested, and eves awed."Portland
Oregonian.
"The person who has only an amused contempt for this sort of
thing will yet find a gripping interest in contemplating what it has
produced."The San Francisco Chronicle.
"Goes deeply into the philosophy of numbers and should be of
interest to all students of symbolism and Freemasonry.. .. Not a
mathematical dissertation, but replete with occult information."
Masonic New Age Magazine.
"Easily the most complete and satisfactory bnngmg together of
all the lore of centuries that has gathered about numbers
set forth with a perfect wealth of detaiL"Boston Post.
l Profusely illustrated with ten full-page plates, portrait .f Mrs
Curtiss, many diagrams, tables, etc.
Comblete index. Sixth and Revised Edition. Price $2.5(!
"The Curtiss Books" Have Remodeled Men's Lives
The KEY OF DESTINY
A Sequel to The Key to the Universe
This volume presents three revelations of supreme importance, con-
cerning the origin of the Zodiac, the Labors of Hercules, and the
relation of the Sun Myth to the Christian religion.
Why is the Zodiac divided into 12 signs and not some other number?
Why should there be only four elements, earth, air, fire, water? Why
should each have three manifestations in the Zodiac?
All the myths and allegories involving 12, such as Jacob and his 12
sons, also the 12 Disciples of Jesus, and the 12 months of the year,
etc., are all based upon the 12-fold division of the Zodiac. But
nowhere in print have we found any philosophical and scientific rea-
son why the division into 12 was chosen, save in this volume. Truly
a momentous discovery.
Why should the peculiar animals used be applied to the Zodiac when
the forms of the constellations they embrace in no way resemble or
even suggest such animals? The reason is found only in this volume.
Vitally necessary for all students of astrology.
Nowhere in all literature can the interpretation of the 12 Labors
of Hercules be found. In this volume the authors not only give the
interpretation, but connect each labor with its proper zodiacal sign.
This one feature might well form a valuable book in itself.
The universal Sun Myth has been the basis of the life-narrative
of every Sun God or spiritual Light Bearer sent to humanity. This
volume shows that this is more than a myth and why it is a spiritual
reality. These chapters are a direct challenge to the so-called "higher
critics" of the Bible and a complete refutation of their chief claims
against the Bible story. Of great importance to all students of com-
parative religion, to ministers and to Bible students generally.
These are only a few of the many revelations of this truly wonderful
volume.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
Number 11, a New Beginning, the cycle of the advanced Disciple
the Legend of Parsifalthe 11 year Astronomical Cyclethe 11 year
Sun Spot CycleGems and the ZodiacUse of a person's Name-
NumberReincarnation and Transmutationthe Permanent Atom
Physical ImmortalityAttitude for HealingCause of Cancerthe He-
biew Lettersthe 144,000the 11th letter, Kcphdiagrams of the
Cycle of Manifestation.
Number 12, the Manifested UniverseGeometrical Law why the
Zodiac is 12 foldDiagram of Zodiacthe Aquarian AgeWhy were
the disciples called "ushers of Men"?Origin of the 12 TrIbes.-.
12 Stones hem Jordanthe 12 Disciples.-12 Knights of King Arthur
the Last Supperthe 12 Baskets of BreadJesus at 12 yearsWhen
is Incarnation Complete?Incamation in Various SignsMystery of
the Gobi Desert-12 Hebrew Simple Letters-12 Body Saltsjesus, the
Piscean Avatar.
"The Curtiss Books" Satisfy Both Head and Heart
The KEY OF DESTINY
The 12 Labors of HerculesRelation of Hercules and JacobKill.
ng the Nemean LionKilling the HydraCapturing the Keryneian
DoeCapturing the Erymanthian BoarCleaning the Augean Stables
._lCifling the Man-eating Birds of StymphalosCapturing the Cretan
BullCapturing the Man-eating Mares of DiomedesSeizing the
Girdle of HippolyteCapturing the Oxen of Geryoneusthe Three-
headed Hell HoundObtaining the Golden Apples of HesperidcsChange
from 10 sgus to 12Wrestling with AntaiosMysteries of Eleusis.
Number 13Why Considered Unlucky-13 at a dinnerIts Real
SignificanceThe Savior GodMystical Meaning of the BibleHigher
Critics refutedthe Life of JesusNumber of Judas-30 pieces of
SilverMeaning of Playing Cards-13 Apparitions of Jesus.
Number 14Phantoms of the MindHawaiian Sacre SharkLevia-
thanJonahUse of Perfumes.
Number 15Blood of the Lambthe Devil, How CreatedOrigin
of DiseasesRace KarmaPower of ThoughtDweller on the Threshold
Hour of Initiationthe Order of the 15Why EstablishedCon-
tacting the Mastersthe Holy Grail-Message of the Sphinx.
Number 16VictoryNature SpiritsEnchantments.
Number 17Disposing Intelligencethe Celestial Hierarchies-144,000
Value of HoroscopesDiagram of the Hierarchies.
Number 18The Second InitiationBlack Magiciansthe $ Sign
Symbol of the Swan or PelicanNumber 666 and the Beast.
Number 19Number of the SunTwice-bornSun Eclipse every 19
yearsthe Hyperborean LandDruid CollegesSun Initiationthe
Philosopher's StoneCenter in the Spleenthe SwastikaEquilibrium
of the Sexes.
Number 20Celestial InitiatorPower of the ChristReason for
Spiritual Development in Deformed BodiesDescription of the Pineal
Gland and the Pituitary Bodythe Feminine Ray.
Number 21Incarnations of the Higher SelfMme. Blavatsky's last
IncarnationSpiritual Majoritythe Crocodile.
Number 22The New JerusaleniSquaring the CirdeLaw of Co-
operationAquarian AgeProphecies of DiastersEstablishing New
Conditionsthe Woman's AgeTaking Vows.
APPRECIATIONS
"They have collected a positive wealth of material about the sym-
holism of numbers. - . . You will find here a positive treaswy of in-
formation about how to climb to the ultimate attainment."The Boston
Post.
Ten full-page plates, portrait of Dr. Curtiss, many diagrams, etc.
Fourth Edition. 322 Pages. Complete Index. Price $2.50
"The Curtiss Books" Solve the Riddle of Deathand Alter
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
DOES THE PERSONALITY SURVIVE DEATH?
Li communication possible? Is there a safe and legitimate method?
This book gives a dear, scientific, satisfying and comforting explanation
of all after-death conditions, including a clear explanation of the
problems wisolved by "Raymond"; "Letters from a Living Dead
Maie"; "Patience Worth," etc. A rational, scientific, all-indusive philos-
ophy, not a mere mediumistic report.
Wastes no time with elaborate proofs of life after death. Written
for those who already know it to be a fact and desire authoritative
instruction as to the details. Explains all methods of communication
with the invisible.
Four added chapters on Protecting PowersIndependent Commu-
nications, examplesThe Aviator's Great Adventure, a Message from
Quentin RooseveltThe AnnunciationA Message from LincolnA
Prophecy of the Aquarian AgeA Message from SaturnThe Garden
of PrayersThe Message of the SphinxThe CurtainAviator
returns.
You will find all your questions answered in this volume.
CONDENSF.D TABLE OF CONTENTS
Scientific proofsRivers of Life and Deaththe Seven Realms
Realm of Reflectionthe Astral Doublethe After-Death Sleepthe
Awakening of the Aged; After BattleAstral HelpersIndians as
GuidesEarth-bound Spiritsthe Law of Thought and DesireDiseases
Due to Reflex Psychic ConditionsClothing, Houses, Amusements
the Method of MaterializationSouls Seeking IncarnationCondi-
tions Around the Prospective Motherthe Hall of LetheWhy We
Forget the Higher Realms at BirthLaw of Manifestationthe Outer
DarknessJweeping and Wailing and Gnashing of Teeth"Masses
of Color, Perfumes, SoundsHow the Flowers Are ColoredThought-
forms and Inventionsthe Pattern MuseumAeroplane Models and
Other Inventions to ComeObsessing EntitiesPsychic Cause of
DrunkennessExamples and the CureCrimes of "Irresistible Impulse"
Lustful TemptationsControl of Sex DesiresDual and Multiple
PersonalitiesLoving Friends and HelpersSt. Paul's Injunction to
"Try the Spirits"So-called "Lost Souls"the Dweller on the Threshold
Sad Fate of the SuicideElementalsthe Fairies, Nature Sprites.
Their Messages and PropheciesHow Gold is FormedPsychic Realms
Diagrams of the Astral WorldDeath of the Astral PodySpirits
who "Progress to Higher Spheres"the "Hall of Learning" and the
Great Schoolsthe Great White LodgeWork of Mme. Blavatsky
ContinuesIndependent Methods of CommunionTelepathy, Clairvoy-
ance, Clairaudience, Clairsentience, Intuition, Inspiration, Theophany,
AveshaDifference Between Independent and Subjective Methods
"Spirit Control"Subjective vs. Ecstatic TranceMaterialization-
Trumpet Speakingthe Ouija Board, Examples of Its Deceptions and
"The Curries Books" Explain All Psychic Experiences
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
DangersSir Oliver Lodge's Warning as to Automatic WrithigThe
Telepathic Method, Bible ExamplesSt. Paul's Directions to AU Chris-
tiansthe Astral Chill vs. the Spiritual Fire, Chill or ThrillProtecting
PowersNegative vs. Positive StatesEnoch and the Doctrine of
TranslationAkasbic Recordsfour added chapters of Independent
CommunicationsThe Aviator's Great Adventure, a Message from
Quentin RooseveltThe Annunciatk,nA Message from LincolnA
Prophecy of the Aquarian AgeA Message from Saturnthe Garden
of PrayersThe Message of the SphinxThe Curtain.
You will find your questions answered in this volume.
APPRECIATIONS
"We can very warmly recommend this volumeBy far the most
advanced book on the subject Knickerbocker Press, Albany, N. V.
"It is the Christian hereafter that is described 'with the classification
of the Astral World on a scientific basis!'New York Times.
"Distinctively allied with the Bible. . . really of essential value."
Springfield Republican.
"One of the most valuable passages of the book, and a really notable
contribution to the subject, is on the treatment of drunkards and the
nature of alcohoL"Toronto Sunday World.
"We heartily recommend the chapter on The Desire Reals....
There is much other useful advice and knowledge given, such as
regards suiddes and the dangers of (subjective) mediumship. The
chapters on elementals and fairies are extremely interesting, and alto-
gether our friends the Curtisses have given us a very valuable Contribu-
tion for occult study."Editor of Azoth Magazine.
"A great deal of exceedingly useful advice is given to people regard-
ing their relation to their friends who have passed over. It is partic-
ularly desirable that in these times of death and sorrow people should
be familiar with conditions of life on the other side of the wed
Toronto Sunday World
"A saner treatise on the After-Death life would be difficult to
find... . The Authors are perhaps world-famous for their teachings,
and this work should enhance their already great reputation.
Over 300 pages of sound knowledge and advice.... The space at
one's disposal cannot possibly do justice to a work of this caliber,
and those who would delve deeper into this subject should not fail
to read this book." The Occult Review (London).
Can You Afford to Remain Ignorant on This Vitally
Important Subject?
Sixth Edition. With New Apjicndu on Narcotics wid Prayers of
The 0. C. M. V...50
"'The Curtiss Books" solve evolutionary problems
THE TRUTH ABOUT EVOLUTION
and the BIBLE
A new and illuminating concept of evolution.
Revolutionary yet inspiring views of the whole Garden of Eden
story. A new interpretation of the factors claimed by both sides of the
controversy and a rational basis for the reconciliation of religion and
sciiw; of the Fundamintalists and the Liberab.
Profound, yet clear and simply expressed. Scientifically accurate, yet
not tiresomely statistical or unduly terhnwil Vibrant with deep spirit-
ual understanding and penetrating insight into ultimate rUt and the
ftinilnientals of both causation and manifestation.
Expands the mental horizon. Satisfies the bead, yet thrills the heart.
A grasp of this book will enable one to in2infn ida stand in any
company. Answers all questions.
Covers all phases, both biblical and scientific.
Chapters on Science, what it has proved as to the evolution of forms.
Materialism. Not a sound philosophy. Accept its facts, but not its
conclusions. Manifestation. Necessity of a pattern and how material-
ized. Examples. Creation. The first Adam created, the second Jammed.
Not the descendants of apes and why. Evolution not a mechanical
process. Spiritual radio-aclivity Adam and Eve. Not parents of alL
How and why the separation of the sexes took place. Woman's place
and duty. Sex appeal. Garden of Eden. In all religions. No such
place even found. Mning Trees in the Garden. Meaning of their
fruit. Why banished? The Serpent Power. Why used as a symbol?
Sex not impure. The Kundalird-force, effect on spinal cord and brain.
(Jidy in Duality. The Twain one Flesh. True marriage made in heaven.
Object of marriage. Trial and companionate marriages. Supplementary
chapters on God, The Image oj God, and Emmanuel.
APPRECIATIONS
"A new conception of evolution!' New York Times.
"A new interpretation of the factors claimed by both sides In the
controversy over evolution and the Bible" Detroit Free Press.
"The findings of science are well stated" Richmond Times-Dispatch.
"A new and eniightening contribution.... Contains a profound dis-
cussion of the conflict between science and religion and offers an in-
teresting explanation." Spokane Chronicle.
"'The writers unquestionably deplore the drift toward anbnThcw, pnf
they wish to reinforce the drift to spirituality" Boston Transcript.
"Written in a way to bold the Interest." Oakland Tribune.
"The place of woman as the compbvniit of man is demonstrated!'
Columbus Dispatch.
"The story of Eden and the modern social problems involved are dis-
cussed at length and with much interesting co'nn'e"t" Buffalo Courier-
Express.
"Written in simple, clear language the book gives a striking Impres.
sims of the process of evolution .. . in which man shares on all planes.
It is a source of light, a revelation to be welcomed by all such as long
and thirst for an undersfnding of the unity of all life and to whom
'"rh. Curdss Books" Illumine biblical allegories
the Bible so far had remained obscure." Editor, Coude a Cowle, Paris.
"The Curtisses in this volume have cast upon this subject a search-
light of profound spiritual perception, bringing light to many things
heretofore hidden. The book is splendidly written, a rich mine of infor-
mation, and we advise each one of our readers to obtain this valuable
and much-needed treasure volume" Editor, The Aquarian Age.
"Written with simple clarity and directness and reveals the profound
thought as well as the constructive religion of the co-authors." But-
ktin, National League of American Pen Women.
"The old knowledge is transfigured by the new and inspired concep-
tion. Instead of the letter which killeth, we are given food for the
growth of the souL Editor, Psychic Science, London.
"You may take your Bible literally or otherwise, but you are bound
to find The Truth About Evolution and the Bible a stimulating and
thought-provoking book.... The sort of book that can be picked
up and 'dipped into' anywhereintensely readable from the first page to
the last." Editor, Occult Digest.
"The latest work from the inspiring pen of these two highly special-
ized students of the Scriptures, and the psychology of the Spirit, witl
all its symbolism brought down to earth, and presented in language
both simple and impressive.... This book is commended to all who
are interested in things of the Spirit and who are striving to widen and
deepen their understanding of symbology." Editor, Knowing People.
"We are always glad to see a new book by the Curtisses appear at
our desk. We stop work at once and read it, for the several books
issued by these gifted authors thus far have always been not only
helpful but of unusual merit.... We have enjoyed it. We have
profited by it. The clean, wholesome, sane, logical philosophy em-
bodied cannot fail to impress constructively. We affirm that it is dis-
tinctly good stuff." Editor, Mercury.
"The study of the Bible in the light of the above views ought to en-
sourage every thinking Christian to a more rational and scientific view
of religion and must satisfy both his intellect and his heart.... We
look to this book therefore as of profound use and interest to all truly
religious" Editor, The Kalpaka, India.
"An addition to the well-known 'Curtiss Books' is sure of a welcome
from many readers.... Much of the symbolism of the Bibleand
particularly of the creation story in Genesisis explained in an illumi.
nating style.... The chapters dealing with the sex problem and the
true meaning of marriage . . . will no doubt prove helpful to many
people who ale groping for truth amid all the conflicting theories
preached today .. . will inspire and uplift all who are able to appre-
hend it." The Occult Review, London.
"It is always a pleasure to receive a new book for review from Dr.
and Mrs. F. Homer Curtiss, for the reason that their writings are al-
ways direct and to the point, andwhat is of the greatest usefulness in
this rather inchoate fieldsimple and very readable.... The partjcu-
lar value of this volume . . . is the consistent and intelligent reference
to scientific authorities and modern points of view.... Dr. and Mrs.
Curtiss greatly excel in the symbolical or allegorical school of Bible
interpretation." Marc Edmund Jones, Editor, The Sabian Philosophy.
Cossørehensive index for students. Second Edition. Price, $25Q
"The Curtiss Books" reveal the causes of war
THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
A NEW AND ENLARGED EDITION of this
famous book that will help you to understand all wars,
their causes and the cure.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter L A Spiritual War Bulletin. Astounding!
Chapter IL World Peace. How Attained.
Chapter III. Why War? Why Permitted by God?
Chapter IV. Aspects of War. Has Civilization Failed?
Chapter V. Permanent Peace. God's Plan.
Chapter VI. "The War." The Principle of Resistance.
Chapter VII. The Battle of Armageddon.
Chapter VIIL A World-wide Call to Prayer.
Chapter IX. A Prayer for World Harmony.
Chapter X. The Symbology of the Stars and Stripes.
"Philosophy indeed. Worth reading many times.
None equal, in my estimation, this splendid volume."
ALAN LEO, Editor, Modern Astrology.
wrhe Curtiss Books" replace war with peace
THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
After a lapse of over 22 years, we take pleasure in
issuing the third edition of Dr. Curtiss' celebrated
volume, "The Philosophy of War." Since the truths
and principles remain the same, it has required but little
revision to bring it up to date. Enlarged with two new
chapters.
This is not a dry, academic disriiscion of the theories
or even the horrors of war, but a penetrating and il-
luminating revelation of the hidden forces which are at
work behind the scenes of all wars.
It will give you the same understanding and comfort
it gave the thousands of readers of the former editions.
It is written with a passionate desire to enlighten
humanity on fundamentals and to prevent human suf-
fering. It also gives practical suggestions as to what
we each can do now to help stop the present conflict.
Order your copy now. Send for fully descriptive
catalogue of "The Curtiss Books."
Thin! edition. Pike $1.50 I,ostpaid
VL
L
"The Curtiss Books" Solve Sex Problems Normally
LETTERS from the TEACHER
These letters from the Teacher of The Order of Christian Mystics,
in answer to questions coming from earnest and intelligent students
all over the world, touch just the practical questions that arise in
the daily lives of all who are striving to live the higher life.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Volume I
Spiritual Growth and Dc-
vdopment.
The Masters of Wisdom
and Their Work
Concerning The Order of
Christian Mystics.
Prayer and Its Results.
The Astral Plane.
Psychic Phenomena.
Dreams and Visions.
Health and Disease.
The Sex Problem.
Miscellaneous.
Each volume contains en-
tirely different letters covering
different phases of the subject
mentioned in the other volume.
Volume L Sixth Edition Price $2.00.
Volume II. Second Edition Price $2.00.
volume II
Health and Disease.
Psychic Conditions.
The Law of Karma.
Coming World Changes.
Concerning The Order of
Christian Mystics.
After Death Conditions.
Prayer and Its Results.
Health and Disease.
Financial Problems.
Reincarnation.
The Sex Problem.
Marriage and Divorce.
Discouragement.
Jesus and The Christ.
Miscellaneous.
aThe Curtiss Books" explain the problems of daily life
LETTERS from the TEACHER
APPRECIATIONS
"Among the many occult volumes before the public, aiming to assist
students who desire earnestly to master lower appetites and devote
themselves seriously and successfully to the culture of true spirituality,
I know of none more useful and admirable than the work now be-
fore me."W. J. Colville.
"Many Biblical and other problems are handled clearly and con-
vincingly in a manner that shows the instructor to be one sure of
the position taken, desirous of imparting helpful knowledge to all
earnest inquirers, at the same time leaving all students us full mental
liberty.Mystic Light Library Bulletin.
"Another interesting contribution to the department of occult
science."Portland Oregonian.
'1he letters of advice of which this book is nearly full, bear every
mark of culture, of sincerity, and of a lofty thought."San Francisco
Argonaut.
"The book is pervaded with the spirit of loving service. Every
question receives a clear and careful answer which must have satisfie4
the inquirer."American Tkeosophi.ct.
"There is no subject in the book that is not treated in a ninwr
so interesting that it is bard to lay it down, but when the chapter en
The Sex Problem is reached there is found some strong food for a
strong man with a strong mind. The tone of the whole subject is
Purity. It is the sort of a book Size student wants for reference."-
jdwards Paul Jones.
"Its warnings against the dangers of psychism, and its frank and
rational discussion of the sex question . . . are to be commended."
Editor 0. E. S. Critic.
"The beautiful truths expressed in beautiful diction cannot help
but appeal to the soul which is seeking the higher things of life."
Unity.
"I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for the comfort
that has come to me through your Letters from the Teacher. I felt
the moment the book came into my hands like one who bad come
home at lastto a wonderful home for which one had been long and
earnestly seeking and praying and longing.... When one comes into
the realization of ones dearest dreams, knowledge is instantaneous-.--
there is no doubt."M. C.
"I find your books the most helpful I have ever read. They are so
liveable and meet the nunS: of life. Words are so inadequate to ex-
press my gratitude."Mrs. E. H. C.
Vol. II, New letters covering other subjects, including special chap.
ters on Sex, Marriage and Divorce, Financial Problems, the Christ
and She coming World Teacher. etc.
"The Curtiss Books" Are Exhaustless Wells of Fascinating Material
New! Just out! in June of 1935. Another large volume. The
Authors' latest work. A companion to THE VOICE OP ISIS and
THE MESSAGE OF AQUARIA.
THE INNER RADIANCE
Forty splendid chapters covering almost every phase of the mystic
life, occultism and spiritual philosophy, froni the stock market col-
lapse and the depression, and the remedy, to the zodiac, the elementals,
divine fire, redemption, King Arthur and Ins knights, King Desire, and
the Christ Star.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Inner Radiance: that mysterious power which pushes all things
on to perfection. The God Man: God m the process of manifestation
in man. As in the Days of Noah: planets returning to similar rela-
tions and producing similar conditions today. How to master them.
Spiritual Co-operation: a law of the universe. Man and the Zodiac:
how the 12 signs are represented in man. The Lord from Heaven:
how the spiritual man descends into the human. The Soul Language:
the inner language of spiritual consciousness. Transmigration: the
doctrine, the atoms. Not reincarnation. Cosmic Causes of World
Conditione and the Remedy: Cosmic and Karmic factors, Dr. Curtiss'
lecture before the Chamber of Commerce. The Mystic Rose: why a
symbol of Divine Love. The Great and the Small: all things are rela-
tive. The Lords of Karma: the events of life neither fate nor pun-
ishment but opportunities. Redemption: the esoteric doctrine. Why
necessary. Reliance: of the outer upon the inner. The Great Work:
the mystery of spiritual alchemy. King Desire: his meaning and
mastery. The Mystery of the Elements: the conscious forces back of
Nature. Hymn to the Elements. Man and the Elementals: role of the
Guames, Undines, Sylphs and Sthmanders. The Realm of Be-ness:
the mystery of Being from non-being. Saturn and Cyclic Law: rOle
of Saturn as tester and Initiator. God, Man and the Planet: their re-
lation. The Book of Remembrance. The Third Eye: functions of
the pineal gland. The Mount of Attainment: the end of the Path.
The Round Table: symbology of King Arthur and his knights. Di-
vine Fire: lire of life, of mind. Cosmic fire. The Glory of the Lord:
how recognized and contacted. Lessons by the Way: the ancient con-
tinents. Lesson of the sage-brush. Nature's symbology. The King of
Glory: where and how he reigns. The Christ Star: the shepherds
and the Wise Men. The five points. Preparation: for the Second
Second Edition with full index. Price $2.50.
Order all of "The Curtiss Books" direct from
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
3510 Quebec St. N. W. Washington, D. C.
"The Curtis. Books" Axe Life-long Friends
APPRECIATIONS
"The majority of the forty chapters which comprise this work con-
cern the revolutionary changes through which humanity is Dow pass-
ing, and their spirtually erudite contents should do .iiuch to allay Jean
which tend to flood the mind though lack of knowledge.... Of
whatever they treat.., the authors are nothing if not supremely
helpful. As Christian mystics who work strenuously for the dissemina-
tion of greater spiritual knowledge among all races and creeds, Dr. and
Mrs. Curtiss write with wide knowledge and experience, and their view-
points and suggestions should prove both interesting and encouraging to
those who view with apprehension the religious, social and political
upheavals which would appear to some to be the visible signs of an
angry Deity's vengeance.Occult Review, London.
"I have enjoyed all of your books so much that somehov any other
literature has lost its value for me. I am quite satisfied to read and
enjoy it, as it is so constructive, loving and truerMrs. S. H. W.,
Indianapolis.
"This is the 18th volume of 'The Curtiss Books' and measures u to
the best teaching put out by the well known authors.... The forty
chapters include several chapters dealing with present-day conditions in
the world.... The book helps one to better understand from the
spiritual standpoint, the revolutionary changes through which hum2nity
is now psscing."Tke Aquarian Age.
"There is no need for ignorance in the world today.... The Inner
Radiance brings into one's consciousness the Why? of all questions,
and their answers! it is food which if earnestly partaken of by the
student will result in good digestion."Mrs. M. E. W., Washington.
"This is the latest of the numerous publications of Dr. and Mrs.
Curtiss . . . the purpose of which is to make religion a practical and
vital aid in the conduct of life. Its membership ranges over some 70
foreign countries and is united only by specific hours of devotion and
intercession."Springfleld Union and Republican.
"Permit me to add my tribute of praise to the great volume you no
doubt have received from the production of The Inner Radiance. It
is a fit companion to the other Books,' and I believe shows
a deeper spiritual insight than possibly its predecessors.... I wilt
not rest until I can successfully correlate with the true Inner
Mr. H. S.,, Toronto.
- "it is a continuation of the inspiring and practical teachings to be
found in the long series of volumes issued by the authors; which com-
bine a firm adherence and interpretation of our BIble truths with a
deep and extensive knowledge of the esoteric teachings of ancient and
modern times. It is couched in plain, intelligible language, and its aim
is to be of service to all who are on the upward Path, and are In need
of counsel and encouragement in the difficult and crucial period through
which we are passing.... Many most abstruse subjects are discussed
with utmost simplicity and franfriv.cc."The Rally. London.
The Nineteenth Volume of "The Curtiss Books"
HEALTH HINTS
This is not a large elaborate volume filled with dry statistics and
long-winded discussions and theories about health, but a vitally inter-
esting and practical srnnmary of our teachings on the importance of
health of body, mind and spirit, and how to retain or regain it.
It contains the essence of my many years of medical experience,
together with our highest mystical teachings as to the health of the
inner as well as the outer man. It therefore deals with the effect
upon your health of the thoughts, emotions and psychic influences to
which you respond, as well as the physical factors.
It contains the essence of the most advanced metaphysical teaching
on bathing, breathing, exercise, thought-control, and physical, mental,
psychie, prayer, faith and spiritual healing. All boiled down into
twelve chapters packed with definite laws, rules and directions. AU
expressed in simple, non-technical language.
Contains the exact routine to eliminate most chronic disorders, as
well as explicit instructions as to just what to do in acute attacks. This
may save the life of your child, yourself or your family.
Each chapter gives the essence of whole, expensive courses on each
subject. Just what you have long been waiting for. Study carefully
the table of contents and see if you can afford to be without it.
Price $1.50 postpaid.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction. The body an instrument. What is health? Uses of
pain, of prayer. Natural immunity to all diseases, bow attained.
Restoration to health.
Chapter L Mechanical Factors us Health. Structural defects. Spinal
adjustments, bathing, etc.
Chapter IL Breathing. Science of breath. Occult uses of breath, etc.
Chapter III. Constipation. Reasons for. Mechanism oL Cure oL
Chapter IV. Acute Disorders. Appendicitis cured in a few hours.
Chapter V. Food in General. Compatible combinations etc.
Chapter VI. Compatibility of Foods. Rules for combinations.
Chapter VII. Cooking. Best methods. Raw foods.
Chapter VIII. Various Suggestions. Insomnia. AlcohoL Tobacco,
Vaccination. Serums.
Chapter IX. Mental Influences. Origin of thought Mental health,
Chapter X. Emotions. Effect of joy, happiness, prayer, aspiration.
Chapter XI. Spiritual Influences. Invisible helpers. Healing Prayer.
Chapter XIL Menus and Statistics. How to choose, properly com-
bine, cook and serve foods.
Price $1.50 postpaid.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
3510 Quebec Street, N. W. Washington. D. C.
APPRECIATIONS
"This boolç as the name implies, contains Health Hints for the
purification of the body, mind and emotions, and is one of tile best books
we have ever seen on the maintenance of health from all standpoints.
It has invaluable chapters on Breathing, baths of various kinds, a
very comprehensive chapter on Constipation and its cure; helps in
acute diseases, and some valuable advice in regard to foods, with
suggested menus of correct diet. The author is an M. D. as well as
a nationally known teacher and lecturer along spiritual lines, and he
therefore includes most interesting chapters on the mental, emotional
and spiritual influences which play so vital a part in the health of the
individual. The book is one of the most interesting and comprehensive
ofthehundredswehaveseenonthesubjectofhealth. Itiswefl
indexed, and will be an asset in any family because of its many 'valuable
suggestions." Editor, The Aquarian Age.
"This is the nineteenth volume of the famous Curtiss Books, which
have afforded such an inexhaustible store of Ancient Wisdom and
Mystic Truth for the past thirty years. The present volume . . . gives
forth the results of his many years medical experience as applied to
the inner, as well as the outer man. Valuable suggestions and direc-
tions are given on Breathing, Food and Exercises, both physical and
spiritual. The last chapter is devoted to Spiritual Influences, and the
various methods of Healing, concluding with an earnest desire that
the following of the teachings given may be a source of purification,
understanding health, harmony and happiness to the reader." Editor,
The Rally, London.
"As an inspiration as well as an instruction to all physical sufferers,
it would be difficult to find advice and hope so evenly balanced with
sotmd authority, as is found in the recent book Health Hints by Dr. F.
Homer Curtiss. The chapter on Constipation defines, in the opinion of
this writer, the plain, simple and fundamental cause underlying the
common diseases to which the flesh is heir. So important . . . do we
deem this chapter that we quote it in its entirety, with the untinctured
recommendation of the whole book as being the best document on the
subject health yet to appear for lay readers. No sufferer or nonsufferer
can read this book in vain." Starr Daily, Author of Love Can Open
Prison Doors, etc.
From New Zealand: "I have received my copy of Health Hints and
I find it invaluable. Am already greatly improved by following its
practical directions. it is a book that should be in every home."
Mrs. I. W.
The Twentieth Volume of "The Curtiss Books"
ViTAMINS
Their Origin, Importance and Specific Uses.
A most important pamphlet just issued by Dr. Curtiss supplementing
his well-known volume, "Health Hints for Four-Fold Health"
Experimental research has shown that if there is a deficiency of any
of the vjtaminc or mineral salts in the diet, this deficiency upsets the
chemistry of the whole body and makes it impossible for the organs to
perform their functions normally. Hence if certain vif2min are lacking,
certain definite diseased conditions arise, such as rickets, nasal, sinus and
bladder infections, gall-stones, goiter, diabetes, anemia, paralysis of
Beriberi, pyorrhea, loss of appetite and weight, arthritis, rheumatism,
ulcers, varicose veins, hemorrhoids, angina and other heart conditions,
insomnia, frigidity, sterility, eczema, cataract, enlarged prostate, quarrel-
someness, nervous breakdown, etc., result. These conditions are rapidly
relieved if not entirely cured when the lacking vitamins or cell-salts are
supplied, in addition to the other conditions recommended in our "Four-
Fold Health."
The specific effect of each vitamin is fully described in non-tcdinl
language, and the sources from which it can easily and inexpensively be
obtained are listed.
It gives the basic physical factors underlying many mental, nervous
and psychic, as well as bodily disorders, which if corrected allows Nature
to complete the cure without operations or drugs.
An invaluable aid for all who are suffering from any bodily, nervous
or mental i1mnt. May give you the key-note and remedy for your
condition. Price postpaid only SOc.
TO WARDS THE LIGHT
By PRINCESS MARY KARADJA
Founder of The White Cross Union. Author of King Solomon, The
Seven Sacraments, et
The fate and redemption of a suicide told in inspiring blank verse.
"A noble message from the Great Beyond." Pall Mall Gazette.
"This poem is a powerful meditation on the theme: 'Whatsoever a
man sows that shall he reap.'" Aberdeen Daily Journal.
"The story is told in dramatic and moving language. There is a
chain of circumstances powerfully described." Light.
"Will appeal to the general reader as well as to the Metaphysician."
Glasgow Times.
"Her Majesty Queen Alexandra baa graciously Intimated her pleasure
In accepting a presentation copy." light.
King Oscar of Sweden read it aloud at a reception in 1901.
Mr. Stanford of California presented 500 copies to the free libraries
of Australia. Swedish, Danish, Dutch, Finnish and German editions
have appeared in addition to the English edition.
To the Authors knowledge Skis poem has saved at least fiJteen per-
sons from ssiicida. Price $50 postpakL
The following are three new volumes of the handy "Gems Series."
PRAYERS
of
THE ORDER OF CHRISTIAN MYSTICS
A long felt want finally filled. A collection of inspired and in-
spiring prayers for all occasions and for every need and mood.
Published in small, handy form convenient for the pocket or hand-bag,
and accessible at all times.
By its regular use all aspirants may experience the manifold bless-
ings and joys, the protection and comfort of the spiritual forces
which these mystical prayers actually invoke.
Second Edition. Indexed. New fabrikoid binding, 50 cents;
Real leather, $1.00
THE MYSTIC LIFE
An introduction to mysticism and a clear exposition of its meaning,
its scope and its importance in the daily life. Just the thing to place
in the hands of one who is beginning to aspire and think for himself.
Contains chapters on How Mysticism Solves the World's Prob-
kins. The Path of Discipleship. Illumination. The Mystic Christ
Recommendations for Daily Living. Full information for gathering
small groups of those interested to form study-classes for mutual
beip, understanding and fellowship.
Indexed. New fabrikoid binding, 50 ceists; Real leather, $1.00
THE LOVE OF RABIACCA
A Tragedy In Five Acts
A thrilling tale of a pre-historic race, recovered psychically by the
Authors.
Act L The Battlements of the City.
Acr II. The Shrine on the Mountainside.
Acr III. The Crypt Beneath the Temple.
Ace IV. The Love Philter.
Ace V. Scene I. The Rite of Naked Sword.
Scene IL The Fl2Inmg Pyre, and the Prophecy.
New fabrihoid binding, SO conu; Real leather, $1JJO
'The Curtiss Books" Blaze the Trail for the New Age
The GEM SERIES of BOOKLETS
Ideal Gifts at Any Season. Handy Pocket Size.
GEMS OF MYSTICISM
Inspiring passages selected from the writings of Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss.
Gives best simple insight into Mysticsm.
I. Spiritual Growth. II. Duty. IlL Karma. 117. Reincarnation.
V. The Christ. VI. Masters of Wisdom. VII. Micreiiaueous.
"One might wade through the religious philosophizings of every people
and place and not receive the inspiration one will get out of a ten-
minute perusal of this little book."Baltimore American.
Fifth Edition Art Paper, 50 Cents; Limp Leather, $1.00
THE SOUNDLESS SOUND
A Prose Poem of Devotion and Meditation
"Whatever one's creed, every soul can eat and drink of a book full of
loving helpfulness, that comes as unpretentious as a song-sparrow, as
quiet as a hidden spring, as soft as an odor-laden zephyr, with song, re-
frehnwnt and delight."George Wharton James, Editor "Out West"
FOurth Art Edition. Paper, 50 Cents; Limp Leather, $1.00
THE TEMPLE OF SILENCE
The most inspiring treatise on Meditation and entering the Silence.
Practical working directions given.
lire Great SilenceEntering the Silencethe Noon Silence Service.
Thin! Edition. Art Paper, 50 Cents; Limp Leather, $1.00
German Edition. Paper 75 ceniL
THE DIVINE MOTHER
The latest and most beautiful gem of the series.
The Divine Motherthe Bringer Forththe Midnight Prayertb.
Waters of Lifethe Comforter.
Third Edition. Art Paper. 50 Cents; Limp Leather, $1.00
Send for Descriptive Catalog of The CW-tirS Books
Order «The Curtiss Books" Direct from
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
31O Quebec Street, N. W., Washington, D. C
