{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__cross___a_cavalcade_of_the_supernatural.pdf","mytitle":"A Cavalcade Of The Supernatural","mylang":"de"}
A CAVALCADE
OF THE SUPERNATURAL
By
HAROLD H. U. CROSS, Ph.D.
NEW YORK
E. P. DUTTON & CO., Inc.
pit
Copyright, 1939,
By E. P. Dutton & Co., Inc.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.
FIRST EDITION
IN MEMORY OF
CHARLES RICHET
TEACHER AND FRIEND
CONTENTS
CHAPTEK PAGI
L INTRODUCTORY BUT ESSENTIAL INFORMATION . . 1
3
PART ONE
HAPPENINGS IN WHICH PHYSICAL AND
CHEMICAL EFFECTS PREDOMINATE
II. WATER-DIVINING 3 1
m. TABLE-TURNING, OUIJA-BOARDS AND RAPS ... 42
IV. TELEKINESIS 56
V. APPORTS 69
VI. INTERPENETRATION OF MATTER 8 1
Vn. LUMINOUS EFFECTS 85
Vm. MATERIALIZATION 92
IX. POLTERGEISTS AND HAUNTED HOUSES . . . . I40
"
PART TWO
PHENOMENA IN WHICH THE MENTAL
FACTOR IS IN GREATER EVIDENCE
X. "SPIRIT" PHOTOGRAPHY 1
5 1
xi. "psychography" 162
XH. "THE TRUMPET SHALL SOUND" 1
76
XIII. UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE . . . I95
xrv. conclusion 236
appendix i 243
appendix 11
248
general index 25 1
index of names in text 257
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
FACINQ
PLATB PAGE
i 57
n, part i 105
n, part 11 106
in 107
rv 112
v 156
vi 169
vii 202
1
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
RATIONAL PSYCHIC RESEARCH
Chapter I
INTRODUCTORY BUT ESSENTIAL
INFORMATION
PSYCHIC RESEARCH now occupies such an im
portant place in the pageantry of passing things that
everyone who watches the procession of scientific
progress, must, to a greater or lesser extent, be im
pressed, directly or indirectly, by the non-material
trend of practically all modern ideas concerning
science.
Psychology and metaphysics— the former still a
youngster in the scientific family— have hitherto been
charged with the burden of explaining the unusual
and the abnormal in our existence. To clarify still
further the situation, certain facts have been desig
nated as metapsychic, a term meaning beyond the
domain of ordinary psychology or physiological psy
chology; in short, a word competent to express the
various phases of mediumistic phenomena. But, even
with this aid, it is to be feared that there are many
intelligent persons who are roaming down the ave
nues of -isms and -ologies like a crusader who has
13
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
mislaid his map of the Holy Land. Some of the less
erudite are, quite frankly, scared by the Frankenstein
of abnormality that has, during the last few decades,
reared its head from under the cloak of Spiritualism.
To all such, this little book, it is hoped, will prove a
source of solace and guidance along an admittedly
very perplexing road; it is the object to show
throughout the pages that follow, that mind is the
master-power that fashions the unwritten history of
the years; and that occultism is hardly a term which
harmonizes with the true spirit of scientific progress.
Occultism is rather an all-embracing word covering a
multitude of mystic truths and near truths, plus a
whole lot of utter nonsense.
Today science is able to stab the gathered darkness
of occultism with a long shaft of penetrating light,
for science
is,
after all, but the sum total of ways and
means leading to the knowledge of truth. The science
of the college may have replaced the faith of the
conventicles, as Joseph Conrad put
it,
but in retalia
tion science has become the chief of the prophets.
By its very catholicity, science has taken the cult out
of occultism.
At the outset, the reader will want to know the
position of the author, so let
it
be said that— after more
than thirty years of personal investigation—he most
definitely inclines to the so-called spiritualistic hy
pothesis as the only rational explanation of ALL the
facts presented by metapsychics, but he most em
phatically repudiates any suggestion of an attempt to
ESSENTIAL INFORMATION
proselytize the reader into such a sect, of whom the
larger part feed themselves on delicious but innutri-
tive illusion, and for whom no future destiny, except
absorption in well-established religions, is probable.
His experience has been wide— at least in the geo
graphical sense— and his electrical and medical train
ing have most certainly nurtured a critical and experi
mental bias, that it is hoped will be as quickly
appreciated by his colleagues in the General Electric
—and in general medicine—as it is depreciated by his
spiritualist friends.
Metapsychical acts—i.e. the phenomena of Spirit
ualism—occur every day in London and New York,
in fact in every centre of humanity, as well as in the
Acts of the Apostles!
In this day and age, men and women in all depart
ments of science admit the FACTS of spiritualistic
phenomena. They do not, in general, admit their
"spiritual" interpretation, although there are some
outstanding names in physical science, such as Sir
William Crookes and Sir Oliver Lodge, to mention
only two— giants of scientific intellect— whose experi
ence with spiritualistic phenomena has been im
mensely varied and of a whole lifetime in extent; and
who have ranged themselves on the side of the spirit
ualist. The former, it is true, at first hotly denied
the spirit postulate; indeed at the conclusion of his
famous work with Florence Cook, he wrote in Light,
"I have found no proof whatever that men survive
the grave. I have never once had satisfactory proof
15
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
that this is the case— the great problem of the future
is,
to me, as impenetrable
a
mystery as ever." Not
until
1
91
7,
shortly before he died, did he amend his
declaration to: "IT IS QUITE TRUE THAT A
CONNECTION HAS BEEN SET UP BE
TWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE NEXT."
It
will be observed that even here the note of per
sonal survival and personal return
is
absent, although
Sir Oliver, on the contrary,
is
profoundly convinced
that
it
is
sometimes possible to prove the latter diffi
cult feat through complete identification.
It
must be recalled that any such admission of belief
is
still decidedly unpopular, and the author knows of
more than one man of science, who secretly inclines
to the spirit interpretation of the facts he has seen in
the psychic research laboratory, but who on no ac
count would like his secret belief to be generally
recognized.
Facts are, of course, undeniable; not to admit them
is
to display ignorance or gross prejudice, although
as the author's friend and master, the late Professor
Charles Richet, put
it,
"It
is
positively painful for
a
physiologist and man of science to have to admit the
truth of metapsychics." But such men are courageous
enough to do just that. Richet went further, he ad
mitted that he was at first the chief of scoffers, and
that he later knew that he was foolishly wrong. A
confession almost unique in the annals of psychic
research!
The interpretation of these facts offers more lati
16
ESSENTIAL INFORMATION
tude, and the writer's great friend did not (until near
his passing) see eye to eye with the other famous
scientists mentioned. He would have liked to, no
doubt, but his half-century of laboratory experimen
tation had rendered the acceptance of the spirit inter
ference theory peculiarly difficult and distasteful; like
all good scientists, he was in honour bound to seek
and to uphold any material explanation before he
capitulated, and this would only be possible after such
theories as the subconscious mind, hallucination, hyp
notism, aggregate and divided personality, cryptes-
thesia, etc., had failed to serve. Any scientist, worthy
of the name, could not be expected to clutch at that
last straw—the discarnate intelligence of a personal
character—to explain the mysteries of mediumship
until he had completely exhausted all known prem
ises. It is paradoxical that Richet's masterpiece,
Thirty Years of Psychical Research, so ably trans
lated from the French by Stanley de Brath, has con
verted many hundreds of people to the spirit view
point, although its author, almost to the last, re
mained unconverted! This savant professor of the
University of Paris, who won the Nobel Prize for
his researches in medical physiology, built up his ex
perimental evidence with such consummate skill, that
in the words of Emerson "he builded better than he
knew!
"
Indeed, it has astonished many of his readers,
how Richet, with all his wealth of research and ex
perience—probably unique in the history of psychical
research— could have remained undecided as to the
»7
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
explanation. Some regard his conclusions as anticli-
matic. But it must be remembered that the purpose
of science is to develop, without prejudice or precon
ception of any kind, a knowledge of the facts, the
laws and the processes of nature. Science concerns
itself primarily with the intellect. It employs the
microscope, the scalpel, the test tube, the formula
and the equation. Science, as that great legislator of
the experimental method, Claude Bernard, teaches us,
offsets a hundred negative testimonies by one positive
observation. Experiment is the path of progress, and
as D'Arsonval puts
it,
"To find the facts, to observe
them well, to make deductions—
it
is
there where, de
spite what one may say, lies the future of science"
(and most certainly of psychic research!). Yes! as
the writer's old friend, David Starr Jordan, used to
say to all his students at Stanford University, "With
out the spirit of research
a
man lags behind the prog
ress of knowledge and his mental equipment becomes
second hand."
In all sciences, and this includes psychic science,
new facts may be determined by three processes:
(
i
)
direct experiment; (2) logical deductions from
al
ready established facts; (3) by these two processes
corroborating each other.
On the other hand, the purpose of religion— that
other overshadowing aspect of psychic research—
is
to
develop the consciousness of the ideals and the aspira
tions of mankind.
It
is
primarily concerned with
emotion. Religion employs the cadences of the
18
ESSENTIAL INFORMATION
Psalms, the Wisdom of Solomon, time-honoured
creeds, and above all, the insight of Jesus and Paul.
It is this subtle fusion of science and religion in psy
chic research, that so perplexes the average scientist
who is accustomed to the cold facts of chemistry and
the uncompromising principles of physics. In other
words, metapsychics comprises science plus active lo
calized intelligence which, unfortunately for the or
thodox scientist, endows it with a distressing element
of "unpredictability"— a monstrous situation to the
mathematical and materialistic mind of the man of
science, who quite naturally expects a definite and
unvarying result to follow from an experiment under
a given set of conditions. Nevertheless, it is note
worthy that the great prophets of science and religion
have never denounced each other; it has always been
the unworthy followers who have persecuted the
prophets and most bitterly opposed scientific progress.
PRESENT POSITION OF SCIENCE
In order that the reader may obtain a better under
standing of the present position of science, and psy
chic research, alias Spiritualism, the author will give
a brief summary.
In the nineteenth century, except for the scientists
of the first water, practically everyone whose religion
was one stage removed from idolatry, believed in a
three-storied universe: heaven, earth and hell. The
rational-minded, not to say heretical, men of learning
of Darwin's and Huxley's day did their utmost to
19
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
stress the material cause and effect plan of creation.
In those days, men of science were atheistic in ten
dency, and it was not until the old ideas were com
pletely undermined by the sweeping aside of the atom
as the ultimate particle and the discovery of that
curious entity, the Quantum, that the pendulum
began to swing in the other direction. Then rela
tivity shook the very foundations of the universe, and
the man in the street began to think thoughts that he
had never thought before.
Today, men are busy splitting the atom; a few hun
dred yards from the writer's window, millions of
volts are being unleashed in the process! That rock
of chemical ages has finally been blasted asunder.
Even the dreams of the ancient alchemists seem now
to be much less of a chimera than formerly, for the
chemists and the physicists pursuing their researches
into the nature of matter have passed from masses to
molecules, from molecules to atoms, from atoms to
electrons and ether. Matter, the "permanent of the
ages," has been swept aside, leaving the electron as
the true basis of the objective universe.
At each successive step, the difficulty of research
increases till at last the most profound intellect can
penetrate no further, and can but bow in silence
before the unknown Infinite, which remains ever
shrouded in inscrutable mystery. True it is that all
things that enter into chemical composition, in time
undergo decomposition, but their component ele
ments—transmuted or not— remain.
20
ESSENTIAL INFORMATION
And so science is stressing more and more the very
close relation between matter and energy and point
ing out that the actual reality in life, in the last analy
sis boils down to an electrically charged proton or
nucleus of positive electricity, surrounded planetary-
wise by rings of electrons of negative electricity in
constant rotation, like planets around their sun. The
tendency is increasingly towards mystery in matter-
one scientist even calls it "The Mysterious Universe."
This, errors and omissions excepted, is the scientific
position in the present year of grace.
It should therefore not astonish parents that our
young people living in a radio-ridden world should
be a little impatient in ever seeking the new. Why,
almost ten years ago two schoolboys— one in England
and the other in Australia— were sufficiently ether-
minded to establish two-way wireless communication
with the aid of sets composed of two tubes, and
much copper wire and more string. For those two,
the 12,000 miles of geographical space ceased to exist!
From the inception of radio, we have been tireless in
our efforts to break down distance. Trans-oceanic
telephony has made the world neighbours; so much so
that these newer methods of communication are taxed
to their capacity, despite the present high cost for
service of this character. And now that television is
making such strides, we may shortly expect to add
other etheric marvels to those that already astonish
the thoughtful section of mankind.
As Lord Rutherford has said, "We must recognize
21
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
that there is no permanence in science or in matters
connected with science. We must always advance
and be putting a fair amount of our time and energy
to developing new ideas and methods that will lead
to the production of better apparatus for the service
of mankind."
The dean of American letters, Hamlin Garland,
sized up the situation very neatly, too, when he re
ferred to science as "a lengthening shelf of dated
encyclopedias."
If ever there was a time when men's minds are
being attuned to the higher vibrations of the universe,
it is now. For the investigations of this century have
resulted in such discoveries that the shackles of ma
terialism have been shaken as nothing previously had
been able to do. For youth it is the golden age of
opportunity, since new media of expression have
come into being. The schoolboy of today possesses
as reality, the dream of the doctors of science of yes
terday, so that one can approach the study of such a
subject as psychical research as if standing on the
vantage ground of the centuries, having at one's
elbow all the cumulated knowledge of both physio-
chemical science and experimental psychology.
From the religious side, the new light that psychical
research sheds on the problem of immortality, does
not glow in orthodox colours and certainly does not
shine from orthodox places. It must, many think, at
all costs be extinguished lest it lead men into heresy.
It
is,
therefore, not surprising to find that only Uni
22
ESSENTIAL INFORMATION
tarians and other very liberal Christians are openly
giving psychic research close attention with a view
to adding the knowledge it affords to their concepts
of survival.
Very few educated people today would attempt
to sustain the thesis that the brain secretes thought
much as the liver secretes bile; or that the decay
of the body is necessarily accompanied by the decay
of the soul. We are inclined to view the body as
a machine, but not as an ordinary type of machine.
The real man is at the steering wheel, but the body
is the vehicle of the spirit; it is the eternal soul of man
that is driving his body. We know that the body
changes in the course of a few years— the old car has
been replaced by a new one, but the driver is the
same! (Compare Paul's "Natural" and "Spiritual"
body.)
THE BIBLICAL POSITION
Regarding survival, the Bible is rather disappoint
ing, as from Genesis to Malachi there is practically
no word of cheer; on the contrary, it is stated that
the dead know not anything, having gone where there
is no knowledge or device! Even the saintly Samuel
is said to have come up from the grave (Sheol) . Inci
dentally, this Witch of Endor story, which is to be
found in the first book of Samuel, chapter 28, verse
7, is orthodoxy's chief weapon for use against the
spiritualist. But it should be noted that the medium
that gave the seance was incorrectly designated as a
23
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
"Witch." The original Hebrew has no such signifi
cance. Also in the original account there is no state
ment to support the opinion voiced by the writer of
Chronicles (I Chronicles 10:13) that Saul was slain
for enquiring of one who had a familiar spirit, and
the subsequent statement regarding the extent of
Samuel's previous enquiries is a misrepresentation of
fact as shown by the fifteenth verse of the original
account in the book of Samuel.
A further point that appears to have escaped most
critics' attention is in regard to the fate in store for
Saul, for after all, he but not all his sons were, on the
morrow of the battle, to be with Samuel— i.e., among
the godly and the righteous, and certainly not in a
place of weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth!
Coming to the New Testament, the outlook seems
more hopeful since we find early hints of survival.
John the Baptist is said to act under the influence of
Elijah. Then there is that significant scene of return
recounted in the story of Our Lord's Transfiguration,
in which both Moses and Elias appeared and talked
with Jesus, Moses and Elias being described as men.
The Bible is eloquent on what today we should term
the supernormal, as from Genesis to Revelations there
are numberless references to angels— who it is con
tended are semi-human beings of male sex! And if
angels talked with mortals from the time of Adam
until after the crucifixion, some think that it is folly to
suppose that the curtain then dropped, and that ever
since we have been left without a cloud of witnesses.
ESSENTIAL INFORMATION -
Unfortunately, space does not permit me to enlarge
upon this disquisition on the iconography of angels.
It is essential here to consider the more practical
aspect of this investigation, but the reader is urged to
study again the evidence of the Bible in regard to
supernormal phenomena— particularly the evidence
that is assembled in Appendix I (page 243), which ar
ranges the incidents according to modern spiritualistic
terminology.
FOUR PSYCHIC EPOCHS
For purposes of convenient study, the various
epochs of psychism might well be divided as below:
(1) mythical up to the time of Mesmer (1778); (2)
magnetic, from Mesmer to the Fox sisters (1847);
( 3 ) spiritistic, from the Fox sisters to Crookes (1847-
1872); (4) scientific, from Crookes (187 2 -onwards).
The first two categories are hardly suited to a book
of this nature, therefore this enquiry is limited to the
last two.
BEGINNINGS OF MODERN
SPIRITUALISM AND RESEARCH
Modern spiritualism and psychic research had its
beginnings in the now famous Hydesville Rappings,
in the State of New York, U. S. A. It appears that
in 1843-44, a small house in Hydesville was tenanted
by a Mr. and Mrs. John C. Bell. A peddler called
25
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
one day, and Mr. Bell gave him hospitality. The next
day, Mrs. Bell went away for three days, taking the
servant girl with her. Mr. Bell and the peddler were
thus left alone in the house. The peddler was never
seen again.
The Bells left the house after a few months. It
was taken in 1846-47 by a Mr. and Mrs. Weekman,
who were much disturbed by knockings and rappings,
which they put down to trickery. As the most ex
haustive efforts failed to discover the source of the
annoyance, they too left the house. On December
nth, 1847, Mr. and Mrs. John D. Fox, with their
two daughters, Margaretta aged fifteen and Kate aged
twelve, took over the tenancy.
The rappings continued and increased in propor
tion to the efforts made to discover the supposed
trickster.
On Friday, March 3 1st, 1848, Kate Fox discovered
that the rapper could see and answer. The raps de
clared that they were made by a spirit, an injured
spirit; that the rapper had been murdered and
BURIED IN THE CELLAR; that he had been a
peddler aged thirty-one, married, had had five chil
dren, but the wife had since died. Many other de
tails included that the murder had been done for $500.
Great excitement ensued. The cellar was dug up
and some human bones were found with charcoal
and quicklime, BUT NO SKELETON. In 1904,
however, a false wall that had been built across the
cellar a yard from the true east wall fell into disrepair
26
ESSENTIAL INFORMATION
and in the space so revealed, the body and the ped
dler's pack were found.
As may be imagined, immense excitement followed
the discovery that in Kate Fox's presence the raps
would answer questions. Elaborate examinations
were held, and various men of science deposed to the
truth of the facts. They were assailed vigorously by
skeptics, as is customary with new and unpalatable
discoveries of whatever nature.
There was a regular eruption of spirit mediums all
over the United States. Kate Fox began to give
seances for money and became alcoholic. All sorts
and conditions of persons took up the communication
between the two worlds and the movement was de
graded by outrageous extravagancies of fanatical
spiritualists. Hordes of imposters rushed to make
money out of the gullibility of the public, and the
avalanche of fanaticism, deception and superstition
that fell on the country has not been overcome to
this day.
The above account has been abstracted from Brit-
tain's History of American Spiritualism and com
pared with other reliable records. There will be oc
casion to refer to this classic case later, due to its in
creased importance in view of the recent work of
Dr. Osty.
The movement then spread to England, and the
Dialectical Society of London published a report in
1875 declaring the phenomena to be true. This re
port was received by the whole press with howls of
27
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
execration, with the exception of the Standard, the
Daily News, the Spectator, the Echo, the London
Medical Journal and the Examiner.
The great Sir William Crookes then took up the
matter of psychic phenomena in general, but special
izing in "Materialization" with the assistance of Miss
Florence Cook. He was at the high noon of his ac
tivity and reputation, for he had given the world a
new element, thallium. Many serious-minded persons
listened to him, and like Richet, thought that the
savant, who had discovered a chemical element, ra
diant matter, not to mention the famous vacuum tube
that bears his name and by means of which Rontgen
was enabled to discover X-rays, was not a victim of
illusion, an imbecile nor even a fraud, as declared the
masses and their favourite organs of the press.
It would appear that the principal difficulty in
accepting Sir William's "Katie King" was that she
was too perfect a materialization. She moved and
breathed at the side of her medium, Florence Cook.
But Sir William was not alone in his researches; many
others in England and in Europe took up the work,
and their findings were only added testimony to that
of Crookes. A brief review of some of their work
will be noted in later chapters. Today, in the words
of Professor Driesch, M.D., LL.D., of the University
of Leipzig, "The actuality of psychical phenomena is
doubted only by the incorrigible dogmatist."
There are now about 200 journals devoted to the
psychology, science, pseudo-science and philosophy
28
ESSENTIAL INFORMATION
of "Spiritual Manifestation." Most of these are worse
than useless, a few such as Light and the Psychic
News are virile and entertaining, and there is a residue
of highly technical and scientific propaganda and re
port that is scholarly and dignified, as becomes the
proceedings of a learned society. There are no less
than 63 psychic publications in South America. It is
evident that the movement is now world-wide, and if
journalism has anything to do with
it,
the world
is
on
the eve of the most stupendous spiritual upheaval
it
has ever known. In England the Society of Psy
chical research has been in active operation since
1882, when
it
was founded by such intellectuals as
Henry Sidgwick, Edmund Gurney, Sir William Bar
rett, F. W. H. Myers— who coined the word "telepa
thy"—and many other persons distinguished in the
arts and literature, including Lord Tennyson. A
small spiritualist group quickly diverged and in 1902,
founded the Spiritualists' National Union, which now
boasts of over 100,000 members and more than 300
affiliated churches.
It
must be realized that the Psychical Research So
ciety of both England and America has for the ma
jority of its members disbelievers in the so-called doc
trine of Spiritualism.
It
is
said that some are still
a
bit
doubtful about the phenomena!
There have been more savants attracted to Spirit
ualism than to any other cult, and science today
is
favourable in its attitude towards the study of the soul
and all its allotropic modifications;
it
is
also generally
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
felt that no great progress is to be expected in meta-
psychics—the science of the direct action of mind on
matter— whether on the largest evolutionary scale or
in the smallest phenomenon of the laboratory, until
ALL phenomena are taken into account. Then the
old dualism of mind and matter seems likely to disap
pear through substantial matter— as Sir James Jeans
puts it—"resolving itself into a creation and manifesta
tion of the mind." Incidentally, the Apostle Paul said
much the same thing, 2,000 years ago, "We look not
at the things which are seen, but at the things which
are not seen: for the things which are seen are tem
poral; but the things which are not seen are eternal"
(II Cor. 4:18).
Before going on to the study of the specific phe
nomena of spiritualism, it is important to realize that
the moment anything happens it conforms to law—
we may not know what the law is that comes into
play, but that it exists is certain, even though it be a
transcendental law.
30
PART ONE:
HAPPENINGS IN WHICH PHYSICAL AND
CHEMICAL EFFECTS PREDOMINATE
Chapter II
WATER-DIVINING
ONE OF the most generally accepted "peculiar"
things in supernormal manifestation is water-divining
or dowsing. As consideration of this topic will cause
less of a shudder to the spine of the skeptical reader,
it might be well to introduce the more horrific matter
by this curious phenomenon, so widespread and so
well known that people who would never dream of
entertaining any discussion of metapsychics in gen
eral have no deep-rooted objection to this phase,
which they explain to enquiring youth as a form of
"magnetism."
Quite early in life the author interrogated his
school-teacher with regard to the matter and was in
formed that water attracted the willow twig of the
dowser, just as iron filings were attracted to the mag
net—kept under lock and key in the science cupboard!
Upon being pressed for further details, the master
3i
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
with some reluctance—possibly due to his struggles
with his scientific conscience—jerked out the fact that
his own uncle could do
it,
but that the author could
not, because the magnetic current could not travel
through wooden school boys.
The method employed by the diviner
is
shown
very nicely by the experiments carried out with
a
well-known Australian dowser under test and dis
tinctly experimental conditions in Sydney, N.
S.
W.
At the request of the diviner, the editorial and me
chanical staff of the Sydney Mail arranged to hide
some gold, some oil and some water in various parts
of their building. These materials were to be secreted
by several persons and in such positions that the sub
stances to be dowsed should not be liable to confusion
with water pipes, oil drums, etc. This work was
carried out
a
day or so before the dowser got there.
Upon his arrival he produced his divining rod, which
was of the regulation
Y
pattern with the exception
that there was
a
depression at the fork of the twig
about one-half inch in depth, and capable of being
plugged with
a
cap made of the same willow wood.
It
had been decided by the newspaper staff that the
man should first of all seek out
a
buried tank of water
that was some 150 feet below the fourth floor, on
which the experiment was being carried out.
Grasping the fork by its two limbs, the dowser
promenaded around the room carrying the twig
straight before him with his arms extended horizon
tally and with the stem of the willow twig pointing
32
WATER-DIVINING
perpendicularly upwards. In a few moments it was
apparent that he wished to leave the office he was now
in and proceed several doors down a corridor to the
right. This he did with the spectators in his wake.
Arriving at a door some twenty yards down, he re
quested the author to open it for him. This room
was a file room and was bare of furniture. Arriving
at the middle of the floor the dowser became flushed
in the face, perspiration dripped from his forehead,
and his hands indulged in convulsive twists, and de
spite the very obvious effort exerted by the dowser
to prevent the twig from inverting, it suddenly dipped
towards the floor. The plant engineers— who were
NOT present at the experiment—stated that we were
directly over a cistern of water that they had filled for
the occasion, and which was situated in the basement
of the building.
The party then returned to the first office and it
was decided that the gold should next be sought. The
dowser carefully pulled out the cap of his rod, and
inserted a small gold nugget about the size of a pea.
Replacing the cap, he commenced operations by
quickly darting to the north corner of the room,
where he stood like one transfixed as his twig bent
down to a position four inches to the left of the radia
tor pipe. No gold was found at this point, but the
editor announced that some ten pounds in gold had
been placed in a sealed bank bag in the room below.
It was found that the bag had been placed between
the radiator pipe and the wall, thus bringing the gold
33
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
within the radius named by the diviner by reflection
on the floor above.
The oil experiment was a complete failure, although
several attempts were made, and many different types
of oil—contained in small glass bottles— were placed,
in turn, in the cavity of the dowsing twig. It was
ascertained that the cache consisted of a large tank of
fuel oil in the basement some yards from the place of
experimentation.
Sir William Barrett, F.R.S., a convinced supporter
of the spirit theory, did a great deal of research work
with water-diviners, and in 1926 in collaboration with
Theodore Besterman, published a large work on the
subject The Divining Rod (Methuen). The bibliog
raphy alone quotes 534 volumes. The names of about
twenty-three British dowsers find a place in the book.
At the time when Sir William was professor of Ex
perimental Physics at the Royal College of Science,
Dublin, he directed an important and very conclusive
series of experiments in water-divining. First, a Mr.
Stone was taken to some fields in County Wicklow,
a place where he had not been previously; those who
supervised the experiment were also ignorant of the
geology of the region—an essential proviso to avoid
possible telepathy. Mr. Stone, using a slender forked
twig, said that in a certain spot water would be found
in abundance at the depth of 15 feet. Other places
were indicated in which water could be had in plenty.
All these situations were carefully marked and then
fixed by measurement, so that all marks could be re
WATER-DIVINING
moved. Several likely spots were suggested by the
geologists accompanying the dowser, but of all he
replied in the negative. Pressed to try again at one
special spot, Mr. Stone stated that if they must
bore there— a friend, having purchased a cottage site,
was most keen to have water found— they could try
a spot indicated, but only a little water would be
forthcoming.
A second experiment over the same area was con
ducted with a Waterford gentleman, who was a
strictly amateur dowser; the conditions as regards
knowledge of the vicinity were as before, and he
knew nothing of the previously found places, also he
went round the district alone, so that no hint could
be derived from an involuntary movement by those
who knew the approximate findings of the first ex
periments. Upon the completion of the perambula
tions of the Waterford gentleman, it was ascertained
that not a foot of discrepancy was apparent in the
two sets of results. He also confirmed the statement
of Stone about the scarcity of water on the summer
cottage site.
Boring operations were commenced at the first spot
indicated by the two dowsers, and at a foot below
the surface hard clay was struck. This continued for
eight feet, when the jumper entered a sand bed and
water rose to within four feet of the surface of the
hole. Gravel was then struck and the flow of water
was so great that they had to wait for a lining tube.
The locations in which Stone and his confrere had
35
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
stated it would be of no use to look for an adequate
supply of water were then bored, but only clay was
encountered until the bore struck quartzite rock and
insufficient water was found. About eighteen inches
of the rock was bored, but no further supply was
found. In order to check up on the results, a likely-
looking spot covered by rank grass was next bored
and rock was struck at the depth of eight feet nine
inches. This was drilled to the depth of two feet
nine inches, but no water was found. A further
"likely" spot was drilled and proved equally negative.
Among the famous dowsers, John Mullins was one
of the greatest, and he generally was content to sink
a well free if his divining proved inadequate as re
gards quantity of water. In his hands the rod snapped
in two at times, so powerful was the "force." Many
amateur diviners report cases in which the twist of
the twig is so violent that the skin is chafed off the
palms of their hands.
In the case of a South African dowser, the instru
ment acted differentially: for less than 5,000 gallons
per twenty-four hours the twig drooped, but for a
greater quantity than this it rose. The power is also
transmissible, as Mullins could cause many people to
find water, by holding their wrists. In one case the
ungifted amateur holding the twig over running
water had it broken in his hands when Mullins held
his wrists.
Although the rod seems to be essential it is not ap
parently quite indispensable, as it is recorded of one
3<S
WATER-DIVINING
diviner that he simply walks with his hands extended
palm downwards. When he walks over water, he
feels a shivering sensation come over him.
Other experiments have indicated that the type of
wood of which the instrument is composed is unim
portant EVEN THOUGH THE DIVINER
THINKS IT IS, but a dry twig does not appar
ently answer. Galvanized iron wire, bent like a cro
quet hoop, has served upon occasion, as reported by
Mr. Napier Denison of Toronto Meteorological
Observatory. The "force" has even been known to
twist the wire! The case of Sir Henry Harben, the
owner of Warnham Lodge near Horsham in Sussex,
will serve as a concluding example of the phenomenon
of water-divining. He found a scarcity of water on
his property and was advised to have recourse to Mul-
lins, but he refused as he had no confidence in such
powers. When over ^1,000 ($5,000) had been spent
uselessly under the best scientific advice, Mullins was
called in. He located two fine well sites some 800
feet away from the costly engineering experiments.
These, he said, were fed by independent springs about
fifteen feet below the surface of the ground. The
wells were sunk with entirely satisfactory results,
water in abundance being found at fifteen feet as pre
dicted.
We have already indicated that water is not the
only substance that acts on the dowser's rod. The in
strument has even been used in criminology. One of
the best-known cases of this use is to be found in the
37
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
account of Jacques Aymar of Saint Marcellin, near
Lyons.
iWhen searching for water one day, Aymar felt his
rod turn so strongly that he was convinced that he
was standing over an underground supply, but on
digging, there was found the head of a murdered
woman. Aymar went to the house where the woman
had lived and found that the rod turned only for one
person— her husband, who fled.
Aymar subsequently assisted the cause of justice in
the tracking of murderers, and was highly successful.
In one case he even dowsed a man (a murderer) al
ready imprisoned for the crime of petty larceny. The
thief confessed to the murder upon which Aymar
was working, and was broken on the wheel.
CONCLUSIONS
On the evidence submitted it has been concluded
that dowsing depends upon a subconscious sensibility
—or as Professor Richet would express it "cryptes-
thesia," a hidden sensibility resident in the dowser—
to the presence of water, etc. This influences by
subconscious muscular action the turning of the twig.
In plain words, the subconscious mind of the diviner
reveals the presence of the object sought for and
causes the muscles to move the rod. This is a highly
respectable theory, generally accepted, and in addi
tion largely inaccurate. The last case cited is suffi
cient to cause grave doubt as to the mechanical inter
pretation. Moreover, the fact that the rod does not
38
WATER-DIVINING
always move in an unintelligent manner is rather dis
concerting to the theory just given. But there are
other points, e.g., blindfolding the diviner does not
alter the operations of the rod. An instrument that is
declared unsuitable by the dowser moves just the same.
The fact that a dry stick would not function indicates
something more than unconscious muscular action.
The case in which a galvanized iron wire— admittedly
dry— was twisted into a loop is quite incompatible
with muscular action, conscious or otherwise. It is
possible that the insulative and non-conductive qual
ities of the dry stick prevent the action of the dows
ing "force," but in the case of the galvanized iron
wire we have two dissimilar metals in contact, also
an electrolyte formed by the perspiration of the
dowser's hands, to secure its conduction. Then,
again the loaning of "force" to a neutral subject by
contact of a sensitive's hands at the wrists of the for
mer still further complicates the issue, especially when
it is found that reinforcement is possible when a sec
ond dowser can assist, by wrist contact, the rotative
efforts of a first. The official explanation that a dry
stick will not work, on the ground that it is not so
elastic as a green twig and therefore would not re
spond to "the slight muscular movements," is most
unsatisfactory, as slight muscular movements neither
break sticks nor produce blisters, through torsion, on
the dowser's hands!
It seems conclusive, therefore, that whatever is the
nature of this force, it acts on the rod, NOT on the
39
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
hands that hold the rod. Richet has shown that the
rod can turn in a sheath which is held in the diviner's
hands. Also the rod has been turned when gripped
by iron tongs held by the dowser. (See Proc. S. P. R.
xiii, p. 97.) Evidently the force does NOT proceed
from the water, since its action is inconstant and not
in accordance with the inverse square law, for the
force involved does not vary with the depth of the
water. It
is,
of course, axiomatic that mechanical
forces must act in the same manner, and not turn an
object downwards at one experiment and upwards at
a
subsequent one and rotate
it
at another. There
must be an extraneous force involved, whether or not
unconscious muscular action comes into play.
It
is
probably
a
vital force, because we have seen that
it
is
connected with the mental or nervous organization of
the dowser and conforms to his will, since
it
will dis
cover metals, dead bodies, etc., besides water.
It
is
strictly analogous to other mysterious telekinetic
(action at
a
distance) forces, whose operations pertain
to that transcendental world which
is
beyond our ma
terial existence. Science admits that the forces that
are associated with the cohesion of the atom, for in
stance, are of
a
transcendental character— i.e., their
laws and method of action are quite beyond com
prehension.
The electrical and external nature of the phe
nomena has been verified to an extent by some recent
work done in Rome, in which
it
was demonstrated
by means of
a
micro-ammeter that the resistance of
a
40
WATER-DIVINING
human being is reduced if the subject be situated in
the "lines of force" as demonstrated by the divining
rod reaction.
It must be constantly borne in mind that with this
subject, as with others to be discussed, that one can
react like a former secretary of the Royal Society
who received an invitation from Crookes to witness
telekinesis, and ignore the matter, or one can adopt
the curious and almost incredible attitude of the Right
Hon. Sir Herbert Maxwell, a learned and able ob
server, who said, "I don't believe in the divining rod,
but I don't deny that its virtues are genuine (!); and
were I in straits to find water I should employ a pro
fessional water finder—rod and all— if there remains
one as successful as Mullins was" (p. 1
3 1, Sir H. Max
well's Memoirs of the Months) .
Or better still, one can be consoled with the
thought that these extraordinary incidents, duly
authenticated by competent scientists, are not really
in any sort of contradiction with classical science.
The abnormal behaviour of the musculature of the
dowser in no way changes his normal physiology-
it adds something. The truths of metapsychics upset
none of the laws which science has long established.
They introduce into science a new chapter, that is all.
4i
Chapter III
TABLE-TURNING, OUIJA-BOARDS AND
RAPS
IN THE last chapter we crossed the threshold, as it
were, of the supernormal, and in the present one we
take the plunge into the vortex of what might be
termed domestic spiritualism, as typified by "table-
turning."
This is one of the commonest and most ancient
methods of what a certain evangelical sheet calls
"dickering with the dead."
Primarily, it should be understood that this mani
festation—like many others grouped under the rather
ambiguous heading of "mediumistic phenomena"—is
independent of one's religious views; in fact, many of
the most famous mediums are not spiritualists.
The movement of objects, such as a table, is allied
to what is known as "telekinesis" (movement at a
distance); indeed, at times during a successful table
seance when "the power is strong," telekinetic exhibi
tions occur. Usually, however, in domestic circles,
the table around which the sitters are gathered for a
seance does not move independently of the direct
contact with living persons. The table vibrates,
throbs, jolts and even tilts more or less violently, but
TABLE-TURNING, OUIJA-BOARDS AND RAPS
these developments may have a perfectly normal ori
gin. Not infrequently, one or another of the sitters
decides to help matters along with his knee, or by
some other voluntary effort of his muscles. This has
occurred in many of the circles in which the author
has sat. In one case recently, he accidentally kicked
the table leg during a dark seance, and the long-
awaited movements of the table appeared forthwith
and increased in vigour as the sitting proceeded. Ap
parently the enthusiasm of the— presumably honest-
sitters got the better of them, and before the writer
could explain that the effect originated from his large
and clumsy foot, everyone started to work on the
table with a will, so that it all but toppled over during
many of its capers.
Similar "accidents" have happened in so many
circles and in so many different parts of the world,
that it is difficult to subscribe to the findings of Pro
fessor Richet, "that it is rare that the conscious will
of one of the sitters intervenes fraudulently— in these
family circles where everyone is above suspicion."
La Grande Esperance, p. 203, Editions Montaigne.
However, there are undoubted occasions upon
which the table moves without any conscious assis
tance from any of the sitters.
Performed in the regulation manner, the sitters are
grouped around a table— preferably round— and each
one places his hands on the surface of the table in
such a manner that no pressure is exerted. Sometimes
the participants join their thumbs and little fingers,
43
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
so that an endless chain is formed. This is said to in
crease the "magnetism." Under average conditions
of domestic mediumship, the table will show signs of
movement—often in daylight. Should a member of
the family circle be a powerful medium, the table
moves in a very remarkable fashion; under excep
tional circumstances the table has been known to rise
away from the sitters, and to attain such a height
from the floor that they have to rise to their feet to
keep their hands in contact with the table top. Regu
lar sittings with the same group of persons increase
the effects. In rare cases the table behaves as shown
in the photograph in plate I, which was taken under
rigorous test conditions with everything under con
trol. Leaving aside this photograph for the moment
and confining the discussion to the average domestic
case of table-turning, it is quickly perceived that the
table has apparently become endowed with intelli
gence as it professes to answer questions, as a rule
tapping three times for an affirmative answer and only
once for a negative response; in some cases if the
issue is doubtful the table will tip or knock twice.
Any name or information may be obtained by the
sitters if they will employ a recitation of the alphabet,
the letters required being annotated with tilts or taps
from the table. The process is a bit slow, but many
are satisfied with this method of operating an astral
intelligence bureau.
Occasionally the table becomes quite affectionate
and may, as Lodge reports in Raymond, "rub itself
44
TABLE-TURNING, OUIJA-BOARDS AND RAPS
softly and gently and with an intelligent pressure
against the knee of the sitter." In any event, it is
assuredly beyond any reasonable doubt that in the
movement of the table there is often a considerable
amount of intelligence— quite apart from any pos
sessed by the sitters; in fact the type of motion differs
with the different alleged controls, and thus the va
rious entities may be recognized as in life by their
table manners.
Up to this point it is possible to explain all by the
action of the subconscious mind of the medium pres
ent in the circle, and for the benefit of the reader who
is not au fait with hypnotic and subconscious men
tality, the basic principles will be expounded.
The Subconscious Hypothesis. For many decades
it has been the current practice of psychologists of
the orthodox type to explain every phase of meta-
psychics—that could not at once be disposed of as
pure fraud— as manifestation of the subconscious mind
of the medium, or of the sitters, or of both. To
many, this method of "solving" the problem was
merely an attempt to explain the obscure by the more
obscure. Professor McDougall puts it most suc
cinctly when he says, "Such words as the 'Subcon
scious mind,' 'Secondary Self and 'Subliminal Self
are merely popular catch-words that serve to cloak
our ignorance and to disguise from ourselves the
need for further investigation. For the ordinary
procedure is to postulate a 'Subconscious mind' and
45
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
then merely to assign to its agency all the varied
phenomena of a supernormal character, its nature
remaining completely undefined and its capacities
for the production of marvels being regarded as
without limit in any direction. . . . Any such di
vision of the mind into two unlike parts, such as is
commonly implied by names of the kind mentioned
above, appears wholly unwarranted." Special atten
tion is drawn to the word which the author has taken
the liberty of italicizing.
By hypnotism, the subconscious part of the mind
of man can very readily be explored, and contrary to
popular opinion it appears that there are most cer
tainly NOT two distinct and unlike parts. The
"creeping in" of post-hypnotic suggestions, and the
spontaneous recall of hypnotic events to the con
scious portion of the mind by some sight or sound,
etc., perceived by the subject, indicate the conjoint
nature of the two portions of the mind. The sudden
recollection of a forgotten dream is another evidence
of the unity of mind.
Hypnotism also establishes the fact that impressed
personalities become living realities in the subject for
the duration of the "suggestion." So marvelously
does an ordinary subject "play" the character sug
gested to him that, seeing it for the first time, the
average person would stand aghast at its verisimilitude.
Experts in the field of hypnotism and the various
hypnoidal states, of which mediumistic trance is one,
find no especially difficulty in explaining the multiple
46
TABLE-TURNING, OUIJA-BOARDS AND RAPS
personality possessed by the average good medium,
on the basis of self-induced hypnotism. The writer
has shown elsewhere that the state of an entranced
medium differs in no really striking way from an
analogous condition produced by hypnosis. Even
the electrical reactions of the neuro-muscular system
of the two states bear a most suggestive resemblance.
Further it must be remarked that the average spirit
ualistic medium is not just an average hypnotic sub
ject, but an extremely apt one. In any case, so far as
the mechanism of the production of the trance con
dition is concerned, the choice lies only between auto
suggestion and hetero-suggestion (outside sugges
tion); the former is held as the cause by the oppo
nents of the spiritualistic theory.
Every hypnotic authority is well aware that all the
phenomena of spiritualism, psychological and physi
cal, can be produced for one or more subjects by
hypnotic suggestion until he approaches the matter
from the laboratory angle; then the findings of a
camera or the unerring finger of a galvanometer,
which records its observation in letters of light, shat
ter his hypnotic hypothesis into an impalpable pow
der, less tenuous than ectoplasm in course of dema-
terialization!
The More Obscure Phenomena of Table-turning.
Apart from the simple evidences of intelligence given
by the average "turning table," there are frequently
some cases that are frankly inexplicable by any
known means.
47
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
For example, a friend of the author's who was a
regular sitter at a table circle, was much exercised in
his mind as to the certainty of the phenomena, and
so stated to his friend C. (not a member of the circle),
"If the table could spell out some high-class poetry,
for instance, then I should believe." At the very
next sitting, as soon as the lights were lowered, the
table spelt out several verses of good poetry! Per
haps a coincidence?
Richet in his last work but one, already alluded to,
reports the following in reference to the more ad
vanced forms of table phenomena:
"With my regretted friend, Gaston Fournier, a
non-professional medium of great power, I undertook
for over a year a series of experiments which I shall
call 'the hidden alphabet.' Here is the method: A
table is so arranged that when one of the legs is
raised from the floor an electric bell is rung. At this
table is seated Gaston F. and two of my friends whom
I shall call A. and B. All three have their backs
turned towards me and to another of my friends
whom I shall call C. The light is bright. I have in
front of me an alphabet, that is to say a card upon
which are written all the letters of the alphabet, so
held that neither Gaston, nor A. nor B. could see a
single letter. Then with my finger, or an object,
silently and at variable speeds I trace an indefinite
course over the letters on the card. The distance
that separated me from Gaston and the table was
such that even if the sitters had not their backs turned,
48
TABLE-TURNING, OUIJA-BOARDS AND RAPS
they could not see the letters of my alphabet. C.
who is alongside of me writes down the letters, in
front of which my finger passes, when the bell rings,
due to a tilt of the table.
"During all the time of the experiment we spoke in
loud voices and made jokes, Gaston joining with the
others in our singing and recitations of poetry. We
made much noise.
"Well, even under such conditions, we obtained
not only intelligent phrases, but French verse and
Latin verses in reverse! I draw attention to the fact
that neither Gaston, nor A. nor B. knew what was
dictated by the table, and written by C. As the ex
periment was at times very lengthy they imagined
that it had failed, but this was not the case, and I
insisted that they go on."
Richet further relates how, fearing that by some
impossible means Gaston had been able to follow the
rhythm of his (Richet's) hand and thus followed the
letters to suit himself, Richet had substituted a cir
cular type of alphabet that commenced, not by the
letter A, but by one chosen at random. In addition,
he used a new rhythm for each successive letter.
Another of these experiments was carried out in a
very dim light, in the presence of Sir William
Crookes, who was seated at a considerable distance
from both the medium's table and the one upon
which the alphabet was arranged; the reply to a
question which was asked mentally, by Sir William
was demanded of the table. With remarkable pre
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
cision, the table rang out, "I know only the slang."
It is to be noted that Gaston spoke no English. The
mental question asked by Crookes was, "What is the
Christian name of my eldest son?"
Undoubtedly, those who are interested in table-
turning, will be glad to adopt the above plan in their
circle; that is why it has been given in detail.
Tlanchettes and Ouija-Boards. The present seems
to be a convenient juncture at which to interpose a
note concerning the subject of Ouija-boards and
planchettes, the former device being particularly in
favour in the United States, whilst the latter is fre
quently met with in England and Continental Europe.
The planchette is a little heart-shaped piece of
board, mounted on castors and carrying a pencil at
its narrow or pointed extremity. The pencil point
acts as a castor, and is made to glide over a large piece
of paper, fastened to a table-top or drawing-board.
The sitters or sitter, as in the case of the table-turning
experiments, place their finger-tips very lightly on
the planchette, and when circumstances are oppor
tune, the little heart runs over the surface of the paper
and leaves a lead-pencil trail, sometimes in the form
of intelligible characters or drawings. Sir Oliver
Lodge in his work, The Survival of Man, gives an
account of a planchette said to have been controlled
by a Senior Wrangler. Thereupon the planchette
was asked to write the equation to its own curve. It
50
TABLE-TURNING, OUIJA-BOARDS AND RAPS
wrote quite distinctly r=—'— - This, Sir Oliver
remarks, very well represents the equation for the
ordinary form of planchette. It should be borne in
mind that it is much more difficult to invent an equa
tion to fit a given curve (as was done in this case)
than to draw the curve corresponding to a given
equation. The above forms ample evidence of a
mental feat by a much higher type of mind than is
customary. This form of communication is closely
allied to what is known as "automatic writing" (see
page 174).
The Ouija-board ("Yes-Yes" in French and Ger
man) is similar to the planchette but carries no pencil
and therefore cannot execute designs. The heart-
shaped Ouija, with finger-tips placed as above, is made
to indulge in peripatetic excursions over an alphabet-
board that is the percipient part of the outfit. Al
though, personally, the author is more partial to the
planchette, some astonishing information has "come
through" the Ouija. The following will illustrate an
evidential instance of the Ouija results under the most
casual conditions:
"You seldom get anything convincing with a
Ouija board, but once, I did.
In 1
91 9, I was living at Elton Court, a small
hotel in Portland, Oregon. I had a Ouija. So
did Johnny and Hardy Jenny, who lived on the
fourth floor. I lived on the first.
51
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
One evening another girl who lived there pro
posed that we get the board, and see what we
could get on it. We took it into the lobby,
which, of course, was also on the first floor.
Almost the minute we put our hands on
it,
it
began to spell out curses and ugly remarks. We
took our hands off
it,
to break the connection.
But when we tried
it
again, the same thing hap
pened. A little peeved,
I
asked,
'What are you talking like that for? Don't
you like us?'
It
spelled out, 'No.
I
hate you!'
I
was beginning to get interested, and very
curious, by that time, so
Isaid,
'Who are you? Why do you hate us?' Then
it
spelled
'I
am Jake,
a
German soldier.
I
was
killed in Belgium.' After that, we could get
nothing at all but more curses, so we put the
board away.
Just as we did that, the elevator bell rang, and
the landlord's daughter left her place at the tele
phone switchboard, and took the elevator up. It
came down in
a
minute or so, and Johnny Jenny
got off.
I
said,
'Hello, Johnny. What have you been doing
to amuse yourself?' He looked disgusted, and
answered,
'Aw, for
a
while Hardy and
I
were trying to
work the Ouija-board, but all we could get was
some damn German named Jake. He wouldn't
do anything but swear at us, so we gave
it
up.'
52
TABLE-TURNING, OUIJA-BOARDS AND RAPS
I verified the fact by the landlord's daughter,
that Johnny had been waiting for the elevator on
the fourth floor. There was no possible way for
him to have known what we got on our Ouija.
The girl who ran the elevator had been too far
away to hear anything we said, and the girl who
had been trying to work the thing with me, was
still sitting there talking to me about other things.
She was just as surprised as I was, at what
Johnny said.
And as for him, his eyes fairly bulged and he
looked positively frightened, when I told him
that we'd had 'Jake' too.
(Signed) Violet Olive Johnson."
Raps. Closely allied to table-turning, and indeed,
often accompanying
it,
is
the remarkable phenome
non known as "raps." On page
2
5
is
given the first
account of modern raps. According to Richet, who
has heard only faint raps, this beautiful manifestation
is
rare. However, from the writer's investigations,
raps are sufficiently common with the majority of
powerful mediums.
In the Sydney circle, raps occurred at each sitting,
and so loud, as
a
rule, that everyone heard them to
the point of being startled by them. In daylight,
they were generally faint, but could be made to occur
under one's ear applied to the table, i.e. the raps could
be called from one position to another on simple de
53
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
mand. These fainter raps were exactly as Richet had
described them in his work, "indistinct, small noises,
like scratchings." The sonorous disturbances ap
peared to be some distance in the interior of the wood.
In San Francisco, the medium Hope Darling, can
produce in very brilliant sunlight, raps that may be
heard across a large room. She produced several for
the author, at points and on furniture of his choice
and under controlled conditions. On another occa
sion, also in very bright daylight, she produced raps
in answer to questions, from the wooden back of a
chair, selected by the audience assembled in a large
hall—raps of such power that they could be heard by
everybody including those in the back row, some 120
feet away.
In dealing with raps, one must be on one's guard
against certain sources of error. Furniture, which has
become heated during the day, will often at night
emit a "rap"; table fibres will strain and creak. There
fore an isolated "rap" is no evidence of "spirits."
Again, fish, particularly certain sorts of gold-fish,
carp and tench, give out a curious type of knocking
noise in dim light, or at night time. They produce
the noise with their lips and gills, and sometimes give
forth a whole series of "raps." On one occasion in
Berkeley, California, a bowl of fancy gold-fish fooled
the sitters for quite a time, as detection was rendered
difficult by the fact that when a question was asked,
the fish would make three or more glou-glou noises.
They were not caught at
it,
until they finally overdid
54
TABLE-TURNING, OUIJA-BOARDS AND RAPS
their part, by one of their number jumping out of the
glass bowl.
A consideration of what may be termed the next
step in physical phenomena— telekinesis— is taken up
in the following chapter.
55
Chapter IV
TELEKINESIS
THE MOVEMENT of objects at a distance: the
Greeks have a word for this too— telekinesis. Prob
ably the greatest exponent of telekinetic phenomena
was Professor W. J. Crawford, D.Sc, lecturer in
Mechanical Engineering at Queen's University, Bel
fast. Notwithstanding the aspersions of Fournier
d'Albe, another doctor of science, and formerly a
fellow contributor with the author to The English
Mechanic, Crawford's experiments, extending from
1
9 14 to 1920, are certainly to be regarded as classical.
The Reality of Psychic Phenomena, 19 16; Experi
ments in Psychic Science, 19 19; and especially his
book The Psychic Structures at the Goligher Circle,
192 1.
Crawford examined, as only an engineer can, the
psychic structures at the Goligher circle, but even
before Crawford, Crookes had conducted some
beautiful experiments with that celebrated medium
Daniel Dunglas Home— an erstwhile medical student.
In full light, Crookes saw a pencil raise itself up on
its point and hover above a piece of paper upon
which it had been placed. At first the pencil failed
56
Plate I
TELEKINESIS
to write, but what was his astonishment, when a small
lath, which was lying near the pencil, as if to help
matters, rose into the air several inches so as to allow
the pencil to rest against
it,
in order that
it
might
write! Practically all the well-known mediums, past
and present, have exhibited this telekinetic power in
daylight, or at least in subdued light.
In general, telekinesis
is
concerned with the move
ment of relatively small objects, the table illustrated
in plate
I
being unusually large, although the move
ment of tables and other large pieces of furniture,
including heavy marble statues,
is
not unknown. A
case of table telekinesis under test conditions, and of
particular interest
is
that of the movement of the spe
cially constructed table, so fashioned that
it
was diffi
cult to catch hold of, in the presence of Sir Oliver
Lodge's son, Brodie, at Richet's place at Carqueiranne.
The medium Home, in bright sunlight, out-of-
doors, caused the levitation of this special forty-eight
pound table, and after
it
had gone up into the air,
the observers and medium all stood away from
it,
and
to Richet's delight,
it
remained up.
Another case under test conditions happened to the
author (then
a
man of
1
2
5
pounds) in the course of
his investigations in Sydney, Australia. In bright
moonlight, an enameled bowl two feet in diameter
was levitated from the floor of the kitchen— which
was also the psychical research laboratory. As
it
came to the level of the author's head, he grabbed
it
firmly by both hands but was unable to stay its prog
57
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
ress around the circle, and was carried off his feet and
dragged with the bowl. In this case the medium
(non-spiritualist) was an entirely unknown amateur,
a laundry-cart driver named Norman, aged twenty-
two, weight 130 pounds. The sitters were all skep
tics and comprised chemists, mathematicians and elec
trical engineers— a society of Nicodemus par excel
lence, that met every Wednesday night for several
years without detection! There will be occasion to
refer to this circle again.
Levitation. This is merely a special phase of tele
kinesis applied to human subjects. The classic case
is that of Home, who rose above the heads of the
sitters and made a pencil mark on the ceiling. He
then passed out of an open window of the room on
the first floor, and came back again by another win
dow as if he were swimming in the air. At the ter
mination of the experiment, Home started to laugh,
and when the sitters asked him why, he said "If a po
liceman had seen me, he would not have understood."
Another fine case of levitation of more recent date
is that of Dr. Eugene Osty, the director of the Inter
national Metapsychic Institute of Paris, during experi
ments with the medium Bugik. The hands of the
medium were held, and a heavy armchair upon which
Osty was seated was suddenly taken and raised above
the heads of the sitters, without injuring anyone, then
the chair threw itself onto the table with such force
that it was broken.
TELEKINESIS
The author at the Sydney circle mentioned above
had a strikingly similar experience, though even more
remarkable. Before the regular meeting, the medium,
Norman, and he were admiring an occasional table in
the drawing-room of the house in which the circle
met; suddenly, in the fading daylight, the table began
to move, and in a spirit of fun, the author seated him
self on top of the table, and the table straight away
began to rise in steady fashion, upwards, towards the
ceiling, so that the rider could easily touch the pic
ture railing. The medium kept a contact with the
tips of his fingers on one of the legs, until the author
shouted to him to let go. The table proceeded to
drop slowly like the careful descent of a hydraulic
lift, until it was within about four feet of the floor,
at which point it crashed before the author could
jump off, and two of its four legs were broken.
The record levitation, attested by honorable wit
nesses, was that in which Home AND a piano were
raised in midair.
Mechanics of Telekinesis. It is to Sir William
Crookes and later to Dr. Crawford that we are in
debted for the modus operandi of telekinesis. In one
of the earliest experiments to investigate the mystery,
Crawford took a small table weighing ten pounds and
asked the "spirit" operators to cause its levitation.
This was promptly done, and Crawford found that
this ten pounds was added to the weight of the me
dium! Sir William Crookes had already demon
59
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
strated the same state of affairs in his famous lever
experiments. The experiment was repeated many
times, and the results, subject to small experimental
errors, were always the same. We are now "getting
some place," as our American cousins would say,
since we have definitely established a connection be
tween the medium and the object levitated. Craw
ford also found that when the table was pressed
downward it offered a peculiar elastic resistance, as
though it were floating buoyantly in water. [Cf.
the author's bowl and table experiment, as this pe
culiar floating effect was most marked in all his ex
periments. In that with the inverted bowl, the up
ward pull is best described as similar to that of the
tractive effort on a piece of iron, turning against
muscular resistance, in an enormously powerful mag
netic field. The author carried out many such ex
periments during his electrical training in connection
with flux tests of field coils and pole pieces of genera
tors of 500 kw. and upwards. So from a psycho-
muscular viewpoint he has had ample opportunity
for comparison. There
is,
however, one notable dif
ference—the inverse square law does not hold appar
ently, or most probably
it
is
transcended by the intel
ligent agency that brakes the trajectory of moving
objects.]
Next, Crawford found that there was an invisible
link connecting the medium with the table, for when
he placed his hands in certain places between them,
the table dropped to the floor. Though usually in
60
TELEKINESIS
visible, the substance forming the connecting link—
the ectoplasm of Richet— was palpable; it was cold
and clammy to the touch. He further found that if
his hand was gloved, the table did not drop so readily.
It did not drop at all when he explored the space with
a glass rod.
These latter observations seem to support the old
mesmeric emanation idea!
In the author's Sydney experiments, he persuaded
the intelligent force to operate on a piece of chalk
which was lying on the table within the space formed
by the author's two hands, held so as to form a tent-
shaped cover over the chalk. The idea in mind was
to trap the chalk with a quick movement of the fin
gers, as it was in process of writing in that restricted
space. Although, on various occasions, the experi
ment was tried for several hours, never once was it
possible to trap the chalk before it lay down— which
it invariably did after several finger dartings to snare
it. Unlike the results that Crawford obtained, the
author was unable to detect any ectoplasmic projec
tion attached to the chalk, but he noticed that the
flexing movement of either of his little fingers, which
normally rested on the surface of the table, caused
the immediate drop of the chalk. The flexing of any
one of the other fingers— normally resting on the
proximal border of the little finger—did not at once
cause the chalk to drop. It would seem, therefore,
that the connecting ectoplasm took the line of least
resistance (a usual phenomenon with radiating forces
61
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
and human beings!) and lay along the surface of the
table directly across from the medium, who sat oppo
site the author, three and one-half feet away.
Although in these experiments the author was not
so much concerned with what the chalk wrote, it is
significant that during the last series of experiments,
and as a final mark of impatience it wrote, "Are you
satisfied now, Mr. Cross?" using up the entire space
between the tented hands. Every letter was clear,
and the feat would have been all but impossible to
reproduce, in the few seconds it took, by any normal
means, without the obstruction of the hands, and with
them quite impossible, as the characters extended clear
across, from ulnar border to ulnar border.
Crawford finally found that the ectoplasm ex
truded from some portion of the medium's body,
acted as an arm-like lever which in the case of a table
extended from the lower part of the medium's legs,
curved upwards and made contact with the underside
of the table, virtually a cantilever, but having the
power of elongating and of making itself rigid, or
bending itself to suit the end in view. This was con
clusively proved by the fact that when Crawford
placed weights on the levitated table, the medium's
weight was increased by the same amount. He fur
ther found that the lever action was upset when the
additional weight reached a total of about forty
pounds, the medium toppling forward in her chair
and the levitated table dropping. Final proof was
62
TELEKINESIS
furnished by his excellent flashlight photographs,
which revealed the whole process.
It is important for the student to realize that the
method employed is not always the same, as for in
stance in other experiments by Crawford with levi
tated tables. During a number of these, he found
that despite a great added weight, the table did NOT
cause the medium to lose her balance, and did NOT
increase her weight. In such cases a spring balance
under the floor showed that the ectoplasm had taken
on a strut formation with the elbow portion resting
directly on the floor under the table, before contact
ing the body of the medium.
Abstraction of the large amount of ectoplasm re
quired in the above experiments not only produced a
decrease in the medium's weight, but also produced
a change in her bulk. Crawford upon placing his
hands on her hips and thighs during the extrusion of
the ectoplasm, felt a distinct collapse of her substance.
He records the diminution of her weight as fifty-four
and one-half pounds, i.e., approximately half her nor
mal weight.
In a most fantastic case that was alleged to have
occurred in France (described by Countess Wacht-
meister), the ectoplasmic form— a materialization of
a man— as an experiment went into the cabinet and
came out with the entranced medium in its arms, so
that the sitters could see for themselves that he was
reduced to practically skin and bones. One of the
sitters then asked the entity whether substance was
63
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
withdrawn from the brain of the medium, and was
informed, "No, because insanity would supervene if
we did that."
It has been further shown that this ectoplasm which
conveys the power for telekinesis, in addition to being
sensitive to strong light, is able, even in its invisible
form, to discharge an electroscope. It cannot, how
ever, conduct low-tension currents in order to close
electric bell or other signal circuits. However, it has
been asserted that currents of higher tension are con
ducted by it.
The above experiments, and countless others, have
satisfactorily established the phenomenon of tele
kinesis, and the more recent experiments of Osty, in
which the infra-red and ultra-violet radiations were
utilized in conjunction with photo-electric recording
galvanometric apparatus, have been so scientifically
conducted throughout that they have met with uni
versal acceptance among all men of science.
It is noteworthy, in connection with the experi
ments carried out with Rudi Schnieder as medium,
that they established the FACT that an invisible
"force"— "non-photographable"— could cause the oc
clusion of infra-red rays, and thus permit a perma
nent record and an audible signal when acting. Osty
also found that there was a definite connection be
tween this "force" and the medium's respiration.
Thus has a new epoch in telekinesis been inaugurated,
since, as Sir John Herschel puts
it,
"occurrences
which, according to received opinion, ought not to
64
TELEKINESIS
happen are the facts which serve as clues to new dis
coveries." It is such happenings that caused England's
great physicist, Sir Oliver Lodge, to write, "However
the facts are to be explained, the possibility of the
facts I am constrained to admit. . . . Any person
without invincible prejudice, who had had the same
experience, would come to the same conclusion. . . .
I concentrated my attention on what seemed to me
the most simple and definite thing, viz., the move
ment of an untouched object in sufficient light for no
doubt of its motion to exist."
It seems clear from what we have said that the
"force" is exerted through ectoplasm, and that it re
sponds to the desires of the sitters, which are con
veyed to the "unseen operators." In short, the power
vehicle is ectoplasm. It is the analogue of the ether
by means of which magnetic phenomena— equally in
visible—demonstrate their presence to us.
Further Biological Examples of Telekinesis. In
addition to the instances detailed above, there have
been certain rare cases of persons who seemed to
have had a telekinetic "sense" which was apparently
under the direction of their will. Annie Abbott, "the
little Georgia Magnet," was one of these. It was
stated that she, standing on one leg and holding a
billiard cue, could not be overbalanced by the united
efforts of seven men who pushed the cue. The
author, at Croydon, assisted by four strong men, was
unable to lift little Annie from the floor of the stage
65
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
of the Hippodrome. There seemed no doubt that
she had the power to add a hundred pounds, if not
more, to her normal weight of ninety-eight pounds.
It has been further recorded that Mrs. Abbott could,
by touching a person, cause his levitation; the author
can attest only the weight increase. Miss Mary Rich
ardson had similar powers and, too, was of slight
physique. A mere touch from her hand would
throw a husky man to the ground. The very sim
plicity of the phenomena almost precludes any pos
sibility of fraud. Cf. incident recorded in St. John's
Gospel, Chapter 1 8, verse 6.
Some Peculiar Magnetic and Electro-static Experi
ments. Tests that were made by the author with
Annie Abbott in connection with her influence on
the magnetic needle showed that from her right hand
particularly she emanated a force that could influence
the needle, even to the point of its rapid rotation.
These results have very recently been confirmed by
the Greek S. P. R. with Miss Cleio under strictly test
conditions. This is another indication that the "mag
netic fluid" of the Mesmerists seemingly exists. Un
like the results obtained by Dr. Crawford (page 64),
the Greek society reports that Miss Cleio's telekinetic
energy has no effect on either a charged or uncharged
electroscope.
Professor Zollner in 1877 recorded even greater
magnetic wonders with Slade (see Transcendental
Physics), in that Slade had the power of producing
K
66
TELEKINESIS
in an unmagnetized knitting-needle, held in his hands,
a strong south pole WITHOUT ANY ACCOM
PANYING NORTH! Surely a most amazing phe
nomenon, and one calculated to upset our knowledge
of magnetic laws as taught. Kluski, referred to in a
later page, had the same power.
For those who like to test out their own psychic
power, the experiment illustrated in the sketches will
prove diverting. A. represents a low candle-power
A
supply voltage carbon filament pilot lamp stained red
with a shellac-type of stain. Whilst alight this shel
lac coating is caressed with the dry hand as shown in
A. Then the hand is raised into the air as depicted in
sketch B., and the filament follows it as indicated. The
degree of displacement produced in the filament
varies with different individuals. Those who are po
tential mediums, of the physical type, interfere most
conspicuously with the usual results expected from
this manifestation of electro-static induction.
The French Academy of Sciences, as far back as
1846, reported on the case of the fourteen-year-old
67
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
peasant girl, Angelique Cottin. This child had the
remarkable power— in full daylight— of repelling cer
tain objects. It is certified that in the presence of
large audiences, when Angelique approached certain
objects they darted away from her!
In the next chapter the author will briefly consider
an extension of the subject of telekinesis, which deals,
in addition, with what must be considered as tran
scendental physics—if not as experiments in the fourth
dimension.
68
Chapter V
APPORTS
PROBABLY THE strangest phenomenon of all
Spiritualism is that known as "apports." There are
many biblical instances of meals and divers objects
being apported to the holy men of old, and today in
America, a coloured gentleman by the name of
"Father Divine" appears to exist almost entirely on
"apported" food and money, if we are to believe
popular report. Richet reports a case in which the
recipients of some apported flowers (violets) from a
distance of 250 kilometers, asked the control for a
bank note of 1,000 piastres, the table spelled out, "I
cannot do
it;
that would be
a
theft."
An apport may be defined, for scientific purposes,
as the introduction of an object into the seance room
from outside by supernormal means. A brick thrown
through the window, by
a
skeptic or jealous competi
tor,
is
not an apport, but
if
that same brick came
through the closed window—without breaking the
glass— and
if
no incarnate thrower was attached to
the experiment,
it
would be classed under that head,
especially
if
the brick were one used in the time of
the Pharaohs. Very frequently, apports are actually
69
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
of this character, i.e., next to impossible to obtain by
virtue of the distance in time or space that separates
the seance room from the apported article. In gen
eral, however, apports take on the character of flow
ers, plants, living birds or fruits. Many times edel
weiss from the Swiss Alps has been brought across
the world to confound some skeptical sitter. Many
years ago, the members of Madame d'Esperance's
circle had a plant grown whilst they were singing.
It turned out to be an Ixora Crocata, a native of
India. One of the sitters took it away and placed it
in his greenhouse. It grew for three months, then it
shrivelled up. Full details of this experiment will be
found in Shadowland by Madame d'Esperance.
At a more recent London seance, a heavy trunk
was apported from New York, but the simple re
quest for a copy of the current issue of the New York
Times produced no results. It transpired that the
reason the second experiment failed was that such a
procedure would convince people who had not sought
the truth. It was suggested that it would only be
necessary to have the copy of the New York Times
initialled by a few responsible persons and to have
the fact published in the morning papers, for prac
tically everyone to be convinced (telephotography
was not then perfected, so that explanation was not
available); but this is not what the "spirit world"
intends— apparently anyone wanting to be convinced
must go by the way of Luke, chapter 1 1, verses 9-10.
In the Sydney circle, the author had a very inter
70
APPORTS
esting case of apports. Some writing paper was re
quired and one of the sitters said, "Can't you supply
your own paper?" Almost immediately the speaker
had several sheets of large post quarto paper thrown
in his face. At the end of the evening's work the
writer gathered up the sheets that were still unused;
the next day, hoping to identify the source of the
supply, he began an extensive search of all the whole
sale paper houses. The mechanical engineer of the
Sydney Morning Herald aided in this quest, as he was
a paper expert, and in less than a week the wholesaler
of that particular paper had been interviewed. He
stated that the particular brand had been discontinued
for over twenty years, and that the sheets must have
come from a forgotten source as it was no longer a
brand in current circulation among the trade. A few
sittings later, the control was asked whence he had
obtained the paper, and he described a baker's shop
in Parramatta, the oldest settlement in N. S. Wales
and about fifteen miles distant from the circle.
The shop was ultimately located, and, to the
writer's intense joy, there was found, lying on the
floor among the rafters, several hundred sheets of
paper similar to the apported brand. The owner
stated that he had never been up into the loft, and
could in no way account for the quantity of paper
lying around.
71
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
AN EXPERIMENT IN CHEMISTRY
The most exciting experiment that was carried out
at the Sydney circle was one of great chemical in
terest. A sitter, who was chief analyst in one of the
largest manufacturing chemists' organizations in the
world, brought, at the suggestion of the author, a
sealed tube containing about ten grams of white ar
senic, also a larger sealed tube containing twenty-five
cubic centimeters of distilled water.
When the power was up to the highest point, the
control was requested to transfer a little of the ar
senic trioxide into the sealed tube of distilled water.
This was at once assented to, and the sitters were told
to place the two glass tubes at opposite ends of the
table away from everyone, and on no account to
touch them until the dismissal signal was given.
[At the conclusion of the phenomena— generally at
10:45
p.m.—the roller blind of one of the windows
would go up with a startling rush, and when pulled
down again it was always found marked, in white
chalk letters, "Good Night All."] That evening,
various psychic manifestations took place in quick
succession, as was customary, but no lights or any
other indication that the tubes were being "worked
on" were vouchsafed to us. At the conclusion of the
seance, the chemist took the tubes home, and prom
ised to test them the following morning and to report
to the circle at the next meeting— a promise that was
never kept.
72
APPORTS
Enquiry elicited the fact that Marsh's test had af
forded abundant evidence that arsenic had penetrated
the sealed tube of distilled water. This so horrified
the chief analyst that he refused to be present again
in the circle. His whole conception of chemistry
seemed to have taken a nose-dive. Subsequent en
quiry, on account of his failure to report as promised,
revealed that one of his assistants had also witnessed
the finding of the arsenic, and had noted the change
in countenance of his chief. He was a great chemist
of the old school, but at his time of life, new concep
tions did not take root easily; and a few months after
this episode he died— of a stroke.
Some years after this, a very scholarly physician,
an orthodox neurologist (an F.R.C.P. and M.D. gold
medalist of London) , was fatally stricken with a cere
bral hemorrhage, undoubtedly connected with the
unpalatable facts of ectoplasm which had drifted his
way. Had he completed the work he was studying,
Richet's Thirty Years of Psychical Research, which
the author had procured for him by request, he would
have seen that he could have avoided the acceptance
of the spirit hypothesis (so conflicting with his re
ligious views) , even as Richet himself had done, but
the horrible addition of fact after fact of metapsy-
chics, so lucidly expounded by his French confrere,
proved too much at his time of life, his mind not
being sufficiently flexible to accommodate yet an
other universe of facts. The reader must realize that
we of the younger generation are so used to marvels
73
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
of every sort, that the extension of a few natural laws
or the addition of extra dimensions in time or space
leaves us unperturbed, as our universe has practically
nothing in common with the materialistic concepts
of atoms and molecules that were current in the nine
teenth century.
A Partial Explanation of Modus Operandi. About
all that is known concerning the methods of apporta-
tion is due to an experiment that failed, reported by
Professor Bozzano. The communicating intelligence
was besought to bring the professor a small block of
iron pyrites that was lying on his writing table in a
house about two miles distant from the seance room.
The "spirit" replied by the mouth of the entranced
medium that the power was almost exhausted, but
that nevertheless he would try. Soon afterwards, the
medium began to twitch convulsively, which signified
the arrival of an apport, but no object fell upon the
table. An explanation was asked for and the intelli
gence stated that a portion of the object desired had
been disintegrated, and had been brought into the
seance room, but there was insufficient power to rein
tegrate it. He added, "Light the light." This was
done, and to the intense astonishment of all, it was
found that the table, the clothes and the hair of the
sitters, as well as the furniture and carpet of the room,
were covered with the thinnest layer of brilliant im
palpable pyrites.
When the professor returned home after the sit
74
APPORTS
ting, he found that about one-third had been scooped
out of his little block of pyrites, which was still lying
on his writing table in its accustomed place.
Similar Manifestations. Before passing on to the
next chapter, the author would like to draw attention
to certain apport-like effects that are quite common
in the seance room. First, the presence of cool
breezes is a very frequent occurrence. Sometimes,
indeed, the control states that the breeze actually
comes from the sea or the mountain. Certainly it is
that the introduction of these air-currents— distinctly
felt by all— are able to lower the room temperature
several degrees.
One of the most striking instances of cool breezes
occurred in the circle at Sydney apropos of an apport
that failed. The control had undertaken to bring a
copy of the author's new book, which was lying on
a table in his study at Mosman, a town five or six miles
distant from the seance room, but although the skep
tical and terrified occupants of the house in Mosman
heard the book drop from the table to the floor, the
transfer was not undertaken. No reason was given
for the failure. During the time of the attempt, the
seance room was pervaded by icy draughts, although
neither of the two windows nor the door were open.
Only a few days ago, at Oakland, the writer was
sitting with a powerful trance medium, whom he
hoped to develop along ectoplasmic lines, when sud
denly, despite the hot California sun, such a cold
75
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
breeze was focused on the writer's hands and fore
arms that the hairs stood on end and the skin took on
the goose-flesh aspect. There was normally not a
breath of air stirring. By request, the breeze played
on the writer's cheek, thus substantiating its super
normal character.
At other times, the presence of phosphorus-like
odours are introduced into the seance room; actually
the air is undergoing ionization at these times, due to
the operations of the transcendental mechanism. On
such occasions, it has been possible to show the in
creased discharge rate on such electroscopic instru
ments as the ionometer of Dr. Solomon, the ionizing
chamber alone being in the seance room.
Of still greater interest— especially for the ladies-
is the apporting of perfumes. In his experiments, the
author has had floral perfumes manufactured in the
circle from apported blossoms, and from flowers sup
plied by the sitters, also perfumes introduced in liquid
and in gaseous form, thus constituting true apports.
In the first two cases mentioned, the manufacture of
the scent was generally put down to "Red Indian
maids" or children of other races, whilst in the last
instance the perfumes were ascribed to "spirits" in
general. The writer, who has lived in France, where
good perfume is by no means hard to obtain, can cer
tify that the grade of perfume produced in the seance
room in other countries, where the high cost prohibits
the wide distribution of perfumes of quality, is by no
means likely to be in the possession of either the sitters
1
76
APPORTS
or the medium. He has also been fortunate in having
the corroborative testimony of a French chemist, em
ployed in a perfumery, that the scents were not cheap
imitations, but were the real extract of the flowers
themselves, which in his opinion would be too costly
to use in the wholesale fashion observed at certain
popular and low-priced seances.
Under test conditions it has been observed that:
( i ) the grade of scent is unusually pure and simple
of origin; (2) the directional power of the scenting
agent could only be equaled with an atomizer (dim
light, and all absence of noise precludes the use of
one) ; (3) the intensity of the perfume, in cases where
a sitter says he has not yet detected
it,
can be increased
to
a
most unusually high degree; (4) the perfume
is
less permanent than that found on the market; (5)
when distribution has been made by
a
trumpet, no
trace of the perfume remains in (or on) the trumpet,
which would most certainly not be the case nor
mally; (6) under test conditions, and in full day
light, at Sydney, the author saw drops of perfume
appear on the brow of
a
male medium of very ad
vanced age. There were no flowers in the labora
tory; the medium had been searched and the odour
of the medium's normal sudation was compared, with
negative result.
The Multiplication
of
Food. Dr. Philip
S.
Haley,
a
San Francisco dentist and former professor of bi
ology and histology in the San Francisco College of
77
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
Physicians and Surgeons, has carried out some mag
nificent research with regard to the increase and de
crease of food by psychic agency, a veritable exhibi
tion of what might be termed "Loaves and Fishes-
modern style." Instead of baskets, Dr. Haley uses
modern dishes and sometimes a cocktail shaker for
containers. The experiments were carried out under
the auspices of the California Psychic Research So
ciety, and bear the stamp of most careful and pains
taking work. ALL OPERATIONS WERE CAR
RIED OUT IN BRIGHT LIGHT. The author
has been privileged to take part in twenty or more
experiments with the Haley group and he submits
the following as a typical example of the precise
method of procedure.
The sitters, usually limited to five or six, are di
vided into two groups, the eaters and the checkers.
It is the duty of the latter to observe minutely— not to
say meticulously— the performance of the former.
The eaters, with sleeves rolled up above the elbow,
are allotted seats around the large oblong laboratory
table by the checkers in such positions that they are
at all times in a good strong light and capable of strict
supervision.
The food is brought in from outside— often by
skeptical sitters. Most frequently, types of food are
selected that will remain separate, such as sugared
almonds, jelly beans, diced fruit, etc. If the food has
not already been marked by the officer bringing
it,
marking
is
carried out in the following manner: many
78
APPORTS
small numbered bottles of histological stains are placed
on the table, and a sitter is asked to produce a coin
from his pocket and to observe the last digit of the
date. That figure decides the bottle of dye to be em
ployed. The food particles are then carefully marked
with the aid of a toothpick dipped in the selected dye.
Next, the marked food is placed in the vessel by very
careful double-checked count, and the number of
pieces (thirty or more) recorded by all of the check
ers. A prayer is offered by Dr. Haley for the success
of the scientific experiment, and then the eating by
the selected group commences. A special eating tech
nique is insisted on, so that the food is always visible
to the checkers from the time it is taken from the dish
and introduced into the mouth. The empty hand
has to be shown to all, and on no account must any
one's hand be removed from the table.
The food remaining in the dish is then recounted,
and it is almost always discovered that an increase has
resulted. In about forty-five experiments of which
the author has records, the average increase amounts
to 17 per cent. In three experiments there was a
decrease in the number of pieces.
No difference, macroscopic or microscopic, has
been found in any of the residual food found in the
dish. It is thought that the above experiments are not to
be explained by the usual apportation and deportation
methods; they savor rather of true multiplication of
matter. To clarify this issue, it is proposed to mix a
percentage of barium sulphate (radiological) with
79
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
the food, so that control in the eater's stomach may
be made possible. At present the use of recoverable
melon seeds has at least partially solved the question.
It must be stressed that the dye marks on the increased
food were perfectly in accord with those originally
utilized, thus the apportation hypothesis is rendered
increasingly untenable. Dr. Haley has evolved ap
paratus to differentiate between the normal and ab
normal food; for the most part these appliances re
mind one of the "marble board" indented to retain
glass marbles, only in his case the holes are numbered
and contain food pieces.
Following closely on the alleged food production
by Father Divine, this careful research of Dr. Haley
is of peculiar significance.
80
Chapter VI
INTERPENETRATION OF MATTER
HUMAN CREDULITY is stretched to the utmost
limits when confronted by the rather rare cases of
Unking of rings, extraction of objects from locked
and sealed boxes, interchanging of objects from one
sealed container to another, some distance away.
Many of the finest and best controlled instances of
this class of metapsychic activity are reported in con
nection with the Margery mediumship, in the Journal
of the American Society for Psychical Research,
issues of August and September, 1932. The standing
of Dr. Crandon and his associates makes the hypothe
sis of fraud quite untenable.
Apart from the above well-known cases, the author
offers two that occurred in Sydney at two different
circles, and with two different amateur mediums.
At one of the seances with Norman, two ordinary
wooden curtain rings were placed on the table by one
of the sitters. The control was requested to inter
lock these rings. The sitters were informed that it
would take considerable time to carry out this experi
ment, and were requested to lock the rings up in an
old tea-chest and to place the chest on the mantel
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
piece until the next week's meeting, during which the
sitters would be told when to open it. The instruc
tions were duly carried out and the tea-chest sealed
with string and sealing wax and imprinted with the
private seals of the sitters.
On the following seance night, well towards the
end of the sitting, the control announced that the sit
ters might take the box to the table, and at the con
clusion of the seance, open it in full light after verify
ing the fact that the seals were intact. When the
tea-chest was opened after the circle, the two wooden
curtain rings were found completely interlocked.
These rings were supernormally separated at the sub
sequent sitting, almost at the commencement of the
proceedings. On other occasions many different
types of rings (wood and metal) were similarly
treated, but not at all times would the control attempt
the experiment. In a few cases the interpenetration
was performed during one and the same seance, but
never both interlocking and unlocking.
Interpenetration in Human Tissues. In the course
of another Sydney sitting held with another medium
and in another part of the city, a curtain ring of one-
quarter inch thickness and about four inches in diam
eter was made to penetrate the neck of a male sitter,
at a point just over the hyoid cartilage. The victim
was not in the least surprised, and stated that "they"
would take it out as soon as the lights were turned
out, and testified to the fact that not only himself,
82
INTERPENETRATION OF MATTER
but several of the regular sitters, had been similarly
favoured (?). The medium was a professional pho
tographer. Unfortunately the strictest test conditions
were never observed, due to the belief of the sitters
that such precautions would create a sort of spiritual
istic heresy, and beyond some photographic evidence
of the experiment giving the "before and after" states
of the sitter's neck, no written record of the seance
was taken. The neck of the subject was normal after
the experiment, and no pain was experienced beyond
a slight tickling sensation when the control was "mag
netizing" the neck prior to introducing the ring. The
medium never went under control, nor into any kind
of a trance state. The sittings were always held in
deplorable darkness— "a medium in the hand is worth
two in the dark!" Vide a "spirit" communication from
the Kenneth-Cummings group, San Francisco. We
shall have occasion to refer to this photographer's
group later, as despite the very unscientific conditions,
some unusually interesting evidence was produced.
The Norman circle, on the other hand, was scien
tifically controlled and proper records were kept at
all times of these important experiments. Owing to
the standing of the sitters, it was unfortunately con
sidered unwise to publish any of these records at the
time, as the sitters all feared internment in Callan
Park, a famous mental hospital in N. S. Wales; but
now that death has claimed all but two, no damage
can result by publication of the evidential portion of
this remarkable experience embracing practically all
83
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
forms of mediumship phenomena with a conscious
medium.
How these remarkable interpenetrations are ac
complished we have at present no idea. They are
truly matters of the disintegration of the atoms that
transcend our present notions of physics. These
happenings are rare, but still occur occasionally in
different parts of the world. Although the author
has no other record of the interference in this way
with living tissues, the explanation given by occult
agencies, that the objects are first dematerialized, as
mentioned on page 74, then subsequently reassembled
in a manner that we of the three-dimensional world
could not understand, because there is no language
to convey
it,
seems hardly satisfying to the scien
tific minds of the atom-splitters of our research
laboratories.
84
Chapter VII
LUMINOUS EFFECTS
ONE OF the most fascinating of the seance room
phenomena is the so-called "spirit lights," and as
these usually accompany materialization which, in the
popular mind, forms the apex of physical medium-
ship, the author will describe them next.
In order to introduce the subject intelligently, one
should take a glance at the natural luminous phe
nomena which abound, even in this country. Every
one is sufficiently familiar with the glow-worm, and
in warmer climates the fire-fly. The former most
closely resembles the classical "spirit light," so much
so that when the author had "planted" in a Kentish
seance room several glow-worms which he had gath
ered along the banks of the Hythe canal, they were
all acclaimed as "spirit lights" and duly blessed by
the assembled company. The late Dr. Gustave Geley
says in his famous work Clairvoyance and Materiali
zation that "the vital energy of a medium's body may
be transformed into luminous energy, producing liv
ing lights in all respects similar to normal animal
lights." The glow-worm is the piece de resistance
of animal lights; it has the faculty of lighting up for
85
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
a spell, then indulging in a dark period, during which
it may change its position—like an authentic "spirit
light"— and recommence to glow. Hymn singing
seemed to stimulate the light of the glow-worms, but
prayers left them cold!
The two creatures mentioned are by no means the
only ones that are bio-luminescent. Abundant ex
amples are furnished by plants, protozoa, microbes
and deep-sea fishes. At one time photogenic mi
crobes were bred at the Pasteur Institute for use in
psychic investigation at the International Metapsy-
chic Institute in Paris (see page 94). Professor Du
bois, who wrote La vie et la lumiere (Life and Light),
describes a little creature inhabiting the deep sea,
below 750 fathoms. This beautiful organism has me
dian organs which emit a blue light, and other organs
laterally situated that give forth a variegated light.
The anterior ventral organs emit ruby-red rays, while
the posterior section of this charming creature shines
white, excepting the middle zone, which glows with
a celestial blue. The professor further states "that
the richer the abysses of the sea are in animal life,
the less their obscurity; the darkness of their night is
lit by crowds of living stars, which glitter in the black
water. It would be an amazing sight for an observer
who could penetrate these depths, to see the vault
above, sown with hundreds of millions of shining
dots, among which there move larger creatures, like
fire-balloons of many colours. And, if we could
walk on the ocean floor, we should see groves of lumi
86
LUMINOUS EFFECTS
nous bushes, creeping green asterids and fish scintil
lating with metallic colours ... on the soil there
swarm immeasurable numbers of photogenic microbes
which make the mud of the abyss a luminous carpet."
The professor stated that in course of a dredging
expedition in the Gulf of Gascony, specimens over
six feet high of the Gorgonaceae family of polyps
were brought up on the deck of the Talisman; they
showed a play of light, which faded and revived, pass
ing from violet to purple, from purple to red or
orange, to blue and different tints of green, and some
times to white, like white-hot iron. This change
ability is one of the most curious properties of cold
physiological light. The brilliancy was such that one
could read by
it,
six yards away.
Further information about the strange creatures
that inhabit the deeps
is
given by William Beebe, and
his findings confirm the above. Dr. Beebe obtained
a
marvelous set of photographs of these deep-sea crea
tures taken from his bathysphere apparatus, in waters
off Cuba. The Williamsons, in their specially con
structed diving-bell, reported similar luminosity in
the deeps. Beebe in his bathysphere visited depths of
the ocean so profound (almost three-fifths of
a
mile)
that from
a
diver's point of view they are the equiva
lent of the exploits of Professor Piccard in his strato
sphere research.
The production of cold physiological light
is
there
fore
a
very common phenomena. The millions who
have visited Sydney Harbour and the fine Australian
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
beaches by night are well aware of this, as on certain
nights the sea is a mass of living light due to the pres
ence of myriads of photogenic creatures of micro
scopic size, which atmospheric or tidal conditions, or
both, bring into shore. Fishermen who indulge in
night sport know well the curse of this "phosphorus"
which makes their would-be invisible gut lines light
up like a flaming rope; and the drops of water that
drip from them, as the line is hauled in, flash like
ghostly sparks as they drop back into an ocean of
flickering, darting, streaks of light—which of course
spoils the Ashing! Sometimes this lighting up of the
sea occurs several nights in succession, sometimes it is
not seen for weeks. One of the most unholy sights in
this connection is the pulling in of an octopus—these
abound in Australian waters; when the jellied horror
is still some fathoms down, it resembles a marine pyro
technic display, as the creature lashes its tentacles in
an attempt to get off the hook; and when it is almost
landed its repulsiveness is intensified, since it belches
forth clouds of luminous blue-green spume.
To an Australian, at any rate, it would not seem
so unbelievable that human beings sometimes emit
physiological lights. Sir William Crookes said that
under the strictest test conditions he had seen lumi
nous "points of light" over the heads of various per
sons. These lights were seen to dart about, and to
settle on the heads of different persons. He also men
tions many other larger and more durable lights in
his work Researches in Spiritualism, e.g., with Home,
88
LUMINOUS EFFECTS
Crookes saw a self-luminous solid body, about the
size of a turkey egg, float noiselessly across the room,
rise up to a height that precluded the possibility of
any of the sitters being suspected, and then descend
to the floor.
More recently, the late Madame P. Curie and Pro
fessor d'Arsonval, the grand old man of France's elec
trical world, both dyed-in-the-wool skeptics, stated
that they saw around the head of Eusapia Pallidino,
the celebrated Italian medium, a species of obscure
zone, followed by a luminous zone, similar to the
famous dark space in a Crookes tube. Richet has seen
these light effects upon many occasions, and describes
them as little tongues of fire with Eusapia; as eyes of
fire with Bugik; with Stainton Moses, and especially
with D. D. Home, as balls of fire.
At the Sydney circle, previously mentioned, there
were always many manifestations of these wonderful
lights, and the writer would describe them as balls of
dull green fire, of various dimensions. Mostly their
movements were slow and graceful, but occasionally
there would appear a large, very brilliant bluish or
greenish light in one of the distant corners of the
laboratory. This would be fairly stationary and
would fade out very quickly. Sometimes the air
would be ionized and the characteristic odour of
ozone would be remarked by all. At a San Francisco
circle a wooden cross, taken from a fifteenth century
monastery, when placed on the seance room table,
would light up with soft greenish balls of light that
89
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
conformed accurately to the pattern of the cross. At
this circle a most peculiar noise invariably accom
panied the lights, not unlike that made by a person
striking an old-time wax vesta. Ozonization of the
air was never recorded at this circle.
Instances are given, usually in the past, of lights of
great brilliancy; at a German seance, under strict test
conditions and with fair illumination, a light nearly
blinded a sitter by its intensity as it approached his
face. This recalls recent cable reports about a Mrs.
Anna Monaro, of Trieste, who has a periodical light
that emanates from her breast and lasts for a few sec
onds, then dying away. The light occurs only when
the patient is asleep, and is said to recur at intervals.
The case aroused the interest of Signor Marconi, who
asked that the woman be brought to Rome for the
most detailed scientific examination.
In medical literature cases of pathological lumi
nosity have been recorded in connection with human
beings. These are credited to toxic conditions, bac
terial or chemical in origin.
The author, when on medical duty for the French
Government at Tahiti during the terrible epidemic
of Spanish influenza, watched at the bedside of a
dying missionary and beheld a luminous cloud which
enveloped the head and thorax of the patient. This
was visible by candle light, and lasted about two
hours; all who were near and the whole night staff
saw the phenomenon. The author placed his hand
in the cloud, and it became obscured as by a fog.
90
LUMINOUS EFFECTS
There was no odour nor any other abnormality to
account for its presence. As life departed the cloud
gradually disappeared. Death was due to double
pneumonia. At a distance from the man's bed, the
cloud roughly resembled the conventional "astral
body." It was remarkable that a decrease in the hos
pital illumination produced no marked increase in the
luminosity of the cloud. There is no question that
in the study of these peculiar luminous effects we
have a glimpse of a whole unexplored world, full of
mysteries, before which we are dumfounded. There
are great depths to be sounded. Are not these the pale
and fugitive gleams of intellectual worlds circling
around us and in us? The task is noble. The quest
gives a fresh value to life—even if we fail.
91
Chapter VIII
MATERIALIZATION
THIS CHAPTER is really concerned with what
may be termed "ghosts in the making," and gives an
account of the mechanism that participates in the pro
duction of a visible phantom.
Ectoplasm. Professor Richet has named the ghost-
forming substance "ectoplasm." This was formerly
known by the name of "psychoplasm," a spiritualistic
term, which to the writer's mind is preferable, as it
seems ab initio linked up with things psychic, whereas
Gould's Medical Dictionary defines Richet's word as:
"The exterior protoplasm or sarcode of a cell" a fact
that tends to lead to confusion. Baron von Schrenck-
Notzing employed the word "teleplasm" for Richet's
ghost-stuff. This certainly seems an improvement, in
that it adds an element of distance. But no amount
of Greek nomenclature can obscure the fact that cer
tain persons have the power, under certain peculiar
conditions, of exuding from their bodies a portion of
their substance, even to more than half their weight.
However, as science after all is the dominant influ
ence that shapes the destinies of all things visible and (
92
MATERIALIZATION
invisible, philosophy and religion bow before
it,
even
to the acceptance of its terminology.
In order to give the reader
a
better perspective of
the subject-matter of this chapter, the author will de
scribe at this point
a
scientific "circle," at which ecto
plasm was the predominant manifestation.
THE SAVANTS' SEANCE
Gathered in the laboratory of the International Meta-
psychical Institute of Paris, France, were six scientists
of international reputation and drawn from the ranks
of Physics, Chemistry, Physiology, Psychology and
Medicine.
They made
a
careful search of all the natural cav
ities of the medium, so that she could not conceal even
the proverbial grain of mustard seed. They admin
istered an emetic, also
a
purgative.
Whilst the medium was recovering from the effects
of this treatment, her special sack was prepared.
Shortly afterwards she was sewn therein—with all
stitches at the back.
Apart from this and the gauze veil to be tied over
her mouth, she had no other covering for her slim
white body.
She said she was hungry, that she would like some
steak and oysters. She was given
a
large piece of
bilberry pie.
All was then ready, the medium was hypnotized as
a
preliminary, and then sewn into her sack and carried
93
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
behind the curtain of the rude cabinet in the corner
of the room.
All lights were then extinguished, and save for the
sepulchral glow of the luminous paint on the furni
ture and the faint flickering of the phosphorescent
microbes that depended from the ceiling in large glass
globes, absolute darkness reigned.
There were no less than nine cameras, all at half-
cock, with electrically controlled flash-lighting appa
ratus, to record simultaneously all optically percep
tible phenomena. Presently the medium stirred; she
wailed like some tortured animal whose dying cries
rend the desert night. A faint effulgence seemed to
hover before the cabinet. A sitter went across from
his chair and drew the curtain of the cabinet.
All was then quiet, but in a few moments a reptile
like ectoplasm was seen to issue from the medium's
mouth, passing right through the gauze, in a thick
moving stream of luminous lava. It descended al
most to her feet, and then ascended over her right
shoulder, there to form a face, ghastly but clear.
Someone recognized
it,
and breathed the name of
a
well-known doctor, long since dead.
Silently they watched, drawing nearer to see
if
the ectoplasm bore the tell-tale stains of the bilberries.
It
did not! Therefore
it
seemed pretty certain that
the apparition did not come from by way of the
medium's stomach.
Gradually the image faded and the cloud over the
cabinet grew dimmer and dimmer until
it
disappeared.
94
MATERIALIZATION
The medium appeared completely exhausted. She
was carried to her room and put to bed.
Several similar seances took place with the same
medium, and at length the manifestations became
more and more complete and solid. On one occa
sion a little piece of the ectoplasmic tissue was snipped
off with the aid of surgical scissors, causing immediate
collapse of the medium. Upon inspection it appeared
to be similar to embryonic tissue. It did not dema-
terialize, but merely shrank to a fraction of its former
volume. This specimen was retained at the Institute
and can be seen by interested visitors.
When, finally— during experiments with another
medium—the phantom could resist immersion in a
paraffin-wax bath, not only were moulds and subse
quent casts prepared, but some further light was
thrown upon the origin of the ghost. A chemical
indicator and a dye were added to the melted wax,
so that when the ghostly visitor dematerialized, after
its contact with the hot solution, a trace of its visit
might be carried away. Sure enough, a careful search
of the medium's body revealed the presence of the
indicator from the wax!
THE SOLUTION OF A GREAT MYSTERY
From the above ascertained facts, and from other
evidence that will be presented shortly, it seems fairly
certain that the major portion of the spectre must be
from the medium. The principal point establishing
95
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
this fact is the loss of weight by the medium as re
corded by an electrical balance, and further, the fact
that after many unsuccessful attempts, it has recently
been possible to persuade the phantom to come into
contact with a special electrical balance. Thus a rec
ord of the weight of the ghostly visitor was obtained.
This weight approximately corresponded with the
amount of weight lost by the medium. In addition
to the above, it was found that when the demateriali-
zation was complete, the weight lost by the medium
was restored. The slight discrepancies in the vari
ous weights were explained by the hypothesis that
some of the manifestation is drawn from the sitters
themselves.
The identity of "spirit" hands has been verified, to
some extent, by the Bertillon system of fingerprints,
but usually, although fingerprints can be obtained
from the ectoplasm, none are available from the origi
nal source.
In the French experiments, other methods of iden
tification have established beyond all reasonable doubt
the identity of the phantom; some relatives and
friends of the ghostly visitant are still engaged in the
research work of the institute.
Whether the impress of recognizable personality
on the ectoplasmic emanation from the medium is
from beyond, or simply a psychologic phenomenon
associated with the subconscious mind of the medium,
or the sitters,
is,
for many, still
a
problem to be solved.
All the author seeks to do
is
to establish the fact, so
96
MATERIALIZATION
that ignorance or prejudice will not cause the reader
to lag behind the progress of knowledge. The rest
must remain for the present a matter of personal
opinion.
It seems fairly certain that the laws governing the
conservation of matter and energy are in no way
jeopardized; the general depression, fatigue, hunger
and nervous depletion of all who seriously engage in
psychical investigation indicate the direction in which
we should seek when trying to discover the origin of
the necessary energy required to rap tables or to move
objects without visible contacts. The reader is re
ferred to former chapters in this connection, where it
was shown that the increase of power furnished to a
table that was being "turned," when numerous hands
were lightly placed upon
it,
is
most readily explained
by the modus operandi of ectoplasm in some of its
allotropic modifications.
SOME POINTS IN QUESTION
In dealing seriatim with some of the points that may
be raised in the mind of the reader, let
it
be first
stressed that the above facts are by no means unique;
that no scientist who has examined the matter for
a
period of two years has ever turned in
a
negative re
port as to their genuineness. Today the majority of
scientists and of other scholarly persons know that
the phenomena are true. The authority of big names
will in course of time convince everybody of the ab
solute authenticity of spiritualistic phenomena.
97
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
Second, no one denies that fraud exists, that there
are charlatans and fakers involved in spiritualistic
seances. But it is usually safe to conclude that, where
there is an imitation there is also a genuine original.
The Question of Fraud
Fraud is of two kinds: the conscious, just mentioned,
in which the medium resorts to cheap trickery for
an indifferent audience, and which is easy to detect
when men of magic and men of science get together;
and the unconscious fraud, which usually occurs in
the trance state and is manifested by the medium
seeking to execute, normally, movements to produce
phenomena which should be produced supernor-
mally; e.g., in the Metapsychic Institute seances, the
medium dragged his two controllers over to an
electric light switch and extinguished a light, which
in the usual course of events was supernormally put
out by the medium from his controlled position some
yards away, by the agency of ectoplasm serving in a
telekinetic sense. Other examples of unconscious
fraud, of which the medium is as innocent as Mother
Machree's canary, will be found on page 1 8 1 .
According to Stanley de Brath—and indeed many
others— mediums who have once been detected in
fraud should be blacklisted forever. Richet, on the
other hand, takes a much more lenient view, in that
he states that "Unhappily all these great mediums who
produce physical effects have a nearly invincible ten
98
MATERIALIZATION
dency to fraud, which renders still more difficult an
irreproachable attestation."
To exclude fraud, every honest precaution should
be taken to make it physically impossible. The two
best preventives are (i) hold no seance in complete
darkness; it is unnecessary; (2) control the medium
by having—not his friends—but an experimenter on
each side of him, crooking his little finger into those
of the medium. If some such precaution is not taken,
the medium may cheat unconsciously as stated above,
because the suggestibility of the medium in the
trance state is unduly high, and he will always follow
the line of least resistance; in other words, he will not,
unless prevented from using more convenient tools,
employ a steam-hammer to crack a nut! It will be
realized that every seance that is uncontrolled is sus
pect, and therefore void of any scientific value.
The author's own method in working with a new
medium is to give full latitude for the first few sit
tings, until the medium and sitters and the conditions
are well synchronized, then to tighten up the control,
much in the same manner as the railway inspectors on
English railroads pounce down upon the regular pas
sengers with "All season tickets please."
In regard to methods of control, these should not
savour of the Spanish Inquisition. Some investigators
have on occasion bound their mediums so tightly that
the attachment cut the skin of their ankles or wrists
and drippings of their blood were found upon the
floor! Everywhere the search of science has proved
99
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
a severe strain on the delicate nervous system of the
medium. The late Dr. Geley was moved to write of
Eva C, whose real name is Marthe Beraud, of Algiers,
that "Her experimental honesty was absolute. The
intelligent and self-sacrificing resignation with which
she submitted to all controls and truly painful tests of
her mediumship, deserve the real and sincere grati
tude of all men of science— worthy of the name."
As has been intimated in the seance detailed on
page 93, the medium is usually stripped, searched, etc.;
not infrequently mediums themselves suggest this
plan to their investigators. The garment the medium
is then to wear may be decorated with luminous arm
lets, so that the slightest movement can be followed
even in the obscurity. Needless to say, this garment
and any slippers should be thoroughly inspected, if
they are the property of the medium, or his "battery"
(the friend he brings with him to take care of him;
to afford moral if not actual physical support).
When limbs are to be attached to furniture, the
ties should not be of rope, string, etc., but of dental
floss— a silky thread that knots in such a way that it
is almost impossible to untie it without cutting. Quite
a while ago, Mrs. Corner, nee Florence Cook, was
secured in part by strands of filosel silk—a material
similar to dental floss— at one of her famous sittings
during which she materialized complete ectoplasmic
beings, who spoke several languages and took on all
the characteristics of life during the brief spell of
their now temporary terrestial existence.
IOO
MATERIALIZATION
Another very widely used method of attachment
for mediums is that provided by strips of court-
plaster, nailed down to the arms or legs of the chair,
after having been securely fastened to the medium's
limbs.
The furniture may, with advantage, be outlined in
luminous paint—at least in part— so that any move
ment of the medium or the sitters may be detected.
The sitters, too, must be controlled if the results are
to have the maximum of scientific value as evidence.
In some laboratories the chairs of medium and sitters
are wired up to a signal system that indicates defi
nitely, should any person leave his place. Professor
d'Arsonval, Cromwell Varley—world-famous elec
trician—and indeed others have caused an electric cur
rent to circulate through the medium. Varley found
that during Florence Cook's materialization of the
celebrated "Katie King," the current flowing through
the galvanometer in circuit with the medium was not
interrupted for a single instant!
USE OF HYPNOTISM IN PSYCHIC EX
PERIMENTATION
With regard to the use of hypnotic procedures, this
is generally inadvisable, although it is well known
that during a medical hypnosis, for instance, many
of the so-called occult manifestations occur— indeed,
it is alleged that many people who are normally not
"psychic" may be made so after repeated hypnotic
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
treatment. The experience of the writer does not,
however, bear this out, as the one or two cases that
showed marked clairvoyant powers during hypnosis
gave evidence of such powers when in the normal
state. Also in the case of the induction of hypnosis
as a preliminary to psychic experimentation as above,
one must always bear in mind that the rapport which
exists between the operator and the subject is most
likely to influence the character of the manifestations
in favour of the conscious or unconscious desires of
the hypnotist.
Favourable Illumination, Etc. The question of lights
is of vast importance, as naturally the worth of the
testimony largely depends upon visual observations.
Generally no adverse effect is felt by the medium, and
therefore no objections are raised by his "invisible
control" to the employment of a red lamp of not too
great a brilliancy—at least after the first few seances.
During the last years of experimentation with Eva C,
it was possible to inspect her ectoplasm by red and
even white hand lanterns. But with some mediums,
even a bright luminous paint illumination proves too
much at times.
It is a matter of history that in the past the appari
tions withstood much greater illumination than in our
days. Accounts of ancient seances held by the origi
nal investigators frequently speak of subdued day
light, low gas-light, sitters striking matches to see
more clearly, etc.
1 02
MATERIALIZATION
With us, in this day and age, we find that, although
a medium very carefully screened from the flash of
photographic apparatus is relatively unaffected, the
ectoplasm itself is generally adversely influenced, it
being even more sensitive to shocks of various kinds
than the medium who extruded it. In one test sitting
it was found that the lighting of a hall lamp, which
shone through the ground-glass laboratory door, de
layed the production of ectoplasm for an hour and a
half. To the medical reader this will be comprehens
ible, and in no way in conflict with the principles of
biology, when it is considered, for example, that the
sensitivity of a neoplasm to radiation treatment is in
direct proportion to its rate of growth. And, if any
thing at all, ectoplasm is a highly proliferous tissue.
SOLIDITY OF FORMER MATERIALIZA
TIONS
Old-time spectres were certainly better and more
complete than the majority of those that are seen
today. For instance, in 1874 with the fifteen-year-
old Florence Cook, "Katie King" was so completely
materialized that Sir William Crookes was enabled to
indulge in osculation, as well as very thorough auscul
tation, and certified that in the former case the lips
of the phantom were in no way different from those
of a human being, and in the latter research it was
amply evident that "Katie" had a complete respira
tory and circulatory system, the heartbeat being as
103
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
pronounced and as normal as that of a living human
being. He further stated that on one occasion, in
his laboratory, he saw not only "Katie," but that he
saw her, "moving, breathing, at the side of her me
dium, Florence Cook." Then he recounts that upon
one sad day the phantomatic "Katie King" declared
that she was forced to leave, and turning to the en
tranced Florence Cook she touched her and cried,
"Wake up, Florence, I must go now." Then we are
told that Florence duly awakened and with tears in
her eyes supplicated "Katie" to stay longer, but her
pleadings were in vain. Katie with her white dress
disappeared into thin air. She was never seen again
by Sir William or by anyone else.
THE RETURN OF "KATIE KING"
Over fifty years have passed since these historic ex
periments of Crookes; the scientist himself has gone
to a fuller life, but "Katie King" has apparently re
turned to mortality. Her intended return visit to
this land of woe was announced at a circle of highly
trained investigators in Winnipeg, Canada, under the
direction of a Canadian surgeon, the late Dr. T. Glen
Hamilton. The promise was fulfilled a short time
later, and on November 12th, 1930, the beautiful
face of "Katie" was materialized under the strictest
scientific conditions, and in a laboratory that out
rivaled that of the famous Sir William Crookes. In
Plate II, Part I we reproduce a plan of the Hamilton
104
MATERIALIZATION
fan, i rta liahh,
QramotfooM tc photo*
'flash- lights
Vzzzzzgzzzzzzzzzzzzzz&zzz. ^ ~"~d
PlateIII, Part I
105
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
laboratory and in Part II of Plate II is shown the
battery of cameras and other photographic appa
ratus, all electrically controlled (see D) . The flash
light accessories are depicted at A, B and C. Notice
that two stereoscopic cameras are included in the bat
tery (see i and 8). The photograph should be
studied in conjunction with the plan of the labora
tory. The numbered chairs are for the sitters. M.M.
is the medium's seat.
The laboratory of the International Metapsychic
Institute of Paris is somewhat similar in construction
and arrangement, but here electrically controlled bal
ances are included as mentioned on page 96.
With regard to the actual materializations them
selves, unfortunately the "Katie King" of Sir William
Crookes' day did not seem specially anxious to have
her lovely self photographed— a most marked piece
of evidence of the non-mortal character of this young
lady! Some photographs were, however, obtained,
but with the exception of those rescued by Mr. T.
Blyton, one of Professor Crookes' assistants, they
were said to have been destroyed by Sir William's
family, from dislike of the whole subject. Mr. Stan
ley de Brath, who died recently, possessed two of the
former, was unconvinced that the Hamilton "Katie"
is the same entity as that which graced the laboratory
of Crookes over a half-century ago. The face, despite
its original youth and pristine beauty—an indication of
the timeless state of the hereafter!—is not the same as
that which Crookes photographed. That the face is
106
Plate II, Part II
Modern laboratory and equipment for psychic research.
( Courtesy of the late Dr. Glen Hamilti
MATERIALIZATION
beautiful will be apparent from photograph A of plate
HI. B is a microphotograph of the veil that is worn by
"Katie" in A. The press clipping below will furnish
the reader with important details.
"katie king"
(Published by special permission of Dr. T. Glen Hamilton)
The photograph was taken by Dr. T. Glen
Hamilton November 12, 1930 in his laboratory
at Winnipeg, Canada, under conditions fully es
tablishing its supernormality. (For full descrip
tion of "Katie King" materialization phenomena
see "Psychic Science" of Jan. 1933.) The face
here seen took form at a distance of five feet or
slightly more from the floor and several feet
distant from any person in the room. The white
mass below the side of the face and the chin is a
part of the teleplasmic shell which overcovers
these face-forms during their earlier stage of de
velopment and which is discarded when they are
ready to be photographed. Surrounding the face
may be seen supernormal hair and a supernormal
veil, the texture of which in both cases seemingly
corresponds to certain material objects belonging
to our physical world. (See enlarged photograph
of veil.)
Out of the battery of cameras trained upon the re
turn of "Katie," seven recorded the veil, and five the
107
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
face and hair. No less than four mediums were ascer
tained to be in a state of trance at the moment of the
taking of the photograph reproduced in A. It is in
teresting to note that after some twenty fruitless sit
tings, on February 25th, 193 1, "Katie" reappeared in
more substantial form and more in the centre of the
laboratory and without the use of a cabinet.
Peculiarities of Modern Materializations. Despite
the cooperation of several mediums and perfected
technique, neither "Katie" ( 193 1
edition) nor any
other apparition has come forth with the amazing life
like characteristics that are associated with the earlier
work. This is the general experience of all investiga
tors. The writer has had reported to him many full
and completely lifelike materializations that have oc
curred in America and elsewhere, but none of these
have taken place under definitely test conditions. All
attempts that the writer has made to witness them have
met with refusal. The photograph C. in Plate III, is
reproduced by courtesy of the Metapsychic Institute
of Paris and is one of the products of the famous Eva
C. The reader will observe that the face, though pos
sessing beauty, is rather flat in appearance. And,
indeed, unlike the one in A. which the stereoscopic
cameras showed to be three-dimensional, this Eva C.
product is only two-dimensional. As a matter of
record it might be added that numerous critics— of
the journalist type—alleged that the learned scientists
had been fooled with a cover from a French illus
trated magazine. Fortunately it is becoming less
108
MATERIALIZATION
fashionable to introduce that type of refutation in
connection with scientific experiments carried out by
persons whose honour is absolute, and whose anterior
experimental record is one of irreproachable com
petence.
True, all those who published their experiments,
even though Nobel prize-winners, knew in advance
that they would be subject to mockery and vilifica
tion from their colleagues; and the sarcasm of the
crowd. "It would be difficult for our journalist to
imagine," said Charles Richet, "what a physiologist,
like myself, thinks when he sees the structure that his
masters have built up for him throughout the years,
topple over-night, and the lessons he has learnt, all
discounted by the phenomena of ectoplasm— the
agony of it all!"
Richet calls the evidence such as that presented in
this book, "the inhabitual," and declares, "It is
impossible to deny this evidence; it is affirmed by a
noble pleiad of scientists of the front rank, and de
spite the criticism of the first journalist that comes
along, asserting that Crookes was the victim of an
illusion, that Crookes was an imbecile, etc., one must
always place the estimates of that opinion alongside
the mentality of the savant who is criticized, and
recall that the journalist discovered neither thallium
nor the vacuum tube which made X-rays possible."
Quite naturally, all men of science who have con
firmed the phenomena in question have made every
effort NOT to admit the extraordinary! But, once
109
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
convinced, they have not feared to destroy them
selves by publishing their findings.
In the more recent work of Dr. von Schrenck-
Notzing, over a hundred German scientists took
part; among them were twenty-three university pro
fessors, eighteen medical men and nineteen distin
guished students of psychology. All these certified,
in a signed statement, that they were all in accord
that the hypothesis of fraud was quite untenable, and
that they arrived at this conclusion most circum
spectly. The fact that Schrenck-Notzing and Richet
at that time never accepted the spiritualistic explana
tion of the phenomena should convince skeptics that
we are here dealing with actual facts. Geley put it
very poignantly when he wrote, "The repeated af
firmations by reliable experimentalists, their cer
tainty of its objective reality, the similarity of the
phenomena observed, and the experimental details, do
in fact constitute scientific material which must,
willingly or unwillingly, demand the attention even
of the most prejudiced against metapsychic studies."
Some Further Points of Evidence. There are some
highly technical ways of ascertaining the origin of
the spectral visitant—or at least the more material part
of him. The chemical detection alluded to on page
95 was made possible by means of adding a dye such
as methylene blue or methylene violet to the molten
wax into which the spectre was induced to dip its
anatomy. In addition, a further indication was pro
1 10
MATERIALIZATION
vided by the addition of cholesterin—a monatomic
alcohol found in the blood, nerve tissue and bile.
Traces of this substance were later found on the me
dium's body after the dematerialization of the ecto
plasm, thus conclusively proving the source of the
ectoplasm. "Anatomy" is used advisably above, as
there were upon occasion other wax moulds than
limbs. Faces were often partially moulded at the In-
stitut Metapsychique de Paris. From Richet's La
Grande Esperance we learn that during one of their
famous seances "the persons present said, 'We wish to
have a mould up to the elbow!' Another said, 'We
wish to have the mould of a child's foot.' Then
Geley's patience became exhausted and he exploded
with 'Why not a backside!' Some time later there
was a great splash in the paraffin-wax bath, and several
of the sitters were sprayed with the hot wax. It was
the moulding in paraffin-wax of a posterior, so fine
and fragile that a cast could not be taken!" Phan
toms are nothing if not obliging!
There is further, almost universal agreement among
the accounts of the evolution of ectoplasms from the
mediums under test in many different parts of the
earth. The visible forms noted are as follows: the
vaporous and the solid, the latter being an amorphous
protoplasmic mass usually white or bluish-white, as
photographed in fig. i of plate IV, but sometimes
grey, green, pink, flesh colour and often black. Pink
is a very rare shade, so also is green; the author has
seen only two examples of these shades, the former y
in
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
in Australia and the latter in San Francisco. It is
also known that ectoplasm can exist in intermediate
forms such as liquid (see page 125). Sometimes the
ectoplasm is warm and "human" to the touch, while
at other times it is cold and clammy, like thick starch
but with more adherent qualities. The fact that it is
associated with intelligence is borne out objectively
by the experiments in which the "control" was asked
to procure more thick mouldings in the wax. To ef
fect this, the limbs of the apparition were actually
lowered in temperature many degrees, so that the wax
would cool rapidly, thus providing a thicker and more
perfect moulding of what had been inside
it,
and
therefore
a
better cast could be taken. The wax
bath, which
is
situated some feet from the medium,
is
kept at melting-point by floating the wax over hot
water electrically heated to the appropriate tem
perature.
The credit for the first use of waxen moulds ap
pears to be due to Denton of the United States, who
devised the process as early as 1875.
The taking of wax. moulds from "spirit" forms
is
by no means new, as in the late eighties Alfred Smed-
ley took some moulds through the mediumship of
a
Miss Wood of Newcastle. In his book Some Remi
niscences, he states that his purpose was to secure
moulds of "spirit" hands and feet while the medium
was screwed up in
a
cage. Concerning putting me
diums in cages, there
is
an amusing incident that oc
curred in New York
a
short time ago, in which
a
Plate IV
Fig. I Fig. Ill
Fic. IV
MATERIALIZATION
"control" refused permission to allow psychic investi
gators to place "his" medium in a cage they had care
fully prepared for him. It is stated that a "direct
voice" was heard to exclaim, "The idea, do you think
my medium is a gorilla?"
Not all the famous materializing mediums can
evolve a grade of ectoplasm that is sufficiently solid
to produce wax moulds. Eva C., for one, had not
sufficient substance to her ectoplasm. Franek Kluski,
on the other hand, had a very solid and resistant brand
of ectoplasm. Figure 2 in plate IV gives a typical
Kulski production. These beautiful wax gloves were
taken from materialized hands at Warsaw in Poland.
It was during this experimentation with Kluski in
1924 that Gustave Geley met his untimely end with
his pilot as they were flying from Warsaw. When
nearing Le Bourget, the plane crashed and caught
fire, and the two were burned to death. Geley was
found amidst the debris clutching in his hand a plas
ter cast taken from one of the moulds such as shown
in figure 2 in plate IV. It is assumed that he was
examining this at the time the plane crashed. The
opponents of spiritualism point out this incident, with
unholy enthusiasm bordering on joy, as a warning of
what will inevitably happen to all those who have
intercourse with "spirits."
Geley was in every sense of the word a Christian
character, and after his countless experiences in psy
chic investigation he came to the conclusion that these
psychic faculties are very strong indirect evidence for
113
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
survival of bodily death. And his immediate suc
cessor at the Metapsychic Institute, the gifted Dr. Eu
gene Osty, recognized that "there is another intelli
gent plane of being, usually not manifest, which prob
ably represents the fundamental reality of ourselves
and forms part of a plane of life quite different from
that in which we exercise our ordinary intelligence."
Another convert to St. Paul's philosophy!
THE BIOLOGY OF ECTOPLASM
In addition to the rude classification of ectoplasm
given on page 1 1 1, there are other notable points to be
discussed. In its evolution from the medium, there
are four well-marked phases: (i) invisibility; (2)
vapour-like, or fluid thread extending from the body
of the medium—this is partially visible; (3) tangible
and quite visible and defined— but often amorphous;
(4) the distinctly human aspect.
It has been asserted that the reason that modern
materializations do not—as a rule—compare with those
of former years is that the teaching value of the pres
ent imperfect variety is greater. Certain it is that we
learn through failures, and in a careful study of the
science of ectoplasmic formation we are conscious of
the fact that, from a biological point of view, a great
secret resides therein; a profound mystery is partially
manifested to us as we watch the evolution of a form
from start to finish—a revelation of the highest knowl
114
MATERIALIZATION
edge; a divine consummation hitherto denied mor
tal man.
Close study reveals the similarity of the ectoplasmic
"creation" to that of the butterfly in its "cabinet"—
the chrysalis. If we open a chrysalis we find a milk-
white fluidic substance that gives no more clue to the
future Red Admiral than does the similar fluidic mass
that pours out of Eva C. to the materialized young
lady of plate III a.
Nature uses the same raw materials— carbon, hy
drogen, nitrogen and oxygen—and by ringing the
changes on these, can "materialize" anything from a
microbe to a man. Ante-natal life takes place in the
dark; we see, hear and think in the darkness of the
skull. Also we develop our photographs in the dark,
or, as with the development of ectoplasm, we may,
provided we do not overdo
it,
introduce
a
red light
to aid our operations.
Most assuredly very little
is
known about the phe
nomena of materialization; the scanty knowledge
available comes from the study of fragmentary ecto
plasms. One fact
is
certain, ectoplasm possesses the
quality of what Durand de Cros has called "ideoplas-
ticity," which means that the form that the ectoplasm
will accomplish
is
conditioned by the "idea" im
parted to
it
from an extrinsic intelligence. This ex
ternal influence may come from the sitters or from
the medium or from another, as yet, imperfectly rec
ognized source, not to say discarnate intelligence.
A further very remarkable fact concerning the bio
"5
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
logical manifestations of ectoplasmic phantoms is well
illustrated in figure 3 of plate IV. Here it will be
seen upon close inspection of the region over the right
eye of the medium, Mrs. Poole, that there is a face in
miniature. This is the visage of Charles Haddon
Spurgeon. The production of such miniatures both
in two- and three-dimensional manifestations is by no
means uncommon. Many of the casts at the Paris
Metapsychical Institute are very obviously taken
from moulds made from adult hands and feet in mini
ature. They are not those of a child, and the possi
bility of fraud of this kind is eliminated by the fact
that no child was present in the laboratory when they
were obtained. Again, we have many records of
complete "living" materializations that can be sup
ported on the palm of the hand; Bozzano recounts
several examples, and one of the best is that given by
Madame Bisson working with Eva C. in which a
charming little woman appeared, naked, and so small
that she could be held comfortably in the hand. This
little lady smiled and looked about her with evident
pleasure during her brief existence. Nature, too,
creates dwarfs and midgets!
To explain these small materializations, Bozzano
advances the theory that the medium has not sufficient
strength to make a large phantom, and thus produces
a small one.
It is a remarkable fact that an exact parallel is found
in connection with hypnotic experimentation. With
many different subjects the author of this work has
116
MATERIALIZATION
found that "suggested" persons were immediately
"produced" to the subject, but satisfaction was not
complete, the subject wore a perplexed look, and
upon being interrogated— sometimes the statement
was spontaneous— the hypnotized person would ex
press great astonishment that the friend or relative was
so small! To effect a change, the author had only to
make a pass over the supposed person, and the sub
ject's countenance would undergo a change, and his
eyes would travel upwards, as if he were regarding
the growth of the alleged person. Invariably he
would remark that conditions were now satisfactory
and that the stature of the person was normal.
It must not for a moment be supposed that the
author is seeking to establish the fact that materiali
zation (or any other phenomena of spiritualism, for
that matter) is the result of hypnosis; all that he is
attempting to do is to draw attention to the fact that
the ideoplastic mechanism is strikingly similar in both
cases. In hypnosis its operation may be said to re
sult in what has been termed "eidetic imagery,"
*
which is almost certainly wholly subjective, and
NOT "photographable," whereas in spiritualistic ma
terialization, it results in a wholly objective phantom
which IS "photographable." Right here, let it be em
phasized that the camera may be regarded as the su-
*
The apparent persistence of a subjective image in space, so that
the observer concerned— and only he— even though his attention be
momentarily distracted, would seek the image in the same space loca
tion, giving the illusion to other observers that he was seeing an
objective image.
II7
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
preme test of objectivity. Dozens of people know a
man who knew a man who saw the famous Indian
rope trick, but despite the fact that this feat takes
place in the open air and in full daylight, i.e., under
excellent photographic conditions, no proofs of this
nature are forthcoming; indeed, in a case in which a
camera was employed the plate showed the rope and
the famous boy on the ground, although the mass-
hypnotized (?) spectators "saw" the rope perpen
dicular to the heavens with the boy climbing up it
and finally disappearing into thin air!
The phenomena of psychic research no longer de
pend upon mere unattested evidence of what the
senses have perceived, and what has been recorded
under unsatisfactory conditions. Photographic and
cinematic procedure— the latter first used by
Schrenck-Notzing— allied to the photo-electric mea
sures of Osty, together with the older electro
mechanical and, indeed, hydrostatic methods— as in
the case of "Margery" (see page 1 80) —have given in
formation on the normal or supernormal origin of
psychic phenomena, which is as correct and as re
liable as any other piece of knowledge gleaned by
modern laboratory methods. Since, in the words of
Clerk Maxwell, "Progress is symbolized in the clock,
the balance and the foot rule," we can assuredly claim
to have advanced along the path of truth, because we
have timed, we have weighed and we have measured
the "miraculous."
118
MATERIALIZATION
The Minutiae of Ectoplasm. There are one or two
aspects of ectoplasm which should be emphasized in
order that the reader may have definite ideas as to its
genesis and properties. As has been mentioned, the
most striking attribute of ectoplasm is its ideoplastic
tendency. Then there is the question of the corre
spondence of origin to be dealt with. It was asserted
by some American investigators that the ectoplasmic
tissue was drawn from the corresponding part of the
medium, for example: to speak, the phantom needs a
larynx, and to get this specialized organ he must per
force "borrow" from the larynx and vocal chords of
the medium. This, however, is without much foun
dation (see, however, page 178), as by the staining
methods referred to it was conclusively established
that the ectoplasm for arm and foot and face moulds
was drawn from the genital region, at least in some
of the experiments. Again, in the author's Sydney
investigations with Norman, the medium and ALL
THE SITTERS had full operation of their vocal
organs at the time a partially materialized phantom
was preaching—a distinctly third-rate sermon. Nor
man frequently complained, during this performance,
of cramps and burning pains in the solar plexus area.
As a general rule, ectoplasm emanates from the
natural orifices of the medium—the mouth, the nose,
and more especially the vagina (see figure 1, plate
IV) . It has been observed also from the navel, issu
ing forth like a luminescent umbilical cord to which
is attached a virtual phosphorescent fetus. Extrusion
119
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
from the fingertips and nipples is relatively frequent.
A general integumentary origin is probable in some
cases.
All the great ectoplasticians, Richet, Geley,
Schrenck-Notzing, etc., describe it as "a sort of
sinuous, reptilian substance emanating from the body
of the medium." Indeed, not a few state that the sen
sation produced by ectoplasm, coming into contact
with the skin of a sitter, is akin to that produced by
the glide of a living snake.
It is noteworthy that, although the finished phan
tom may have all the attributes of life, even down to
the power of clouding lime water by its exhalation of
CO2, the recording cameras, focused on the back of
the spectre, show that the basic ectoplasm is a de
cidedly block-like matrix material of a strictly amor
phous character, even though hair, well differentiated,
may be in apposition. This amorphous character of
the basic ectoplasm will be apparent from figure 4 in
plate IV, in which a very complete and beautifully
clear face, possessing the soulful eyes of an alleged no
vitiate, is surrounded by a mass of what—in the pho
tograph—might be interpreted as a crude attempt at
plaster-bandaging.
Another point of interest, in addition to the pre
viously stated fact that the mouldings of adult hands
and feet are of children's size, is the certainty of their
supernormal origin, confirmed by the fact that there
is no known method of withdrawing from a one-piece
mould a human hand, interlocked and with fingers
120
MATERIALIZATION
bent, as in many of the Institute's collection. It has
been stated, nevertheless, that Professor Poller of
Paris has developed a process for accomplishing even
this declared-impossible feat. However, it may be
assumed that the sworn statements of police and of
plaster-casters are a fully sufficient guarantee against
fraud.
Again, inspection of the models of these casts shows
many small, fine hands, complete to the wrist; all
nails are clearly impressed, as also the fine delicate
lines of the knuckles, joints and palm. But it was the
fingers that most astonished the experts in modeling
and sculpture, as these were so slender and so per
fectly formed and in a bent position. One and all
are agreed that these casts were taken from LIVING
HANDS.
In the earlier experiments the methods were not so
scientific as that employed at the Metapsychic Insti
tute, but Signor Bozzano, whose work has been re
cently translated into English by Stanley de Brath,
gives a detailed account of an impressive seance at
which Madame d'Esperance was the materializing me
dium, and a Greek entity, "Nepenthes" by name, ap
peared and with a materialized hand wrote a message
in ancient Greek characters in the notebook of one
of the sitters— a professor. No one present could read
the writing, any more than they could in the first ac
count of a materialized hand that wrote by candle
light for Belshazzar; but next day a Daniel was found
and the message was translated into modern Greek.
121
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
This same sitter— like Sir William Crookes— was fa
voured with a kiss from lips which Herr E. said "were
soft and warm." The light of this apparition, he
added, seemed to radiate from the body, not from the
garments, as is usually the case. "Nepenthes" was
induced to plunge her arm into melted wax, and the
account states that "The sound of dipping and splash
ing in water went on for several minutes in the
shadow of the curtains (of the cabinet), when we
saw the gleaming white figure bending over the ves
sels. Then it rose and came back into the circle.
From the folds of the drapery, an arm was stretched
forward with something in
it;
what, we could not dis
tinguish. 'Nepenthes' looked about till she saw
Herr E., who was sitting behind another person, and
then floated across to him, holding out the something.
'She has given me
a
lump of wax,' he said, and then
immediately added, 'No,
it
is
the mould of her hand,
she
is
letting her hand melt out of it.' . . . even
while he was speaking, she glided, without
a
sound,
into the shelter of the cabinet, leaving him standing
with the mould in his hand.
"Next day
it
was taken to
a
worker in plaster of
Paris—Signor d'Almiri— who made
a
cast. He and
his workmen looked with astonishment at the mould
and remarked that some witchcraft had been at work,
as
it
could not have been formed upon and been with
drawn from
a
human hand."
in
MATERIALIZATION
A Pre-Natal Experiment
It must not be assumed that these moulds can only
be obtained from "dead" people, because such is not
the case. The celebrated "Margery" (the wife of a
Boston surgeon named Crandon), who has done sig
nal service to science, in her psychic experimentation
with her husband and his associated investigators, has
her greatest claim to immortality resting on her
famous "thumb-prints" made in a special type of den
tal wax called Kerr. These were made directly by
the supernormal agencies under the direction of her
control, "Walter," who is assumed to be the deceased
brother of "Margery." Among other astonishing
feats was the reproduction of a baby's foot before the
baby was bornl A fine piece of evidence, but, unfor
tunately, when the little visitor arrived it was found
that "Walter" had shown poor judgment in choosing
for his demonstration a babe born to parents who re
garded metapsychics in a most unfavourable light,
and who would under no circumstances allow psy
chic researchers to take the necessary foot-print of
the baby for purposes of comparison. Thus is the
progress of science blocked!
Sir Oliver Lodge's Thumb-print. "Margery," in
addition to finger-printing people after they have
passed on, and before they arrive, has also produced
in Boston the thumb-print of Sir Oliver Lodge, who
was at that moment in England— not New England!
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
It was stated in a malicious attack on "Margery," by
a very ill-informed journalist, that Sir Oliver had
never confirmed the fact; as this was the only point
in the article that called for ratification, the author
communicated with Sir Oliver Lodge and received
the following reply:
5th April, 1934
Dear Dr. Cross:
I do not know how or by what means my
thumb-prints have been obtained in Boston. I
certainly had nothing to do with it.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) OLIVER LODGE
The above two cases— and indeed many others-
are clearly an indication that supernormal powers
cover other spheres than the realm of the dead. Also
the accumulated evidence points very strongly to the
hypothesis that we are just as much a "spirit" now as
we ever shall be, and that certain parts of our beings
are responsive to metapsychic power, quite as facilely
as they will be in a future state of non-physical ex
istence. The reader will find other examples to sub
stantiate this on pp. 181 and 182.
It becomes more and more patent to those who
have studied all the phenomena of spiritualism from a
scientific point of view that we are bound to come to
the inevitable conclusion that every phenomenon by
the so-called discarnate agency ("spirit") must, in
some degree, be repeatable by the incarnate spirit.
124
MATERIALIZATION
D'Axsonval was undoubtedly near the truth when, in
1 88 1, he announced his belief that the differing physi
cal conditions of vital manifestations showed that
every living being must be considered as a simple
transformer of energy. This
is,
more particularly,
the case with the mental phenomena described later.
Recipe for Ectoplasm. The ghost-stuff may be
chemically imitated, according to Harry Price's for
mula, by compounding with the white of
a
new-laid
egg
a
little ferric chloride, phosphoric acid and gela
tin.
It
has been suggested that regurgitation of the
above from the stomach would be easy to individuals
who have the power of regurgitation, and doubtless
many would regurgitate such
a
mixture! The pre
cautions of administering an emetic and of feeding
the medium bilberries as noted on page 93 entirely
eliminate this type of fraud.
Additional evidence of the nature of ectoplasm
is
furnished by the fact that when the retraction of ec
toplasm
is
hastened by the application of light, the
solid material becomes very rapidly liquid, and finally
dissolves into
a
vaporous form, entirely disappearing
in
a
few seconds. In such experiments,
it
has been
found that several cubic centimetres of the residual
fluid has been recovered from the medium's garment.
This liquid, both microscopically and chemically,
gave absolute evidence of disorganized fragments of
living cells (cell-detritus) .
125
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
An Occult Explanation of Ectoplasm. According
to experts on the "other side," "they" no longer use
ectoplasm for the production of visible phantoms, but
a new gas, "censigol," a word derived from the Latin
for centre. This gas, it is claimed, is contained in a
sac situated in the centre of the solar-plexus system.
All have this sac in a minute degree, but in physical
mediums, the sac is enlarged and is able to discharge
its contents through the pores of the skin. This
agrees with laboratory findings (see page 95). Me
diums attract this censigol gas given out by other sit
ters. The censigol thus collected is mixed with the
exhalations of all, and with the resulting product the
visible spectre is produced.
AN ENGINEER'S VIEW
In this connection it is interesting to note the point
of view of the late Fritz-Grunewald, a Berlin engineer
of outstanding ability in occult investigation, whose
work Physical Mediumistic Investigation is described
by Schrenck-Notzing as one of the most important
works of the last decade. Grunewald says that the
medium's body must be filled with a "spiritual bodily
form," whose parts take on ferro-magnetic qualities
under certain conditions and may be objectively
traced. All this he imagines to be like a spider-web
spread over all directions of the room, whose threads
are represented by lines of magnetic force.
126
MATERIALIZATION
DANGEROUS EFFECTS OF INTERFER
ENCE WITH ECTOPLASM
There is some strong evidence for this all-pervading
character of the ectoplasmic emanation, and for the
presumption that it may obey the inverse square law,
as does the magnetism of physics, for at close quarters
the conductance of stimuli may be of great intensity.
A combination of the above views would explain, in
part at least, the FACT detailed by Charles Richet
(La Grande Esperance, p. 226) as follows: "I held
the right hand of Eusapia, and Flammarion her left.
Behind the curtain a bulge appeared and Eusapia said
it was the hand of John (King) . Then I said 'Pass
me a pin, I am going to find out if John has feelings,'
and I pricked the alleged member belonging to John,
through the curtain. But I was unable to continue;
because as I pricked, it seemed to me that a pin was
being stuck into the upper part of my own arm, and
it caused me severe pain, which fact produced parox
ysms of laughter in Eusapia." (Note the similarity
to the pain-rapport in hypnosis.)
The foregoing contrasts rather sharply with what
usually happens when ectoplasm (or its producing
medium) is assailed by prejudicial contacts. The
author has instances of collapse resulting from a sud
den exposure of the medium to room lights. In Los
Angeles, due to injudicious handling, an entranced
medium collapsed and was ill for several days.
Madame d'Esperance was seized with excruciating
127
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
cramps, and was rendered unconscious for some time
when a sitter seized "Yolande." Sequelae: hemor
rhages from lungs and lengthy illness. What hap
pened when a little piece of Eva C.'s ectoplasm was
cut has already been referred to on page 95. Never
theless there are occasions upon which a phantom
voluntarily offers a sitter a piece of garment fabric or
other tissue, and in such cases the medium suffers no
apparent inconvenience.
Some Unusual Materializations. In addition to well-
attested cases of human materializations, there have
been instances, such as that reported by Geley, in
which, with Kluski as medium, a primitive man was
produced, who emitted grunts and licked the hands
of the sitters!
At other times, birds, animals and inanimate ob
jects have been evolved in ectoplasm. Thus, in Win
nipeg at the Hamilton circle, after eleven sittings de
voted to its building, a sailing-ship was produced in
three-dimensional ectoplasm, and under the strictest
scientific conditions.
Probably the most astonishing case in this line is
that reported by Charles Richet (La Grande Espe-
rance, p. 235) in connection with a seance held at
Varsovia in a completely locked room, and in a dim
light. Guzik produced two faintly luminous phan-
tomatic individuals, whose faces alone were clearly
visible. They chatted together in Polish. One of
them said, "Why have you brought your dog?" At
128
MATERIALIZATION
this very moment the pitter-pat of a dog in the room
was plainly heard, and Richet distinctly felt the dog
come towards him, and gently nibble his calf, with
out causing any pain. "It was sufficiently perceptible
for me to be sure that it was a puppy. I was able to
note its pointed teeth," he states. "Then the dog
went towards Geley and bit him much harder, so that
he cried, 'Stop it! Stop it!' Such an attitude caused
me to remonstrate with him in no uncertain manner.
Geley should have shouted 'Encore! Encore!'
"
Richet further states that upon another occasion
with the medium Kluski a large eagle was materialized
and subsequently photographed.
Popular Exhibitions of Materialization. This chap
ter commenced with the report of what might be
termed a scientific circle, in which the control of the
medium and the precautions against fraud were ade
quate; the conclusion to the chapter consists of a de
scription of the usual type of materialization seance.
Although it is not usual to gain admission without
some difficulty to any circle in which materialization
is to take place— due in part to the element of risk in
volved from interference by the police (in some
countries) and by indiscriminating sitters who might
be overcome by mistaken zeal and grab the medium
or the phantoms—it is nevertheless possible, at times,
to have an opportunity. The author has been singu
larly favoured in quite a few countries, and as typical
of the average type of materialization seance, he will
129
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
draw upon his notes of a very recent one that he at
tended in San Francisco.
In a quiet street of that city was a very ordinary
frame house. The front fiat was tenanted by Hope
Darling, a rather pleasant middle-aged lady of much
experience in life. She is a firm believer in Spiritual
ism in all its phases, and not specially enthusiastic
about psychic research or its investigators; however,
on a promise of good behaviour and strong recom
mendations from the Church of Spiritualism, the
author was allowed in the back row of a seance. As
time went on, the writer— due to his exemplary con
duct—was promoted to a seat on the floor, right in
front, opposite the medium.
After the collection of fifty cents (two shillings)
from the twenty sitters, the trumpets were "mag
netized." This consisted in the excitation—by means
of a ioo-watt lamp—of fluorescence in the bands of
luminous paint (CaS) with which the sheet aluminum
was decorated in order to make the movement of the
trumpets visible in the dark. The trumpets were
then placed on the floor at the writer's feet. The
medium now retired to her arm-chair— no cabinet was
used— and a few words of greeting were addressed to
some of the habitues, and a word or two of welcome
and admonition extended to the newcomers. Then the
lights were extinguished, complete darkness reigned,
except for the faint glow of the luminous paint on the
trumpets and the dial of someone's wrist watch. The
130
MATERIALIZATION
latter was seen by the medium, and its immediate re
moval was requested. The Lord's Prayer was said, a
few hymns were sung, and then, like an arrow, the
trumpet nearest the author's right foot swept up into
the air with a rush.
"Good evening friends." It was the powerful and
modulated voice of "Mr. Harding"— a genial after-
dinner speaker and competent chairman—the me
dium's "guide." The trumpet now passed over the
head of each of the sitters in turn, giving a word of
greeting to friends, and asking to be introduced to
strangers. It even "saw" the writer on the floor and
dipped to tap him affectionately on his head. Then
the trumpet floated back towards the centre of the
room, and the same voice announced that there were
numbers of friends to "come through" and that the
control doubted whether all could be "brought," but
that they would do their best. For a solid hour, en
tity after entity was heard in conversation with one
or another of the sitters, interspersed only by the
clang of the trumpet as it occasionally fell to the floor
during a change of operator. The voices often were
widely different in timbre and audibility. The "old
hands" came through strongly and joyfully, the "first-
timers" were weak and weepy, "overcome by emo
tion," it was explained by the master of ceremonies,
a young Welshman— still in the flesh, bien entendu—
who placed the sitters en rapport, when necessary,
with an unrecognized communicator.
At length the distinct voice of the capable "Mr.
131
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
Harding," like a telephone operator announcing
"time's up," cut in and enquired if we should like a
little materialization, or would we prefer to go on
with the trumpet work. Of course, everyone yelled
for materialization, and "Mr. Harding" replied with
"Well, I don't know what we shall be able to do, but
we will try our best."
In order to warm up the materializing mechanism
it was necessary to sing ourselves hoarse with all the
hymns we could remember, and when these ran out,
to supplement the "vibration" with "John Brown's
Body," "It's a Long Way to Tipperary," etc.
At last all was ready and the first materializa
tion appeared through the inky gloom and called
"Mother." To the author, it was a mass of drapery,
luminous, and possessing form but no features. The
hands were partly visible, the veins were outlined in
blue-black, and the tissue was self-luminous. To a
devout sitter it was the spirit of her dead mother who
came forward; and the sitter got up and walked past
the writer and greeted her "mother." A conversation
of the most banal character was indulged in for a few
seconds, and the ghostly hand closed round a prof
fered rose, brought by the sitter, and the visitant from
the shades quickly faded, taking the rose with her (? ) .
This performance went on for nearly an hour, during
which about thirty-two "spirits" materialized. On
one occasion twin sisters—about four feet in stature-
materialized at the same time. All the voices of the
phantoms were clear and free from the distortion fre
132
MATERIALIZATION
quently observed with the trumpet method of voice
production. In short, they all spoke with "direct
voice." What they said was uniformly trite. "Spirit"
number thirty came for the author and was an
nounced as his mother (see p. 1 8 1 ) . There was not
a shred of evidence of identity, and the words that
were spoken were in American idiom, which was, on
the face of
it,
inconsistent with one who was
a
resi
dent of
a
provincial English town. Upon receiving
permission, the author rose to his feet and tendered
a
large red rose to the phantom. Owing to an error of
vision, the rose was not held forth at the right level,
and the ghostly hand reached forth and slapped the
back of the author's hand, making the characteristic
and unmistakable sound of flesh striking flesh. The
hand felt solid and warm— in every sense of the word,
a
human hand. Finally, the fingers closed round the
rose, grasping
it
securely; and then the spectre melted
quickly into the darkness, taking the rose with it.
Phantom number fourteen on the list was especially
interesting, as
it
purported to be that of
a
little child
about five years old. "Mamma, mamma,"
it
kept cry
ing, but the mother was not present and
it
had per
force to retire disappointed. As
it
receded towards
the medium,
it
seemed to lose its stamina, and rapidly
collapsed in
a
heap on the floor, but in doing so, some
of it— presumably its osseous system— struck the chair,
and the falling bones made
a
characteristic sound.
By itself, this observation
is
unimportant, as
it
was
not witnessed under the accepted scientific conditions,
133
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
but, strangely enough, it dovetails with one taken in
Algeria by Richet and under scientific test conditions.
It was at the residence of General Noel, commander
of the Algerian artillery; Richet and his colleagues
were seated—in dim light—with Marthe Beraud, better
known as Eva C, and they saw issue from the centre
of the floor a white vapour, which, little by little,
condensed and took the shape of a living man, but
diminutive in stature. "After having taken a few
paces around the seance room," asserts Richet, "the
apparition came near to us and when less than a yard
from myself, he toppled and fell on the floor, in
course of his dematerialization, with a 'clac, clac,' as
if bones were falling onto the floor."
At the conclusion of the materializations at the
Darling seance, the Indian "guides" had a "free for
all" with the trumpets, and the whoops and yells may,
in more senses than one, be described as "unearthly"
as the trumpets clashed in the darkness. Finally
"Rosebud," a little Red Indian maid (sic) picked up
the trumpet and produced the most beautiful floral
perfume and scattered it all around the circle, much
to the delight of the sitters. This scent was alleged
to have been extracted from the roses that "disap
peared" during the second part of the performance.
The parting word was uttered by the genial "Mr.
Harding," the one outstanding character of this as
semblage—astral or otherwise; and in a few minutes
the lights were turned on and the medium was restored
to complete normality with a glass of water. It ap
134
MATERIALIZATION
peared that she was entirely ignorant of any incident
that occurred during her trance state. Inspection of
the trumpet used by "Rosebud" as a distributor for
the perfume gave NO TRACE OF THE SCENT
AND NONE OF THE MISSING ROSES WERE
FOUND.
With regard to the phenomena apart from the ma
terialization, the author can certify that they were
most certainly supernormally produced. And from
all the circumstances, it is more than probable that the
same is true of the materializations. One has to draw a
conclusion from the repeated observations, the dif
fering styles and statures of the phantoms, and from
accidental evidence that is furnished from time to
time. More of this medium's work will be alluded
to in a later chapter.
The materializations of the above character are
certainly not so solid as those produced by the Polish
mediums; in fact, some have suggested that they
should be described as "etherializations." It is also
true that only on rare occasions does the form or
visage resemble any person very definitely. It is
claimed, too, that the "spirit forces" do not build a
separate ectoplasmic form for each communicating
"spirit." The entity, it would seem, steps into an ec
toplasmic structure to communicate, much as we step
into a telephone booth. Again, it is asserted that the
entities take up the ectoplasm, much as a microscopic
preparation takes up a stain— visibility of some other
wise invisible tissue being the end in both instances.
135
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
In still other cases, scientific observation has estab
lished that the materialization is equipped with at
least a skeletal foundation, as was noted above.
Others, according to the instances already given, have
heart and lungs, they breathe as we do, but their ex
istence in the visible condition is ephemeral.
Research establishes the fact that, whatever theory
we may adopt in regard to the ideoplasticity of ecto
plasm, physiologically it is an extension of the me
dium's body, and psychologically we are forced to
concede that this extension can be moulded to repre
sent living (and other) forms.
Admittedly very few of the phantoms are recog
nized by their physical appearance, and in those rare
cases where the resemblance to a once living person
is beyond question, the identifiers have usually agreed
that the person portrayed appears much younger than
when known in life. This is said to be due to the
fact that the ectoplasmic body conforms accurately
to the "soul" or "mind" of the person. The author
would make the further observation that the face in
death is usually many years younger in appearance
than it was, possibly only a few seconds before, in
life. So, admitting for the moment the hypothesis
that it is the surviving intelligence and memory of the
person that is back of the manifestation, the features
moulded will naturally be those last recalled. And
that the death event is the last recalled is universally
attested by the evidence of the seance room (cf.
p. 232).
136
MATERIALIZATION
The Medium and Best Results. It is improbable
that more than one person in two million can produce
a visible materialization, even partially. We cannot
enter into the morphology, or pathology— since the
health of mediums is always suspect. The author re
ferred this health question to the late Sir Arthur Co-
nan Doyle, M.D., and he replied that he knew a me
dium in America who was in his ninetieth year and
was still hale and hearty. But one swallow does not
make a summer (or a drink), and this old gentleman
is an outstanding exception. In general, the nervous
health of mediums is deplorably bad, even in those
cases in which no gross anatomical discrepancies are
apparent; it is decidedly not a recommendable pro
fession.
The accepted definition of a medium—due to Geley
—is as follows: One whose constituent elements-
mental, dynamic and material— are capable of being
momentarily decentralized. The innate tendency to
dissociation in these peculiar constitutions is increased
by the practice of mediumship, which tends to ren
der the primarily abnormal state more and more easy
and normal— a fact that should cause one to pause
before embarking on the career.
The mediums such as we have described in this
chapter are not only the unconscious producers of the
phantoms by an anatomo-biological decentralization
of their bodies, but also the psychological source of
matter for their manifestation to the eye of the
observer.
137 r
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
For a good output of phenomena, the following
conditions are essential: (i) health good; (2) temper
good; (3) medium must be comfortable; (4) confi
dence in experimenters. The sitters should be from
seven to ten; they should meet regularly and at the
same hour. The circle should not be entirely com
posed of elderly inidviduals, and the sexes should be
mixed. An open mind is preferable, although, as was
demonstrated in the Sydney sittings, skepticism is not
an insurmountable barrier. In the author's humble
opinion, healthy skepticism enhances the ingenuity
and quality of the phenomena.
Conclusions. The FACTS of ectoplasm are unde
niable, but there are several possible interpretations of
these facts. The spiritualistic explanation of discar-
nate intelligences covers all the facts with a seductive
simplicity, whereas the others seem to explain the ob
scure by the more obscure.
Certain religious bodies are agreed on this point:
the phenomena are the work of devils, or of the devil
seeking to mislead the souls of men so as to draw them
into a fiery hell.
This last hypothesis is hardly in keeping with the
advance of modern knowledge or modern concep
tions of the supreme organization of God's orderly
universe, which is beautifully expressed in the stanza
taken from Carruth's Each in His Own Tongue:
138
MATERIALIZATION
"Then a sense of law and beauty
And a face turned from the clod,
Some people call it evolution,
But others call it God."
The most frequently stated of the other explana
tions (all of which fail when confronted by the whole
of the accumulated experimental knowledge) are:
(i) tricks and humbug; (2) sitters are victims of
mania or delusion; (3) manifestations are due to cere
bral action, conscious or unconscious. This last does
beautifully cover some of the simpler phenomena.
It does not account for the complex ones. This solu
tion is gaining ground with our increase of knowledge
of the functions of the brain, and especially the sub
conscious mind and the so-called latent powers in
man. Let us hasten to point out that the wider ac
ceptance of this theory is a distinct advance along the
road of reality, since hitherto the general attitude held
by those who were sure that they were not the victims
of delusion has always been that the medium might
have tricked; it was not proved that he did NOT.
Therefore he did!
i39
Chapter IX
POLTERGEISTS AND HAUNTED HOUSES
BEFORE CONCLUDING this more physical sec
tion of the subject, it is necessary to say a word or
two about the famous rock-throwing, practical-
joking ghosts, called "Poltergeists"— a German im
portation into the terminology of psychical research.
It is also necessary to mention haunted houses, as
these, more often than not, appear to furnish the nat
ural habitat of the Poltergeist.
According to many mediums, including William
Eglinton, a famous one, the surest way to produce
these Poltergeists is to hold dark seances. It is
claimed that the phenomena that, in the light, might
be aptly described as "spiritual," under such circum
stances degenerate completely. In general from an
evidential point of view, there can be no doubt that
a sitting with a Poltergeist is usually a total loss—but
not always. After twenty years of consideration of
the evidence gathered in many countries, it was not
until the writer attended his first Poltergeist seance
in Sydney, Australia, that he became so convinced of
the extreme probability of survival in a personal, indi
vidual and identifying sense that he accepted it as part
of his philosophy of life.
140
POLTERGEISTS AND HAUNTED HOUSES
A Very Evidential "Touch." The author had
among his Sydney friends a woman physician, whose
active earth-life mainly consisted in riding in the Aus
tralian Bush to carry succor to the isolated sick folk.
She suffered many hardships in the course of her
forty-odd years of service— mostly gratuitous. She
was possessed of a magnificent physique, although of
distinctly masculine habits and appearance, even
down to smoking a pipe. Such would tend to in
clude her in the category of "hen-medics" rather
than that of lady doctor. It did one good to hear
her Irish humour and hearty laughter, and her love
of innocent fun won the heart of many a difficult
patient, were it man, woman or child. Her knowl
edge of general science was remarkable, and it was
this that brought her into the author's orbit. Stanley
de Brath's English translation of Richet's masterpiece
on metapsychics had then just been published, and a
lively discussion was indulged in during the doctor's
frequent visits to Sydney. She had no interest in
orthodox religion, and little use for any of the fifty-
seven varieties of -isms, but, in a general sort of way,
she conceded that there might be a state of existence
following this. Although strongly antipathetic to
wards Spiritualism as a whole, she admitted seeing,
upon one occasion, a phantom of a Red Indian chief
in a barn on the farm that was her childhood home.
That night her mother died.
Another all-important point in clarifying the situa
tion which is to follow is that, in season and out of
141
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
season, it was the physician's good pleasure to tousle
the author's rather long hair, and she did it by a pe
culiar, quick, darting motion of her hand, passing
rapidly from the forehead to the back of the head—
which effectively obliterated the careful parting,
much to the writer's annoyance. This operation al
lowed the peculiar formation of the teaser's hand to
be appreciated. A thick, soft hand, formed so by
years of mechano-therapy manipulations, for which
the doctor was specially noted. "The hands that
heal," her grateful patients called them. In any case
those hands could be recognized by their touch even
in the dark. Neither children nor adults made any
mistake when asked to identify the owner, in the
course of some childish game, when her hands were
used as a blindfold. This is a very significant point.
The doctor left for some distant part of Australia,
and although a letter or two passed, in course of a
year or so all contact ceased. It transpired that the
lady had fallen on evil times, and had contracted
pneumonia and died in a remote part of Western
Australia.
About three years after her death, the author was
present, as a guest, at the photographer's dark seance
referred to on page 83 in company with some twenty
other sitters, mostly men. Before commencing, the
medium announced that if any of the ladies objected
to being roughly handled, they had better retire from
the circle, as he wished no more complaints or fines
142
POLTERGEISTS AND HAUNTED HOUSES
for assault. No one retired, so the lights were turned
out and the gramophone started up with "It's a long
way . . . etc." For the convenience of "astral" vis
itors whose muscular power was weak, a large metal
trumpet was suspended from the ceiling, well above
the heads of the sitters. Through this instrument,
we were informed, several voices shouted at once
upon occasion. The sitters joined in the ribald songs
played by the gramophone, and the din was terrific.
Presently, although the room was practically hermeti
cally sealed, a strong, cool breeze was wafted round
the table and cooled each of the sitters in turn. Then
some lights began to hover over the lady sitters. They
glowed with a faint green-blue effulgence for possibly
a minute, then as suddenly as they appeared they van
ished. Next a horrible guttural voice came through
the trumpet, and the medium said it was his Indian
guide "Rain in the Face." In Red Indian English it
was stated that there was "plenty power here tonight.
Me do much tom-tom." This statement referred
to what was to happen to the sitters, as in a second
or so the first sitter nearest the medium was heavily
thumped in the back and his chair overturned, so
that he fell onto the floor with a heavy crash. Four
or five more sitters were similarly treated— much to
their delight—how pleased Richet would have been
with their scientific spirit! (cf. p. 129). Then the
power weakened as it came to a new sitter. At this,
the medium exhorted the "spirit" to treat him roughly
as he had no friends, and sure enough, bang went
143
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
sitter and chair onto the floor. This sitter was not
so scientifically satisfied. The next to receive atten
tion was a lady, but she got off lightly; her hair was
pulled down and the pins thrown onto the table. The
other ladies were similarly handled, and two had their
skirts pulled over their heads in addition. Sitter num
ber two from the writer had just been knocked onto
the floor, and the power was passing to the next. De
cidedly the author regretted his rashness in attending
such a group, and a cold sweat broke out on him, and
he wondered whether the "spirit" would know that
he suffered from a kyphosis arcuata, and that to be
violently thrown on the floor would be bad for him.
The next sitter's chair was so violently projected
against the floor that it was broken— the chair, not the
floor. By this time the author's state of terror was
indescribable, and his fear was quite other than that
which occupied at all times the mind of his illustrious
master, Charles Richet, "the fear of being duped."
For the author it was the fear of being dumped on the
floor that was "unique and constant." The sitter next
to him had picked himself up with an oath, and again
there was a pause in the manifestation. The writer
kept as quiet as a mouse, but the medium sensed the
condition, and most cordially recommended the
"spirit" to give the writer "the works," adding that
the author was alone in the world and that no one
loved him, etc. No sooner had the words been ut
tered than a hand materialized and passed through
the author's hair. It was THE hand. The hand of
144
POLTERGEISTS AND HAUNTED HOUSES
the dead doctor. Instantly all terror and sweating
ceased and the psychical state was completely
changed. A request for a second touch was granted,
thus making the evidence still more certain. A re
quest for a third was not granted, and from that day
to this no further evidence of this nature or from
this source has been vouchsafed. [ It is true some years
later in the course of a test sitting held in the library
of the San Francisco section of the Am. S. P. R. two
knots situated about one centimeter apart were tied
by a Poltergeist in two locks of the author's hair.
The knots were less than one centimeter from the
scalp. Nothing was felt of this activity until a sharp
pull was experienced that signalled the event.]
The Importance of Conditions. In the above re
cital the only thing that matters is that the identity
was afforded under the most remarkable conditions.
Nineteen sitters had been contacted by the same vio
lent influence; the medium, upon being assured that
the author was "touched" presumed that he had been
similarly treated, and when a second and third help
ing was asked for, the author automatically became a
sitter after the medium's own heart. The doctor was,
most decidedly, the last person in the world that the
writer had in mind. His mind was completely filled
with fear, so suggestion is completely ruled out here.
Also any telepathic skulduggery is so phantastically
impossible under the conditions detailed as to be also
ruled out as an explanation. Admitting that the
145
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
writer was in a suggestible state, then he would have
been influenced by mass suggestion— probably was,
up to the point of the intervention of the hand. That
scientific sop, the subconscious mind, leaves the
author unmoved as the conditions were not favour
able to unconscious cerebration of the reminiscent
type when the conscious mind is so occupied.
A much more recent occurrence of a somewhat
similar episode, although not at a Poltergeist circle,
is given in Geley's book Clairvoyance and Materiali
zation, and the translator, Stanley de Brath, had the
privilege of verifying the account from the narrator
direct. At a seance with Kluski, a Polish gentleman,
Jules Potocki, had his shoulder tapped by an alleged
cousin who had died about eight years before. The
sitter then enquired about his sister, who had passed
away three years earlier.
"Yes," said a voice, "she is here," and at the same
instant the sitter felt a woman's hand placed lightly
on his forehead, making the sign of a cross surrounded
by a circle, as she always did at leavetaking when
in life.
"I could recognize her hand by the light of the
screen on the table in front of me," said Potoki. "Her
hand passed several times before my eyes, and the
recognition grew on me. ... I had no longer any
doubts that the hand was hers; I KNEW ITS
TOUCH!"
146
POLTERGEISTS AND HAUNTED HOUSES
Other Poltergeists of Note. Not always do these
Poltergeists require the presence of a medium as
usually understood. Many cases are reported in
which these somewhat violent phenomena have taken
place without a certified medium or sensitive being
present. The original Fox Sisters affair (see p. 25)
is of this character. Then there is the beautiful ex
ample recorded by the eminent psychologist, F. W.
H. Myers, in which the Poltergeist fluttered around
a carpenter's shop in Hull. Pieces of wood moved
themselves, jumping on the floor and dancing around
the shop. These phenomena lasted six weeks, and
always occurred in FULL LIGHT of day. Some
times pieces of wood were projected across the shop
at slow speed, but always when someone tried to
catch them, they evaded the hands (cf. p. 61).
Numerous visitors witnessed the "goings on." When
the proprietor of the shop was thus frightened into
paying an outstanding debt, the manifestations ceased!
Here is a strange material phenomenon complicated
further by a moral aspect.
Of course, it is not forgotten that certain ancient
manors and castles are possessed of ghosts of a more
conventional character, though perhaps a little less
solid than the wood-throwing type above.
Bozzano recounts several examples in which the
reflection of the phantom was seen in a mirror, or
its shadow perceived upon the wall. Such tends to
establish its objectiveness.
Richet observes that "it appears that in some cases
147
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
a phantom is able to inhabit a house! I hesitate," he
continues, "to write this. It is so extraordinary that
my pen almost refuses to write it." It seems even
more extraordinary, if we are to accept the professor's
subsequent statement that these phantoms ". . . walk
through walls, enter and leave by a door which rests
closed, yet their image dose not reflect in a glass!!!"
(author's italics). See La Grande Esperance, p. 188.
Like Barrie's Peter Pan, these poor spectres have in
deed lost their shadow, but they have no accommo
dating Wendy to sew it on for them! This last ob
servation must be put into the same class as that on
p. 67 in which we have a magnetized knitting needle
with a South pole only.
In some cases, these phantoms when first seen have
all the aspects of a living person, then, after the lapse
of time, they become less and less solid, until at last
one cannot see them at all, but, nevertheless it is pos
sible to hear them. Such a case is reported by Myers,
who made the most thorough investigation. A medi
cal student, Miss Morton, found that a certain phan
tom appeared quite life-like and solid when she first
saw it during a period covering the years 1 882-1 886.
On several occasions many persons saw this ghost,
and electric wires stretched across its path were un
broken by its passage. From 1886 the form became
less and less substantial until after 1889, it was invis
ible, but its foot-falls could be heard!
One of the most recent of the rough-and-tumble
ghosts was that in connection with a Rumanian
148
POLTERGEISTS AND HAUNTED HOUSES
peasant girl named Eleonore Zugun. Her little play
mate was called "Dracu," the Rumanian for devil.
"Dracu" did the most awful things to Eleonore, bit
ing her hand, leaving great big teeth marks, and
scratching her face, so that livid weals disfigured her.
Mr. Harry Price has made a detailed investigation of
this Poltergeist, and his report is really astonishing.
These manifestations, witnessed on a person's skin, are
scientifically known as "stigmata" and are well-
known to religious history. Further examples of this
phenomenon will be found in the chapter that deals
with "psychic healing." The reader's attention is
now directed to the more mental forms of psychical
research, or at least to those experiments which have
a greater intellectual appeal than those dwelt upon
up till now.
149
PART TWO
PHENOMENA IN WHICH THE MENTAL
FACTOR IS IN GREATER EVIDENCE
Chapter X
"SPIRIT" PHOTOGRAPHY
THIS WORLD of ours has become a dazzling citadel
of mechanized might. It is certainly not any part of
a "catch as catch can" cosmos, but integral with an
orderly universe, which to a psychic person— i.e. one
who expresses a supernormal capacity for mental be
haviour of a suprasensible kind— affords differences of
perceptive levels, with consciousness, however, as the
common factor of all living beings. Life itself tends,
for such a one, to become more and more an interval
between cause and effect.
It is generally conceded that one part of our ego
is illuminated by consciousness, but another and
larger part lies in the deep shadow of unconsciousness.
Lodge expresses this fact well, when he says that
"the faculty of discernment does exist in some people,
and their positive evidence overweighs a wilderness
of negation from people whose perceptions are lim
ited to bodily senses."
«5*
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
Consider the iceberg floating in the Atlantic: by
far the larger part is hidden under the water; its
centre of gravity shifts, and it overturns, presenting
a mountain of ice to the enthralled beholder. Again,
the sunbeam presents a comparatively limited visible
radiation as compared with its invisible but none the
less potent rays. So the study of psychology teaches
us that each human personality embraces a potent
hidden self, as well as the familiar conscious self; and
just as science shows us how to get the infra-red and
the ultra-violet radiation from the sunlight, so the
metapsychic branch of psychology enables us to vis
ualize the complex nature of the human personality,
and to lead forth that part of the ego which normally
resides below the threshold of consciousness, but
when made manifest can respond to incarnate as well
as to discarnate surges. In this work the author will
touch upon the more evidential lines of research into
the nebulous region outlined above, giving a very few
examples of each, and reserving for a subsequent
volume a more detailed resume of the intricacies of
mental mediumship.
Direct Photography. The subject of "spirit"
photography affords a most suitable bridge between
the materializations of the last chapters and the more
subtle phenomena of this section of the book, because
at times the medium has the power to render visible
to a normal sitter the subject or subjects of the pro
posed photograph. In other words, he must, at times,
152
SPIRIT" PHOTOGRAPHY
produce a sufficient density in the ideoplastic sub
stance (ectoplasm) to enable it to be slightly visible
to normal sight.
One of the most outstanding examples of this was
recorded by Richet. It deals with ghosts on a mass-
production basis, and tells of an experience of Geley
at Varsovia. He was seated in company with Kluski
and an officer friend of the latter who had just ex
claimed to Kluski that he would not believe in phan
toms until he had seen a hundred of them. "Sud
denly," observes Geley, "a great wind opened the
window and blew out one of the lamps. Then, there
passed in front of the sofa upon which we were all
seated an interminable defile of widely different
ghostly forms, women, children, old people, soldiers,
priests, etc." The three spectators were 'scared stiff'
—and small wonder.
The success of "spirit" photography in no way
depends upon visibility of the subject, indeed super
normal photography differs from normal photog
raphy in that the objects recorded are not apparent
to the normal eye. To an extent this is applicable to
normal photography, e.g. in dermatology it is possible
to photograph an eruption on a patient's skin some
time before the lesion is visible to the naked eye.
The "spirit" forms photographed are technically
known as "extras." In taking psychic photographs,
the author has often been told by his associates who
were possessed of clairvoyant sight, that such and
such a person was "building up" to be photographed,
153
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
but when all was set for the actual taking of the pic
ture—which incidentally differs in no way from
photography of the ordinary kind— another and un
expected entity was revealed on the plate at develop
ment. The discrepancy was explained by the fact
that another entity in his eagerness to be photo
graphed, pushed the former one out of range. (See
pages 159 and 227.)
Although no special plates or films are necessary,
what is indispensable is the presence of a photographic
medium. These individuals are relatively rare. Two
celebrated ones are the late William Hope and Robert
Boursnell, both of whom have been maligned to the
nth degree despite many experiments' made under
irreproachable conditions of control. People are
"down" on "spirit" photography because it is the
most easily faked branch of the spiritualistic industry.
Due to this fact, it follows that, unless the conditions
of experiment are fully stated, any apparent evidence
for survival that is presented by the photograph itself
is set at naught. Conversely, it may be said that a
properly controlled psychic photograph may afford
the best possible evidence for the case of personal
survival.
The use of quartz and other special lenses has
helped considerably in the clarification of the results,
as by such means it is possible to photograph on an
ordinary emulsion much that would not be trans
mitted by the ordinary glass lens. The same applies
154
"SPIRIT" PHOTOGRAPHY
with equal force to the photographing of materialized
forms.
Let it be emphasized that it is a mistake to assume,
as most impressed people do, that the genuineness of
"spirit" photography is in direct ratio to the presence
of recognized extras, as practically every genuine
example of spirit photographs could have been pro
duced by trickery, given the time and opportunity
for the manipulation of the plates. One must be most
concerned about the conditions under which these
extras are obtained. In conducting a scientific test, the
medium should not be permitted to handle the camera
or the plates until after the latter are fixed; otherwise
the result has not a scrap of scientific value, and
should not be accepted as evidence. Many "spirit"
photographs by Hope and others have been taken
under these desirable conditions and provide incon
testable proof of the objectivity of the phenomena.
Mr. Harry Price claims that he paid twenty pounds
and proved that Hope was a fraud by setting ingen
ious traps for him, including X-raying with the com
pany's trade mark the plates to be used, and surrepti
tiously marking with a metal needle-studded thumb-
stall the dark slides to be employed.
Offsetting this is the reputable testimony of the
former Secretary of the Society for the Study of
Supernormal Pictures, Mr. Fred Barlow, who with
fourteen others, signed the following statement: "Mr.
Hope did not touch the plate until fixation was com
plete."
155
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
Again, using plates specially marked and sealed for
tests by the Imperial Dry Plate Company, three ex
perimenters, including Mr. de Brath, at the British
College of Psychic Science certify that it was per
fectly certain that at no time whatever, either before
or during development, was it possible for the medium
to have access to the plates in any way whatsoever,
and yet extras were obtained and were recognized.
Attention is now drawn to plate V in which there
are shown some very fine specimens of spirit photog
raphy, furnished the author by courtesy of Mr.
Stanley de Brath. Figure i gives an interesting case
of quick change work, as the exposures were made
in rapid succession. Mr. Boursnell was the medium
and experiments were made by an experienced chem
ist and by Mr. S. W. Woolley, a photographer well
up in trick photography.
The converse condition is depicted in figure 2 in
which a remarkable unchanged condition, even down
to a scratch was maintained over nearly two years!
For the benefit of the unaccustomed student, it might
be an advantage to stress the fact that the two upper
photographs in plate V, differ from the pictures re
produced in plate IV, in that the former are strictly
supernormal photographs—nothing visible being pres
ent—whilst the supernormality in plate IV lies in the
materializations and not in the photography.
Skotography. We now turn to a type of photo
graphic procedure that is a complete and baffling
mystery. The photograph shown in plate V, figure 3,
156
Fig. I Fig. Ill
The two plates were in the same double slide and
taken in rapid succession. (Indicated by the fact
that the sitter has not moved.)
N. B. Compare the left-hand picture with that
on the right. It will be remarked that the head
draping is slightly different and that a pectoral
cross has been added. (See arrow.)
"SPIRIT" PHOTOGRAPHY
was taken without the use of a camera and has thus
been christened a "skotograph" (from the Greek
skotos = darkness) .
To obtain a skotograph one takes a single plate
wrapped up in a light-proof envelope, or an unopened
packet of plates—if expense is no object—and allows
the medium to hold the protected plate (or packet)
between his hands; all this is done in the full light.
"Nearer my God to Thee" is sung or the Lord's
Prayer said, etc., according to the desires of the
psychic. After a short time the plates held by the
medium are developed in the ordinary way, and in a
successful seance an image is revealed that may re
semble the kind reproduced in figure 3 of plate V,
obtained through the mediumship of Mr. David
Duguid. A recognizable portrait of the late Major
Spenser was obtained by a medium who held a plate
enveloped in a light-proof envelope as described
above. The marvelous thing about this skotograph
was that it was identical to a "spirit" photograph
taken with a camera a short time before.
The author, in Johannesburg, made numerous ex
periments with Cyril White, a non-professional
medium possessing photographic powers, and after a
few trials the camera method was abandoned for the
skotographic technic. The results had little personal
value, being confined to Red Indian guides of the
medium.
One of the most evidential skotographs is that re
produced in figure 4 of plate V. This infant's pic
*57
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
ture was unexpected, and Mr. Glendining in his book,
The Veil Lifted, says in reference to this baby, "I was
vexed at not getting the special result I wanted, but
I soon had cause for gladness in the joy which the
portrait obtained brought to the hearts of the father
and mother. The child's dress exhibits what was not
known to anyone outside of the infant's family. Pre
vious to the parents' departure he was lying cold in
bed when his mother took a nightdress off one of her
older boys, which had a kind of frill round the neck
band. There was no picture in existence from which
the photograph could have been copied; and the like
ness is attested not only by the parents, but by friends
of the family."
The skotograph method should be encouraged by
experimenters, as it is so easy to control and absolutely
above suspicion when used under test conditions, for
at one stroke it eliminates all possibilities of fake
cameras, double exposures, doctoring plates, etc. It
is true that more perfect pictures are obtained with a
camera, but it is equally true that the subjects do not
pose before the lens. The "material" sitter
is,
of
course focused in the usual way, and from
a
mass of
experimental evidence, this seems the only use for the
lens. The lens plays no part in producing the extras.
Some Ingenious Explanations. From various
sources the author has gathered the following widely
held explanations of the wonders of psychic photog
raphy. First in regard to the uncertain results,
it
is
alleged that the wrong extras are due to: (i) attrac
ts
"SPIRIT" PHOTOGRAPHY
tions to the medium of his own friends and relatives
more strongly than the desired communicator; (2) a
strong emotional impression left behind by a previous
sitter; (3) "spirits" who have pressed in without invi
tation on account of the fact that "they" can use that
particular medium.
The Theory of Production. Linking this to the
language of ordinary photography we might classify
the possible methods as below:
(1) The Objective Method. By this is meant that
some normally invisible person is present before the
camera, and the photograph is produced by ultra
violet radiation reflected from his body. The half
tone faces would be thus accounted for, but not
the drapery or the lighting, which should be identical
for both the normal sitter and the extra. Skoto-
graphs are not to be explained along these lines.
(2) The Thought-form Theory. Some imagine
that the image is a thought-form that is projected from
the subconscious mind of the medium or sitters or
both. Psychologists will doubtless be unduly im
pressed with this theory, as it is well-known that cer
tain images (a cross, bottle, etc., but NOT faces)
have been produced on plates by intense concentra
tion for half-an-hour or so. The time of exposure
and the rapid changes that the extras make (see figure
1, plate V) discount this as an explanation of "spirit"
photography.
(3) The Transparency Theory. According to this
theory, the image is produced on an invisible film
159
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
placed between the plate and the lens. Strange
though it may seem, there is some evidence to support
this theory. For example, mirror images have been
produced in which the exact replicas are given re
versed. Also the large amount of drawing and writing
indulged in by the discarnate entities would be thus
nicely accounted for.
(4) The Skotographic Method. How skotographs
are produced no one on "this side" has the remotest
idea. It has been rather vaguely hinted that this
phenomenon is linked up with the fourth dimension,
but this as an explanation is unsatisfying. It is evident
that the emulsion is acted on by another (and un
known) agent, as no light is admitted to the plate.
Stanley de Brath in his book Psychical Research,
Science and Religion, describes a skotograph of a
white rose which appeared in the middle of a packet
of plates, sealed by five witnesses, opened and de
veloped in the rooms of the Royal Photographic
Society in the presence of the same witnesses. What
has McCabe and his confreres to say to this?
In closing this chapter, let it be emphatically stated
that all experimenters should be skeptical, but not to
the point that all enquiry is sterilized, as when it is
assumed that competent professional photographers
who have conducted the most rigid tests, are unable
to include among their number, at least one person
sufficiently alert to detect whether a medium touched
or changed the plates or manipulated the background.
160
"SPIRIT" PHOTOGRAPHY
The task before scientists is to devise experiments
in conjunction with the discarnate element, that will
reveal the form-producing power, the ideoplastic
substance, and discover the actinic mechanism by
which are determined these phenomena, which are
doubtless the most remarkable in the whole range of
metapsychics.
Chapter XI
"PSYCHOGRAPHY"
CLOSELY ALLIED to the subject of the last chapter
is the rather rare phenomenon popularly known as
"slate-writing." This was a feature of Eglinton's
mediumship, and developed after three years of daily
sitting for it. Another famous slate-writer is Fred
Evans, who is still living. Evans' gift developed after
only three months of sitting—an exceptionally short
period.
A Dutch acquaintance of the author's—a lady—was
prepared to abandon the development in disgust, be
cause she obtained only "a few thin scratches and
numbers" after sitting three months for half an hour
daily, but on being assured that the world-famous
slate-writers had usually meditated for as many years
before a single scratch came, she decided to carry on.
The fascinating thing about psychography done
with a slate pencil is that there is no known method
in which invisible writing with slate pencil can be
revealed by chemical reagents; so it is practically
fraud-proof under even mild test conditions. The
writer some years ago developed a process for coun
terfeit slate writing, using all standard apparatus ex
162
"PSYCHOGRAPHY"
cept the pencil crumb, this was admixed with iron
filings. The writing was done by means of a small,
but powerful electro-magnet. The writing looked
"spiritual" enough, but it would take a Jasper Mas-
kelyne to produce a convincing message under the
conditions imposed. The medium can bring his own
special "magnetized" slates, provided he will consent
to allow the committee to wash them, to ascertain
that the "spirit" writing is not already on them. The
crumb of slate pencil is generally donated to the "dis-
carnates," but not always is this the case; and the
coloured productions are done with their own
"astral" art-materials.
The following is a detailed account of one of Mr.
Fred Evans' more recent sittings, given under the
strict control of the San Francisco Section of the
American S. P. R. First, the laboratory was fully
lighted; the slates, two in number, were supplied by
the sitters— not the medium. They were washed and
fastened together by the sitters. They were sealed,
and at no time did the medium come near them. One
of the sitters was instructed to put her foot on the
slate, which was placed on the floor for the purpose.
The medium sat off in a corner near a window, and
was chatting with another sitter about indifferent
subjects, apparently taking no interest in the proceed
ings. All of a sudden, the medium gave a convulsive
twitch and at that instant the slight tapping, scratch
ing noise of a slate pencil was heard— not to say felt
by the lady whose foot was resting on the slates.
163
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
When the writing had apparently ceased, the slates
were removed and separated and the result shown in
plate VI was obtained. The writing was in several
colours. The society then engaged the services of
a firm of San Francisco consulting chemists to report
on the nature of the writing and the following is an
excerpt from the most important sections of that
report:
"(i) Visual Examination of the Inscription.
Their appearance to the unaided eye would lead
one to believe that the inscriptions had been applied
in a readily visible form . . . the smooth-flowing hand
writing differing from the heavy laborious type
usually the case when the writing is done with ma
terials of low visibility. The same considerations
would throw out the likelihood that the writing had
been performed while in a strained or uncomfortable
position. Similarly, the characters written in chalks
of various colors show no evidence of irregularities
characteristic of writing or printing with invisible
materials.
"(2) Microscopic Examination of the Characters.
Under a magnification of approximately 1 20 diame
ters the markings in all cases are seen to consist of
solid materials filling the microscopic depressions of
the slate surface, while the high surface between the
pockets are swept relatively free of chalk. Grooves
are likewise visible where inequalities in the crayon
were produced by pressure against the slate. That
164
"PSYCHOGRAPHY"
the inscriptions were produced by the use of solid
crayon is evidenced by the appearance of the mark
ings under the microscope; for example, the charac
ters are of approximately the same intensity from
edge to edge (of any given line) while application
of the marking substance in solution form would be
likely to result in a concentration of the material at
the fringes of the line and at other points where dry
ing took place last. In the case of the colored char
acters the coloring material may in some cases be seen
to be spread irregularly through a white base sub
stance. The pressure marks and the concentration
of material in the depressions indicate clearly that the
writing was not produced by a transfer process.
"(3) Chemical Examination of the Substance Com
posing the Inscriptions.
From the behavior of small portions of the various
colored chalks, with solvents and under ignition, they
contain as binders such materials as are commonly
used in the manufacture of colored crayons.
With a view to gaining information as to the possi
bility of a developing-out procedure for bringing out
the various colors from a previously visually blank
slate we examined small portions of the material taken
from a number of the characters to ascertain the na
ture of the coloring agent. The results are as follows:
Yellow writing color due to the mineral
pigment Lead Chromate
(Chrome Yellow) .
165
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
Red writing
Burnt Orange writing .
White writing
Purple writing
Uncolored writing . .
color caused by organic
dyestuff on an acid in
soluble white base simi
lar to China clay.
due to ochre (iron
oxide).
apparently due to ma
terial such as China clay.
appears due to the re
sultant of two coloring
agents, of which the
more abundant is an or
ganic dyestuff of prob
able coal tar origin.
due to a soft granular
whitish substance
largely insoluble in di
lute acid, and apparently
consisting of a soft sili
cate material such as
slate (or possibly of a
bonded powder).
The conclusion that the characters were placed on
the slate in precisely the existing form appears inevi
table from the data presented above and for the fol
lowing reasons:
"(i) It is inconceivable that the lead chromate or
any lead or chromium compound could be applied in
a from which would be invisible against the grey of a
166
'PSYCHOGRAPHY'
slate and later be developed out by any simple de-
veloping-out process. Assume, for example, that the
lead had been applied as a soluble lead compound and
the lead chromate was at the time of the demonstra
tion formed on the slate by the application of a solu
tion of a chromate; most soluble lead compounds are
white and would in themselves be visible on the pre-
treated slate; in addition the application of a chromate
solution would at best yield blurred and imperfect
characters.
"(2) We cannot conceive of any means by which
the organic dye-stuff could have later been applied
to the previously written but invisible words."
The chemists deal in detail after the above fashion
with the other pigments found by analysis to have
been used by the "intelligence" who wrote the various
messages, and specially stress the fact that the white
and grey characters are made from insoluble sub
stances and were therefore quite obviously applied in
the existing colour and form.
In their summary they state that:
"The possibility of producing all the above chemi
cal changes simultaneously is naturally even more
remote.
"We believe that the above findings will definitely
answer negatively the question as to the possibility of
a chemical explanation of the production of the writ
ing on this slate. As stated above, the nature of the
substances making up the characters precludes the
possibility of either successive or simultaneous pro-
167
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
duction of the characters, particularly with the con
dition mentioned that no substance was applied to
the slate during the period of experiment.
Yours very truly,
Curtis & Tompkins, Ltd.
By: F. H. Eldred."
This seems to settle once and for all the super
normal character of psychography, and the writer
congratulates Mrs. William Cannon, the Secretary,
and Mr. Stewart Edward White, the Research Offi
cer, on their scientific spirit, and thanks them for
their courtesy in allowing him to publish this splendid
piece of work.
Here again we are face to face with a profound
mystery. The facts disclose definitely that whenever
we have the production of a physical product by
metapsychical means, the former
is,
in its constitu
tional elements, akin to that of our earth plane— only
the assemblage of this normal matter
is
transcendental.
As has been stated, the general method with Evans
and other slate-writing mediums,
is
to have
a
small
piece of slate-pencil inserted between the two slates
that have been screwed or bound together. That the
messages are the result of real writing
is
brought out
by the noise of the pencil at work which may be
heard by applying one's ear to the slates. Then
again, the crumb of pencil shows
a
worn aspect
which was clearly due to attrition.
It
is
important to
1
68
Plate VI
"PSYCHOGRAPHY"
note that a cross drawn by the experimenters on the
slate from corner to corner as in plate VI, afforded
additional proof, as the supernormal writing was done
over this cross-line. The messages are at times highly
evidential both in regard to the text and the signa
ture, and occasionally the matters discussed are really
convincing, though as a rule they partake of the char
acter of the usual seance room platitudes.
A "Spirit" Explanation of Xenoglossy (use of lan
guages unknown to the medium) . Evans on one test
occasion produced on the same slate no less than
twelve oriental and occidental languages. Among the
communications was one from Socrates (sic), but the
Greek written by the alleged Socrates was not of the
period. However, the "guide" of Evans, "John
Gray," explains that "the Greek of the ancients is
necessarily passed down through the brains of modern
spirits of that nationality, until it is finally impressed
upon the brain of the psychic's 'guide,' who gives it
to the best of his ability. So it is with all languages
with which he is not familiar." Additional light on
this will be found on page 171.
How the Writing is Done. According to "astral
intelligence" it is said that slate-writing, in common
with all branches of psychography, is performed in
several different ways, and the same "spirits" do not
always employ the same procedure. In general, ordi
nary "spirits," such as are likely to be friendly with
the author, write by proxy, just as we mortals do not
169
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
personally send our own telegrams— we have to avail
ourselves of the services of someone who can do the
Morse code! So also in remote places where the
teletype has not supplanted the lady clerk whose
hand-writing appears on the form we receive telling
us of the love that Mabel bears us, we do not proclaim
the message a forgery because the orthography is not
Mabel's. The text is Mabel's— errors of transmission
excepted.
A parallel situation, we are told, exists in the
"spirit" world. Our communicators must be given
time to learn how, and if we must get a message in
the meantime it must be by proxy as is normal with
earthly wires and cables. The fact that names are
spelled wrong and other textual errors abound is put
down to the obliging amanuensis who knows how to
psychograph from phonetic sources. This fact is the
alleged explanation for the stereotyped character of
many of the communications, which would not occur
when individually sent. But this source of error is
only of temporary duration, as all "spirits" can learn
to write by this mysterious means, and when they
have done so, investigators receive a facsimile of the
hand-writing that the communicator used on earth.
In addition, there will be evident a satisfying index
of personality that will authenticate still further the
script. It is claimed that the writing is not done by
personal contact of the medium or his friends "in
spirit." Everything done in the realm of "spirit" is
done by natural law, and it would be an unnatural
170
"PSYCHOGRAPHY"
law that would permit a materialized hand to go be
tween the surfaces of slates less than one-eighth of
an inch apart and to grasp a pencil with which to
write (besides, we have the chemists' report about the
uncramped attitude of the writer!). The principal
methods that are used for the transmission of mes
sages employ laws that are becoming more and more
understood on earth, viz. electro-magnetic ones. The
scheme is similar to the transmission of radio tele
graphic messages, it is further stated, in that a counter
part of the slate on the earth plane is available in the
"spirit" sphere. This is written on by the communi
cator—if he can write— or by the medium's "guide"
if the former has not the facility. Then, by a form
of energy such as we know in television experiments,
the message is transferred to the medium's psycho-
neural system and thence by telekinesis (see p. 56)
to the mundane slate. Thus every defect in the
"astral" slate is faithfully reproduced on its earthly
counterpart, impulse by impulse, just like oscillations
in any other radio-telephoto circuit, the only ma
terial-like part of the circuit being the ectoplasm that
is used to bridge the gap from the medium to the
physical slate. But this is not the only method used,
because the slates, fourteen in number, that carried
the information from which this brief extract is
drawn, contained some 1200 words and the entire
message was only fifteen minutes in coming through,
hence it could not have been transmitted by any word
by word writing process. In this case the unseen
171
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
"operators" state that sufficient text or illustrative
matter to fill the mortal slate is first prepared and then
transferred instantaneously to the earthly slate. To
effect this transfer, the surface of the earthly slate has
to be thoroughly "sensitized," also the slate-pencil
has to be disintegrated into a fine powder and pre
cipitated evenly over the surface of the slate. The
process is somewhat similar to photography, they say.
It would be thought even more similar to the sialog
raphy dealt with in the last chapter.
The coloured writing is done in somewhat similar
manner, except that the colours are apported and dis
tributed in an impalable powder, in the manner men
tioned on page 74. This method is more difficult,
we are informed, than the former one, and needs the
best conditions of atmosphere and medium.
It is striking that the only definite knowledge
which supports this "astral" information, was ob
tained through a failure of these alleged necessary and
desirable conditions.
Other Types of "Direct Writing" (or "independent
writing"). Before passing on to the consideration of
what may be justly termed the piece de resistance of
psychic evidence for the survival of intelligence, the
author would like to give an example of pencil writ
ing that was done in Sydney with the Norman circle.
Quite often the sitters would place an ordinary
stenographer's notebook with a pencil, in a large
water bottle, and seal them in firmly. The experi
ment was suggested (by direct writing) by one of
172
"PSYCHOGRAPHY"
Norman's "controls," and consisted of an extensive
"spirit" writing feat extending to several thousands of
words in English written by a modern Greek— since
some of the characters were reminiscent of the type
of English written by one of that nationality.
The bottle and its sealed contents would be placed
on the laboratory table at one of the regular seances,
and duly indicated to the "powers that be." Some
times it would be specifically referred to, sometimes
it would be ignored, but in any case the bottle was
always placed on the mantelpiece until the next meet
ing, a week later, when the seals were examined and
then the book and pencil carefully withdrawn. On
opening the note-book, it was found invariably to be
more than half-filled with neat pencil-handwriting.
Some sixty books-full were obtained at various times
—all in the same style of composition and of hand
writing, so easy to identify.
The writing itself was intensely interesting, be
cause it was immediately apparent to the hand-writing
experts attached to the Australian Courts, that the
letters were formed on the surface of the paper and
not in any case indented as would normally be the
case in writing with a pencil. This rather bears out
the "astral" explanation about the transfer process, as
unless the writer had taken the precaution to place a
metal sheet under each leaf as he wrote, it would be
difficult to conceive of any way of avoiding the
normal indentations of the pencil point. Regarding
the text itself, the experts asserted positively, that it
173 r
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
was all the work of one hand— a Greek hand! The
quality of the literature was mediocre, but with
flashes of exciting identifiable matter, such as detailed
directions for a treasure hunt that we were to indulge
in on one of the Sydney beaches. The "treasure"
was found precisely as stated in the MS. True, it
was only a few pennies or an object, possibly buried
by a picnicker, rather than a buccaneer, but in all
cases, and there were several, the script proved reli
able.
The text that urged us to seek for missing persons
in no case was correct, although unusual names and
addresses and even telephone numbers (!) were given.
Messages from "dead" people were equally unsatis
factory, and never, in one single instance, was there
a shred of definite evidence of identity. The descrip
tions were NOT vague, they were often most de
tailed, and for this reason we sought most exhaus
tively to estalish rapport with the living relatives as
requested.
Our own personal messages were very poor indeed,
and it is safe to say that not one was even remotely
recognizable. Evidently the "spirit" must have been
"earthbound" as he knew much about the sand on the
beaches, but little else apparently—perhaps he was a
beachcomber or a former Greek fisherman!
Automatic Writing. This, the commonest phase
of mediumship, is often confounded with the above.
In automatic writing it is the hand of the medium
that guides the writing instrument. His muscles func
174
"PSYCHOGRAPHY"
tion in the normal manner—except that frequently
they move faster— but his brain is acting independ
ently of his conscious volition. Some of the results
produced by the agency of automatic writing have
been outstandingly evidential. Perhaps the most as
tonishing example of what can be done by automatic
writing is that recorded of a semi-educated Vermont
farmer, whose hand wrote, on November 15 th, 1872,
the conclusion of Dickens' Mystery of Edwin
Drood. The style and subject matter are so charac
teristic of the great novelist, that experts have ac
claimed it as genuine. There is much else about this
particular script that is highly evidential in establish
ing the identity of its illustrous author.
175
Chapter XII
"THE TRUMPET SHALL SOUND"
READERS WHO do not believe in survival are
earnestly requested to read this chapter, as it contains
the best evidence of survival of intelligence that has
so far appeared.
Those who do believe in survival are urged to read
the account that follows: it will probably render them
much more cautious in accepting trumpet evidence
at face value, and cause them to carry out the Apos
tles injunction to "Try the Spirits" or, as in I Corin
thians, 14, they will find that the trumpet gives forth
"an uncertain sound"
Trumpet Work and Its Technique
In a former chapter reference was made to trumpet
mediumship stressing rather the physical side; in the
present account the mental aspect of trumpet activ
ities is emphasized.
Spiritualistic trumpets, unlike those employed in
orchestras, are never made of brass, but of cardboard,
or preferably aluminum. They are sold in one piece
or in two or three collapsible sections, that slide neatly
one into the other, and can be packed in quite a
176
"THE TRUMPET SHALL SOUND"
small box for carrying. Usually they are furnished
with a luminous-paint star or other device, so that
their movement may be followed in the dark. As a
rule, trumpet sittings are more powerful in complete
darkness, but many mediums can produce the phe
nomenon in subdued daylight or fairly strong red
light, and one or two in strong bright light, although
in this case the "voice" is weak.
If the reader will refer to page 129 and put himself,
so to speak, in the very atmosphere of that seance, the
writer will, at the present juncture, need only to
stress the evidential matters, so necessary to the form
ing of an opinion as to the genuineness, the basic gen
uineness, of trumpet work.
During one of the Darling sittings, a very experi
enced medical investigator sat at the author's right
hand, and in the row behind were also "planted" two
astute and reliable observers. The trumpet, on this
occasion, was well warmed up to its work, and came
towards the doctor, with a message from an alleged
patient of his who had passed on, through pneu
monia. The evidence was fairly convincing, the
doctor thought, and in his attempts to clarify the
situation, brought down the wrath of the devout
young Welshman, toujours en chair et os, who acted
as a sort of general utility man; and a lively discussion
took place as to the limitations of spirit power. The
superior savoir faire of the doctor won the argu
ment, and the trumpet, the while poised in the void,
undertook to float over the author's shoulder to speak
177
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
to one of the sitters "planted" in the back row. As it
passed before the author, he quickly placed his hands
fore and aft of
it,
and the voice began to speak to
the sitter at the back. Rising upward, the trumpet
went over the author's left shoulder, and in passing
took the opportunity to salute the writer with
a
blow
on the side of his ear, which was audible to everyone.
This in appreciation of his scientific interest, no
doubt! [Geley reports
a
similar incident in his book
Clairvoyance and Materialization. Kluski's father
treated
a
message with derision and received
a
heavy
box on the ear, traces of which remained for days. A
decidedly convincing proof of personality!] Apart
from the fact that the instrument was very slightly
illuminated by the paint, the observation that the
trumpet actually spoke when between the author's
hands, held directly over his lap,
is
proof that no
human being was using the trumpet as
a
megaphone.
Here let
it
be insisted that
it
is
no easy task to peram
bulate among twenty people in the dark without run
ning into some of them, and to touch the sitters in
the graceful way that the trumpet does, when
it
ex
presses greetings or affection,
is
extremely difficult
even in the light. A trial will convince anyone who
doubts this assertion.
An index that the voice
is
of
a
physical (or rather,
physiological) nature
is
revealed by the fact that at
the termination of the seance the inside of the trum
pet
is
visibly coated with moisture. Again, another
interesting point that seems to establish
a
direct laryn
178
"THE TRUMPET SHALL SOUND"
geal connection between the medium and the voice
of the trumpet is the fact that during many of the
messages there is a noticeable disturbance of the me
dium's larynx, and at times his vocal chords vibrate
in unison with the vibrations of the "spirit" voice.
This is specially noticeable with certain frequencies.
The matter can be checked with the submarine tele
phone apparatus, in which the transmitter is placed,
not over the mouth, but over the hyoid cartilage.
The results of this test are surprising, as with many
mediums the author has found a whole range of lower
frequencies entirely missing from the medium's vocal
chords, only an occasional burst from some of the
higher frequencies would come over the telephone.
In other cases, the position is entirely reversed, and
in still others, the most intermittent results are ob
tained through the telephone. With Norman, during
some Sydney experiments, the author found that
when the "spirits" were using what is known as in
dependent voice—i.e., speaking apart from the trum
pet—only very rarely indeed was he able to establish
any connection between the "voice" and the vocal
chords of Norman. So it would seem probable that
for trumpet work the medium's larynx is in some
cases utilized to an extent (or at least the vocal chords
are in resonance with the supernormal voice) , but in
other cases, not so.
Naturally the skeptical person at once flies to ven
triloquism as the explanation of the mystery. Experi
ments that have been tried with accomplished ven
179
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
triloquists have failed to convince anyone accustomed
to trumpet work, quite apart from the fact that it is
impossible for any ventriloquist to carry on a conver
sation at the same time as his dummy "speaks"—a fre
quent occurrence at a trumpet seance (see p. 192).
Also the impossibility of producing more than one
distinct voice simultaneously, by ventriloqual means,
rules out that explanation entirely.
Objectors have often pointed out that the alleged
spirit talks exactly like the medium. The foregoing
will answer, at least in part, this important observa
tion. The very similarity of the two voices is ad
duced by many experts to be a convincing proof of
the authenticity of the phenomenon.
That the medium does not do the talking has been
definitely proved by the ingenuity of Dr. Crandon's
air-pressure apparatus, in which the height of a
column of water is maintained by the valve action of
the medium's tongue, inhibiting the free passage of
air from the apparatus so long as the tongue is pressed
against the escape tube orifice. Sniffing the mouth
with cotton wool also affords definite evidence as to
the supernormal character of "the voice."
Extraordinary Complications. An impartial enquiry
such as this must include some sources of error that
have an immense bearing upon the question of
survival.
180
"THE TRUMPET SHALL SOUND"
Case No. i
In San Francisco, some little time ago, during the
course of a trumpet seance held at about 4 p.m., a
voice came through and expressed the usual greeting
plus a rather veiled suggestion of happiness experi
enced "over here" (i.e., the Spirit World). This
greatly alarmed one of the sitters, who recognized
the clear and characteristic voice of his mother, whom
he had left scarcely two hours before in a town some
twenty miles away, in the best of health and spirits.
It is important to add that the young man was a
skilled musician, and therefore would be specially
qualified by virtue of his training to distinguish his
own mother's voice at least. Fearing the worst, the
youth hurried back to his home. His mother had
cooked a good dinner for him during the afternoon
that she was supposed to be communicating from the
beyond! What are we to say to this?
No one could convince the sitter that the voice he
heard was NOT his own mother's dulcet tones.
Therefore hallucination seems out. This is further
supported by the calibre of the young man physically
and mentally being in every way normal. He was,
further, unaccustomed to delving into the occult.
Therefore we are left with about two possible alter
natives, in view of the above and the fact that the
medium knew neither the young man nor his mother:
(1) impersonation by some discarnate intelligence,
or (2) the fantastic supposition that the mother, who
181
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
took a nap about 4 p.m., for some reason in her "as
tral" body came to speak through the trumpet. That
this second explanation is improbable is shown by the
following case, which is further complicated by
"xenoglossy" (speaking in foreign tongues).
Case No. 2
This also took place in San Francisco less than two
years ago. The medium concerned was an extremely
powerful man, possessing a very average education
and no knowledge of foreign tongues. Knowing of
this individual's great psychic power, the author per
suaded two very skeptical persons— man and wife—
to attend one of his famous trumpet seances. It so
happened that the evening they turned up at the me
dium's house, the time was to be devoted to research
work, and numerous persons were assembled for that
purpose, but at the last moment two of the expected
sitters were unable to attend, so that the two friends
of the author were admitted in their stead—"to bal
ance the magnetism."
During the course of the evening, many languages
came through the trumpet—including fluent Latin, al
legedly spoken by a priest of the early forties, who
had hanged himself in his cell.
It was not until almost closing time that the voice
from the trumpet turned to our very skeptical friends,
and when it did, it began to speak in Norwegian,
somewhat haltingly at first, but gathering strength
182
THE TRUMPET SHALL SOUND"
and fluency as the seconds passed. No one in the
room except the husband could follow what was
being said, although his wife could make out a word
here and there, sufficient to identify the language.
The voice in its first phase was purporting to be that
of the young man's grandfather, and in unmistakable
terms was painting a vivid picture of paradise. Then
the pitch of the voice became higher, so that it was
apparent to all that a woman was involved. She en
dorsed what the old gentleman had just said and
added that she was the young man's maternal
grandma.
Naturally the skeptical young people were aston
ished, and talking it over with them in public, im
mediately after the seance, the author waxed eloquent
over the unequivocal evidence that they had been fa
voured with on their first contact with the super
normal. The following day, the author thought he
detected a rather peculiar glint of amusement in the
young couple's eyes, and the readiness with which
they entered into the "new truth" seemed a little too
marked to be commensurate with the conversion of
two such "exhibit A" skeptics, and after some time,
the young man delivered himself thusly:
"Cross, old bean! that was a wonderful 'stunt' you
'put over' on M. and me last night. How you man
aged the Norwegian we can't figure out— do tell us!
There was only one thing you forgot to arrange for—
the murder of Grandpa and Grandma— ALL OUR
GRANDPARENTS ARE LIVING!!"
183 f
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
Needless to say, it took a long time before it could
be resolved into its fundamental elements, and equally
needless to remark, the young couple are more skep
tical than ever as to the genuineness of psychic
phenomena.
Additional points of interest in this case are as
follows:
( 1
) The author neither speaks nor has any knowl
edge of any Scandinavian language; nor was he aware
that the mother tongue of the young man was Nor
wegian. He spoke English free from accent— ac
cording to Americans!
(2) The presence of the couple at this seance was
accidental; the author had no knowledge that this
evening had been selected by them. No one else
knew of their coming.
(3) Only the medium and his manager, beside the
author, had ever seen the couple previously.
(4) An exhaustive time-check with due regard to
differences in hour, established the fact that the
grandpa was most certainly awake at the hour of the
communication. There was some doubt as to the
female relative being asleep.
(5) The young lady stated that the voice of the
lady grandparent was authentic, but that she had some
doubt about the male voice, although at times it
seemed characteristic. The young man agreed with
his wife in regard to the male voice, but would not
commit himself regarding the voice of Grandma.
The explanation given by the psychic and his man
184
THE TRUMPET SHALL SOUND
ager
is,
of course, that of personation by "joking
spirits" aggravated by the presence of two such posi
tive and skeptical sitters. This very trifling with the
tender instincts of our nature by the so-called spirit
intelligences, through their habitual impersonation of
the dead,
is
indication of
a
high degree of moral
perverseness.
The next case
is
a colossal piece of evidence for
the survival of intelligence and personality.
It
oc
curred in New York
a
few years ago to
a
professor,
who was in no way interested in Spiritualism nor
au fait with the technique of psychic activities. He
was introduced into the seance under somewhat false
pretenses, as his services as translator alone had been
requisitioned.
Case No.
3
The brief account of this case
is
extracted from
Dr. Whymant's own book, Psychic Adventures in
New York. Exhaustive details of this case and other
work of the medium Valiantine—
a
typical example
of the simpler American citizen, will be found therein.
First,
it
should be stated that Dr. Neville Why-
mant, an Oxford scholar,
is
a
master of more than
thirty languages, and
is
an authority on the Orient.
He
is
one of about half-a-dozen men in the entire
world who have
a
knowledge of ancient Chinese.
The seance was held in the New York apartment
of Mrs. William Cannon, who
is
the Secretary of
the San Francisco section of the American
S.
P. R.
185
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
Mrs. Cannon had just extinguished the lights, and
the Lord's Prayer was said, when, injected into the
voices of the sitters, who were, as is customary, sing
ing to the accompaniment of a gramaphone, was the
sound of a strong voice raised in greeting.
"It seemed to rise up from the floor," said Dr.
Whymant, "and was so strong that for some moments
I felt convinced that I could actually feel the vibra
tions of the floor." Then followed personal mes
sages for the regular sitters. "Presently," continued
Dr. Whymant, "there sounded a very strong voice
like that of an Italian singer. 'Christo di Angelo' was
roared at full lung force. . . . The mobility and
speed of movement of these voices was not the least
remarkable feature of the experience. More personal
messages followed, then, a sound difficult to describe
—it was the sound of an old wheezy flute not too skil
fully played.* ... In a few seconds it carried me
back to sights and experiences in the old Celestial
Kingdom. . . .
"I sensed the eager thrill that ran through all the
people there gathered as they heard the sound and
waited for what was to follow. There was a rustling
of silks as women straightened themselves in their
chairs, there was the sharp intake of breath around
the circle, and I noticed at the same moment the
heavy, languorous breathing of Valiantine, whose
•
At the Norman circle in Sydney, transcendental music of a
string band was a regular occurrence. Radio was not then developed
in Australia. Other investigators have reported music of this kind
heard by all present in the vicinity.
1 86
"THE TRUMPET SHALL SOUND"
position, directly facing me, I kept in the forefront
of my mind. The flute-like sound faded, then
stopped.
"The next sound seemed to be a hollow repetition
of a Chinese name— K'ung-fu-tzu— the name by which
Confucius was canonized. . . . Now, I thought, was
my opportunity. Chinese I had long regarded as my
own special research area, and he would be a wise
man, medium or other, who would attempt to trick
me on such soil. If this tremulous voice were that of
the old ethicist who had personally edited the Chinese
Classics, then I had an abundance of questions to
ask him."
The loose ends of these classics have defied some
twenty-five centuries of commentators, and as the
voice went on, Dr. Whymant realized that he was
listening to a Chinese of a purity and delicacy not
spoken now in any part of China; a voice was speak
ing in the style identical with that used in the ancient
Confucian Classics two thousand five hundred years
ago.
"Only among the scholars of Archaic Chinese
could one now hear that accent and style," adds Dr.
Whymant. That Chinese was as dead colloquially
as Sanskrit, and for a much longer period of time.
After much conversation in Chinese with the
"voice," which yielded the most satisfactory evidence
as to "life" and "style" of the alleged communicator,
Dr. Whymant thought of the supreme test. There
are many poems in the Shih King (classic of poetry)
187
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
which have baffled all commentators since the time
Confucius himself edited the work and left it to
posterity.
"Western scholars have attempted in vain," con
tinues the doctor, "to wrest from them their meaning,
and Chinese classsical scholars versed in the lore and
literature of the ancient Empire have long ago given
up trying to understand them." Dr. Whymant then
tried to recall the first line of one of these poems, sup
posing that by such means he would astound the com
municator who called himself Confucius.
Using the flowery language of the Chinese hon-
orifics, he asked "the Master" to explain the meaning
of one of these long-obscure odes. No sooner had
the doctor said the first line than the "voice" took up
the poem and repeated it to the end.
"Read in this way," the "voice" said, "does not its
meaning become plain?"
"Surprised as I was," said Dr. Whymant, "I did
not intend to let matters rest here. So now, I
thought, was my opportunity to set another test. A
communication might proceed from a medium or
spirit, said the scoffers, but never was anything said
which could not be better said by an intelligent man
on earth. ... I thereupon addressed a question to
the 'voice':
"
'Shall I ask one passage in the Master's own writ
ing? In Lun Yii, Hsia Pien, there is a passage which
is wrongly written. Should it not read thus: . . .?'
But before I could get out even the details of the pas
188
"THE TRUMPET SHALL SOUND
sage in question, the 'voice' took up my sentence and
carried it through to the end."
"You were going to ask me about the two charac
ters which end the last two phrases? You are quite
right. The copyists were in error."
The passage was then rectified by the "voice," and
"Again the wind was taken out of my sails," the doc
tor concluded.
The reader must bear in mind that the above
lengthy conversation was carried on between Dr.
Whymant and the "voice" in ancient Chinese; the
latter had some difficulty in understanding the doc
tor's purely modern Chinese.
The principal item of interest that came through
during the several sittings Dr. Whymant attended at
the Cannons' was the remarkable translation by the
communicator of an obscure verse of the third poem
of the Shih King. Here is a sample of the best trans
lation extant by Legge:
"I was ascending that lofty ridge,
But my horses turned of a dark yellow.
I will now take a cup from that rhinocerous horn,
Hoping I may not have long to sorrow."
Now for the "voice's" version of the same verse:
"Then while ascending that lofty ridge
My horses changed colour from fright;
Let me pour out a draught from that horn-vessel
To break down my stabbing sorrow."
189
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
Special attention is directed to the second line of
each verse, as Dr. Whymant challenged the voice to
explain the figures of speech here, especially "My
horses changed colour from fright"; the voice stated
that even before the woman was aware of
it,
the
horses could see the spirit of the dead lover (alluded
to in the poem) and sweated with fright, thus darken
ing in colour. During the discussions that Dr. Why
mant had with the "voice" many points which have
completely baffled scholars were cleared up.
THE VOICE OF SCIENTIFIC AUTHORITY
There can be little doubt as to the important evi
dence afforded by this communication.
It
can hardly
be explained by telepathy! We might well ask what
has science to say to this.
Our leading physicist, Sir Oliver Lodge, says,
".
.
.
on any view
it
is
an extraordinary phenomenon
well worthy of study.
It
does not seem necessary to
assume the actual presence of the great Chinese Sage
himself, but
it
is
possible that some disciple of that
period may be exerting himself, as so many others on
that side are exerting themselves, to give scholarly
proof of survival. . .
."
Professor Richet wrote to the present author for
Dr. Whymant's book, and after perusal declared,
"There
is
no doubt as to the reality of Xenoglossy—
this evidence for
it
is
wonderful.
"When the languages spoken are unknown to the
190
"THE TRUMPET SHALL SOUND
medium or sitters, as in this case, it is a veritable mar
vel AND DECIDEDLY THE SPIRIT EXPLA
NATION IS THE MOST ACCEPTABLE."
The testimony of Mr. Stanley de Brath is still more
satisfying to the spiritualist. He says, "I think it came
for the express purpose of giving a proof of long
dated survival which no sophisms can refute."
But what have the specialists in Chinese of that
period to say? The writer has communicated with
a few of the world's best, and although he is not privi
leged to publish their individual opinions, he regrets
to say that they are all inclined to carp at the matter.
They express themselves as unconvinced that Dr.
Whymant could not, himself, have done as well as
the shade of Confucius. An American professor of
Chinese is most vehement in his declaration that "he
sees nothing that is beyond the capabilities of Dr.
Whymant." These opinions may be extremely flat
tering to Dr. jWhymant, but the author has a shrewd
suspicion that the writers did not mean it that way!
The general disinclination of these latter critics to
listen to any prophets makes it tolerably certain that
"neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from
the dead."
Case No. 4: The Author's Case of Xenoglossy
In concluding this chapter, the author begs to offer
in evidence a case of his own that occurred last year
in San Francisco through the mediumship of Harry
J9i
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
Aldrich, a powerful trumpet medium from Detroit.
After many entities had expressed themselves in about
six different languages, the meeting was about to
break up when a girl's voice came through the trum
pet and spoke in fluent French. No one paid much
attention to
it;
the hour was late and the sitters were
restless in their chairs; several were engaging in con
versation with each other. Gradually the trumpet
came across to the author, and
it
suddenly dawned
upon him that he was listening to the voice of
a
for
mer English student of his—
a
very bad one— who had
had the misfortune to die with
a
tubercular condition
of the throat in her twentieth year. The mode of
speech was so characteristic, and of such rapidity, that
the only other person in the room who could follow
any French was unable to keep up with
it
and lost
interest.
By this time the general conversation had reached
such an intensity that even the author was obliged to
ask the "voice" to repeat several times. This greatly
exasperated the young lady, who had not the patience
of Confucius, and she descended into the argot of the
quartier, in which we both formerly had lived. So
violent had she become that the medium tried to in
terfere, and everybody heard his voice at the same
time as that
of
the discarnate. The medium had not
been in
a
trance at any time during the evening. At
length, with
a
"merde alors" the trumpet banged
down on the table and sustained
a
large dent, much to
the medium's displeasure.
x 192
"THE TRUMPET SHALL SOUND"
The identity was perfect in all respects, although
the name was not given. No other person had any
interest in the matter— except the owner of the trum
pet, and the entity never came through on any other
occasion.
The power available through Aldrich was so great
that the "voices" could be heard blocks away, and
many were the complaints from other tenants of
the building about the ribaldry emanating from the
Aldrich suite. The complainants would have been
surprised, indeed, had they known that the alleged
"wild party" was a purely transcendental production
—women and all!
"Spirits" That Visited!
Before leaving the subject of trumpets, the author
would like to add a brief note concerning a group
sitting that he had in Alameda, California, with Mrs.
Etta Wriedt, a lady over eighty, who works in a non-
trance state. On this occasion a male voice came
through the trumpet asking for "Sally." At the same
time a female voice independently issued from another
part of the room calling "John". Both these voices
were claimed as relatives by two of the sitters; how
ever, the voices would have none of them, and the
male voice said, "we do not know anyone here". A
few seconds later, another of the sitters, who had
presumably not followed the previous conversation,
tried to connect himself with the "Sally" voice sug
193
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
gesting it to be that of his grandmother. But the 'Spirit'
denied the relationship. At the same moment the
'John' of the trumpet informed the group that they
did not know any of them and in a pleading voice
added, "won't you please let me talk to Sally, I have
not seen her for so long. We have not met over here
before." Then followed a spirited conversation last
ing a minute or more between "spirits" Sally and
John, that was enthralling by its very sincerity and
simplicity. With a gracious "Thank you so much
dear friends, goodnight", they departed whence they
came, and the seance went on without further in
terruption.
In experimenting with trumpet mediums, it is es
sential to have them under satisfactory conditions,
and not to be prejudiced by negative seances—at
which these apparently do not prevail. In more
senses than one, a medium may come with a great
flourish of trumpets and turn out a "flop." Even
Valiantine could do no mighty works in Berlin, and
Dr. Hans Driesch of Leipzig referred to his German
sittings as "a lamentable farce."
194
Chapter XIII
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
TO SOME minds, all that we have discussed up to
this point constitutes what might be termed the
"Ballyhoo of Beulah-land," the purpose of which is
to attract that section of humanity whose attention
can be gained only by signs and wonders.
More conservative minds assess physical phe
nomena at the same value as the experiments per
formed by the laboratory assistant, who is employed
to demonstrate some scientific truth, under the direc
tion of his overlord, the professor of the faculty.
The task of exposition is adjudged beyond the erudi
tion of the mere demonstrator.
The subject matter of this chapter has been drawn
from thousands of cases, any one of which might
have served. However, those included are more typi
cal of what the student should seek in his search for
metapsychic evidence of survival. Admittedly, the
general level of "spirit" messages and other psychic
evidence of the kind found in the vast majority of
spiritualistic churches and circles is deplorable and
more than deserves the criticism of a recent reviewer,
195
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
"that it constitutes little else than the rubbish of a
half-educated mind, which has supernormal gifts."
The Findings of Scientists. We see in men two dis
tinct orders of mentality, the one bound by the limi
tations of thought pertaining solely to the physical
order, and are hence aware only of the normal se
quence of cause and effect; and the other a tran
scendental order of mind, superior to the routine of
causes in the physical world. The first tends to ac
cept the universal dominance of nature enslaving men
to circumstances, both consciously and actually.
Transcendental mind, on the other hand, lacking
mechanistic and fatalistic attributes, is expanded into
a sphere of causeless consciousness and will. Tran
scendental thought develops an increasing awareness
of the power of free will and self-determinism, and
creates in the physical consciousness itself new modes
of volition, which finally tend to impose themselves
upon all the events and processes of physical life, and
thus change the face of nature by the creation of a
new spiritual and material order.
Eddington has well said that "scientists are drag
ging to light, as the basis of all phenomena that come
within their province, a skeleton scheme of sym
bols. . . . But no one believes that what is omitted
has no existence. The skeleton of symbols cries out
to be filled. But it cries out in vain to physics.
Physical science has no way of clothing the skeleton
—we must go back to consciousness— the only place
196
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
to which we can turn. There we find other reve
lations. Are these true or false? We can answer
only according to our convictions. REASONING
FAILS US ALTOGETHER."
The above may well have come from a textbook
of parapsychology instead of from the pen of one of
the most outstanding of the present-day physicists,
Sir Arthur Eddington. Like Sir Arthur Keith, he
believes that the brain has powers undreamed of by
the average person. He inclines to the opinion that
we can, by mind power, affect the atomic groups;
even though we cannot toy with the individual atoms
of the brain cells, it is even possible— according to
Eddington—to tamper with the odds on atomic be
haviour; mind has the power to set aside statistical
laws that hold good in inorganic matter. Finally, he
believes that the course of the world is not predeter
mined by physical laws, and that it may be altered by
the "uncaused volitions of human beings."
Even more recently, Sir James Jeans, in the course
of his presidential address to the British Association,
made it abundantly clear that the theoretical physicist
must admit that his own department looks like noth
ing so much as a building which has been brought
down in ruins by a succession of earthquake shocks.
"The old physics," says Sir James, "showed us a
universe which looked more like a prison than a
dwelling-place. The new physics shows us a build
ing which is certainly more spacious, although its in
terior doors may be either open or locked— we cannot
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
say. But we begin to suspect it may give us room
for such freedom as we have always believed we pos
sessed; it seems possible at least that in it we can mould
events to our desire, and live lives of emotion, intel
lect and endeavour. It looks as though it might form
a suitable dwelling-place for man, and not a mere
shelter for brutes."
Sir James further states that ordinary time and
space cannot provide an adequate canvas for such a
picture, and even hints at six dimensions of space and
one of time! So we see that the occultists who prated
about the introduction of a fourth dimension are de
moded and superseded by Science with a capital S.
The painstaking work of Eugene Osty at the Paris
International Metapsychic Institute, and the more re
cent investigations of Professor J. B. Rhine and his
associates on their hundred thousand psychic guinea
pigs at Duke University with their radio sequel, in
cline the student of psychic research towards a decid
edly anti-spiritist explanation of metagnomy. To
many this is all to the good. The classical experimen
tation of Osty has long proved beyond a shadow of a
doubt that a former presumption is not now justified.
That
is,
that the revelation of facts, unknown to the
medium and the sitters but known to the communi
cating intelligence,
is
positive evidence of
a
spirit en
tity. To many more this
is
mere evasion by science of
an unpleasant situation which, in the words of Richet,
198
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
"is positively painful for a man of science to con
template."
Parapsychology has indeed unearthed many new
facts in regard to the activities of the subconscious
mind and its power to simulate what to the lesser in
formed would at once appear to be the work of dis-
carnate spirit intelligence. Further, the volume of
facts furnished by Rhine still increase our astonish
ment at the possibilities of the human mind. Never
theless, one who goes the whole way with Osty and
Rhine would hardly balk at the proposition that we
may be as much "spirits" now as ever we shall be
in a future state of existence when we doubtless— to
employ the dictum of Osty— shall have the freer exer
cise of our faculties unfettered by cerebral function
and on that transcendental plane of thought that even
Osty admits "is perhaps not extinguished at the death
of the body."
"Through the Gate of Distance." This is the more
poetic expression used by the natives of South Sea
Islands, and in Darkest Africa, for what we moderns
know as "clairvoyance"— most decidedly an angle of
Jean's additional dimensions! Practically all forms of
mental mediumship are in some way linked up with
this "clear-seeing." Many thousands of individuals,
men, women and children, possess this uncanny
power to a degree. Some hundreds of persons ( i in
100,000) possess clairvoyance to a high degree, whilst
a few have astonishing powers of lucidity, such as
199
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
Ossowietzky, a Polish engineer— a clairvoyant of
strictly amateur status and who, according to Pro
fessor Richet, "never committed any errors." Gen
tlemen are not alone in excellence, as in England we
have Mrs. Estelle Roberts— a professional medium
who seems to be extra-lucid.
Savage and Civilized Clairvoyance. In order to en
lighten the reader who may be totally unacquainted
with the methods of mediums and spiritualistic
churches, the author begs to describe two cases from
his many records that will afford the reader the maxi
mum of information with the minimum of effort.
Case i in Natal, South Africa
Just a little way outside of the town of Petermaritz-
burg was gathered a small crowd of gesticulating na
tives (Zulus) . They appeared to be pointing to what
seemed to be a dying tribal chief who was rolling
around in the dust. Clutched in his hand was a bleed
ing pigeon. Soon the wizened native stopped his con
vulsions, and spreading to the heavens his withered
hands with their long claw-like nails, he raised him
self to his knees and drew the crowd towards him
and his bleeding pigeon; the latter was most carefully
laid on a large, flat, white stone, preparatory to hav
ing its heart cut out.
The very clumsy dissection finished, the witch
doctor, for such he was, transfixed one of the noisy
spectators with his beady eyes, and the mob relapsed
200
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
into silence. The interpreter and the author drew
closer, and it became apparent that some unholy rite
had commenced, as the blood of the bird was sprin
kled over some burning bullock-dung. As the cloud
of smoke sought the evening air, the witch-doctor
began to pronounce his magic for the especial benefit
of the, by now, half-hypnotized native. He was
being told of his wives and his oxen and the death
that was due for his enemies. The others of the
group were given messages in like manner. Gradually
the group broke up and went away into the veldt.
The author and his friend proceeded to leave, but the
doctor detained them for a reading, too. Fanning the
sinking fire, the doctor threw a handful of small bones
into the air and seemed fascinated by the manner in
which they had fallen. Passing his bony fingers over
them, he began to "mutter" and to "chirp." The
native interpreter gave the author the following very
interesting translation: "Witch-doctor say baas go
way from 'Maritzburg soon." (This came true.)
"Now he see big fire on veldt. All blown up.
Raining gold like dirt. Distant baas no get die, he
burn arm."
The reader should observe that the witch-doctor
spoke (as indicated by italics) in the present tense—
a common practice among modern civilized seers,
too! Actually, within a few hours after this vision,
at a little settlement near Johannesburg and some 500
miles from where the vision was told to the author, a
veldt fire caused the burning of a hut in which were
201
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
stored some forty golden sovereigns in a cocoa tin,
and next to them some detonators used in mining op
erations for firing the dynamite. The latter had ex
ploded and blown up the gold, about half of which
was ultimately recovered in small torn and twisted
fragments. In the attempt to rescue his goods a pro
spective farmer—formerly a miner—who camped
nearby, was badly burnt in the left arm and chest.
The author, who had never heard of this man, did
not become aware of these facts until he encountered
the man's partner in Johannesburg. The author was
previously engaged to work for the partner on the
destroyed property, hence the "tie-up" with the
writer.
Case 2 in Oakland, California
It may seem a far cry from Africa to Oakland, but
in the world of spirits, time and space do not exist,
we are told.
Attention is directed to plate VII, which illustrates
a modern spiritualist gathering of people who wished
to go "through the gate of distance." The witch
doctor was replaced by the "medium," who had
neither convulsions nor groans, but conducted herself
in a dignified manner as becomes a Sunday night.
The howling, gesticulating natives were replaced by
the congregation, who were made up of earnest, sin
cere and, for the most part, poor people. The ma
jority of the people in the pews and the personnel on
the platform believed in Spiritualism with a child-
202
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
like faith, and if they did not always receive the sub
stance of the things hoped for, it was not their fault.
The lady with arm upraised, Margaret Foley, a New
Zealander, was the minister, who was flash-lighted in
the act of "discerning spirits." The surrounding
group were the "co-workers," including speaker, mu
sicians and healers, healing being a broad plank in
the platform of the true spiritualist.
Actually their Sunday service differed but slightly
from that found in any little country church, except
that at one place in the service a definite pause was
made to heal the sick. The prayers were addressed to
a bi-sexual Deity, "Father, Mother God," and great
stress was laid on the coalescing of the "two expres
sions of life" (i.e., this and the next) .
Spirits of the loved ones were invited to draw near,
and according to the medium, they approached and
filled the vacant seats, and roamed up and down the
aisles.
A guest preacher or lecturer delivered a discourse
on some scientific or philosophic aspect of Spiritual
ism, and at the conclusion the offering was taken up
by the ushers.
Then the great moment arrived, and the medium
"went into her work." Standing as shown in the
photograph, she reverently asked the Divine Power
to give her the Truth.
"Now friends," she commenced, "I want you to
relax. Do not think very much of anything and do
not concentrate on me. We have come here to meet
203
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
our loved ones, and friends, I want you to give me
your voice at once when I come in touch with you—
I need the vibration of your voice in order to reach
you with a message" (cf. carrier wave of radio
broadcast) .
"I am going down the aisle to the back of the
church, to the lady with the green hat— excuse me,
dear, for being personal. Do you know, dear, there
has been a man in uniform seated beside you all the
evening?" The lady almost jumped out of her skin
—she was sitting alone, or at least that was what she
thought!
"Do you have a brother in 'Spirit'?"
*
"Yes, Ma'am," whispered the lady.
"Speak louder, dear," retorted the medium, who,
in reality, had never left the platform. The lady in the
green hat blushed and did as she was bid. "Can you
place 'George'?" the medium continued. "He brings
a brother's 'light.' He tells me he was a soldier in the
Great War and was killed in France; he says you
have a medal around your neck that he gave you
when you were a little girl." The lady looked puz
zled and felt at her throat and started to cry silently.
Evidently the message was recognized. The medium
tried to console her by telling her that her brother
was not dead.
"Tell me, did you not break a cup this morning?"
Tearfully the little lady affirmed this fact. "Your
•
When the author first heard this expression he drew a wrong
conclusion; cremation was familiar to him but !
204
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
brother tells me also that you said
'
.' Now, how
should I know that, my dear! I have never seen you
before in my life so far as I know. Is this the first
spiritual communication you have received?"
After a few more tears the lady weakly said, "No,
I have been here once before, and a gentleman gave
me a message, but I did not understand it."
"I am coming to you, brother, no, not you, the
brother with his hand to his chin. Yes, you. Would
you please unfold your arms. I cannot reach you if
your arms are crossed as it short-circuits the mag
netism and you keep everything out."
At this point the author, who was some twenty feet
from the medium, thought out loud— a bare sound—
"Now she is getting electrical." This expression was
"picked up" by the sensitive, and to the author's
embarrassment, repeated to the astonished multitude,
and he had to admit that he had so expressed himself.
The friend who was seated next to the writer could
not hear what he had uttered, but he said that he saw
a movement of the author's lips.
The "brother," having uncrossed his arms, got
plenty. "Are you a believer in our work, brother?"
"No, Ma'am, not exactly."
"
'Not exactly'—oh, I see, but you are going to be
convinced shortly, we must get to work on you!"
replied the medium. "Did you ever follow the sea?
I see you on a beautiful four-masted sailing ship. You
are the captain. There are one— two— three . . .
205
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
eighteen in the crew on board—counting yourself.
Could you place this, brother?"
"Yes, Ma'am," replied the florid-complexioned sea
man, "but that was many years ago. Many of those
'boys' have gone to Davy Jones by now. Two of 'em
were drowned on her last voyage to Fiji."
"Yes, brother," the medium interjected, "those two
were swept off the deck in a storm, but you also lost
another sailor that trip, didn't you?" At this point
some conversation occurred which ultimately cleared
up the matter; the captain recalled that there was an
other casualty.
"Did you not have two Maoris in the crew?"
"Yes," the skipper replied, "those were the two
who were drowned."
"They are here now," continued the psychic, "and
what happened to the cook, brother?"
"That other sailor you spoke of was the cook," he
replied.
"Where do you suppose that I am getting all this
—from your mind?" The captain seemed impressed
to a degree, and said that he was sure that she did not
get it from his mind as he was not thinking about the
ship— had not thought about it for many years.
Had the captain but known
it,
he had little ground
for his sureness, as
it
is
quite certain that sensitives do
not "pick" our conscious minds as
a
regular thing;
they operate on the subconscious mind more easily.
It
is
just here that lies the enormous difficulty of defi
nitely establishing the "spirit" hypothesis, as heaven
206
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
only knows what a gifted psychic could not drag
out of a sitter's subconscious.
Finishing with the captain, the medium said, "Your
cook is here beside me on the platform, he is the one
that told me all this. He has just told me that you
had a crew of nineteen. He forgot to count himself,
because he is here with me!" This astounding infor
mation was confirmed by the captain, who, like the
"spirit cook," forgot to include himself in the count
of the crew— another point of evidence that we do
not change so much when we become discarnated.
Message after message was given and practically
all were recognized by the recipients. The hour was
now past 10 p.m., so the medium blessed the congre
gation and the service was ended.
Margaret Foley in addition to her church work
runs a sort of spiritualistic clinic during the whole of
Friday afternoon, at which all and sundry come for
healing and messages of a more material character.
At this seance, the medium is supposed to be blind.
Certainly her eyes are closed, and she is quite unaware
of the departure of one or more sitters. This is shown
by the fact that X may have had a message and de
parted, as is the custom after being served, but a few
minutes later the medium comes back to the chair on
which X sat and speaks to him as if he were still there,
until one of the remaining sitters informs her of
X's departure. The evidential level of the Friday
"clinic" is the same as that found at the larger Sunday
gathering.
207
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
A few words as to development of this Margaret
Foley's power may prove of interest. She was edu
cated in a Roman Catholic Convent in her early
years in New Zealand, and since has been self-
educated. Married at an early age to a sea captain,
life for her became a succession of hazardous voyages
in a sailing ship that trafficked in whales and arctic
explorers. It was during her many years of this
strenuous sea life that, to use her own words, she "un
folded" her "spiritual" powers—in the icy Antarctic.
With the death of her husband, her metagnomy
increased very considerably, and as time passed she
acquired some reputation locally as an extra-lucid
clairvoyante, her special phase being the accurate pre
diction of the future of her patrons.
Using Osty's researches as a guide, the author com
menced the sittings referred to in San Francisco.
In order to render the successes as conspicuous as
possible, no predictions of personal marriages or other
questions involving intensely emotional states were
included in the hundred examples. Predictions that
were only slightly inaccurate as to time were counted
as successful since the element of time in most pre
visions is doubtful. Incidentally, Mrs. Foley states
that she is "not allowed" to give time— and then usu
ally proceeds to give it! Errors in color were equally
overlooked in those cases in which the color element
was only incidental to the prevision. In one case, the
color of a new dress was given as red, and it turned
out to be a shot material in which the red was only a
208
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
minor note, unless the material was transversely illu
minated. Similarly, slight confusion as to names of
towns was excused. In one case, a certain business
associate was to hail from Birmingham, Alabama;
when he turned up, the author recognized his accent
as coming from Birmingham, Englandl The medium
had seen the word Birmingham written over the man's
head (sic) and had jumped to the conclusion that it
was the American city.
The analysis shows a pleasing diversity of subjects
involved, so that practically all phases of life and
human experience were covered.
With regard to the unfulfilled predictions, the psy
chic declared, when in the metagnomic state,* that it
was the time factor that was off center; that the
prophecy would eventually be fulfilled as given. In
the normal state, the medium stresses the fact that she
does not claim to be infallible.
There is nothing in the nature of the failures that
differentiates them from the successes, either in kind
or magnitude. The checking of results was accom
plished by personal enquiry or by letter, and, as many
of the subjects were acquaintances of the writer, the
matters were open to close scrutiny. Some of the
sitters voluntarily reported.
In choosing the cases, preference was always given
to scoffers and doubters, as it was shown that when
the metagnomic function was operative in association
•
This usually, though not always, resembles a condition found in
the lighter states of somnambulism provoked by hypnosis.
209
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
with such persons, the accuracy was greater and the
results were usually quicker; but above all, there
was little or no tendency to "help" the prophecy—
indeed, even in those cases in which success was
achieved, complete in every detail, it was admitted
grudgingly and was, almost invariably, attributed to
"coincidence."
The two examples that follow were given to a
scoffer and a skeptical believer in spiritualism, re
spectively. All notes taken at the time of the sittings.
Case 25: The French Motorcyclist
Sitter: "I have a letter that I should like you to put
the 'fluence' on."
The medium was shown and allowed to hold a
letter (in French) which had been recently received
from the sitter's Paris agent. Mrs. Foley cannot read
French, and therefore could form no idea of the con
tents, even had she been able to decipher the illegible
handwriting, and furthermore the seance room was
only dimly lighted.
Medium: "I get an unsettled condition with this. I
see the smoke of war, I hear the rumbling of guns-
large guns. I see a soldier—an officer. He is dressed
in a dirty, blue uniform. I get a brother's vibration.
I see a big A. He is trying to identify himself. He
is riding for dear life on a very muddy motorcycle.
Oh! he comes to a bridge. Oh! Oh!—he is blown up.
He is killed and his motorcycle is scattered."
210
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
Sitter: "This has no bearing upon the letter at all."
Medium: "But I get this, I am sure that it must be
connected with the letter in some way. However, I
leave it with you, brother. It will come to you; you
will see."
Next followed a very detailed description of the
circumstances surrounding the contents of the letter
itself, persons being described in detail and what they
were doing at the time recounted in the letter. A
suspected employee was cleared of a crime committed
by the manager and a neutral was alleged, by the me
dium, to have guilty knowledge of the affair.
Some months later the skeptical enquirer stated that
the manager had confessed and the neutral had ad
mitted complicity, as envisioned by the clairvoyante.
It transpired that the war episode recorded was con
nected with the writer of the letter. It was a clear
description of how his brother Andre met his death
on the Belgian frontier as he was riding home for
seven days' leave.
Case 8j: The Ferry Policeman
This little incident occurred during a demonstra
tion given by the medium before the Society's San
Francisco Section.
Medium: "Brother, have you a relative, a police
officer?"
Sitter: (One of a large group— all present) "No,
Madam."
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
Medium: "Well, I see a policeman standing at the
back of you, and he has a remarkably large and bright
star on his chest— quite a large badge."
Sitter: (Laughingly) "Perhaps it's a spiritual po
liceman!"
Medium: "No, he is in the body. You will place
it later, brother."
Sitter: "Sorry, I am not able to place him. I have
no dealings with police officers."
Five days later the son of the sitter, a student in the
writer's class, reported the success of the above. It
seems that his father accidentally dropped the wrong
amount of money into the pay box at the Ferry
Building, and was sought out by the company po
liceman to rectify the error. The prominent charac
teristic of the affair was the dazzling brilliancy of this
officer's large nickeled badge, which instantly recalled
the medium's prophecy.
According to the psychic, it was a relative of the
sitter who gave the above demonstration in order to
establish survival. Relatives or close friends, in almost
every one of the examined cases, were the alleged
agents of information. Only in one or two examples
was there any reference to the medium's "guides,"
and this occurs only in a confirmatory capacity.
The author begs to offer now what he considers to
be the most important piece of evidence that he has
ever received through any sensitive, and he draws spe
cial attention to the fact that this particular example
212
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
refutes the argument that little of real practical im
portance ever comes through such channels.
Case 43: The Medical Book
The author had written, some time ago, an exten
sive treatise on the electrical side of medicine, which
he had hoped to publish with his usual firm of pub
lishers. Due to the depression in the book trade, the
house had become involved in such serious financial
difficulties that their entire stock and plant (includ
ing four of the author's works) had been taken over
by another concern who were not interested in medi
cal works. The writer, therefore, sought a publisher
in America, where he had gone to lecture at a pro
fessional college.
The depression in America was far worse than in
England, and the book trade was especially "hard
hit." However, one of the most important firms
stated in their letter of refusal that if a publisher were
not found by the end of 1934, they would be glad to
give the work further consideration.
Thus the entire question was shelved, and the mat
ter dismissed from mind (at least in any pressing
sense) .
The Sitting of Dec. 7, 1933—4 P-M. (San Francisco)
Medium: "Brother, are you worried about a book
that is not yet published?"
Sitter: "No, but I have a medical work that I have
decided to send to Messrs. S. at the end of next year."
213
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
Medium: "Brother, you are making a mistake, that
book is urgent; it will be printed before the end of
1934. I see it in long strips. The type is so clear I
can almost read it."
Sitter: "That is most unlikely in view of the rela
tively small number of houses who are interested in
such works. Perhaps you could suggest one I have
not tried?"
Medium: "They * tell me it is one you have tried,
brother."
Sitter: "Oh, you mean S. They will probably do
it in 1935. I am not to send it until the end of 1934."
Medium: "I am going across water with your book.
I want you to send it back where it came from.
Those publishers will undertake it right away."
Sitter: "My dear lady, that is quite impossible; they
have 'gone broke' and all my other works have been
transferred elsewhere where there is no opening for a
medical book."
Medium: "I do not mean them. I want you to
send it back to the original house whose name begins
with a C—there are two names, but I am not shown
the second one."
Sitter: "Can you get the first name?"
Medium: "I see a crucifix. I am shown a great
big C."
Sitter: "I understand; the house of C. were Cath
olics. But there is absolutely no chance that the firm
* Remark the plural, presumably a reinforced communication.
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
of C. could establish their machinery in such a short
time— barring a miracle."
Medium: "I don't care. They
*
say lose no time,
or you will be sorry. Telegraph the firm in the East,
who now has the book, to send it to England. They
will do it free!"
The above sitting, as with others with the same
medium, was not in any way the result of a demand,
or even a wish on my part to ascertain the fate of the
book. The sittings were held solely with a view to
the investigation, in a scientific manner, of pre-vision
—a work upon which the writer has been engaged for
many years, dealing with some two hundred sensitives
in various parts of the world, recommended by the
various agencies of psychic research, etc., as being
specially gifted along the lines of foretelling events.
In the present case, much against his better judg
ment, the author requested (by air mail) that the
manuscript be returned to C. in England. Messrs. C.
had silently reorganized and were delighted to get it
back. They printed it immediately, not even waiting
for an agreement! Before the end of May, 1934, the
first of the "long strips" (galley proofs) began to ar
rive. As stated by Mrs. Foley, the type was unusu
ally clear.
Time marched on and the publishers got into fur
ther difficulties. The production of the book was
stopped and, in spite of some rather indefinite as
surance from extra-sensory sources, vide the medium,
the author concluded that the costly book with its
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
hundreds of illustrations had proved too much for
the resurrected house of C., and had accepted defeat.
References to the book became less and less fre
quent, and direct questions brought nothing but un
satisfying banalities. But during a sitting held in San
Francisco, March 5, 1935, 4:30 p.m., the following
was produced:
Medium: "You will get news of your medical book
in a hurry; yes, you will get a radiogram; there is a
new chapter they want you to write, some new dis
covery; you will do
it;
best thing."
Sitter: "Lady, you don't know my publishers.
I
doubt
if
they've sent
a
cable in their lives. Why
a
radio?"
Medium: "They show me
a
green form with lots
of words, and you will have to reply by radio, too!
There have been changes you don't know about."
Sitter: "Odd, indeed, as all the publishers turned
the book down on account of its length, and now you
suggest that they want
it
even longer! There
is
something 'screwy' somewhere!"
A few days after this sitting, an R.C.A. Radio
gram was received on
a
green form, containing fifty-
four words and requesting the author to consider
adding
a
further chapter on recent research in short
wave currents, and asking for some additional
il
lustrations.
It
was decided not to write the proposed new chap
ter and
a
radio message was sent to that effect. The
216
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
author had intended to reply by Western Union, but
the Radio rate was lower!
Then something happened in Germany with regard
to the theory of short-wave currents and their appli
cation which compelled a change of venue in regard
to the new chapter, so after all, the additional chap
ter had to be written.
After mailing
it,
further evidence came to light
from French sources which cast doubts on the Ger
man findings, so the new chapter was in many respects
unsatisfactory. The divinities that preside over in
competent authors must have been aware of the por
tending bill for author's corrections that would result,
since the chapter never reached the publishers, and
although an international tracer was sent out by the
post offices concerned,
it
was never found. The
chapter had, therefore, to be rewritten from the cor
rected material. This second effort reached its goal.
By this time the writer was almost persuaded that
there must be
a
very considerable extra-physical in
terest in his work, and more as
a
joke than as
a
scien
tific experiment, he handed the medium, in the hall of
her home, the complete galley proofs but minus the
extra chapter and all illustrations. These were done
up in
a
misshapen brown paper parcel tied with string.
Nothing was said beyond the question: "How many
pages will this make?" The psychic identified the
parcel as the medical book and said most definitely,
"380." Comment was made (by the writer) upon
the lowness of the number, and he made
a
rough esti
217
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
mate that the book would run to about 500-550 pages.
This statement produced some hesitation on the part
of Mrs. Foley, and she said that she was shown "405"
and hoped that the author would like this better. This
information was given in a spirit of banter and smil
ingly. Thinking it a joke, the author made no effort
to record it. Certainly, it flashed across his mind that
these apparently stupid figures would spoil an other
wise amazing exhibition of lucidity, and in any case
he salved his scientific conscience with the fact that
they were given unofficially before the sitting proper.
As the writer was removing his overcoat, the medium
asked if he were not going to make a note. He there
upon replied that just for spite he would, and wrote
them on the woodwork of the hall stand! During this
writing operation the color of the cover was given as
"a beautiful shade of blue"— this was disappointing,
as the favored cover was red.
Early in November, 1936, an advance announce
ment was received which gave the number of pages
as "xxvi-380" making a total of "406." The page
proofs had already indicated the large size of page to
be used, with its consequent reduction in number.
Upon locating the number inscribed on the hall-
stand, the correctness of the forecast was established
for the body of the book, and only one out for the
second, which read "405" in place of the correct
fig
ure "406." This minute discrepancy was the only
flaw in an otherwise perfect case of clairvoyance.
However, honesty compelled him to allude to
it
when
218
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
the matter was dealt with. And then, one day, as he
was idly turning the leaves of the famous book, his
attention was attracted to page xxv, and he was
about to close the book when he discovered that the
next page, the 26th, was blankl So, after all, the
clairvoyance had been absolutely correct, since the
visible numbers when added together did make a total
of "405."
Presumably, the delay that occurred between the
two estimates (which the author attributed to guess
ing) was due to the intelligence adding the two sets
of figures together.
Whatever Drs. Osty and Rhine and their disciples
may think of the above, it would seem abundantly
evident that some intelligence— incarnate or discar-
nate—was doing its level best to stimulate activity on
THIS side of the veil.
At private sittings, insofar as pre-vision is con
cerned, the work of Margaret Foley is accurate to
87 per cent, taking a hundred selected cases over a
period of two years, which the author has personally
verified. Many of the pre-visions were trivial, but
from a scientific point of view this does not lessen
their value.
Among the more trivial cases of this clairvoyante,
we might cite the following which occurred under
impromptu conditions. The writer had sought out
Mrs. Foley for the purpose of a serious experimental
sitting, but the good lady was busy in her kitchen,
cooking her frugal evening meal. As soon as the
219
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
author had offered his greetings the medium, with one
hand stirring a stew, began with her disengaged hand
to descibe a large "X" in the air. This she said repre
sented the lines drawn from corner to corner of the
author's room and where they intersected, he would
find his lost fountain-pen cap.
It was perfectly true, the writer intended to ask
the good lady if her "guide" could find this precious
object of sentimental rather than commercial value.
It was subsequently found exactly as indicated.
Another item of very much more importance— a
trunk with some very valuable contents—was never
found, although the principal points of interest were
correctly given, and some of the contents were repre
sented to the author as being placed before him in
token of their sure recovery. The fact that a valuable
and much-prized milliamperemeter autographed by
d'Arsonval himself formed the principal object of her
lucidity bears out this statement. Regarding the trunk
itself, the medium gave no absolute certainty, seem
ingly being definite only about part of its contents.
To the time of writing, none of this has materialized.
This is one of those cases in which the sitter is too
much concerned about the matter.
In a subsequent volume the author hopes to deal
in great detail with the work of this psychic— and in
deed many others— with regard to the foretelling
function, but all that he can say here, is that excellent
results are only possible when the problem is not
"eating the heart out" of the consultor. The work
220
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
of Dr. Eugene Osty has brought this out most con
vincingly. In the records of the Institut Metapsy-
chique is found, for instance, the case of the lady who
went to a medium and was told that she would marry
a certain man whom she loved, and to which fact the
medium appended a description correct in every de
tail. This man's wife was to die in the near future.
The lady then went to about sixty mediums, who
with the exception of four, told her the same thing.
For ten long years she lived in the hope that this
would come true, then she died from cancer without
the predictions (which she had written in her diary)
having been fulfilled. "All the clairvoyants," says
Dr. Osty, "had only echoed her own thoughts and
hopes!" Osty says that this is very often the case in
regard to marriage predictions.
In another case, a man in dire financial straits, went
to a medium who told him a female relative of his
(properly described) would die soon and leave him
her property. In spite of Dr. Osty's warnings, he
then took up some loans in the expectation of the
inheritance which he never got, so that he was en
tirely ruined.
Both the above furnish examples in which it is very
dangerous to seek "astral" aid, as the medium's powers
are influenced adversely by the condition of anxiety
that saturates the sitter, and oozes out of his every
pore, as it were. The more negative condition of
hopeless dejection does not, in the opinion of the
author—based on numerous experiments— offer such
221
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
a hazardous condition for the proper exercise of the
medium's powers. The same thing takes place in the
wireless world—a perfecty good program can be
drowned out by Morse signals, in fact the jamming
and interfering with radio transmission is a common
experience of all radio engineers. These too, inci
dentally, are etheric phenomena!
As a general rule, an excellent "platform medium"
is apt to be rather poor for private sittings. This
was particularly evident with such mediums as the
late John Slater— probably the world's best platform
clairvoyant— and Arthur Ford, who, in the writer's
judgment, almost if not quite equalled Slater for pub
lic demonstrations. Both these mediums in public
have given amazing proofs of lucidity, especially in
dealing with past events, and in getting complicated
names with perfect accuracy.
Some mediums, such as Chester Grady, are unable
to work in public, having developed their gift for
private use only. It seems to be a matter of aptitude
as well as "spiritual unfoldment." Again, it is most
certain that an over-powering gift of mediumship is
very detrimental to health. Further, the concentra
tion upon one form of mediumship inhibits the func
tion of any other form— at least temporarily. This is
specially the case in which a medium diverts his
power from a physical phase to a mental phase. The
work of several of the famous mediums of the past
bears out this contention.
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
The following is a report of the evidential part of
two sittings the writer had with a college-educated
American medium, Mr. Chester Grady.
Sitting 44—with Chester Grady
This medium preferred to work in the trance state,
but in this— one of the earlier sittings the writer had
with this sensitive— the trance state did not supervene.
Medium: "Heaven knows whether we shall get
anything, but if not, you must come again Tuesday
night— come and have dinner with me at the Club."
After much agitation and considerable difficulty with
his breathing, the medium continued,
"Do you know an 'R'? Yes, you do know an 'R';
he is connected with your Australian life. A doctor
—a neurologist— a most gifted man. He died of brain
trouble— yes, a blood vessel burst—he passed away a
week after the accident. Now I get two more who
died in the same manner, but these two are together;
one, the woman was a physician— the man is her hus
band. I do not want to place these two with the other
as they did not live in the same country— I see a large
A with these two. Perhaps it was Africa, I do not
know whether you have ever lived in Africa, but I
feel like Africa with this matter. In time I shall be
able to clear this up."
Sitter: "I can place these people— all of them."
At the same sitting a host of family matters was
discussed, and practically all of the material was even
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
tually placed. It came through piecemeal which
made it difficult to follow and required much con
centration on the sitter's part.
The other very evidential seance with Chester
Grady was a trance one and the essential points were
as follows:
Sitting 4$—with Chester Grady
Medium: "I wish they would hurry up and take
me out, I hate to work in the normal state— it is so
much easier in trance."
In a few moments Grady keeled over and struck
his head lightly on the radiator. The author raised
the medium's head slightly and placed a cushion
under it.
Medium: "I feel an awful fulness in the chest. Look
what I am doing. I do not know why but I am
bulged here," pointing to area of right nipple, and
ballooning out shirt to indicate a swelling of impor
tance. "There is a small swelling directly underneath
here," indicating a place four or five centimeters
lower down on the thorax. "Over here on the left
I get an exactly similar condition. You must observe
this very closely as I will get the name of the person
who belongs to this condition later. If you have
taken the measurements you want I will let this con
dition go.
"Oh! there is a doctor. She is choking me. She
must have died from suffocation. I see a big letter
224
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
'O.' She must have been a very decided type of
doctor. She is forming my face square. Now she
is trying to make me smoke a pipe. It seems quite
incongruous. Can you make anything of this?"
Sitter: "I should say I could!"
Medium: "Don't tell me; let me get it from the
supernormal source."
Despite many attempts and much irrelevant matter,
no further light was thrown on this particular com
munication, and after nearly three-quarters of an
hour the medium came out of his trance, tousled and
tired.
The author then explained to the medium the na
ture of the person he had described so graphically
without knowing it. The lady was a medical practi
tioner in Australia, who affected masculine garments
and habits, even to pipe-smoking and much swearing.
She was, however, kindness itself (see p. 141). The
pantomime with the shirt was to indicate her identity
without any possible doubt. She was endowed with
two extra mammary glands in the exact position indi
cated by the entranced medium! In life, the author
took the measurement in centimetres between the
centres of the normal and abnormal nipples. The in
troduction of the specific mention of measures was an
undoubted reference to this fact.
The literature of Spiritualism and psychic research
is replete with extraordinary examples of undoubted
cases in which spirit return is the only rational ex
planation. Space forbids us to enlarge on this, but
225
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
in passing it might be recalled that the scholarly Stain-
ton Moses had forty-nine "guides," headed by Imper-
ator, who gave scholarly script by automatic writing.
Then the famous Mrs. Piper's control, George Pel-
ham, was identified by some forty persons over a
period of months. Richet was moved to write, "//
riy a que des explications tres alambiquees pour don-
ner H ces faits une autre interpretation que la survie
de Pelham."
Of more recent date are the no less wonderful
communications by "Patience Worth," whose
methods and literary style are quite unique, and if
they do nothing more, they at least furnish a fitting
rejoinder to those who maintain that nothing is said
or done by "spirits" that is really worth while.
"Patience," unlike the vast majority of communica
tors, steadily avoided giving any personal particulars
about herself.
The Evidence of Errors. It has often been stressed
that we learn through errors, and nowhere is this
more correct than in the department of psychic re
search. The error made by Kate Fox's communicator
(see p. 26) in which he gave the incorrect burial
place, practically establishes the presence of a dis-
carnate influence, because had it been an experience
that came under Osty's Law, the metagnomy (Osty's
word for supernormally gained information) would
have afforded the correct place of interment, and not
the last resting place that the spirit of the murdered
peddler knew anything about.
226
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
An even more convincing proof of spirit interfer
ence and evidential errors is given by a much more
recent occurrence reported in the Ex-Lord Mayor
of Sheffield's book, Au revoir not Goodbye. In this
case the complexity is due to errors of transmission of
the information to the sensitive, caused by the eager
ness of two communicators wishing to transmit at the
same time (see also p. 1
54) .
An entity, Arthur Eame, gave his postal address
when on earth, and said that he was twenty-three
when he died of pneumonia in a local hospital three
years before. He was very anxious to get a message
to his sweetheart (name and address given) . A tele
phone enquiry at the hospital given by the communi
cator, disclosed the fact that three years before, a
man of that name did die of pneumonia, but it was
pointed out that the Christian name was incorrect,
also the age was forty-six. The address of the man
proved equally false.
Nothing daunted, the investigator told the medium
that he would try the sweetheart's alleged place of
abode, and the sensitive then stated that clairaudiently
(perception of supernormal sounds) she kept hearing
the name "Fraser."
On reaching the address given for the sweetheart,
the investigator met with success as the information
proved correct this time. He then asked if Arthur
Eame was known to them. This, however was un
known. When the name Arthur Fraser was substi
tuted, it was at once recognized and much excitement
227
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
ensued. Many corroboative details were quickly dis
closed and checked.
Subsequent enquiry from the clairvoyante elicited
the fact that Fraser was the name of the young man
concerned, but that another man, Eame, had stood
against him at the time of the original communication,
and as soon as the medium received the Christian
name of Fraser, he cut in. He died on the same day
and at the same place.
The books of the hospital finally cleared up the
mystery by showing the following entry:
Arthur FRASER 23 Pneumonia 21-9-20
James Henry EAME 46 Pneumonia 22-9-20
The discrepancy in the date might well be explained,
if one died about midnight and the other a few hours
later.
Many readers will no doubt be anxious to agree
with Dame Edith Lyttelton—the successor of Sir
Oliver Lodge to the presidency of the S.P.R., when
she emphasizes the fact that "many human beings
have mental powers which extend beyond their senses
and their consciousness," and that "no evidence of
the identity of the dead will carry intellectual con
viction of survival because of the immense ramifica
tions of telepathic power which are now recognized
or conjectured."
One would gather from this that the Society of
Psychical Research has a long road to travel, before
they, as a body, come to the mountain peak of cer
228
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
tainty already scaled by the previous president, al
though buried in their Bulletins are the means to at
tainment. Yet, a little later in her presidential ad
dress, Dame Lyttelton voices her own opinion in the
following words:
"In the matter of communication with the dead
I prefer to think that the super-conscious part of a
living mind may establish contact with another plane
of being, rather than that the discarnate spirits visit
the place on which we live, though I should be far
from saying that this never happens." Doubtless all
spiritualists would subscribe to the latter statement.
Estelle Roberts, the famous clairvoyante, says that
spirits do not come to her; she goes to them.
The Personal Touch. The author has previously
stressed the very great importance of the trivial things,
the style of expression, turn of a phrase, as these give
the most striking evidence of personality, and CAN
BY NO MANNER OF MEANS BE MADE PER
FECTLY APPARENT TO AN OUTSIDER.
More than what is actually said, this evidence is likely
to carry conviction to the sitter, making him feel
sure that he has once again met an old friend.
Ingenious Proofs. There have been abundance of
what may be termed ingenious proofs of survival of
intelligence, such as those cases in which a compli
cated form of cross-correspondence is indulged in
between mediums separated by thousands of miles;
part of the message is given through the different sen
sitives, and it has to be assembled before it makes /*
229
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
sense. Again there are instances, such as in the strange
case of the late Mrs. Curran, in which "Patience
Worth" gave two poems at the same time, a line of
one followed by a line of the other, and spelled out
letter by letter with such rapidity that a court reporter
was required to take it down. Then there has been
recently, the production of two parallel messages of
a highly evidential nature, at independent sittings
which apparently took place on two successive days,
one in London and the other in Roumania. (See
Psychic News for February nth, 1933.)
As a final example of cross-correspondence we
might cite the case in which "Margery" in Boston,
Harcourt in Rochester, and Valiantine in New York
produced between them, portions of drawings and
text that made a perfect whole when assembled to
gether with a rather humourous advertisement for a
popular brand of cigarette.
There seems to be little doubt that as Professor
Bozzano puts
it,
"we may expect many of these evi
dences, perfected and multiplied without cessation till
the cumulative proof becomes crushing by which men
will reach the certitude of the existence and survival
of the soul." See Animism and Spiritism by Profes
sor Ernest Bozzano (Translated by Stanley de Brath) .
Pragmatic Cryptesthesia. This
is
the strange ter
minology used by Richet to describe the familiar
manifestation universally known as "psychometry."
Even Richet in casting aspersions on the term realizes
that the spiritualists can fairly claim to have "Ancient
230
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
Lights" on this word, which in its scientific trappings
means "a hidden sensibility to a material object."
Psychometry is a very widespread and very ancient
method of lucidity; Mrs. Adele Halman, a well-
known San Francisco exponent of the art— a highly
educated lady—says that when she takes in her left
hand an article belonging to a person, she more often
than not experiences the actual sensations of that per
son— i.e. she feels emotionally and mentally like the
personality evoked by the contact. With Mrs. Hal-
man, it makes no difference whether the person con
nected with the article psychometrized is living or
dead. It is a clear case, as Rene Sudre would say, of
"prosopo-poiesis cum metagnomy" (!). In other
words, she obtains knowledge by supernormal means
through the "assumption of a mask." Very extraor
dinary evidence of survival has been afforded by
psychometry.
A case almost on the same order as the original Fox
affair (p. 25) was elucidated by psychometric means
not long ago by one of Dr. Osty's group of sensi
tives— Mme. Morel.
In France the disappearance and death of an old
man named Lerasle, aged eighty-two, had baffled the
police and the troups, but the neckerchief taken from
the wardrobe of the victim unfolded— by psychom
etry—the whole story in detail. This was subse
quently verified by the authorities and found abso
lutely correct— except that the body position was flat
on the back, not "lying on its right side with one leg
231
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
bent under it" as given by the medium. There can
be little doubt that the erroneous pictograph obtained
by the clairvoyante was in reality the last perceived
by the deceased as his last remembrance when he had
lain down on his right side and passed from sleep
to death.
In order that the reader may see the additional
scope of psychometry over and above common lu
cidity, an account of the famous Melbourne case,
which is even more remarkable than the preceding
one, is given below.
The two sons of an Australian banker were lost at
sea during a cruise off the Melbourne coast, and the
parents called in George Spriggs who arrived at about
eight o'clock the following morning.
The medium took the hand of the banker's wife,
and soon fell into a trance. He then stated that he
found great depression relative to the sea. The
banker then interposed,
"Do you see a wreck?" to which the entranced
medium replied,
"I cannot see whether they are in the spirit world,
but if you will give me some object which belonged
to them to direct me, I may be able to find them."
He was handed a pocket book, and the medium
thereupon gave a detailed description of the cruise
up to the time of the wreck, all of which was sub
sequently confirmed. One of the boys manifested
by the mouth of the sensitive and furnished details
of the disaster, stating among other things that the
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
body of his brother had been MUTILATED BY A
SHARK! This horrible fact was corroborated in an
extraordinary manner, for a shark was captured, in
the belly of which were found THE ARM AND
PART OF THE BOY'S WAISTCOAT! His
watch had stopped at 9 p. m., the hour which had
been indicated by the medium as the time of the
tragedy.
The reader will please note that the hypothesis that
the relatives or friends of deceased persons transmit
telepathically all the events of life which remain fixed
in their subconscious minds, whence mediums draw
them and furnish the illusion of communication with
the dead, is quite untenable, since in the Melbourne
case, a contact with the hand of the boys' mother
was unproductive. During the recent Australian
tour of the lecturer-medium Arthur Ford, at a pub
lic meeting in a suburb of Melbourne, an elderly
weather-beaten man arose from the audience at the
conclusion of Mr. Ford's lecture—in which a descrip
tion of the above case was included— and electrified
the assembly by stating that it was he who cut open
the belly of the shark in question!
Clairvoyance and Healing Powers. The reader is
probably aware of the more or less extravagant claims
made for "spiritual" healing of various sorts; and in
this book the author cannot go into details, but will
limit himself to a mere notice of the FACT of heal
ing through supernormal channels. Many clair-
voyantes such as Mile. Laplace of Paris specialize in
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
this phase of sensitivity. The author has had nu
merous sittings with Mile. Laplace, both before and
after she became associated with the Faculty of Medi
cine, and can verify the fact of her diagnostic ability
in supernormal directions. This was more evident
prior to her medical studies. A Sydney doctor, who
was similarly gifted, noticed that his powers were not
so great after training as a physician. It would seem,
therefore, that sophistication does not aid the develop
ment of these natural powers—probably latent in all
individuals.
Mediums who diagnose claim to do so in three
ways: ( i ) by virtue of their own innate "magnetism"
aided by discarnate power in the abstract, sometimes
referred to as 'cosmic" power; (2) under the "con
trol" of a dead doctor, who although he no longer
subscribes to the medical journals, still keeps up his in
terest in medicine. The famous Australian healer and
diagnostician, Annie Foster Turner, was an example
of this kind. Finally, (3) the "control" or inspira
tional contact with a "Red Indian healing guide." In
any case, results are recorded that are little short of
miraculous— although we ought to regard every heal
ing as a miracle. Competent physicians and physiol
ogists, such as Dr. Osty, Professor Richet, Dr. Alexis
Carel, etc., have chronicled many cases in which diag
nosis or healing took place that was distinctly at vari
ance with any that could be obtained by normal
methods. In a subsequent volume the author hopes to
have the privilege of giving the results of his investi
*34
UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
gations of supernormal healing, and of correlating it
to medical practice as usually understood, but with
special emphasis on that newer department of psycho
logical therapeutics, which appears to be the grand
new healing source of modern times.
235
Chapter XIV
CONCLUSION
BEFORE KNOWLEDGE can achieve the dignity
of science, it must have an admitted basis of cause and
effect. This can result only from prolonged and
connected experimentation, in which every possible
source of error is corrected, until there has been ac
cumulated such a mass of fully documentated ma
terial that a generalization may be put forward.
The years of work by Crookes, Lodge, Schrenck-
Notzing, Richet, Geley, Osty, Stanley de Brath, and
many other men of giant intellect, and equally savant
investigators have furnished us with real scientific
knowledge; and each succeeding properly controlled
experiment adds to the store.
Despite the unwarranted assertion of Mr. Hannen
Swaffer, men of science ARE wanted in psychic af
fairs. Science is the only prophet who has a voice
authoritative enough to convince the general public
of the fact that death does not end all; that although
"John Brown's body lies a-mouldering in the grave,
His Soul goes marching on!" And the division it
marches in is determined by its life here on earth.
After all, there is really little perturbing about these
CONCLUSION
new facts presented by psychic research. We are
doubtless just as much "spirits" now as we shall ever
be. All the facts unearthed by psychic researchers
go to show that we incarnates, have at least some of
the powers possessed by the alleged "discarnates."
When faced with the facts, even an arch-animist
like Rene Sudre has to admit that the "memory of a
a dead person survives," and he supports his admis
sion by a quotation from Henri Bergson—equally dis
turbing to the gross materialist— "Thought is not a
function of the brain which is but the point of inser
tion of spirit into matter.
"The spirit outranges the brain everywhere.
Everything happens as though the body were simply
utilized by the spirit."
Sudre then concludes that the only life that we
can allow these "memories that survive" is an uncon
scious and somnambulic life in which the automatism
of memory reigns alone. In order that they may live
again with a very incomplete life which counterfeits
our own, the subject (medium) must lend them some
thing of his body and perhaps of his mind." This is
stupefying in its inadequacy.
Another strenuous disbeliever in the so-called
"spirit-hypothesis" is the capable and astute Dr.
W. F. Prince, who was so struck by the extraordinary
case of Patience Worth (see p. 230) and the indi
viduality it disclosed that he was moved to print in
large capitals in his book, The Case of Patience
Worth, "EITHER OUR CONCEPT OF WHAT
237
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
WE CALL THE SUBCONSCIOUS MUST BE
RADICALLY ALTERED, SO AS TO INCLUDE
POTENCIES OF WHICH WE HITHERTO
HAVE HAD NO KNOWLEDGE, OR ELSE
SOME CAUSE OPERATING THROUGH BUT
NOT ORIGINATING IN THE SUBCON
SCIOUSNESS OF MRS. CURRAN (The Medium)
MUST BE ACKNOWLEDGED."
All conscientious investigations show that the mat
ter is far from simple, and that the alleged personali
ties that speak or write through a medium possess, to
some extent undoubted traces of the medium through
which the communications come. Grammatical slips
characteristic of Mrs. Piper recurred in the discourses
of her controls, and Helen Smith (Elise Muller) , the
heroine of Professor Flournoy's book From India to
the Planet Mars, claimed to have visted Mars and
learned the Martian language. Miss Smith lived in
Geneva, and it was apparent that the soi-disant Mar
tian was heavily tinctured with French idioms. When
Professor Flournoy pointed this out to the medium
a new version was produced that had no discoverable
grammar or syntax of any sort!
Richet, commenting on this fact, says that he be
lieves that the phenomenon is simply a product of a
marvellous intelligence exclusively human. "That
Helen Smith built up a Martian language is a fairy
tale! I shall not change my opinion of this except an
authentic document arrives to us from the planet
Mars to confirm the phantasies of Helen."
238
CONCLUSION
Richet also finds great difficulty in accepting Mrs.
Piper's control "Phinuit," a French doctor who prac
ticed in Metz, and who had forgotten every word of
French because he had lived in the English quarter.
The author pointed out in reference to this case that
his French dentist holds a D.D.S. from the Univer
sity of Pennsylvania (1909), yet cannot utter one
word of English now, and he is still in the flesh, and
lives less than a mile from the Berlitz School of Lan
guages, but does not enter it!
As a general rule, it may be postulated that since
it is the brain of the medium that is a constituent
factor, that which emerges will reflect the physical
memory or mental idiosyncrasies of the medium to a
greater or lesser degree. And the emotional charac
teristics of the medium being, again, allied to the
physical, are most liable to be reflected by sympa
thetic mental action.
These desiderata will render the expression of the
communicator's mind somewhat clouded or distorted,
but it will be, none the less, a psychic personality,
garbed in a mantle of thought derived from the cere
bral organism of the living. Chronaxic and psycho
analytic procedures have been employed for distin
guishing the medium's personality from those of his
controls.
Scientific proof rests mainly upon the validity of
the "message" which purports to come from the
"spiritual world," and whether or not such is the
source, constitutes the crux of Spiritualism. Faced
239
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
with a vast unknown, it is impossible to formulate a
conclusive reply, but it is clearly our duty to con
tinue our researches with an open mind, and without
preconceived ideas. Perhaps in time we shall end by
discovering the "X-Theory" of the future that will
be universally accepted. All that the author has at
tempted to do, is to present the facts, both from his
own experience and from the experience of others,
in such a way that the reader, who is totally unac
quainted with Spiritualism or psychic research, may
with the niinimum of effort receive the maximum of
clarification upon such a highly complex and con
troversial subject. Needless to say the reader is not
expected to follow the author in his conclusions, and
it is to be hoped that any errors that have crept in
are by way of intrepretation, not of fact.
In the matter of synthesis of the phenomenology
the author owes much to the late Professor Charles
Richet and to the late Mr. Stanley de Brath. Both
these gentlemen have contributed so much to the ad
vancement of our metapsychic knowledge that only
posterity will be able adequately to appreciate their
work.
The neophyte must, after all, consider the possi
bility at least, of Shakespeare being wrong when he
spoke of that strange undiscovered country from
whose bourne no traveler returns; and in any case
all of us can lament with Greenleaf Whittier, when
he wrote:
240
CONCLUSION
"Alas for him who never sees
The stars shine through his cypress trees!
Who, hopeless, lays his dead away,
Nor looks to see the breaking day
Across the mournful marbles play!
iWho hath not learned, in hours of faith,
The truth to flesh and sense unknown,
That life is ever Lord of Death,
And Love can never lose its own!"
241
t
Appendix I
SOME USEFUL PSYCHICAL REFERENCES
IN THE BIBLE
MATERIALIZATION
Gen. 3
: 8
18:1-17
32:24
Exod. 24: 10
Josh. 5:13
Ezek. 8:3
Dan. 3:25; 5:5
Luke 24: 15, 30
SEMI-MATERIALIZATION
Job 4: 12-16
SPIRIT WRITING
II Chron. 21:12
Dan. 5 :
5
INDEPENDENT SPIRIT WRITING
Exod. 24: 12; 31:18; 32: 15
Deut. 5:22
Dan. 5 :
5
AUTOMATIC WRITING
I Chron. 28: 1 1, 19
II Chron. 21:12
243
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
TRUMPET
Exod. 19: 13, 16, 19; 20: 18
Rev. 1:10
TONGUES
Acts 2:3
I Cor. 14: 18
TRANCE
Gen. 15:12
Num. 24:4
I Sam 10:6, 10
Job 42:3
Ezek. 2 : 2
Dan. 8:18
Acts 9:3-9; 10: 10; 22: 17
HEALING (Old Testament)
Num. 21:8
I Kings 17: 17-24
II Kings 4:32-37; 5:1-14
HEALING (New Testament)
Matt. 8: 13
Luke 14:2
John 4:47-54
DISCIPLES CHARGED TO HEAL
Matt. 10:8
Luke 9:2; 10:9, 17-20
DISCIPLES HEAL
Acts 3:1-8; 9: 17; 14:8-10
244
APPENDIX I
GIFTS OF HEALING
I Cor. 12:9, 28
HEALING BY MAGNETIC ARTS
II Kings 4:29
Acts 19: 1 1
INDEPENDENT SPIRIT VOICES
Gen. 21:17; 22: 1 1
I Sam. 3:2-9
I Kings 19:5-13
Ezek. 1:28; 3:4
Matt. 17:5
John 12:28-30
Acts 7:31
LEVITATION
I Kings 18: 12
II Kings 2: 1 1; 6:5
Ezek. 3:12; 8:3; 1 1:1
Acts 5: 19; 8:39
APPORTS
II Chron. 21:12
Ezek. 2:9-10
SPIRIT TESTS (PHYSICAL PHENOMENA)
Gen. 24: 14-19
Judg. 6:36-40
I Sam 10:9-17
Ezek. 4: 1-1 7; 8:3
Acts 4: 3 1
245
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
SPIRIT POWER
Judg. 15:14
SPIRIT LIGHTS
Gen. 15: 17
Exod. 3:2; 34:29
Acts 9: 3
SPIRIT GUIDANCE
Acts 16:7
SPIRIT COMMUNICATION IN DREAMS
Gen. 28:12; 31:24; 37:5-1 1; 41 (all)
Job 33: 15
Joel 2:28; repeated in Acts 2:17
Matt. 2:13; 27: 19
CLAIRVOYANCE
II Kings 6: 12-17
I Sam. 9: 1 1-20
Ezek. 8:11; 1 1:1
CLAIRAUDIENCE
I Sam. 3:4-21
PSYCHOMETRY
John 4: 16-19 (From Vessel)
DIVINATION
Gen. 44: 1
5
Dan. 2:47
SEANCES REPORTED
II Kings 6:32
I Sam. 28
246
APPENDIX I
INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKING
Isa. 1:4
Mark 13:11
Acts 2:4
NAMES OF CONTROLS ASKED FOR
Gen. 32:29
Judg. 13:17
Job 26:4
Mark 5:9
MUSIC
I Sam. 16:23
II Kings 3:15
PROMISE OF CONTINUANCE OF SPIRIT
POWER
Joel 2:28
Acts 2
N.B. This list does not pretend to be exhaustive but it
will aid persons to gather very choice illustra
tive material from the Scriptures.
M7
Appendix II
The following syllabus of study will indicate that
universities and other institutions of learning are now
recognizing the subject of psychical research as part
of the academic curriculum.
The Leland Stanford Junior University of Cali
fornia was one of the first to have a Chair of Psychical
Research, although the method of approach at this
university is (in the author's opinion) such that all
enquiry is at once sterilized.
The course of lectures outlined below is that given
at the University of Belgrade. Meetings are held
twice a week in the House of Russian Culture. Each
week, there are two lectures on theoretical subjects,
and once a week one lecture on practical experimental
work, with a sitting.
(A) THEORETICAL COURSE
1. philosophy (8 hours).
Introduction to Theoretical Philosophy.
Introduction to Practical Philosophy.
2. PSYCHOLOGY (l2 hours).
Psycho-analysis General Psychology
Psycho-pathology Psycho-physiology
3. esoteric teachings: religion and spiritualism
(8 hours).
India Egypt Spiritualism Anthroposophy
Thibet Greece Theosophy Christianity
248
APPENDIX II
4.
physiology (5 hours).
Endocrine Glands. Animal Electricity.
Nervous System. Metabolism.
5.
chemistry (4 hours).
Chemistry and Psychical Research.
6. physics (8 hours).
Sound and Light. Micro-physics.
Radio-Activity. Electricity.
7. PRINCIPLES OF CLASSIFICATION OF METAPSYCHICAL
PHENOMENA (5 hours).
Metapsychical Phenomena.
Their Classification and Comparison.
(B) PRACTICAL COURSE
1. CONDITIONS NECESSARY FOR PSYCHICAL EXPERI
MENTS (3 hours).
(a) Outer Physical Conditions.
Laboratory and Installations.
(b) Inner Conditions.
Mediums.
Psychological conditions necessary for me
dium and experimentor.
2. HYGIENE OF MEDIUM AND EXPERIMENTOR (5
hours) .
Hygienic conditions for the medium:
(a) before a sitting; (b) during same; (c) after
a sitting.
f
249
A CAVALCADE OF THE SUPERNATURAL
Hygienic conditions for various types of me-
diumship.
Experimentors and their hygiene.
3. GENERAL PROCEDURE AND TECHNIQUE OF EXPERI
MENTS (6 hours) .
Types of Control Apparatus:
(a) Physical; (b) Chemical; (c) or other Con
trols.
Psycho-technique. Study and Control of Notes
and Records.
Registering Apparatus.
4. HOW TO RECOGNIZE MEDIUMISTIC FACULTIES (6
hours) .
Mediumship and its various aspects.
Psychological Characteristics of the Mediums.
Anatomical and Physiological Characteristics of
same.
Various Methods of Recognition of their faculties.
METAPSYCHICAL PHYSIOLOGY-THE
AURA AND ITS STUDY
5. DEVELOPMENT OF PSYCHIC FACULTIES (7 hours).
Conditions necessary for development.
Best way of development for mediums of various
types.
Control of the development.
Regular Trance and Pathological cases.
250
GENERAL INDEX
(Italicized references are books)
A
Accidents, 43
American Society of Psychical
Research, 145, 163, 185
Ancient Chinese through trum
pet, 187
Angels, 24
Animism and Spiritism, 230
Apports, 69; explanation of, 74;
source located, 71
Atom, 20, 84
Au Revoir not Goodbye, 227
Author's position, 14
Automatic writing, 51, 174
B
Baby's foot-print, 123
Bathysphere, 87
Berlitz school of languages, 239
Bertillon system, 96
Bible and supernormal, 24
Biblical position, 23
Bilberries, 93, 125
Book pages, correctly given, 218
Brain, 23; as source of ectoplasm,
64
Breezes, 153
British Association, 197
British College of Psychic Sci
ence, 156
C
Cages for mediums, 112
California Psychic Research So
ciety, 78
Callan Park, 83
The Case of Patience Worth, 237
"Censigol Gas," 126
Chemical dedection methods, 110
Chemistry experiment, 72
Cholesterin, m
Clairvoyance in California, 202
Clairvoyance, emotion mitigates,
221; impromptu, 219; nature of,
199; shark case, 232; clairvoy
ance and materialization, 178
Clairvoyance and Materialization,
85
Component elements, 20
Conclusions, 236
Conditions, 154; importance of,
145
Confusion of names, 209
Cool breezes, 143
Crawford's lever experiments, 60
Creation, plan of, 20
Cross' chalk experiment, 61
Cross-correspondence, 229, 230
Crucifixion, 24
Cryptesthesia, 38
D
Dark seances, 140, 142
Death even, the, 136
Dental Floss, 100
Dialectical Society of London 27
Direct photography, 152
Direct voice, 133
Direct writing, 61, 172
Discarnate intelligence, 17, 115,
124, 161, 181, 192
251
GENERAL INDEX
Domestic spiritualism, 42
Dowsers, 32, 36, 38; blindfolding
of. .39
Dowsing, 31; Australian tests of,
32; for gold, 33; for oil, 34; for
water, 31, 32, 34; instruments,
discussion of, 39; verification in
Rome, 40
Duke University, 198
E
Eame-Fraser case, 227
Ectoplasm, 47, 63, 92, 94, 103;
biology of, 114; characteristics
of, 61; conclusions, 138; chemi
cal description, 120; engineer's
viewpoint, 126; given to sitters,
128; interference with danger
ous to medium, 127; light, in
fluence of, 125; liquid residue
from, 125; method of produc
tion, 135; minutiae of, 119;
mouldings of, 120; nature of,
95; occult explanation, 126;
recipe for, 125; source of, 95,
119; use in spirit photography,
153; staining methods, 95; sug
gestibility of, 117; types of, in,
113; unusual constructions in,
128
Eidetic imagery, 117
Electric balance, 96
Electric conduction of ectoplasm,
64
Electric flashlight apparatus, 94
Electron, 20, 21
Electroscope discharged by ecto
plasm, 64, 66
Emotion, 18
Etherialization, 135
Evidence of errors, 226
Experiments that fail importance
of. 74
Experiments in psychic science, 56
Extras, 153, 158
r
Ferry policeman, the, 211
Fraud, 27, 98; unconscious, 43
French Academy of Sciences, 67
French motorcyclist, 210
Filosel silk, 100
Fire-fly, 85
Findings of scientists, 196
From India to the Planet Mars,
238
G
"Gate of Distance," the, 199
Glow-worms, 85
Gould's Medical Dictionary, 92
Greek Society for Psychic Re
search, 66
Greek writing, 121, 169, 173
H
Haunted houses, 140
Healing powers, 233
Health of psychics, 137
Hidden alphabet, 48
Hydesville rappings, 25
Hydrostatic methods, 118
Hypnotism, 46; use in psychic
experimentation, 101; con
trasted with Spiritualism, 47
/
Ideoplasticity, 115
Illumination needed for psychic
experiments, 102
Imperial Dry Plate Company, 156
Impromptu clairvoyance, 219
Incarnate spirit, 124
Independent writing (see direct
writing)
Indian rope trick, 118
Indian "guides," 134, 141
Infra-red, occlusion of, 64
Ingenious proofs, 229
252
GENERAL INDEX
Interpretation of facts, 16
International Metaphysic Institute
of Paris, 86, 93, 98, 106, ill,
121, 198, 221
Interpenetration of human tissues,
82; of matter, 81
Ionization of air at seances, 76, 89
K
Kenneth-Cummings group, 83
Kerr wax, 123
Kisses, psychic, 122
L
La Grande Esperance, 43, m, 127,
148
Lamp experiment of Author, 67
La Vie et la Lumiere, 86
Levitation, 57, 58; Author's, 57,
58; compared with magnetic
flux, 60; Home and piano, 59
"Light," journal, 29
"Little Georgia Magnet," 65
Loaves and Fishes, modern style,
78
Luminous effects, 85
Luminous paint, 102
M
Magnetic and Electro-static ex
periments, 66
Magnetic Flux, compared with
levitation, 60
Magnetic Marvels, 67
"Magnetism," 31, 44, 130
Maori evidence, 206
Marriages, 221
Marsh's test, 72
Martian language, 238
Materialization, 92; bones col
lapsing, 133; of Katie King, 28;
in miniature, 116; modern, pe
culiarities of, 108; popular ex
hibitions of, 129; rareity of,
137; slap from, 133; of twins,
132; unusual ones, 128
Materialized hand, 144
Matter, 20
Matter and energy, relation be
tween, 21
Medical book case, 213
Medium's "battery," 100
Medium in Bible, 23
Medium, danger to, 127; defini
tion of, 137; health of, 137
Mediumistic trance, 46
Mediumship, popular explanation
of, 139; rational explanation of,
"5
Memoirs of the Months, 41
Mesmeric emanations, 61
Metagnomy, 198, 226
Metapsychic, explanation of, 13
Metapsychic of Paris, 58 (see In
ternational Metapsychic Inst.)
Metapsychics, 30, 41
Methods of controlling mediums,
99
Micro-ammeter, use in dowsing,
40
Miniature materializations, 116
Mind, the master power, 14
Mind reading, 205
Moral perverseness, 185
Morse signals, 222
Multiple personality, 46
Multiplication of food, 77; con
trol by dye marks, 80
Murdered peddler, 26
Mystery of Edwin Drood, 175
N
Native clairvoyance, 200
Nobel prize, 17, 109
New York Times, 70
New Testament outlook, 24
253
GENERAL INDEX
O
Occultism, 14
Occult journals, 28
Osty's law, 198, 226
Ouija board, 50
P
Paraffin-wax bath, 95, 112
Parapsychology, 119
Pasteur Institute, 86
Peddler, murdered, 26
Perfume, 134
Personal survival, 16
Personal touch, 229
Phenomena in full light, 78, 147,
(see multiplication of food);
popular experiments with, 1 39
Photogenic microbes, 86, 88, 94
Photographic seances, 83, 142
Planchette, 50
Plaster casts, 122
Poltergeists, 140
Pragmatic cryptesthesia, 230
Prediction, 213, 219
Pre-natal experiment, 123
Prevision, 219; perfect case by
Mrs. Foley, 213
Primitive man, at seance, 128
Problem of the future, 16
"Prosopo-poiesis cum metag-
nomy," 231
Proton, 21
Psychic Adventures in New
York, 185
Psychical research, 22
Psychical Research, Science and
Religion, 160
Psychic epochs, 25
Psychic lasses, 122
Psychic News, journal, 29, 230
Psychic science, 18
Psychic Structures at the Goli-
gher Circle, 56
"Psychography," 162
Psychology, 13
Psychometry, 230
Q
Quantum, 20
Question of fraud, 98
R
Radio communication, 21
Radiogram, 216
Raps, 53
Raymond, 44
Reality of psychic phenomena, 56
Red Indian "guides," 141, 157;
maids, 76
Relativity, 20
Religion, purposes of, 18
Reminiscences, 112
Repulsion of objects, 68
Research, difficulty of, 20
Researches in Spiritualism, 88
Return of "Katie King," 104
Royal Photographic Society, 41,
160
S
Savant's seance, 93
Science, lack of permanence, 22;
present position of, 19; prophets
of, 19; purpose of, 18
Science, psychic, 18
Scientific circles, 93
Scientific position, present, 21
Scientific proof, 239
Seance, ancient, 102; in Bible, 23;
breezes at, 75; dark, 83, 142;
furnishings, 101; illumination of,
102; ionization of air at, 76, 89;
with negative result, 194; per
fume at, 76; termination signal,
7*
Shadowland, 70
Skotography, 156, 160
2 54
GENERAL INDEX
Slate writing, 162; chemical and
physical tests of, 164; counter
feit, 162; how done
Society for Psychical Research,
29, 228
'Spirit' carrying medium, 63
Spirit gate-crashers, 159
Spirit lights, 85, 88, 89; at Tahiti,
?o.
Spirit messages, 195
Spirit photography, 150; direct,
152; extras, 153, 158; famous
mediums, 154; films required,
154; ingenious explanation, 158;
society for study of, 155; spe
cial lens, use of, 154; theories
of, 159
'Spirit' kisses, 122; slap, 178; touch,
141, 146
Spirits that visited with each
other, 193
Spiritualism's classic case, 26
Spiritualism, the crux of, 239
Spiritualist, chief weapon against,
Spiritualists National Union, 29
Spiritualistic hypothesis, 14
Stanford University, 18
Stigmata, 149
Subconscious mind, 17, 45, 207
Suggestion, 145
Supernormal photography, 156
Survival, 16
Survival of Man, the, 50
T
Table turning, 42; obscure
phenomena, 47; type of motion,
45
Tahiti, spirit lights at, 90
Telekinesis, 40, 42, 56, 171; bio
logical examples of, 65; me
chanics of, 9, 59; verification by
ultra-violet and infra-red radia
tion, 64
Telepathy, 190, 205; origin of
word, 29; ruled out, 14;
Teleplasm, 92
Television, 21
Thirty Years of Psychical Re
search, 73
Thumb-prints, 123; Sir Oliver
Lodges, 123
Time factor, the, 208
Trance, 224
Transcendental law, 30; mind,
196; physics, 66
Transfiguration of Our Lord, 24
Trans-oceanic telephony, 21
Treasure hunts, 174
Trumpet mediumship, 176; air
pressure apparatus for, 180; con
trol of, 177; extraordinary com
plications in, 180; famous
mediums of, 185, 192, 193; living
grand-parents communicate,
183; living mother communi
cates by, 180; relation to vocal
chords of medium, 179; schol
arly views on, 190; shade of
Confucius, 187; types of ap
paratus required, 176
Trumpets, 130
V
Ultimate particle, 20
Unconscious fraud, 43
Under-sea lights, 86
Unitarians, 22
Unpredictability, 19
Universal evidence, 195
Universe, higher vibration of, 22
University of Leipsig, 28; Paris, 17
V
Veil Lifted, the, 158
Veil, microphotograph of ecto-
plasmic, 107
Vital force, 40
255
GENERAL INDEX
W
Water-divining (see dowsing)
Wax moulds, 113, 122
Western Union, 217
Witch-doctor, 200
Witch of Endor, 23
Wooden cross, luminous, 89
Wrist-watch, interference from,
130
X
X-rays, 28, 109, 155; in food
multiplication
Xenoglossy, 169, 182; Author's
case, 192
X-theory, 240
256
INDEX OF NAMES IN TEXT
(Names quoted are said to be "spirits")
Abbott, Annie, 65
Adam, 24
Aldrich, Harry, 192
Aymar, Jaques, 38
B
Barlow, Fred, 155
Boursnell, Robert, 154
Baptist, John the, 24
Barrett, Sir William, 29, 34
Bell, John C, 25
Beraud, Marthe, 100
Bernard, Claude, 18
Blyton, T., 106
Beebe, William, 87
Besterman, Theodore, 34
Bisson, Mme, 116
Bozzano, Ernesto, 74, 116, 121, 147
Bugik, 58
Cannon, Mrs. William, 168, 185
Carruth, William H., 138
Cleio, Miss, 66
Clerk-Maxwell, 118
Cook, Florence, 15, 28, 100, 101,
103
Conrad, Joseph, 14
Cotrin, Angelique, 68
Crandon, Dr., 81, 123, 180
Crawford, W.
J.,
56, 59,
63
Crookes, Sir William, 15, 28, 49,
56, 59, 88, 103 109
Curie, Mme., 89
Curran, Mrs., 230, 238
Darling, Hope, 130, 177
Darwin, Charles, 19
D'Arsonval, Prof., 18, 89, ioi, 125
D'Almiri, Signor, 122
De Brath, Stanley, 17, 98, 146, 160,
240
De Cros, Durand, 115
D'Esperance, Mme., 70, ill, 127
Denison, Napier, 37
Denton, 112
Dickens, Charles, 175
Doyle, Sir Arthur Conan, 137
"Dracu," 149
Driesch, Hans, 28, 194
Dubois, Prof., 86
Duguid, David, 157
Eddington, Prof., 196
Eglinton, William, 140, 162
Eldred, F. H., 168
Elias, 24
Elijah, 24
Emerson, Ralph Waldo, 17
Eva, "C," 100, 102, 108, 113, 116,
134
Evans, Fred 162
Flammarion, Camille, 127
Frankenstein, 14
Father Divine 69, 80
257
INDEX OF Ni ,1ES IN TEXT
Flournoy, Prof., 238
Foley, Margaret, 207, 210, 215, 219
Ford, Arthur, 233
Fox, Kate, 226
Fox, John D., 26
Fox Sisters, 26
Fournier, Gaston, 48
Fritz-Grunewald, 126
a
Garland, Hamlin, 22
Geley, Gustave, 85, 100, no, 113,
128, 137, 153 178
Glendining, Mr., 158
Grady, Chester, 223
Gurney, Edmund, 29
Guzik, 128
H
Haley, Dr. Philip S., 77
Halman, Adele, 231
Hamilton, Dr. Glen T., 104
Harben, Sir Henry, 37
Harcourt, 230
"Harding, Mr.," 131, 134
Herschel, Sir John, 64
Home, Daniel Dunglass, 56, 88
Hope, William, 154
Huxley, Thomas, 19
7
Jeans, Sir James, 30, 197, 199
Jesus, 19, 24
Johnson, Violet Olive, 53
Jordan, David Starr, 18
K
Keith, Sir Arthur, 197
"King, John," 127
"King, Katie," 28, 101, 104
Kluski, Franek, 67, 113, 128, 146
L
Laplace, Mile., 233
Legge, 189
Lodge, Brodie, 57
Lodge, Sir Oliver
J.,
15, 16, 44, 50,
65, 123, 151
Lyttelton Dame, Edith, 228
At
Malachi, 23
Marconi, Signor, 96
Margery, 81, 118, 123, 230
Maxwell, Right Hon. Sir Herbert,
41
McCabe, Joseph, 160
McDougall, Prof., 45
Meyers, F. W. H., 147
Monaro, Anna, 90
Morel, Mme., 231
Morton, Miss, 148
Moses, 24
Moses, Stainton, 226
Mulins, John, 36, 41
N
"Nepenthes," 121
Noel, Gen., 134
Norman, 58, 59, Si, 179
O
Ossowietzky, 200
Osty, Dr. Eugene, 27 58, 64, 114,
118, 198, 208, 221
P
Pallidino, Eusapia, 89, 127
Paul, 19, 23, 30
"Pelham, George," 226
"Phinuit," 239
Piccard, Prof.,
87
Piper, Mrs., 226, 238, 239
Poller, Prof., 121
258
INDEX OF NAMES IN TEXT
Poole, Mrs., 116
Potocki, Jules, 146
Price, Harry, 125, 149, 155
Prince, Dr. W. F., 237
R
Rhine, Prof. J. B., 198
Richardson, Mary, 66
Richet, Prof. Charles, 16, 28, 38,
39, 43, 48, 53, 61, 69, 73, 98, 109,
141, 143, 147, 198, 230, 238, 240
Roberts, Estelle, 200, 229
Rontgen, Conrad, 28
"Rosebud," 134
Rutherford, Lord, 21
S
Samuel, 24
Saul, 24
Schnieder, Rudi, 64
von Schrenz-Notzing, 92, 118, 126
Shakespeare, 240
Sidgwick, Henry, 29
Slade, 66
Slater, John, 222
Smedley, Alfred, 111
Smith, Helen, 238
"Socrates," 169
"Spurgeon," Charles Haddon, 116
Spriggs, George, 232
Stone, 24
Sudre, Rene, 231, 237
Swaffer, Hannen, 236
T
Tennyson, Alfred Lord, 29
V
Valiantine, George, 185, 194, 230
W
Wachtmeister, Countess, 63
"Walter," 123
Weekman, 26
White, Cyril, 157
White, Steward Edward, 168
Whittier, John Greenleaf, 240
Whymant, Dr. Neville, 185
Williamson Brothers, 87
Wood, Mrs., 112
Woolley, S. W., 156
"Worth, Patience," 226, 230
Wriedt, Etta, Mrs., 193
Y
"Yolande," 128
Z
Zollner, Prof., 66
Zugun, Eleonore, 149
259
