{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__bell___mankind_united____pioneers_edition.pdf","mytitle":"Mankind United","mylang":"de"}
MANKIND UNITED
A CHALLENGE
TO
“ M AD AM BITION ”
AN D
“THE MONEY CHANGERS”
ACCOMPANIED
BY
A N IN VITATIO N
TO THE W O RLD ’S “SANE” MEN AN D W OMEN
PUBLISHED
BY
THE INTERNATIONAL REGISTRATION BUREAU
(PACIFIC COAST DIVISION OF NORTH AMERICA)
Property of
Received. 194. . . .
M A N K I N D U N I T E D
COPYRIGHT
IN
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
— 1 9 3 9 —
BY
THE INTERNATIONAL REGISTRATION BUREAU
(PACIFIC COAST DIVISION OF NORTH AMERICA)
(Original subject matter copyrighted in 1934)
The Property Right of The International Registration Bureau
in this work is acknowledged in Canada and in the countries sub­
scribing to and adhering to the Berne Convention creating an Inter­
national Union for the protection of Literary works, as Revised,
and the Property Right in this work is reserved under all Conven­
tions and Treaties in force.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, IN ALL COUNTRIES", IN­
CLUDING THE RIGHT OF TRANSLATION INTO THE
SCANDINAVIAN LANGUAGES AND INTO ALL OTHER
LANGUAGES.
The 20.000 Pioneers'
"Cornerstone" (7th) Edition
Totaling "Exactly" 20,000 numbered copies
(Printed in the United States of America)
THEREFORE ALL THINGS
W HATSOEVER YE W OU LD T H A T
MEN SHOULD DO T O YOU, DO
YE EVEN SO TO THEM.
— Matthew 7:12.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
I. OUR EARLY HISTORY AN D SIXTY SUCCESSFUL YEARS OF
SECRET SERVICE_________________________________________________ 1
II. THE W ORLD'S HIDDEN RULERS___ _________________ 29
III. THE INTERNATIONAL LEGION OF VIGILANTES AND THE
LEADERSHIP OF ETERNAL RIGHT IDEAS_______________________ 51
IV. UNIVERSAL SECURITY, PEACE AN D HAPPINESS VERSUS
POVERTY, FEAR AND WAR________________________________________ 67
V . THE GOLDEN RULE OR THE RULE OF GOLD—WHICH
SHALL IT BE?______________________________________________________ 81
VI. 40,000 PRINCIPALITIES—ONE THOUSAND MILLION SLAVES, |
AN D DEATH FOR ALL OF THE WORLD'S EDUCATED AND
RELIGIOUS PEOPLES. SUCH ARE THE RESULTS WHICH WILL
CONSTITUTE THE SUCCESSFUL CULMINATION OF THE
CENTURY OLD PLANS OF MANKIND'S HIDDEN RULERS____ 103
VII. SHALL JESUS OR JUDAS PREVAIL?------------------------- 111
VIII. CHRISTIANS W A N T E D !_________________________________________ 121
IX . M ANKIND'S SELF-APPOINTED GODS AN D THE MONSTER
CALLED "GREED” ________________________________________________ 131
X . THE PRICELESS GIFT OF LIFE A N D W H AT WE D O W ITH IT 153
XI. SHALL WE BE MASTER BUILDERS OR MASTER MURDERERS?
. . . "EXTERM IN ATION " OR "ECONOMIC EQU ALITY"? . . .
M ANKIND MUST CH OOSE------------------------------------------------------------ 161
XII. LIMITLESS FIELDS OF INTEREST . . . A "UNIVERSE" TO
E X P L O R E ___________________________________________________________173
XIII. DOES OUR WORLD BELONG A N Y MORE TO ONE THAN TO
ANOTHER? ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------185
X IV . EARNINGS— HOURS— EDUCATION — GENEROUS BENEFITS
AN D AMPLE V AC A TIO N S-------------------------------------------------------------- 193
X V . THE UNIVERSAL SERVICE CORPORATION — EQUALLY
OW NED—EQUALLY CONTROLLED— EQUALLY BENEFICIAL 207
X V I. BIGOTED SKEPTICISM AND INEVITABLE EXTERMINATION
— OR — INTELLIGENT CO-OPERATION AN D "ECONOMIC
EQUALITY” . . . WHICH SHALL IT BE?_________________________ 247
XV II. MANKIND UNITED— AND— THE INTERNATIONAL 4-4-8-3-4
C L U B _______________________________________________________________ 263
XVIII. N O T A MAD DREAM._____________________________________________269
X IX . CHRISTIANS OF THE W O R LD ! . . . HAVE YO U THE COUR­
AGE TO ACCEPT OUR INVITATION?_
_ _________________________ 281
X X . A CALL TO ARMS AND A BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INSTI­
TUTE'S PROGRAM— W HAT YOU CAN DO TO HELP________ 299
A TOPICAL AND STATISTICAL INDEX
ITEM
NUMBER
(1) — DECEMBER 25, 1875 AND OUR EARLY HISTORY:—
(See Pages 1 to 27 inclusive);
(2) — OUR RESEARCH DEPARTMENT’S DISCOVERIES—
ITS INVENTIONS AND THE EARTH’S LIMITLESS
ABUNDANCE; — (FOR DISCOVERIES AND INVEN­
TIONS See Pages 6 to 10; 31, 65, 71, 77, 90, 91, 92, 112,
122, 123, 126 to 128; 147, 166 to 168; 207, 230, 234, 235,
247, 257, 259, 264, 274, 304;
FOR LIMITLESS ABUNDANCE See Pages 1, 4 to 7;
11, 12, 16, 35, 71 to 78; 85, 91, 101, 121 to 128; 137,
144, 168, 171, 189, 191, 192, 195 to 197; 210, 211, 241
to 244; 258, 259, 264, 292 to 294; 297, 304, 305);
(3) — A WORLD-WIDE 30-DAY PROGRAM— AND— AN IN­
TERNATIONAL ELECTION:-------(See Pages 13, 26, 43,
53, 60, 63, 64, 72, 83, 84, 100, 103, 121, 122, 124, 125,
150, 203, 208, 221, 239, 247 to 256; 260, 263 to 266; 270,
276, 281, 283 to 286; 296, 299 to 309);
(4) -—A $25,000.00 HOME AND A GUARANTEED INCOME
OF FROM $3.,000.00 TO $30,000.00 PER YEAR FOR
ALL:-------(FOR HOME See Pages 122 to 128; 197, 305);
(FOR INCOME See Pages 13, 32, 38, 124, 125, 193, 209,
210, 212, 230, 231, 269, 306);
(5) — 4 HOURS WORK PER DAY, 4 DAYS PER WEEK,
8 MONTHS PER YEAR OF GUARANTEED EMPLOY­
MENT FOR ALL:-------(See Pages 13, 193, 194, 209, 220,
229, 267, 306);
(6) — 3 DAYS EACH WEEK AND 4 MONTHS EACH YEAR
OF VACATIONS, TOGETHER W ITH FREE TRAVEL
TO ANY PART OF OUR WORLD, FOR ALL
WORKERS:-------(FOR VACATIONS See Pages 193, 231
to 233; 267, 306); (FOR FREE TRAVEL See Pages 13,
131, 161, 173 to 175; 198, 231 to 233; 310);
— 11 —
ITEM
NUMBER
I N D E X
(7)— F R E E EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES AND F R E E
DEVELOPMENT OF TALENTS FOR THE PEOPLE
OF EVERY LAND:-------(See Pages 13, 42, 43, 70, 72, 79,
81, 113, 128, 146, 147, 161, 162, 165, 169, 198 to 202;
207, 223, 225, 226, 232, 259);
(8)— 100,000,000 LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTS AND GAR­
DENERS— AND A WORLD-WIDE PARADISE C
FLOWERS, TREES, WATERFALLS, BROOKS, LAKES,
ENDLESS MILES OF TREE-SHADED HIGHWAYS
AND “TENS OF THOUSANDS” OF GLORIOUSL
BEAUTIFUL PARKS:-------(See Pages 75, 127, 194, 19y,
218, 220, 305);
(9)— 200,000,000 ENGINEERS, ARCHITECTS, BUILDERS,
CARPENTERS AND EXPERT FACTORY WORKERS:
(See Pages 122, 126, 127, 128, 197, 305);
(10)— DEPRESSIONS AND WARS MADE TO ORDER BY
THOSE W HO PROFIT THEREBY:-------(See Pages 2,
5 to 10; 16, 30 to 46; 67, 68, 111 to 113; 164, 168, 236);
(11) — GOLD AND SILVER— AND THEIR AGE-OLD CON­
TROL OVER ALL OF HUMAN LIFE:-------(See Pages 6
to 11; 29 to 38; 40, 44, 72 to 74; 78, 81, 82, 95 to 100; 111
to 115; 123, 163, 164, 168, 183, 238, 248, 284 to 286; 304);
(12) — A NEW TYPE OF MONEY— W H Y IT IS NEEDED
AND HOW IT WILL END REVOLUTIONS, WARS,
POVERTY, AND CRIME:— — (See Pages 8, 29, 30, 3(,
38, 44 to 47; 65, 75, 81, 83, 86, 100, 124, 163, 210, 213,
214, 226, 237, 238, 254, 256);
(13)— UNEMPLOYMENT— AND HOW IT CAN IMMEDI­
ATELY AND PERMANENTLY BE CURED:-------(See
Pages 197, 212 to 221; 304);
ITEM I N D E X
NUMBER
(14) — SELF-GLORIFICATION AND HERO WORSHIP— OR
— RECOGNITION OF, AND GRATITUDE FOR, OUR
CREATOR’S LOVE AND OMNISCIENCE: — WHICH
SHALL IT BE?-------(See Pages 6, 23, 37, 49, 50, 113 to
118; 131, 135 to 137; 140, 141, 153 to 171; 175, 178, 185
to 188; 200 to 202; 205, 228, 259, 270, 271, 288, 292,
294, 301);
(15) — WAR AND ITS CAUSES:----(See Pages 2, 5 to 11; 16,
30 to 46; 67 to 74; 81, 82, 85 to 87; 90, 95, 100, 111 to
115; 137, 157, 163, 164, 168, 180, 190, 195, 205, 216, 236,
257 to 259; 264, 276, 283, 288, 290, 303);
(16) — THE NEXT WAR— AND A PLOT TO SLAUGHTER
400,000,000 OF THE WORLD’S MOST HIGHLY EDU­
CATED AND RELIGIOUS PEOPLES:-------(See Pages 5,
7, 10, 64, 85, 86, 95 to 110; 254, 257, 258, 290, 291);
(17) — COMMUNISM AND DICTATORSHIPS ( B L A C K
SHIRTS, BROWN SHIRTS, ETC.):-------(See Pages 95 to
101; 183, 213, 240, 241, 255, 258, 288 to 291: 294, 297
to 302);
(18) — 40,000 RULERS— AND A BRIEF GLIMPSE OF THEIR
PLAN FOR THE ENSLAVEMENT OF THE HUMAN
RACE:-------(See Pages 103 to 110);
(19) — 1000,000,000 PEOPLE UNABLE TO EITHER READ
OR WRITE:-------(See Pages 89, 182);
(20) — 30,000,000 HUMAN BEINGS STARVE TO DEATH
EACH YEAR — AND 500,000,000 MEN, WOMEN,
AND LITTLE CHILDREN (1 OUT OF EACH 4 OF
THE EARTH’S INHABITANTS) A R E ALWAYS
HUNGRY — IN A WORLD OF INEXHAUSTIBLY
ABUNDANT RESOURCES:-------(See Pages 71, 75, 89,
92, 122, 123, 182, 191, 195, 292);
(21) — MULTIPLY— (BY 1,000,000 TIMES)— THE PRESENT
INVENTIONS AND DISCOVERIES OF THE HUMAN
RACE:-------(See Pages 166 and 167);
— IV —
ITEM I N D E X
NUMBER
(22) — AN AUDIENCE AND A PARTNERSHIP 200,000,000
S T R O N G — PLUS A BUYING P O W E R OF
#1,000,000.000.00 PER DAY:-------(See Pages 44, 72, 73,
83, 124, 150, 221, 237);
(23) — A CHART— (DESCRIPTIVE OF THE CUMULATIVE
INFLUENCE OF CO-OPERATION):-------(See Pages 283
to 287 inclusive);
(24) — THE INEXCUSABLE APATHY OF CHRISTIANS—
THE LOSS OF FREE SPEECH— AND THE EARLY
DESTRUCTION OF THE WORLD’S EDUCATIONAL
AND RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS:-------(See Pages 5, 7,
10, 27, 32, 64, 85 to 88; 95, 100 to 113; 143, 144, 180, 195,
254 to 259; 270 to 275; 282 to 297; 303);
(25) — THE UNIVERSAL SERVICE CORPORATION ---
EQUALLY CO-OWNED — EQUALLY MANAGED —
ROTATION IN OFFICE— AND AN EQUAL VOTE
AND EQUAL BENEFITS FOR US ALL:-------(See Pages
13, 21 to 23; 42 to 47; 59 to 63; 72, 73, 83 to 85; 124, 125,
128, 151, 193, 194, 196, 198, 201, 202, 207 to 246; 283,
305, 307, 308);
-------MISCELLANEOUS--------
(26) — A FRIEND’S PALACE— AND A VAST, BEAUTIFUL
PRIVATE ESTATE:-------(See Pages 131 to 135 inclusive);
(27) — POTATO-BUG ALLEGORY:---(See Pages 175 to 180
inclusive);
(28) — BIGOTRY— AND MANKIND’S CEASELESS RESIST-
ANCE TO PROGRESS:-------(See Pages 124, 209, 256,
269 to 277; 281, 283, 290, 303);
(29)— A SUMMARY OF OUR PROGRAM:------ (See Pages 304
to 311 inclusive);
(30) — W H AT YOU CAN DO TO HELP— AND INSTRUC­
TIONS:-------(See Pages 284 to 286 and 304 to 313
inclusive).
— V —
M A N K I N D U N I T E D
PREFACE
This book has been published by The Pacific Coast
Division of The International Registration Bureau, as a
means of answering the public’s many questions regarding
the startling discoveries and ambitious plans of the Re­
search Department of The International Institute of Uni­
versal Research and Administration.
W H A T IS THE IN TERNATIONAL INSTITUTE
OF UNIVERSAL RESEARCH A N D ADM IN ISTRA­
TION?— W HEN AN D W H Y W A S IT ORGANIZED?
— W H A T IS ITS PURPOSE AN D W H A T HAS IT
ACCOMPLISHED?
The above questions are now being asked by “ thinking
people” in all parts of the world, who desire to be correctly
informed upon a subject which is rapidly attracting inter­
national attention.
Unless those to whom this explanatory bulletin is
presented, have spent some millions of dollars in agricul­
tural, industrial, political or general economic research, and
some years of time in world travel, many of the discoveries
described herein may seem difficult to believe or to accept.
However, we ask the men and women who read these
pages, to bear in mind that MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
AN D YEARS OF TIME H AVE BEEN SPENT BY OUR
— vu —
RESEARCH BUREAU FOR THE PURPOSE OF OB­
TAINING “ THE FACTS” UPON W H ICH ITS STATE­
MENTS ARE PREDICATED. These facts are the de­
monstrable findings of an international staff of economists
and research experts, who are fully prepared to prove them
to the world in the manner and at the time specified herein.
Their warnings, recommendations and promises, deserve
the careful consideration of the world’s most “ ENLIGHT­
ENED THINKERS,” and it is primarily for them that this
information has been prepared.
Inasmuch as the program of The International In­
stitute of Universal Research and Administration, is one
of almost indescribably vast extent, it would be quite im­
possible to impart a full understanding of its practical oper­
ations in this small volume. W e therefore ask that you
reserve your judgment regarding the practicability of the
plans, which are but briefly described, until the conclusion
of our Research Department’s International 30-day proc­
lamation and program mentioned herein. However, after
you have carefully studied the following pages, you should
have no difficulty in judging the “IDEALS OF SERVICE”
for which we stand. If these ideals are such that you feel
warranted in extending us your good will and moral sup­
port, then we ask that you most alertly guard against per­
mitting skepticism, doubt or distrust, to enter your thought
because of a possible inability to understand how the start­
ling results we promise, can be brought to pass. Moving
pictures, lectures, radio-broadcasts and printed reports, will
be made available to you— “ without cost”— for your exam­
ination and consideration during The Institute’s world­
wide 30-day program. W e therefore request that you
-vm -
keep constantly in mind, during your perusal of this bulle­
tin, the oft-repeated fact, that *“ There is a principle, which
is a bar against all information, which is proof against all
argument, and which cannot fail to keep man in everlasting
ignorance; this principle is— Contempt— Prior to Exam­
ination.”
While granting us your undivided and unbiased
thought during the time you are scanning these pages, it
will be well to occasionally recall the present-day widely-
accepted fact, that unless the industrious and clear-thinking
people of this earth quickly awaken to the seriousness of
world conditions, and the necessity of immediately uniting
their efforts towards the establishment of an economic
system capable of guaranteeing freedom from wars and
constant rumors of wars, to the citizens of all nations, and
also an assurance of universal financial security, employ­
ment and opportunities for self-improvement,— mankind’s
freedom of thought, speech and action, will soon be re­
linquished in favor of the autocratic rule of a small hand­
ful of dictators with ambition to rule the human race and
control its destiny for their own selfish benefit, and with
but slight consideration for the welfare of anyone else.
In times of stress and economic confusion, people vol­
untarily forfeit their rights to freedom of thought, speech
and action, into the hands of almost anyone who will
promise them food and the temporary provision of their
material requirements. The subversive influences which
have for generations been secretly in control of world af­
fairs, and which have from well behind the scenes of
government and major industries largely controlled human
*Herbert Spencer
-----I X ------
activities and our world’s resources, have constantly sought
ways and means of placing the world’s citizens “ under their
complete and absolute autocratic control.” Wars have been
planned and executed by them and numerous depressions
have occurred solely as the result of their manipulations, in
order that through the effects of fear and despair, mankind
might willingly relinquish their birthright of freedom into
the hands of those able,— through political avenues,— to
temporarily provide the necessities of life.
It is the purpose of this bulletin to partly uncover the
causes of the present depression, and the method by which
it is being continued in preparation for another world war;
a war the principal object of which will not be “ profits,”
but instead, the extermination of some four hundred mil­
lion (400,000,000) of the world’s educated, religious, and
intelligently industrious citizens.
The following pages also describe the many discoveries
and carefully prepared plans of the Research Department of
The International Institute of Universal Research and Ad­
ministration, and the means by which their acceptance and
use, by not less than two hundred million(200,000,000)
clear-thinking men and women, will not only prevent the
approaching civilization-destroying war, but also, without
bloodshed or revolution, disband the world’s armies and
navies, and literally change their cannon and swords into
ploughshares; plans by which wars and rumors of wars will
not only cease to be, but will never again come within the
power of human beings to plan or cause.
— x —
Finally, you will learn of steps now being taken, which
will guarantee every man, woman and child on earth,—
during this and all future generations,— lifelong financial
independence,— the development of individual talents,—
leisure,— and literally unlimited opportunities for free world
travel and self-improvement.
Lincoln reminded the American people that “ A house
divided against itself cannot stand,” and he preserved the
unity of a great nation. The Research Department of The
International Institute of Universal Research and Adminis­
tration, requests the privilege of offering to the people of
our age, a 30-day program of its discoveries. Discoveries
which will bring about the rebuilding of the nations of the
earth, and will force mankind to answer two profoundly
important questions; the answers to which will spell either
the doom of one more civilization,— lost through human
bigotry, selfishness, cruelty and greed,— or will usher in and
permanently establish universal peace, security, confidence,
and “A United International Brotherhood.” Mankind to­
day have the privilege of accepting one of two alternatives:
First— to permit the world to continue “arming to the teeth”
and preparing day and night for war and the legalized
murder of over four hundred million (400,000,000) of its
educated citizens, or— Second— to encourage two hundred
million (200,000,000) clear-thinking industrious men and
women to form into one vast Universal Service Corporation
and Protective Society, capable of guaranteeing every
man and woman on this earth, a lifetime of financial inde­
pendence, freedom of thought, speech and constructive ac­
tion, and powerful enough to put an end to the causes of
both war and poverty.
xi —
It should not be difficult for you to decide upon the second
alternative after reading the following pages, inasmuch as
we neither ask you to take risks nor to make sacrifices of a
dangerous or hazardous nature, yet we offer you an oppor­
tunity for which billions upon billions of people have
prayed throughout all of the countless centuries of human
history.
Again permit us to remind you that the following
brief explanation of discoveries, plans and recommendations,
will only enable you to pass judgment upon the “Ideals”
of the revolutionary world-wide movement which this bul­
letin describes, and that you must not expect to find
sufficient information herein to fully explain the many
features relative to the practical operation of the Inter­
national Business facilities to which we refer,— any more
than you would expect a volume of this size to enable you
(without previous preparation or experience) to compre­
hend the numerous factors relative to the construction of
a great locomotive or its operation. However, you will gain
a glimpse of the magnitude of the program of The Inter­
national Institute of Universal Research and Administra­
tion, and you will be led to form a conclusive judgment,
and an acceptance or rejection of the “ Ideals” for which it
stands. If those ideals are acceptable to you, and if you
believe that our world has a sufficient number of efficient
executives,— highly-trained and expert workers,— enough
inventions, machinery and unused resources — ( “IF UN­
SELFISHLY and INTELLIGENTLY CO-ORDINATED” )
— to uproot poverty and guarantee financial security and
abundant leisure, to every man, woman and child on this
planet, then we ask that you bring The Institute’s 30-day
— xn —
program to the attention of your friends and acquaintances.
In order that you may more readily retain a clear un­
derstanding of the subject matter contained herein, we
strongly recommend that you arrange to read this bulletin
during not to exceed a three-day period. It will require a
total of approximately seven hours of your time.
The International Registration Bureau
Pacific Coast Division
Publishers
PLEASE NOTE:
The frequent use herein, of the words “ Bulletin” and
“ Explanatory Bulletin,” when referring to this volume, has
been adopted because of the fact that the contents hereof
constitute the first of a series of official proclamations or
“ Bulletins” which are to be released to the public by the
Research Department of The International Institute of Uni­
versal Research and Administration. The remainder of said
series will be released during our 30-day program which
this book fully describes.
Furthermore, it should be remembered that most of
the subject matter contained herein was written during
the year 1934; or the dates and various periods of time
referred to may appear to be contradictory.
— v ii'i —
GIVE INSTRUCTION TO A
WISE M AN, A N D HE WILL
BE YET WISER: TEACH A
JUST M AN, A N D HE WILL
IN C R E A S E IN LEARNING.
— Proverbs 9:9
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 1
CHAPTER 1.
OUR EARLY HISTORY
AN D
SIXTY SUCCESSFUL YEARS OF SECRET SERVICE
On December 25th, in the year 1875, a small group
of generous and deeply sincere men and women met for
the purpose of dedicating their lives and their fortunes to
the establishment of a world'wide commercial organization
which would,— by its “ works” as well as its “ words,”—
fittingly commemorate the birth of mankind’s greatly be­
loved exemplar and way-shower— Christ Jesus.
He,— in memory of whom the Christian era is dated,
— taught men that “ The Kingdom of Heaven is at hand,
— and not afar off,” and that they might enter it at any
time they were willing to obey the Golden Rule, and to
live in peace and brotherly love, dealing with one another
as they would be dealt with. He knew that our world’s
resources and its glorious attractions existed in limitless in­
exhaustible abundance and that they had been placed here
for the happiness and equal use of all mankind. He knew
that there was no need for rivalry or greedy competition.
That mankind might be persuaded to prove Jesus’
promises and to practically apply them on a world-wide
scale, and in all branches of human relationships, and that
there might be erected to His memory a monument capable
2 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
of exemplifying the “Spirit,” as well as the “Letter,” of
His teachings, this little group of men and women pledged
their lives, and their combined fortunes of over sixty mil­
lions of dollars, to the permanent establishment of an
organisation which would devote its resources and the
energies of its members, to a discovery of the basic causes
of world-wide poverty,— wars and human suffering.
The program they had determined upon, was quite
unlike any ever before attempted. They proposed to deal,
not with results or effects called Poverty and War, but
with their causes, and if need be to spend their entire for­
tunes and lives in a world-wide investigation and prepara­
tion of plans for the annihilation of what they believed to
be humanly directed causes of mankind’s endless fears,
insecurity and suffering.
They had become convinced that poverty, ignorance,
superstition, fear, hate and war were largely, if not entirely,
the effects of such humanly directed causes, perpetuated
century after century by those individuals who found it
financially profitable to do so, and who had reached such
a degree of moral idiocy that they no longer considered the
sufferings of their victims.
In no way could the men and women who gathered
together that Christmas Day, be classified as visionary im­
practical idealists, although the vision which had gradually
dawned in the thoughts of each one of them during a
period of many years, could only have been the out-growth
of the highest form of unselfed ideals. If we were per­
mitted to mention the names of some of the members of
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 3
that little group, they would be instantly recognized by
the well'informed people of every civilized nation on our
earth today.
They each had experienced extreme poverty in earlier
years and their attainment to positions of wealth and prom'
inence had not been by visionary dreaming, but by ex­
ercising intelligence, industry, and an unyielding deter­
mination to break the shackles of such slavery. However,
success had not dimmed their memories, nor caused them to
forget their tortures of hunger and privation, nor the fact
that hundreds of millions of men, women and little chil­
dren were still hungry and poorly clad— and tens of mil­
lions of them dying of starvation and exposure each year.
And so, on that Christmas Day, in the year 1875, a
world-wide organization was formed and given a name.
A name which for over fifty-eight years was to be known
only by the members of that group, and their immediate
co-workers, but a name which throughout all of future
human history will stand as a beacon light of progress,
forever reminding the men and women of every age, that
the Universe itself is their home, and that there will never
come a time when men will be able to say that they know
all there is to know, and that there is nothing new to ex­
plore or to discover. For never will the Research Depart­
ment of The International Institute of Universal Research
and Administration cease making discoveries of which the
human race should be informed, nor cease from striving
to be worthy of its name’s significance. It will never reach
the stage where it has wholly fulfilled its mission to the
human race, of serving those whom its founders considered
4 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
as their brothers and sisters, and desired to benefit. It
will never cease growing, nor enlarging its capacity to
serve.
The major purpose of The International Institute of
Universal Research and Administration was to be the dis­
covery and application of ways and means by which the
“ Golden Rule” might be “ Practically” applied in all human
relationships, in order that poverty and wars would no
longer occur, and men might learn to live in peace and
happiness, in this gloriously beautiful world home of ours.
That men might learn to enjoy its abundant resources,—
which belong equally to us all, their eyes need only be
opened to the inexhaustible nature of the needful or de­
sirable things of life placed here on our earth in such end­
less variety by our Creator. To open men’s eyes to the
needlessness of poverty and war, and to prove to them
the availability of the earth’s limitless resources, this was
the task to which The Institute’s founders had set their
hands.
People who have spent less time, effort or money in
economic research, may not yet be willing to heed the
warnings which some of The Institute’s discoveries neces­
sitate, nor to believe the promises* which other discoveries
so filled with hope, now justify. Those who are willing,
not only to heed our Research Department’s warnings and
act in accordance with its recommendations, but also to
believe and accept its promises, will be able,— (when they
are sufficient in number),— to awaken the intelligent right-
thinking people of the world in time to obstruct another
war; a war which is internationally planned by the world's
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 5
War Lords and actual Rulers for the purpose of exter
minating the educated and religious inhabitants of the civil­
ized nations, and of permanently enslaving those who are
not slaughtered during this world-wide holocaust of deadly
gases, poisons, death rays and searing flames.
The sparks which would release these forces of ex­
termination— would be scattered during the years 1935,
1936 and 1937. By October 1937, enough war equipment
would be in use, throughout the nations of the earth, to
bring about the complete extermination of over four hun­
dred million (400,000,000) of the world’s educated and
religious classes.
If the Institute’s warnings are heeded and its recom­
mendations accepted quickly enough, there need be no
civilization-destroying war, but instead, mankind will ex­
perience an era of freedom, security and luxurious abun­
dance of the needful and desirable things of life such as
have never before been available to even the world’s
wealthiest or most fortunate citizens. W e are prepared to
prove that poverty is perpetuated and wars are fought
“ solely” for the profit of those who control the world’s
financial structure.
Men are not inarticulate beasts of the field, incapable
of voicing their protests against injustice and needless
poverty, nor are they handicapped by the limited intelli­
gence of an ostrich which hides its head in the sand in
order that by not seeing approaching danger it may believe
itself protected and safe. Intelligent creatures need not
hesitate nor be afraid to bring out from under cover the
6 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
forces of greed, insane ambition and cruelty, which have
for so long a time enslaved the human race. The control
by these soulless, unfeeling taskmasters, expressed as insane
dreams of conquest, (by a few individuals whom mankind
have unwisely permitted to grow wealthy and influential),
can be broken with no more difficulty than that which
would be experienced by herds of cattle in overcoming the
puny influence of their herders, if they but recognized the
strength of their own combined numbers.
On that December Day, long years ago, the founders
of The International Institute of Universal Research and
Administration (to whom we shall hereafter refer as “Our
Sponsors” ), were fully aware of the truth of the above
statement. It was due to their recognition of the fact
that the human race was living in needless bondage to
these taskmasters of greed and insane ambition, that they
pledged their combined wealth of over sixty millions of
dollars to the establishment of a great “ International Re­
search Bureau,” in order that the facts pertaining to the
specific nature of this bondage, and the truth regarding
the limitless quantity and variety of the world’s resources,
might be brought— with adequate supporting proofs— to
the attention of the intelligent right-thinking people of
our world.
Our Sponsors believed, (and their Research Depart­
ment has since proven), that the principal known resources
of the earth had been systematically withheld from man­
kind's use for many centuries, by a world-wide organiza­
tion composed of a small group of families in possession of
fabulous accumulations of wealth, which they were using
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 7
to gradually pauperize and enslave the human race. They
also believed that these people, through an organization,
and an executive board, (to which we shall hereafter refer
as “ War Lords” or “ The W orld’s Hidden Rulers,” and its
“Money Changers” ), possessed complete control through
their followers and satellites, of the political parties, govern­
ments and major utilities and industries of every civilized
nation on earth, and that every revolution or war of any
consequence, during the past number of centuries, had
been planned and executed under their direction, either for
the purpose of financial gain or to safe-guard or strengthen
their political strangle-hold upon the world and its citizens.
Our Sponsors further believed that revolutions and wars
were planned and executed by these subversive influences
for the two-fold purpose of perpetuating poverty and of
killing off the healthiest males of the human race, each
century, in order that the followers and satellites of these
Hidden Rulers might more readily exercise their control
over the world’s resources and its peoples.
They knew that this organization of Hidden World
Rulers had at its disposal hundreds of billions of dollars
in wealth, consisting of gold, silver and jewelry accumulated
during thousands of years, by families, organizations and
governments over which it had gradually gained control;
and that this incalculably vast accumulation of wealth was
under the complete unsupervised jurisdiction of an execu­
tive board consisting of men who had dedicated their
lives and talents to furthering the plans of its original or­
ganizers. Age-old plans to eventually exterminate the
world’s religious and educated classes, and to destroy its
educational, religious and humanitarian institutions, (inas-
8 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
much as they constitute the principal forces attempting to
overthrow poverty and war), and to place in their stead,
an organization composed of these maniacs,— or their de­
scendants or heirs, permanently in control of the human
race and the resources of our earth. These insanely am­
bitious moral idiots, (believing that they or their descen­
dants will some day have principalities of their own, and
thousands of personal slaves at their beck and call), willing­
ly lend themselves to the furthering of such a program.
Our Sponsors believed that when a member of the
executive board of this organization of Hidden World
Rulers passes on, that the remaining members, in order
to maintain the necessary quota of executives, select one
of their most trusted and ambitious agents to take the
place of the deceased, and that for hundreds of years, the
subversive plots of this powerful and well hidden group
have been successfully approaching the time when the
world’s educated and religious classes are to be exter­
minated.
Our Sponsors also believed that there was no possible
way of thwarting these plots, other than to replace gold
and silver as the world’s medium of exchange and basis
of currency and money, with some form of money which
could never be accumulated in large quantities by any in­
dividual or group of people, nor spent by anyone other
than the one to whom it was issued. They believed that
in no other way could the world-wide strangle-hold of the
"Hidden Rulers" be broken, since their thousands of years
of accumulations of gold, silver, jewels, and other easily
stored forms of wealth, had finally reached the point where
their complete and absolute control of world governments
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 9
would soon enable them to bring about the permanent
enslavement of the human race through the avenues of
war.
As a result of former discoveries, it was believed that
two great wars would be fought. Although each of them
would be conducted on a world-wide scale, the first one
would be planned and executed for the dual purpose of
pauperizing the peoples of the earth and of testing out the
potential slaughtering capacity of the war machinery which
the “ War Lords” planned to use in their final war of ex­
termination a few years later. Furthermore, their news-
collecting and dispensing agencies would be fully tested
and experienced in the promulgation and dissemination of
the necessary “Fear and Hate-Generating Propaganda”
required for the successful execution of any great war.
At the conclusion of the first war, all necessary data would
be collected by all nations in reference to any improve­
ments required in the construction of their final war mach­
ine, including the publicity facilities as well as the actual
munitions, armaments and necessary machinery with which
to slaughter vast numbers of human beings. Thereafter,
a number of years would be devoted to perfecting their
plans and equipment, and further impoverishing the sub­
stantial class of the world’s citizens and its trained workers
in order that the necessary Poverty, Fear, Bitterness and
Hate, (which constitute the human fuel upon which the
war propaganda machine must feed), would provide an
acceptable cause for revolutions and wars in the minds of
the citizens of the world’s major nations.
Religious, racial, and class antagonisms and hatreds.
10 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
would in the meantime— through carefully prepared pro-
paganda— be fully inflamed, and the people of these various
groups be crying out to be allowed to tear at each other’s
throats like so many hate-incensed and ravenous wolves.
With such preparations, the world’s Hidden Rulers would
experience but little difficulty in causing their final war of
extermination. With every nation fully armed and equip-
ped, on the pretext and seemingly laudable grounds of
self-defense, it would be childishly simple to ignite the fuse
which would set off their bombs and cannon, and bring
about the slaughter of the hundreds of millions of men,
women and children whom they desire to exterminate.*
In no other way than by murdering the educated and
religious classes of the world’s population, could these
“ Hidden W orld Rulers” hope to bring about the final
destruction of their two greatest enemies to permanent
and complete world control; namely, Mankind’s Educa­
tional Systems and their Enlightened Religious Institutions.
On December 25th, in the year 1875, although each
of the men and women— who had met together for the
purposes previously referred to— had conducted extensive
individual investigations, they had been able to only partly
obtain the necessary substantiating data, but they had,
nevertheless, become convinced that the subversive in­
fluences we have described not only existed but were
rapidly consummating their program to enslave the human
* Without widespread public co-operation our organization can—at this
time—do no more than to temporarily delay this catastrophe.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 11
race. The W orld War of 1914-18, and subsequent events,
constitute at least partial proof of the accuracy of their
early conclusions.
Centuries ago, Columbus believed that there was a
land across the sea. He not only did not know whether
or not this was so, but in addition to his own uncertainty
even the most highly educated people of his day ridiculed
and persecuted him for this belief. Nevertheless, he
searched for the land which his intelligent convictions per-
suaded him existed, and finally he found it. He no longer
just believed that it was there, but he knew and could
prove his claims to even the most skeptical of his former
tormentors, if they would but listen to his testimony or
gaze upon the evidence which he had gathered.
The founders of The International Institute of Uni­
versal Research and Administration had even greater reason
for their belief that the world’s resources existed in such
vast abundance and variety that each member of the hu­
man race could have over one hundred times as much as
he had formerly enjoyed, without exhausting these re­
sources during a period of millions of years. They were
also equally convinced that greed, selfishness and cruelty
bred into the hearts of men by the world’s false system
of private profits, utterly unscrupulous competition, and its
civilisation-destroying theory of the “Survival of the Fit­
test,” had given birth to, and nurtured, cruel and insane
ambitions in the minds of men, until at that time there
existed a group of fabulously wealthy individuals with
neither souls nor scruples, who had become moral idiots
dreaming of owning the world and enslaving its peoples.
12 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
The Institute’s founders did not know, in the year
1875, that their beliefs were provable, but the results of
previous years of research had convinced them that they
were. By the year 1919,— almost forty-four years later,
after spending millions of dollars of the money they had
donated to the service of humanity, and years of their
lives, they no longer just believed but instead, just as in
the experience of Columbus in verifying his convictions,
they also had searched and found irrefutable evidence and
proof of their convictions. They no longer just believed
—they knew!! ! Not only had they proven their theories
(which we have previously described herein) to be cor­
rect, but also much of an indescribably startling nature.
Even those to whom the evidences and proofs were pre­
sented in the form of pictures, photostatic copies of con­
tracts, agreements, and plots for the enslavement of the
human race, found it difficult to believe that human beings
could become such swinish monsters. And none but those
who had seen our Research Department’s pictures and
authenticated hope-inspiring reports of the world’s vast
inexhaustible resources, inventions and facilities for a
world-wide system of quantity production and equality of
distribution of the necessities and luxuries of life, could
believe that such limitless abundance could possibly have
been kept hidden from the human race for so many
thousands of years.
Without the proofs before them, but few men or
women would be willing to believe the statement of The
Institute’s Research Department, that “ Mankind United”
— within a period of “ months”— could not only forever
uproot the causes of war and poverty, but that they could
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 13
usher in such ah era of peace, security and luxurious abun­
dance of the necessary or desirable requirements of mortal
life, that no one would be obliged to work over four (4)
hours a day, four (4) days a week, eight (8) months
each year, to earn a salary of not less than $3,000.00 per
year, irrespective of nationality, color, religion, education,
training or ability. Pensions of $250.00 per month
could be given to all those who had worked a total of
11,000 hours or who were sixty (60) years of age or over,
and desired to retire from active routine duties; also similar
pensions for those who were incapacitated and unable to
work.
Without such proofs it would sound fantastic to claim
that free transportation during vacation periods to any
part of the world— free education, and free development
of talents— could be made available to every man, woman
or child on earth, and many of these benefits enjoyed
within less than ninety (90) days after the acceptance of
the plans and recommendations of our Research Depart-
ment by not less than two hundred million (200,000,000)
of the intelligently industrious class of the world’s popu­
lation.
Because of mankind’s inherent distrust of each new
idea presented to them, and their age-old resistance to pro­
gress, (and because of the fact that the proofs gathered
by our Research Department would require a library of
hundreds of books to adequately describe), a plan for im­
parting these findings to the world’s civilised peoples, in a
manner which would overcome their distrust and win their
support, was finally adopted by the executive board of
14 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
The International Institute of Universal Research and A d­
ministration in the year 1919.
The problems which confronted Our Sponsors, when
it became necessary to determine upon ways and means
by which to place their astounding discoveries in the hands
of the world’s intelligent and right-thinking people, seemed
almost insurmountable. For it must be borne in mind that
the men and women comprising the Research Department
of The Institute, had been obliged to surround their activ­
ities with the utmost secrecy, to prevent detection by some
one of the thousands of spies retained by the world's Hid­
den Rulers. Our Sponsors had successfully evaded detec­
tion during many years by the simple expedient of in­
dividually remaining wholly unknown in connection with
any research activities of an international nature, and of
obtaining any necessary information through carefully
selected, highly intelligent and trustworthy individuals,
who had been appointed through agents for their respec­
tive tasks, and who were never permitted to know the
name nor the identity of their actual employer.
Each of the men and women who had gathered to­
gether on that Christmas Day, in the year 1875, and each
of those who had later been invited to become members
of The Institute's Research Department, had agreed that
if any one of them should ever be suspected of being en­
gaged in activities adverse to the plans and interests of the
world’s W ar Lords and Hidden Rulers, that such a one
would immediately sever his or her connection with the
Research Department of The Institute. Also that none of
them would ever divulge the name or the identity of any
M A N K I N D U N I T E D M
other member of the group, nor acknowledge their con'
nection therewith, even to the members of their own
families or their most intimate acquaintances or associates.
They agreed that they would never grant such information
to anyone during their lifetime, and that even though they
might be forced to submit to forms of torture which would
cause their death, they would still keep these vows. They
further agreed to never invite anyone to join the Research
or Administrative Staff of The Institute, until all of the
members thereof had unanimously voted in favor of ex-
tending such an invitation, nor until the one who had thus
been elected to membership, fully agreed to abide by the
rules of conduct and caution which the nature of The
Institute’s activities required. Needless to say, the selec­
tion of a new member for their group was preceded by
extensive investigations into the character, dependability
and courage of such a one. Finally they had agreed that
should their Research Department develop inventions or
make discoveries of commercial value, that such inventions
or discoveries would under no consideration be used by
The Institute or its organizers for their own financial gain,
inasmuch as such activities might thereby lead to The In-
stitute’s detection by the world’s subversive influences.
Each member of the Research Department of The
International Institute of Universal Research and Admin-
istration, is pledged to the service of the human race with­
out hope of personal profit or remuneration of any kind,
nor in fact, even recognition. These men and women seek
no honors or benefits of any nature whatsoever for their
services. Only by waiving all possibilities of financial
16 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
gain or public acclaim, could they have even hoped to
succeed in making the discoveries they sought, or to com'
plete the plans for the establishment of an economic sys-
tern capable of saving the world from the horrors of war
and ultimate enslavement by those who plot the destruc­
tion of the educational and religious institutions of our
civilization.
Our Sponsors have obtained the necessary proofs and
they no longer “Just Believe,” “They Know ” that illiter­
acy, superstition, ignorance, poverty and war are planned,
directed and perpetuated for the purposes of financial
profit, personal power, and control over the resources and
peoples of our earth.
They have also learned that the earth’s resources are
so limitless in variety and quantity, and civilization’s mech­
anical developments and inventions more than adequate
for the production of such an abundance of the necessities
and luxuries of life, that the entire human family could
live on a scale of luxury exceeding even that now enjoyed
by the world’s so-called wealthy families.
Our Research Department gradually learned that many
idealistic, “but perfectly practical plans” for the alleviation
of human suffering and the establishment of an economic
system capable of permanently guaranteeing mankind
against both war and poverty— have from time to time
been developed and presented to the human race through­
out the centuries. But one and all, they have wholly failed
to uproot the actual causes of poverty or war, and the
numerous other “Humanly-planned Sources” from which
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 17
mankind’s ceaseless woes emanate —for, One and All, they
have been built around “Human Personality” and a pub­
licly known founder or leader. Therefore, all that has
ever been necessary for those in control of world affairs
to do, in order to keep mankind in bondage, has been for
them to get rid of the leaders, and they have thereby in­
variably gotten rid of any movements which might in time
have developed the strength to oppose their rule.
The destruction of any movement for the relief of
human suffering, or which might ultimately bring an end
to war and poverty, has always been accomplished by the
world’s subversive forces in one of four ways;— namely,
either by intimidation, bribery, flattery or assassination.
Our Sponsors had learned of the futility of even at­
tempting to uncover the malignant world-wide causes of
human suffering by attempting to openly appear as the
leaders of a movement to eradicate these evils. The only
possibility of their success rested in the source of the in­
formation released to the world, and the names or the
identities of those who obtained such information, remain­
ing permanently unknown.
The paramount necessity of “Absolute Secrecy” was
quite apparent to each of those who comprised The In­
stitute’s sponsors, for they had learned that the secret
service departments of the information agencies controlled
by the world’s “ Hidden Rulers” contained considerably
over 10,000 highly trained and well-paid spies, devoting
their entire time to the task of supplying information con­
cerning the activities of the peoples of all nations, and the
18 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
relationship of such data to the activities of the depart-
ments employing them.
Having learned that the vast wealth of the world’s
“ Money Changers” (its “Hidden Rulers” ) enabled them to
readily destroy any movement adverse to their interests—
(if they could discover its sponsors and its headquarters
or the sources of information from which its plans had
been evolved)— our Research Department, shortly after
its formation, undertook to discover the exact reasons for
the failure of many thoroughly practical plans which had,
from time to time, been presented to the human race for
the prevention of wars and the cure of poverty. Any one
of a number of these plans, if universally adopted, would
immediately have succeeded, but they had never been al­
lowed to get beyond the “ Discussion” stage. Our Research
Department had to know the reason for these failures,
in order that it might thereby guard against their repeti­
tion in its own experience.
It soon learned that one of four (4) methods are al­
ways used by the world’s Hidden Rulers. Since any
movement at its inception can be destroyed by destroying
its leader or obstructing his activities, the subversive forces
always resort to one of the four (4) methods to which
we have just referred. First they try Intimidation, either
through the avenues of ridicule or direct Threats. Should
intimidation fail, then they next attempt to Bribe the or­
iginator of any plans adverse to their interests, if they
think he can be reached in that way. One of these two
methods usually succeeds. However, if both fail, then
for a time the plans of the organizer or leader are “ Aided”
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 19
until he has gained a following. After that, th® glorifh
cation of his personality and a program of “ Ceaseless Flat­
tery” is systematically conducted, until he becomes thor-
oughly convinced that he is indeed a super being and
deserves the praise and adulation of everyone with whom
he comes in contact. It is not long thereafter until he has
quite forgotten his ideals of service, and desires only to
add to his own prestige. His appetite for adulation and
flattery develops so rapidly that he has but little time
left in which to accomplish any “ constructive” results.
He is quite too busy feeding his ego, and thenceforth the
“ Money Changers” have nothing to fear from him.
If this third method does not succeed, the fourth and
last one they use has never, throughout hundreds of years,
failed to accomplish the result they desire. If a move-
ment is gaining too much headway, and a leader’s ideals of
service and his plans for uprooting the causes of war or
poverty seem to be succeeding in spite of interference,
then the fourth method is used— “Assassination.” This last
method has invariably destroyed any movement which de-
pended upon the motivating influence of a human leader
for its success.
Countless practical plans, quite able to end both war
and poverty, have been presented to the human race by
generous, brilliant and deeply sincere men and women.
Yet, not one has ever been allowed to progress beyond the
“ Conversational or Discussional Stage,” for all have had
a known originator or human leader, who could be thwart­
ed or put out of the way at will.
20 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
The Sponsors of The International Institute of Uni­
versal Research and Administration fully realized that the
only method by which the plots of the world’s “Hidden
Rulers” could ever be uncovered and brought to the at­
tention of mankind, and the only way by which a plan
capable of ending war and poverty would ever be estab­
lished, would be for those who originated it to remain
beyond detection. They knew that no plan to assure peace
and happiness to the human race could ever succeed un­
less the source which provided information to the public,
and those responsible for its continuous and uninterrupted
release— “ Remained Unknown,” and thereby beyond the
murderous reach of the agents of such subversive influ­
ences.
Those who control the world’s governments, and its
political and industrial structures, and who plan the early
extermination of its most enlightened citizens, do not waste
their time fighting the followers of a movement; “ they
deal not with effects but with causes.” “To destroy a
movement, they destroy its leader;” but they cannot des­
troy a program built upon the indestructible foundation
and leadership of an “ Idea” instead of a person. There­
fore, our Sponsors determined upon “ a grouping of ideas,”
which would constitute a form of leadership “ without any
known headquarters or personal leaders to attack;” yet
fully capable of ultimately bringing to pass the establish­
ment of an organization with sufficient world-wide influ­
ence to uproot and destroy the age-old power of the satel­
lites of selfishness and greed, and those who are now the
world’s “Hidden Rulers.”
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 21
A program capable of accomplishing this result and
with its headquarters and leaders permanently beyond the
reach of the world’s subversive forces, was conceived of
and adopted by the Sponsors of The International Institute
of Universal Research and Administration in the year
1875. The proof that they have been fully successful in
guarding and protecting their activities, is the fact that the
headquarters and the identities of The Institute’s founders
and research experts are— “over a half century later”— still
unknown. The wisdom of this cautious policy is evidenced
by the further fact that those who have been appointed to
impart The Institute’s discoveries to the world and to carry
out their program, are now rapidly reaching the culmin­
ation of their plans for the successful establishment of a
world-wide Co-operatively-owned Universal Service Cor­
poration. An internationally-owned business corporation,
powerful and influential enough to permanently prevent
any further wars and, for all time to come, to end the
rule of those influences of selfishness and greed, personi­
fied by people who keep the human race in endless poverty,
and— for purposes of financial gain— subjected to utterly
needless bloodshed and ceaseless suffering.
During Our Sponsors’ many years of preparation for
the fulfillment of their plans, and for the establishment
of an organization universally influential enough to carry
them forward to ultimate success— the most important re­
quirement was a well-equipped Research Department with
a staff of experts comprising the most talented available
members of each major branch of human endeavor. Exact
information— “Facts,” not “ Theories”— constitutes the only
22 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
foundation upon which any “lasting” accomplishment
can be erected.
To destroy the influences which keep the human race
in constant bondage to age-old humanly perpetuated foes,
such as war and poverty, it would be necessary to discover
the source or sources from which they emanate. It would
also be necessary to know exactly, “ How”— “ What” and
by “W hom” they are fed. In other words, to discover the
organization or organizations, the materials or elements,
and the method or methods responsible for the perpetu­
ation, century after century, of these monstrosities and
destroyers of human security and happiness.
Finally, after completing such discoveries— if they
were to be of any value to the human race— it would be
necessary to perfect a program capable of destroying these
enemies and preventing the appearance at some later date
of similar ones.
To establish a world-wide economic system in which
there would be no room left for either war, poverty, or
those who condone them, there was but one plan which
could possibly succeed. The production and distribution
of the necessities and luxuries of human life would have
to be conducted by a profit-sharing, equally-owned, world­
wide corporation, on such a vast and efficient scale that
no man, woman or child in any part of the world would
be denied anything essential, or constructively desirable,
for his or her happiness, security or advancement. To
bring such universally needed results to pass, would re­
quire the whole-hearted tireless efforts of the world’s most
out-standing and experienced experts and leaders, selected
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 23
from every branch of human activity, and from every
corner of the globe. In addition, such people would be
obliged to remain wholly unknown to the world; not only
when conducting their investigations and perfecting the
plans for their great “Universal Service Corporation,” but
also permanently thereafter.
If they were to successfully guard against the danger-
ous influences of jealousy, envy or pride, which might
strike at their achievement through the avenues of relig­
ious, racial or class antagonisms, it would be necessary that
not even the members of their own immediate families
ever be allowed to know the identities of those who would
constitute The Institute’s Research or Administrative Staffs.
A t such a time as their plans were fully consummated,
neither their own families, their relatives nor descendants,
must ever be given the opportunity to expect or receive
special favors, privileges or recognition, inasmuch as an
economic system based upon the “ Golden Rule” and a
“ Brotherhood of Economic Equality,” must provide no
room for the “ glorification” of human beings or “ hero-
worship.” Although men may respect and gratefully ap­
preciate a worthy human accomplishment, they should
worship and glorify God,— not one another.
In other words it was necessary that the members of
the Research and Administrative Department of The Inter­
national Institute of Universal Research and Administration,
be composed of men and women possessing not only excep­
tional qualities of intelligence, together with outstanding
executive experience and ability, but also a deeply sincere
willingness to serve the human race without hope of fi-
24 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
nancial gain or public recognition or glory, but to do so in
exchange for no other reward than the satisfaction which
the successful performance of a worthy accomplishment
might bring to them.
Towards the close of the year 1919, after a period of
forty-four (44) years of continuous effort and an expend­
iture of many millions of dollars— the Sponsors of The
Institute had— (although but gradually)— finally succeeded
in completing the formation of a group of executives and
Research Experts capable of carrying their original and
unaltered program on to its ultimate fulfillment.
During these years, the little group which had gath­
ered together on that Christmas Day so long ago, had drawn
ceaselessly and generously upon their talents and the ex­
periences of their successful careers, as well as upon their
personal fortunes, in order that the organization they had
founded might become so firmly established and so thor­
oughly and so correctly informed upon the matters to
which they had dedicated their lives, that before the ad­
vancing years could too greatly reduce their ranks, they
would have fully removed all elements of uncertainty or
possibilities of failure.
Not only had they made many startling discoveries
of incalculable value to the human race— in behalf of our
own as well as future generations— but they had also care­
fully and wisely replaced those of their number who had
passed on.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 25
By the end of the year 1919, the Research and Admin­
istrative Departments of the Institute had been gradually
increased to a total executive force of two hundred (200)
people. Selected exclusively from the ranks of men and
women who had experienced extreme poverty in their
earlier years, but who had proven their qualifications and
practical abilities by their successful careers and individ­
ually acquired fortunes, this group of two hundred (200)
research experts and executives possessed ample qualifi­
cations for the accomplishment of the purpose for which
they had voluntarily dedicated their lives when the op­
portunity to do so had been extended to them. It was
agreed that until after the end of the year 1936, (at which
time their program would be approaching its culmination),
a Research and Administrative group of exactly two hun­
dred (200) members would be maintained. Should one
of their number pass on, a selection of a man or a woman
of similar qualifications to those of the deceased would be
made, subject to the “Unanimous Agreement” of the re­
maining members. The one thus selected would be sub­
ject to the same irrevocable pledges, and would be voted
upon in the same manner as had each of the group of two
hundred (200) chosen during the previous years.
This Executive Board, (to whom we shall continue
to refer as “ Our Sponsors” ), therefore at this time con­
sists of two hundred (200) practical, successful and widely
experienced experts and authorities, selected from the
agricultural, mining, manufacturing, merchandising, bank­
ing, transportation, educational and religious groups of
leaders, of the world’s most advanced civilized nations.
26 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
Since the year 1919, while waiting for world events
and mankind’s qualities of thought to reach the point
where the authenticity of The Institute’s warnings would
be self-evident and its recommendations universally under­
standable, our Research Department has carefully checked,
tested and proven the value of each of its discoveries, revo­
lutionary mechanical inventions, policies and contemplated
plans of procedure developed during their many years of
preparation.
All is now in readiness for a world-wide “ Free” 30-
day program, during which time The Institute’s well-
guarded sixty years of discoveries and carefully prepared
recommendations will be freely offered to the human
race. In two-hour programs repeated day and night,
twelve times each twenty-four hours, five days each week,
this ambitious international proclamation of warnings and
recommendations will be freely given to the two hundred
million (200,000,000) clear-thinking men and women
throughout the nations of the earth, to whom we are now
extending our invitation.
A t the conclusion of said thirty-day program, a world­
wide election will be conducted and an international vote
obtained upon one hundred (100) separate measures,
which The Institute will at that time offer to the intel­
ligent right-thinking members of the human race for their
acceptance or rejection.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 27
Although no effort has been made to either embellish,
elaborate or treat in full detail The Institute's discoveries,
and the various aspects of a subject which will require a
thirty-day use of moving pictures, radio broadcasts, and
much in the nature of charts and supporting statistical
reports to comprehensively impart, nevertheless the fol­
lowing pages of this Bulletin are intended to outline a
number of the humanly-planned causes of war and poverty,
and the basic principle upon which any program for their
correction must be established. It has been rightly stated
that a carefully-prepared picture can supply as much in­
formation as the use of ten thousand words. It can there­
fore be readily understood why we request that the public
postpone its opinion of our claims and recommendations
until the conclusion of our free 30-day program, which
will— (with the use of moving pictures and other modern
and efficient methods of presentation)— provide informa­
tion which would otherwise require the publication of
many hundreds of volumes of highly technical reports
However, a careful reading of this Bulletin will provide
sufficient data for those who are unbiased, to form at
least a partial opinion of the character, motives and ideals,
of those who constitute The Sponsors of this world-wide
movement.
28 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
so.;
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 29
CHAPTER II.
THE W O RLD ’S HIDDEN RULERS
Inasmuch as the power of the world’s subversive in-
fluences— its “Hidden Rulers”— consists primarily of their
vast century'old accumulations of gold and silver, and
the fact that such metals constitute the basic element sup-
porting the money structures of all civilized nations, no
program could possibly succeed which failed to take this
major fact into consideration, or which failed to sponsor
the universal adoption of a wholly different and unaccumu-
lative form of currency. It has been the boast of the
agents of these “ Hidden Rulers,” that it has seldom been
necessary to assassinate any of the world’s so-called finan­
cial or political leaders, for only infrequently do they find
one they cannot either intimidate, flatter or “Buy” . How­
ever, it occasionally takes a little more money to buy some
than others. Therefore, since the “ Gold and Silver” re­
serves under the direct control of these “ Hidden World
Rulers,” at this date exceed those of even the combined
governments of the earth, it should not be difficult to un­
derstand— with the financial structure and money ex­
changes of every nation completely under their influence—
30 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
why every government on earth is today directly or in­
directly, wholly and entirely controlled by them; nor to
understand why this condition exists, irrespective of the
name or nature of the political parties which the public
naively vote into office.
Believing that by the use of their vote, they are there-
by having some voice in the administration of their coun­
try’s business and consequently in matters which directly
affect their own lives, the world’s citizens pay very little
attention to what actually takes place in the political af­
fairs of their respective nations, until finally, they lose either
their lives through war, or their financial security and
happiness through a subtly-planned, and expertly-executed
depression.
In recognition of the frequently destructive power of
misused wealth, all clear-thinking men and women are
aware of the fact that the moneys of the world must be
established on a basis other than gold or silver, before the
human race dtr
n even hope to break its present shackles
and bondage to war and poverty, or to prevent its ultimate
and complete enslavement to those whose vast accumu­
lations of these metals enable them to hold mankind in
endless bondage.
Inasmuch as the age-old curses of illiteracy, ignorance,
superstition, autocratic domination, war and poverty, con­
stitute the principal sources of profit for those who have
for centuries governed the affairs of the human race, man­
kind can expect neither peace nor security, until the people
whom greed and insane ambition have turned into moral
idiots, are no longer able to control the governments and
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 31
resources of the earth, through accumulations— century
after century— of its gold and silver.
Those who are familiar with the manipulations of the
international stock exchanges and banking systems of the
world, can readily understand how the possession of vast
accumulations of gold and silver would enable the individ-
uals in whose hands they rested, to completely dominate
and control the lives of men.
W ith the power to increase or decrease the value of
stocks, real estate and the prices of food, clothes and other
human necessities at will, through the mediums of care­
fully planned revolutions and wars together with periods
of both national and world-wide depressions, a monopoly
of the earth’s principal resources and a direct but well
hidden control of the financial policies, and therefore the
governments of the world’s major nations, have been main­
tained century after century. Mankind will have little or no
opportunity to resist this domination as long as gold and
silver are enthroned as the world’s basis of currency, and
as the gods which it worships.
The human race, without realizing it, expends liter­
ally its entire efforts and the fruitage of its talents, inven­
tions and progressive developments, merely adding to the
wealth and strangle-hold over human life already posses­
sed by those who control the moneys and mediums of
exchange required by men in their business transactions
with one another. For centuries men have worked, not
for themselves and their families, but for the world’s
“ Money Changers,” — its “ Hidden” though “Actual”
Rulers.
32 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
When carefully analyzed it is found that for centuries:
over ninety-seven (97) out of every one hundred (100)
families in the world have expended their entire talents
and energies without having received even the barest
necessities of a well-rounded life, in payment for their
efforts. Although men have continuously been made to
feel that the “ Private Profit System,”— evolved by the
“Money Changers,”— provides everyone with an equal
opportunity for compensation and advancement in pro­
portion to his or her respective talents, nevertheless, well
planned and expertly executed wars and depressions have
always stolen these rewards from them.
The cunningly planned plots and slavery of the “ Pri­
vate Profit System” become self-evident, when we realize
that the world’s “ Money Changers ”— through the avenues
of revolutions, wars and periodical depressions— get back
most of the money they pay out in salaries or business
profits to others. They readily retrieve such expenditures
through the profits of revolutions, wars— carefully planned
unemployment, depressions, continuous and ever-increasing
taxation— royalties from the control of major patents— the
manipulation of industries and stocks— wheat and food ex­
changes— together with the almost religiously encouraged
money savings of the world’s thrifty population, deposited
for so-called “ safe-keeping” in the “Money Changers’ ”
centrally-controlled international system of banks and “so-
called” trust companies. Their method is really quite
simple, since all they require to assure their success, is an
attitude of indifference on the part of the public, and this
mankind themselves generously provide.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 33
Revolutions and wars, together with world-wide
poverty, and its endless cycles of depressions and unem­
ployment, comprise the broadest channels through which
the “Hidden Rulers’ ” constantly growing accumulations of
gold, silver and jewelry, flow into their treasuries.
W hen people are out of work and hungry, they will
sell not only their old gold, silverware and jewelry but
also “their services," for little or nothing, in order that
they might thereby obtain food. To bring about such
conditions of dire need it is only necessary for the “Money
Changers” to cause what the world calls “A Depression” .
Being in complete control of the international money and
credit structure, they need only shut off the flow of credit
to the business men, farmers and other employers of human
labor,— shut down the major industries of the world,—
(most of which they either partly, or entirely control),
start calling in the thousands of loans made through their
banks and other credit avenues,— manipulate the stock and
bond exchanges in such a manner that thousands of banks
fail and are forced to close their doors, and the “Money
Changers,”— with but slight inconvenience thereafter,—
quickly “ gather up” the previous few years of so-called
“ prosperity” savings, accumulated by millions of thrifty
people all over the world. It is not long, by the application
of such methods, before they have retrieved whatever
surplus funds the industrious workers, farmers and business
men have gradually accumulated from their “ seemingly”
generous salaries or business profits.
34 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
Those whose savings are not taken through bank
failures and other occurrences of a similar nature, are forced
— (by means of unemployment)— to gradually use up their
surplus funds.
W hen enough people have been thrown out of work
and are no longer able to buy the output of those of the
world’s factories which may still be continuing to operate,
nor to purchase the produce of the farms, then these agri­
cultural and industrial institutions are likewise forced to
cease hiring men and women. Soon their surplus stocks
are disposed of at whatever they can get for them, in (what
has become through lack of buyers),— a rapidly declining
market, and they also are left entirely at the mercy of the
world’s “ Money Changers” . As soon as it is known that
practically all surplus funds have been exhausted, then any
loans or mortgages against these people or businesses are
called in for payment. Knowing that such people have no
funds with which to pay off their loans, the farms and
businesses belonging to them are then taken over by these
“Money Changers,” through their satellites and agents,
to be disposed of in accordance with their program for
retrieving any accumulations of jewelry, gold or silver,
gathered by the world’s population during the previous
generation, and of gaining control of the new inventions,
discoveries, patents, resources or properties, which may be
of benefit to them in the exercise of their continued dom­
ination over the affairs of men.
W hen the business, professional, industrial, agricul­
tural and employee groups have, through the process of
a long drawn-out depression, been forced to use up what-
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 35
ever form of savings they may not have already lost
through bank failures, or some other premeditated form
of robbery, they are next obliged to draw upon their emer­
gency reserves of stocks and bonds which they have grad­
ually accumulated through their industrious efforts, fru­
gality and self-denial. Since by that time, few but the
very rich have any money left with which to buy even
the necessities of life, (to say nothing of such “ luxuries”
as stocks and bonds), there is, consequently, but very
little market for these securities, which have been so care­
fully put away for the “ rainy day.” Inasmuch as there
are only a few buyers, and therefore little demand, it is
not long before the holders of these securities offer them
at a reduced price to anyone who will buy. The day soon
arrives when those who formerly were not wise enough
to sell, are obliged to reduce their prices still further, until
stocks and bonds which they purchased at a unit price—
let us say, of $10.00— from the “Money Changers”—
(through their satellites, the international system of stock
exchanges, banks and “ so-called” trust companies),— they
are very happy to sell back to them at a unit price of
$5.00. However, waiting their time, it is not long before
the “ Money Changers” through their world-wide agencies
are able to buy back these securities at not only as low as
$5.00, $3.00 or $1.00 per unit, but almost in exchange
for a loaf of bread,— if people by that time have become
hungry enough to make such sacrifices of their resources.
Men who have lost their homes and have no money
with which to buy food, will gladly consent to the pass­
ing of local, state or national measures, granting their
respective governments the right to issue millions or even
36 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
billions of dollars in bonds, with which to provide food,
clothes and homes for those who have been deprived of
such necessities; — knowing these facts, the “ Money
Changers” soon find that they are quite able,— as the result
of their carefully planned depression, to further strengthen
their hold upon the governments and industries controlling
the lives of such people. In fact, since there are by that
time none who are able to underwrite such bonds, (and
thereby provide the money with which to feed the un­
employed) ,— other than the financial institutions controlled
by these subversive influences, they not only succeed in
“Stealing” the most desirable homes, businesses, farms,
and properties of the people of an entire nation, and are
enabled to buy back stocks or bonds for a few pennies,—
which they formerly sold for many dollars per unit,—
but they also receive as a reward of their careful plans
and financial manipulations, a mortgage upon the re­
sources of an entire nation and the labor of its citizens
and their descendants, for generations to come.
In case you should be tempted to believe that people
should be grateful to them for buying these bonds,— and
thereby providing the money with which to feed and
clothe those in need during the depression,— let us remind
you that such bonds are purchased with the very money
which belonged to the people themselves, but which the
“ Money Changers” had stolen from them through bank
failures, property foreclosures, depreciated bonds, stocks
and property values, so carefully premeditated and ar­
ranged. Not only have they thereby succeeded in stealing
the peoples’ money but also through the medium of end­
less taxes for the repayment of such bonds and interest.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 17
they have likewise caused them to mortgage their future
earnings and even the earnings of their descendants.
In the meantime, these manipulators of the world’s
economic structure,— “ its Actual, though Hidden Rulers,”
— succeed, not only in acquiring the new inventions, dis­
coveries or properties and other resources they may desire
to control, but simultaneously,— through the curtailed
production of food and other necessities of human life,—
the prices of such commodities are gradually increased
until those who control the sources of supply, are able
not only to hire labor at their own figure, but also to sell
the products of such labor at any price they may deter­
mine upon for their profit. Considered from all angles,
a depression is certainly a most profitable form of manipu­
lation for those in control of the world’s major reserves
of gold and silver, and the moneys based thereon. The
fact that tens of millions of men, women and little children
are obliged to suffer pangs of hunger, exposure, and the
loss of the homes for which such men and women may
have worked the greater part of their lives, does not cause
the slightest concern to those whose only thought is the
accumulation of more and ever more of that which they
worship as their God;— the only “trinity” to which they
ever bow down— “ Money,” “ Power” and “ Influence.”
And so we find that that which the world has glorified
as its greatest stimulant to human progress,— “THE COM ­
PETITIVE PRIVATE PROFIT SYSTEM,”— has once
more betrayed its followers into the hands of those who
many long centuries ago originated it as a means by which
to extract the fruitage of mankind’s achievements of bril-
38 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
liancy, genius and industry, without compensation; always
holding out the “ bait” of “personal profit or financial gain,”
— yet knowing that they would never have to pay,— it has
been childishly simple for the people who control vast sums
of the world’s present form of money, to get what they
want “ without ever losing the bait.”
Another broad avenue through which the world’s
“ Hidden Rulers” retain their control over human affairs,
and at the same time add to their wealth, is that which
carefully planned and executed revolutions and wars pro­
vide. Although human lives and grief-stricken broken
hearts are the materials they use in these manipulations,
their financial gains and increased gold and silver reserves
are none-the-less gratifying to them. In addition they
thereby also reduce the danger of ultimately being over­
thrown, inasmuch as their slaughter, each century, of the
healthiest, strongest and most courageous males through­
out the various civilised nations of the earth, effectually
removes a source from which a vigorous and fearless op­
position might some day be formed.
The method by which revolutions and wars are
brought to pass for the profit and continued reign of these
subversive influences, will be but briefly touched upon in
this Bulletin. However, during the world-wide free, thirty-
day program, by the Research Department of The Inter­
national Institute of Universal Research and Administra­
tion, which is more fully described in the last chapter
hereof, a complete expose of the methods used during many
centuries by the world’s “ Hidden Rulers,” through which
mankind have been kept in ceaseless bondage, will be placed
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 39
in the hands of the clear-thinking, intelligent men and
women of every nation.
Through the avenues of propaganda the “ Hidden
Rulers” create either hate or fear in the hearts of the
people of various groups or nations, and thereafter with
but little difficulty, impress such people with the necessity
of spending vast sums of money, through bond issues by
their governments, for “ defensive” (?) armaments and
munitions of war, for what they are pleased to call “ Pre­
paredness” against the attack of some neighbor nation.
A t the same time, such neighbor nation is impregnated
with similar qualities of either hate or fear and per­
suaded to spend thousands of millions of dollars, that its
people may likewise build up a defense against the attack
of the nation, which they themselves,— (according to their
neighbor’s propaganda),— are supposed to be preparing to
attack.
Through this method, the people of the entire world
are persuaded to part with their earnings and business
profits, down the avenues of taxation, in order that their
respective nations may be well prepared against the attack
of other nations, who are likewise preparing— not for wars
of aggression— but,— (so they think), — for purposes of
defense. Without this ceaseless flow of hate and fear-
generating propaganda, there wouldn’t be even one man
or woman out of each million citizens of any one of the
world’s civilized nations, who would have the slightest
desire to wage a war of aggression against the people of
any other country.
Unless they are deliberately influenced otherwise,
40 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
human beings in ail civilized parts of the world are pri-
marily peace-loving creatures, concerned with their own
personal advancement and the happiness of their families
through normal avenues of industry and the develop­
ment of individual talents— not through murdering some­
one against whom, by the wildest stretch of their imag­
ination, they can have no logical reason for any feelings
of antagonism.
Inasmuch as the industries controlling the production
and sale of armaments and munitions of war are largely,
if not entirely, dominated by the “ Money-exchange”
structure to which we have referred, most of the huge
profits from these industries flow directly into the pockets
of those who manipulate the thoughts, emotions,— and
thereby, the governmental expenditures of mankind.
By causing wars on the pretext of requiring room for
expansion,— or possibly for the much more idealistic pur­
pose of “ Ending all Wars,”— the armaments and munitions
which have thus been sold are thereby destroyed, and
must of course be “quickly” replaced because of the im­
minent danger of another war, “as we are told.” W e are
led to believe that a war of aggression is being planned
by a nation which has been preparing for many years to
destroy our people and steal our resources, whereas the
fact of the matter is, that most of these “ demoniacal
human beings,” — (as they are pictured to us),— have prob­
ably never even “ heard” of our country, or if they have,
we mean only a name and a few lines on some world
map to them. They are quite too busy trying to make a
living, and trying to find just a little normal and deserved
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 41
happiness for themselves and their families, than to be
giving any thought to whether they like or dislike us.
W ith but few exceptions, there has never been a
revolution or a war which would ever have been fought,
had not some individual or small group of ambitious and
usually insanely cruel and morally depraved human be­
ings, devoted their efforts and resources to stirring up
either “ fear,” “ bitterness” or “ hate” in the hearts of
people whom they desired to use as cannon fodder.
It is doubtful if there has ever been a war which
has ever benefited anyone other than those who planned
and executed it, in order that they might thereby gain
wealth, power or glory for themselves. The “ only excep­
tions” to this statement, would be the revolutions or wars
fought to gain personal liberty, freedom of speech and
religious freedom, or in order that men might be allowed
to form governments which would enable them to enjoy
privileges withheld from them by their former tyrannical
rulers.
However, our Research Department will prove during
its international 30-day program that even the worthy
institutions of liberty could have been established with­
out having had to, at any time during the past two hun­
dred (200) years, resort to bloodshed or violence, had
those who desired the enjoyment of “ life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness,” been willing to stand together and
express as much unity of purpose in the exercise of intel­
ligently industrious efforts in behalf of the production and
equal distribution of the necessities and luxuries of life,
as they were willing to “ emotionally expend” in venting
42 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
their bitterness and hate on the fields of battle.
Had the mothers, sisters and wives of those who
fought for liberty, been willing to make as many sacri­
fices in the building of an economic system patterned after
the “ Spirit” as well as the “ Letter” of the “ Golden Rule,”
established upon the foundation of “ Economic Equality;”
and had they been willing to sell their jewels and melt
up their silverware to produce the machinery and equip­
ment for the accomplishment of such a result without
bloodshed, in the same manner in which they were willing
to make such sacrifices that they might buy uniforms,
guns, bullets and swords to send their men folk out upon
the fields of battle to be slaughtered or maimed, then no
wars during the past two hundred (200) years would
have been necessary, even for the noble ideal of “liberty.”
Nor would the world’s Napoleons, and others of their ilk,
ever have had the opportunity of causing the murder of
millions of men, and the broken hearts and lives of count­
less millions of mothers, sisters, wives and helpless little
children, century after century.
With the establishment of a world-wide system of
production and distribution, based upon “ Economic Equal­
ity” and the spirit of the “ Golden Rule,” there would be
no room nor opportunity for private profit in conflict with
the welfare of the majority. Personal ambitions would
have to take the form of improved individual abilities, and
the development of constructive talents, rather than the
accumulation of money or the development of one’s ego­
tistical conviction of his own superiority to others. Serving
one another,— one for all and all for one,— would take the
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 43
place of self-glorification, and public acclaim would come,
not upon the battlefield for having proven one’s self a
“better killer” than another, but instead, a “ better doer”
of deeds of service for the happiness of one’s fellowmen.
as well as one’s self. Those with kindly thoughts, gener­
ous hearts and noble aspirations in the direction of human
welfare and service, would be the ones who would win the
respect of their fellowmen. There would be no room for
either the qualities of a bully or those of a swine, and it
would be the sons of Beelzebub instead of the sons of men
who would have no place to lay their heads.
It is such an economic system, built around the ideal
of brotherly love and a desire for the development of con­
structive individual talents, which Our Sponsors seek the
privilege of establishing. Wars are fought for the purpose
of stealing mankind’s wealth, but we ask no sacrifice of
jewels or other prised possessions of the men and women
to whom this invitation is being extended. W e ask only
that the world’s right-thinking people permit us to form
them into an organization two hundred million (200,-
000,000) strong; that there may be established a Univer­
sal Service Corporation, “ equally owned,” and its pro­
duction and distribution of the luxuries and the neces­
sities of life, “ equally enjoyed,” by not only the people
who comprise this group, but likewise all others in any
nation of the earth, as soon as they are willing to comply
with the ideals of service and brotherly love which its
charter will embody.
W e ask only that these two hundred million
(200,000,000) people combine their influence and the vast
44 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
buying power of over one thousand million ($1000,000,000)
dollars per day, which they now possess, and that they use
this readily available power in such a manner that a great
“ Universal Service Corporation,”— equally owned and
equally controlled by each of their number,— may be inter-
nationally established, and through its influence succeed
in bringing to pass the world-wide acceptance of a type of
money which can never be accumulated by any one person
or group of persons in large enough quantities to cause
either wars or poverty.
W e ask only that a type of money be thereby estab­
lished which will,— for all time to come,— stand as a monu­
mental symbol of indignation against a system which could
unresistingly condone the slaughter of eight million
(8,000,000) of its healthiest and finest young men under
the sanctions of war; a system which could condone such
legalized murder merely in order that a handful of “swinish
moral idiots” might thereby derive over one hundred and
twenty billions of dollars ($120,000,000,000.) of the
world’s wealth, to add to their already bulging treasure
chests. Over fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in net
profits for each man killed was,— during the last world
war,— their reward for possessing large enough accumula­
tions of gold and silver to influence the thoughts of the
entire “ so-called” civilized world into consenting to war.
W e ask only that the right-thinking people of every
land consent to the adoption of a form of money based
on a different standard of value than either gold or silver,
in order that the age-old power and influence possessed
by the world’s subversive forces, may thereby be forever
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 45
taken from them; and that no person or group of persons
ever again be allowed to gain enough wealth, influence or
power to buy, bribe or mesmerically direct the thoughts
of others through avenues of propaganda, into agreeing
to the legalised slaughter of human life,— to which men
have been taught to consent,— under the name of “ War.”
Is it too much to ask that the Biblical commandment,
“Thou Shalt Not Kill,” be “ Practically,” instead of
“Theoretically,” embedded— not only into the hearts of
men, “but also into the very structure of the economic
system under which they live” ? ? ?
Is it too much to ask that a “ Monetary System” which
permits the accumulation of such vast sums of wealth in
the hands of a few men that they have the power to
change this Biblical commandment into one which is by
law engraved into the very statutes of every civilized
nation, and reads,— “Thou Shall Not Kill ” unless thou
first payest a financial profit to thy masters— the “ Money
Changers,”— be forever destroyed, and in its place, that
there be erected a world-wide economic structure which
will take into consideration the fact that many men are
as yet “ but little more than animals,” in their character
development; a system which will therefore no longer pro­
vide a reward for greed and selfishness by supplying the
opportunity for such qualities to profit by a monopolistic
control of the world’s money?
Is it too much to ask that an economic structure be
erected which will take into consideration “ the fact that
human beings are frequently selfish, greedy and cruel”—
and which will therefore make it impossible for men, when
46 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
expressing such qualities,— to harm anyone other than
themselves; a system which will enable men to “ Reap what
they Sow,” and “quickly enough” to soon learn the desir­
ability of sowing “ Generosity” instead of “Selfishness,”
— “Sharing” in place of “ Greed,” and “ Kindness” instead
of “ Cruelty” ?
The “ One and only Reward” which the Sponsors of
The International Institute of Universal Research and Ad­
ministration ask in exchange for the voluntary gift of over
sixty millions of dollars ($60,000,000.) of their personal
resources, and the many years of their lives which they
have devoted to this task, is that the “Profits of War” and
the “ Profits of Planned Depressions,” be forever prevented
from recurring in any nation on this earth.
Our Research Department is well prepared to provide
a proven method by which this result can be immediately
accomplished. It has completed the plans for the early
establishment of a great world-wide and equally owned
“ Universal Service Corporation,” capable of producing
and distributing the necessities and luxuries of life for the
entire human race. A world-wide equally owned co-oper­
ative commercial organization which will, for all time to
come, be powerful enough to stand as a fortress for the
human race, successfully preventing either wars, depres­
sions, unemployment or poverty.
No share in the ownership of such a corporation, other
than that which each member of the entire human race
will receive, is asked or could be accepted under the terms
of its charter by any of the Sponsors or Official Assoc­
iates of The Institute. After many years of ceaseless
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 47
research and preparation, they ask only the privilege of
being permitted to irrefutably prove the wisdom and vital
importance of its immediate world-wide formation.
It should not be difficult to understand why a great
commercial co-operative equally-owned Universal Service
Corporation, capable of producing the requirements of life
for the entire human family is needed, nor why the moneys
of the world must by such means be established on a
basis other than gold or silver, before the human race can
even hope to break its present shackles of war and poverty,
or to prevent its ultimate complete enslavement.
Inasmuch as world-wide war and poverty constitute
the principal sources of profit for those who have for
centuries governed human affairs, mankind can expect
neither peace nor security, until those whom greed and
insane ambition have turned into moral idiots, are no
longer able to control the governments and resources of
our earth, through their possession of large quantities of
“ money.”
The Research Department of The International In­
stitute of Universal Research and Administration, has
developed a type of money which can never be accumu­
lated by any person or group of persons, for it will have
value as currency only for a limited period of time after
the date it is issued, and will possess such value only when
spent by the person for whom it is specifically prepared.
No other type of money will ever overcome war or poverty;
both of which are perpetuated solely for financial gain,
and by those who have enough money to cause depressions
48 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
and financial panics, by their manipulation of the political,
financial and commercial enterprises of the world, and the
influence with which to force any or all of the world’s
various governments into revolutions or wars whenever
they may so desire.
Only a type of “ limited use money,”— the accumu­
lation of which would be of no value to anyone,— can ever
permanently uproot the impulses of greed and mad ambi­
tion; for it has been truly stated that if all of the money
in the world could be divided equally among those who
comprise the human race, over seventy-five per cent
(75% ) of it would,— “ within less than one (1) year,” — be
either in the pockets or completely under the control of
three per cent (3 % ) of the world’s citizens, and the re­
mainder of the human race would again be as poverty-
stricken as it had been before.
If the “ Golden Rule” is to be used as the measure of
men’s relationship with one another, then an economic
system must be established which will protect those who
have not as yet learned how to protect themselves, and
a medium of exchange must be adopted which will protect
the world’s population against “ Greed,” “Selfishness” and
“ Dishonesty,” until such qualities no longer exist in human
nature.
The International Institute of Universal Research and
Administration, during a period of over sixty (60) years,
were quietly but c e a s e l e s s l y engaged in perfecting
plans for the accomplishment of this result, believing that
its success would at the same time, disclose the means by
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 49
which to destroy the strangle-hold of those whom greed
and mad ambition have turned into mankind’s swinish
and depraved “ Money Changers and Masters.”
Intelligent men and women do not place matches,
knives or guns in the hands of those who are known to
be insane, neither should they permit the continuation of
an economic system which breeds greed, selfishness and
insane ambitions in the hearts of men; a competitive pri­
vate profit system which rewards their qualities of selfish­
ness, arrogance and indescribable cruelty, by freely granting
them the power of life or death over their fellow beings,
through encouraging their control of the world's money
and consequently food, clothes, homes, and in fact the
very lives of men; nor a system which makes men forget
there is a God, and instead, rewards those who dream of
becoming gods themselves, and encourages them to seek
the power to send millions of men “tearing at each other’s
throats,” incensed with meaningless hate, planted in the
hearts of the various combatants through the money-con­
trolled mediums of propaganda scattered throughout the
various nations, yet owned and controlled by a single group
of men whom mankind have so richly rewarded with their
money. Possessing the financial power and influence with
which to cause continuous revolutions, wars or depressions
for their profit, the greed of these “ Money Changers”
has become so great, that they no longer feel either pity
or compassion towards the millions of human beings whom
their war machines slaughter, nor the slightest concern
over the tens of millions of grief-stricken, broken hearts
and broken lives, which their money-mad ambitions have
50 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
caused. Insane lust for money soon becomes their god,
and constitutes the only feeling they know.
To dethrone “ the god of this world” nurtured by a
private profit system which has caused literally all of the
wars and most of the poverty suffered by the human race,
and to place in its stead a world-wide system of production
and distribution, with the “ Golden Rule” as its corner­
stone,— with guaranteed lifelong financial independence for
all, and permanent universal security and peace as its
structure,— this is the sole purpose for which our Research
Department was formed and the result which it is now
endeavoring to accomplish.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 51
CHAPTER III.
THE INTERNATIONAL LEGION OF VIGILANTES
A N D
THE LEADERSHIP OF ETERNAL RIGHT IDEAS
For countless centuries men have accepted or have
rejected a new idea,— not from the standpoint of whether
the “ Idea” was good or bad, but from the wholly unin­
telligent and idiotically illogical basis, of whether they have
or have not liked the one who presented it. If such a
one is a member of their profession, their lodge, or their
church, and if he is as tall or as short, as stout or as slender
as they may prefer; and if the sound of his voice is
pleasant and the color of his eyes attractive, then of course
the idea he is presenting must be all right, and so from
this profound basis of judgment,— they accept it. There is
but little thought given as to whether the “Idea” itself is
“ Right” or “ W rong,”— “ Good” or “ Bad,” since human
personality has constituted the major factor in its consider­
ation.
However, if the one who seeks to present a plan or
an idea to a group of men, does not happen to “ Belong,”
or if such men do not like the way he combs his hair,
there is but little chance that they will even take the time
to listen to his idea.
After spending over sixty years of time,— more than
sixty millions of dollars ($60,000,000.00)— and (in the
52 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
case of a number of the members) virtually a lifetime in
testing and demonstrating irrefutably and conclusively
each and every one of their discoveries,— The Sponsors of
The International Institute of Universal Research and A d­
ministration have had no intention of giving any person
or group of persons, the opportunity of judging their pro­
gram for the establishment of a much needed new world­
wide economic system, from the standpoint of the color of
its Sponsors’ hair.
Three plus three equals six, and is just as true and just
as useful in the working out of a mathematical problem
when stated by a “ tall man,” as it is when stated by a
“ short one.”
It is high time those of us who think that we are intel­
ligent creatures, started using the priceless faculties of
“ Reason and Independence of Thought ” with which we
have been divinely endowed. It is high time that we
learned to “ judge righteously and justly,” and when an
idea is presented for our consideration, that we judge its
value by whether we think it is good or bad, right or
wrong, and not by whether we like or dislike the person­
ality of its sponsors, or the method of its presentation.
Therefore, due to the previously described necessity of
keeping the headquarters of The Institute and the identi­
ties of its Sponsors permanently unknown, and of the
further desirability and wisdom of having its program and
recommendations judged entirely upon their merits, a plan
was finally adopted which complies with both of these re­
quirements, and which will be able to win the requisite
approval and support of the two hundred million
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 1i
(200,000,000) intelligent, right-thinking men and women,
who will comprise our world-wide audience.
By the year 1919, our Research Department had
learned that there was but “ One Solution” to mankind’s
age-old problems of war and poverty, and that the con­
certed action of not less than two hundred million
(200,000,000) people would be required for the successful
application of this One and Only Solution. They had
learned that The Institute’s Sponsors and their organiz­
ation’s headquarters must remain permanently unknown or
this plan could not possibly succeed. “The only leaders
the world could ever be allowed to know, would have to
consist of the Institute’s ideas and ideals.”
Towards the end of the year 1919, the first steps in
the accomplishment of these results were taken. It was
decided that some hundreds of young men and women
would be chosen from all parts of the world, representing
each of the major nationalities and racial groups, each of
the agricultural, industrial, professional, vocational and
cultural groups, and that they would be selected only after
they had proven their sincere desire to serve mankind.
These young men and women, chosen for their qualities
of morality, integrity, courage, industry, perseverance,
education and intelligence, would be invited to undergo a
fifteen year part-time course of instruction under the
supervision of the various members of The Institute’s Re­
search Department. Before being accepted they would
each be shown a number of the Research Department’s
discoveries, to assist them in forming what would be the
most vital decision of their entire lives. They would then
54 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
be offered the opportunity of participating,— as a member
of The International Legion of Vigilantes,— in the consum-
mation of The Institute's program. Provided however,
that in consideration of the privilege of instruction and
the opportunity of directly participating in this great world
program, that they would sign a contract of which the
following is a partial outline:
1st. To the best of their understanding and ability,
to obey the Golden Rule in their relationships with their
brother man, and to ceaselessly strive to benefit all man­
kind, irrespective of race, color, religion, education, train­
ing or ability;
2nd. To never reveal their association with The
International Institute of Universal Research and Admin­
istration, nor to ever attempt to discover the identity of
any member thereof (nor to ever seek such information)
without the personal authorization of the director in charge
of their instruction. Should one’s affiliation become known,
even to the members of that one’s own family, without
such previous authorization, or under circumstances beyond
his control, he would immediately sever any and all direct
relationship with the activities of The Institute;
3rd. To obey without question or delay, any and all
orders received from one’s director, even though one might
thereby jeopardize his freedom or life, provided however,
that such orders in no way conflict with Christ Jesus’ Ser­
mon on The Mount, The Ten Commandments as written
in the King James version of the Old Testament, nor the
established laws of any nation which grants its citizens
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 5J
the privileges of free speech and the rights of peaceable
assembly;
4th. To neither use, nor purchase for the use of
others, any intoxicating liquors, opium, or any form of
dope, nor to use any food or drug or indulge in any action
which might even temporarily deprive one of the full and
unimpaired use of his mental faculties;
5th. To serve The Research and Administrative
Departments of The International Institute of Universal
Research and Administration, to the best of one’s talents
and abilities, throughout one’s lifetime, without either
financial remuneration or monetary profit of any kind
whatsoever. T o freely render such service in behalf of
the human race, that peace and joy might some day erase
the age-old signs of suffering and privation, from the fear-
lined faces of the world’s starving and homeless millions;
6th. When the order is publicly released announcing
the program of The International Institute of Universal
Research and Administration, to thereafter ceaselessly
strive to direct the thoughts of those to whom the program
is presented,— not to one’s official position, importance or
personality,— but wholly to the value of The Institute’s
program, and to the eternal and unchanging dependability
of the leadership of “ Constructive Ideas,” based upon the
“ Golden Rule” and equality of economic security for all.
To ceaselessly strive to prove to mankind the wisdom of
selecting such ideas as the only solid or safe foundation
upon which to build a new world-wide economic system
and to do so in order that the value of useful and con-
56 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
structive ideas may thereby he recognized as a more de­
pendable type of leadership to support and to follow, than
the constantly changing, and seldom dependable qualities
of human personality, “ which are here for a day and have
gone on the morrow.”
These vows together with a number of similar and
irrevocable pledges, constituted the conditions under which
some hundreds of deeply sincere young men and women
were selected from the world’s various civilized nations,
and accepted as co-workers by the members of The Instit­
ute’s Research and Administration Department.
Before the end of the year 1936, the beneficial influ'
ence of this International Legion of Vigilantes was
recognized and willingly accepted by many of the clear-
thinking men and women of every nation. Although but
few of its members will ever be known to the public,—
due to the hazard of revealing their identities and the ob­
structions which would thereafter be invariably placed in
their way by subversive influences,— nevertheless, their
efforts will be increasingly felt through the avenues of
world newspapers, magazines, radio broadcasts, moving
pictures, pulpits, and lecture platforms. The world will
never know the identity of the individuals “primarily re­
sponsible” for the dissemination of the many warnings
and recommendations publicly promulgated through such
avenues, but the effort of preparing the thoughts of man­
kind for The Institute’s thirty (30) day program, will
ceaselessly be going forward. Their ideals,— frequently
voiced by ministers, lecturers and writers, who are un­
knowingly repeating ideas originally released to the world
M A N K I N D U N I T E D n
by The Institute's Legion of Vigilantes,— are rapidly pre­
paring public thought for The Institute’s inspiring, “ War
and Poverty-destroying,"— revolutionary proclamation and
30-day program.
During the years since 1919 the members of The
International Legion of Vigilantes have not only been ob­
liged to remain entirely unknown to one another, but they
have likewise never been permitted to know the identity
of any member of The Institute’s Research Department.
Though trained to recognize certain symbols of identifi­
cation, which would enable them to know that the one
from whom they receive their orders and instructions is
fully empowered and authorized to act directly for The
Institute, nevertheless, neither the voice nor the physical
features of such an individual have ever been known to
any member of the Vigilantes. The v o i c e and
features of each of the Vigilantes are, of course, familiar
to the various members of The Institute,— who have given
them their instructions and orders since the year 1919
. . . however, these directors will never be privileged
to reveal their own identities in connection with the activi­
ties of The Institute to any of their Vigilante co-workers.
An insistence upon these extreme precautions has been
necessary in order that even under the influences of tor­
ture, no member could ever be made to reveal the identity
of any official or other direct associate of The International
Institute of Universal Research and Administration, or of
The International Legion of Vigilantes.
The Pacific Coast Division of North America, is the
only branch of The Institute’s organization which is author-
58 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
ized to publish information of any kind whatsoever, relative
to either The Institute or its Vigilantes. This branch is
operated under the name of The International Registration
Bureau, and any printed or written statements not eman­
ating from such Pacific Coast Division, and duly copy­
righted under the Laws of The United States of America,
are wholly unauthorized and spurious.
Although many hundreds of The Institute’s Vigilantes
have been c e a s e l e s s l y active since the year 1919,
— and will continue so until the conclusion of the 30-day
proclamation and official program,— the majority of them
are none-the-less obliged to withhold any acknowledg­
ment of their official association with either The Institute
or its program, both before and after its consummation.
In no other way can the danger of “ personality leader­
ship” be permanently avoided. In no other way will The
Institute’s “Ideas and Ideals” be accepted by the public as
the only lastingly dependable form of leadership, and that
which they should support and work for, rather than the
human personality of some individual — be he ever so
worthy— who may be here today for men to follow, but
gone by tomorrow.
Three plus three equaled six a million years ago, and
it will still equal six a million years from now. True ideas
never change and never leave us, they are always here for
us to act upon, but people whom we are willing to work
for and follow frequently annul the effects of our efforts
and sacrifices when they pass on, whereas the efforts we
expend to promulgate or advance a constructive idea are
lasting and do not lose their beneficial effect when some
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 59
human being passes on. If mankind had worked for the
world’s acceptance of good and constructive ideas such as
the Golden Rule— Unity of Action for the equal benefit
of all etc., instead of striving to help some human being
to develop power or influence which would largely disap-
pear within a few weeks after he passed on,— this world
would by now have almost become the Heaven which
Christ Jesus tried to teach mankind is here and at hand,
whenever men will learn to live together as brothers
instead of like wolves, and will strive for the universal
adoption of right ideas of human relationship instead of
the glorification of human personalities.
The “ Golden Rule” and all for which it stands, will
be indestructibly blended into the structure and charter of
the great co-operative corporation which will be formed
by a world-wide vote of acceptance at the conclusion of
The Institute’s 30-day program. The eternally good,—and
by agreement— permanendy unchangeable nature of a
charter and set of by-laws irrevocably wedded to the
Golden Rule and the great universal and changeless laws
of God,— to which Christ Jesus referred in His teachings
which men have named “ The Sermon on the Mount,”—
constitute the “ One and Only Form of Leadership” which
will ever bring war and poverty to an end in the lives of
men.
This great co-operatively owned Universal Service
Corporation will have its officials and executives, and its
Board of Directors selected for office on the basis of their
talents and unselfish desires to serve mankind, and not
because of favoritism or the fact that they may be relatives
60 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
or friends of some other official or director. Nor will those
who become officials through the majority vote of the
employees and of their associate workers, ever be granted
the power to alter the corporation’s charter or policy of
relationship with the public and its members or employees.
The men and women who will be invited by formal vote
to become the members of an executive board, will occupy
such positions, not for personal gain, power or self-glori­
fication, but solely for the purpose of officially directing the
production and distribution of the necessities and luxuries
of human life,— together with the numerous educational
and benevolent activities of this world-wide Universal
Service Corporation, in behalf of the human race. Inas­
much as their share of its products and benefits will be
no greater than even the most lowly employee, there will
be no jealousy o f them, although it will of course be con­
sidered an honor to have attained to such a position of
service. Through the adoption of an unalterable feature
of the proposed corporation charter, no one will be per­
mitted to occupy any official or honorary position longer
than three years. This ruling will not only provide all
capable workers with an opportunity to occupy the most
desirable positions, but through such rotation in office, it
will also prevent envy, jealousy, or the feelings of super­
iority or self-importance, which frequently arise when one
is in charge of others who will never be able to advance
as far as such a one.
The task of inviting some two hundred million
(200,000,000) of the intelligently industrious and clear-
thinking men and women of the principal civilized nations,
to indicate their interest in the release of The Institute’s
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 61
free 30-day program, and the establishment of its Inter­
national Corporation, has been,— without hope of financial
remuneration or public recognition of any kind whatso­
ever,— willingly accepted by each unit of the world-wide
membership of The International Legion of Vigilantes.
These men and women who have given generously
and unstintingly of their time— since the year 1919— to
what has frequently been a most hazardous form of public
service, will never receive either the slightest advantage
of salary or position, when they later apply,— unknown as
Vigilantes,— to the Corporation’s publicly elected Boards
of Examiners for a position to which they may believe
their capabilities or talents qualify them. Each of these
men and women, during the year 1919, waived any and
all advantages which might normally be expected to ac­
crue to them in recognition of such services as they have
rendered. It was the desire to serve mankind which con­
stituted the sole motive of their original acceptance of
The Institute’s offer to instruct them in its program, and
they are willing in this most severe manner to remain un­
known, and thereby prove the sincerity of their purpose.
That the world may be given at least a slight concept
of what these vows of service have cost those who made
them, and that a fuller appreciation of the vitally impor­
tant and “Unselfed Service-inspiring Nature” of The
Institute’s program may be universally recognized, this
data is p u b l i s h e d as a living testimony to the fact
that each of the hundreds of men and women who made
such vows, would willingly do so again, even though they
now know and have felt the full weight of the sacrifices
which have resulted therefrom.
62 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
That they might aid in bringing to fulfillment the
vision of a world in which there would be no more wars,
— no more poverty,— no more starving and broken-spirited
men, women and little children, the members of The Inter­
national Legion of Vigilantes, (The Institute's co-workers),
have willingly and without complaint or regret sacrificed
what the world would term the youthful and most highly-
prized years of their lives.
That there might be no more fear-filled, tear-stained
faces, or broken hearts from the age-old curses of man­
made wars and poverty, these young men and women
since the year 1919 have devoted their S a t u r d a y
afternoons, their Sundays, holidays and vacation periods,
as well as all other leisure hours, in ceaseless study and
preparation for the various responsibilities they will be ex­
pected to assume during The Institute’s 30-day program
of public proclamations.
During these past many years they have each had
but one vacation period of less than ten (10) days’ time.
They have also been allowed an average of but three
Saturday or Sunday afternoons each year, for their own
use. The remainder of their time, when not engaged in
their respective vocations or professions, has been freely
given to assist The Research Department of The Institute,
and to receive their necessary instructions and training.
Without compensation,— or any privilege in the future
of ever receiving either financial rewards, expressions of
public recognition or any personal forms of appreciation,
these young people have voluntarily denied themselves
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 63
not only their leisure hours, but also the joys of either
a home or a family. The world has had to be their home,
and its millions of starving, fear-filled homeless little child­
ren,— their children.
The world’s citizens will be asked to make no such
sacrifices, nor to subject themselves to either danger or
self-denial, “but they ‘ARE’ asked for their moral support,”
good will and encouragement, by carefully and under-
s t a n d i n g l y studying these pages, and following the
all-important r e c o m m e n d a t i o n s and instructions
they contain. Only when this has been done, and when
The Institute’s Sponsors are assured by its Vigilantes,
that at least two hundred million (200,000,000) clear-
thinking men and women have received its warnings, and
an invitation to attend its 30 days of free, simultaneously-
released, world-wide proclamations, can the Research
Department safely disclose its discoveries to the human
race, or present its program for the establishment of a
great, equally-owned, profit-sharing Universal Service Cor­
poration, for a world-wide vote of acceptance or rejection.
Any plan of procedure which did not have such an as­
surance of simultaneous world-wide attention, and an organ­
ization consisting of a sufficient number of people to protect
and immediately apply its recommendations through the
concerted action of not less than two hundred million
(200,000,000) individuals,— and “ in all parts of the world
simultaneously”— would, through lack of sufficient strength
or influence, be doomed to certain destruction by those
who control the world’s financial structure.
64 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
W e ask, therefore, only the assurance of public atten­
tion during a 30-day period,— the dates of which will be
internationally announced in the manner described in the
concluding chapters hereof;— and at the end of said
30-day program, that you cast your vote either for or
against The Institute’s recommendations in accordance with
your own individual and unbiased judgment.
In recognition of the adage that “ Like attracts like"
The Institute’s various co-workers have— since the year
1919— been preparing to organize and draw around them,
groups of people who would understand and appreciate
similar ideals, and be motivated by aspirations similar to
their own. Certain aspects of our program have been
gradually imparted to these groups in preparation for the
time when Our Research Department, during its inter­
national 30-day proclamation, would neutralize the effect
of the war of extermination which is planned— by the
world’s W ar Lords and its Hidden Rulers— to bring about
the slaughter of four hundred million (400,000,000)
educated and religious people. The consummation of
this plot can only be thwarted by the concerted action
of not less than two hundred million (200,000,000) un­
selfish, intelligent, and clear-thinking men and women.
However, it is believed that the present influence of the Institute
will succeed in temporarily delaying this orgy of wholesale
murder.
Although most of The Institute’s preliminarily-formed
organizations and groups of people, have not been made
aware of the fact that the ideals they have had described
to them,— or in other instances, the warnings they have
received,— emanate from the Research Staff of The Inter­
national Institute of Universal Research and Administra-
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 65
tion,— nor have they even been made aware of the fact
that there is such a research bureau in existence,— never-
theless, their thoughts are being gradually prepared through
many avenues today, such as newspapers, books, maga­
zines, radio broadcasts, moving pictures, pulpits and lec­
ture platforms, in order that they may be unprejudiced
and receptive at such a time as The Institute’s sixty (60)
years of investigations, discoveries and revolutionary mech­
anical inventions, are offered to the world.
Many of Our Research Department’s discoveries are
so startling, that human indignation over the atrocities of
greed, selfishness and bestiality, in the lives of those whom
the human race has looked to for leadership, will cause
the world’s intelligently industrious and right-thinking
men and women to raise their voices in one mighty world­
wide demand for a new medium of currency, and the
destruction of a monetary system which makes men into
swinish monsters. They will demand that those who up­
hold “ Man’s inhumanity to man,” be no longer allowed to
dictate either the world’s financial, industrial, political or
educational policies, nor allowed to perpetuate poverty in
a world of plenty, and the wholesale slaughter, century
after century, of millions upon millions of human beings
in revolutions and wars, planned and executed solely for
the profit of those who barter in human suffering, that
they may thereby add to their power or wealth.
66 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 67
CHAPTER IV.
UNIVERSAL
SECURITY, PEACE A N D HAPPINESS
VERSUS
POVERTY, FEAR A N D W A R
W e all desire happiness,— nor do we begrudge the
fulfillment of this desire in the life of any other person
— therefore, why should we not help each other to find
security, peace and happiness? W hy should we not stand
together,— “ One for All and All for One” ?
Since none of us would want anyone or anything to
stand in our pathway and obstruct or prevent our hap­
piness; nor have any right-thinking men or women the
slightest desire to interfere with the happiness or joy of
others,— and since these two correlated statements are in­
disputably true when applied to the lives and thoughts of
any group of people in any country on the face of this
globe,— W hy then is it also true that so few of us have
ever felt securely happy? W hy is it that envy, jealousy,
hate, bloodshed and war, are observed all about us as the
indications of experiences in the lives of everyone, and
that these conditions exist today, literally as unabated as
they have throughout untold centuries of human life?
W hy is there so much lack and why such ceaseless fear
of losing what little we have?
68 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
The Research Department of The International In­
stitute of Universal Research and Administration is pre­
pared to prove that the causes which bring about insecurity,
and racial, religious, and class antagonisms, are not the
inevitable concomitants of evolution, nor an accidental
result, but the plans and purposefully directed plots and
programs of those motivated by the desire for power and
financial gain, “ and who are not the slightest bit concerned
about how they accomplish their ends.”
Were it not for the “ Planned Perpetuation of An­
tagonisms,” causing constant division among the people
of various groups, we would by now be living in a world
populated by men and women doing their fair share of
the world’s work, and earning the right,— and thereby
worthy,— of sharing with fair equality, its inexhaustible
and diversified abundance and loveliness. Man would no
longer be a creature of lustful enslaving habits and ap­
petites, nor in bondage to superstitions, unprovable beliefs
or undemonstrable creeds. Men would be obeying the
“ Golden Rule”— not from compulsion but from desire—
instead of merely theorizing and preaching about it. They
would be thinking, speaking and living, in a clean intel­
ligent, unselfish and kindly manner. Man, loving good
more than evil, and assured of the right to develop his
talents and constructive abilities, would be worthy of
trust, and a law unto himself— free— joyous— and forever
unconfined and unlimited.
W e have no desire to injure or kill you, nor to cross
the oceans to some foreign nation and kill people we have
never even seen; people who individually could not,— by
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 69
the wildest stretch of imagination,— have done anything
to harm us. Only collectively could they affect us ad'
versely or injure us, and then only after they had been
organized and incensed to thoughts of fear, hate or envy,
by the lying tongue of propaganda,— stimulated and made
to utter its lies by some one person, or some small group
of persons filled with the lust for power, glory or wealth.
Only then can people be made,— (through the mesmeric
and hypnotic influence upon their emotions of subtle pro-
paganda),— to desire or want to kill men whom they have
never even seen. Only by being influenced into believing
that we might lose the few crumbs of security or hap'
piness,— patronizingly granted to us by the small group of
families who unlawfully control the wealth and power
of this globe,— could any of us be persuaded into going
out and killing another human being— no matter what his
nationality or color might be— English, African, Chinese;
— white, black or yellow.
It has required centuries of progress for mankind to
reach the place where it is now possible to communicate
with a large enough number of people, during any one
century, to build up a force of sufficient potency to over­
come greed and the lust for power, which have, during
countless centuries, been the principal causes of poverty,
envy, jealousy, hatred, murder and war. These selfishly
perpetuated experiences and qualities of thought make
security or happiness utterly impossible of attainment in
the life of any human being, whether he be rich or poor.
You will readily recognize as your own the ideas we
are going to present to your thought, and we therefore
70 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
suggest that you spend no more time or years in “ wishing,
only,”— since the world has now reached an age of en­
lightenment, and has developed facilities for intercommun­
ication, which make it possible to immediately put man­
kind’s universal ideas of freedom into effect. The fulfill­
ment of these desires can be brought to pass with such a
small amount of co-operation, that the world's right-
thinking men and women need no longer delay, even one
day, in taking the necessary steps for their accomplish­
ment.
It is not vast wealth, power, glory, nor the unsub­
stantial elements of flattery, that mankind seek. All any
normal men or women desire, is freedom to do the things
which appear to their thought as worthy of effort, and to
have the facilities with which to develop natural talents
and express “ normal” ambitions. No one, until falsely
trained to desire such things, asks for great wealth or
power, but only for assured security, peace and financial
independence. It is not for purposes of luxurious living
that the average human being desires financial independ­
ence, but primarily, in order that opportunities for con­
structive self-expression might thereby be made more
readily available.
Man is never a glutton or a beast, unless he has be­
come the creature of enslaving appetites and educated
desires cunningly encouraged by influences which profit
from such weaknesses.
To love Life, and “ to Live” and “ to let Live,” is as
natural an impulse of our thought as it is to breathe, unless
one’s mentality has been warped by an environment, such
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 71
as need no longer exist on this earth.
Now let us see whether we can, individually as well
as collectively, obtain happiness— permanent security—
peace— and financial independence, right here in this
present world, without any new discoveries,— (other than
those which already exist),— being added to our civilization.
Five hundred million (500,000,000) people are always
hungry, and thirty million (30,000,000) of them die each
year from lack of food, and yet it has been said, and proofs
are readily available,— that enough food could be raised
within a “ten-year” period, to feed the population of our
entire world for over one hundred (100) years, without
any further harvesting of crops or other production of
food, if mankind desired to use the present machinery,
inventions, and available executive ability, for the accomp­
lishment of such a result.
Millions of men, women and little children die an­
nually from extreme exposure, due to lack of warm clothes,
and yet, enough clothing materials could be produced with­
in a ten (10) year period to clothe the entire human race
for the rest of this century.
Over one thousand million (1000,000,000) people on
our planet,— (one-half of its total population),— have no
habitations of their own which they can call their home,
yet we claim that there is a great world depression and
not enough work for the trained workers of our civil­
ized nations to perform, and that therefore, hundreds of
millions of industrious and intelligent men and women
must remain idle.
72 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
With hundreds of millions of people starving, freez­
ing to death and homeless, mankind must wait while the
world’s “Swinish Money Changers,” — motivated solely by
greed, and indescribable selfishness, stop to figure out just
how they can succeed in making men continue to work for
the private profit system which they control; a system of
“ Greed” and “Selfishness,” which has been perpetuated
century after century, for the exploitation of human beings,
and which should have been completely destroyed long
ages ago.
Is it the purpose of life to build machines, cannons
and battleships, accumulate money, and construct vast
office buildings,— where the Midases may count their gold,
— or should the object of life consist in seeking wisdom
and happiness? Where did we come from?— W hy are we
here?— Where are we going? Are not these questions
of more importance to each of us than the creating of
piles of gold to pour into the laps of a small handful of
people who cannot possibly ever take such wealth with
them when they leave us, and yet, which— after they are
gone— always starts the endless struggle all over again,
to see who shall possess it?
Is it not right that we each should have our lives to
use as we may choose, so long as we harm no one? Should
we not be seeking wisdom and happiness, instead of lifeless
money and unsatisfying self-glorification?
The two hundred million (200,000,000) people whom
we herein invite to learn how they may form an equally
owned and “ Universal” service corporation, are at this
time spending an average of over one thousand million
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 73
($1000,000,000) dollars per day. If they have the courage,
wisdom and vision to combine their buying power, they
can readily own the world’s principal resources of raw
materials, from which are produced food, clothes, homes
and other necessities of life (as well as its luxuries) and
thereafter they will have the power to permanently pre­
vent such requirements of human life from ever again
being exploited for private profit. There is no other way
on this earth, to stop wars or to eliminate poverty.
The Private Profit System controlled by those who
use the world’s resources and its man power for the pro­
duction of their luxurious pleasures, is wholly dependent
upon “ the demand always exceeding the supply,” for in
no other way can a profit be collected.
W hen supply exceeds demand, those who control its
sources are glad to get whatever people will pay, but when
demand exceeds supply and, for instance, two people want
exactly the same article of which there is only enough for
one, they will then bid against each other, and if they want
it badly enough, will keep on bidding until they pay a
thousand times or ten thousand times what it actually
cost to produce; but the reverse is also true: When those
in control of a large quantity of some article,— the supply
of which exceeds the demand, — desire to sell, they
have to go out bidding for buyers. If they can’t get
people to buy at one price, then they offer their merchan­
dise at a still lower price, and keep on lowering the price
until someone agrees to buy. Hence, anyone who desires
to make a profit on the sources of supply he may control,
is of necessity forced to curtail his production so as to never
74 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
release enough to satisfy everyone, or in other words, so
that there will always be a surplus of buyers unable to get
what he is producing;— always someone to bid a higher
price and start the others bidding, so that even after they
have paid many times the article’s value they will feel
fortunate in having obtained it at any price,— due to its
“ supposed (? )” scarcity.
This basic formula upon which the “Private Profit
System” is perpetuated century after century, is readily
understood, when we consider the prices paid for rare
paintings. If a famous artist has passed on, and the number
of his paintings can never again be increased, people begin
wanting what they can no longer get, and they offer those
who own the paintings, more money than they paid for
them; and then some one else thinks he wants them and
he offers still more. Finally people begin to think that the
paintings, “Themselves,” must possess some great inherent
value of their own, when actually, the demand has been
created largely because of* the fact that the quantity can
never be increased. “ It isn’t the paintings they pay for
but only the privilege of having control of them.”
In accordance with the “Money Changers’ ” formula,
—that the supply of any necessary article must never be
permitted to equal the demand,— we find that during the
past few years they have r e g u l a r l y used the influ-
ences which their vast accumulations of gold and silver
. enable them to wield, to bring about the destruction of
millions of acres of wheat and cotton crops, tens of millions
of cattle, and countless millions of tons of other necessary
or desirable requirements of human life, in order that they
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 75
might thereby force the demand to a point so far beyond
the available supplies of necessities or luxuries, that they
would have no difficulty in obtaining whatever profits they
might desire through their control over the principal com­
mercial avenues of production and distribution.
The fact that five hundred million (500,000,000) other
human beings will go hungry each day, and that thirty
million (30,000,000) of them will starve to death during
the following twelve (12) months, is of no concern to these
captains of finance. Theirs is a business of making profits,
and as long as they can make more money from human
beings who are suffering and in need, than they can from
those who are secure, peaceful and happy,— mankind may
rest assured that just so long as gold and silver can con­
trol the destinies of men, no improvement in our economic
or political systems which might provide a guarantee of
security and happiness to the inhabitants of our world,
will ever be brought to pass.
Only through the universal adoption of a medium of
exchange based on “Service” rather than on “ Gold or Sil­
ver,” will mankind ever succeed in destroying the swinishly
perpetuated spectacle of the wholesale destruction of food
and other necessities of life, which is permitted to take
place before the very eyes of tortured starving human be­
ings.
To make our world into a garden spot, ever more
beautiful as a home for the human race,— to add to the
sum total of human happiness, and not just seek what we
would individually like to possess, (without consideration
for others ), but instead, to apply “the Golden Rule” of
76 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
“'One for All and All for One”-
—as a real desire within
our hearts, and not merely words emanating from our lips,
is the only ambition truly worthy of intelligent creatures.
Man cannot point to a time since the beginning of
human history when there has not existed, somewhere
on the globe, a greater abundance of those things which
are necessary or desirable for his use, than he could pos­
sibly exhaust. However, it has been less than one hundred
(100) years since men have awakened to a sufficient degree
of comprehension and discernment, to recognize the “in­
finite abundance” of good which has always been available
for their welfare here on earth.
Only by the intelligent application of new ideas, have
men discovered ways and means of using a few of the
materials which the earth contains in such limitless abund­
ance and variety. The good ideas, which they have wel­
comed and acted upon, now enable them to communicate
almost instantly with one another in any part of the globe.
By the use of “ right ideas,” — at the rate men have proven
their ability to abridge distances during the past twenty-
five (25) years,— it is not improbable, that at a not far
distant date, men will be able to travel to any part of the
world between sunrise and sunset of a single day.
Mankind should therefore no longer be mesmerized
by the belief that they are made up of many disconnected
links, nationalities, classes or families, but they should now
recognize the fact that they are, after all, just one family
— “The Human Family.” W hy then, should they not be­
come “Mankind United” ? The result of world-wide co-
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 77
operation, and of such internationally united efforts, would
soon be “ Mankind Unlimited.”
Considering the inexhaustible abundance of the earth’s
resources, and mankind’s present ability to rapidly transport
those things which constitute a surplus in one locality,
to points where there may seem to be a lack, it is high
time that “Mankind United” in order that they might share
each other’s surplus products, and thereby each enjoy a
wider variety of the good things which our earth so abund-
antly produces.
There never has been, and there never will be, an
actual economic cause or reason for the existence of a
world-wide condition of poverty— or reasons for men to
wage war among themselves, inasmuch as an abundance
of everything essential to man’s welfare has always existed
upon this globe. The proof of this statement is a fact
which no one can deny;— namely, that all of the materials
which enter into our telephones, radios, airplanes, automo­
biles, or any other present-day invention,— have been here
on this earth throughout countless millions of years waiting
for man to use them. Limitless resources and power are
always available whenever men are willing to stop fighting
among themselves and devote their thoughts and efforts
towards the discovery of the blessings which our Creator
has placed here for our use; resources in such vast abund­
ance, that men need never fight over which one should
have the most, for there is more than mankind can use
during a period of millions of years.
There never has been and never can be any reason, due
to a difference in the fundamental needs or desires of
78 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
human beings, nor to a lack of materials for food,
shelter,— or any other requirement for man’s we
which could constitute any legitimate cause for the
lishment of antagonistic forms of government, or se]
owned sources of supply, or separately owned facili
manufacturing or producing mankind’s necessities oi
ies of life.
:lothes,
fare,—
estab-
larately
ties for
luxur-
There is not now, nor could there ever have oeen in
the history of man, a period when the intelligent applica­
tion of “The Golden Rule” in all human activities and rela­
tionships, could not have solved every spiritual, moral, or
physical requirement of man. The natural results and
effects of brotherly love, and a consequent unshakable trust
and confidence in one another, would have uprooted the
causes of poverty and war centuries ago, had men applied
“ The Golden Rule” in their “ economic relationships,” as
constantly as they have referred to it in their philos ophical
discussions with one another.
Merely because our ancestors failed to discern the prac­
tical and economic, as well as idealistic desirability of uni­
versal brotherly love (which would long centuries ago have
resulted in the destruction of class distinctions— national
boundary lines and racial antagonisms) — and mei ely be­
cause they preferred to go out and commit murder, and
then after stealing the possessions of their weaker brothers,
to evolve a rule of conduct which they called “ The Law of
the Survival of the Fittest” does not justify us in perpet­
uating such a rule.
The world was not formed “solely” for the use of
“ swine,” nor solely for the use of human beings who sub-
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 79
scribe to “ swinish” humanly promulgated rules of conduct
worthy only of hogs.
Our Research Department claims that wars, poverty,
and most of the disappointments, broken hearts and broken
lives of mankind, can be avoided by co-ordinating the
combined “demonstrable” wisdom, ideas and efforts, of
each member of the human family with all others, and
distributing the total products thereof, “ equally” among
the members of the entire human race,— granting none
the privilege of attaining to a degree of power or influence
sufficiently great to injure his fellows,— should greed or
selfishness gain control of such a one’s thoughts.
W e believe that all men, women and children, of every
nation, should have the privilege of developing their talents
for their own as well as for the world’s advancement,
and the equal use of whatever they might desire of the
earth’s resources of a constructive nature, for their own
individual happiness. The same size salary check for every
man and woman on this planet constitutes the only method
by which such a “ greatly to be desired” result could possibly
be brought to pass.
80 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 81
CHAPTER V.
THE GOLDEN RULE— OR— THE RULE OF GOLD
W H ICH SHALL IT BE
?
Just as long as a type of money is in use which can
be accumulated in such vast quantities that those who
control it are able to dictate to the governments and the
peoples of the earth, and to make or break them at will;
and as long as human nature is such that a taste of great
power or great wealth frequently develops a ceaseless
craving for more,— until the time comes when such people
have grown so insanely ambitious that they have reached
the stage which can only be described as “ moral idiocy;”
— it is wholly illogical, and— were it not such a tragedy—
even rather ridiculous, to place beautifully couched peti'
tions in their hands, which plead with these monstrosities
of greed for reduced armaments,— round-table discussions,
(instead of war),— old-age pensions, social security and
other similarly worthy desires in the hearts of sane, right-
thinking men and women.
Knowing that the political structures of every nation
can always be controlled— either by methods of intimida­
tion, bribery, flattery or assassination— by those with suf­
ficient money to accomplish such results;— knowing that
vast quantities of gold and silver now rest in the hands
82 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
nd
till
of a small group of men who desire more wars a
poverty, that they may, thereby,— through the r
tions of cheap labor or the sale of armaments
merchandise for the slaughter of human life— not
to the contents of their already over-flowing
chests, but also bring about mankind’s complete
ment;— knowing that such men have learned me
of propaganda, and so-called mass psychology,
which to control the activities of any groups of p
<
which have ever, or will,— (under our preseni
profit competitive system),— ever be elected to
knowing that such men have learned more ways a:
of controlling the actions of politicians and those
public office, than the combined civilian populatic
combined so-called civilized governments of
world could ever hope to learn during hundreds
(through their wholly inadequate and usually
capitalistically or subversively controlled mediums
or sources of information);— knowing all of th(
is it likewise not rather ridiculous that men anc
who call themselves intelligent creatures, should
time to even try to correct conditions through
long petitions to people who are so easily conti
the insanely ambitious maniacs who govern them
might just as well send a request to a rattlesnal
it not to bite him).
Those of us who believe ourselves to be iitelligent
creatures can never expect to permanently improve con­
ditions by merely writing little crosses on long pieces of
paper, which we call “ Ballots,” when— after toss mg these
bundles of ballots around among themselves for their
nd more
lanipula-
or other
only add
treasure
enslave-
re tricks
through
fliticians,
private
office;—
means
vho hold
n of the
e entire
of years,
politically,
of news
se facts,
. women
waste the
sending
oiled by
? (One
:e asking
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 83
amusement,— the world’s “Money Changers” arrange the
actions of the new political administration in any way they
may desire, and with the power and influence of their
money, completely control the new crop of publicly or
politically appointed representatives, with not the slight-
est bit of difficulty, through the use of one or more of
their four methods of control; namely, — intimidation,
bribery, flattery or assassination, which their accumulations
of money enable them to exercise.
Knowing these things, it is high time that those men
and women throughout the world, who desire financial
independence and security, bind themselves together into
the only type of organization which will ever succeed in
directing either the governments or the industries of the
world in behalf of the happiness of its citizens; namely,
a Co-operative, Equally Owned Universal Service Corpor­
ation, capable of producing and distributing the necessities
and luxuries of life for its members, and with its combined
buying power of more than One Thousand Million
($1000,000,000) Dollars per day,— (and the concerted
action of Two Hundred Million (200,000,000) equal
owners),— capable of bringing to pass the international
adoption, through “ Commercial” instead of “Political”
methods, of a type of money which neither any one per­
son nor any group of persons will ever be able to accumu­
late in sufficient quantities to destructively dictate either
the thoughts or the actions of their fellow beings.
Without seeking financial remuneration, public recog­
nition or reward of any nature, the sponsors of The Inter­
national Institute of Universal Research and Administration,
84 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
after many years of thorough preparation, now invite the
world's right-thinking and intelligent citizens :o accept
their proofs of the feasibility of such an accomj lishment.
It has indeed been rightly stated, that “ That which is
every one’s business” is usually “N o one’s business.” Our
Sponsors, many years ago, became aware of the fact that
although all “sane people” desire to end both war and
poverty,— and it is surely the business of every intelligent
person to help do so,— nevertheless, no individual nor
group of individuals with sufficient understanding of these
problems to bring about their solution, had cunsidered
them of sufficient importance to warrant an expenditure
of either the necessary time or money which would be
required before any successful solution could be reached.
Our Sponsors and Executive Board of two hundred men
and women have, for many years, made it “ their business”
to discover a practical plan for ending war and poverty.
They not only have been successful, but of equal import­
ance is the fact that the solution they have evolved is
one which can be applied with inevitable success,— and,
within a period of less than ninety (90) days after its
acceptance by at least two hundred million (200 000,000)
intelligent men and women;— nor will such a:ceptance
require any supreme sacrifices of either time or noney.
Realizing that the power and influence of th
subversive forces,— those who perpetuate both
and poverty,— consist solely of the enormous buyi
which their century-old accumulations of gold £
place in their hands, Our Sponsors soon recogi
fact that it would be necessary to “fight fire w
e world’s
its wars
ag power
nd silver
lized the
ith fire;”
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 85
in other words, to combat the buying power of the world’s
“ Money Changers” “ with a buying power of even greater
potency.”
They knew that one of the principal reasons for the
adoption of plans by the Hidden Rulers, to bring about
the extermination of the world’s educated and religious
peoples, was the fact that such classes of human beings,
— through the avenues of study and the privileges of first-
hand observation which present modes of travel have made
available to them,— have begun to realize that the un­
touched resources of the earth and the unused lands which
could be cultivated for the production of food are so vast,
in variety and extent, that there is not the slightest reason
for anyone being obliged to experience either privation,
poverty, or a life of drudgery. Such educated people are
fully aware of the fact that the earth’s resources are so
abundant that all of the world’s citizens might readily be
enabled to enjoy lives of comparative luxury, and have
ample leisure time for recreation or the development of
individual talents, if each new marvelous discovery and
mechanical invention were used,— not for purposes of
wasteful and destructive forms of competition,— but instead,
for the purposes of production for all mankind, in accor­
dance with each individual's respective needs.
Recognizing the growing discontent of the masses
against needless conditions of poverty and drudgery, and
realizing that unless such of the population, whose edu­
cation had made them discontented, were soon extermin­
ated, they would eventually unite and demand a greater
share of the world’s resources than they had been receiving,
86 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
the Hidden Rulers determined to destroy such people, and
to do so before a demand could be made for the establish-
ment of an economic system which might alter the world's
medium of exchange, from gold and silver to one of a
more equitable nature.
If gold or silver could no longer buy humar labor or
merchandise, such a condition would, for all time to come,
destroy the influence which these “ Money Changers” and
their satellites have for so many centuries enjoyed. To
prevent such a result— which would spell their doom— it
would be necessary not only to slaughter four hundred
million (400,000,000) of the educated and religious classes,
who constitute the group most persistent in their demand
for social equality and justice, but it would also be neces­
sary to destroy the world’s educational and rel gious in­
stitutions, and thereafter prevent their re-establishment ex­
cept on a basis which would destroy the initiative of in­
dividuals, and in its place create a standardized type of
“ mass-thought,” which would force the mentalities of the
human race into a mold capable of shaping their thinking
in accordance with the plans and desires of those who
would then be their rulers.
hai
The slavery which the world’s Hidden Rule:
bring about will be similar to that now experienc
hundreds of millions of people in India, such as
there continuously throughout many thousands
However, there will be even less freedom or op
for mental development. The model towards w
strive, is the one adopted by the aristocracy of I
thousands of years ago; a principle of Governme
s plan to
:d by the
s existed
of years,
portunity
lich they
pdia some
nt which
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 87
has never failed to enable those who practice it, to not
only continuously add to their own personal fortunes, but
also to readily retain their control over the millions of
human beings who thereby permanently become their
slaves.
The enslaving principle of Government to which we
refer, may be briefly described as one which keeps the
masses of people always poverty-stricken and illiterate,
in order that they may thereby be readily influenced
through the avenues of superstition, and fear of the un­
known. W hen millions of people are unable to either
read or write, and when the nameless fears of superstition
are systematically planted in their thoughts century after
century, it is not difficult to sway them into action or
obedience, through either the avenues of fear or intense
hate. Likewise, when tens of millions of people are not
only poverty-stricken or on the verge of starvation, but
are actually dying by the thousands each day, from the
tortures of starvation and exposure, it is not difficult to buy
their labor for little or nothing; inasmuch as they will
literally sell their souls for a piece of bread if they are
constantly kept hungry enough.
The billions upon billions of dollars of wealth in the
form of gold, silver and jewels, retained and added to
century after century by the Rajahs and the wealthy
families of India, have fully proven the security which
such forms of Government bring to those who are wealthy
enough to adopt and consistently perpetuate them. It is
also readily understood why education and the Christian
religion, (the teachings of the Golden Rule and brotherly
love), constitute the only enemies which such rulers fear.
88 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
nd
thi
Because of the disobedience some centuries age
representatives and satellites of those who then ri
peoples of the earth, both the influences of “ edu.
and “the Christian religion” were allowed to start
ing human thought. Ceaseless efforts have sin
made to eradicate these influences, but they have,-
the past few centuries, and particularly during
represented by recent generations,— spread wit
rapidity. They have resulted in such an increase i
anical inventions, and mediums through which to
distance and communicate with great numbers oi
from one central point,— through the use of radio a;
modern means of inter-communication,— that
method left to the world's Hidden Rulers— if the;
succeed in retaining their control over the world
people— is to exterminate all people who are eitb
cated or religious, or whose thoughts have been
and enlightened by either one or both of these
influences. They feel that there is no other soh
their problem, inasmuch as the ever-growing insist
these right-thinking people is rapidly bringing tc
world-wide demand, by hundreds of millions of
dividuals, that the earth’s resources be fully rele;
the equal benefit of all, and that the mechanical in'
of our present civilization be universally used
production and distribution of a greater abunda:
such resources, in order that all— instead of only
of the citizens of our world— may enjoy beautiful
and educational advantages, as well as an abundi:
all of those things which add to the happiness
during their sojourn here on our earth.
broa<
of the
lied the
cation”
leaven-
ce been
—
during
the era
much
1 mech-
abridge
people
other
only
r are to
and its
er edu-
:ouched
dening
ition to
ence of
pass a
uch in-
sed for
yentions
for the
nee of
a few
homes
nee of
of men
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 89
That the world’s Rulers have been at least partly sue-
cessful in preventing the influences of education, religion
and universal financial security, from developing sufficient
strength to bring about their overthrow,— or the establish­
ment of an economic system which would no longer enable
them to retain their control over our world,— is evidenced
by the fact that even today, during our so-called enlight­
ened twentieth-century civilization, an average of one out
of every two people who populate our earth,— in other
words, a total of one thousand million (1000,000,000)
human beings,— are not only still unable to read or write,
but in addition to their illiteracy, the majority of them
are filled with the usual numerous nameless fears which
are so easily planted in the ignorant and superstitious
thoughts of such illiterates.
That the world’s Rulers have likewise been quite suc­
cessful in keeping the masses of people who are located
in the more densely populated parts of the earth, hungry
enough to be willing\to work for little or nothing, is evi­
denced by the fact that right at this time,— and continu­
ously throughout countless centuries,— over five hundred
million (500,000,000) human beings are hungry every day
of their stunted, starved little lives, and over thirty mil­
lions (30,000,000) of such men, women and little children,
die each year; or, in other words, over eighty thousand
(80,000) every twehty-four (24) hours,— over two and
one-half millions dying each month, after experiencing
weeks, months or years of the slow excruciating tortures
of hunger.
90 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
Inasmuch as ignorance and poverty go hand in
— as they are intended to by those who perpetuate
hand,
them.
— we find that the majority of deaths from under-nourish­
ment, starvation and exposure, occur in those nations whose
Rulers have been most successful in perpetuating illiteracy,
ignorance and false superstitious teachings. However,
even in the world’s advanced civilized countries, the in­
fluence of the subversive forces to which we refer, has
been sufficient to constantly obstruct and greatly handicap
education, free speech, and the privileges of "uncontrolled"
religious worship. In fact, the buying power and inf uence
of their money has been so great, that even in this so called
enlightened age, (although they are obliged to spenc. hun­
dreds of millions of dollars each year to accomplish their
purpose), they succeed through the avenues of the news­
papers, magazines, publishing houses, industrial and politi­
cal mediums,— which they either own or control,— in
seriously obstructing most of the educational or religious
teachings which help human beings to become independent,
clear, unbigoted thinkers. Through the avenues we have
just described, they likewise succeed in perpetuating pover­
ty, and preventing mankind’s use of the many marvelous
inventions which have been perfected in spite of ceaseless
obstructions to the progress of education.
By drawing upon their inexhaustible reserves of gold
and silver, these subversive forces have no more difficulty
in buying the control of new inventions and basic patents,
than they experience in maintaining their rule over the
political structures, (be they ever so advanced),— of the
world’s most civilized nations.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 91
W e therefore find that through these dual forms of
control,— added to the weakening influences of the ceaseless
revolutions and wars to which they subject the world’s
so'called civilized peoples,— that even in our most advanced
nations, hundreds of thousands of people die each year
from starvation and exposure.
Even though enlightened thinking has produced count-
less marvelous mechanical inventions,— capable of relieving
humanity almost entirely of the need for human labor
or drudgery,— yet through the ceaseless undermining mone­
tary power of the subversive forces, the limitless abundance
of the necessary or desirable things of life, which could
thereby be so readily made available to all mankind, is not
only withheld from their use, but food and other necessities
of human life are actually destroyed right before men’s
eyes, in order to assure their continued poverty and priva­
tion. W e find, in line with this policy of action, that the
political, agricultural and industrial leaders of the world,
have been readily influenced into destroying millions of
acres of wheat and cotton crops, tens of millions of cattle,
and an incalculable quantity of miscellaneous types of food
and other necessities of life each year for the past few
years, in order that the effect of the world’s recent in­
ventions might be offset and poverty be made to retain
its hold upon the human race.
The influence of “ the Money Changers’ ” publicity and
propaganda disseminating medium is so great, that not
only do we find them able to gain the public’s consent to
a monopolistic control of the world’s most valuable mech-
92 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
anical inventions, and to a wholesale destruction of the
products of such inventions, but also able to accomplish
these results without even one newspaper headline, or other
announcement to the public, ever appearing in any >art of
the civilized world, which might inform the sane and
right-thinking members of the human race that while they
are voting their consent to the wholesale destruction of
food and other necessities of human life,—eighty thousand
(80,000) of the men, women, and children of their own
and other countries, are lying in the gutters of the world
with their stomachs bursting open from starvation.
Eighty thousand (80,000) human beings dying of :tarva-
tion every twenty-four (24) hours, and our leaders not
only succeed in hiding this fact from us, but actually make
us believe they are justified in destroying our foodstuffs
and the products of our factories because of a suj posed
surplus.
Mankind’s Hidden Rulers are fully aware of the fact
that those who have been allowed to “ correctly” learn
the meaning of Christ Jesus’ teachings,— relative tc “ the
Golden Rule” and “ brotherly love” ,— would never permit
such world-wide destruction of food if they knew that an
average of one out of every four of the world’s entire popu­
lation, (in other words over five hundred million people),
suffered from hunger each day, and that over thirty million
of them will die this year,— (as have a like number year
after year for centuries);— yet hardly a word is al[owed
to be spoken from even the church pulpits of the world
nor a headline to appear in any paper, for fear that right-
thinking and generous men and women might thereby
learn of such conditions.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 9J
The reason for such enforced silence on the part of
the sources of information to which the public looks for
enlightenment and guidance, is readily understood when
we realize that with tens of millions of highly-skilled
workers, unemployed and living on government doles,—
(which the employed people of such nations must pay
through numerous avenues of taxation every time they
spend even five cents for a loaf of bread),— and with mil­
lions of unused acres of land and thousands of idle factories,
it is quite evident that the educated, religious and sane
men and women of the world would make such a clamor,
that its echo would be heard to the ends of the earth;—
not only would they demand that such idle workers, idle
factories and idle lands be made to produce the food,
clothes, homes, and normal requirements of human life,
for those who are unemployed, but also for the hundreds
of millions of starving, homeless, unwanted, unloved and
“ truly forgotten” men, women and helpless little children
of “ every land.”
Knowing these things, and knowing that through the
avenues of such of the world's inventions as they have
been unable to control, mankind might in time be informed
of the manner in which they have been duped,— through
their acceptance of the selfishly perpetuated false law of
“ the survival of the fittest,” and its tireless servant, “ the
Private-Profit System,” — and might then demand a system
of greater equality and justice; the world’s “ Money
Changers” realized that they must quickly destroy the dis­
contented classes, or they themselves might soon be over­
thrown. They knew that it would be as impossible to
remove the effects of Christ Jesus’ teachings of brotherly
94 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
love, and those of the world's various enlighten
of education, from human thought and from tl
of men, as it would be to extract yeast from a pan c
once it had been impregnated with it. The oa
by which these “ moral idiots” could even hope to
their control over the world and its citizens, wo
deal with education and religion, (the only two
have ever feared), in the same manner in wt
would have to deal with the pan of dough if
going to try and get rid of the yeast. In other wi
would have to destroy the dough in order to
yeast.
:d forms
e hearts
f dough
y means
continue
uld be to
ces they
,ich they
ey were
ords they
troy the
fori
tin
des
The influences of education and religion have now be'
come so deeply embedded into the thoughts and hearts of
men, that there is no possible means by which they can be
destroyed other than to slaughter those who have felt
their effect. Such people are growing increasingly desirous
of ending the age-old curses of war and poverty, and of
bringing to pass the universal establishment of an economic
system which will be able to abundantly supplv the re­
quirements of human life for the people of every land,
and without any more bloodshed or bitter rival) ies.
Recognizing that a desire to bring about the brother­
hood of man, had become almost universally accepted
among the people of the world's most advanced nations,
and that a widespread demand, not only for economic
security but for protection against the ravages of war, had
entered the hearts of men, the world’s Hidden Rulers
determined, many years ago, upon a plan which would not
only bring about the extermination of the classes of
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 95
people they desire to destroy, but would actually enlist
the enthusiasm and unquestioning help and support of mil­
lions of the citizens of these various civilized nations; a
plan which would draw this support from both the edu­
cated and religious, as well as the illiterate classes. They
decided to start a number of great world movements which
would appear to have as their objectives, “ The Establish­
ment of a W orld Brotherhood.”
They would finance a number of revolutions and bring
about the overthrow of the world’s major governments,
but they would do so in the name and under the guise of
what would seem to be “A Great W orld Brotherhood.”
Depending upon the characteristics of thought of the
people of these various nations, they would name their
movements either “ Communism,” “ Fascism” or “Socialism,”
— or give them some other equally euphonious title. How­
ever in each instance they would cause the people,—
through well-planned propaganda and carefully selected
and trained lieutenants,— to believe that the leaders of these
new types of government, (inasmuch as they had been
selected from the working classes), were devoting their
entire efforts to the establishment of a system of “ equality”
and “ the brotherhood of man.” Finally, with the accept­
ance of such beliefs, the public would willingly consent,
not only to a regimentation of men and of the activities
of agriculture and industry, but also grant their support
and co-operation towards the enforcement of such rulings.
Under the mesmeric influence of thinking that they
were finally helping to bring to pass economic equality and
a great world brotherhood, they would unresistingly permit
96 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
any forms of cruelty or brutality which their ne\
might tell them were necessary for the success
movement. W hen such people had either volu:
through compulsion, submerged their own thinLi
individualities in programs which they would be
for the good of the “State” and when they had bee
that the “State” must come first no matter how ir
fering they were individually forced to experier
— “ but not until then”— the combined labor, tal
abilities of such people would be directed into
for the production of great armaments and mun
war, and for the development of huge standing
which the masses would be made to believe wer<
protection and advancement of the “long pr;
brotherhood of man.”
told
v Rulers
of their
mtarily or
ing and
were
:n taught
uch suf'
ce, then
L:nts and
channels
litions of
At the same time, as quickly as it could be
brought to pass, the religious institutions of the
would be discredited and prohibited from furthi
ties, excepting those which might be under th
authorisation and direction of the State. When
accomplished, people would be gradually taught
ship the “ State” instead of God, and to scorn not
ideals of the various religions but even the purii
pulses of decency and morality. While these effe
brought to pass, the women and little children,
the men, (through the mediums of intensive
training, outdoor sports and athletics), would be
for military service.
Soon thereafter, the sanctity of marriage and
cepts of morality, for which the human race has
as
armies,
for the
yed for
safely
land
r activi-
: special
this was
to wor-
only the
ying im-
:cts were
well as
physical
hardened
the con-
struggled
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 97
throughout so many long centuries, would have thereby
been largely uprooted, and men taught even to ridicule
the concept of marriage, home or church. Should the
people occasionally wonder what had become of the ideals
of brotherhood, and from time to time remember that the
only sources from which they had ever received the teach'
ings or been impregnated with the desires of brotherhood
or brotherly love had invariably been in the protected
atmosphere of the home, either at their mothers’ knees
or in the Sunday Schools or Churches,— (which latter,
would by that time have ceased to exist, and even be
prevented by law from ever attempting any further in'
fluence upon the thoughts of those who were supposedly
striving to bring to pass economic equality and brotherly
love),— and should they start complaining because of the
cruelty or injustice of their dictators and officials, they
would then be reminded of the fact that their Rulers had
been selected from their own working classes, and they
should therefore not complain.
In the meantime, people would no longer suspect
“ Capitalists” or believe that they were responsible for the
loss of their homes and churches, their freedom of speech,
freedom of assembly, and most of the other liberties which
had been granted to them under their previous forms of
government for, (although the Dictators and Communists
Rulers would previously have been carefully selected by
the world’s wealthy Hidden Rulers), the public would be
made to think that such Rulers had attained to their posi­
tion through their great love for their fellowman, and had
only the welfare of humanity at heart.
98 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
Even though their dictators might, with one breath
utter inspiring statements about the brotherhood
and in the next breath give an order to slaughte:
thousands of their own citizens for an infraction
minor regulation; even though one minute they
sign an official publicity statement describing the
benefits which the new form of Government had
into the lives of the “Proletariat,” and in the next
affix their signatures to a ruling which would abol:
churches of the various religions, annul the sam
marriage, and prohibit freedom of speech, the rif
assembly, or the privileges of a home; nevertheles:
people would be told that all of these actions wen
because of their dictator’s great love for them,
courageous undying desire to assure their economic
and happiness. Due to the gullibility of human tl
the world’s Rulers believed that men and women
not awaken,— until it was too late,— to the fact
only sources from which they had ever gained the
for brotherhood or the generous impulses of
love, were those which by that time would be pro
by law from having any further influence upon tf
of men; namely, the church, the sanctity of marriagi
the home.
tin
With the abolishment of all laws granting individual
human rights, these Dictators,— (under orders, day by day,
received through the secret agents of the world’s Hidden
Rulers),— carry forward their plans for the building of
great armies and the manufacturing of vast armaments
and munitions, in preparation for their share in t le war
which will, at its conclusion, have slaughtered those who
of man,
• some
of some
might
great
brought
instant
sh the
:ity of
hts of
i, the
taken
his
security
lought,
would
at the
desire
therly
hibited
lives
;e and
and
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 99
fought for the overthrow of their previous forms of govern­
ment, and the establishment of that which they had been
told was to end the rule of the world’s capitalists, end wars
and poverty, and usher in an era of brotherhood and
equality.
With the abolishment of the rights of free speech
and the protection of just laws, those in control of the
nations which exchange their respective forms of govern­
ment for Communism, Fascism, Naziism or some other
type of Dictatorship, have little difficulty in controlling the
masses and compelling them to obey any and all orders
issued by the “Money Changers.”
With the power of “Life or Death” over their sub­
jects, and with thousands of spies scattered throughout
every corner of their countries, it is only necessary to
order the execution of anyone who questions or complains
about their authority. If one of their agents orders a man
or a woman to dig a ditch, and such a one objects or
refuses to do so, either torture or execution is the price
that must be paid. Dictators do not take time to argue
the enforcement of their orders,— “ One either obeys them
or dies.” That is the price paid by those who think that
through the avenues of a Dictatorship, Communism, Fas­
cism, Naziism or the world’s present concept of Socialism,
they are ushering in the brotherhood of man. The only
equality which will be experienced by those who believe
that they can forfeit their homes, their churches, their
freedom of speech and privileges of assembly, in exchange
for these various “ isms” and dictatorships, “ will be the
equality of worms,” crushed under the heels of the few
100 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
who win the right and who have the brutality of temper­
ament to walk on them.
If gold and silver are still to constitute the b; sis of
currency, or to be used as such by any new form of govern­
ment or any economic system recommended by any person
or group of persons appearing at this time before thi pub­
lic with a panacea for its ills, such recommendations either
emanate from those who are “ wholly ignorant” of the
actual causes of war, poverty and similar types of human
suffering, or they emanate “ directly” from the vworld's
“ Money Changers;” its “Hidden Rulers.” Inasmuch p
is any
government which continues to use a type of monef cap­
able of being accumulated by any person or group cf per­
sons, will always be under complete subjection to these
Hidden Rulers,— (since their accumulations of these metals
now exceed,— and through their ceaseless additions to
their treasuries,— will always exceed any amount which
will ever be accumulated by any Government “ other than
their own Hidden one, which includes the control of all
others” ),— the only difference between the so-called " Capit­
alistic Government,” and the “ Communistic One,” is that
under a “ Dictatorship” the people “know” they are work­
ing for nothing, and that whatever they earn is going into
the hands of their Rulers; whereas, under the “ Private-
Profit System” or so-called “ Capitalistic” form of govern­
ment, they are made to “ think” that at least a part of the
fruitage of their labors will be theirs to store away iri their
own little, individual, diminutive treasure chests. And
in fact, under this latter form of system, that is exactly
what they are encouraged to do, for the “ Money Changers”
know that they can empty out these little chests intc their
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 101
own big ones through the process of depressions, panics
and unemployment, any time they may so desire.
However, with the vehicle of Communism and other
forms of dictatorship at their disposal, the world’s Hidden
Rulers have been able, during the past few years, to travel
much more rapidly than they would have otherwise towards
their goal of the great war of extermination, which they
plan to have reach the fulfillment of its purpose,— the
slaughter of the educated, religious and right-thinking
human beings of every major nation,— at an early date.
Every effort is therefore being made at this time to stir
up bitterness and hate among the people of the advanced
nations in order that their governments may be over­
thrown, either through the processes of revolution by
armed force, or by means of drastic constitutional changes
in the basic foundation of their governmental structure.
W ith the destruction of the rights of free speech and
privilege of assembly, any possible sources of objection
or opposition can quickly be uprooted, and the “ Money
Changers” are then able to proceed without interference
with their production of vast armaments, the formation
of huge armies, and the use of a nation’s entire resources
for the development and manufacture of facilities with
which to perform its share of the task of extermination
during the next world war.*
All men, women and children, who are able to read
and write, are scheduled to be murdered, excepting those
who are either the relatives, immediate associates, or trusted
agents of the Hidden Rulers and who will, at the conclu­
sion of their war, occupy the same position and relation-
* Unless a widespread acceptance of its program is accomplished, the
Institute can succeed in only temporarily delaying the consummation of
these insane dreams of conquest.
102 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
ship to the remaining members of the human race
may survive this war, as the relationship which
exists between the Rajahs of India and their si
illiterate masses. The only difference between the gi
ment of the Rajahs and that of the Hidden Rulers, i
the program of the latter,— (this twentieth century
racy, which is planned for our world of to-morro
will provide its Rulers with even greater luxurie:
even more certain control over their subjects; alt
it will of course correspond fundamentally with the
principles of the governments in India which kee
masses ignorant and on the point of starvation, in
that they may thereby be more readily controlled.
who
now
:arved
;i>vern-
s that
autoc-
w ),—
and
lough
basic
p the
order
* * P L E A S E N O T E * *
In view of what many people consider to be an advanced civilization,
the revelations contained in the following chapter will seem wh illy un­
believable to a great number of our readers. Knowing this, our Sbonsors
debated, at length, the advisability of publishing the statements
prising Chapter VI. - at this time.
However, after weighing the matter carefully, it was decided to include
it as written; for it was assumed that as soon as the message in "Pfankmd
United" was released to the public, copies of said book would le deliv­
ered into the hands of the world’s Hidden Rulers by some one of their
thousands of secret service operatives. In this way the "Money Changers”
would learn not only that their most secret plans had been discovered,
but that every move they might henceforth make towards the consum­
mation thereof would likewise be revealed to mankind long before de­
structive action against the public welfare could be successfully under­
taken or brought to fruition.
Nothing is more disconcerting to the general staff of an army of destroy­
ers than to learn that what they had thought to be their mo\t secret
plots and plans of campaigning are known to their opponents.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 103
CHAPTER VI.
40,000 PRINCIPALITIES—
ONE THOUSAND MILLION SLAVES
AND
DEATH FOR ALL OF THE WORLD’S EDUCATED AND
RELIGIOUS PEOPLES. SUCH ARE THE RESULTS W HICH
WILL CONSTITUTE THE SUCCESSFUL CULMINATION OF
THE CENTURY-OLD PLANS OF MANKIND’S HIDDEN
RULERS.
During the 30-day program of The Research Depart­
ment of The International Institute of Universal Research
and Administration, photostatic copies of plans will be
presented to the two hundred million (200,000,000) men
and women who will constitute our audience, which will
prove to even the most skeptical of them the necessity of
establishing a world-wide economic system based upon some
medium of exchange and currency other than gold and sil­
ver. The Institute’s program will prove to them, that unless
the economic system it recommends is universally establish­
ed at an early date,— (as it can be at any time within ninety
(90) days upon the consent of the people to whom it will
be presented),— that within less than six (6) months after
the conclusion of the next world war there will be,— (with
the exception of the Hidden Rulers and their followers),—
no educated people, (and in no part of the world any re­
ligious ones); nor will there be any educational or religious
institutions nor facilities for the development of indepen­
dence of thought, in any nation on this earth, except among
the people who will then constitute its ruling class.*
* The Institute, through its constantly growing influence, has succeeded
in temporarily delaying the complete consummation of the catastrophe
herein depicted; but only by the widespread acceptance of its recommen­
dations can permanent peace, enlightenment and economic security be
assured.
104 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
The Institute will prove that at the conclusior of the
final world war, those who have plotted it have planned
to evolve an economic system which will consist af four
(4) levels of human society. To bring this system to pass,
the entire world is being armed to the teeth, and even
little ten (10) year old children are being trained for its
armies.
The lowest of these four (4) levels will be trade up
of men and women who will be trained to perform only
such drudgery tasks as may require but little inteligence.
The next group above them will consist of the men and
women who have been taught to operate machines. The
third class will include, (up to eighty (80% ) per cent of
its numbers), the police force, which will consist of eun­
uchs who will have the responsibility of compelling obed­
ience to the edicts of the rulers. This third class will also
include, (up to twenty (20% ) per cent of its numbers),
the so-called intelligentsia, consisting of men who will be
educated and trained to conduct laboratories and research
bureaus through which to develop the requirements and
luxuries for their Ruler and themselves. The four:h class
will be those for whom the first two groups exist as slaves,
and for whom eighty (80% ) per cent of the third
act as body-guards and twenty (20% ) per cent as s
and companions. Each ruling family comprising this
group, (of which there will be but forty thousand
will be allowed twenty thousand (20,000) slaves
body-guard and group of student companions of fi\
sand (5000) men to enforce their orders and provi
entertainment and companionship, when desired.
group
tudents
fourth
,000)
and a
e thou-
ide both
(40.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 105
In other words, a total of twenty-five thousand
(25,000) people will be under the jurisdiction and control
of each one of these forty thousand (40,000) families; in
all, a total of one thousand million (1000,000,000) people.
Each unit of twenty-five thousand (25,000) people will
consist of five thousand (5000) men in the third group and
ten thousand (10,000) men and women in the second
group, which will include mechanics and various types of
machinists, each trained to do some specific task but pro­
hibited from learning any subject other than that in which
specific training has been ordered. In other words, each
of this second group will literally be a “ human automaton.”
With ten thousand (10,000) men and women laborers in
the first group who will perform all necessary drudgery
tasks not taken care of by the machines, these four groups
with a total of twenty-five thousand (25,000) people, and
the family which rules them, will,— with whatever section
of the globe is allocated to them,— constitute a self-con­
tained principality over which the appointed ruler will
have complete and absolute autocratic control, with the
power of life or death over his subjects.
N o marriages will be allowed among the members of
the twenty-five thousand (25,000) men and women of any
of these four groups. However, after the respective ruler
has made his selection of the most attractive young girls
of the first two groups for his own harem, then the one
thousand (1000) students of the third group will have the
privilege of drawing by lot, (but with no other rights of
selection), whatever girls they may desire as their concu­
bines. All male children will be emasculated, with the
exception of the healthiest and best specimens. These will
106 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
be selected and trained to replace the educated members
of the third group, as said members are retired from active
service, or die.
Nurses will be selected from the first two groups, who
will be put in charge of all children who have pissed the
age of six months. During the first six months, the respec­
tive mothers will be held responsible, under the supervision
of said trained nurses, for the health and care of their
babies. The only education which will be granted to the
children who are placed in the first two groups,— (or the
police force branch of the third group),— to replice those
who die, will be limited to the training required for the
respective duties they will be expected to perforn, in ac­
cordance with the degree of their intelligence and potential
capabilities as determined by the sociologists and psycholo­
gists in the laboratories directed by such scientists of the
third group in charge of these activities.
any
Neither reading nor writing will be taught 1
the persons comprising the first two groups
thousand (20,000) men and women, nor to
men within the third group, other than one fifth
of their number; in other words, one thousand
them will be educated and trained to carry on
of the laboratories and experimental and testin
ments together with the various bureaus establ:
accordance with the requirements, interests, or
the ruler.
ho:
In order that the twenty-five thousand (25,0( 0)
and selected associates of each principality, may be
kept under the immediate observation and control
any of
twenty
of the
(l/5 th )
(1000) of
:he work
depart-
ished in
ibbies of
slaves
readily
of the
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 107
respective ruler, these people will all be housed within one
gigantic structure of twenty-five stories in height, and with
the palace and gardens of its owner constructed on the top
thereof. Directly beneath the ruler’s palace, occupying
from the twenty-fifth (25th) down to and including the
tenth (10th) story of each such structure, there will be
constructed the numerous apartments, laboratories, testing,
experimental and research bureaus; television and radio de­
partments; power-control rooms, and educational center, as
well as the amusement auditoriums for those comprising
the third group. From the ninth (9th) story down to and
including the first floor, will be located the machine shops
and work rooms of the twenty thousand (20,000) slaves
of the first two groups, who will be supervised by the five
thousand (5000) members of the third group, in the pre­
paration and production of food, clothes, machinery, amuse­
ment paraphernalia, and the general luxuries ordered by the
ruler for his use and that of the various members of the
third group whom he may, from time to time, favor with
some expression of his appreciation for their loyalty and
services.
The living quarters for the twenty thousand (20,000)
slaves comprising the first two groups, will be located for
a distance the equivalent of ten stories directly beneath this
gigantic structure. They will be so placed, in order that
the ruler might— by merely pressing a button,— release any
one of a number of kinds of poisonous gases, and thereby
not only succeed in quelling any general uprising, but also
quickly eliminate any of the group who might become par­
ticularly unruly. Such ones could be readily slaughtered
by housing them in any one of a number of different sec-
108 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
tions of the subterranean area of his palace. In this sec­
tion there will also be located the power plants, water
reservoirs and storage rooms, hermetically sealed off from
access by any other than the ruler’s most trusted slaves.
The living quarters above referred to will
only the barest requirements for sustaining hui
W ith the exception of the most attractive girls
be chosen by the ruler and the one thousand
members of the third group for their respective
the remainder of the men and women slaves in
two groups will have their mentalities regularly
through the use of drugs and dope placed in
and drinking water, in order that the quality of thi
ing may remain on a similar level with that of tl
and least intelligent creatures of the animal kingi
that they may therefore be readily satisfied with t
est kinds of food,— little or no amusement,— :
with some straw upon which to lie, as the only
will ever know, or even have enough imagination
tin
-and
ho:
and
The twenty-five thousand (25,000) slaves
belonging to each of those who will comprise th
ruling class of forty thousand (40,000) men, will
stantly under the direct observation of their
ruler, through the use of remotely-controlled telev:
radio equipment, microphones, television scree
placed in every room and corner of the great
which will constitute the palace as well as facte
slave quarters belonging to each ruler. At any
the day or night, by either pressing a button oi
a dial, the ruler will be able to look at or listen to
contain
nan life,
vho may
educated
harems,
these first
dulled
eir food
;ir think-
.e dullest
;dom, and
:|he coars-
a stall
ime they
:o desire.
guards,
world’s
be con-
:spective
kion and
ns, etc.,
structures
iries and
time of
turning
any one
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 109
of his entire allotment of twenty-five thousand (25,000)
slaves.
W ith the exception of his most trusted body-guards
and himself, none of his slaves will be allowed to under­
stand the use of guns or other armaments or facilities with
which he will keep himself protected. In order that not
even one of the forty thousand (40,000) rulers or their
descendants may ever be tempted to increase the number
of his slaves, or to gain control of any other principality
or part of the earth or its resources, than that which has—
by majority vote— been allotted to him, it has been mutually
agreed upon by those who constitute the present “Money
Changers” and “ Hidden Rulers” of our day, that if any
one of their number should ever yield to such a tempta­
tion, such a one and his entire unit of slaves will be blasted
off the face of the earth by the immediate simultaneous
attack of the thirty-nine thousand nine hundred and ninety
nine (39,999) other rulers, with a combined armed force
consisting of whatever proportion of their one hundred
and sixty million (160,000,000) body-guards they may re­
quire for the accomplishment of such a result.
It is therefore reasonable to state, that once the world’s
“ Hidden Rulers” have succeeded in slaughtering the present
educated and religious peoples of our earth, and have there­
by gained not only indirect but absolute and complete
“ Direct Control” of the world’s resources, machinery and
remaining illiterate populations, they will have little
difficulty in maintaining their rule over mankind as long
as they may wish to do so, inasmuch as there would never
thereafter be any opportunity for the human race to com-
110 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
bine its forces against the rule of such depraved
monsters. Nor would there ever be any likelihood
the overthrow of such a type of rule through the
envy or dissatisfaction of any of the various “ little
inasmuch as the strength of their respective kingdi
their individual allotment of slaves, would never
ficient to tempt them into even contemplating a]
upon the approximately one thousand million othei
beings owned body and soul by the remaining rul
constantly under their direct orders.
Being aware of the fact that the smug complacency
of the modern educated intellects of this age will feel cc
to reject the foregoing statements as being utterly fantastic
impossible of accomplishment, we beg to be permitted to ■
tion to the present “caste system” of India. With its
principalities, this system has— century after century— fi
quite satisfactorily for the fabulously wealthy Maharajah
country. Those who are inclined to doubt, might also bea
the fact that the economic and governing system of Inili
only one that has produced “Multi-billionaires” and n
them in power generation after generation; nor have ar
“modern trimmings” of recent scientific discoveries been
to perpetuate or to aid its operation.
YES, INDEED, THE NEW ECONOMIC SYSTEI
ABOUT T O BE ESTABLISHED BY THE W ORLD’S
CHANGERS, WILL W ORK “ VICIOUSLY WELL” I
FEW MASTERS.
The Research Department of The International In
Universal Research and Administration is fully prepared-
irrefutable evidence”— to prove (during its 30-day progr
the plot— which has been but briefly described in the
chapter—will unquestionably be consummated unless a c
etary and economic system is “universally” established.
, insane
of even
ealousy,
” kings,
cl)m
s and
be suf-
i attack
human
ers, and
of some
nstrained
and quite
all atten-
mmerous
mctioned
s of that
in mind
!ia is the
aintained
iy of the
required
NOW
MONEY
OR ITS
ititute of
[
— “with
am) that
oregoing
ew mon-
The Institute, through its constantly growing influence, has succeeded
in temporarily delaying the complete consummation of the catastrophe
herein depicted; but only by the widespread acceptance of its recommen­
dations can permanent peace, enlightenment and economic security be
assured.
REPRINTED^FROM THE S.F.NEWS- OP SEPTjS,1937
American Planner Leaves For
Russia to Assist Program
B y United P ress
ST. LOUIS, Sept. 2.— Henri Rush,
architect and former chief engineer
for this city, has decided to accept
Soviet Russia’s invitation to go to
Russia and participate in its build­
ing program.
Mr. Rush devoted most of his time
during the depression to plans for
a city in one building. Plans sub­
mitted to the St. Louis Chapter of
the American Institute of Architects
portrayed a structure 2000 feet high,
encompassing four city blocks, ac­
commodating 25,000 persons and
containing all industrial, commer­
cial, residential, university and hos­
pital facilities.
“I think T will be very welcome
over there under the present pro­
gram.”
( F 4 4 “ A " - ( 3 - 3 9 ' - 5 0 )
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 111
CHAPTER VII.
SHALL JESUS— OR— JUDAS PREVAIL
?
For the benefit of those who although having eyes
with which to see and ears with which to hear yet are
unwilling to either read or to try to understand “The
Signs of the Times,” and for the benefit of “ Those who
refuse to recognize the true meaning ” in back of the mad
scramble by even the most advanced of the world’s civil­
ized nations to build up armaments of warfare and vast
quantities of munitions,— capable of slaughtering the en­
tire human race, if it were so desired,— we beg to be
allowed to remind such people that the eight million
(8,000,000) healthy, intelligent young men who died on
the battlefields during the world war of the years 1914 to
1918— (and the millions slaughtered since that time)—
also scoffed at the idea that there could ever again
be a war which would involve “even one” of the great
civilized nations, to say nothing of “all of the major ones,”
as was actually the case. Yet, that war “ was planned and
executed” with the consent of the actual Rulers, (although
not those whom mankind “ thought” to be their leaders),
of each of those warring nations, working together as one
harmoniously united executive board, merely completing
“ One” of the numerous tests, which have been going on
throughout a number of generations, in preparation for the
112 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
time when the mechanical inventions and chemical dis­
coveries of the world would provide sufficient power with
which to bring to pass,— through the purchasing power
and influence of their centuries of accumulated “ Gold and
Silver,” — the complete and final destruction of those in­
fluences which have for so many centuries interfered with
the “ Hidden Rulers’ ” complete enslavement of the human
race; namely, our civilizations’ educational and leligious
institutions.
To those who may believe that prayers ( witi out the
actions which “ Christ Jesus’ Sermon on the Mount,” and
most particularly “His Golden Rule,” enjoins upon the
human race) can save the world from another war,— which
will destroy not only the most enlightened members of our
present civilization but also all of the educational and
religious institutions which have required so many cen­
turies to develop,— we bring to their attention the fact
that the combined prayers of the most spiritual and en­
lightened thinkers of all of the religious movements in
all of the civilized nations, throughout the entire world,
did not prevent the last world war, nor did not prevent
the past many years of depression, nor can they possibly
prevent the war which will complete the “ Hidden
program of extermination, unless every man, wot
child who claims to even believe in God— not or
down on his knees and prays,” but “ also stands u
feet and acts” some of the “ Golden Rule” tall
preached about for so many of the past centuries
Rulers’ ”
nan and
ly “gets
a on his
xed and
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 113
Those of us who utter words of brotherly love, which
our actions have not justified, are like the “ whited sepub
chers” of which Christ Jesus spoke, and which He des-
cribed as “being filled with all uncleanliness.” There is
no man or woman on this earth today but who is still
obliged,— (if he has any but the qualities of a hypocrite
in his consciousness)— to bow his head as did the “ Peni­
tent Publican,” and pray that he might some day have the
courage and goodness of spirit with which to be worthy
to partake, in some small part, of that Cup which Christ
Jesus “ drained to the bitter dregs ” that men might there­
by be taught the lesson “ of doing unto others as they would
have others do unto them."
That men might understand and become worthy to
receive the blessings described by Christ Jesus' “ Sermon
On The Mount,” and the prayer to which the world now
refers as “ The Lord’s Prayer,” the Sponsors and officially
selected co-workers of The International Institute of Uni­
versal Research and Administration have dedicated their
lives to the uncovering of “ Spiritual Wickedness In High
Places,” and the development of a program which might
open the eyes of men to the necessity of establishing an
economic system which would never again provide the
opportunity for any human being to successfully plot the
destruction of his brothers nor to contemplate the slaughter­
ing of other human beings for the purpose of financial
gain, or to attempt to become some “ Puny Little Swinish
god” in order that he might satisfy his ego by having
brass bands play when he appears before men, or if his
brother man displeases him, that he might have the power
of deciding upon the life or death of such an individual.
114 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
That intelligent men and women can— afte:
two thousand (2000) years— still fail to recogi
necessity of “ Absolute Obedience” to the unive
which commands that “ W e do unto others as w.
have others do unto us,” now— in the light of our c
ies— seems almost incomprehensible. For it she
self-evident, that if even “ one person” has more
world’s goods— and broader opportunities or privile
are available to another— then either “Jealousy,”
or “Seeds of Hate,” are thereby propagated, ar
things have a tendency to multiply,— (but most
arly, qualities of thought),— it is not long before th
believe they have been treated unfairly, attempt
away the goods of the one who appears to have m
they themselves have received. Consequently, the
man is forced to build up walls of protection arc
possessions, and construct armaments and implen
warfare with which to fight off those who have
less than he.
■ nearly
lire the
rsal law
would
iscover-
>uld be
of this
ges than
“Envy,”
d as all
aarticul-
ose who
to take
are than
wealthy
und his
cents of
received
However, the greatest danger that results fre
kind’s unwillingness to erect an economic systei
upon an equal distribution of this world's goods to
from their disobedience to “ The Golden Rule”
principles of universal law expounded by Chris
teachings) does not consist of the destructive qu;
“jealousy,” “ envy” or “ hate,” but rather is it mac
those known as “ Greed,” “Selfishness” and
cation.” W hen a man has once tasted of the d;
fruit of “ power and dominion over his fellows,
feeling of “Superiority,” which comes from havi:
clothes, more food, finer homes or a greater var
cr
m man-
based
all (and
and the
Jesus’
lities of
!e up of
f-glorifi-
ngerous
of the
ag more
ety and
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 115
a superior quality of possessions than one’s fellow beings,
the desire to prove that “ He is Superior to Others,” takes
hold of his thought, and soon becomes such an obsession,
that he can neither be satisfied nor happy, unless every'
thing he owns is better than the possessions which belong
to anyone else. As one egotist vies with another, soon
such people no longer hesitate to lie, steal or even murder,
in order that they might surpass the ones whom they feel
may possibly be in doubt as to their individual superiority
to others, until, (under our so greatly glorified “ Competi-
tive Private Profit System” ), we have almost become a
world of egotists, thieves and murderers.
It is to awaken those “ who are still sane” and who
are not either too selfish, too greedy, too bigoted or too
egotistical to heed our warnings and accept our recom'
mendations, that Our Sponsors have ceaselessly striven to
uncover the “ actual causes of human suffering,” and obtain
the proofs which now point to the utter futility and need'
lessness,— as well as the danger,— of attempting to prove
our “ superiority” over other human beings through the
accumulation of possessions, when instead, we should be
endeavoring to improve our God-given talents and “our
birth-right of intelligence,” through study, travel, obser­
vation and an industriously-trained faculty of appreciation
and gratitude for the vast illimitable and gloriously beau­
tiful universe, which our Creator has given to the human
race as its home; an indescribably beautiful estate which
God has given to “ All Men” in much the same way,— and
under quite the same restrictions as a wealthy parent
might give his dearly beloved sons a great estate for their
116 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
mutual enjoyment, subject only to “their equal sharing”
of all of its resources, facilities, pleasures and beauties.
After all, there is not the slightest justification for any
of us to ever feel any “ very great” sense of superiority
over our fellow beings, for when we go back through
mankind’s records of human history, and trace the lives of
“ thousands upon thousands of billions of human beings
who have trod this globe,” it is not possible for us to point
to even one who had anything to do with creating the
sun, moon, stars, our earth or its mountains, seas, flowers,
trees, birds or bees, nor in fact, even a single hair upon his
own head. In the face of such over-powering evidence,
even the most profound egotist would be unable to con­
vince a sane jury composed of any of the moderately in­
telligent men or women on our globe, that he “actually
deserves” any larger share of the world’s goods, or any
greater honors than those bestowed upon even the most
lowly of God’s children.
However, there is “ over-powering evidence” in justi­
fication of the fact that man should bow in humble rever­
ence and recognition before the all-wise Creator “ who did
fashion” our indescribably beautiful and illimitable uni­
versal home. His “ wisdom,” “ power” and “ might” should
be self-evident, even to the most self-centered atheist who
ever received his unappreciated benefits of life on this
globe.
The recognition of the fact that the wisdom and ver­
satility of the infinite Creator of all things is so great that
throughout the millions of years since the first snowflake
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 117
fell upon our earth He has never even had to pattern
two of them alike,— (nor to design any two of His ideas
from the infinitesimal to the infinite after the same pattern),
— should cause us to seek an understanding of “Him,”
rather than praise for ourselves. No, not even the hairs
on our head, nor the fingerprint designs on the fingers of
any two of the men or women of all the billions upon
billions of human beings whom He has created, has He
ever been forced through lack of versatility or intelligence
to form alike.
Is it not a more worthy form of ambition for those
calling themselves “ The Sons of God,” to study and seek,
that they may thereby learn to appreciate, love, and protect
God’s creatures, and the artistry of His handiwork, rather
than to strive to become gods themselves? Especially is it
so, because of the fact that the only reason for men desiring
to become “little gods,” is that they may thereby gain the
power to destroy what they can of God’s creation and
whomever they may choose of God’s creatures, when-
ever the insane desire to do so takes possession of the
“swinish qualities” of their puny intellects;— (qualities of
greed and selfishness which they have so assiduously culti­
vated, that they might thereby be made assured of their
own “ superiority” over any other of God’s creatures).
Surely Christ Jesus’ life work, and the supreme sacri­
fice which He made in order that men might learn what
brotherly love “and true giving” really mean, and that the
human race might thus be saved from its own selfish de­
struction, is not going to be so demoniacally reversed that
only those who have naught but selfishness, cruelty and
118 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
swinish bestiality in their thoughts, are to be the only
ones to learn the importance of equality!! W hy!— Even
the monstrous “ Hidden Rulers,” who know no other
human feelings than those of greed and an insane craving
for power, have learned that they must divide the earth’s
resources, and those who will then be their slaves, in such
“an equally proportioned manner” that there will never be
any occasion for one ruler to be jealous of another, nor
for the qualities of envy or hate to thereby cause a dis-
ruption among them which might cause a division in their
ranks, and as a result of envy, jealousy or hate, bring
about the self-destruction of their kingdoms. Even “ their”
depraved mentalities have become so conscious of the
cumulative dynamically destructive forces of jealousy, envy
and hate, and those of greed, selfishness and self-glorifica­
tion, that they have found it desirable to unite upon the
common ground of self-preservation, and a full recognition
of the power and might of unity based upon equality.
Even “ they” have enough intelligence left to agree to
stand as one, and as a solid body against any one of their
members who might ever attempt to have even one slave
more than the others, or the slightest advantage which
might cause either envy, jealousy, hate— “ or the more
dangerous feeling of superiority”— to develop in the men­
talities of any of the men, who will,— upon the successful
consummation of their plots a short time hence,'—be­
come the full owners and unopposed rulers of our world.
Even “ they”— (although it surely cannot be the slightest
quality of unselfed love which motivates them) — have
agreed to come to the aid of any of their member rulers,
who might have trouble with his slaves, and every one
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 119
of their respective slaves will feel the sting of instant death,
upon the slightest appearance or evidence of any of those
destructive qualities to which we have referred. Each of
those slaves will be taught that if he ever so much as
harmed even one hair on his master’s head, that the com'
bined forces of the rulers’ bodyguards of millions of men
would search him out and subject him to the tortures of
the damned until he died.
YES, EVEN OUR W O R LD ’S HIDDEN RULERS,
W H O M W E CALL THE “M ONEY CHANGERS” OF
TO D A Y, H AVE LEARNED ONE ASPECT OF THE
PROFOUND LESSONS OF THE MASTER, “ CHRIST
JESUS;” HE W H O CAME T O BRING “ PEACE” AN D
N O T A “SW O RD ,” “ BROTHERLY LOVE,” N O T
“H ATE,” A N D “ U NITY” INSTEAD OF “ DIVISION”
T O THE H U M AN RACE. EVEN “ THEY” H AVE
LEARNED THE VALUE OF “ U N ITY” BASED UP­
ON “EQUAL RIGHTS” ! BUT UNFORTUNATELY—
FOR THE R E S T OF H U M AN ITY — “ EQUAL
RIGHTS” T O THEM MEAN EQUAL RIGHTS FOR
THEMSELVES ALONE, A N D SLAVERY FOR ALL
OTHERS.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 121
CHAPTER VIII.
C H R I S T I A N S W A N T E D !
If those who call themselves “Christians" (no matter
to what denomination they may belong) have ever even been
momentarily inspired by feelings of “ brotherly love” and
“ kindness ” and will, therefore, help by their unprejudiced
thought, moral support, and good will, to gather together
a great world-wide audience for us, of two hundred million
(200,000,000) courageous and sincere men and women,—
men and women who desire to some day attain to that mind
“ which was also in Christ Jesus,”— (and who would be
willing to “start doing so” by consenting to “Do unto
others as they would have others do unto them,” and
would obey this injunction at least to the extent of con­
senting to the establishment of business facilities powerful
and influential enough to produce and distribute the entire
necessities and luxuries of human life, which could— either
now or in the future— ever be required or desired by the
human race);— A N D IF SUCH PEOPLE WILL CON­
SENT, — UPON OUR PRESENTATION OF THE
PROOFS W H ICH W E H AVE A T OUR DISPOSAL
TH ROUGH THE RESEARCH DEPARTMENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE OF UNIVER­
SAL RESEARCH A N D ADM INISTRATION, — TO
122 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM BASED UPON “ THE
GOLDEN RULE” A N D “ ABSOLUTE ECONOMIC
EQUALITY,” OUR RESEARCH DEPARTMENT
WILL GIVE EACH A N D EVERY ONE OF THEM
INDISPUTABLE ASSURANCE OF PERMANENT,
FINANCIAL INDEPENDENCE.
W e are prepared to provide an organization composed
of not less than 200,000,000 men and women— (dedicated
to the practical application of “ The Golden Rule” ),—
with fully perfected inventions so marvelously constructed
that the production of food, clothes, homes, etc., can be
brought to pass on a scale so vast that, within less than
ten (10) years, enough food will have been produced and
properly preserved to feed the entire human race, if need
should arise, for a period of over one hundred (100) years,
without any additional production of such necessities.
During that same 10-year period, with the inventions and
discoveries which we are prepared to provide as a gift to
such an organization, enough wool, cotton, silk, etc., can
be produced to also clothe mankind for an entire century,
and enough homes constructed to provide a new home for
each family on our earth.
W ITH IN LESS TH A N ONE YEAR, THE W ORLD
CAN SET IN TO M O TIO N THE NECESSARY M ACH ­
INERY A N D BUSINESS FACILITIES FOR PRODUC­
ING OVER ONE HUNDRED (100) TIMES AS MUCH
FOOD A N D CLOTHING MATERIALS EACH YEAR
AS THE ENTIRE POPULATION OF OUR PLANET
COULD EVEN HOPE T O USE. Instead of five hun­
dred million (500,000,000) men, women and little children
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 123
going hungry, and over eighty thousand (80,000) of them
dying every twenty-four hours from utterly needless
starvation, we are fully prepared to prove that “Right Now
— at This Time,” enough machinery, perfected inventions,
executives, trained workers, ready-to-use resources and
raw materials are available with which to produce a
twenty (20) course meal, and a full change of wearing
apparel, from shoes to hats, every hour of the twenty-four,
for every man, woman and child on this earth, if they were
capable of using them; and this quantity of mass produc­
tion could continue for millions upon millions of years
without ever even starting to exhaust the last of our
planet’s resources.
Less than one one-hundredth (l/100th) part of the
soil on our earth, which is capable of producing food, has
ever been ploughed, and yet, because of the influence of
a small group of men who have accumulated a few tons
of the metals we call gold and silver, five hundred million
(500,000,000) people, century after century, remain hungry
every day of their lives.
Wealth is not “ gold or silver,” nor do people eat either
these metals or the paper currency which represent them.
THEY ARE ONLY SYMBOLS OF VALUE! THE A C T ­
UAL W EALTH OF THE W ORLD CONSISTS OF THE
MATERIALS A N D RESOURCES O U T OF W H ICH
W E PRODUCE FOOD, CLOTHES, HOMES, A N D
THE NUMEROUS OTHER NECESSARY OR DESIR­
ABLE REQUIREMENTS OF H UM AN LIFE. Such
wealth exists in inexhaustible abundance for the equal use
of the entire human race, and no person, or group of per-
124 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
sons, will ever succeed in accumulating more than their
rightful share after mankind adopts as their “ symbol of
value” a type of money capable of being used only by the
one to whom it has been issued, and spent only through the
avenues of a great producing and distributing commercial
organization, equally owned by every human being on our
earth and given the power to produce and distribute what'
ever mankind may choose to use from their “ equally
owned” actual wealth— “ the earth and its resources.”
In other words, mankind could not possibly consume
even the very smallest part of either the available neces'
sities of life, or the luxuries which are here ready for our
unlimited use and enjoyment, whenever we open our fear-
blinded eyes, and cast off the “educated bigotry” of our
thought long enough to act like intelligent creatures, in­
stead of “ murderous wolves;”— and whenever we are
willing to combine our efforts and guarantee each other
the equal distribution of our united labors.
Two hundred million (200,000,000) men and women,
drawn from the “ middle classes” of population of the
world’s civilized nations, possess a combined buying power
of over one thousand million dollars ($1000,000,000.00)
per day, with which they can, at any time they wish, in­
sist upon a full release of the “ Real Wealth of the W orld,”
which belongs equally to all. N O POW ER ON THIS
PLANET COULD RESIST SUCH A UNITED DE­
M AND!!
If every man and woman on earth were to draw the
equivalent of $3,000.00 per year, in food, clothes, homes,
travel, education, etc., and were to start doing so within
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 123
one year from the date of the establishment of The Uni­
versal Service Corporation,— (which Our Sponsors will
invite their audience of two hundred million (200,000,000)
people to form at the conclusion of the 30-day program
herein described),— they would be consuming less than one
tenth (1/1 0th) of the productive capacity of their fac-
tories, farms, and service departments, which will be func-
tioning within a matter of months thereafter.
TH IRTY TH OU SAND (£30,000.00) DOLLARS
PER YEAR OF THE NECESSITIES A N D LUXURIES
OF H U M AN LIFE, CAN BE PRODUCED FOR EVERY
ADU LT ON OUR EARTH BY THE UNIVERSAL
SERVICE CORPORATION, W ITH IN A PERIOD OF
LESS TH AN TEN (10) YEARS FROM THE DATE
OF ITS FORM ATION. Our Research Department
stands ready to prove these statements at any time that
two hundred million (200,000,000) people have agreed to
receive them, and to cast their vote, either for or against
the plans, recommendations and charter of The Universal
Service Corporation, which will at that time be offered
as a gift to the human race, subject only to the equal dis­
tribution to the men and women of every nation of the
necessities and luxuries of life which said corporation will
produce through the unrestricted and unhampered use of
our planet’s entire resources.
The marvelous inventions our Research Department
has discovered, and which have been fully tested and per­
fected, are capable of providing every family on earth,
within this same ten (10) year period,— not with just a
temporary shelter against the elements but with a home,
126 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
the value of which, together with its immediate grounds
and furnishings, will exceed a present-day cost-price of
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00). Each home
will contain, not only the finest radio equipment known
to man,— “ but fully perfected television equipment,”—
which will provide the interesting, constructive, or educa­
tional news of the world any time— day or night— and also
an almost unlimited variety of moving pictures,— (either
the various popular classics and entertainment features,
or the actual day-by-day news happenings of interest),—
“ and they will be brought directly into every home, no
matter in what part of the world it may be situated.”
Each home will also be supplied with automatic vocal-
type correspondence equipment, which will enable its user
to merely press a button and talk as he would into a dicta­
phone, but in addition to a record of the exact intonations
and inflections of his voice, he will have an automatically
prepared and typewritten letter— with as many duplicate
copies as he may desire— silently released into the corres­
pondence basket on his desk, either ready for his signature,
or already automatically signed, yet without any human
being having operated the typewriter or personally pre­
pared his letter through any mechanical means requiring
human labor. Whenever he wishes to write a letter he
will only be required to dictate it, in order to have it auto­
matically typewritten for him.
Each of these homes will be equipped with automatic
news and telephone-recording equipment, which will print
the most important items of news, and also record them
by voice on a record right in each home, minute by minute,
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 127
as they occur, in any part of the world. Similar equip-
ment will also both print on paper and record by voice
any information which others may desire to leave for you
by telephone when you are not at home. They will only
have to voice what they may wish to tell you, and their
message will be awaiting you upon your return.
Each home will also provide automatic air-condition-
ing and air-heating and cooling equipment, which will
supply each room in every home with whatever type of
temperature or climate its occupants may desire; hot air
or cold air, seashore, mountain, or desert air;— and with
the exact elements in the air in one’s home, as those which
might be obtained at a favorite resort of any of these
climatic selections.
If it is desired, a home will not only be supplied with
some acres of landscaped gardens, but also fruit trees,
vegetable gardens, and hot houses, in which one may
grow any personally favored fruits or vegetables produced
in any part of the globe. In accordance with each one’s
selection, athletic courts, swimming pools and children’s
playgrounds, surrounded by trees, shrubbery and beauti­
ful flowers; fountains, streams and miniature waterfalls,—
(artificially created in exact reproduction of some beautiful
spot one may have visited in one’s travels throughout the
world),— will gradually— over a period of not to exceed
ten (10) years— be designed and built for each family.
128 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
These benefits will first be provided for those who are
able to read and write, and who will consent to learn the
“ International Auxiliary language ’’ which will enable the
men and women to whom it is taught, to converse and
correspond with the educated people of every land. The
citizens of each nation will be encouraged to continue
learning and teaching their mother tongue, until such a
time as they may feel that the universal auxiliary language,
(which will be used by the broadcasting and news dispens­
ing agencies of The Universal Service Corporation), is
embracing not only just the advantages of their own mother
tongue, but also the added advantage of being “ universal”
in nature, and therefore capable of melting away the mis­
understandings which arise from one’s inability to under­
stand another. This universal language will quickly bring
to pass a closer feeling of universal brotherhood in the
hearts of men, as they grow to understand one another's
habits and customs, and to realize that after all the people
of every nation have much of constructive value to impart
to those of different racial background and ancestry.
W e are all the children of “The One Creator,” and as
each idea throughout the universe is different from any
other,— (but are all needed to accentuate and complement
each other),— so likewise, are each of God’s children en­
dowed with priceless individual talents. Suitable environ­
ment, adequate facilities, and a universally available oppor­
tunity for their full and complete development, will bring
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 129
down an avalanche of blessings upon the lap of “ old mother
earth,” and into the hands of men, such as they have never
before even visioned in their most inspired concepts of
the Heaven which they have sought for so long a time
in some distant place; THE HEAVEN W H ICH CHRIST
JESUS TOLD US NEARLY T W O TH OU SAND (2000)
YEARS AGO, W A S “N O T AFAR OFF,” BUT RIGHT
HERE A N D “A T H AN D ” WHENEVER MEN
W OULD FULLY APPLY HIS “ GOLDEN RULE” IN
THEIR RELATIONSHIPS W ITH ONE ANOTHER,
AN D W OU LD PROVIDE “ EQUAL OPPORTUNI­
TIES,” “EQUAL FREEDOM,” AN D “ E Q U A L
W EALTH ” FOR ALL.
n o M A N K I N D U N I T E D
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 131
CHAPTER IX.
M ANKIND’S SELF-APPOINTED GODS
AN D
THE MONSTER CALLED “ GREED”
Is it not a fact that after we arrive here on earth, we
are forced within a few short years to leave without ever
having actually seen it, or viewed even a small part of its
limitless attractions? It is not because of any lack of de­
sire, or of facilities for travel; nor is it lack of appreciation
or ingratitude on our part, which prevents us from growing
acquainted with and enjoying all of the gloriously beauti­
ful parts of our world home. NO, IT IS SOLELY THE
INFLUENCES OF G R E E D A N D SELFISHNESS
W H ICH W ITH H OLD FROM US THE PRIVILEGE
OF ENJOYING THE W ORLD AN D ITS LOVELINESS,
FOR THEY SURELY BELONG AS MUCH TO ONE
AS T O ANOTHER.
To illustrate the practical importance of Christ Jesus’
“ Golden Rule,” suppose someone were to give you, in
common with a number of others, the free use of a palace
surrounded with all manner of beautiful gardens, and pos­
sessing ample facilities for supplying you with whatever
might add to your happiness; assume for the moment that
the condition of your occupancy, and the use of this lovely
estate, depended upon each of those to whom it had been
132 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
offered, abiding in strict obedience by the rules of conduct
implied by “ Moses’ Ten Commandments,” and “ Christ
Jesus’ Sermon on the Mount.” Knowing that no one
would be allowed to enjoy this estate who had not at
first agreed to these rules of action— and realizing that
the palace with its surrounding attractions belonged to
another and was freely offered to you for your use,—
subject however, to your acceptance of the rules of con­
duct governing those who occupied it,— you would surely
be most anxious to not misuse this gift nor be barred from
its benefits by your failure to abide by the established
laws of conduct.
However, suppose you happened by chance occurrence,
quite beyond your control, to make your first entrance
into the palace by way of the kitchen door. You are met
by one who has also been given the privilege of occupancy,
— subject to the established rules of conduct and with no
greater or lesser privileges than you,— and yet he meets
you at the kitchen door with a ball and chain in his hands,
which he fastens on your ankle. After fastening the other
end of the chain at a point in the room where he knows
that it will prevent you from getting out of the kitchen,
he hands you a dish rag and tells you that the kitchen is
now your home, and that it is the only part of the palace
you are supposed to occupy. Knowing that you have been
given the “ equal use” of everything the estate contains,—
and any rooms in the palace you might desire to enjoy,—
you rebel at your confinement and gradually grow filled
with bitterness, yet no ways of escape or means of break­
ing your chain present themselves.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D m
Under such circumstances, do you think that you could
ever grow to really appreciate or know and truly love this
beautiful home? Instead, wouldn't you after a time grow
to almost hate your life, and also the one who had offered
you the use of his lovely estate, feeling that somehow it
had not been offered to you in good faith at all? However,
if your friend happened to be traveling in a far-off country
and you did not know how to communicate with him,
wouldn't you finally welcome even death itself as a means
of escape?
If, after a time, there were ten people chained up in the
kitchen, and only “ one” free to come and go throughout
the palace, while the rest of you did the work, how long,
do you suppose, would the ten of you “ smilingly” take “ his”
statement and assurances that the home was just as much
yours as his, and that you should be very grateful for it,
and should sing praises all the day long to the owner—
your mutual friend— who had so graciously granted you the
use of his great estate?
If each day the one who was free would come into the
kitchen,— (and after telling you how fortunate you were
to have the use of the palace, he would then steal even
the few particles of food you had been able to gather—
and would torture and beat you for objecting to his cruelty)
— aren’t you inclined to think that you would spend your
every waking hour in an attempt to figure out some way
of breaking your chains? Knowing that the one who was
free could not possibly bind you all at one time, and
that once free you would never again be chained to the
drudgery you had experienced, DO YO U THINK TH A T
134 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
YO U W OULD HESITATE TO AGREE W ITH EACH
OF THE OTHER TEN CHAINED IN THE KITCHEN
W ITH YOU, T H A T W HEN YOU ALL H A D GAINED
Y O U R FREEDOM, YO U W OU LD “EQUALLY”
SHARE THE NECESSARY DUTIES OF M A IN TA IN ­
ING THE ESTATE, PROVIDED YO U ALSO WERE
ASSURED BY EACH OF THE TEN T H A T YOU
W OU LD BE ALLOW ED TO ENJOY ALL OF ITS
ATTRACTIO N S LIKEWISE EQUALLY?
You surely wouldn’t fear the one unchained and free
tenant, “once ‘you all’ had won your freedom and broken
your chains,” — but — knowing his selfishness, greed and
brutality, “you would wait until you all had broken your
chains,” before attempting to insist that he either do his
share of the work or leave the palace to those who were
willing to do so. Once you all were free, he wouldn’t be a
problem for your entire group, but if you tried to attack
him singly he might. Being more familiar with the arrange­
ment of the rooms in the palace, he could easily arrange a
surprise attack and tie each of you up again, one by one,
if you became separated from your group. Therefore,
while you were chained up in the kitchen together, “and
with ample day by day proofs of the free tenant’s selfish­
ness and cruelty,” you would of course agree when free,
to stay together in “ one group,” so that when you finally
located him you would have no trouble in forcing him
to either abide by the rules of conduct established for those
who had been given the equal use of the palace, or insist
that he go off to some corner of the grounds and live by
himself. HOW EVER, EVEN HIS FORMER CRUEL-
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 135
TIES W OU LD N O T W A R R A N T YO U IN MAKING
A SLAVE OF HIM, N O R IN DISOBEYING THE
ESTATE’S “ GOLDEN RULES” OF CONDUCT,—
EVEN TH OU GH REVENGE MIGHT ALM OST SEEM
TO BE JUSTIFIED.
This little illustration describes the experiences of the
human race today, and indicates the steps mankind must
take, if they are ever to gain their freedom from the bond-
age and slavery forced upon them by the small handful
of the world’s citizens who have succeeded in enslaving
all of the rest of the earth’s inhabitants, and limiting their
use of the world and its infinitely varied resources by
shackles of poverty and the menial tasks of life. There is
no use in our attempting to attack the small group of fabu-
lously wealthy and powerful citizens who have the rest
of us in bondage, if we are going to do so singly or with'
out organization. They can never be forced to obey the
rules of life established by the wisdom of our Creator, until
those of us who are willing to abide by such rules, are
sufficiently large in number to insist upon obedience by
all, and an equal sharing of the world’s resources and
benefits as well as its duties. Until such a time, there is
little use in our expecting any privileges other than the
duties of the kitchen.
SHALL W E CONTINUE, CENTURY AFTER
CENTURY, FEEDING THE MONSTER CALLED
“ GREED;”— A MONSTER W H ICH IS FED W ITH
THE FIRST BORN OF OUR EVERY EFFORT, A N D
YET W H ICH W E ARE NEVER ABLE T O SATISFY?
136 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
The lust for power, wealth and flattery can never be
satisfied, nor can you chain it up and kill an occasional one
of its offspring, hoping thereby to put it under control.
The causes of greed and their malignant family,— “Selfish­
ness and Self-glorification,” — must be stricken from off the
face of this globe and never be allowed to return. Laws
must be passed which will effectually prevent the produc­
tion of any food upon which such monsters can feed.
Constant rotation in office— equal distribution of the pro­
ducts of mankind’s labor, and no individual ever again
allowed to gain power, wealth, or an insane sense of superi­
ority, constitute the only cure for greed and mad ambition.
RECOGNIZING T H A T MEN ARE STILL BUT
CHANGEABLE LITTLE CHILDREN IN THEIR
CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT, IT IS IMPERATIVE
T H A T A N ECONOMIC SYSTEM BE ESTABLISHED
W HICH WILL FOR ALL TIME T O COME PREVENT
THE WEAKNESSES OF H U M AN CHARACTER
FROM W ARPIN G A N D DISTORTING THE LIVES
OF THE BILLIONS UPON BILLIONS OF H UM AN
BEINGS, TO W H O M THE USE OF OUR GLORIOUS­
LY BEAUTIFUL W O RLD HOME IS EQUALLY
GRANTED.
Our arrow is not aimed at the heart of any individual
or any group of individuals upon this globe,—for there is
already far too great a variety of “class antagonism” and
“hate,”—but it is drawn, and straining to be released, that
it may pierce and destroy the vital spot of that world­
wide parent of man’s age-old woes,—that monster with the
many names called “Greed”—“Self-glorification”—"De-
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 137
praved Appetites” — “ Jealousy” — “ Envy” — “ Hate” —
“Murder”— “ Power” and “ Wasteful Wealth;”— in short,
THE W O RLD ’S “ GOLD A N D SILVER”— “PRIVATE
PROFIT” M ONETARY SYSTEM.
W e do not live our lives for the purpose of self'
glorification, for the Bible has truly stated that— “Ye shall
have no other Gods before Me.” Naught else should be
glorified— for there is nothing worthy of glorification that
is less in stature than the Creator of the entire universe,
and it is God and His complete Creation which we should
glorify,— not ourselves or some group of human beings.
Possibly we will have earned a little credit or honor, when,
— through united world efforts,— mankind have destroyed
the swamps of filthy environment, the bondage and slavery
to those indescribably cruel taskmasters— “ Poverty and
W ar”— which warp the souls of men and make them ab­
horrent.
W hen we have destroyed those forces which make
life so needlessly confused and hopeless, and cause men
to either fear or hate their lives so greatly that suicide
seems the only solution to their problems, and when thou-
sands of suicides no longer occur each day in this country
and other so-called civilized nations— and when peace and
security— trust— confidence— gratitude and appreciation of
each other’s efforts have uprooted the causes of mankind’s
broken dreams and broken hearts— possibly then, there
might be some slight justification for a “ little” self-glori­
fication.
Millions of tons of food are thrown away daily
in order that prices may be held up to a level where mani-
138 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
pulators in the world’s food supplies can gain a speculative
profit, while not only in the foreign so-called uncivilized
nations of the world, but also in our own country, people
are going hungry each day.
YES! W E CERTAINLY ARE A N ENLIGHTENED
PEOPLE, A N D OUR PRECIOUS PRIVATE PROFIT
SYSTEM A GREAT BOON TO M AN. THE W ORLD
HAS H A D THOUSANDS OF YEARS T O BRING
ABOUT SECURITY A N D PROTECTION OF THE
RIGHTS OF MEN,— TH ROUGH THE APPLICATION
OF THE SO-CALLED “ PROFIT” SYSTEM, UNDER
THE “ EACH - WOLF - FOR - HIMSELF PLAN,”— AN D
YET IT IS NO CLOSER TO T H A T RESULT TH AN
IT W A S 10,000 YEARS AGO, N O R W ILL IT BE
10,000 YEARS FROM N O W , UNLESS MANKIND
EVOLVE A SYSTEM CAPABLE OF PREVENTING
GREED A N D SELFISHNESS FROM LOCKING THE
DOORS OF OPPORTUNITY AG AIN ST THOSE
W H O OCCUPY OUR W ORLD.
“ M ANKIND UNITED”— ONE SINGLE BRO­
THERHOOD OF M AN — “ ONE FOR ALL A N D ALL
FOR ONE,” W IT H “ACTION S” AS WELL AS
“ W O RD S,” A N D THE W ORLD N O LONGER A
HOUSE DIVIDED AG AIN ST ITSELF,— A N D BUILT
UPON THE SHIFTING SANDS OF CHANGEABLE
HUM AN CHARACTER,— BUT FINALLY ERECTED
UPON A SYSTEM OF “ EQUALITY” A N D “ GU AR­
ANTEED SAFEGUARDS” AG AIN ST THE FRAIL­
TIES OF FALLIBLE H U M AN BEINGS, COMPRISES
THE ONLY PLAN W H ICH WILL EVER END
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 139
EITHER W A R S OR POVERTY. “SUCH IS THE
PROGRAM OF THE INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE
OF UNIVERSAL RESEARCH A N D ADM INISTRA­
TION.”
What is wrong with our “so-called leaders” through'
out the world,— with our executives and powerful men
of wealth? Have they become so coarsened through the
development of their dissipated and depraved senses, that
they can no longer see or hear the suffering going on
around about them? Do they no longer either “ see” or
“ hear,” or does the maintenance of their luxurious physical
ease mean more to them than the pitiable cries of hundreds
of millions of helpless hungry human beings? Billions of
men, women and little children who inhabit this planet
century after century— barely existing— living utterly hope­
less lives,— wretchedly oblivious to the gorgeous beauties
of this infinitely glorious universe— solely because of their
under-nourished souls, and starved little bodies,— and yet
we sing the praises of leaders who order us to destroy food
right before the eyes of these hunger tortured human
beings.
There is not “one” of the thousands of this world’s
competent executives, but who would be justifiably insulted
if his ability to produce food, clothes and homes for the
entire human family, and distribute them fairly and justly
to mankind, were questioned,— provided he could be given
absolute control of the production and distribution of the
world’s sources of supply, and ample facilities for distri­
buting them,— and was allowed to do so “ at actual cost
figures” without “ profit” or “ speculative returns” to any
140 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
one, but instead, for the “ equal benefit” of all. Then if the
world admittedly has sufficient executive talent, and recog­
nized inexhaustibly abundant resources, why don’t the
world’s executives use their talents for the accomplishment
of such a result, and why have they failed to do so through­
out the centuries?
Mankind can only blame their suffering upon the falsi­
ties of an economic system which encourages insane human
desires for personal glory, power or wealth, in those who
would otherwise possess the talents and ability with which
to meet the world’s problem of production and distribution,
and its educational and cultural development. “ There is
no other reason!”
M O RTAL M AN W A S NEVER INTENDED TO
BECOME A N INDIVIDUAL PERSONALIZED “ GOD
OR RULER,” W ITH THE POWER OF SLAVERY OR
FREEDOM, LIFE OR DEATH, OVER HIS FELLOW
BEINGS.
W e have throughout all of our earthly history made
the fatal mistake of permitting a sense of “ self-importance”
and “superiority” to be developed in men and women, and
after cultivating such a sense, we have placed in the hands
of such depraved, abnormal types of mentality, almost
“ unlimited power” and authority. This mistake has cost
mankind the loss of countless generations of painful pro­
gress out of poverty and filth, and as the result of it, one
civilization after another has been destroyed, during a per­
iod of thousands of years, by those who become insane
with the lust for more, and ever more wealth and power
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 141
Mankind’s division into tribes and nations with their
consequent development of armaments, machines and
powers of destruction, created under the lying guise of
“ self-preservation,”— (TH OUG H A LW A YS AC TU A L­
LY MACHINES OF CONQUEST, T H A T THE
W EALTH Y M IGH T GAIN MORE W EALTH AN D
“INSANE M ORAL IDIOTS” MORE PO W ER),— has,
throughout the centuries, created mountains of “ dynamite,”
with fuses scattered over the face of our planet. Anyone,
(for the moment feeling a bit like a Napoleon),— by ignit­
ing these fuses, could succeed in blowing up a civilization.
UP T O THIS PRESENT DATE IN HUM AN HISTORY
THERE HAS NEVER BEEN A CIVILIZATION CAP­
ABLE OF PREVENTING ITS O W N SELF-DESTRUC­
TION, AN D THERE NEVER WILL BE, UNTIL
ARMIES AN D MACHINES OF DESTRUCTION ARE
NO LONGER PERMITTED T O EXIST,— nor until
mankind is finally united into one unselfish brotherhood,
willing to live “ One for All and All for One”— with each
inhabitant of our planet desiring the security, independ­
ence and happiness of every other inhabitant— and willing
to do his part of the task of bringing about this universal
result; no one desiring nor striving for dominion over
another, nor any form of self-glorification; each one joy­
ously free, having an abundance of every good thing; and
glad to be alive and to live and let live, with no desire
for self-aggrandizement; each one striving to exceed his
own former accomplishments, and not attempting merely
to surpass those round about him;— not seeking to prove
his superiority “ over others,” but only his superiority over
his own former attainments.
142 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
A mad scramble, like so many “ wolves,”— to see who
can accumulate the greatest number and variety of posses-
sions, eat the most food, wear the most clothes, have the
most money,— does not constitute a type of ambition
worthy of “ intelligent creatures,” nor would man be moti­
vated by such false and unsatisfying goals were it not for
the limitations and forms of bondage forced upon him by
our existing economic system.
THE ONLY AMBITION W O R TH Y OF M AN, IS
T O CEASELESSLY STRIVE T O UNDERSTAND
FROM WHENCE HE CAME, W H Y HE IS HERE,
A N D THE ULTIMATE DESTINY AN D PURPOSE
OF LIFE; IN OTHER W ORDS, WHERE HE IS
GOING. Recognizing that all of human progress has
come “first in the form of an idea” appearing to the con­
sciousness of some individual,— either as a mechanical in­
vention, a new design for homes, or the vision of harmony
gained by way of a musical composition, a poem, or a
beautiful painting,— men should strive to understand more
about the source from whence ideas emanate. A LW A YS
H AS THE AVENUE,— THROUGH W H ICH EVERY
DESIRABLE OBJECT OF LIFE HAS REACHED M A N ­
KIND,— CONSISTED OF “MEN’S TH OU GH T PRO­
CESSES”— THE NATURE OF THEIR THINKING.
THE MOTIVES INSPIRING TH OU GH T— THE
VISIONS W H ICH PROM PT MEN TO STRIVE UN­
CEASINGLY TO W A R D S THE ATTAIN M EN T OF
SOME HIGH A N D W O R TH Y GOAL— H AVE ALL
COME BY W A Y OF TH OUGH T. IS IT N O T TRUE
THEN, T H A T THE ONLY AMBITION TRULY
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 143
W O R T H Y OF M AN, CONSISTS IN LEARNING
H O W TO “ TH INK” MORE CONSTRUCTIVELY,
MORE INSPIRINGLY, MORE BEAUTIFULLY? Inas­
much as such a statement is indisputably true, should not
“ the combined efforts of mankind” be directed towards the
establishment of an economic system and the passing of
laws, rules and regulations, controlling the conduct of men
in their relationships with one another, in such a manner
that no slightest hindrance or obstruction would even
momentarily delay man’s progress towards the goal of
intelligent right thinking? N O CONDITION SHOULD
BE PERMITTED T O EXIST W H ICH W OULD
FORCE US T O A LOW ER LEVEL IN THE USE OF
OUR TH OU GH T FACULTIES T H A N T H A T OF
W H ICH W E ARE W O R TH Y.
SURELY MEN ARE W O R TH Y OF THOUGHTS
OTHER TH AN JUST THOSE PERTAINING T O THE
ACCUM ULATION OF FOOD A N D THE SATISFAC­
TION OF THEIR ANIM AL DESIRES. W e do not
spend hours each day pumping air into warehouses, nor
keep hundreds of thousands of men and women busy
with bookkeeping entries to record the amount of air we
have accumulated, and yet it is very apparent that no one
on earth today has learned how to get along without air.
But the reason we are not ceaselessly contemplating the
importance of air, and morbidly concentrating our entire
efforts upon its accumulation, is traceable to the fact that
it exists in such limitless abundance that it is wholly un­
necessary to waste either time or effort thinking about its
accumulation,— other than to be sincerely grateful for the
fact that it is free for our use, and does not require any
144 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
struggle for us to each receive our individual share of it.
SURELY NEITHER FOOD N OR CLOTHES ARE
OF A N Y GREATER IM PORTANCE OR A N Y MORE
ESSENTIAL TO OUR EXISTENCE TH A N AIR!
THEN W H Y SHOULD IT BE, T H A T W E H AVE A D ­
VANCED N O FARTHER TH A N THE SAVAGES OF
ONE HUNDRED TH OUSAND (100,000) YEARS
AG O , WHOSE ENTIRE LIVES CONSISTED OF DE­
VISING W A Y S AN D MEANS OF GETTING FOOD;
— SINCE— W ITH OUR PRESENT D A Y MACHINERY
— THE EARTH COULD READILY BE M ADE TO
PRODUCE A HUNDRED TIMES MORE FOOD
EACH YEAR TH AN THE ENTIRE H UM AN RACE
COULD POSSIBLY REQUIRE OR USE.
Having been endowed with the priceless gift and
faculty— “ which enables us to think”— and thereby to exist
on a slightly higher mental plane than the animals of the
field,— “ whose thought processes consist wholly of physical
impulses and desires,”— why must we be forced to waste
this precious gift in living lives of no greater useful­
ness than the swine in their pigpens? W H Y M UST THE
MAJORITY OF THE W O R LD ’S “THINKING CREA­
TURES” BE FORCED BY A HANDFUL OF UTTERLY
SELFISH HUM AN BEINGS, TO LEAVE N O MORE
W O R TH Y RECORD OF THEIR EXISTENCE “TH AN
THE CAST-OFF PHYSICAL BODY” TO W HICH
THEY HAVE B E E N COMPELLED TO DEVOTE
THEIR ENTIRE THOUGHTS, EFFORTS A N D LIVES
— (TO FEED, CLOTHE, AN D HOUSE IT )— AN D
YET, W HICH , W HEN THEY DIE, DOES N O T OF
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 145
ITSELF LEAVE A N Y GREATER OR MORE LAST'
ING PROOF OF ITS VALUE, TH A N THE PHYSICAL
BODY OF EVEN THE LEAST INTELLIGENT OF
GOD’S CREATURES?
Surely there must be some more permanent proof,—
“than just their cast-off physical bodies,”— that the people
of each generation can leave in evidence of the fact that
they possessed “the faculty of thought,”— even if such
proof consisted only in larger and more beautiful parks,
more inspiring poems, songs and paintings capable of
raising the level of thought of our descendants slightly
above that which we occupied!
After all of men’s thousands of years of endless
struggles,— “ out of complete and utter mental darkness and
animalic desires,”— to a level upon which they have made
such marvelous discoveries that,— if they would use them,—
they would no longer need to give even “ a passing thought”
to how they are going to get food or clothes or homes,—
surely the people of this enlightened age are worthy of
such discoveries! W H Y SHOULDN’T W E MEASURE
UP T O THE LIMITLESS POTENTIALITIES OF PRO­
GRESS, STRETCHING ETERNALLY BEFORE OUR
GAZE, A N D CEASE THINKING ON A LEVEL W ITH
THE HERDS OF SWINE W H ICH OCCUPY OUR
PIGPENS?
Surely,— even though we have made an art of such
things,— we can occasionally raise our thoughts above food,
or clothes,— what we are going to wear or how we are
going to dress our hair,— the shape or design of our shoes
— or the variety and preparation of our food,— and have
146 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
time to give some slight thought to the discovery of what
talents we may possess, and to their development, that we
may leave some worthy evidence of having been thinking
creatures,— when we finally pass on beyond the gaze of our
associates.
W hy must we,— who call ourselves “ The Children of
God,” and “Intelligent Thinking Beings,”— spend our en­
tire lives working to feed and perpetuate an economic
system which raises to its positions and offices of leader­
ship, those men and women who have least advanced be­
yond the level of the lowest forms of animal life, and
whose every impulse and ambition consists of the “ swinish
lusts of the flesh,”— an insane driving force which causes
them to use all of their wealth and power and influence,
solely for the accumulation of vast quantities of food,
clothes and luxuries, which neither they nor their children,
nor their “ children’s children,” could possibly consume
or use,— even with the most fully developed of depraved
appetites,— during a period of thousands of years?
W hy do we raise those who are still no more than
animals,— in their thinking processes,— to positions of
leadership, and give them the power to keep the rest of
us on a level of life where we are forced to waste our price­
less natural talents and thought faculties upon ways and
means of getting even “ the barest necessities" of life?
W hy, when every boy or girl in every civilized nation
on this globe, dreams of great accomplishments and goals
worthy of intelligent creatures, must they be forced, even
before they have attained to their maturity, to adjust their
ambitions to studies and mental development unworthy of
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 147
any creatures other than wolves or pigs? W hy must they
be forced to learn only those things which will enable
them,— like wolves tearing at each other’s throats, or pigs
pushing other pigs aside with their snouts,— to express
their priceless faculty of thought solely for the accumula-
tion of food, clothes and material possessions, when our
present-day machinery could produce a hundred times more
of these things than the entire human race could possibly
consume?
W ITH BUT A SMALL PERCENTAGE OF THE
EARTH'S INHABITANTS REQUIRED T O DEVOTE
THEIR THOUGHTS AN D EFFORTS,— (LARGELY
IN A SUPERVISORY C A PA CITY),— THE W O R LD ’S
MARVELOUS INVENTIONS, “ F U L L Y USED,”
COULD RESULT IN A PRODUCTION OF SUCH
V A ST QUANTITIES OF THE SO-CALLED NECES­
SITIES AN D LUXURIES OF LIFE, T H A T MEN
W OULD N O LONGER BE OBLIGED T O GIVE A N Y
MORE TH OU GH T TO THEIR ACCUM ULATION,
TH A N THEY W O U LD T O THE ACCUM ULATION
OR STORAGE OF THE AIR W E BREATHE,
Is it not “ barely possible” that man freed from the
endless struggle for food,— (which would eternally keep
him on a level with the lowest forms of animal life),—
might possibly make discoveries, and produce results in the
form of engineering and cultural attainments worthy of
the creative quality of mentality with which he is indis­
putably endowed? W ith thousands of millions of men and
women— all freed and enabled to release the creative quali­
ties of their thoughts in grand and noble attainments—
148 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
is it not possible,— (compared to the results of the few
dozen men and women who now leave a record of out­
standing accomplishments each century),— that the sum
total attainments of the people,— “not just of each century,
but of every generation,” — might be so startlingly grand,
and gloriously beautiful, that there would shortly come to
pass the fulfillment of Christ Jesus’ teachings, and men
might learn that “The Kingdom of Heaven is not afar off,”
neither “ up nor down,”— “ East nor West”— “North nor
South,” “but here at hand,” and ready at any time to be
“ fully expressed?”
W HEN THE GREAT MASTER STATED,— “ THE
KINGDOM OF HEAVEN IS W ITH IN YOU,”— SURE­
LY HE DID N O T MEAN THE BONES A N D MEM­
BRANES, N OR THE BLOOD W HICH FLOWS
THROUGH OUR BODIES; HE COULD ONLY HAVE
M E A N T “ OUR C R E A T I V E FACULTY OF
TH OU GH T,” A N D TH ROU GH THE EXPRESSION
OF W HICH, ENDLESS DISCOVERIES OF GLORIOUS
BEAUTY W OU LD BE A LW A YS A T H AN D FOR
US TO ENJOY. IS IT SACRILEGIOUS THEN TO
THINK T H A T MEN M IGHT EVEN OVERCOME
“ DEATH ITSELF,” INASM UCH AS CHRIST JESUS
RAISED THE DEAD A N D REFERRED T O DEATH
AS “ AN ENEMY” W H ICH W E W OU LD EVENTU­
ALLY DESTROY? Is it not possible that sickness and all
of its causes would shortly be done away with, and that
grief and human suffering would no longer be a concomi­
tant of life, if men were no longer filled with the fear of
poverty, and could unite their talents for purposes other
than the mere accumulation of food?
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 149
Men and women who are truly grateful that they
possess the faculties of “ thought,”— instead of merely an
accumulation of the lower forms of animal instincts and
desires,— should “ combine” their talents, strength, and
“ entire resources,”— and if necessary, “ dedicate their very
lives” to the establishment of an economic system which
will no longer invite into public office, any man or woman
motivated by the slightest particle of selfish personal desire
for wealth or power. IS IT N O T TIME T H A T SUCH
OF THE W O RLD ’S POPULATION AS ARE DESIR­
OUS OF THE PRIVILEGES OF FREEDOM OF
THOUGHT, SPEECH A N D ACTION , FINALLY
UNITE THEIR STRENGTH IN ONE GREAT BODY,
ENCIRCLING THE ENTIRE EARTH, AN D NO
LONGER REQUEST, “ BUT DEM AND,” THE RIGHT
TO LIVE AS INTELLIGENT CREATURES SHOULD
LIVE, A N D T O BE GRANTED THE BENEFITS OF
THE INVENTIONS AN D DEVELOPMENTS OF RE­
CENT YEARS, T H A T THEY M IGHT N O LONGER
BE FORCED T O W ASTE THEIR ENTIRE LIVES IN
STRUGGLING FOR THOSE THINGS W H ICH CAN,
— T O A LARGE EXTENT,— BE PRODUCED BY
NON-THINKING MACHINES?
Recognizing the fact that there are hundreds of mil­
lions of industrious and intelligent clear-thinking men and
women, who are fully aware of the availability of economic
freedom and complete financial independence, would we be
worthy of receiving such freedom, if we were unwilling
to become acquainted with such people, and to associate
with them?
150 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
Knowing that over two hundred million (200,000,000)
intelligent and industrious men and women can receive the
message contained in this bulletin within a matter of
months,— as each one to whom it is given assumes the res­
ponsibility of placing it in the hands of others,— and know-
ing that when said number of people have received this
announcement, that information will then be placed in their
hands which will enable them to form into “ one vast united
working force;”— knowing that when this world-wide
organization has been fully formed, the buying power of
its members will exceed one thousand million dollars
($1000,000,000.00) per day,— (based upon their actual
cash expenditures at this time),— and knowing that with
this buying power, such an organization, “ equally-owned”
and “ equally-controlled” by each of its two hundred mil­
lion (200,000,000) members, could vote into existence a
system which would permanently outlaw— “ not only war
— but also poverty;”— KN OW IN G THESE THINGS,
ARE W E SO “DULL OF M IND” AN D “ BROKEN
OF SPIRIT,” T H A T W E H AVE NEITHER THE MEN­
TA L ENERGY NOR PHYSICAL VITA LITY LEFT,
W ITH W H ICH TO RAISE OUR VOICES IN BEHALF
OF SUCH A RESULT?
The International Institute of Universal Research and
Administration believes that the right-thinking, clear-
minded men and women of the world, are awake to the
potentialities and possibilities of “ world-wide unity of ac-
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 151
tion,” not as a conglomeration of antagonistic movements,
but as “a world-wide association of intelligent men and
women ” meeting on the common ground of identical aspir­
ations and ideals of true brotherhood and freedom; and ir­
respective of race, color, class, or religious beliefs, willing to
become part owners in a world-wide corporation capable of
supplying their individual as well as their collective needs;
— two hundred million (200,000,000) men and women
willing to occupy positions with said corporation, in accord­
ance with their individual talents and training, and willing,
after expending of their respective abilities, to receive an
equal share of the sum total products of their united labors.
Just as thinking creatures make no complaint over the
amount of air breathed by their fellow beings, nor have
any desire to receive a greater abundance of air than
another, so likewise should we be intelligent enough to
realize that when the necessities and luxuries of life are
produced in such large quantities that we could not even
use “ the smallest part” of our own share of them, we need
hardly begrudge others the privileges of similar abundance.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 153
CHAPTER X.
THE PRICELESS GIFT OF LIFE
AN D
W H A T W E D O W ITH IT
The human race seems to be so busily engaged in
honoring and glorifying “so-called great men,” that it has
had no time to glorify “the greatness of the creative source”
from which “ all things,” including “ our own lives ” as well
as “ our entire universe,” have emanated. A source and
Creator whose limitless wisdom and glorious creations make
the handiwork of even the world’s combined great thinkers
and great doers of all of the many centuries of human pro­
gress, seem but the puny efforts of a colony of ants.
Throughout all past centuries, up to and including the pre­
sent era, the human race has glorified its “ great men,”— and
while sacrificing “ the very souls” of its billions upon billions
of men, women and helpless little children upon the altar
of its murderous and insane theory of “ the survival of the
fittest,”— it has wasted its energies glorifying those who,
(with but few exceptions),— climb above the masses— not
because of their benevolent accomplishments, BUT PRI­
M ARILY BECAUSE OF THEIR DOMINEERING BRU­
TALITY, GREED AN D UTTER SELF-CENTERED­
NESS.
W e have, throughout countless ages, broken the
hearts, and spirits of “ billions” of men and women, that
154 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
we might retain the questionable privilege of bowing down
in sacrilegious worship to a handful of egotists, insane
with an uncontrollable desire for “self-glorification.” In­
stead of evolving an economic system which would enable
“ all mankind” to fully develop their God-given talents and
abilities, we waste our lives and energies glorifying a hand­
ful of people whom we raise to “imaginary heights of
grandeur,” and then stand in awe-inspired contemplation
of their “vast” and “ limitless” wisdom. Worshiping human
leaders who have yet to ever make “even an attempt” to
try and evolve an economic system capable of “ guaran­
teeing” food, clothes, homes, and an “ equality of oppor­
tunity for self-development,” to the people of every land,
and every class, and every religion. If “ even one” of these
“ World Rulers” or “ Industrial Magnates,” had really at­
tempted to obey “ The Golden Rule,” or measure up,—
“ even ever so slightly,” — to Christ Jesus’ Sermon on the
Mount, they could,— with their limitless wealth and influ­
ence,— have brought to pass an economic system which
would long centuries ago have ended both war and poverty.
HOW EVER, W E IDOLIZE AN D GLORIFY THEM—
N O T FOR ENDING W A R AN D POVERTY BUT FOR
SUCCESSFULLY PERPETUATING THESE EVILS.
Napoleon Bonaparte and countless other men before
and since his time, are remembered and glorified— (?)—
not for the happiness, peace and security they brought
into the lives of mankind, “but for the number of men
they killed,” and for their success in burdening with debt,
for endless generations, the men and women who would
have to pay the bills of their extravagant and insane whole­
sale slaughter of human life.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 155
What has continued the injustices, wars, poverty and
uncertainties of our present economic system, if it is not
greed, selfishness and the cruel ambitions of a few men
or women each century, who find— thereby— that they can
rise to power and prominence, or attain a questionable
form of recognition and honor, because of their brutality
and cruelty?
Is it not a fact that mankind— by now— should have
learned that we did not create either ourselves or this in-
finitely glorious and eternal universe which we call our
home, and that if any honor or glory is due for our ex­
istence here,— then ordinary, every-day curiosity,— (if we
as yet possess no higher instincts),— should most certainly
prompt us to make some slight effort to learn who or what
our “ Creator” is, and to glorify “ Him,”— “ not man”—
who is but the child of that source from whence all things
within the universe have come?
Is it not time that we ceased magnifying the import­
ance, or wisdom, or power of any mortal man, who today
is— yet tomorrow when we look around,— “ like the grass
of the fields,”— he is shriveled up, passed away and no
longer to be found? There must surely be something more
dependable, stable and worthy of glorification than the
usually selfish and “ always vacillating” embodiment called
a mortal man!
BEFORE W E CAN EVEN STA R T BEING
W O R TH Y OF H ONOR, W E W OU LD FIRST H AVE
TO EXPRESS “ CHANGELESS W ISDOM ,” — THE
DEPENDABLE GOODNESS OF “DIVINE LOVE,”—
THE UNALTERABLE PERFECTION OF “ ETERNAL
156 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
TRU TH ,” — A N D W E ARE QUITE SURE TH A T
“ NONE OF US HAS, AS YET, REACHED SUCH
HEIGHTS OF GRANDEUR.”
Do you not believe it is high time that all of us com'
menced thinking more along the lines of those things
which will make us worthy of at least our own “ self-
respect,” before we seek honor and glory from our fellows?
Have we the courage or unselfish love for our brother man
which enables us to see the suffering of our fellow beings
on every side, and prompts us to an “ uncontrollable desire,”
to relieve it and bring them happiness? If we have not,
then we do not yet deserve even “self-respect,” since the
world today possesses such limitless means of ready com-
munication with our fellow beings, that there is no longer
any justifiable excuse for our failure to bring any wide-
spread sufferings we might observe, to the attention of
mankind, with a constructively worked-out remedy and
solution for such problems.
W e claim to be intelligent creatures, and to have “ eyes
with which to see ” and “ ears with which to hear” — there­
fore it must surely be most apparent to us all, that the
world’s present facilities of production and distribution
have permanently eliminated whatever excuses may have
seemed to exist in the past, for the wholesale slaughter we
call “ War,” or the still greater suffering and loss of life
which the word “ Poverty” describes.
Instead of blowing trumpets in honor of the world’s
false leaders who have used their power, wealth, and influ­
ence to murder our loved ones, (with carefully planned
revolutions, wars and depressions), let us sing our praises
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 157
in honor of the “ Omniscient,” “ Omnipotent” and “ Om­
nipresent Creator,” — towards whom we have shown so
little honest “ respect,” “ gratitude” or “ love,” throughout
the ages of mankind’s sojourn upon this planet.
NO ONE W IT H EYES T O SEE OR EARS TO
H E A R THE AG O N IZIN G CRIES OF HELPLESS
LITTLE CHILDREN, A N D BROKEN - SPIRITED
FEAR-STRICKEN MEN A N D W OMEN, THE W ORLD
OVER, HAS TIME OR THE DESIRE T O BE H O N O R­
ED OR PRAISED. SUCH A ONE IS QUITE T O O
BUSY TRYING T O FIND A N D DESTROY THE
ROOTS OF THOSE THINGS FROM W H ICH SPRING
THE CAUSES OF H U M AN ITY’S STRUGGLES A N D
WOES; QUITE TO O BUSY T O “EITHER DESIRE”
OR “H AVE TIME” FOR SELF-GLORIFICATION.
For a few years at least, we believe that all of us,
“including our so-called great men and women,” might
well profit by the example of those few throughout the
centuries, who have,— (being truly worthy of honor),—
been “ much too busy” helping their less fortunate brothers,
to take the time to “ even receive” the honors prepared for
them by their appreciative followers.
This book has been written for those whom we
believe will agree with us, that it is time all right-thinking
men and women on this globe formed into one compact
group,— (waiving and forfeiting all chances of individual
glorification, wealth, power or honor),— and dedicated their
lives to the “ sole purpose” of uprooting and wiping out
for all time to come, the world’s accursed “ humanly-
158 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
planned,” and “ humanly-perpetuated” causes of poverty
and war.
ONLY A PROFOUNDLY SINCERE DESIRE ON
THE PART OF EVERY ONE OF THE MILLIONS OF
INTELLIGENT MEN A N D W OM EN TH ROUGHOUT
THE MAJOR NATIONS OF THE EARTH, A N D
ONLY “ W ORLD-W IDE UNITY OF ACTION ,” WILL
BE “ POWERFUL ENOUGH” T O UPROOT THE
CAUSES OF M ANKIND’S “HUM ANLY PERPETU­
ATED ” TRIBULATIONS.
None of us can as yet stop the sun in its course, or
cause the tides to recede before their time, and the dif­
ference between even the most brilliant man or woman on
this globe and a South African savage, is still very slight.
No one need feel greatly abused if he is not honored above
the rest of his brothers, for after all none of us are worthy
of even very much of our own “ self-respect,” to say nothing
of “ special recognition” or “ public acclaim.” Any im­
pulse man might have to sing praises, or to glorify some­
thing, had better— for the present— be devoted to “ humble
prayers” and psalms to “ Our Creator,” in evidence of our
recognition of the indescribably glorious, and priceless gift
of “ Consciousness”— “ Life”— the capacity to “See”— and
to some slight extent, “ Understand”— God’s limitless crea­
tions and gifts of love prepared for our happiness, and
so abundantly surrounding our lives.
All of this brings us to just one point: Wouldn’t it
truly be a relief to become more “ childlike”— to give up the
age-old struggle for “Superiority” and to live for the clean,
wholesome joy of just “Living,” and really “Strive” to be-
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 159
come worthy of the “ priceless" gift of life;— to have time
and unlimited opportunity for travel, and to learn to know
and to love this gloriously beautiful world of ours; to work
to make it ever cleaner and more beautiful as man’s home,
and then to strive that we may individually become daily
“ superior to ourself” of yesterday, instead of merely
“ superior to others;” seeking not to “ surpass one another,”
but only to overcome the weaknesses of that “ most opaque”
of all human qualities— “ self-love?”
THE TIME A N D EFFORT MEN H AVE SPENT
TH ROU GHO UT THE AGES TRYING T O ACCUM U­
LATE POSSESSIONS W H ICH THEY KNEW THEY
COULD NEVER TAKE W IT H THEM W HEN THEY
LEFT; — A N D STRIVING FOR THOSE THINGS
W H ICH THEY KNEW THEY COULD N O T POS­
SIBLY NEED, A N D W H ICH THEY USUALLY D O
N O T EVEN W A N T AFTER THEY GET THEM; (O R
STRIVING T O GAIN H O N O R OR GLORY BELONG­
ING N O T T O THEMSELVES, BUT T O THEIR
CREATO R), — W OULD, — IF THEY H A D SPENT
THE SAME INTENSITY OF EFFORT T O IMPROVE
THE LIVES OF THEIR FELLOWMEN, — H AVE
TURNED THIS OLD W O RLD OF OURS IN TO A
VERITABLE “ GARDEN OF EDEN,” A N D MEN IN­
TO BEINGS TRULY W O R T H Y OF OCCUPYING IT
— M AN Y, M AN Y CENTURIES AGO.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 161
CHAPTER XI.
SHALL W E BE MASTER BUILDERS
OR
MASTER MURDERERS
“EXTERM INATION” OR “ ECONOMIC EQUALITY”
?
-------MANKIND MUST CHO OSE-------
What do you think would happen if every one on this
earth today would put aside the struggle for individual
financial superiority over others for just ten short years?
What do you think would happen if all would unite their
efforts for the purpose of supplying each family on this
earth with a beautiful home, with enough to eat and to
wear— with beautiful surroundings and lovely parks in
which to spend generous leisure hours, and would build
the facilities with which to enable “all people” to travel
throughout the world to its many points of interest and
beauty; . . . . would establish educational institutions in
order that all might be enlightened regarding those things
worthy of man’s investigation and understanding; and then
would strive to live as one great family— “ One for All
and All for One”— with no “ superiority” or “ inferiority”
complexes ever allowed to develop; . . . . “ all people”
helping to provide opportunities for the cultivation of
strong constructive traits of character which would enable
them to look forward with joy,— and “ limitless” expecta­
tions of happiness,— to their lives, instead of cultivating
the weaker qualities of character and the enslaving false
appetites which inevitably result in a loathing of one’s self,
162 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
and a final hatred of life— (one’s own life and experiences,
as well as others)? . . . . W hat do you think would hap­
pen if we would develop an educational system which
would help to make us ambitious for the future of “man­
kind” and capable of working for “humanity’s benefit” and
not just our own; . . . . and finally, instead of teaching
children that the primal object of life, (and the main pur­
pose for which they live), is to “ make more money,” or
to “gain fame and public acclaim” because of their “superi­
ority” over others— teach them rather that their only am­
bition should be to each day be a little “kinder,” a little
“finer” in their thoughts and speech and actions— a little
“ cleaner” — a little “stronger”— a little “ more grateful” to
their Creator for their lives and for the universe He has
given them as their home;— and each day a little “ more
worthy” of the countless blessings existing here on our
earth in limitless abundance and variety for man’s use; . . .
AG AIN W E ASK, IF THESE WERE M ANKIND’S
GOALS, W OU LD N O T THE W ORLD — SOON
THEREAFTER — BE TRANSFORMED IN TO THE
GARDEN OF EDEN, — “ THE HEAVEN” W E ALL
ENJOY THINKING OF AS OUR ETERNAL HOME?
LET US UNITE O U R EFFORTS FOR THE PUR­
POSE OF PROVIDING “ EQUALITY OF OPPORTUN­
ITY FOR ALL,” A N D THEN W HEN THE TIME
COMES T O PASS ALON G T O ANOTHER EXPER­
IENCE, W E SHALL N O T H AV E T O BE ASHAMED
OF THE USE T O W H ICH W E H AV E PUT LIFE’S
“ PRICELESS GIFT” OF INTELLIGENCE, — NOR
ASHAM ED OF THE W A Y W E H AVE LIVED
OUR LIVES.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 163
Mankind seem to be laboring under the false impres­
sion that there are not enough of the necessary or desir­
able things of life for everyone on this globe, and that
therefore each man must struggle with someone else for
what he needs or wants, and that only those who are
stronger than their fellows can possibly survive this struggle.
Can you not see how either this “ conscious” or “ subcon­
scious” attitude of mind has, throughout the centuries,
caused fear, greed, selfishness, envy, jealousy, resentment,
hate, robbery and murder to occur among individuals—
resulting in feuds between families and groups, and finally,
— (as this attitude expands and takes hold of communities
and nations),— the all-consuming flames of jealousy, envy,
hate and fear of the people of one nation towards those
of another, bring to pass the wars of each generation?
And do you not see that these qualities of thought are
perpetuated largely by those who acquire “ financial gain”
from doing so?
Do you not see how the citizens of the various nations
are taught to believe that they must go out in armies and
kill one another, in order that they may weaken the ones
from whom they may desire to steal some possession which
they have been “ mesmerized” into thinking they can get
in no other way,— or that they must “ kill” in order to pro­
tect their own possessions which they have been taught to
think someone might attempt to take from them? It is
not difficult to recognize the fact that jealousy, envy, fear,
or hate, constitute the “ primal causes” of crime, murder
and war. NOR IS IT DIFFICULT T O RECOGNIZE
THE FACT T H A T M A N Y OF THE W O RLD ’S MOST
WEALTFIY A N D INFLUENTIAL FAMILIES DERIVE
164 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
THEIR “ ENTIRE PROFITS” FROM STIMULATING
A N D PERPETUATING THESE QUALITIES OF
H UM AN TH OUGH T, IN ORDER T H A T W ARS
M A Y BE FOUGHT, A N D TH A T THE ARM AM ENTS
AN D MERCHANDISE OF W A R IN W H ICH THEY
DEAL, M A Y BE BOUGHT FROM THEM.
MENTIONING ONLY ONE OF THE BY-PROD­
UCTS OF THESE FALSE TEACHINGS, W E REMIND
YO U OF A FACT W H ICH IS H ARDLY LESS IM­
PO RTAN T TH A N THE HUMANLY-PLANNED AN D
DIRECTED CAUSES OF W A R ;— NAMELY, TH A T
THE W O R LD ’S LEADING PSYCHIATRISTS AN D
PHYSICIANS— AS WELL AS ITS M OST PROMI­
NENT METAPHYSICIANS, — ARE UNANIMOUS
IN THEIR AGREEMENT T H A T THESE SAME
QUALITIES OF FEAR, ENVY, JEALOUSY AND
HATE, “ CAUSE THE GREATER PART OF M A N ’S
PHYSICAL AILMENTS,” A N D “ THE DEPLETION
OF HIS ENERGIES ” AS WELL AS THE DEGENER­
A TIO N OF HIS CHARACTER.
Looking still further into this struggle to accumulate
possessions, we find it causing two distinct qualities of
character in men, and both of them abominable and totally
unworthy of any intelligent creature; namely, “inferiority”
or “ superiority” complexes of thought. The one who,
through lack of educational or cultural opportunities, has
developed a sense of self-depreciation— or who starts losing
his individual battle in mankind’s needless struggle for
existence— is soon forced into a belief of being inferior.
W ith his spirit broken, his confidence in himself completely
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 165
destroyed, (and without even attempting to estimate his
“incalculable” loss of happiness or his loneliness and grief),
such a one becomes just so much “ dead timber” — a lifeless
“ dead weight” and burden on the shoulders of mankind;
— hopeless and ceasing to try, he soon becomes useless to
himself and everyone else.
However, the fact of the matter is, that in nine hun­
dred and ninety-nine instances of ordinarily intelligent men
or women out of every one thousand whose spirits have
been broken, their failures merely evidence a lack of the
necessary talent or ability to keep up their end of the
“ wolfish struggle” for food. But this does not necessarily
mean that they might not have found happiness and be­
come useful to themselves and to the world in some en­
tirely different direction,— for there is ample reason to
believe that every individual on this globe possesses some
quality of intelligence of value to the human race, and
there is not the slightest question but that the world’s so-
called failures would, in the majority of cases, never have
been forced to acknowledge their inferiority had they been
helped and educated to find their place in the scheme of
things in an activity they could enjoy expressing.
W H O ARE W E TO JUDGE OTHERS? IS IT N O T
POSSIBLE T H A T EVERY ONE OF THE COUNTLESS
BILLIONS OF MEN AN D W OM EN TH ROUGHOUT
THE CENTURIES— (W H O H AVE M ADE A FAIL­
URE OF LIFE) — W OU LD H AVE ADDED IM ­
MEASURABLY T O THE SUM TO TAL— N O T ONLY
OF THEIR O W N HAPPINESS— BUT TO T H A T OF
THE ENTIRE H UM AN RACE, H AD THEY BEEN
166 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
GIVEN THE AD VAN TAG ES W HICH W OU LD
H AVE DEVELOPED THEIR PARTICULAR TA L­
ENTS OR ABILITIES?
MULTIPLY BY ONE MILLION, THE BEAUTI­
FUL POEMS, THE GLORIOUS PAINTINGS AN D
INSPIRING MUSICAL COMPOSITIONS OF TFIE
PAST ONE HUNDRED (100) YEARS; . . . A D D TO
THIS TO TAL “ A MILLION TIMES” THE NUMBER
OF INVENTIONS AN D DISCOVERIES IN THE
HELDS OF CHEMISTRY, PHYSICS, AN D THE
ENGINEERING SCIENCES OF THE DAY,— AN D
THEN YOU M A Y START TO UNDERSTAND
W H A T THE “EACH W OLF FOR HIMSELF” PRI­
VATE PROFIT SYSTEM HAS COST MANKIND.
AN D YET THIS TO TA L W OU LD BE BUT THE
SMALLEST FRACTIONAL PART OF THE ACTU AL
V O L U M E OF BENEFITS W H ICH M ANKIND
MIGHT N O W BE ENJOYING, H A D EVERY M AN
A N D W O M A N ON OUR GLOBE BEEN ENCOUR­
AGED AN D HELPED T O FULLY DEVELOP THEIR
LATENT POWERS A N D N ATU RAL TALENTS!
THIS BRIEF ILLUSTRATION M A Y HELP ONE TO
GAIN SOME “SLIGHT” COMPREHENSION OF THE
LOSS TO MANKIND, A N D THE OPPORTUNITIES
FOR HAPPINESS O U T OF W H ICH W E HAVE
BEEN CHEATED BY THOSE W H O H AVE PER­
MITTED THE PERPETUATION OF A SYSTEM
BUILT UPON THE THEORY OF “THE SURVIVAL
OF THE FITTEST;”— A THEORY W O R TH Y ONLY
OF “SWINE” W ITH THEIR SNOUTS IN TROUGHS
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 167
OF SWILL, O R “PACKS OF W O L V E S” TEARING
A T THE TH RO ATS OF LESS FEROCIOUS ANIMALS.
Is it not possible that “ all of us” are created to add
something of value— (and that we each really have some­
thing to add)— to the happiness and welfare of the entire
human race as well as to our own families or ourselves?
Is it not possible that nothing more is needed than the re­
moval from around the roots of each one’s life, of the
weeds of fear, envy, jealousy and hate, in order that there
may be revealed the useful natural qualities and talents
possessed in abundant measure by even the most lowly of
human beings?
A garden is surely lovelier when it is aglow with a
variety of shades of color and beauty, than when it is over­
grown with weeds, and with but an occasional blossom able
to survive. So, also will this world become a place of
greater beauty and loveliness, when each one of its occu­
pants receives the advantages which will cultivate latent
abilities and truly constructive qualities of character.
W hen the weeds of fear, envy, jealousy and hate are
permanently uprooted and forever destroyed, and one's
mental and bodily unfoldment takes place in an atmosphere
of brotherly love and good will, instead of rivalry and
distrust, what a vision of joyous beauty our world will
soon become.
W hy shouldn’t mankind build an economic system
which would help them to develop into that which they
were ordained by their Creator to become? Surely men
are not just animals, ceaselessly struggling and fighting to
prove their superiority over one another!
168 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
SINCE GREED — FEAR — ENVY — JEALOUSY
— AN D HATE LEAD T O DEPRAVITY, DISEASED
MINDS, SICK BODIES — CRIME — MURDER AN D
W A R , W H Y D O N ’T W E UPROOT T H A T W HICH
CONSTITUTES THEIR ORIGIN; NAMELY, “POVER­
TY AN D ECONOMIC INEQUALITY?” W H Y D O N ’T
W E A T ONCE A N D FOR ALL TIME, DESTROY
THESE PRIMAL CAUSES OF M A N ’S SUFFERING
AN D WOES? W H A T IS THERE TO HINDER US
FROM DOING SO? SURELY THE W ORLD HAS
ENOUGH MACHINERY, EXECUTIVES, TRAINED
WORKERS, AN D RESOURCES — AS WELL AS
DESIRE— FOR THE ACCOMPLISHMENT OF SUCH
A RESULT!
Throughout the centuries there has never been a
time when the practical application— on a world-wide scale
— of the principle of human relationship to which we
refer as “ The Golden Rule,” would not have amply met
the needs of every one on our globe, if coupled with it we
had shackled and controlled the insane selfishness and mad
ambitions of a small percentage of mankind.
Now let us see what happens to the few who win in
the struggle of “ the survival of the fittest,” or who are
born with a thousand times as much money and as many
opportunities, or a thousand times more of the abundance
of this world’s goods than the average man possesses.
In most instances, we find that there is planted in their
minds an almost unavoidable feeling of their “ superiority”
over their fellow beings, and soon they develop an “ ever­
growing” desire to prove this superiority— not over their
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 169
own “inferior qualities” of character or “ aninialic natures,”
but over their brother man. If this feeling of superiority
continues for long, there quickly develops an insane desire
for personal power,— not that they might thereby glorify
their Creator or make the lives of their fellows happier,
—but to use for satisfying a ceaseless desire to glorify
themselves, or to prove how much more they know or
how much more powerful and important they are than
others. Gradually such an insistence that mankind re­
cognize their power and superiority takes possession of
their mentalities, that even the murder of millions upon
millions of their fellow beings seems justified to their de­
praved intellects. M ORAL IDIOCY SOON PLACES
“ A BLIND OBSESSION” FOR POW ER IN FULL
CONTROL OF THEIR ACTIONS. They will then
unhesitatingly plot and execute a war among the inhabi­
tants of the entire earth, if it becomes necessary to do so,
in order to gain more wealth or to further convince them­
selves of their power and influence. To maintain their
prestige, they will even sacrifice their own sons to the “god
of War,” when the lust for power and public recognition
has obsessed and warped their mentalities sufficiently.
THE H UM AN RACE W ILL NEVER BE FREED
FROM W ARS A N D WILL NEVER FIND PEACE
UNTIL IT RECOGNIZES THE FACT T H A T IT IS
AS VITAL TO “ PREVENT” TO O MUCH POWER
FROM REACHING THE HANDS OF THOSE W H O
H AVE N O T “FULLY PROVEN THEIR LOVE FOR
H U M AN ITY” — A N D THEIR “ ABSOLUTE SELF­
LESSNESS OF CHARACTER”— AS IT IS TO PRE-
170 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
VENT THE DANGERS OF POVERTY, JEALOUSY,
OR FEAR FROM GENERATING “EN VY” AN D
“H ATE” IN THE HEARTS OF MEN. THE LATTER
IS A KILLER IN A SMALL W A Y , BUT “ INSANE
GREED” A N D THE CRAVIN G FOR POW ER OR
W EALTH CONDUCTS ITS KILLINGS BY THE MIL­
LIONS, AN D HAS CONSTITUTED THROUGHOUT
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF YEARS, A FORCE
W H ICH HAS INVARIABLY DESTROYED EACH
A N D EVERY CIVILIZATION T H A T THE IN­
DUSTRIOUS A N D RIGHT-THINKING MEN AND
W OM EN OF THE HUM AN RACE H AVE EVER
CONSTRUCTED.
Mortal man is not God, nor should he be glorified
or worshiped as such. Let his joy and his reward come
from bringing greater happiness and security into the lives
of his brothers— not from the accumulation of power,
excessive wealth, or flattery. Instead, let him be so filled
with the desire to make this world ever more joyous and
beautiful, that he has no room left within his mentality
for a desire to seek praise or to be thanked. Let him
forever be turning the thoughts of mankind to gratitude
and thanksgiving to the Creator of this vast limitlessly
beautiful universe, and to an acquaintanceship with the
“All-wise” and “ All-loving” Father and Mother of us all.
Let no man desire to draw the attention of others to him­
self more than to another, for we all have the same “Divine
Parent” and this universe— “ Our Home”— belongs as
much to one as to another. Is it not time then, that the
inhabitants of our world unite into one family, with no
favorites?
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 171
LET THE STRONG GLADLY SHARE THE
FRUITAGE OF THEIR GREATER TALENTS OR
ABILITIES W ITH THOSE LESS FORTUNATE, AN D
IT WILL N O T BE LONG BEFORE A CONDITION
OF ABUNDANCE, BROTHERLY LOVE, A N D AN
“EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY” FOR S E L F -
IMPROVEMENT A N D M UTUAL RESPECT, A P­
PRECIATION A N D CONFIDENCE, WILL UNIVERS­
ALLY EXIST AM O N G MEN.
LET NONE BE TO O W EAK N O R NONE TO O
STRONG IN HIS OR HER O W N EYES, A N D FOR
THE PRESENT,— UNTIL W E CAN BE TRULY
PROUD OF THE “JUSTICE” A N D “ EQUALITY” OF
THE ECONOMIC SYSTEM UNDER W H ICH WE
LIVE,— LET ALL H ONOR OR PRAISE GO TO THE
“ALL-WISE” CREATOR OF THE UNIVERSE FROM
W H O M ALL LIFE HAS COME;— HE W H O IS
FATHER A N D MOTHER OF US ALL,— A N D FROM
WHENCE COMES ALL OF M A N ’S STRENGTH,
ALL OF M A N ’S CONSTRUCTIVE IDEAS, A N D ALL
OF HIS W O R TH Y ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
172 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 173
CHAPTER XII.
LIMITLESS FIELDS OF INTEREST
A “ UNIVERSE” TO EXPLORE
\
There is not the slightest question in the thoughts of
any intelligent man or woman, but that “ all people” want
to see and enjoy as many of the gloriously beautiful and
awe-inspiring places of interest on this earth, as their
capacity for appreciation can hold. W e should start en­
joying the world, and its limitless variety of blessings
“now,” and before our interest in life starts running down,
and the world says we have grown old. Old age is more
a condition of one’s mentality— “ a loss of interest in life;”
— a condition of boredom resulting from the endlessly
monotonous repetition of common-place duties and com­
mon-place interests,— much more the outgrowth of such
experiences than the direct result of the wearing out of
our bodies. Bodily decrepitude and lack of vitality and
life would not occur in the experience of the average in­
dividual for many years later than they now seem to,
were men and women each day making discoveries of new
interests, instead of being forced to spend literally “ all”
of their waking hours in a daily round of monotonous
“ soul-destroying routine duties.” The International In­
stitute of Universal Research and Administration seeks
174 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
the privilege of “ uniting” mankind for the purpose of
providing such interests.
AFTER ALL, W H A T A “ CRUEL FARCE” IT IS
T H A T A N Y ONE SHOULD EVER G RO W BORED
W IT H LIFE IN A W ORLD W H ICH CONTAINS
SUCH A VARIETY OF INEXHAUSTIBLE IN­
TERESTS AS OUR EARTH. No individual could ever
travel to each point of beauty and grandeur which it
provides, even if every day of his life were devoted to
doing nothing but traveling in search of beauty;— nor
could he really learn to know and understand and appre­
ciate all of our earth’s varieties of beauty, even if he were
able to spend hundreds of years doing nothing else. This
same statement might apply to the study of the world’s
beautiful paintings, its poetry and literature— the study of
nature— of animals, and the incalculable variety of ex­
pressions of life, from the “ infinitesimal” to “ The Infinite.”
Growing acquainted with the habits, actions and interests
of the numerous forms of life which occupy this world
with us, and with which we can readily become friends,
companions and protectors— could never grow monoton­
ous even if we were to spend thousands of years doing
that alone.
Those who are inclined towards exploration in the
fields of science, are aware of the fact that they have not
penetrated even the “ outer shell” of Mind’s limitless poten­
tialities in that direction. Those who prefer to raise their
thoughts above the shaping and forming of objectified
expressions, such as machinery and the use of the world’s
various elements and materials, and seek instead to look
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 175
out into limitless space, in the study of the planets and the
numerous fascinating discoveries of astronomy, have be­
fore them a field of adventure which they could not ex­
haust during many thousands of years of ceaseless investi­
gation. Those who prefer to take the microscope instead
of the telescope in their explorations into the “ limitless
expressions” of Mind,— (which our Creator has formed
in such variety and profusion, beyond the discernment of
not only the naked eye, but of even the most highly
developed microscopes of today),— have not even started
on their journey of discovery in the field of the “ infinitesi­
mal expressions” of our Creator's omniscience, and surely
they need never fear of wearing out their field of interest.
No, there is not the slightest possibility of a man
growing bored with life because of its monotonous same­
ness, except to the extent that he, himself, closes his eyes
and like a little Potato Bug,*— becoming satisfied with his
own little patch of potatoes,— gradually grows to think
that since there is nothing in life but potatoes, and he
knows all about them, there is nothing worth living for.
Nor should men's mentalities become like another type
of Potato Bug which makes no effort towards further ex­
ploration of the world and its interests, because of the
fact that he quite accidentally crawled out from behind
his great big potato one day, and seeing just above his
head the bushy leaves of the upper part of his potato
plant,— (which no other potato bug had ever before dis­
covered),— grew quite certain— because of the vast area
*For purposes of illustration only, we have assumed that “Potatoes”
and "Potato Plants" constitute a Potato Bug’s sole environment and
primary interest in life.
176 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
of the potato plant—that there was nothing left to discover,
and also quite sure in his own mind that he should be
forever honored by all other Potato Bugs for having finally
reached the most distant outpost of the universe. Carrying
our illustration a bit further, we find that because of the
fact that this little Potato Bug's discovery was greater
than that of any other Potato Bug before his time, all
of the other little bugs in the “ Potato-bug” world, settled
back to live a life of common-place monotony, because
they were quite sure there could be nothing left to dis­
cover, and no honors for them; quite sure that there was
nothing new under the sun. “Ah yes! Life is just one
potato after another;”— and so during that generation of
potato bugs, there was no further effort expended in the
fields of research or exploration.
However, when the excitement over the “startling”
and “ colossal” nature of the “vast discovery” represented
by the finding of the potato plant had gradually worn away,
a little Potato Bug, less satisfied with life than his brothers,
decided— after viewing the leaves of the potato plant im­
mediately in front of his gaze— that he would undertake
further explorations; so, instead of returning by the path­
way leading down among the potatoes, he crawled out
three or four inches beyond the shadow of the vast and
terrifying potato plant, and looking up, he chanced to see
a cornstalk towering into the sky far beyond the limits
of his naked eye. So huge and tall was this cornstalk
which he gazed upon, that for a minute he actually felt
a sense of humility, for he began to realize that only a
wisdom “ much greater” than his own could possibly have
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 177
brought to pass such an awe-inspiring spectacle, or any
creation of such “ colossal dimensions,” as that of the
cornstalk.
And so we find that these little bugs started to honor
and glorify not just the accomplishments of their “Super
Potato Bugs,” but also the creation of a power and intel­
ligence which,— after much humbling of their egos,— they
finally acknowledged to be superior and greater than any
Potato Bug could ever hope to become. Thereafter, they
no longer wasted all of their lives paying homage to other
Potato Bugs, but instead they began an orderly and system­
atic investigation of the handiwork of a Creator whom they
knew must possess power and wisdom far surpassing their
own. It was not long before they had traveled beyond the
cornstalk and discovered a great big stack of hay. One day
while they were contemplating the findings of many genera­
tions of their most courageous “ Brother Bugs” who had
finally completed measuring the length of one side of this
vast new spectacle, they looked around its edge and, lo and
behold, they brought within the range of their highly
developed telescopes (?) the full stature of a man. Farmer
Jones, himself, had become known to his Potato Bugs!
Beholding something almost as vast as their colossal
cornstalk, and yet something able to walk and move around
from one place to another, just as they themselves could
do, they finally concluded,— after going back to their
Potato-Bug Capitol and spending many long Potato-Bug
years in discussion and debate,— that they had seen “ the
Creator of all the world,” and that they had beheld the
being whom henceforth they would worship as their God.
178 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
T H A T ENDED THE PO TA TO BUGS’ FURTHER
EFFORTS A T DISCOVERY, FOR THEY FELT QUITE
CERTAIN T H A T THERE W A S NOTH ING LEFT
FOR THEM TO FIND. THEY H AD NEVER
DEVELOPED TELESCOPES CAPABLE OF SEEING
EVEN TO THE TOP OF A TREE, NOR T O THE
LITTLE HOUSE IN W HICH FARMER JONES LIVED.
HOW EVER, “ THEY WERE SATISFIED,” A N D
TH A T IS THE REASON T H A T THEIR MENTALI­
TIES ARE STILL JUST THOSE OF “LITTLE PO TATO
BUGS.”
Mankind might well guard against the mental qualities
of “smug self-satisfaction;” for unless we are no farther
advanced than “ Potato Bugs,” we must surely realize that
we have not yet even started to discover the smallest part
of the creations of limitless wisdom, nor to recognize even
an infinitesimal part of the power and might of life, nor
of that source from which the universe and all that is there*
in, “ truly emanates." Just as the little Potato Bugs had
not yet discovered Farmer Jones’ home, nor even the
boundary or fence line which encircled the field containing
their Potato-Bug kingdom,— neither has man, up to this
stage in history, explored even his own immediate sur­
roundings, nor the smallest part of the field— (our earth)
— in which he lives.
Just as beyond Farmer Jones’ field there exists the
rest of his farm, and beyond that his neighbor’s farm, and
then the boundaries of the County and the State, and
finally the Nation itself— a part of Farmer Jones’ continent
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 179
in turn bounded by oceans— and beyond them other con-
tinents, and so on; . . . likewise there exists beyond the
boundaries of our earth, fields of “ infinite” exploration,
limitless elements, resources and awe-inspiring soul-expand­
ing scenes, which man will never learn to enjoy nor, in
fact, even see unless he grows— not just merely “ discon­
tented”— but “ wholly unsatisfied” with his present attain­
ments, and determines to look far beyond himself and his
own handiwork, to those expressions of wisdom and power,
might and eternality, which make the works of men seem
but foolishness in the sight of God.
Well might men cultivate qualities of humility— cease
their futile and puny struggles among and against them­
selves— and combine what little wisdom they at this time
have learned to express, and what few energies and powers
they have learned to harness, and in the spirit of brother­
ly love,— in limitless expectation of incalculable benefits
and joys awaiting their efforts, — become “ Mankind
United.”
“ One for All and All for One,”— Mankind United
could enter upon an adventure truly worthy of intelligent
creatures;— the building of a world free from petty and
puny human differences;— free from wars, free from racial,
class or religious antagonisms, and the wholly needless
poverty which forces men into lives of drab, ugly
monotony. “Mankind United” will bring immediate re­
wards of financial independence to all people, and an end
to all wars; an end to those experiences -which cause men
to feel that there is nothing of interest in life. “ Mankind
United”— can put an end to that attitude of life which
180 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
suggests that, after all, life is just “ one potato after
another,” with nothing to look forward to and no hope
of change.
LET THE PO TA TO BUG STA Y IN HIS PATCH
OF POTATOES IF HE SO DESIRES, BUT LET MEN
TRAVEL A T LEAST T O THE BOUNDARY LINE
AROUN D THE FIELD W H ICH THEY CALL THEIR
EARTH, A N D LEARN JUST A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
ITS RICH F U R N I S H I N G S A N D PRICELESS
TREASURES.
How can men and women of wealth, or even those
in very moderate circumstances,— but with enough to eat
and to wear and a home in which to live,— shut their eyes
to mankind’s suffering, and yet obtain any sense of joy or
happiness? How can we even “ hope” to find contentment
and peace within our thoughts, when in the very midst
of God’s indescribably glorious universe— all around us
here on this earth which we call our home— we find the
ugliness of greed and the selfishly-cruel handiwork of men
expressed as oppression, and an endless personification of
“ Man’s Inhumanity to Man,” with its dirt and filth, its
poverty, jealousy, envy, hate, murder and war? The
evidences of cruelty— instead of brotherly love— ceaselessly
force themselves upon our thoughts whenever love,
awakening in our hearts, opens the blindness of our eyes
and the deafness of our ears, so that we may see and hear
the soul-searing struggles and agonizing cries of men and
women beseeching us to help them untangle the hopeless
poverty-stricken uselessness of their lives. Multitudes of
our fellow beings beseeching some one to show them,—
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 181
(mind you, right here in the very midst of God’s inex-
haustible provision of mankind’s needs),— just “ one thing”
worth living for.
THE REMAINDER OF THE EARTH ’S INHABIT­
ANTS ARE IN A CONDITION ALM OST AS PITI­
ABLE, -— “ W A ITIN G FOR SHIPS T O COME IN ”
W HICH SELDOM IF EVER ARRIVE. A LW A YS DO
MEN THINK T H A T THEY WILL START LIVING
“TO M O R R O W ” OR T H A T SOON— “ W HEN CON ­
DITIONS CHANGE FOR THE BETTER”— ALL WILL
BE WELL, A N D “ THEN THEY CAN START
LIVING.” A LW A YS IT IS TO M O RRO W , NEXT
WEEK, OR NEXT YEAR;-------“ CENTURIES H AVE
PASSED A N D STILL M ANKIND W A IT UNTIL
SOME ‘FUTURE TIME,’ T O STA R T LIVING.”
Until we close our eyes and shut our ears to the suffer-
ing and cries of anguish on all sides,— and become nothing
more than animals selfishly concerned only with our own
welfare,— there can never be even any imaginary joy in our
hearts. Until we destroy, not merely the “ effects” of disap­
pointment, fear or hopelessness in the lives of men, but the
age-old antiquated and outgrown “ causes” of these condi­
tions;— until every man, woman and child on the face of
this earth has enough to eat, enough clothes to wear, a
place called home, and the time and opportunity with
which to seek and to learn the truths about this glorious
adventure called “ life;”— until we have the leisure time
and the opportunity in which to learn to love this beautiful
old world of ours, and to find a variety of interests with
which to break the “ mesmeric” spell of the monotonous
182 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
routine of common-place detail duties, there can never be
lasting peace, security or joy in the life of any man or
woman.
Not even a “ brief glimpse” of happiness and real peace
— way down deep within our hearts— is ever even momen­
tarily possible, until we first shut our eyes and our ears
to the appeals of the hundreds of millions of confused
hopeless human beings who are ceaselessly crying out for
some one to help them. And yet, such people have just
as much right to find peace and happiness here on this
earth— and just as much right to draw upon our Creator’s
limitless resources— as the most “ saintly” or the most
“ successful” man or woman who ever walked upon this
or any other planet throughout the universe.
IN THIS W O RLD OF YOURS A N D OURS,
THERE ARE OVER ONE TH OU SAND MILLION
(1,000,000,000) MEN A N D W OM EN UNABLE TO
READ OR W RITE A N D CONSTANTLY FILLED
W ITH NAMELESS SUPERSTITIOUS FEARS; AND
FIVE HUNDRED MILLION (500,000,000) HUM AN
BEINGS A LW A YS HUNGRY, HOMELESS, A N D UN­
W AN TED!! ARE SUCH CONDITIONS ACTUALLY
NECESSARY? MUST W E G O TH ROU GH LIFE
EITHER AS ONE OF A COUNTLESS MULTITUDE
OF SUCH HOPELESS CREATURES, OR ONE OF
THOSE W H O MUST FOREVER LISTEN TO THEIR
CRIES FOR HELP? IS THERE A SOLUTION TO
THESE PROBLEMS? IF THERE BE A N Y MEANS BY
W H ICH TO SILENCE THEIR CRIES, IT MUST BE
IN A DIRECTION OTHER T H A N THE ONES IN
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 183
W HICH W E H AVE SEARCHED TH ROU GHO UT
THE PAST CENTURIES!! IF A N ECONOMIC
SYSTEM CAN BE BUILT W HICH WILL BE CAP­
ABLE OF GUARANTEEING FINANCIAL SECURITY
A N D OPPORTUNITIES FOR HAPPINESS FOR
“ALL” PEOPLE, IT MUST BE ONE “ VASTLY DIF­
FERENT” TH AN A N Y THE H U M AN RACE HERE­
TOFORE HAS ATTEMPTED TO EVOLVE. THE
AU TO CRATIC CAPITALISTIC RULE OF “THE
SU RVIVAL OF THE FITTEST;” THE COMMUNIS­
TIC SYSTEMS OF “ MASS REGIM ENTATION;” THE
SYSTEM W HICH MAKES MEN TEAR A T EACH
OTHER’S TH RO ATS LIKE PACKS OF W OLVES—
W HICH W E CALL “OUR PRIVATE PROFIT” OR
“COMPETITIVE SYSTEM”— H AVE ALL FAILED.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 1 85
CHAPTER XIII.
DOES OUR W O RLD BELONG
A N Y MORE TO ONE TH AN T O ANOTHER
?
•
A L L PLANS O F “ECONOMIC SECURITY”
W HICH H AVE EVER BEEN ADOPTED BY THE
H UM AN RACE— (W HETHER PROPOSED AS A
POLICY OF GOVERNMENT O R UNDER THE
SPONSORSHIP OF THE VARIOUS RELIGIOUS
ORDERS OF THE D A Y )— H AVE BEEN TRIED AN D
TESTED, YET THEY H AVE “ ALL” FAILED.
EVERY K N O W N METHOD OF PRODUCING
A N D DISTRIBUTING THE NECESSITIES A N D
LUXURIES OF LIFE A N D OF PROVIDING PEACE
AN D SECURITY FOR THE H UM AN RACE HAS
BEEN TRIED “EXCEPT ONE;” BUT THIS “ ONE”
N O T EVEN THE W O R LD ’S M O ST TRUSTED
LEADERS H AVE “ DARED” T O RECOMMEND,—
FOR “SPIRITUAL WICKEDNESS IN HIGH PLACES”
HAS PRODUCED A RACE OF “ M ORAL CO W A RD S.”
Fear of ridicule or criticism occupies such an import­
ant place in human thought that no one with influence
and power in public life, and to whose voice all the world
would listen, has dared to suggest the “ One” and “ Only”
plan of human relationship which— if applied to the
186 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
production and distribution of the needs of human life—
could successfully solve the all-important problem of bring­
ing to pass the “ Peace on Earth” and “ Good Will Among
Men” for which mankind have ceaselessly prayed through­
out countless ages.
This “ One” solution has never been tried because of
the fact that those who know enough to make such a re­
commendation,— and who have sufficient power and in­
fluence to enforce it,— would be obliged to sacrifice their
precious egotistical belief in their own “ superiority” and
the conviction that, because of their exalted positions, they
deserve a “ greater share” of the world's goods than their
fellows. This “ One” solution might be described in just
“ two” words— if men were unselfish enough to recognize
and acknowledge their true import and intended meaning.
Yes; if the plan for ending poverty and war were founded
upon the “Spirit” as well as the “Letter” of Christ Jesus’
“ Golden Rule,” and if men were not too egotistical to
accept a system established upon “Absolute Economic
Equality,”— the concept of “ One for All and All for One,”
— then there would be no difficulty in completely describ­
ing the solution of these age-old world problems with just
two words:-------“M ANKIND UNITED.”
Whether men are black or yellow, white or red, tall
or short, stout or thin, they are nevertheless the children
of “identically” the same Creator as ourselves and, whether
we like it or not, they are still our brothers and sisters,
with “ identically” the same rights of occupancy of this
world home and the use of all it contains as the greatest
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 187
genius or the most sublime egotist— either man or woman—
who has ever trod this globe.
OF THOSE W H O H AVE OCCUPIED EITHER
THE “ MOST LO W LY” OR THE “ MOST SOUGHT
AFTER” STATIONS IN HUM AN LIFE, NONE HAVE
EVER BROUGHT EVEN ONE LOAF OF BREAD
W ITH THEM W HEN THEY ARRIVED HERE, NOR
HAVE YET SUCCEEDED IN REMOVING OR
TAKING EVEN ONE LOAF OF BREAD W ITH THEM
W HEN THEY LEFT. EACH NORM AL M AN OR
W O M A N ARRIVES W ITH THE SAME NUMBER OF
H ANDS AN D FEET, BUT THEY COME W IT H
THEIR HANDS EMPTY A N D NO SHOES ON THEIR
FEET, A N D THEY LEAVE THE SAME W A Y . THEY
BRING NO PROOFS OF THEIR SUPERIORITY
W ITH THEM W HEN THEY COME A N D THEY
TAKE NONE W ITH THEM W HEN THEY GO.
DURING THEIR LIFETIME HERE, THE SUN GIVES
N O EVIDENCE OF DESIRING T O SHINE ON ONE
MORE TH AN ON ANOTHER, N O R THE EARTH
T O FEED OR PROVIDE— OUT OF ITS LIMITLESS
TREASURE HOUSE OF GIFTS FOR MANKIND—
A N Y GREATER GIFTS o
TO ONE TH A N TO
ANOTHER.
“Man Only” has assumed the responsibility of dassi-
fying one human being as more important than another
and has determined what the rewards of such a classifica­
tion shall be. The only way in which such a system could
possess any elements of justice, would be for every man,
woman and child on our earth to have an equal voice in
188 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
determining what the various scales of compensation or
reward should be,— both for those who are accepted by
their fellows as being superior, and also the rewards of
those who are supposed to have inferior capabilities.
However, the odd part of our economic system,—
which permits a greater accumulation of this world's goods
for one than for another,— is that the deciding voices in
such matters, and the voices which determine just who
should be considered as superior, and who shall receive
the greatest rewards, have always been the voices, not of
those who have rendered the greatest service to the human
race;— nor those who have lived the most exemplary lives;
— nor composed the world’s most beautiful music, poems
and literature;— nor painted its grandest pictures;— nor
developed its most useful inventions, but instead, those
who have “ actually” had the deciding voice in the distri­
bution of life’s luxuries— and even its barest requirements
— have— “ W ITH O U T EVEN ONE EXCEPTION IN
H UM AN HISTORY”— been those who have rendered
the “ least” service to mankind, and left the “ fewest”
evidences of having brought happiness into the lives of
our earth’s inhabitants.
IN FACT, THOSE W H O H AVE USUALLY
FORMULATED AND ENFORCED THE HUM ANLY
DEVISED LAW S UNDER W H ICH MEN LIVE,—
AN D W H ICH DETERMINE THE AM O U N T OF
THIS W O RLD ’S GOODS THEY M A Y POSSESS,—
H AVE ALM OST INVARIABLY BEEN THOSE W H O
H A V E BROUGHT ABOUT THE WHOLESALE
SLAUGHTER OF THE GREATEST NUMBER OF
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 189
THEIR FELLOW BEINGS, AN D PRODUCED THE
GREATEST A M O U N T OF HUM AN SUFFERING IN
THE FORM OF BROKEN HEARTS AN D STARVED
BODIES.
The “Napoleons” throughout human history have
been the ones that have decided who shall be called
superior, and whether life shall be “ A Feast” or “A
Famine;”— the rest of the human family occupying this
earthly home have stood silently by, either too filled with
“awe” and “ admiration” over the virile qualities of leader­
ship and personality exemplified by these “ Napoleons,”
or too greatly filled with “ fear” and the misery of under­
fed emaciated starved aching bodies, to demand justice; IN
FACT, THEY H AVE USUALLY N O T H A D ENOUGH
MENTAL OR PHYSICAL VITALITY W ITH W HICH
TO EVEN “RAISE THEIR VOICES” IN PROTEST.
Other than those who have become mankind’s “ self-
appointed” rulers— and the “Money Changers” for the
race— there are none who would not willingly consent to
a sufficiently abundant production and distribution of the
world’s goods to insure an ample variety and quantity of
the needful or desirable requirements of life for the people
of every land. With the exception of mankind’s “ self-
appointed” rulers, there are but few who would not joy­
ously welcome a system of human relationship which would
value and estimate qualities of “ superiority,” solely from
the standpoint of the greater service to the human race
that one might render over another; or who would not
willingly agree that such people should receive as a reward,
not a greater amount of the world’s goods— (which are,
190 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
after all, lent to each of us equally by our Creator and
belong no more to one than to another, neither are they
actually ours to give or to take away from each other)—
but instead, that they should be appointed as instructors,
guides and directors,— in order that they might thereby
help others to learn how to constructively seek individual
happiness, and yet— at the same time— succeed in serving
their brother man more effectually.
Any other method of appointing leaders or of reward-
ing exemplary service, brings about one of two results;
namely, either through “ bribery” or “ favoritism” incompe­
tent men or women frequently gain positions of authority
over their fellows and— “ the blind leading the blind”—
chaos results; or if rewards are in the form of a greater
amount of this world’s goods than others are enabled to
possess,— then jealousy and envy breed bitterness and hate,
and bitterness and hate breed murder and war;— NOR
CAN THESE EFFECTS “ EVER” BE AVOIDED SO
LONG AS A N ECONOMIC SYSTEM W H ICH PER­
MITS SUCH INEQUALITIES TO EXIST CON­
TINUES T O GOVERN THE LIVES OF MEN.
“ M ANKIND UNITED” — “ ONE FOR ALL AN D
ALL FOR ONE”— “ DOING U N TO OTHERS AS WE
W OULD H AVE OTHERS D O U N TO US,” CONSTI­
TUTES THE “ ONE” A N D “ ONLY” SOLUTION OF
THE DUAL CURSES— “ POVERTY A N D W A R ,”
FROM W H ICH H U M AN BEINGS H AVE END­
LESSLY SUFFERED.
Whether or not we think we are “ too good” to soil
our hands, or to degrade our precious concept of our own
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 191
“ superiority” through association with others whom we
believe to be less capable than ourselves, or of a different
color of skin, or members of different fraternal or religious
associations— as the case may be,— the fact still remains
that this world home of ours was provided “ equally” for
the people of every nation, and for those of every color,
and the sun was meant to shine as much upon one as upon
another.
W E ARE INDISPUTABLY “ OUR BROTHER’S
KEEPER” IN THE SENSE OF GRANTING HIM
EQUAL RIGHTS T O “LIFE, LIBERTY AN D THE
PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS,” AN D OF PREVENTING
SUCH RIGHTS FROM EVER BEING WITHHELD
FROM A N Y H UM AN BEING ON THIS EARTH.
W e have no more right to shut our eyes to the in­
excusable suffering caused by greed, selfishness, egotism,
and the insanely depraved scramble of a world-wide “ pack
of wolves” for power, dominion, flattery and wealth, than
we would have to sit down and enjoy a delicious meal
knowing that our mother, brother or sister were in the
next room slowly wasting away from under-nourishment,
and gradually starving to death.
Destroying cattle, wheat and other foodstuffs, in a
world with five hundred million (500,000,000) people
daily suffering from insufficient food and thirty million
(30,000,000) human beings “ starving to death” each year,
is a far greater form of human selfishness and cruelty than
any individual could possibly express through the neglect
of his immediate family, relatives or friends, yet that is
“ exactly” what we are permitting our “so-called” leaders
192 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
to do year after year,— and during an age which we
proudly acclaim to be “ civilized.”
Men will find but little opportunity to develop feelings
of security or happiness— (other than those of dumb
brutes or self-centered ferocious beasts)— until they feel
“ at least secure,” and in time grow conscious of a sense
of “justifiable” self-respect, through feeling that they are
not only living “ abundantly,”— but also permitting others
to do likewise.
M ANKIND WILL NEVER FIND HAPPINESS
UNTIL THERE IS A N INTELLIGENTLY EXPRESSED
SEMBLANCE OF “ EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY
AN D FREEDOM,” A N D A LIMITLESS W O RLD ­
WIDE ABUNDANCE— “FOR EVERYONE”— OF THE
NECESSARY OR DESIRABLE REQUIREMENTS OF
H UM AN LIFE,— TOGETHER W IT H THE LEISURE
TIME FOR THEIR ENJOYMENT.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 193
CHAPTER XIV.
EARNINGS— HOURS— EDUCATION
GENEROUS BENEFITS A N D AMPLE VACATION S
A “ guarantee” of financial independence and security
for all can be assured by The Research Department of
The International Institute of Universal Research and
Administration within a period of but a few months after
the formation of The Universal Service Corporation, and
the fulfillment of this guarantee can start taking place with-
in ninety (90) days from the date of its general world'
wide acceptance. Thereafter, no man or woman on the
face of this earth need suffer from a lack of this world's
resources, nor be required to work over four (4) hours
per day, four (4) days per week, or eight (8) months
each year, in order to earn a living.
Upon the acceptance of our Research Department’s
program, all adults will be guaranteed not less than three
(3) days a week and four (4) entire months each year
of vacation time with pay. All men and women will re­
ceive a minimum yearly salary of not less than three
thousand ($3,000.00) dollars, which will gradually be in­
creased to over ten times this amount as mankind’s dis­
coveries and capabilities are fully co-ordinated with effi­
cient methods of production and distribution.
194 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
Within a matter of months after the public’s accep-
tance of the Corporation Charter of The Universal Service
Corporation— (which will constitute the business vehicle
of “ Mankind United” )— we will live in a world where no
one will ever again be hungry, cold or homeless; a world
in which one hundred million (100,000,000) men and
women will spend their full working time planting and
caring for gardens, parks and playgrounds, and preparing
features of beauty for the enjoyment and happiness of
all; a world where none need work more than twenty (20)
years of their lives at the rate of four (4) hours per day,
foui (4) days per week, eight (8) months a year,— or
if they prefer to work longer hours “ each day,”— they will
be required to work only ten (10) years during their life­
time, at the rate of eight (8) hours per day, four (4) days
per week, eight (8) months each year. Thereafter, they
will be free to travel in any part of the world they may
desire to explore, or to develop their talents or further
whatever other constructive ambitions they may possess,
during the remainder of their lifetime here on our earth.
W ITH IN TEN (10) YEARS M ANKIND CAN
LIVE IN A W ORLD IN W HICH PEOPLE WILL BE
EDUCATED A N D TRAINED FOR THE PRIMARY
OBJECT OF DEVELOPING THEIR LATENT TAL­
ENTS AN D CAPABILITIES, A N D OF OBTAINING
THE GREATEST POSSIBLE ENJOYMENT AND
HAPPINESS FROM LIFE OF W H ICH THEY ARE
CAPABLE, “INDIVIDUAL” AS WELL AS “ COLLEC­
TIVE” WELL-BEING A N D HAPPINESS, A N D THE
DEVELOPMENT OF N ATU RAL TALENTS, WILL
M A N K I N D U N I T E D I9 T
BE CONSIDERED AS THE PRIMAL OBJECT IN
LIFE. “JOY”— N O T “STRIFE”— W ILL BE RECOG­
NIZED AS THE N ATU RAL EXPRESSION OF M AN.
W E W ILL LIVE IN A W O RLD WHEREIN M AN
W ILL W O RK PRIMARILY FOR THE PURPOSE OF
ADDIN G T O HIS O W N HAPPINESS AN D THE
HAPPINESS OF HIS FELLOWMEN. HE W ILL N O
LONGER BE FORCED T O LIVE FOR THE “SOLE
PURPOSE OF W ORKIN G FOR BREAD TO GET THE
STRENGTH T O W O RK FOR MORE BREAD,” U N ­
TIL HE FINALLY TIRES OF T H E ENDLESS
STRUGGLE A N D DIES.
“ M AN DOES N O T LIVE BY BREAD ALONE,”
N OR CAN HE EVER FIND HAPPINESS OR SATIS­
FACTION IN A LIFE W H ICH FORCES HIM TO
CONSIDER ITS PREPARATION AS THE M OST
IM PORTAN T OBJECTIVE OF HIS EXISTENCE.
Again we remind our readers that “ right here on our
earth” there is over one hundred (100) times as much
land— capable of producing food— as mankind now culti­
vates. But in spite of this fact, over “ five hundred million”
(500,000,000) people are permitted to remain constantly
hungry and over “ thirty million” (30,000,000) of them to
die of starvation annually. “ Hunger and starvation” result
solely from “ Man’s Inhumanity to Man,”— the general
“blindness” of the mass of human beings and the wealthy
men’s frequently complete ignorance of either the “letter”
or the “ spirit” implied by The Golden Rule.
It has been complacently stated by economists— (who
have learned so much, but whose wealthy clients have
196 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
learned to do so little)— that enough food and enough
material for clothes could be produced, stored and pre­
served, within a ten (10) year period, to feed and clothe
the entire human family for the next “ one hundred (100)
years.”
Within the following ten (10) years, in order that
the human race may guard against droughts, floods or other
unforeseen calamities this will be done, upon mankind’s
acceptance of our Research Department’s charter. How­
ever, except for some wholly “unheard-of” form of calam­
ity, men need not ever be deprived of the seasonally
grown and freshly prepared foods each year.
N O FOOD WILL EVER A G A IN BE LEFT TO
R O T IN THE FIELDS OR ON THE TREES, NOR
BE TH R O W N IN TO THE OCEAN, AFTER “ M A N ­
KIND UNITED” H AVE FORMED THEIR “ UNI­
VERSAL SERVICE CORPORATION.”
THOSE OF US W H O HAVE H AD A N ABUN­
DANCE OF THE GOOD THINGS OF LIFE A N D YET
H AVE STOOD BY AN D W ATCH ED V A ST Q U A N ­
TITIES OF FOOD BEING DESTROYED WHILE
OUR FELLOW BEINGS— IN A HUNDRED DIFFER­
ENT PARTS OF THE EARTH— WERE STARVIN G
TO DEATH, NEED NEVER A G A IN HIDE OUR
HEADS IN SHAME OVER SUCH A TRAVESTY ON
BROTHERLY LOVE.
Mankind’s most experienced farmers, ranchers and
producers will have the satisfaction and worthy task of
“ directing” the production and preparation of vast quan­
tities of food and clothing materials, and of seeing to it
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 197
that every man, woman and child on this “ bountifully
fruitful earth” of ours has enough— and to spare— of
varied and delicious foods to eat, and warm— “ modern”
— attractive clothes to wear.
Over five hundred million (500,000,000) people will
be kept busy in these various activities, during their four-
hour work periods, producing and distributing the re­
quirements of life for all mankind. There will be no idle
architects or builders during the ten (10) year period
immediately following the formation of “ Mankind United”
and “ The Universal Service Corporation,” nor any idle
gardeners, inasmuch as all of the world's architects and
over one hundred million (100,000,000) gardeners will be
formed into a permanent department of The Service
Corporation. Over two hundred million (200,000,000)
architects, carpenters, building trade mechanics and furni­
ture makers will be kept busy twenty-four (24) hours per
day— in four (4) hour shifts— during the following ten
(10) years, in order that, by the end of said period, every
family on this earth will be enabled to live in a beautiful
home, placed in the midst of a lovely park; a home which
— if valued at today’s valuation— would cost twenty-five
thousand ($25,000.00) dollars or more, in buildings,
furnishings and surrounding grounds.*
As heretofore mentioned,— in addition to the major
languages which the citizens of the various nations may
desire to retain,— one universal language will also be
taught. Within much less than ten (10) years' time the
people of every land will be able to readily converse with
*Over 800,000,000 expert workers will be continuously employed.
198 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
one another, and the antagonisms resulting from the in-
ability of people to understand each other's habits and
customs will thereby be permanently uprooted.
W hen this one language has been universally learned,
most of the instruction in the various branches of human
knowledge will be taught by “ radio” and “ television,” and
will emanate from one great central department of educa-
tion. The brilliant scholars and most highly qualified
instructors of every nation will meet together and select
those most competent of their group to teach us all,—
not only the desirable academic subjects of the day,— but
also how to live more “ intelligently” and “ harmoniously”
with one another. Such instruction will be amplified
with free yearly travel— ( “during our entire lifetime” )—
to any part of the world we may either desire to visit, or
be required to investigate as a part of the course of study
we may individually be pursuing. “ FREE” FACILITIES
FOR TRAVEL WILL A D D MUCH T O OUR K N O W ­
LEDGE, UNDERSTANDING A N D APPRECIATION
OF THE HABITS, CUSTOMS A N D LIVES OF THE
PEOPLES OF THE VARIOUS NATIONS, A N D WILL
QUICKLY DISPEL THE JEALOUSIES, ENVIES AND
ANTAGONISM S W H ICH N O W EXIST.
“ FREE TRAVEL,” “ AMPLE LEISURE” A N D
“ADEQUATE INCOME” W ITH W H ICH T O OB­
TAIN FULL ENJOYMENT FROM LIFE, W ILL BE
AVAILABLE T O EVERYONE O N THIS GLOBE,
LONG BEFORE OUR TEN (10) YEAR PROGRAM
HAS BEEN COMPLETED.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 199
Every normal man and woman on earth will be ex­
pected to spend an average of not less than one hour each
work day studying some subject,— (according to each in­
dividual’s selection),— either by means of radio broad­
cast, television, or directly under the personal supervision
of qualified instructors. The nature of their instruction
will be the best that the world can provide, for all nations
will be searched for their most highly talented instructors
in order that they may be made available for those who
desire self-improvement.
The acid tests of “ proof and demonstration” will be
applied to whatever we sow in the minds of our children,
for only that which is constructive and good or true—
and thereby “ provable”— is worthy to be planted in the
fresh clean young intellects of children. Neither war nor
warriors,— nor any other kind of “ murder” or type of
“ murderers” — will be glorified, nor those so engaged set
up on pedestals for our children to copy as examples in the
formation of their qualities of character. “ CHRIST
JESUS” — N O T “NAPOLEON” — A CHARACTER
BUILDER, N O T A WHOLESALE MURDERER, WILL
BE THEIR EXEMPLAR. THEY W ILL BE TAU G H T
TO “ BUILD”— N O T T O “ DESTROY.”
Only by “ truly constructive thinking,” will the super­
stitions and groundless fears of mankind be ultimately
destroyed. It matters not how abundantly we supply man
with “ material possessions;”— such things are as but a
frame to a picture. If men are not taught what constitutes
true happiness— (and only truly intelligent thinking will
reveal “ true” joy to them)— all of our love-inspired efforts
200 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
to bring peace, joy and progress to the human race would
— within a generation or two— be swallowed up by “ greed,”
insanely futile “ mad ambition,” and a renewed struggle
for self-glorification, personal power and self-gain. Men
would once more be under the hypnotic spell of self-
centered ambitions;— once more they would be thinking
that vast wealth, or selfish personal power, constituted
the highway to happiness, and would again have forgotten
that we all come here on an “ equal” footing— “ with no
possessions” — and leave unable to take any of our accumu­
lation of material objects with us. Once more men might
forget that the world and those in it are not here for the
purpose of providing pleasures and luxuries to some small
handful of its population— or for the pleasure of some
one man; but instead, are here that they might— through
their concerted efforts— assure joy and happiness to “ all
mankind,” as well as to themselves.
UNLESS SUBJECTS OF “TRUE MERIT” ARE
TAU GH T, MEN W OULD SOON FORGET T H A T
IF THEY W O U LD FIND HAPPINESS THEMSELVES,
THEY MUST SHARE THIS W O RLD ’S BEAUTY
A N D BOUNTY EQUALLY W ITH ONE ANOTHER.
M A N ’S ONLY GUARANTEE OF PERMANENT
CONTENTMENT A N D JOYOUSNESS, R E S T S
SOLELY UPON HIS CAPACITY T O LEARN —
T H R O U G H THE HIGHER CONCEPTS O F
“ BROTHERLY LOVE” — W H A T “ TRUE HAPPI­
NESS” REALLY IS; FOR SURELY IT CONSISTS AS
MUCH IN “ GIVING” AS IT DOES IN “ GETTING.”
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 201
To assure mankind’s permanent progress, every man,
woman and child on this earth must be helped to recog­
nize the importance of regularly studying and searching
for wisdom, and of doing so a little “each day.” Once
man stops growing mentally, he starts growing sensually,
and when he starts becoming a slave to his physical
appetites and desires, he has lost all chance of finding
either “ peace” or “ happiness” until he first destroys such
taskmasters.
Yes; the educational side of The Universal Service
Corporation's program,— in its development and produc­
tion of those things which will bring stability and happi­
ness to the human race,— is indeed going to be by far the
most vital and important of its many activities, and it will
be but “ barely starting” during the following 10-year
period, on its endless journey of service.
The name which the Sponsors of this movement
selected in designating their organization as “The Inter­
national Institute of Universal Research and Administra­
tion,” is intended to convey the “ universal” and “endless”
nature of the program upon which you will be invited
to vote during the 30 days of its final presentation to the
public. During the 10-year period in which we have
promised that all of the material needs of man will be met
and-—-through the construction of adequate facilities—
permanently assured to coming generations, The Universal
Service Corporation’s program of education will have
only commenced.
Organizing and co-ordinating the efforts of the world’s
most practical, capable and brilliant research economists,
202 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
industrialists, agricultural experts, and engineers, is a
task which any one of hundreds of outstanding business
executives of this age could readily accomplish, once he
had received the order and authority to “go ahead” from
enough people who had definitely decided that they would
give up their “ questionable chances” of winning great
wealth, power or prestige, in exchange for the assurance
of “ guaranteed economic security” for all. Once two
hundred million (200,000,000) clear-thinking intelligently
industrious men and women have decided to make this
exchange and accept, instead, an abundance of everything
any “ sane” person could desire— and the leisure time in
which to live and enjoy life— then the task of bringing
this result to pass is a comparatively simple one, and one
which any number of competent executives of today could
readily accomplish.
TEN YEARS IS AMPLE TIME FOR FULFILLING
THE INSTITUTE’S PROMISES, AN D ELIMINATING
POVERTY, W A R , A N D EVERY OTHER ACCURSED
EFFECT OF “ M AD AM BITION” AN D “ ANIM AL
GREED” FROM THE FACE OF THIS GLORIOUSLY
BEAUTIFUL PLANET. BUT W HEN THIS TASK
HAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED, A N D THE MATERIAL
NEEDS OF MEN ARE PERMANENTLY ASSURED,
THEN M ANKIND WILL H AVE ONLY BARELY
STARTED UPON THE ADVENTURE OF LEARN­
ING W H A T “LIFE” A N D W H A T “HAPPINESS”
TRULY MEAN.
Those who believe that “Mankind United” can ob­
tain a greater degree of security for the individual mem-
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 203
bers of the human race than they could hope to win by
their own unaided efforts, are asked to accept the “ free
gift” of our Research Department’s 30'day World-Wide
Program; during which time they will learn how the
establishment of a great Universal Service Corporation
can be quickly brought to pass,— and without “bloodshed,”
“ revolution” or the use of “ brute force” of any kind.
The people who attend our program, will neither be asked
to buy stock nor to make any sacrifices other than to spend
a few hours of their time in order that they may thereby
obtain sufficient information to vote intelligently upon the
Corporation’s charter.
The undying gratitude of countless generations of
human beings w i l l follow the two hundred million
(200,000,000) men and women who consent to become
equal owners of “The Universal Service Corporation”—
(and who will thereby unite as members and supporters
of “A True Universal Brotherhood of Man” )— for the
movement which it will bring to pass; namely,— “ Man­
kind United”— will be preserved for all time to come, as
a monument to the “ 20th Century Birth of Man” in the
image and likeness of the divine qualities of intelligence
which are his birthright. The names of these two hun­
dred million (200,000,000) men and women,— and all
others who unite with them during this generation,— will
be preserved throughout countless thousands of years
deeply engraved upon tablets of bronze and placed in a
gigantic monument erected on the crest of one of the
world’s tallest peaks; a monument which will forever
point upward to greater and grander monuments to the
204 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
limitless potentialities of “Unity of Effort,” when wedded
to “Justice” and “Brotherly Love.”
In this eternal monument, there will be deposited and
sealed within solid blocks of ageless granite— from century
to century— each bit of demonstrable Truth or scientific
knowledge discovered, tested, and demonstrated by the
men and women of each successive generation, in order
that their footsteps of progress,— (dating from mankind’s
first acceptance and “ practical application” of Christ Jesus’
“ Sermon on the Mount" with its “ Golden Rules” of human
relationship),— may be traced by those of later genera-
tions, and may stand forth as an eternal proof to such
future generations of the practical value of “ Brotherly
Love”— “ Unity” and “ Unselfed Service”— as compared
to the “ Each-Wolf-For-Himself” Private Profit System of
our present generation.
As an indisputable proof of the advantages gained
when the inhabitants of the world unite as one family—
“ One for All and All for One,”— (and, although they
may be living in separate and differently furnished rooms
— or portions of the world — each individual receives the
benefit of the efforts of all the others, and in turn shares
the fruitage of his own talents with those who comprise
the human family),— this monument will evidence to all
future generations— and stand as a permanent reminder
to them— that only when mankind had combined their
talents and efforts for their “ mutual welfare,” had their
progress been “ uninterrupted and continuous”— unbroken
either by wars, or other similarly destructive forces, or
by any weakening of their unselfishly united energies.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 205
ALSO W ITH IN THIS ETERNAL MONUMENT,
WILL BE CONTAINED A HUGE MUSEUM FUR­
NISHED W ITH THE PROOFS A N D EVIDENCES
OF “M AD AMBITION,” SELFISHNESS, GREED,
JEALOUSY, HATE, REVOLUTIONS, W ARS, AN D
THE COUNTLESS OTHER EXPRESSIONS OF UGLI­
NESS W H ICH CONSTITUTE “ THE N ATURAL
FRUITAGE” OF “M A N ’S IN H U M AN ITY T O M A N ”
— (W IT H ITS RESULTANT JEALOUSIES, ENVIES
AN D UNCONTROLLABLE H ATRED S)— IN ORDER
TH A T THE PEOPLE OF ALL FUTURE GENERA­
TIONS M A Y THEREBY “ TAKE HEED,” AN D T H A T
THEY M A Y NEVER A G A IN BE TEMPTED BY
FEELINGS OF “INDIVIDUAL SUPERIORITY,” TO
SUBSCRIBE TO THOSE H UM ANLY CONCEIVED
AN D PERPETUATED RULES OF RELATIONSHIP
BASED UPON THE “JUNGLE L A W ” OF “ THE SUR­
VIVAL OF THE FITTEST,” W H ICH THE W ORLD
N O W CALLS “ RUGGED INDIVIDUALISM ” AN D
ITS “ PRIVATE PROFIT SYSTEM.”
206 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 207
CHAPTER XV.
THE UNIVERSAL SERVICE CORPORATION
EQUALLY OW NED— EQUALLY CONTROLLED
EQUALLY BENEFICIAL
During the 30'day program of revelations and recom­
mendations prepared by The International Institute of
Universal Research and Administration, each of the Re­
search Department’s discoveries and perfected inventions,
—-to which we have made reference in this bulletin,— will
not only be fully described, but will also be offered with­
out cost to those of the human race who associate with
The Universal Service Corporation and who will thereby
consent to their “ equal use,” and to the equal unprejudiced
distribution of the products and benefits of these numer­
ous discoveries and inventions. An equality which must
be subject only to the length of time it will take to teach
backward people how to read and write, and how to appre­
ciate and constructively use the world’s modern inventions.
THE INSTITUTE’S DISCOVERIES M U S T BE
MADE AVAILABLE TO THE PEOPLE OF EVERY
LAND, N O M ATTER H O W “ BACK W ARD ” CER­
TAIN OF SUCH PEOPLE M A Y SEEM TO BE BEFORE
THEY ARE TAU G H T THE TRUE VALUE OF
“ UNITED EFFORT” AN D “ BROTHERLY LOVE.”
208 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
Only upon the unequivocal acceptance of such condi'
tions will the inventions and discoveries through which
to provide financial independence to the human race be
given to the two hundred million (200,000,000) people
who will comprise our international audience. Only upon
the signed agreement by each of them, that they will per­
mit the products of their “ equally-owned” Universal Ser­
vice Corporation (which they will at that time be helped to
form) to be distributed “ equally” to the people of every
land, irrespective of race, religion, color, class, education,
training or ability— subject only to the consent of each new
member owner to the same by-laws of brotherly love which
will constitute the eternal and unalterable charter of this
great Service Corporation— will our Research Department
release its revolutionary discoveries into the hands of the
Corporation’s internationally elected Board of Directors.
T H E S E DISCOVERIES W ILL N E V E R BE
ALLOW ED T O STAN D AS A M ONUM ENT TO
THE ACCOMPLISHMENT OF SOME PERSON, OR
GROUP OF PERSONS,— (IN ORDER T H A T SAID
PERSONS M A Y BE GLORIFIED O U T OF ALL PRO­
PORTION T O THEIR REAL IMPORTANCE IN THE
UNIVERSAL SCHEME OF TH IN GS),— N OR AS A
MONUMENT T O A N Y ONE RELIGION, A N Y ONE
N ATION , A N Y ONE CLASS, OR A N Y ONE PRO­
FESSION; FOR NEVER WILL THOSE W H O RE­
VEALED THEM— AN D W H O CONSTITUTE OUR
SPONSORS— BE K N O W N TO THE H UM AN RACE;
A N D THEREFORE, NEVER W ILL RELIGIOUS,
RACIAL, CLASS, OR PROFESSIONAL RIVALRY
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 209
HAVE A N OPPORTUNITY TH ROU GH THE AV E ­
NUES OF “ BIGOTRY,” “JEALOUSY,” “ENVY” OR
“ PRIDE,” TO U NDO A N ACHIEVEMENT W HICH
ONLY “ UNSELFED LOVE” IN THE HEARTS OF
“M A N Y MILLIONS” OF PEOPLE CAN POSSIBLY
BRING TO ULTIMATE FULFILLMENT.
Not only will the immediate abundance of the neces­
sities and luxuries of life, to which we have herein referred,
start flowing to the human race within a period of months
but, with the aid of the world’s numerous mechanical in­
ventions and of our Research Department’s revolutionary
discoveries, they will be produced without the necessity of
any of The Corporation’s employees ever being obliged
— after the first 12 months of its program— to work more
than 4 hours per day, 4 days each week, or over 8 months
in any one year. This ruling will apply both to “ skilled”
and “ unskilled” labor, as well as to office workers and
officials. All employees of said corporation will also re­
ceive three (3) days each week and four (4) entire months
each year of vacation periods with pay.
BEFORE THE END OF THE FIRST YEAR OF
ITS EXISTENCE, THE UNIVERSAL SERVICE COR­
PORATION W ILL BE ABLE T O PAY EACH A N D
EVERY ONE OF ITS EMPLOYEES,— FROM THE
ONES OCCUPYING THE M OST LO W LY POSI­
TIONS, TO THOSE W H O WILL CONSTITUTE ITS
EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS,— A M INI­
M UM SALARY OF THREE TH O U SA N D (£3,000.00)
DOLLARS PER YEAR. W IT H IN LESS T H A N TEN
YEARS FROM THE DATE OF ITS FORM ATION
210 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
EACH EMPLOYEE, FROM THE LOW EST T O THE
HIGHEST, WILL BE RECEIVING N O T LESS TH A N
TH IR TY TH O U SAN D (£30,000.00) DOLLARS PER
YEAR, A N D EVERY M A N A N D W O M A N O N OUR
EARTH — IRRESPECTIVE OF RACE, RELIGION
CLASS OR COLOR— W ILL BE INVITED T O BE­
COME A N EMPLOYEE A N D EQUAL CO-OW NER
THEREOF.
T o those who will get out their pencil and paper and,
within a few minutes of figuring, calculate that there isn’t
that much money in the entire world,— (nor in fact
enough at thirty thousand ($30,000.00) dollars per year—
for each one of the earth’s hundreds of millions of adult
inhabitants— with which to pay them that salary for even
the period of one month),— we beg to remind them that
people do not eat either gold or silver. DOLLARS ARE
ONLY “SYMBOLS” OF VALUE.
If one had a loaf of bread worth ten cents and, after
eating it, was still hungry— and decided he could eat ten
more loaves— he wouldn’t reach into his pocket and expect
to satisfy his hunger by chewing up a dollar’s worth of
ten'cent pieces. Dollars, when converted into that of
which they are only the “ symbols of value,” represent
bread and butter, shoes, dresses, suits, hats, automobiles,
airplanes, homes, beautiful parks, education, amusements,
and all things desired by man.
IT IS N O T DIFFICULT FOR AN Y WELL-
INFORMED M AN OR W O M A N T O PROVE TH A T
THE EARTH ’S RESOURCES ARE AM PLY ABUND­
ANT, A N D T H A T THE W O RLD ’S HIGHLY EX-
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 211
PERIENCED EXECUTIVES, EXPERTS, SPECIAL­
ISTS, SKILLED A N D UNSKILLED LABOR, FAC­
TORIES, MACHINERY A N D MARVELOUS MECH­
ANICAL INVENTIONS, COULD PRODUCE NECES­
SITIES AN D LUXURIES OF. LIFE FOR THE MEM­
BERS OF THE H U M AN RACE TO A N EXTENT
EXCEEDING “ HUNDREDS OF TIMES” T H E I R
CAPACITY T O USE OR T O CONSUME.
If the world’s present number of factories produce
— let us say— an average of three hundred ($300.00)
dollars worth of necessities and luxuries of life for each
of the world's inhabitants, and such production having
proven to be inadequate, mankind votes a salary check
of three thousand ($3,000.00) dollars per year for food,
clothes, homes, etc., to each man and woman employee
and equal co-owner of The Universal Service Corpora­
tion,— all that it will be necessary for them to do then,
is not to produce more gold or silver-—or to print more
money— but merely to build more “ factories” and
“ machinery” and produce more food, clothes, homes, etc.
When mankind decide that each man or woman should
have thirty thousand ($30,000.00) dollars instead of three
thousand ($3,000.00) dollars per year, they will again in­
crease the number of their factories, and continue to do
so until the desired quantities of necessities and luxuries
which they may choose to use, are finally being produced.
The Research Department of The International In­
stitute of Universal Research and Administration will,
during its 30-day program of proclamations, “ irrefutably”
prove to even the most skeptical of men and women, that
212 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
the factories and the farms of The Universal Service
Corporation will be capable, (within a period of less than
12 months from the date of mankind’s acceptance of its
program), of producing a minimum of three thousand
($3,000.00) dollars worth of commodities, services, etc.,
per year for every man and woman on this earth, and an
average of one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars worth of
desired commodities for every member of the human race
under 18 years of age. Our Research Department will
at that time also prove that the productive capacity of
said corporation will exceed an average of thirty thousand
($30,000.00) dollars per year— of the necessities and
luxuries of life— per man or woman, within less than ten
(10) years from the date of its formation.
W ITH IN O N E M O NTH AFTER THE CON­
CLUSION OF OUR RESEARCH DEPARTM ENT’S
30-DAY PROGRAM , W HEN A SUFFICIENT PER­
CENTAGE OF ITS AUDIENCE OF T W O HUNDRED
MILLION (200,000,000) MEN A N D W OM EN HAS
VOTED IN FAVOR OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF
BUSINESS FACILITIES THROUGH THE FORM A­
TION OF THE UNIVERSAL SERVICE CORPORA­
TION, OUR RESEARCH DEPARTMENT “ GU AR­
ANTEES” T H A T SAID CORPORATION’S NUMER­
OUS DEPARTMENTS WILL THEN BE CAPABLE
OF “IMMEDIATELY” HIRING THE UNEMPLOYED
MEN A N D W OM EN OF THE W O RLD ’S CIVILIZED
NATIONS, A T THE RATE OF CONSIDERABLY
OVER T W O MILLION (2,000,000) PEOPLE PER
WEEK.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 213
Tens of millions of unemployed men and women
throughout the major nations of the world, have been
forced into idleness and hardships by the manipulations
of the “ Money Changers,” not only for reasons which
have been described in the previous pages hereof, but
most particularly for the purpose of causing resentment,
bitterness and hate in their hearts against their present
governments, in order that they might thereby more
readily be influenced into drastically altering their various
governmental structures and accepting dictatorships in
their stead or, if sufficiently embittered, be influenced into
joining the ranks of the Communists and— (through a
carefully staged revolution, planned and financed by the
Money Changers)— bring about the complete overthrow
of their former governments and appoint Communist
dictators as their leaders and governors.
All well-informed people are fully aware of the fact
that these plans to cause discontent and bitterness in the
hearts of millions of people have already reached the point
where there are some millions of Communists and Fas­
cists in France, other millions in England, and over ten
million (10,000,000) members of these various radical
groups even in the “ United States of America,” which al­
ready provides its people with greater liberty and freedom
than have ever before been enjoyed by the citizens of any
nation.
ALL WELL-INFORMED INDIVIDUALS A R E
ALSO FULLY A W AR E OF THE FACT T H A T THE
UNEMPLOYED O F EVERY M A J O R N ATION
COULD— DURING THE PAST FEW YEARS— HAVE
214 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
BEEN PROVIDED W ITH PERMANENT POSITIONS
“A T A N Y TIME” W ITH IN A PERIOD OP LESS
TH AN “NINETY D A YS” BY THE POLITICAL
LEADERS OF THE RESPECTIVE AD M INISTRA­
TIONS, IF SUCH LEADERS H A D BEEN WILLING
OR COURAGEOUS ENOUGH A T A N Y ONE TIME
TO OVERCOME THE STRANGLE-HOLD A N D
P O L I T I C A L INFLUENCE OF THE “MONEY
CHANGERS” FOR EVEN A PERIOD OF A FEW
WEEKS.
THE F A C T T H A T S I N C E “ 1929” N O T
EVEN ONE N ATIO N HAS BEEN ABLE TO SUPPLY
“ PERMANENT” POSITIONS FOR ITS U N E M-
PLOYED— (O R TO BREAK THE BACKBONE OF
THE HIDDEN RULERS’ CAREFULLY PLANNED
W ORLD-W IDE DEPRESSION)— SHOULD PROVIDE
SUFFICIENT EVIDENCE FOR A N Y INTELLIGENT
H UM AN BEING T O PROVE T H A T IT IS HOPE­
LESSLY FUTILE TO EVEN ATTEM PT TO IMPROVE
CONDITIONS OF HUM AN LIFE ON OUR EARTH
THROUGH THE PROCESS OF “ W RITIN G ‘LITTLE
CROSSES’ ON PIECES OF PAPER W HICH W E CALL
BALLOTS,” A N D EXPECT— IN SOME M IRACU­
LOUS M ANNER— T O CAUSE THE “ LEOPARD”
T O CHANGE ITS SPOTS.
THE POLITICAL MACHINES OF THE W ORLD
H AVE BEEN FOR CENTURIES— A N D ARE TO D A Y
— OW NED “ BODY A N D SOUL” BY THE W O R LD ’S
HIDDEN RULERS, AN D ARE FULLY A N D COM ­
PLETELY C O N T R O L L E D A T THEIR WILL
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 215
THROUGH THE AVENUES OF THEIR VA ST
CENTURY-OLD ACCUM ULATIONS OF THE GOLD
A N D SILVER RESERVES OF THE W ORLD.
IF A N Y SUPPORTING EVIDENCE IS NEEDED
IN JUSTIFICATION OF THE STATEM ENT T H A T
THE UNEMPLOYED COULD BE PUT IN TO POSI­
TIONS A T A N Y TIME W ITH IN NINETY (90)
DAYS, IT IS ONLY NECESSARY T O RECALL THE
FACT T H A T LESS TH A N ONE ONE-HUNDREDTH
PART OF THE FERTILE SOIL ON O U R PLANET
HAS EVER BEEN PLOWED. W IT H MILLIONS OF
H U M AN BEINGS DYING OF STA R V A TIO N EVERY
M ONTH, SURELY A FEW OF THE UNEMPLOYED
COULD BE PUT T O W ORK, W ITH IN A M ATTER
OF WEEKS, A N D BE GRADUALLY TA U G H T H O W
T O PROVIDE FOOD FOR THEMSELVES AS WELL
AS FOR THESE STARVIN G MILLIONS.
The completion of great flood-control and reforesta­
tion projects, harbors, highways and air ports; the develop­
ment of national parks; draining of swamps; and the build­
ing of gigantic irrigation systems to take water into the
deserts that they might be converted into useful and beauti­
ful spots for the profit and enjoyment of the human race,
would provide work for “ hundreds of millions” of men
and women for a period of “ generations” yet to come.
If you should doubt these statements, all that it is neces­
sary for you to do is to take the time to investigate the
thousands of completed engineering plans of projects which
are greatly needed by mankind and which— if undertaken
■
—would provide permanent and constructive activity and
216 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
employment during the entire lifetime of millions who are
now looking forward to hopeless and endless years of idle-
ness and unemployment.
Instead these idle millions are filled— (as it has been
planned that they should be)— with such “ bitterness and
hate” that, with but slight additional provocation, they may
soon bring about revolutions which will make the “bloody
years” of the French Revolution seem like a “ children’s
fight at a Sunday-school picnic” in comparison. For such are
the upheavals which are planned as a prologue to the war
which is intended to result in the extermination of
the world’s educated and religious inhabitants, including
also those who have been stirred to revolt, and who are
to be merely a part of the “ cannon fodder” they will be
inflamed into creating out of the educated and religious
peoples of our earth.
The oft-repeated excuse that no great numbers of un­
employed can ever be quickly placed in positions because
of the fact that it would take months or years to plan and
prepare the engineering studies, blue prints, and specifi­
cations for projects with which to keep them engaged,
would be quickly dissipated if one were to take the time
to glance over the “ dust-covered” files of every city, state,
and national government throughout the civilized world.
Such files— “ at this time”— contain completed engineering
studies together with blue prints and fully checked specifi­
cations, of thousands of thoroughly practical and desirable
projects; and most of which are greatly needed by the
residents of the respective communities in which they are
located.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 2 1 7
These various engineering studies have been com-
pleted— year after year— at a cost (calculated on a world­
wide basis) of “ thousands of millions of dollars” of tax­
payers’ money,— by the duly elected or politically appointed
representatives of the people, during periods of their re­
spective administrations. However, before they could
establish the necessary budgets with which to buy materials
and hire men for the purposes of actual construction—
(as they have invariably told us)— these representatives
have been voted out of office and new ones, with an
entirely “ different” group of constituents to please, have
started new engineering studies for “entirely different pro­
jects” in accordance with promises made to the voters who
placed them in office.
'i The principal reason that these countless thousands
of projects have never gotten past the “blue print and
specification stage,” is traceable to the fact that the majority
of the people's political representatives “ never actually in­
tended to complete them at all,” but only “promised” to
do so in order that they might thereby win the necessary
votes to put themselves into office. Nevertheless, these
completed engineering studies are “instantly available” at
any time the public demands their use.
WHENEVER THE “ INTELLIGENT” MEN AN D
W OM EN W H O CONSTITUTE THE WILLING
WORKERS AN D CONSTRUCTIVE THINKERS OF
THE W ORLD, “DEM AND” T H A T ALL ABLE-
BODIED UNEMPLOYED ADULTS BE IMMEDIATE­
LY PROVIDED W ITH PERMANENT POSITIONS,
218 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
A N D W HENEVER THEY ESTABLISH “ COMMER­
CIAL FACILITIES” — INSTEAD OF “ POLITICAL
ONES” — THROUGH W HICH T O “ ENFORCE”
THEIR DEMANDS, THEN— A N D ONLY T H E N -
WILL THERE BE NEITHER HUNGRY N OR UN­
EMPLOYED H UM AN BEINGS ON OUR EARTH.
During one of our Research Department’s extensive
investigations in China, Japan, and certain countries in
Europe, it was discovered that a force of over one hundred
million (100,000,000) gardeners,— (whose ancestry comes
from those who have for centuries lived close to the soil
and know and love plant life),— could— within a period
of a matter of weeks— be formed into an organization
whose members would consent to live in any part of the
world or travel to any point to which they might be sent,
and who would gladly spend the remaining years of their
lives working as gardeners in exchange for no other salary
or remuneration than that consisting of the coarsest kinds
of food, and the plainest, roughest kind of clothing. And
the only homes they ask for are tents or plain board huts.
IF ANYON E W OU LD GUARANTEE T O FEED
THESE PEOPLE A N D CONSEQUENTLY QUIET
THEIR FEAR OF “STA R V A TIO N ,” THEY W OULD
WILLINGLY W O RK 16 T O 18 HOURS PER DAY,
A N D FOR N O MORE REMUNERATION TH AN
JUST BARELY ENOUGH TO EAT. W ITH THE
W O RLD ’S CIVILIZED (?) NATIONS DESTROYING
ALM OST “ UNLIMITED” QUANTITIES OF FOOD
EACH YEAR, DOES N O T SUCH A PITIABLE
CONDITION SEEM A T LEAST “SLIGHTLY” UN­
JUSTIFIABLE?
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 219
In fact, we could almost wish that each of our readers
had experienced just a few days of “ hopeless poverty”
and “ ceaseless hunger,” in order that each one who reads
this statement might thereby be capable of fully appreciat-
ing the tragedy of a condition of thought which would
cause human beings to offer to “ sell” themselves as slaves
— (for the duration of their lifetime here on earth)— to
anyone who would guarantee them just enough food to
keep from “ starving to death.”
Can you picture the endless miles of beautiful parks
and tree-lined highways; the thousands of little artificial
lakes and man-made streams— in otherwise arid sections;
the playgrounds, athletic fields and recreation centers,
which would provide opportunity for the constructive
and happy use of leisure hours, if all of the world’s
“ hungry” people were employed for the purpose of pro­
ducing such results? These advantages could be made
readily available for the people of every land, through
the activities of a permanent force of one hundred million
(100,000,000) men and women trained to design, develop,
and permanently maintain thousands of great parks and
recreation centers as a protection against the ugliness and
lack of beauty which now exist in so many of the world’s
great cities. The drab and frequently filthy— as well as
colorless— immediate environment and surroundings en­
dured by the majority of the earth’s inhabitants, have
done much throughout the centuries to warp and distort
the minds of men.
INASMUCH A S M AN KIN D’S EXECUTIVE
TALENTS WERE QUITE ABLE TO EFFICIENTLY
220 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
DIRECT A N A R M Y OF OVER SIXTY-FIVE MIL­
LION (65,000,000) MEN— ENGAGED IN THE TASK
OF “SLAUGHTERING” ONE ANO TH ER DURING
THE LAST W ORLD W A R — SURELY NO ONE CAN
QUESTION THE ABILITY OF THE W O RLD ’S
EXECUTIVES T O EFFICIENTLY DIRECT THE
ACTIVITIES OF ONE H U N D R E D MILLION
(100,000,000) MEN A N D W OM EN W H O WILL BE
ENGAGED IN THE PEACEFUL TASK OF TURN­
ING OUR W O RLD INTO A PARADISE OF BEAU­
TIFUL PARKS.
Knowing the readiness with which our planet could
be made to produce an abundance of food for all man­
kind, our Sponsors have planned— and will recommend to
the Universal Service Corporation— that a standing force
of not less than one hundred million (100,000,000) men
and women landscape architects and gardeners be main­
tained as a permanent branch of said corporation’s acti­
vities. Knowing that such workers will receive the same
educational benefits and compensation as any other group
of employees, and that they will not be required to work
any more than the usual 4 hours per day, 4 days a week
or over 8 months each year, is it not indeed an inspiring
vision— “ and an ambition worthy of intelligent creatures”
— to contemplate providing such employment for the tens
of millions of broken-spirited, fear-filled human beings who
now ask no more from life than merely “ enough food”
to keep from dying?
IT IS T O THOSE W H O THINK T H A T SUCH
A N AMBITION IS W O R T H Y OF FULFILLMENT,
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 221
AN D TH A T SUCH PLANS FOR THE HAPPINESS
OF THE H UM AN RACE JUSTIFY THEIR CO­
OPERATION, TH A T W E EXTEND THIS IN V ITA ­
TION TO LEARN OF THE DISCOVERIES AN D
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE INTERNATIONAL
INSTITUTE OF UNIVERSAL RESEARCH AN D
ADM INISTRATION.
Yes; our Research Department is well prepared to
prove to the clear-thinking men and women of our genera­
tion, that every unemployed human being in every civil­
ized nation on our earth, can be placed in permanent
positions “ at any time” within a period of but a few
months—and at the rate of over two million (2,000,000)
people per week— starting one month after The Universal
Service Corporation has been voted into existence.
When the members of our audience of two hundred
million (200,000,000) people have agreed to unite and
direct their buying power through what will then be their
own mutually and equally owned business facilities, they
will have a combined influence of over “ one thousand mil­
lion ($1000,000,000) dollars” per day with which to back
up their united demand that “ permanent" positions be
"immediately” provided for all unemployed. THERE
WILL BE N O OCCASION FOR THEM HESITATING
TO TAKE SUCH ACTION , INASMUCH AS THEY
WILL ALL RECEIVE “EQUAL” BENEFITS THERE­
FROM.
EACH OW NER OF SAID CORPORATION WILL
H AVE A N “ EQUAL” VO TE IN ITS M AN AGE­
MENT, AN D WILL BE OBLIGED T O CAST HIS
222 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
VOTE ON ALL M ATTERS REQUIRING SUCH
ACTIO N ; N OR W ILL HE BE PERMITTED T O RE­
TA IN HIS OWNERSHIP THEREIN UNLESS HE
TAKES THE TIME TO ATTEN D ALL REGULAR
A N D SPECIAL BUSINESS MEETINGS OF HIS
LOCAL BRANCH OF THE CORPORATION, IN
ORDER TH A T HE M A Y PERSONALLY UNDER­
STAN D ITS ACTIVITIES AN D INTELLIGENTLY
VOTE W HEN CALLED UPON T O D O SO. THERE
WILL BE N O VOTES BY “ PROXY” A N D THERE­
FORE N O OPPORTUNITY FOR A N Y “INDIVID­
U AL” OR “ M INORITY GROUP” TO USE THE
BUSINESS FACILITIES OF THE CORPORATION
FOR THEIR O W N SELFISH ENDS.
Although the majority of the citizens of many coun-
tries regularly vote on the various political issues presented
to them, the fact still remains that they are seldom allowed
to “ actually understand” the issues upon which they vote;
and not “ one” out of ten thousand of them— at any time
— “ really knows” what is “ actually taking place” on the
inside of the world’s constantly changing political adminis­
trations. The public is therefore readily “ duped” into
supporting many projects which have been cunningly con­
ceived for purposes directly the reverse of those for which
people thought they were voting.
Compulsory attendance at the respective local branch-
business meetings of The Universal Service Corporation
will be for the purpose of permanently preventing its
owners from “ unknowingly” consenting to activities of
which they may not approve. In due course of time,
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 223
through the avenues of radio and television equipment
placed in each home throughout the world, such business
meetings will be conducted from one central point, and
each owner of The Universal Service Corporation will be
able to vote his acceptance or rejection of the various
measures presented to him, right from his own home . . .
Through mechanical facilities— which have already been
perfected— he will be able to vote by writing his signature
and membership number with the use of an electrical device
which will enable such information to be instantly recorded
in the statistical department of the Corporation’s Inter'
national Headquarters. In other words, at that time it will
no longer be necessary for a member to leave his home in
order to attend the Corporation’s business meetings, or act
upon the various measures requiring his vote. Such
measures will be described a number of times during each
twenty-four hours, until all of the members have had an
opportunity to cast their votes.* The “ universal language”
— which will be internationally understood by the world’s
intelligent and educated citizens within less than twelve
months after the formation of The Universal Service Cor­
poration— will greatly simplify such activities. Within
less than ten years, said “ universal language” will be under­
stood and readily used by every civilized man and woman
on our earth, for even at this time its principal features
are regularly used by well over three hundred million
(300,000,000) educated people.
Through a system of “ constant rotation in office,” in
terms of from one to a maximum of three years, a large
* These facilities will also be available for those who are traveling
or away from their homes.
224 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
percentage of the world-wide membership of the Corpora­
tion will be given the opportunity of occupying various
official positions at the Corporation’s International Head­
quarters and consequently— from first hand observation—
will be well qualified to vote intelligently upon matters
requiring an expression of their judgment.
IN ORDER T H A T “TRUE EQUALITY” AND
“JUSTICE” M A Y PREVAIL, — “ R O TATIO N IN
OFFICE” W ILL CONSTITUTE THE PERMANENT
A N D UNALTERABLE POLICY OF THIS GREAT
CO-OPERATIVELY OW NED SERVICE CORPORA­
TION. Its charter will contain specific provisions pro­
hibiting any one, either now or ever in the future, from
owning more than one share of its value— from having
more than one vote in its management— or from holding
an office or occupying any “ one” position for a period of
over “ one” year without the written consent of 80% of
the employees directly under such a one’s supervision, and
in no event, nor under any circumstances whatsoever, over
three years.
An executive who is not capable of training his im­
mediate assistant to assume higher responsibilities within
not to exceed a three-year period— in order that he himself
may be free to advance into broader fields of activity— will
not possess the qualifications which our charter will require
of its executives.
No employee will be permitted to occupy a position
without first agreeing to strive to advance in accordance
with such a one’s proven qualifications. When one has
proven that he possesses the qualifications and the necessary
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 225
proficiency to occupy an advanced position over the one
he is already filling,— and has assisted his immediate under-
study to gain the necessary training for the position he
desires to leave,— an opportunity for such advancement will
constantly be made available in periods of from one to not
over three years’ time.
In other words all employees, from those occupying
the most lowly positions to those who will constitute The
Universal Service Corporation’s Executive Board, will each
be helped to progress in accordance with such employee’s
respective abilities, and without having to wait for some
one in an advanced position either to die— or voluntarily
retire— after possibly having obstructed the progress and
deserved advancement of numerous other worthy em­
ployees for fifteen or twenty years, as they now do under
our present economic (“lack of” ) system.
Unlimited opportunities for study and self-improve­
ment will be made available to all employees, and there
will be no need for anyone being obliged to engage in
activities for which one may possess neither the natural
aptitude nor the potential qualifications. W hen it is dis­
covered that an employee seems incapable of advancing in
a department, in which said employee may be active, im­
mediate and highly specialized assistance will be provided
to enable such a “ misfit”— or dissatisfied employee— to
find the type of work for which he or she may possess the
requisite qualifications.
The “ Personnel” department of the Corporation will
be so conducted that neither the factors of favoritism nor
family relationship will enter into the selection of employees
226 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
for the most highly-prized or desired positions, nor for
those of lesser importance. Civil Service examinations and
numerous practical tests— conducted by recognized author­
ities and qualified experts— will be made available for those
desiring positions with The Universal Service Corporation.
A SUITABLE A N D DESIRABLE POSITION
WILL BE GUARANTEED TO EVERY ABLE-BODIED
M AN OR W O M A N IN A N Y PART OF THE W ORLD,
IRRESPECTIVE OF RACE, COLOR, CLASS, RE­
LIGION, EDUCATION, TRAIN ING OR ABILITY.
Although the standard wage scale for all workers,
from the lowest to the highest positions, will be calculated
at three thousand ($3,000.00) dollars per year each—
during the initial stage of the Corporation’s existence—
it will— however— be gradually increased until within a
period of approximately ten years, the Corporation’s pro­
ductive capacity will enable it to distribute approximately
thirty thousand ($30,000.00) dollars per year, of the
various necessities and luxuries of human life, to every
man or woman throughout the world.
Under the proposed new economic system there will
be neither creditors nor debtors to keep human beings in
bondage to one another, nor to despoil one’s life of the
natural heritage of freedom and peace. The temptation
to endanger one’s future happiness by overdrawing one’s
credit will be prevented, not only through the adoption of
a type of currency which only the individual earning or
directly receiving it from the Corporation can spend or
use, but also through a provision of the Corporation’s char­
ter which will prevent any of its employees and owners
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 227
from ever exceeding their respective allotments of its pro-
ducts. Inasmuch as The Universal Service Corporation
will be the only producing and distributing business estab­
lishment with which the public will finally be dealing, the
exact amounts of credit due each of the earth's inhabitants
will always be readily available. Instead of having to refer
to the books of many smaller business establishments, in
order to determine the amount of unused credit, there will
be but “ one” bookkeeping account to be taken into con­
sideration and, therefore, but slight opportunity of anyone
ever misusing or overdrawing credit.
W HEN THERE IS N O LONGER A N Y “ FEAR”
OR “ W O R R Y ” OVER PROBLEMS OF EMPLOY­
MENT OR INCOME, A N D W HEN— ALTHOUGH
PEOPLE M A Y PURCHASE W H ATEVER THEY M A Y
INDIVIDUALLY DESIRE T O POSSESS— THERE IS
N O T ONLY A N ASSURED, BUT ALSO A N “ EQUAL”
INCOME FOR ALL,— AN D W HEN H U M AN BEINGS
CONSEQUENTLY H AVE LESS “JEALOUSY, ENVY
OR H ATE” IN THEIR HEARTS TO W A R D S ONE
ANOTHER,— W E WILL FIND T H A T M OST OF THE
“ PHYSICAL” AILMENTS OF THE H UM AN RACE
WILL ALSO SUDDENLY DISAPPEAR LIKE BANKS
OF FOG BEFORE THE RAYS OF THE SUN. M A N Y
OF THE W O R LD ’S LEADING DOCTORS AN D
HEALTH SPECIALISTS H AVE IN RECENT YEARS
AGREED W ITH T H E W O RLD ’S PROMINENT
METAPHYSICIANS, T H A T NEARLY “ ALL” OF
M A N ’S PHYSICAL AILMENTS AN D DISEASES
ARE “DIRECTLY” TRACEABLE,— N O T ALONE TO
W H A T MEN CALL UNCLEAN THOUGHTS AN D
228 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
ACTIONS, OR TO U NSANITARY CONDITIONS OF
HUM AN LIFE— BUT EQUALLY— “ IF N O T EVEN
PRIMARILY”— TO THE QUALITIES OF W ORRY,
FEAR, JEALOUSY, ENVY, HATE, GREED, SELFISH­
NESS A N D FALSE PRIDE, W H ICH H AVE FOR SO
M A N Y CENTURIES CEASELESSLY HARASSED
AN D TO RN D O W N THE H ARM O N Y OF M A N ­
KIND’S THOUGHTS, AS WELL AS THE H ARM O N Y
OF THEIR ACTIONS.
W hen one observes how the effect of “ fear”—
“ENTIRELY A MENTAL QU ALITY”— causes the blood
to “ instantly” drain from one’s face and causes it to turn
almost white;— and then again— when one’s thoughts are
suddenly filled with “ anger or hate”— to observe the blood
surge to one’s face until its shade of color turns from deep
red to almost a purplish tint— “ A N D THIS CONDITION
ALSO CAUSED ENTIRELY BY TH O U G H T”— it is
not difficult to visualize the extreme action and strain to
which the numerous delicately-balanced organs of the body
must be subjected before they can cause such effects to
appear.
When one contemplates the ceaseless tension and
strain caused by men’s endless fears and worries,— and the
constant jealousy, envy, bitterness, hate, greed and selfish­
ness to which our present economic system of injustice and
inequality constantly subjects the thoughts—and con­
sequently the bodily functionings of men— it is not hard to
understand the cause of most of mankind’s physical ail­
ments.
It is not difficult to envisage the early appearance of
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 229
a race of clean-thinking, clean-living, wholesome, happy
men and women— and fearlessly joyous little children—
soon after a “ written guarantee” of economic security and
equality is placed in the hands of each of the inhabitants
of our world; a “ lifelong guarantee” signed by the secretary
and treasurer of The Universal Service Corporation which
will— (with its initial capital of over twenty billions of
dollars ($20,000,000,000.00), and the united backing of
approximately two hundred million (200,000,000) of the
world's most intelligent and industrious citizens)— be quite
capable of fulfilling its promises and guarantees.
THROUGH N O LESSER MEANS TH AN T H A T
OF “ GUARANTEED FINANCIAL INDEPENDENCE”
AN D “ ABSOLUTE ECONOMIC EQUALITY” CAN
M ANKIND HOPE TO FIND EITHER “HEALTH,”
“PEACE,” “SECURITY” OR “HAPPINESS.”
In addition to the benefits just described, mankind’s
acceptance of our Research Department’s recommend­
ations will also make possible the priceless assurance of
“ample leisure” for all. The only arbitrary work require­
ment, applying to all employees, will consist of a minimum
working schedule of not less than 4 hours a day, 4 days
each week, during 8 months of each year. A t the con­
clusion of twenty (20) years an employee will be privileged
to permanently retire from routine duties if he so desires
and yet will receive his or her share of the Corporation’s
products, services, and benefits for the duration of his or
her lifetime. However, all employees will be privileged
to earn retirement within a period of only ten (10) years,
provided they are willing to work 8 hours a day, 4 days
230 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
each week, during 8 months of each of said ten (10) years.
F A R M E R S A N D OTHERS, — W H O ARE
OBLIGED — “ UNDER OUR PRESENT ECONOMIC
SYSTEM”— TO W O RK FROM BEFORE DAYLIGHT
IN THE MORNINGS UNTIL AFTER DARK EACH
NIGHT IN ORDER T O EARN A LIVING,— M AY
BE TEMPTED TO BELIEVE T H A T A FOUR (4)-
HOUR W O RK D A Y COULD NEVER SUCCESS­
FULLY BE BROUGHT T O PASS. HOW EVER, IF
THEY W ILL BEAR IN MIND THE FACT TH A T
FROM “FOUR T O FIVE” MEN OR W OM EN WILL
BE HELPING TO PERFORM THE TASKS N O W
EXPECTED OF ONLY “ ONE” PERSON, A N D IF
SUCH OF OUR READERS W ILL ALSO BEAR IN
MIND THE FACT T H A T THE “ FINEST M ACH IN­
ERY” A N D “LATEST M ECHANICAL INVENTIONS”
WILL BE USED TO REPLACE MOST OF THE
LABORIOUS D R U D G E R Y OF PRESENT-DAY
METHODS, IT SHOULD N O T BE DIFFICULT TO
VISUALIZE THE ACCOMPLISHMENT OF NOT
ONLY AS LARGE BUT A N INFINITELY LARGER
VOLUME OF PRODUCTION T H A N H AS EVER
BEFORE BEEN ACHIEVED, “ A N D W ITH N O ONE
REQUIRED T O W O R K OVER FOUR (4) HOURS
PER D A Y .”
In addition to the previously mentioned pensions, there
will also be provided a pension benefit consisting of an
equal share of the Corporation’s products and services for
all men or women who are— or who may become— incapaci­
tated and unable to work. Also similar pension benefits
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 231
for all men and women over sixty years of age— (or over
fifty years of age, after the Corporation has been in ex-
istence for ten years)— and for those of fifty years of age,
or over, who assist in its formation at this time.
All men and women within these classifications— who
may desire to retire from routine duties and devote the re-
maining years of their lives to study, travel or leisure—
will be granted pensions of not less than three thousand
($3,000.00) dollars per year.
W HEN W E THINK OF THE ELDERLY PEOPLE
W H O ARE FREQUENTLY U N W AN TED — A N D BUT
SELDOM LOVINGLY CARED FOR— THESE PEN­
SION FEATURES OF OUR CORPORATION’S CH AR­
TER W OU LD OF THEMSELVES BE SUFFICIENT T O
FULLY JUSTIFY THE UNITED ACTIONS OF THE
ENTIRE H U M AN RACE TO W A R D S THE IM ­
MEDIATE ESTABLISHMENT OF “ THE UNIVER­
SAL SERVICE CORPORATION.”
Each employee of the Corporation will be allowed
three (3) days each week, and four (4) entire months
each year of vacation time. All workers will have their
choice of receiving one month out of each three— two con­
secutive months out of each six— three consecutive months
out of each nine— or a four (4) months’ vacation at the
conclusion of each eight (8) months of continuous work,
in accordance with the daily and weekly schedules pre­
viously described.
All employees will be entitled to “ free transportation”
during vacations— (subject to reasonable rules and regula­
tions)— to any part of the civilized world which is now or
232 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
may in the future be made accessible by regular rail, steam­
ship or air lines. Such unrestricted and free world-wide
travel will quickly remove the “ racial antagonisms” which
result from mankind’s lack of familiarity with— and conse­
quent inability to understand— one another’s customs and
habits. Such a lack of understanding has cast the human
race into endless wars and for countless centuries has pre­
vented the “ BROTHERHOOD OF M A N ” from becom­
ing an actuality. IN ORDER T H A T THESE “ ENTIRE­
LY U N W ARRAN TED ANTAG ONISM S” M A Y BE
QUICKLY HEALED, F R E E TRANSPORTATION
DURING THE CORPO RATIO N ’S G E N E R O U S
V A C A TIO N PERIODS WILL BE AVAILABLE TO
ALL, AN D N O ONE WILL BE CONSIDERED “ EVEN
PARTLY EDUCATED” UNTIL HE HAS PERSON­
ALLY VISITED THE MAJOR N ATION S A N D OUT­
STANDINGLY INTERESTING PARTS OF OUR IN­
DESCRIBABLY BEAUTIFUL W O RLD HOME.
For fear that men might travel and thereby learn of
the world’s inexhaustible resources,— and that the people
of foreign nations are neither murderers nor enemies
against whom we must defend ourselves by building vast
armaments,— those in charge of the world’s governments
and its basic economic structure— (“ through their con­
trol of its resources” ) — have been able to guard against
any great number of men or women ever being allowed
the privilege of more than one or two weeks of leisure
time— “ or vacations with pay”— each year. A N D THOSE
W H O ARE N O W ALLOW ED VACATION S, HAVE
USUALLY H A D THEIR MENTAL AN D PHYSICAL
ENERGIES SO DEPLETED PRIOR THERETO, TH A T
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 233
THEIR PRINCIPAL DESIRE IS TO REST AN D SLEEP
DURING MOST OF THEIR LEISURE HOURS, OR
TO SEEK SOME LIGHT FORM OF AMUSEMENT.
Inasmuch as one of the major objectives of The Uni­
versal Service Corporation will be to “ melt away”— (in­
stead of to create)— misunderstandings among the various
nationalities and classes of human beings, “ free” world­
wide travel will not only be granted to the Corporation’s
employees during their vacation periods, but will also be a
“ compulsory requirement” of the Corporation’s educa­
tional system for all young men and women under eight­
een years of age.
If there are those who may believe that men and
women would either get into “ mischief” or become “bored”
with life, if they were allowed as much vacation time as
Our Sponsors have guaranteed to provide,— we beg to re­
mind them of their own earlier dreams, and the yearnings
which once filled their hearts with a desire that they
might have both the financial means and leisure time, as
well as the educational opportunities, with which to
develop the natural talents and special capabilities with
which they believed themselves to be endowed.
IF ALL PEOPLE WERE ASSURED OF ADE­
QUATE FINANCIAL INCOME, FREE EDUCA­
TIONAL A N D TRAVEL PRIVILEGES, TOGETHER
W ITH REGULAR PERIODS OF LEISURE, THERE
W OULD ONLY BE A FEW OU T OF EACH TH OU ­
SAND OF THE W O RLD ’S POPULATION W H O
W OULD N O T MAKE “ CONSTRUCTIVE” AND
234 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
“ WHOLESOME” USE OF SUCH LEISURE HOURS
A N D GENEROUS VACATIONS.
Through the construction of thousands of beautiful
parks, athletic fields, playgrounds and recreation centers,
limitless opportunities will be provided by the Corporation
for the development of clean, wholesome and— conse-
quently— “ healthy” habits of thought and action.
W e again repeat that if there were no other justifi­
cation for the establishment of the Universal Service Cor­
poration-—recommended by our research department—
than the influence which this feature of its program will
have upon the formation of “much needed qualities of
character,” it would warrant the whole-hearted support
and co-operation of every clean-thinking, intelligent man
and woman in our world today.
Do you know of any “ real” fundamental reason why
men and women should not be allowed to use at least “ one
third” of each year to do with as they might desire? It
is now possible for any one, if properly equipped with suit-
able machinery and mechanical appliances, to produce as
much during a four-hour work day as our ancestors did
by working sixteen hours or more per day. Then why
do most people spend eleven and one-half months out of
every twelve— and literally all of their daylight hours—
working just for food, clothes, shelter and a possible two
weeks’ vacation out of each year, which our present system
of greed and selfishness generously (?) permits them to
call their own? IS IT N O T BECAUSE THE MECHANI­
CAL IMPROVEMENTS AN D MARVELOUS INVEN­
TIONS OF OUR GENERATION— W HICH SHOULD
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 235
H AVE MEANT SECURITY, FREEDOM, A N D LEI­
SURE “ TO THE ENTIRE H U M AN FAMILY”— ARE
CONTROLLED BY “ A FEW” AN D USED PRIM AR­
ILY FOR ACQUIRING EXCESSIVE LUXURIES AN D
FABULOUS W EALTH FOR THE FAMILIES AN D
IMMEDIATE FRIENDS OF “ THOSE FEW,” INSTEAD
OF FOR THE WELFARE A N D HAPPINESS OF ALL?
Are we justified, however, in blaming the majority of
people who take advantage of the world’s competitive pri­
vate profit system for their own personal gain, (and with
but little— if any consideration for others,) when it is
more than likely that many of those who read this book
would gladly— “ and quite naturally”— accept and fully en­
joy an opportunity for the accumulation of a large amount
of wealth themselves? No, we most certainly are not justi­
fied in blaming them unless we are willing to raise our
voices in protest against an economic system which makes
such injustices possible, and such exercise of greed seem­
ingly necessary and desirable.
The privileges of greed and selfishness can no longer
be allowed to exist, since they result in ninety-seven out
of every one hundred inhabitants of our earth, being in­
evitably forced to go through life living solely for the
purpose of providing “ dissipations” or “ excessive luxuries”
for the other three inhabitants, who— as a result in the
majority of instances— are turned into swinish, self-cen­
tered, dissipated, depraved human beings. . . . Poor abnor­
mal— unbalanced mortals, who would be healthier, happier
and much more satisfied with life, through much more
236 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
“ constructive self-expression,” and much, much less “ des­
tructive self-indulgence.”
NEVER IN ALL OF HUM AN HISTORY HAS
M AN H AD SO M AN Y MECHANICAL INVENTIONS
AN D FACILITIES, TOGETHER W ITH SUCH LIMIT-
LESS OPPORTUNITIES FOR FINDING HAPPI­
NESS. AUTOMOBILES, AIRPLANES, RADIO AND
TELEVISION H AVE N O W MADE IT POSSIBLE FOR
EACH MEMBER OF THE HUM AN RACE T O EN­
JOY THE RESOURCES A N D BEAUTIES— N O T OF
JUST ONE, BUT OF ALL THE W O RLD ’S NATIONS
— A N D T O CONSIDER N O T JUST ONE LOCALITY
OR COM M UNITY AS HIS HOME, BUT THE “ EN­
TIRE W O RLD ” W ITH ALL T H A T IS THEREIN AS
“HIS GREAT ESTATE.”
ARE W E GOING TO REMAIN IN BONDAGE
TO A HANDFUL OF “ DEPRAVED M AN IACS,”
W H O THINK THEY H AVE BEEN “ DIVINELY OR­
DAINED” T O O W N OUR W ORLD A N D DOM IN­
ATE ITS INHABITANTS? ARE W E GOING T O LET
THEM STEAL THE FRUITAGE OF THE PAST
THOUSANDS OF YEARS OF H U M AN PROGRESS
W ITH ANOTH ER OF THEIR DEMONIACALLY
PLANNED D EVASTATIN G W ARS, AN D SUBMIT
T O A N ERA OF UNCONTROLLABLE SLAUGHTER
AN D INDESCRIBABLE HORROR, MERELY TO
SATISFY THEIR INSANE AMBITION T O “ O W N
THE EARTH ” A N D T O ENSLAVE ITS INHABIT­
ANTS?
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 237
The world’s Hidden Rulers have no fear of the actions
of many “ little groups”— or even a few “very large ones”
— (led either by sincere but frequently inadequately in'
formed men or women or by those who seek the glorifi'
cation of their own personalities.)— The only power of
which these subversive forces have even the slightest fear,
is the power of “ Brotherly Love” and “ Unity of Purpose,”
exemplified by Christ Jesus’ “ Golden Rule,” and acted
upon by a great number of people at one time.
No group with a financial force in back of them of
less than the buying power of a minimum of "two hundred
million (200,000,000) people,” (which would aggregate a
total of over one thousand million ($1000,000,000.00)
dollars per day,) could ever exert sufficient influence to
establish their own newspapers, their own food supply
centers, their own farms and factories, and thereby make
themselves not only financially independent of the “ Money
Changers,” but also independently able to provide positions
for the world’s unemployed whom these Money Changers
have thrown out of work and are now rapidly stirring up
to revolution and hatred all over the world.
The secret plans to bring about the overthrow of
existing governments, and thereby more readily complete—
(through the medium of Communism and Dictatorships)
— the manufacture of the armaments and munitions of war
which must be produced before the “ Money Changers”
can accomplish the consummation of their final plot, can
only be thwarted by the co-operative and concerted “ world­
wide action” of not less than two hundred million
(200,000,000) intelligent and unselfishly-motivated, courag-
238 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
eous men and women. THE PEOPLE OF A N Y “ ONE”
NATION , “ IRRESPECTIVE OF ITS SIZE,” CAN N O T
COMPETE W ITH THE INFLUENCE OF THESE SUB­
VERSIVE FORCES.
ONLY BY THE INTERNATIONAL ACCEP­
TANCE OF A TYPE OF CURRENCY BASED UPON
SOME MEDIUM OTHER TH A N “ GOLD OR SIL­
VER,” CAN THE W EALTH A N D CONSEQUENT
POWER OF THE W O R LD ’S HIDDEN RULERS BE
DESTROYED. AN A TTAC K UPON A “ W O RLD ­
W IDE” FRONT— (A N D TH ROUGH THE AVENUE
OF AN “ ENTIRELY NEW TYPE OF MONEY”
W H ICH CAN ONLY BE USED BY THE PERSON
TO W H O M IT H AS BEEN ISSUED)— CONSTI­
TUTES “ THE ONE A N D ONLY M ETHOD” BY
W H ICH T O PREVENT A FINAL CIVILIZATION-
DESTROYING W A R.
With the establishment of a Universal Service Corpor­
ation which would have a strong enough membership to
issue its own money, not only could all of the world’s
trained workers— who are now unemployed— be put to
work within less than ninety days after the formation of
such a corporation, but also the absolute and complete con­
trol of the principal food supplies of the earth could likewise
be readily obtained by the Corporation through the influ­
ence of the vast combined buying power of its world-wide
owners. W ith that accomplished, a new form of money
could be immediately adopted which would soon make it
impossible for the “ Money Changers” or their “ satellites”
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 239
to buy even a loaf of bread with their "combined accumula­
tions of gold and silver,” or to provide their soldiers with
food of any description.
W ith complete and absolute control of the world’s
principal "food supplies,” and with the purchase of their
own "broadcasting stations” and "newspapers,” the
200,000,000 equal owners of The Universal Service Cor­
poration will have but little trouble in bringing about a
world-wide demand that the world's armies and navies be
disbanded, and that the battleships and armaments of every
nation be simultaneously taken to the deepest parts of the
Pacific and Atlantic oceans, and there,— (through radio re­
motely-controlled explosives),— dynamited and blown to
the bottom of the seas, where they will no longer menace
our civilization.
Previous to this simultaneous destruction of the
world’s entire armaments and munitions of warfare, and
the disbanding of its armies and navies, the Corporation’s
owners— together with the citizens of the various nations—
will have voted the establishment of a world-wide militia
with which to maintain law and order, and with which to
permanently prevent either revolutions or wars from ever
again occurring on our earth. These military police reserves
will supplement the then normal but constantly “ diminish­
ing” activities of national and local police forces.
For a few years to come, “ gold, silver and jewels” will
retain a “ vanity” and “ artistic” value, also perhaps a “ sen­
timental” and “ souvenir” value;— but all of which will con­
stantly diminish:— In fact, much more rapidly than one
may imagine, once gold and silver are disassociated from
240 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
the idea of money and are no longer used as a basis or
medium of currency. Police departments will then soon
find themselves dealing only with crimes of “ sudden tem-
per’’ or "emotion"— which constitute less than 10% of all
present-day crime— and even such causes as these will have
by that time largely disappeared. There being no need
nor incentive to commit crimes for gain— in fact nothing
to steal that one could not much more easily and safely
earn— the police will find over 90% of their present activi-
ties completely eliminated.
The criminals of the world will no longer be able to
derive any profit from stealing either gold, silver or jewels,
since all of the gold and silver on this planet won’t then
be able to buy them even a “loaf of bread,’ inasmuch as
whatever is sold or purchased in any corner of the globe,
will by that time be produced and distributed by “ Man­
kind United” through their “ W orld-W ide” Universal Ser­
vice Corporation, for the “ equal” benefit of all. W ITH
THE “ PROFIT M OTIVE” GONE, THERE WILL BE
BUT LITTLE CRIME!!!
TO PERSONS READILY BEGUILED, THE COM­
MUNIST PROPAGANDA SUGGESTS TH A T COM­
MUNISM IF ADOPTED WILL ELIMINATE CRIME.
COMMUNISM IN RUSSIA H AS THUS FAR ELIMIN­
ATED RELIGION, MORALS A N D THE SANCTITY
OF M ARITAL VOW S, BUT HAS YET TO DEMON­
STRATE A N Y APPRECIABLE CAPACITY TO
ELIMINATE EITHER BRUTALITY, SELFISHNESS
O R DISHONESTY.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 241
W IT H THE FORM ATION OF THE UNIVERSAL
SERVICE CORPORATION, THE LIVES OF MEN
WILL N O LONGER BE ENDANGERED BY GREAT
“ COMMUNISTIC POLITICAL MACHINES;” POLITI­
CAL MACHINES W H ICH N O W FOSTER THE MOST
“ BRUTAL” OF INSTINCTS A N D “ CRIMINAL
QUALITIES” OF M O RTAL TH O U G H T AND,—
W ITH THEIR PERPETUATION OF THE MONE­
TA R Y SYSTEM OF “ GOLD A N D SILVER,”— EN­
COURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT OF A N EVEN
MORE INSIDIOUS TYPE OF RACKETEER A N D
CRIMINAL TH A N THE MUCH— “BUT JUSTLY”—
CONDEMNED PRIVATE PROFIT A N D COMPETI­
TIVE CAPITALISTIC SYSTEM, W H ICH “THEY
CLAIM” TO IMPROVE UPON.
NO, THERE WILL BE N O REW ARD FOR CRIME
IN A N Y DEPARTMENT OF THE ECONOMIC SYS­
TEM OF W H ICH THE W ORLD WILL BE INFORM­
ED DURING OUR INSTITUTE’S INTERNATIONAL
30-DAY PROGRAM ,— FOR A CRIMINAL WILL NEI­
THER BE ABLE TO SELL HIS STOLEN GOODS NOR
T O BUY EVEN FOOD W ITH MONEY STOLEN
FROM ANOTHER, — A N D W H ICH HAS BEEN
ISSUED TO — “AN D CAN ONLY BE SPENT BY”—
SUCH A ONE.
IF THE CONCEPT OF H A V IN G THE W O RLD ’S
“ INTELLIGENTLY INDUSTRIOUS CITIZENS” A C ­
QUIRE A N D “ COMPLETELY O W N ” THE PRINCI­
PAL FOOD SUPPLIES A N D OTHER RESOURCES
OF OUR EARTH, SEEMS SOM EW H AT STARTLING
T O YOU R THOUGHT, W E SUGGEST T H A T YOU
242 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
BEAR IN MIND THE FACT T H A T “SOME GROUPS
OF PEOPLE” ON OUR PLANET H AVE ALW A YS
OW NED A N D CONTROLLED SUCH RESOURCES.
W hy shouldn’t the class of people who have always
done the world’s work, those who have made its great
discoveries, developed its marvelous inventions, established
its educational and religious institutions, and have always
been responsible for whatever progress the human race may
have enjoyed throughout the centuries,— take full charge
of the tools and supplies with which they have produced
the countless thousands of useful or desirable products man­
kind have enjoyed? Since the warehouse from which the
human family have drawn their raw materials for the pro­
duction of these useful requirements of life,— (namely,
the earth’s raw materials and resources),— has had its doors
closed and padlocked against them by the “ greedy swinish
qualities” of human thought possessed by a small group
of people who have appointed themselves as “ custodians of
the key” to the inexhaustible resources within this ware­
house, why shouldn’t “ those who mold and shape such
materials for human use”— and “ those for whom such pro­
ducts are prepared”— take charge of the “ key” themselves,
so that they can enter the warehouse at will and take out
what the human family may need for its welfare or hap­
piness?
THE “ KEY” TO W HICH W E REFER, IS CALLED
THE “ OW NERSHIP” OR “ CONTROL” OF PRO­
PERTY, R A W MATERIALS, ETC: FOR COUNTLESS
THOUSANDS OF YEARS THIS “ KEY” HAS AL­
W A YS BEEN HELD BY EITHER ONE OR THE
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 243
OTHER OF ONLY “ T W O ” CLASSES OR GROUPS OF
OUR W O RLD ’S INHABITANTS.
The first group has consisted of those who have had
the “ gold and silver” with which to buy the ownership or
title to such resources, after which they have usually stood
guard over them like so many “ dogs in a manger." Unable
to use or sell even the smallest fractional part of the raw
materials and resources which their century-old accumula­
tions of gold and silver could purchase, they nevertheless
have felt that since they owned the title,— (and had the
money with which to coerce the various governments into
creating laws and hiring soldiers to protect their title to such
resources),— that there was no reason why they should let
anyone else use them, unless the user first paid all of the
profit to the title holder that he might desire to exact. These
“ world rulers” have stood idly by, with no other feelings
than those of contemptuous amusement or an inflated con­
cept of their own egotistical superiority, while tens of mil­
lions of other human beings die from starvation each year,
and a majority of the remainder of the human race eke
out an existence of privation and fear-filled years, century
after century.
The second group,— which has occasionally through­
out the past few thousand years succeeded in getting pos­
session of the key— ( “ Ownership” )— to the earth’s raw
materials and resources,— has been, (not some branch of
the “ fabulously wealthy class” ) but instead, those of the
world’s most downtrodden and poverty-stricken “ lower
classes,” who have become so filled with bitterness and
hate over their needless privations, that they have risen
244 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
up in revolution and destroyed their masters. However,
with many instances to draw upon, such as the French
Revolution and— of more recent date— "Communistic
Russia,” we find their control of a country’s resources is
invariably accompanied with a rule of even "greater brutal­
ity,” “selfishness and greed,” than that expressed by their
former wealthy masters. Observe, also, present-day Italy,
Germany, and Japan.
TH ROUGHOUT COUNTLESS CENTURIES OF
GOVERNMENT,— (BY THOSE OF EITHER THE
“ VERY POOR” OR THE “ VERY RICH” DIVISIONS
OF THE H UM AN RACE),— THOSE W H O M THE
W ORLD CALLS ITS “ MIDDLE CLASSES” OF IN­
HABITANTS, H AVE CONTINUOUSLY BEEN D O ­
ING “LITERALLY ALL” OF THE W O R LD ’S CON­
STRUCTIVE THINKING AN D PRACTICALLY ALL
OF ITS W ORK. They have— century after century—
built up its educational, religious and humanitarian insti­
tutions, and brought about its priceless discoveries in the
numerous fields of research, together with the discovery
and development of literally all of its marvelous mechanical
inventions. This “ middle class,” composed— at this
time— of those to whom we have herein referred as the
"educated and religious groups,” have “invariably” been
much too busy performing tasks of constructive productive
value, to pay any very great amount of attention either to
the world’s fundamental economic problems or its political
departments. H AV IN G BEEN “ M UCH TO O BUSY” TO
TAKE THE TIME T O LEARN “ W H A T H AS BEEN
ACTUALLY GOING O N ” IN THE POLITICAL LIFE
OF THEIR RESPECTIVE COUNTRIES, THEY HAVE
BEEN CONSTANTLY “ USED” BY EACH OF THEIR
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 245
VARIOUS POLITICAL ADM INISTRATIONS— FIRST
BY ONE, THEN BY THE OTHER OF THE “ T W O ”
GROUPS ABOVE DESCRIBED. IF THEY HAVE
N O T ALW AYS BEEN “ WILLING SLAVES” A T
LEAST THEY H AVE A LW AYS BEEN “ INDUSTRI­
OUS” ONES.
ALW AYS HAS THIS “ MIDDLE CLASS” BEEN
TO O “ INDUSTRIOUSLY B U S Y ” PERFORMING
LIFE’S CONSTRUCTIVE TASKS— A N D TRYING TO
BRING HAPPINESS TO THEIR FAMILIES— TO
TAKE PART IN THE W O RLD ’S GOVERNMENTAL
ACTIVITIES.
The Sponsors of The International Institute of Univer­
sal Research and Administration believed that the “ middle
classes” of people (who have always constituted “ the back­
bone of every nation” ) had been held in bondage through­
out the centuries, primarily because of the fact that they
had been “penny wise” and “pound foolish” in devoting
their full time to performing the world’s work, and in tak­
ing so little time for ascertaining the reasons for their cease­
less bondage to the endless hard laborious tasks which
never seemed to get the majority of them beyond the point
in life from whence they had started. Through this neglect
— of their own basic best interests— the “ middle class” in­
habitants of our earth have repeatedly permitted the fruit­
age of their centuries of tireless efforts to be destroyed
through revolutions and wars planned for the profit or ad­
vancement of either one or the other of the afore-mentioned
“ wealthy” or “ poverty-stricken” groups.
Our Sponsors believe that the control— ( “ ownership” )
— of the earth’s resources,— in other words “ the key” to
246 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
its well-filled warehouses of raw materials,— should be ta­
ken over by the intelligently industrious “middle classes”
of the world’s present population. As soon as the “ weal­
thy” and also the “ poverty-stricken” groups have been
taught how to perform their share of the world’s work—
and are willing to do so— then the finished products of
such resources, should be divided “equally” through “mu­
tual” and “equal” ownership of a great Universal Service
Corporation— “ co-operatively owned and managed”— and
with every man and woman on our earth entitled to his or
her “ equal” share of its products, and proportionate con­
trol and direction of its policies and management,— subject
only to their acceptance and support of the provisions of
its charter.
OUR RESEARCH DEPARTMENT S T A N D S
READY T O PROVE T H A T T W O HUNDRED MIL­
LION (200,000,000) PEOPLE,— “ACTIN G SIMUL­
TANEOUSLY” AS A GREAT W O R LD -W ID E OR­
G A N IZA T IO N OF MEN A N D W O M E N W ILLING
T O MEET O N THE COM M ON GROUND OF THEIR
DESIRE T O ENJOY “LIFE, LIBERTY A N D THE PUR­
SUIT OF HAPPINESS,” UNHAMPERED BY POVER­
TY, W A R OR RUMORS OF W A R ,— C A N SUPPLY
PERMANENT POSITIONS FOR ALL OF THE
W O R LD ’S UNEMPLOYED— AS WELL AS FOR
THEMSELVES— A N D CAN, “W IT H IN LESS T H A N
ONE YEAR,” BRING ABO UT THE ESTABLISH­
MENT OF A UNIVERSAL ECONOMIC SYSTEM
W H IC H WILL MAKE THE RECURRENCE O N OUR
PLANET OF EITHER “W A R ” OR “POVERTY”— A N
UTTER IMPOSSIBILITY.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 247
CHAPTER XVI.
BIGOTED SKEPTICISM
A N D INEVITABLE EXTERM INATION
OR
INTELLIGENT CO-OPERATION
A N D “ECONOMIC EQUALITY”
W H IC H SHALL IT BE
?
•
W e seek only the privilege of presenting, as a gift
to the human race, the results of our years of investigations,
discoveries, and perfected inventions,— all of which have
been completed since the year 1875, and carefully tested
and their value fully proven during the years subsequent
to the year 1919 when our Research Department’s pro-
gram preparations— for its world'wide 30-day proclamation
— were started.
Inasmuch as no group of less than two hundred million
(200,000,000) clear-thinking and intelligently industrious
men and women would have either the buying power or
combined influence with which to act upon our recom­
mendations, no further information than that which this
book contains will be released to the public until after our
Research Department has been assured by its co-workers
in The International Legion of Vigilantes, that their Branch
Registration Bureaus and 4-4-8-3-4 Clubs (hereinafter de­
scribed) can guarantee the availability of such an audience.
W E SHALL GIVE N O DETAILED DESCRIP­
TION OF THE FACILITIES TH RO UG H W H ICH
OUR 30-DAY PROGRAM WILL BE IMPARTED TO
OUR AUDIENCE, OTHER T H A N TO STATE T H A T
THEY ARE “TH OROUGH LY A D EQ U ATE” FOR
THIS PURPOSE.
248 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
A “general” does not send a detailed description of his
armaments, the position of his army, nor the place nor the
time of his contemplated attack, to his enemies. Neither
shall our Research Department at this time describe the
nature of the discoveries which will enable it to simultan­
eously communicate its information— “ without cost”—
to those who previously agree to take the time to cast their
votes for or against the various measures which will be
recommended for world-wide action at the conclusion of
its 30-day program. The world’s “ Hidden Rulers” have no
means by which to ascertain the nature of such discoveries
until we introduce their use to our audience. At that time
it will be “much too late” for any subversive forces to pre­
vent the release of our program.
THE ONLY ASSISTANCE W E REQUEST IS
YO U R GOOD W ILL A N D UNPREJUDICED AND
OPEN THOUGHT, TOGETHER W ITH YO U R CO­
OPERATION IN PLACING A COPY OF THIS BOOK
IN THE HANDS OF EACH M AN OR W O M A N
W H O M YO U FEEL W OU LD BE WILLING TO DO
A N “EQUAL SHARE” OF THE W O RLD ’S W ORK,
AN D RECEIVE A N “ EQUAL SHARE” OF THE
W O R LD ’S INDESCRIBABLY ABU N D AN T RESOUR­
CES IN PREFERENCE TO THE UNCERTAINTIES OF
THE “EACH-WOLF-FOR-HIMSELF” PLAN, W HICH
THE W ORLD N O W CALLS ITS “ PRIVATE-PROFIT
SYSTEM.”
Only those to whom either a direct invitation to re-
ceive our Research Department’s 30-day program is— or
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 249
has already been— extended by The International Regis-
tration Bureau, or those whose thoughts are prepared for
said program through a thorough study and understanding
of the contents of this “ Explanatory" bulletin entitled
“ Mankind United”— (which you are now reading)—
and who have been sufficiently interested to acquire one
or more copies thereof for circulation,— will be invited to
receive or to vote upon our recommendations. In accor­
dance with this ruling, a record of each person who is of­
ficially registered as above described, or who purchases
copies of said bulletin, will be kept until such a time as
200,000,000 men and women have been so listed in The
Institute’s files. T o facilitate the accomplishment of such
a result, those who read “ Mankind United” are invited to
acquire copies thereof for circulation among their friends
and acquaintances.
Although this book is, and will continue to be, pub­
lished “ exclusively” by The International Registration
Bureau’s Pacific Coast Division of North America, it will
nevertheless, be circulated far and wide by numerous other
branches of The Institute and their associate workers,
throughout the civilized nations of our earth. Some single
volumes may be read by as many as from fifty to one hun­
dred people, and it is hoped that no volume will stop at just
one reader. HOW EVER, IT IS SUGGESTED T H A T
NO COPY OF SAID BOOK BE PLACED IN THE
HANDS OF ANYONE W H O WILL N O T AGREE TO
TAKE THE TIME TO CAREFULLY READ IT W IT H ­
IN “ THREE (3) D AYS” FROM THE DATE OF ITS
250 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
RECEIPT A N D , IMMEDIATELY AFTER D OING SO,
RETURN IT T O ITS O W N ER FOR FURTHER CIR-
CULATION.*
A selling price of $100.00 has been placed on this vol­
ume in order to assist in defraying part of the total ex­
penses of over five hundred million ($500,000,000) dollars,
which will be incurred in forming our world-wide audience
and in placing a copy of said publication in the hands of
each of the 200,000,000 men and women who will con­
stitute a part of said audience. The selling price of $100.00
is also intended to defray part of the costs of preparing
the necessary data for recording and classifying such in­
dividuals according to their respective professions and voca­
tions on The Institute’s carefully guarded official records,
and also as a means of compensating those who are help­
ing to place this book in the hands of the 200,000,000
people with whom we desire to communicate.
During our 30-day program, the members of our
audience will be supplied with “officially audited” and
“properly authenticated” records to prove that no portion
of the $100.00 selling price above mentioned, has been re­
tained either as salaries, or in the form of financial profits,
by any official of The International Institute of Universal
Research and Administration, or by any member of said
institute’s Research Department;— in fact not even so small
an amount as l/10th of 1 cent. Their services and their
lives have been— are now— and will “continuously” be de­
dicated and donated to this cause.
Due to the urgency of an early release of our 30-day
proclamation, and the vital importance of “ immediately”
*This "Pioneer” edition copy of "Mankind United’’ is not for circulation.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 211
creating permanent positions for the needlessly unemploy­
ed and idle inhabitants of our earth— (and thereby pre­
venting the world’s further preparations for war)— a con­
dition of the release of our program will be that each of
the 200,000,000 people who receive it, will agree to per­
mit The Universal Service Corporation to grant a life­
time pension of three thousand ($3,000.00) dollars per
year, to each one of the eight million (8,000,000) men
and women who are now being invited to assist us in the
formation of this necessary audience.
By communicating with one o f o u r m a n y l o c a l
branch registration bureaus you will obtain informa­
tion as to how you may qualify for one of these honorary
pensions. Your principal responsibility will consist of
placing not less than twenty-five (25) copies of “Man­
kind United” in the hands of a similar number of people
— who have not previously received a copy thereof— and
obtaining a promise from each one of them, that he will
also take the time to introduce our message to his friends
and acquaintances, by placing one or more copies of said
volume in circulation among them.*
In other words, eight million (8,000,000) men and
women,— an average of one out of every twenty-five of
those who will constitute our world-wide audience,— will
be granted, as a reward for their assistance, a lifetime pen­
sion of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per year, to
take effect within six months from the date of the for­
mation of the Universal Service Corporation, and the
acceptance of its charter by not less than eighty (80% )
* Procedure described above does not apply to this "Pioneer" edition.
252 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
per cent of the men and women whom they invite to be­
come our audience. Inasmuch as said charter will be
based upon the practical application of “ The Golden Rule”
to the world’s commercial activities, and inasmuch as its
ideals of “economic equality” will correspond essentially
with the general features described herein, there is but little
doubt of its acceptance by the above mentioned majority,
after they have spent an average of two hours per day—
for thirty (30) days— investigating our many discoveries
and irrefutable proofs.
Unless mankind possess sufficient gratitude and appre­
ciation for the efforts which will have thus been made,
by at least 8,000,000 alert, clear-thinking people, to bring
about the successful formation of the audience we require,
and unless the members of said audience are willing to
grant their consent to the lifetime pension rewards above
described,— they would not deserve even the smallest part
of the benefits which the successful establishment of the
Universal Service Corporation will make available to them
and their families, nor would they be given the privilege of
receiving such benefits.
Considering the fact that each one of the men and
women who thus assist in the formation of said audience,
will be obliged to not only donate the time for keeping
not less than twenty-five (25) copies of “ Mankind United”
in circulation, but will also be expected to spend the nec­
essary time to maintain and register an accurate record
of the names, addresses, vocations, or professions of the
various people who purchase copies as a result thereof;
A N D CONSIDERING THE ALL-IM PORTANT FACT,
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 2 5 3
T H A T W E COULD N O T POSSIBLY FORM AN
AUDIENCE AS GIGANTIC AS THE ONE W E RE­
Q U IRE— UNLESS M AN Y MILLION “INDEPEN­
DENT” — “ UNBIGOTED” — “ RIGHT-THINKING”—
“INDUSTRIOUS” MEN AN D W OM EN OFFER US
SUCH ASSISTANCE AS M A Y BE NEEDED,— SURE­
LY THOSE W H O ARE EITHER “ UNW ILLING” OR
“UNABLE” T O RENDER SUCH ESSENTIAL HELP
A T THIS TIME, WILL N O T HESITATE T O A C ­
KNOWLEDGE THE JUSTICE OF OUR RESEARCH
DEPARTM ENT’S RULING IN THIS MATTER.
Inasmuch as the allocation of honorary pensions is
entirely dependent upon the formation of The Universal
Service Corporation, we believe that these 8,000,000 pen­
sion awards, herein described, should constitute but a very
small part of the expression of gratitude mankind will owe
to those who thus make possible the consummation of out
program and the establishment of this great Service Cor­
poration; therefore, a method has been adopted which will
provide an immediate income— at this time— for the men
and women who assist The International Registration
Bureau in accomplishing this result.
* Only those who place not less than four (4) of these
books in circulation, through the Branch Registration Bu­
reau noted on the last page of the copy first loaned to them
— will be eligible to form a branch of our International
Registration Bureau, or be allowed to qualify for a posi­
tion which will enable them to receive compensation for
their services while heloine us to form our world-wide
* Procedure described above does not apply to this "Pioneer” edition.
2T4 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
audience. And only those who place not less than twenty-
five (25) of said books in circulation, and supply The
International Registration Bureau with an authentic record
of the names, addresses, vocations or professions of the
people who purchase additional copies as a result thereof,
will be eligible for the lifetime pensions to which we have
previously made reference.*
The Branch Registration Bureau, noted on the last
page of this volume, will supply you with further infor­
mation pertaining to the above matters if you will follow
the instructions contained thereon when you have finished
reading the following chapters.*
Inasmuch as there are no other means of preventing
the further overturning of existing democracies, or prevent­
ing another great world-wide civilization-destroying war—
than by mankind immediately taking steps to end univer­
sal unemployment and poverty; and inasmuch as those who
control the world’s currency— (and thereby its govern­
ments, through their vast accumulations of gold and silver)
— have only one object in view; namely, “the extermination
of literally all educated and religious people,”— and since
they have the money, and therefore the influence, with
which to force the production of the necessary armaments
and munitions of war for the accomplishment of this result,
— unless the world’s “sane” and “right-thinking” inhabi­
tants simultaneously organize in every major nation, and
“immediately” establish their own business facilities and
“a new type of money” to free them from their age-old
bondage to the “war lords” and “money changers” of the
* Procedure described above does not apply to this "Pioneer” edition.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 255
world, and unless they thereby completely destroy the value
of the century-old accumulations of gold and silver be­
longing to these hidden world rulers, “it will soon be too
late to even talk about doing so.” W ITH THE W O RLD ­
W IDE LOSS OF FREE SPEECH A N D THE PRIVI­
LEGES OF ASSEMBLY RAPIDLY BEING BROUGHT
TO PASS BY THESE HIDDEN RULERS,— THROUGH
THEIR CAREFULLY PLANNED AVENUES OF
WIDESPREAD UNEMPLOYMENT, COMMUNISM
AN D FASCISM,— THE EARTH’S INHABITANTS
WILL SOON N O LONGER BE ALLOW ED TO “ EVEN
VOICE” THEIR DESIRE FOR PEACE, FINANCIAL
SECURITY OR FREEDOM.
Our Research Department therefore feels justified in
having adopted a plan for the promulgation of “ Mankind
United,” which will compensate the men and women who
co-operate with its International Registration Bureau in the
formation of its requisite world-wide audience;— a plan
which will not only provide an “immediate income” for
such co-workers, but will also supply an opportunity for
earning the lifetime pension described herein.
To those who may be inclined to think that we should
establish a lower selling price for these books,— (and ab­
sorb the difference in a price substantially below $100.00, by
paying less compensation to the men and women who
help us place them,)— we request t h e privilege of
bringing to their attention the fact that not only must
these co-workers give generously of their time in exchange
for the income which they will receive, but they must also
256 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
possess the requisite “ moral fibre,” “ courage,” and “ per'
severance,” to withstand the attacks of bigotry and sarcasm,
and the malicious criticism of unthinking people.— No
amount of money can compensate them for these exper­
iences.
There will be many who will do no more than to
glance hurriedly through the pages of “Mankind United,”
and thereafter feel qualified to pass a “ profound judg­
ment” of condemnation, upon the merits of a program
which even the world's most “brilliant” economists will
be wholly unable to “ accurately” judge, until after they
have seen the moving pictures and numerous authenticat­
ed reports and proofs which will be given to the world
during our Research Department’s 30-day program.
It will take real moral courage to circulate this book
and to ignore the skepticism of the type of people who will
first have to “ actually hear” the deafening roar of hundreds
of bomb-laden planes, and wake up in the dead of night
with poisonous gases streaming into their rooms and— (like
“ white-hot coals” ) — eating out their lungs and tearing the
flesh from their bones,— before they will believe that the
world’s governmental and financial structures are complete­
ly under the control of fabulously wealthy “ moral idiots;”
— or before they will believe that there are men who every
second, of every hour, of every day and of every night,
are forcing the production of vast quantities of such gases
—-and other “ death dealing” elements— together with the
necessary facilities for releasing them in the populated cen­
ters of the world;— men who have such world-wide in­
fluence, that they are actually paying for such things with
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 257
the tax money collected from the very people whom they
intend to slaughter!!
It is likewise a fact, that until the W ar Lords’ “ radio-
controlled equipment” , now secretly under construction in
many parts of the world— (and which was partly assembled
and delivered into the hands of their agents during October
and November of 1937)— is installed and actually put
into operation in the populated centers of the world and—
(throughout an area of some hundreds of square miles sur­
rounding the well hidden location of each one of them)—
the eyes of millions of people are electrically vibrated from
their sockets— A N D UNTIL EVERY DROP OF W A ­
TER, AN D EVERY POUND OF FOOD, IN EVERY
THICKLY POPULATED CENTER OF THE CIVI­
LIZED W ORLD HAS BEEN POISONED BY ORDER
OF THESE “ MONEY CHANGERS” DURING THEIR
W A R OF EXTERMINATION, W E ARE FULLY
A W AR E OF THE FACT T H A T THERE WILL CON­
TINUE TO BE MILLIONS OF “ OSTRICH-LIKE” HU­
M AN BEINGS W H O WILL SCOFF— AS THE BOYS
BENEATH THE SOD IN THE FIELDS OF FRANCE
ONCE SCOFFED— A T THE IDEA T H A T THERE
COULD EVER A G A IN BE A GREAT W ORLD W A R
DURING A CIVILIZATION “AS FAR ADVAN CED ”
AS OURS.
THE NEXT W A R WILL N O T BE FOUGHT ON
BATTLEFIELDS IN SOME FOREIGN LAND. IT IS
T O BE A W A R OF “ EXTERM INATION” — N OT
FOUGHT BY COURAGEOUS MEN ALONE BUT
258 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
INSTEAD CONDUCTED BY CO W ARD S OF THE
LOWEST TYPE— FROM “SAFE CONCEALMENTS”
— AG AIN ST MEN, W OM EN A N D CHILDREN OF
THE EDUCATED CLASSES IN ALL POPULOUS
CENTERS OF ALL CIVILIZED NATIONS.
YES, THERE WILL BE MEN AN D W OMEN
W H O ARE N O T A W A R E “ OF THE TRU TH ” OF
THE STATEMENT— IN THE BOOK OF PROVERBS
— W H ICH W ARN S US T H A T “ WHERE THERE IS
NO VISION, THE PEOPLE PERISH,”— A N D BE­
CAUSE OF THE “ BLINDNESS” OF SUCH PEOPLE,
THEY W ILL N O T REALIZE T H A T THE FACULTY
OF “ TH O U G H T” H AS BEEN GIVEN TO US N OT
MERELY T H A T W E MIGHT H AVE ENOUGH IN
TELLIGENCE W ITH W HICH “ T O GET THE FOOD
— TO GET THE STRENGTH — T O GET MORE
FOOD,”— BUT ALSO T H A T W E MIGHT DEVELOP
THE W ISDOM NEEDED FOR OUR “SELF-PRESER­
V A T IO N ” A N D “ PROGRESS,” TH ROUGH THE
“ USE”— AS WELL AS THE “ DISCUSSION”— OF
M IND’S LIMITLESS IDEAS OF VALUE.
OUR RESEARCH DEPARTMENT THEREFORE
FEELS T H A T BECAUSE OF SUCH QUALITIES OF
APATH Y— AN D THE NUMEROUS FALSE CON­
CEPTS OF SECURITY UNDER W H ICH M A N Y OF
THE EARTH’S INHABITANTS ARE LABORING—
T H A T IT IS FULLY JUSTIFIED IN CHARGING A
PRICE FOR THIS BOOK W H ICH WILL ENABLE IT,
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 259
TH ROUGH THE AVENUE OF ITS INTERNA­
TIONAL REGISTRATION BUREAU, TO GEN­
EROUSLY COMPENSATE ALL MEN AN D W OM EN
W H O H AVE SUFFICIENT “ INDEPENDENCE OF
TH O U G H T”— A N D THE CONSEQUENT COURAGE
— W IT H W H ICH TO HELP COM BAT N O T ONLY
THESE ENEMIES TO M A N ’S WELFARE A N D PRO­
GRESS BUT ALSO THE WELL HIDDEN FORCES
W H ICH HAVE, TH ROUGH THE AVENUES OF
“ MASS PSYCHOLOGY” A N D CEASELESS “ PROPA­
G A N D A ,” PERPETUATED THEIR HOLD UPON
THE H UM AN RACE.
* W E INVITE THE MEN A N D W OM EN W H O
READ “ M ANKIND UNITED,” T O HELP US CIRCU­
LATE IT A M O N G THEIR M A N Y FRIENDS AN D
ACQUAINTANCES, BY GENEROUSLY COMPLY­
ING W ITH THE RECOMMENDATIONS CON TAIN ­
ED ON THE LAST PAGE HEREOF. W E EXTEND
THIS IN V ITA TIO N TO ALL W H O BELIEVE TH A T
THE W ORLD H AS ENOUGH EXECUTIVES, TRAIN ­
ED WORKERS, MECHANICAL INVENTIONS, UN­
DEVELOPED LANDS, A N D THE RESOURCES
W ITH W H ICH TO PERMANENTLY OVERCOME
BOTH POVERTY AN D W A R ;— AN D ENOUGH
EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES T O QUICKLY HEAL
M ANKIND’S ILLITERACY, TOGETHER W ITH
THEIR RESULTANT SOUL-DESTROYING SUPER­
STITIONS. ALL MEN A N D W OM EN W H O POS­
SESS “ INDEPENDENCE OF TH O U G H T” A N D A
* Procedure described above does not apply to this "Pioneer1’ edition.
260 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
CLEAR REALIZATION OF THE LIMITLESS POTEN­
TIALITIES OF “ UNSELFISHLY M O TIVATED UNIT­
ED W ORLD-W IDE ACTIO N ,” BY THE EARTH’S IN­
TELLIGENTLY INDUSTRIOUS INHABITANTS, ARE
INCLUDED IN THIS IN VITATION.
ALTHOUGH— IF YO U SO DESIRE— BY CO­
OPERATING W IT H US, YOUR IMMEDIATE AS
WELL AS YOU R FUTURE FINANCIAL REW ARDS
WILL BE GRATIFYINGLY SUBSTANTIAL, NEVER­
THELESS, YOU R GREATEST AN D MOST SATISFY­
ING BLESSING WILL CONSIST OF THE G RATI­
TUDE OF COUNTLESS GENERATIONS OF H UM AN
BEINGS, W H O WILL NEVER CEASE T O BLESS
YOUR COURAGEOUS GENEROSITY A N D VISION.
Only those who are sufficiently interested in the pro­
gram of The International Institute of Universal Research
and Administration, to purchase at least one copy of this
book— either for further study or for purposes of circula­
tion in accordance with the instructions contained on the
last page hereof— (or who have otherwise qualified as a
member of our world-wide audience of 200,000,000 peo­
ple)— will be notified of the date of our Research Depart­
ment’s 30-day program, or be permitted to vote upon its re­
commendations— and the charter of The Universal Service
Corporation— at the conclusion of said program. For only
those who have not only read— but who have also “ care­
fully studied” the contents of this “ Explanatory” bulletin,
or our other officially released publications, will have had
their thoughts adequately prepared to receive the thirty
days of proclamations and recommendations which will at
that time be put into the hands of our audience.*
* Procedure described above does not apply to this ’'Pioneer1
' edition.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 261
Prior to the date that the 30-day program is officially
announced, none of our branch Registration Bureaus— or
their respective secretaries— will be allowed to give out any
additional information relative to the discoveries or the
plans of our Research Department, nor are they authorized
to make any statements other than those either contained
herein, or printed and copyrighted by The International
Registration Bureau. However, said Branch Registration
Bureaus, and their respective secretaries, are supplied with
copies of all such necessary printed data, as well as instruc­
tions to be given to those who desire to co-operate with us
in the formation of our world-wide audience.
In order to protect the time and efforts of the men
and women— (whose names appear on the numerous
copies of this book now being placed in circulation)— who
have been appointed as the secretaries of our various branch
Registration Bureaus, and to guard them against the de­
mands of people who may be motivated primarily by “ curi­
osity,” said secretaries are specifically prohibited from giv­
ing out any information— other than that which this vol­
ume contains— (relative either to our general program or
the subject of financial remuneration)— to anyone other
than those who have first evidenced the sincerity of their
interest in our purposes and plans, by having purchased
at least one copy of “Mankind United” as a proof of their
desire to help us promulgate our message.
262 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 263
CHAPTER XVII.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D
-----& ------
T H E
I N T E R N A T I O N A L
4 - 4 - 8 - 3 - 4
C L U B
The name “ Mankind United,” selected as the title for
this “ Explanatory” bulletin, is also the name of the world-
wide organization whose members will comprise the inter­
national audience of 200,000,000 men and women, now be­
ing formed for the Research Department of The Inter­
national Institute of Universal Research and Administra­
tion, by The International Registration Bureau.
Each purchaser of a copy of this volume, thereby
simultaneously becomes an honorary member of “Mankind
United,” and as such, will be duly notified of the date of
our Research Department’s 30-day program. When said
program date is officially announced, full instructions re­
lative to the steps which you will be invited to take, in
264 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
order to receive the proclamations and reports of the dis­
coveries of The Institute’s Research Department, and full
instructions together with the necessary ballots containing
one hundred (100) separate measures upon which you will
be invited to vote at the conclusion of said free 30-day
program— will be duly sent to you.
YOUR MEMBERSHIP IN “ M ANKIND UNITED”
IS ENTIRELY AN H O N O RARY ONE, AND THERE
ARE NEITHER INITIATION FEES, DUES, NOR
OBLIGATIONS OF A N Y KIND W HATSOEVER A T ­
TACHED THERETO.
Only the men and women who order one or more
copies of this book, and who thereby become members of
the group which will comprise our world-wide audience
of 200,000,000 people (known as “ Mankind United” ) —
or those to whom a direct invitation is extended by The
International Registration Bureau will be allowed to re­
ceive our 30-day program, or be permitted to vote upon
the various measures pertaining to the formation of The
Universal Service Corporation described herein.
The world’s intelligent clear-thinking people are fully
aware of the fact that there is no justifiable reason for
further “poverty or wars,” and that there are more than
enough agricultural and industrial leaders, efficient execu­
tives, highly trained and willing workers; more than enough
machinery and mechanical inventions— (together with
millions upon millions of years of “ unused resources” )—
ready to be co-ordinated for the limitless use of all man­
kind,— and it is well known that all of these advantages are
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 265
available just as soon as a sufficient number of “independ­
ent,” “ clear-thinking,” “courageous” men and women, “ si­
multaneously demand” that such resources immediately be
used for the equal benefit of all. YOUR PURCHASE OF
A NUMBER OF COPIES OF THIS BOOK— FOR CIR­
CULATION AM O N G YO U R M AN Y FRIENDS AN D
ACQUAINTANCES— W ILL CONSTITUTE A N EX­
PRESSION OF “YO U R” RECOGNITION OF THIS
F A C T *
Those who co-operate with us towards the fulfillment
of this program, will have the satisfaction of having helped
to bring to pass a result more vital, more important, and
more lasting than the economic accomplishments of any
individual or group of individuals— heretofore known—
throughout all of human history. Although it may seem to
be but a “ very little thing” that you are doing, in aiding
this volume to circulate through the hands of the world’s
clear-thinking people, nevertheless the cumulative effect
of many millions of men and women granting such co­
operation, will inevitably result in the complete fulfillment
of each and every one of the promises of freedom described
herein.*
Men and women who may feel that they have had but
little opportunity to render any service which might stand
as “ a lasting monument” to their memories, or be of per­
manent value to the human race,— or men and women who
may feel that they are so far along in years that they have
now very nearly “ lived their lives” — and therefore that
there is but little they could do to aid such an ambitious
program as ours—-should bear in mind the fact that no
* Procedure described above does not apply to this "Pioneer” edition.
266 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
human being is “ actually” of less importance than another.
They should remember that if each “ little drop of water”
were to depreciate its importance and “ linger in the sky”
—instead of dropping upon our earth— all of human life
would soon perish from our planet;— and so likewise (only
to an “ infinitely” greater extent) is the value of each of
the earth’s inhabitants in his or her relative importance to
the progress and welfare of the human race.
No adult is either “ too young” or “ too old,” to do his
full share of making it possible for us to develop an aud­
ience large enough to warrant the release of our research
department’s discoveries, proclamations and recommenda­
tions.
When 200,000,000 people have each read and purchas­
ed a copy of this book, or have in some other acceptable
manner proven their qualifications,— (as an indication to our
research department of not only the interest but also the pre­
paredness of public thought for the discoveries and informa­
tion which they propose at that time to release to the human
race,)— then, “ and only then,” can the promises described
herein be brought to fulfillment by The International In­
stitute of Universal Research and Administration; for only
then will there be sufficient “ unity of purpose”— evidenced
by the world’s right-thinking men and women— to war­
rant the release of our research department’s indescribably
important discoveries and recommendations.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 267
T H E
I N T E R N A T I O N A L
4 - 4 - 8 - 3 - 4
C L U B
When you have purchased five (5) or more copies of
this book— and have placed four of them in circulation
through the B r a n c h Registration Bureau which first
brought our program to your attention, and have estab­
lished your own bureau— you will be invited to form a
branch of our International 4-4-8-3-4 Club. To those who
are familiar with our program, this name will be an instant
reminder of the goal towards which we are striving, and
the benefits— which are partly described herein— relative
to the immediate availability of a universal labor schedule
of only (4) hours per day, (4) days per week, (8) months
each year, with a (3) day per week and (4) months per
year vacation period,— to which the numerals, “ 4-4-8-3-4,”
appearing in the Club’s name, refer.
It will be necessary for us to form not less than eight
million (8,000,000) of these Clubs, as avenues of direct con­
tact with those who read and become interested in pro­
mulgating the message “Mankind United” contains. These
“ 4-4-8-3-4 Clubs,” will also provide an opportunity for men
and women of similar interests, desires, and aspirations, to
meet on the common ground of their “ mutual desire” to
aid our program, and to bring about the early formation
of our requisite world-wide audience.
W hen you form a branch of The International
4-4-8-3-4 Club, your membership will consist of the men
* The procedure described in this chapter does not apply to this "Pioneer"
edition.
268 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
and women who not only have read one of the copies of
“Mankind United” which you may have purchased and
personally put into circulation, but who also have purchased
copies of said book from you, in order that they might
thereby assist in the further promulgation of our message.
No one will be eligible for membership in your branch of
this Club, until he has complied with this qualification by
purchasing at least one copy of said “ Explanatory” bulletin
through you, and has thoroughly studied the contents
thereof.
ALTHOUGH YO U WILL N O T BE PERMITTED
TO CHARGE EITHER INITIATION FEES OR DUES,
NEVERTHELESS THE FORM ATION OF ONE OF
THESE CLUBS WILL N O T ONLY PROVIDE A N OP­
PORTUNITY FOR INTERESTING STUDY AN D
DISCUSSIONS RELATIVE T O OUR PROGRAM,
BUT IT WILL ALSO PROVIDE SUITABLE FINAN­
CIAL REMUNERATION IN EXCHANGE FOR YOUR
EFFORTS, IF YOU SO DESIRE.
FULL INFORM ATION PERTAINING TO THE
FORM ATION OF A BRANCH OF OUR INTERNA­
TIONAL 4-4-8-3-4 CLUB WILL BE FORW ARDED TO
YOU W IT H YOUR FIRST PURCHASE OF A COPY
OF “ MANKIND UNITED.”
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 169
CHAPTER XVIII.
N O T A M A D D R E A M
Burglars do not enter the homes of people who are
sitting at their doors and windows with loaded shotguns!!!
It is quite possible that the widespread circulation of the
warnings contained in this book, will cause many of the
world’s “ wolves”— who are well camouflaged in their cos­
tumes of “ Sheep’s Clothing”— to comb some of the tangles
out of their more or less worn-out coverings, and to even
“ appear” to take steps through the League of Nations—
and other similar avenues— to not only outlaw war, but also
to bring about the establishment of facilities which may
“ seem” capable of ending the depression;— they may even
start placing large numbers of the unemployed back into
“ apparently” permanent positions. Our widespread pub­
lic warnings may also cause them to somewhat alter their
preparations for the next world war. However, un­
less a medium of currency other than “ Gold or Silver” (as
described herein) is universally adopted— and a lifetime
“ written guarantee” of not less than three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00) per year is placed in the hands of every
man and woman in every civilized nation on this earth—
“any other steps” which our political leaders may offer
270 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
to take, and any promises that they may make, will not de­
ceive those who have carefully studied and who fully un­
derstand the contents of this volume,— any more than such
moves have— throughout the past few years— deceived the
carefully-trained and well-informed investigators of our
Research Bureau.
The world’s subversive forces— (and many honest
leaders and other well-intentioned people who are thorough­
ly mesmerized by their influence)— will no doubt make nu­
merous “ libelous” attacks on the character and motives of
Our Sponsors, and will accuse them of fostering everything
from a “ money-making scheme," up to and including a
plan for the overthrow of the world’s major governments.
W e cannot expect the co-operation of either “ biased”
or “ bigoted” mentalities, but it is with the belief that there
are two hundred million (200,000,000) right-thinking and
intelligent men and women, (who will base their opinion of
our movement upon the “ ideals” we have herein described,
and will withhold any judgment as to the “ practicability"
of our program, until they have received— during a con­
tinuous 30-day period— sufficient information with which
to form a just opinion,)— that we have published “ Man­
kind United.”
THE TRU TH OF THE STATEM ENT TH A T
“ WHERE THERE IS N O VISION THE PEOPLE PER­
ISH,” HAS TH ROU GH O UT TENS OF THOUSANDS
OF YEARS BEEN FULLY VERIFIED BY THE FACT
T H A T EVERY CIVILIZATION TH RO U G H O U T ALL
OF HUM AN HISTORY HAS BEEN “SELF-DESTROY­
ED;” DESTROYED BY QUALITIES OF JEALOUSY,
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 271
ENVY, PRIDE, GREED, SELFISHNESS, BIGOTRY
AND SELF-GLORIFICATION. THE W O RLD ’S IN­
HABITANTS DID NOT, DURING THOSE PERIODS.
HAVE SUFFICIENT “ VISION” T O ESTABLISH AN
ECONOMIC SYSTEM BASED UPON THE “SPIRIT”
AS WELL AS THE “LETTER” OF “ THE GOLDEN
RULE,” YET IT HAS BEEN PROVEN— CENTURY
AFTER CENTURY— T H A T ONLY BY ADOPTING
AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM W H ICH W ILL PROVIDE
NEITHER FINANCIAL REW ARD N OR A N Y OTHER
FORM OF GAIN FOR THOSE TEMPTED OR M O TI­
VATED BY “SELFISH” OR “ CRUEL” CHARACTER­
ISTICS OF THOUGHT, CAN M ANKIND EVER
EVEN “HOPE” TO FIND PEACE, CONTENTMENT
OR HAPPINESS.
It will be stated that the result which The Interna-
tional Institute of Universal Research and Administration
has promised to bring to pass is but a “ mad dream.” In
answer to such forms of attack, we might remind our read­
ers that it does not imply any lack of sound substantial
value in connection with The Institute’s recommendations,
merely because its program is an ambitious one, nor be­
cause of the fact that it is somewhat of an innovation com­
pared to the generally accepted “ poverty-stricken” limita­
tions of generations of “ false education.” However, as
has invariably been the case throughout countless centuries,
even the most “ advanced thinkers” of each age through
which mankind have traveled, have strenuously resisted
every recommendation of progress which did not coincide
272 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
with the erroneous concepts of life which “ false educa­
tion” and “ superstition" have— throughout all past cen­
turies— so strongly embedded into the consciousness of
man.
Those who find it profitable to prey upon mankind’s
superstitions, ignorance and poverty, have with an envia­
ble (?) degree of success, perpetuated every form of “ fear”
and “ limitation” which held promise of keeping the human
race in mental darkness. Yet, such people know that we
live in the midst of “limitless opportunities" for intelligent
progress and accomplishment, and that there is nothing cap­
able of delaying mankind's arrival in the promised land of
“ peace and plenty,” other than an educated sense of self­
depreciation, fear and limitation;— these qualities of false
thinking, the world’s Hidden Rulers have made it their
business to ceaselessly propagate and perpetuate.
The characteristics of thought which hinder mankind’s
progress, are most fittingly exemplified in a statement des­
cribed by a prominent lecturer* of a few years ago, which
was issued through the School Board of Lancaster, Ohio,
in the year 1828, through a letter addressed to a debating
society of young men; it stated:—
“You are welcome to the use of the school house
to debate all proper questions in, but such things
as railroads and telegraphs are ‘impossible’ and
rank infidelity. ‘There is nothing in the Bible or
the word of God about them.’ If God had de­
sired that his intelligent creatures should travel at
* EDWARD A. KIMBALL.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 173
the frightful speed of fifteen miles an hour by
steam, He would have clearly foretold such things
through His Holy Prophets. It is a device of Sa­
tan to lead immortal souls down to hell.”
THIS IS ALSO A REMINDER OF THE DE­
CLARATION OF LOMBROSO, T H A T :— “M AN IS BY
NATURE THE ‘ENEMY’ OF IN N O VATIO N .”
The lecturer who used the foregoing illustration then
continued stating:—
“ If this letter, instead of saying in general terms
that the railway and telegraph were ‘a device of
Satan,’ had followed the usual custom by specifi­
cally uttering a libelous attack on the character
and motives of Morse and Stephenson; if it had
violated every rule of justice, honor and loving
kindness, for the purpose of misrepresenting the
intent and the declarations of these discoverers,
and had done it in order to discredit them be­
fore the world, it would have fittingly shown
forth the evercontinuing disposition of the hu­
man mind to resist its own progress, and to thrust
martyrdom on every one who is first to discern
that which is possible of accomplishment.”
“ What argument or protest would have prevail­
ed with the dense traditional ignorance which con­
structed that letter? None!! Nothing but ‘dem­
onstration’ w i t h its persistent assertiveness.
Nothing but the dynamics of ‘truth,’ will suffice
to overwhelm and drive such mental perversity
into silence and oblivion.”
274 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
“It is fortunate for mankind, that the discoverers
and reformers throughout the ages have had the
moral courage and mental poise which enabled
them to endure the storms of antagonism and per­
secution, while they persisted in impressing the
facts of their discoveries on the world ‘in spite of
itself.’ It is fortunate that these discoverers have
known enough to expect that the rude hand of
ignorance would strive to thrust back every scien­
tific advance or promise of advance. It is well
that they knew that it would be folly to stem the
tide of unfriendly bias or to keep pace— by means
of ‘dispute and recrimination’— with a bewilder­
ing flood of utterances which were unjust or be­
nighted. It is well that the great benefactors of
the world have known that there is but ‘one
thing’ that will be sufficient to answer all slander
and to put to rout all antagonism.— ‘T H A T ONE
THING IS PROOF’!! The one who has discov­
ered a scientific verity and knows that it is de­
monstrable, may wait in serene calm until demon­
stration justifies him and his cause. If it were not
thus, most of them would falter and go down in
heart-broken despair, and humanity would either
stagnate or revert to barbarism.”
“ All the discoveries and inventions which by
means of demonstration and proof have forced
themselves on a resisting world, must surely serve
to show how largely the world is in need. If
humanity had rightly heeded these things and the
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 27?
lessons they imply, it would realize that it is barely
on the threshold of knowledge, and must progress
in every direction for many years yet to come, be­
fore it will be justified in contemplating its handi­
work with the thought that further progress is
neither needed nor possible. ITS MONOTONE
OF COMPLAINT A N D LAM ENTATION;
ITS TEARS, POVERTY, AN D DISASTER,
CONSTITUTE BOTH ‘CONFESSION’ AN D
‘TESTIMONY’ T H A T MANKIND IS IN
‘DIRE TROUBLE’ A N D IN SUPREME NEED
OF EARLY DELIVERANCE.”
FOR TENS OF THOUSANDS OF YEARS, THE
H UM AN RACE HAS FOUGHT TH ROUGH RELIG­
IOUS, RACIAL A N D CLASS ANTAGONISM S, TO
AD VAN CE ITSELF A N D T O SOLVE ITS PROBLEMS
THROUGH THE APPLICATION OF ITS SO-CALLED
PRINCIPLE OR LA W OF “THE SU RVIVAL OF
THE FITTEST.” YET, NEVER, TH ROU GHOUT
THESE THOUSANDS OF YEARS, H AVE W A Y S
AN D MEANS BEEN DISCOVERED BY W HICH
IGNORANCE, SUPERSTITION, POVERTY AN D
W ARS MIGHT BE MADE T O CEASE OCCURRING
ON THIS PLANET OF OURS. IT HAS TRIED M AN Y
W A YS IN THE DIRECTION OF THIS RULE OF THE
SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST; W A Y S W HICH
H AVE ONE A N D ALL BEEN MISERABLE FAIL­
URES. “ IF THERE BE A W A Y W H ICH IS EQUAL
TO THE NEED, IT MUST SURELY BE SOM EW H AT
OR W HOLLY DIFFERENT FROM THE W A YS TH A T
H AVE FAILED.”
276 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
INASMUCH AS ALL OF H UM AN SUPERSTI­
TION, POVERTY A N D W A R ARE THE EFFECT OF
SOME CAUSE, THE ONLY W A Y T O ELIMINATE
OR TO GET OUT OF THESE TROUBLES, “ IS TO
UPROOT A N D EXTERMINATE THE CAUSE.” IS
THERE A N Y PROMISE OR PROSPECT TH A T
THIS CAN BE DONE?
The International Institute of Universal Research and
Administration, after sixty years of ceaseless investigation,
claims that there is a solution and asks only that the sub­
stantial, intelligent, clear-thinking people of the world’s
civilized nations, expend the slight amount of time needed
to establish the avenues through which the discoveries of
their Research Department may be made available to two
hundred million (200,000,000) such people in all parts of
our world, in order that these needless causes of human
suffering may be attacked simultaneously on a world-wide
front. They further state to us— “ and stand ready to prove
their claims” — that these causes are too widespread and
deeply rooted to be exterminated by the efforts of any
smaller group, or in an area other than “ the entire surface”
of our planet in one “ over-powering” attack.
“ SUPERSTITION,” “ POVERTY” AN D “ W A R ,”
BESET THE PEOPLES OF OUR ENTIRE W ORLD,
A N D THESE RELENTLESS ENEMIES T O M A N ­
KIND’S FREEDOM— PEACE A N D PROGRESS— CAN
ONLY BE DESTROYED BY THE “ CONCERTED EF­
FORT” OF “ ALL” OF THE W O RLD ’S ENLIGHT­
ENED THINKERS.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 2 7 7
Whenever we of the human race have tired of our
bondage to these “ age-old” foes, we need only rise up as a
body and with “ one voice”— “ demand our freedom”— in
order to gain it. Have we ever had greater opportunities
for doing this? more rapid means of transportation or in­
ter-communication, or better avenues of education, than
are now available to us?
Our Research Department asks only your invitation
to prove that the unemployed of the world can immediately
be given profitable and desirable positions,— and through
the many avenues of already developed mechanical inven­
tions,— that short working hours and many months of vaca­
tions each year “for all” are available— not a thousand years
hence— but within less than “ one year” after the world
accepts its program.
OUR PLANS D O N O T CONFLICT W ITH A N Y
“ TRULY” RELIGIOUS OR H U M A N I T A R I A N
GROUP, NOR COULD A N Y “ UNSELFISH” M AN OR
W O M A N ON THIS EARTH OBJECT T O OUR REC­
OMMENDATIONS.
Eight million (8,000,000) combination Branch Regi­
stration Bureaus and 4-4-8'3-4 Clubs,— each composed of
a membership of not less than twenty-five (25) sincere,
intelligent, clear-thinking people, — must be formed
throughout the nations of the earth during the following
few months, in order that The Institute’s program can be
readily imparted to those who are capable of acting upon
its recommendations, and who are willing to have wars,
278 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
ignorance and poverty, forever removed from human ex­
perience, and are “ truly” desirous of helpm* to accomplish
such a result.
These Clubs will literally constitute a group of
8,000,000 “ separate research bureaus,' whose secretaries and
members will have evidenced their willingness to under­
take a sincere and careful study of the fundamental causes
of poverty and war and to investigate our Research De­
partment’s claims that the world’s executives, its trained
workers, its labor-saving mechanical inventions and its limit­
less abundance of raw materials, are “ more than sufficient”
for the immediate eradication of each and every one of
the humanly perpetuated and “ utterly needless causes" of
world-wide illiteracy, poverty and war.
Our plans constitute “ an immediately practical solu­
tion” to the world’s grievous problems of unemployment,
poverty, and a rapidly approaching war of self-annihilation;
— no worthier invitation to action has ever been offered
to intelligent men and women.
It has been rightly stated, that “ nothing bigger can
come to a human being than to love a great cause more
than life itself, and to have the privilege throughout life of
working for that cause.” Although we ask you to spend
but a small part of your life in helping us to establish our
program,— your satisfaction and your reward will be per­
manent—-and constantly increasing.
W e invite you to participate in the most ambitious and
constructive adventure ever undertaken by the people of
any age. W e invite you to journey with us into a land of
m a n k i n d u n i t e d 279
“ universal unselfishness and generosity;”— a land, the in­
habitants of which give “ freely” of their individual capa­
bilities and talents for the welfare and happiness o f all; and
all combine their strength and their talents as a guarantee
to one another of security, equal opportunity, freedom,
leisure and happiness;— and extend this guarantee to even
the least talented of their brethren.
W E INVITE YO U TO HELP US “UNITE M A N ­
KIND” UPON THE PLATFORM OF CHRIST JESUS’
GOLDEN RULE OF “BROTHERLY LOVE” AN D
“IM PARTIAL ECONOMIC EQUALITY.”
H AVE YO U THE GENEROSITY— THE W IS­
DOM — A N D THE COURAGE T O ACCEPT THIS
INVITATION???
280 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 281
CHAPTER XIX.
CHRISTIANS OF THE W O R L D !
H AVE YO U THE COURAGE
TO
ACCEPT OUR IN VITATIO N
?
•
This book has been published and copyrighted in the
United States of America,— not because there is no other
country which grants its people the privilege of free speech
or assembly, nor because of the fact that the world’s sub­
versive influences are any less aggressive -here than in any
other liberty-loving nation, nor because the people of
America are any more “ enlightened” or any less “ bigoted”
than the citizens of any other country,— but solely because
of the fact that, throughout recent generations, millions of
people from all of the world’s great nations have settled
in America. Therefore, our message can be quickly placed
in the hands of millions of men and women who not only
understand the world’s various major languages, but also
understand the customs of its many classes of inhabitants,
and consequently through them it will quickly spread to
all parts of the civilized world.
Here in America, the Sponsors of The International In­
stitute of Universal Research and Administration have
282 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
found millions of right-thinking, clean-living, high-prin­
cipled men and women of each of the great nations;— men
and women whom they are now inviting to participate in
the establishment of an economic system based upon
“ Practical Idealism,” instead of the “Jungle Law” of self­
ishness and “ brute force.”
CHRIST JESUS TAU G H T T H A T “THE KING­
DOM OF HEAVEN”— THE PROMISED LAND— W A S
“HERE A T H AN D ,” A N D READY TO BE FULLY
ENJOYED A N Y TIME T H A T MEN WERE WILLING
TO LIVE IN OBEDIENCE TO HIS TEACHINGS AND
PRECEPTS. “ CHRISTIANS OF THE W O RLD !”— ARE
YOU READY T O START “ LIVING” AS WELL AS
“ PREACHING” THOSE PRECEPTS? ARE YOU
W ILLING “ T O LIVE AN D TO LET LIVE” A N D N O T
JUST TALK ABOUT IT???
The Universal Service Corporation— the formation of
which will be brought to pass during our Research Depart­
ment’s 30-day program— will constitute a sturdy beginning
towards the building of a great and beautiful world-wide
estate and universal home for all mankind, with spacious
living quarters, delightful gardens, security, opportunity,
leisure, smiles, laughter and limitless happiness, to be
equally shared and enjoyed in a great and true brotherhood
of man: A brotherhood not in name alone, nor as an in­
sidious and subtly planned ensnaring counterfeit— such as
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 283
is now being offered to the world under the names of
“ Communism” and “Dictatorships”— but instead, the
highest human concept of the divine idea of “ the brother­
hood of man,” a brotherhood built upon the solid founda­
tion of Christ Jesus’ “ Golden Rule;” — “ ABSOLUTE
ECONOMIC EQUALITY” IN “ FACT” AS WELL AS
IN “THEORY.”
Again we remind you, that it has been most truly stat­
ed:— “ There is a principle which is a bar against all in­
formation, which is proof against all argument, and which
cannot fail to keep man in ever-lasting ignorance; THIS
PRINCIPLE IS ‘CONTEMPT’ PRIOR T O EXAM INA­
TION.” *
Inasmuch as the only favor we ask of the world’s un-
bigoted and enlightened men and women, is that they will
assist us in forming our audience— (through the circulation
of this book)— in order that the Research Department of
The International Institute of Universal Research and A d­
ministration may safely present its proofs,— and since our
requisite audience of 200,000,000 people can readily be
formed within a matter of but a few months— (if those of
you who constitute the world's “independent,” “ right-
thinking inhabitants” will help us to accomplish this re­
sult)— we feel justified in inviting your co-operation.
In order that the oft-repeated statement— “it can’t be
done”— may be refuted, we have prepared a chart to indi­
cate just how readily— “it could be done”— if each one who
•Herbert Spencer
284 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
hears of our movement, will spend just a few minutes to
“pass the word along,” by placing as many copies of this
book in circulation as his time will permit.*
Recognizing the fact that many human beings are
largely controlled by habits of apathy and procrastination,
we cannot logically expect more than a moderate percent­
age of the result indicated on said chart, and therefore
those of you who have recognized the importance of this
movement, must work just so much more zealously if the
formation of our audience is to be quickly brought to pass.
HOW EVER, THE CH ART IRREFUTABLY PROVES
TH A T “IT CAN BE DONE” .*
The following chart will indicate to you the possible
far-reaching effect of your influence provided that— when
you have finished reading “ Mankind United”— you will
then order “ four” copies of this book and— within 24 hours
after their receipt— invite “ four” of your acquaintances to
read them, and request that they mail an acknowledgment
of having done so— “ together with their respective orders
for ‘four’ copies thereof”— in accordance with the instruc­
tions on the last page of this volume. If they in turn in­
vite “ four” of their acquaintances— within not to exceed
“three” days thereafter— to similarly co-operate, and each
group does likewise, you will observe from the chart the
possible far-reaching effect of the influence of just— “one”
— person constructively directed in such a manner.*
* Procedure described above does not apply to this Pioneer” edition.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 285
IF ALL W H O READ THIS BOOK W OULD CO­
OPERATE T O THE EXTENT OF PLACING JUST
“ FOUR” COPIES THEREOF IN CIRCULATION, N O
ONE W OU LD NEED T O D O MORE TH AN THIS,
AN D YET A W ORLD-W IDE O R G A N IZATIO N SUF­
FICIENTLY POWERFUL T O ACCOMPLISH THE RE­
SULTS W E H AVE DESCRIBED HEREIN, COULD
THEN BE FORMED W ITH IN LESS TH A N FOUR (4)
M ONTHS’ TIME.*
Estimating “ one” week for mailing— or other losses
of time— to enable each one who reads “Mankind United”
to order “ four” copies thereof and place them in circula­
tion by lending them to “ four” of his acquaintances, we
will now assume that “ two” weeks have elapsed since you
obtained your first four copies and invited four of your
acquaintances to do likewise. You will have thereby made
it possible for a total of twenty (20) people to read “ Man­
kind United” and to place their orders for copies thereof—
within a period of only “ two” weeks— as the direct result
of the “ four” books you generously took time to place in
circulation. FROM THIS LOW LY BEGINNING, THE
CH ART ON THE NEXT PAGE WILL PARTLY IL­
LUSTRATE THE POSSIBLE INFLUENCE OF YOUR
GRACIOUS ACCEPTANCE OF OUR IN VITATIO N
UPON THE CUM ULATIVE EFFECT OF SUCH
“ UNSELFISHLY” M O TIVATED “ UNITED EFFORT.” *
* Procedure described above does not apply to this "Pioneer" edition.
_____________________ (Procedure described below does not apply to this "Pioneer” edition.)_______________________
* * T H E C U M U L A T I V E POW ER OF C O - O P E R A / T I O N ^
READ CH ART FROM LEFT TO RIGHT
The 1st week’s total of 4 register 4 people each or a total of 16 people by the end of
the 2nd week
The 2nd week’s total of 16 register 4 it
64 i<
the 3rd week
The 3rd week’s total of 64 register 4 M
256 U
the 4th week
The 4th week’s total of 256 register 4 M
1,024 M
the 5lh week
The 5th week’s total of 1,024 register 4 ((
4,096 ii
the 6th week
The 6th week’s total of 4,096 register 4 U
16,384 u
the 7th week
The 7th week’s total of 16,384 register 4 U
65.536 u
the 8th week
The 8th week’s total of 65,536 register 4 ((
262,144 ((
the 9th week
The 9th week’s total of 262,144 register 4 U
1,048,576 M
the 10th week
The 10th week’s total of 1,048,576 register 4 U
4,194,304 U
the 11th week
The 11th week’s total of 4,194,304 register 4 U
16,777,216 u
the 12th week
The 12th week’s total of 16,777,216 register 4 U
67,108,864 u
the 13th week
The 13th week’s total of 67,108,864 register 4 M
268,435,456 u
the 14th week
The 14th week’s total of 268,435,456 added to the rest is a sum total of 357,913,936 people who
could— within less than four months’ time— be invited to register their willingness to vote on
the question of forming a Universal Service Corporation capable of guaranteeing individual as
well as collective economic security for the entire human race.
The above figures indicate how readily such a group can be assembled and without undue
hardship or sacrifice on the part of anyone.
If you desire, together with the rest of the right-thinking people of this earth, to receive and
vote upon the Institute’s program, PLEASE D O N O T PROCRASTINATE. REGISTER
YO U R INTEREST BY ORDERING FOUR COPIES OF THIS BOOK TO D AY, AN D IN­
VITE A T LEAST FOUR OF YOUR FRIENDS TO DO LIKEWISE.
M A N K 1 N D U N I T E D 287
Lincoln most wisely reminded the people of America, of a great
Biblical Proverb (Matthew 12:25) when he stated:—
“A HOUSE DIVIDED AG AIN ST ITSELF
CAN N O T STAN D ”
M A N K I N D “U N I T E D ”
MEANS
MANKIND FOREVER “UNLIMITED”
Help humanity to unite on the common ground of
unselfed service to one another ! ! !
It can quickly be done after 200 million intelligently
industrious people combine their votes
and
DEMAND WORLD - WIDE PEACE
AND SECURITY
The following pages describe the vital importance of your
immediate co-operation in obtaining these votes.
2S8 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
Although the Communists, Fascists and W ar Mongers
of this age have learned the secret of “ undeviating single­
ness of purpose,” the world must still wait for those of us
who call ourselves its “Christians and Idealists,” to learn
the lesson of “ courage” and “immovable convictions;”— for
at the least sign of danger, opposition, ridicule, or criticism,
we quickly withdraw our support from the activities which,
(deep down in our hearts) we may have become fully con­
vinced deserve our help. IS IT POSSIBLE TH A T THERE
IS LESS LOVE OF FREEDOM TH A N THERE IS OF
SLAVERY, OR T H A T THE CHRISTIANS OF THIS
AGE H AVE LESS “ CHARACTER” AN D “ COURAGE”
TH AN ATHEISTS OR HEATHENS?
COMMUNISTS A N D FASCISTS W ILL DIS­
CIPLINE AN D EXERCISE THEIR BODIES— AS WELL
AS THEIR MINDS — GIVE UP THEIR LEISURE
HOURS, AN D EVEN SACRIFICE THEIR “ W EDDING
RINGS,” T H A T SW ORDS MIGHT THEREBY BE
MADE— (W IT H W H ICH TO MUTILATE THEIR
O W N SONS, HUSBANDS, FATHERS OR BRO­
THERS)— IN ORDER T O ESTABLISH A N D A D ­
VANCE THEIR MOVEMENTS;— BUT DURING THIS
GENERATION THE W ORLD H AS YET T O SEE
THOSE OF US W H O CALL OURSELVES “ CHRIS­
TIANS,” D O MORE— AS A CLASS OR GROUP—
TH AN TO SMUGLY SIT BACK W ITH FOLDED
HANDS A N D EXPRESSIONS OF “SANCTIM ON­
IOUS SELF-RIGHTEOUSNESS,” WHILE W E W A IT
FOR “ GOD” TO D O OUR W O RK FOR US, AN D IN
SOME MIRACULOUS MANNER “ TO REW ARD US
FOR THE W O RK W E H AVE LEFT UNDONE,” AND
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 289
FOR OUR SELFISHNESS, INDOLENCE, AN D MEN­
TAL AN D PHYSICAL LAZINESS. GOD HAS NO
REW ARD FOR “ A PA TH Y ” !!
THE OLD SAYING T H A T “ GOD HELPS THOSE
W H O HELP THEMSELVES” HAS NEVER BEEN
MORE TRUE TH A N IT IS TO D A Y.
If women do not wish to again become just the “ prop­
erty” of men— “ as they were for so many thousands of
years” -— and if free men do not desire the shackles of
“ physical slavery,” as well as their present “ mental
slavery,” they will soon have to not merely “ pray” to be­
come better,— (and for God to lay bare a heart which one
prophetic woman once wrote— “ men already know quite
too much about” ),— but they must actually “ become bet­
ter,” and not just talk about it!!! While we are “ praying”
for Liberty, and for lives of greater security and a fuller
abundance of the good things of this world, we had also
better take the time to “ work” for that which we claim to
want, and to “ protect” that which we already possess.
IT HAS LIKEWISE BEEN M OST TRULY STA T­
ED, TH A T “ GOD DOES N O T REW ARD MEN FOR
EITHER THE W O RK THEY LEAVE UNDONE OR
FOR T H A T W H ICH IS POORLY DONE.” WE SHUD­
DER IN HORRIFIED DISGUST A T THE COM ­
MUNISTS’ ACCUSATIONS AG AIN ST THE RE­
LIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS OF OUR D AY, W HEN
THEY BLUNTLY STATE T H A T “ ALL” CHRISTIAN
MEN AN D W OM EN ARE NOTH ING MORE TH AN
“ W HITE - LIVERED - SPINELESS M ORONS,” W ITH
N E I T H E R THE “ INTELLIGENCE” NOR THE
290 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
“ COURAGE” TO RECOGNIZE A N D “ UNITEDLY
OPPOSE” THE V A ST INCREASE IN STRENGTH
AN D POW ER OF THOSE W H O DESIRE TO DES­
TR O Y THE EDUCATIONAL AN D RELIGIOUS IN­
STITUTIONS AN D FREE GOVERNMENTS OF THIS
EARTH. YET, W H A T H AVE W E DONE— “ AS A
CLASS”— T O DISPROVE THESE ACCUSATIONS???
IT SHOULD CERTAINLY BE N O LONGER
NECESSARY T O PROVE TO A N Y WELL-INFORM­
ED M AN OR W O M A N , T H A T M ANKIND ARE ON
THE VERGE OF LOSING N O T ONLY THEIR “ RE­
LIGIOUS FREEDOM,” BUT EVEN THE PRIVILEGES
OF “FREE SPEECH,” A N D T O BE GIVEN IN EX­
CHANGE EVEN LESS TH A N THE NEGRO SLAVES
OF OLD; FOR W ITH THE “M ONEY CHANGERS’ ”
COMM UNIST A N D FASCIST POLITICAL O RG AN ­
IZATIO N S INCREASING THEIR MEMBERSHIPS
TH ROU GH O UT THE W O RLD A T THE RATE OF
“TENS OF THOUSANDS OF N EW RECRUITS PER
D A Y ,” SUCH A CONDITION SHOULD BE “ SELF-
EVIDENT” T O EVEN THE M OST “ OSTRICH-LIKE”
H UM AN BEING;— N O M ATTER H O W DEEPLY HE
M A Y HIDE HIS HEAD IN THE SHIFTING SANDS
OF A BIGOTED OR APATHETIC “ FALSE SENSE”
OF SECURITY.
IS IT POSSIBLE T H A T CHRISTIAN MEN AND
W OM EN D O N O T REALIZE T H A T W IT H THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMUNISM AN D FASCISM
TH ROU GH O UT THE W ORLD, THERE W ILL NO
LONGER BE HOMES—SUCH AS W E N O W ENJOY -
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 291
NOR CHURCHES, SUNDAY SCHOOLS OR PUBLIC
SCHOOLS; N O R IN FACT, EVEN THE PRIVILEGE
OF BEING TA U G H T T O “ READ A N D W RITE”
AVAILABLE T O A N Y BUT THE RULING ARISTOC­
RACY— A N D T H A T THIS RULING CLASS WILL
BE COMPOSED OF THE M OST SELFISH A N D BRU­
TAL MEN ON OUR EARTH?? FOR THEY ARE THE
ONES W H O W ILL EMERGE VICTORIOUS IN THE
STRUGGLE TO DESTROY THE FREE INSTITU­
TIONS AN D LIBERTIES OF THIS CIVILIZATION,
UNLESS THE INTELLIGENT, CLEAR-THINKING
MEN AN D W OM EN, “W H O CALL THEMSELVES
CHRISTIANS,” SH OW AS MUCH AMBITIOUS
WILLINGNESS T O “F I G H T ” — N O T W I T H
“SW ORDS,” BUT W ITH “ USEFUL AN D CO N ­
STRUCTIVE IDEAS”— FOR THEIR RIGHTS, AS ARE
THOSE W H O DESIRE T O STEAL THE GOD-GIVEN
BIRTHRIGHT OF FREEDOM FROM HUM ANITY.
Where is our much-preached-of love of the Golden
Rule? Is there actually any energy, vitality or even “sin­
cerity” in back of our pretended love of its precepts? Do
we deserve the right to have even been taught this soul-
inspiring definition of a logical and intelligent type of
human relationship when, generation after generation,
those of us “ who call ourselves Christians,” sit back— “like
inarticulate beasts of the field”— and let hundreds of mil­
lions of our brother and sister members of the human family
suffer from the nameless fears and superstitions which ac­
company their complete— yet utterly needless— ignorance
and illiteracy?
292 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
Where is the proof that we deserve either freedom or
security, while no united voice is raised in protest of the fact
that five hundred million (500,000,000) men, women, and
little children are always hungry— (one out of every four
of the earth’s inhabitants)— and hundreds of millions are
suffering from wholly inexcusable exposure;— homeless,
unclothed, unfed, unwanted— “ children of God?”— Chil­
dren who are just as “precious” to Him as any one of the
smug well-fed humans who sanctimoniously raises his voice
in prayer and thanksgiving for life’s blessings;— blessings
which God has no intention of letting men continue to en­
joy, unless they are shared with all alike, as is even the sun­
shine, the air, and the songs of birds, (evil destroys itself).
W E FULLY DESERVE THE TITLE OF “SELF-
RIGHTEOUS HYPOCRITES,” W HEN W E THANK
GOD FOR FOOD AN D CLOTHES, WHILE W E PLOW
UP MILLIONS OF ACRES OF W H E A T A N D COT­
TO N CROPS, DESTROY TENS OF MILLIONS OF
CATTLE— AN D COMM IT SUCH CRIMES— K N O W ­
ING FULL W E L L TH A T TH IRTY MILLION
(30,000,000) PEOPLE WILL DIE OF STARVATIO N
THIS YEAR. MILLIONS OF H U M AN BEINGS MUR­
DERED EACH M ONTH, A F T E R SUFFERING
MONTHS OR YEARS OF THE SLOW EXCRUCIAT­
ING TORTURE OF HUNGER, AN D YET THOSE OF
US “ W H O CALL OURSELVES CHRISTIANS,” CA N ­
N O T EVEN CLAIM AS A N EXCUSE, T H A T WE
H AVEN ’T THE TIME TO HARVEST AN D DISTRI­
BUTE THESE NECESSITIES OF LIFE TO OUR
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 29i
NEEDY BROTHERS, FOR RIGHT WHILE THEY
ARE DYING OF STARVATIO N , TENS OF MILLIONS
OF OUR O W N PEOPLE ARE IDLE A N D ENTIRELY
UNEMPLOYED. SINCE W E FEED THE UNEM­
PLOYED W ITH TAXES W E PAY TO THE GOVERN­
MENT FOR THE DOLES THEY RECEIVE, SURELY
W E COULD HIRE THEM W IT H THIS T A X MONEY
TO HARVEST— INSTEAD OF TO DESTROY— THE
FOOD FOR W H ICH COUNTLESS MILLIONS OF
STARVIN G H U M AN BEINGS ARE DAILY APPEAL­
ING T O US!!!
No, we do not deserve either our liberties or the en­
joyment of independence or security, when we are neither
willing to fight for such blessings— (through the applica­
tion of constructive ideas)— nor to share them with others.
W e no longer have the right to thank God for these bless­
ings, while we are too cowardly or too lazy to protect or
to share them; nor any justification for expecting either
“progress or happiness” while such qualities of selfishness
control our thoughts and our lives: For “ God Is Love” and
we forfeit the right to commune with Him, when we no
longer express this quality. Instead of raising our eyes to
Heaven, “ like the self-righteous Pharisee,” we should bow
our heads in shame and grief as did the “ Penitent Publi­
can,” in the Biblical narrative.
Is it so strange, or any very great wonder, that the
“ War Mongers” and “Money Changers” of the world have
been able to discredit its Christian or so-called enlightened
governments;— its freedom of speech and freedom of wor­
ship;-—the home, the benefits of lessons learned at our
294 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
mothers’ knees, and the Sunday schools and Churches
which are supposed to teach brotherly love?
Is it any wonder that hundreds of millions of starved,
bitter, hate-filled, neglected and unwanted human beings
will reach for the bait of “ counterfeit brotherhood” offered
to them under its many names called “ Communism,” “Fas­
cism,” “Socialism,” “ Naziism,” “ White Shirts,” “ Blue
Shirts,” “ Pink Shirts,” “ Green Shirts,” “Black Shirts,”
“ Gold Shirts,” “Silver Shirts,” and shirts with all colors
of the rainbow;— or that such people are easily deceived
into believing that they will find a “ mountain of gold”
either just around the corner— or at the end of the shirt?
IS IT A N Y W ONDER T H A T THEY GRASP A T
SUCH STR A W S OF HOPE— “ AS THE ‘TALE’ OF A
SHIRT”— W HEN THE CHRISTIAN PEOPLE OF THE
W ORLD T O W H O M THEY H AVE TH OU GH T
THEY COULD APPEAL, H AVE TURNED BACKS OF
SCORN A N D CONTEMPT UPON THEM, AN D
H AVE DESTROYED THE FOOD W H ICH THEY SO
SORELY NEEDED?
IS IT A N Y W ON DER T H A T MILLIONS UPON
MILLIONS OF THOSE W H O ONCE LOVED THE
TEACHINGS OF THE GENTLE MASTER, A N D W H O
LOOKED T O THE W O RLD ’S CHRISTIAN PEOPLE
AS CIVILIZATION ’S “ ONE HOPE” OF SALVATION,
H AVE LOST CONFIDENCE IN THOSE W H O CALL
THEMSELVES CHRISTIANS? — THOSE W H O
STAN D IDLY BY “ PRATTLING” ABOUT “ A GOL­
DEN RULE,” WHILE W IT H ONE H AN D THEY DES­
TR O Y THE W O RLD ’S RESOURCES OF FOOD, AN D
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 295
W ITH THE OTHER H AN D PUSH A W A Y THOSE
W H O W OULD NEED LITTLE MORE TH A N A
CRUST OF BREAD OR A HANDFUL OF MEAL TO
STILL THE TORTURES OF THEIR STARVED PAIN-
RACKED LITTLE BODIES!!!
No, it is not enough just to pray, to preach, or to sing,
for unless the Christians of the world are willing to unite
into one great “ International Body,” that they may there­
by acquire the influence with which to take “concerted
action” for the immediate relief of human suffering,— (in­
stead of— as is so often the case— expending their energies
and satisfying their emotions with psalm singing,)— they
will soon no longer be given even the opportunity to sing.
Unless they have sufficient vision to “ quickly” awaken and
make use of their privileges of “ free speech,” and the right
to assemble and unite their efforts in behalf of worthy acti­
vities, their voices will soon be raised with those of the
rest of the world’s starved, hopeless human beings, while
they lie crushed under the heels of the world’s “ Money
Changers.”
THIS “EXPLANATORY” BULLETIN — FROM
THE RESEARCH DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERNA­
TIONAL INSTITUTE OF UNIVERSAL RESEARCH
AN D ADM INISTRATION— PRESENTS AN APPEAL
IN BEHALF OF INTELLIGENTLY CO-ORDINATED
“ W ORLD-W IDE” ACTION.
CHRISTIANS OF THE W ORLD!!! HAVE YOU
THE “ W ISDO M ” — THE “ VISION” — AN D THE
“ COURAGE” T O A C T UPON OUR INVITATION???
296 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
In answer to those who may believe that it would take
years to form a world-wide organization two hundred mil­
lion (200,000,000) strong, we beg to call their attention
to the fact that with present day methods of inter-com­
munication— rapid transportation — telephones — radios —
automobiles— airmail, etc., etc., such an organization could
readily be formed within less than “ four months’ ” time,—
and yet not even “ one” of the 200,000,000 people we seek,
would be required to place more than four (4) copies of
this book in circulation, nor spend more than a few hours
of time in order to accomplish such a result,— provided
that “each” of those who read “Mankind United,” will
make it his or her business to immediately obtain not less
than “ four (4) copies” thereof, and place them in circula­
tion. (See chart on page 286).*
In fact, when only eight million (8,000,000) of the
world’s right-thinking inhabitants have each formed a
Branch of our International 4-4-S-3-4 Club, (previously
described,) it will require less than “ one month” thereafter,
to complete our audience of 200,000,000 people. Within
thirty days from the date that this result has been brought
to pass, The Universal Service Corporation can be formed,
and within less than one month from that date, the world’s
unemployed men and women will be going back to work
at the rate of over two million (2,000,000) people per
week!!!
IF YOU BELIEVE T H A T THE CHRISTIAN IN­
H ABITANTS OF OUR EARTH H AVE AS MUCH IN­
TELLIGENCE AS THE COMMUNISTS A N D FAS­
CISTS,— (O R AS MUCH INTELLIGENCE AS THEIR
ATHEISTIC FINANCIAL BACKERS— “ THE MONEY
* Procedure described above does not apply to this "Pioneer” edition.
otjM sn JO asoqj JO (tuoijoy pajiuQ,, s jE jp o u i u ji aqj Xq ueqj
JEM. 8 u iX o J }S 3 p -U O IJ E Z I]IA ID p S U U E jd (< (S J 3 § U E q ;) X s U O p ^ ,, 3 q j
§ U U U 3 A 3 jd JO SUB3UI J 3 q jO X u B 3 J 3 q j 34E JOU l ( i3UOJB S 4 3 q
-wnu jo jqSiaM,, pus i(3DJOj ajruq,, Xq ppoM aqj jo ssidejs
-oui3p sqj SuiJ3Modj3AO jo ajqBdED Xjqgnojoqj aq jjim Xaqj
ajojaq 2uoj 3q jou jjim ji pus ((‘XBp J3d„ spussnoqj jo susj
JO 3JEJ 3l[J JB SJirUDSJ M3U SulUUIM 3JE Xaqj JOj jiusiunui
-UI0 3 pUE U
ISX3SEJ JO sSuiqDE3J DTJSISqjE aqj jo pE3jds aqj
SuiJU3A3jd JO qjJE3 Siqj BO XBM 431]JO OU S
I 3J3qX
« m v d o a «3w odni av n b a,, aM V -«w o a
-aatfd iv a b a ,,— <saixiNax>ioddo xvn b a,,—s o m
-ONOD3 aidO /A o x sxdaxadd <snsaf xsidHD
a o uNOIXVOFIddV TVDIXDVdd,, 3HX dO dlVH
-aa n i £
i33io a dnoA „ a siv d o x ssaN H SidiasN n
3HX (3NV aOVmOD 3HX QOA 3AVH id3HXONV
o x sv 3n o o x Honw s v SDMOiaa aoN voN n av
aiaixsavH xajsn diaHX x v h x xN iodatsivxs aHx
w odd sa o d n o sa d s<HXdva d n o do N O ixnarax
Sid QNV NOIXOQdOdd 3HX dOSNOdS OX ONI
-TII/& d a o d o sn o io n a d d o fv w «3n o „ NaAa
XON ‘ON 3dn NVWflH dO SdlVddV SSdNISna
AVCI-Ad3A3 IVDIXDVdd 3HX NI XS3X HdlAj
-didOAk. v o x «A x n v a 5 a oiw oN ooa,, do «aand
N 3 d io o „ .sa sa f xsidHD x a d o x «‘a o v d n o o
3HX SVH„ dO «‘D N IT M SI„ d3HXI3 H3IH/&
—(«d3XSVIM daO » dO SdaXSXOOd 3HX NI ONI
-xA onoa aa o x sw iv ao h d ih a O—d n o d o sn o io
-nad dOfVW «3NO„ NaAa dNId OX X3A 3AVH
3/A ‘H D dvasad ssa a a sv a o do «SdvaA a x x is,.
daxdv dOd :XI 3AOdd OX Sfl d!3H flOA XVHX
x sa o o n s a/A—L s a d o i dVAu o n v «sdaoNVHD
L6Z a a x i N n a N H N v w
298 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
call ourselves “ Christians.” W e must forget our personal
antagonisms and theological differences of opinion at least
long enough to practically apply Christ Jesus’ “ Golden
Rule” to the every-day task of producing and distributing
the necessities and luxuries of human life, as well as man’s
spiritual requirements. OUR “DIVINELY WISE” MAS­
TER MOST CERTAINLY TA U G H T A “ GOLDEN
RULE” W H ICH IS N O T MERELY T O BE “ PREACH­
ED ABO U T”— BUT ONE W HICH IS ALSO TO BE
“TH OU GH T ABOUT,” AN D TO BE “LIVED” !!!
UNLESS W E ARE WILLING T O ESTABLISH AN
ECONOMIC SYSTEM W HICH W ILL BE CAPABLE
OF “ IMMEDIATELY” PROVIDING A UNIVERSAL
STAN D ARD OF ECONOMIC EQUALITY FAR SUR­
PASSING EVEN “THE PROMISES” OF THE COM­
MUNISTS, (W HOSE POISONOUS BAIT IS N O W BE­
ING SW ALLOW ED “HOOK, LINE A N D SINKER,”
BY HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF OUR W O RLD ’S
“HOMELESS A N D HOPELESS” INHABITANTS),
W E N O LONGER DESERVE THE RIGHTS OF
EITHER “ LIFE, LIBERTY, OR THE PURSUIT OF
HAPPINESS.” A N D THEY SHOULD— “AS THEY
INEVITABLY W ILL”— BE TAKEN FROM US, UN­
LESS W E H AVE SUFFICIENT “ LOVE” OF THESE
RIGHTS T O MEASURE UP TO THE PRIVILEGES
OF PROGRESS A N D “ UNIVERSAL WELFARE”
W HICH THEY PROVIDE, AN D UNLESS WE ARE
WILLING T O START DOING UNTO OTHERS “ AS
WE W OU LD T H A T THEY SHOULD DO UNTO US:”
— A N D N O T JUST “ PREACH” AND “SING PSALMS”
ABOUT IT!!!
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 299
CHAPTER XX.
A CALL T O ARMS !
AN D
A BRIEF SUM M ARY OF THE INSTITUTE’S
PROGRAM
W H A T YO U CAN D O T O HELP
All that has been said in this “explanatory” bulletin
regarding the program of The International Institute of
Universal Research and Administration, would be of no
avail were it not “ acted upon.”
Unless those who have read our proclamation decide to
“personally co-operate” in the promulgation of this message,
they might just as well have not read it at all. Words
“ without actions” are like rooms without lights— they may
be “ veritable treasure houses”— and yet if no hand were
reached out to make use of the treasures— (by turning on
the lights and discovering their true value)— in other words,
by acting upon the knowledge of the “ availability” of such
treasures as our words have described,— there would be no
reason for having written them.
Were it not that the “ actions” we recommend for the
formation of an organization large enough to accomplish
the result we have herein described, would require but
little more energy than that which you might use in reach­
ing out your hand and pressing an electric light button in
300 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
some “ treasure room” into which you had been led, there
might be some slight justification for hesitancy or procras-
tination. However, the only steps you are asked to take,
consist in placing four (4) or more copies of this “ Explana­
tory” bulletin in circulation by lending them to your many
friends and acquaintances.*
Only such action on the part of many millions of men
and women— “ and without delay”— can possibly bring
about the formation of a group of people sufficiently large
to combat the ceaselessly growing menace— not only of
Communism— but also that of another great world war; a
war, the successful consummation of which will bring about
the establishment of a type of human slavery so terrifying
that words cannot even start to describe it.
The responsibility of preventing the fulfillment of the
plans of our world’s incalculably wealthy Hidden Rulers,
belongs as much to one as to another, and yet— (if the
world’s “ right-thinking” inhabitants are willing to act as a
body and do as did the Children of Israel— in their march
around the walls of Jericho— and they will— with “ one
voice”— demand that these subversive forces be forever
uprooted,and that an economic system be founded upon the
“ Literal Signification” as well as the “ Spiritual Principle”
of Christ Jesus’ Golden Rule)— such a result can be quickly
brought to pass,— and with but little individual effort.
If you value the safety and happiness of your loved
ones— as well as your own security— you will not only
“act” upon the recommendations contained on the last
* Procedure described above does not apply to this "Pioneer” edition.
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 301
page of this book, but you will do it “Today,” while this
subject is fresh in your thought, and before numerous re­
sponsibilities or demands upon your time cause you to post­
pone such “ needed” action.
W E STILL H AVE THE PRIVILEGES OF “ FREE
SPEECH” AN D “THE RIGHTS OF ASSEMBLY” IN
BUT A FEW OF THE W O RLD ’S GREAT NATIONS.
H O W LONG IT WILL BE BEFORE THE RIGHT TO
SAY W H A T W E THINK, A N D THE PRIVILEGE OF
MEETING W IT H OUR FELLOW BEINGS FOR THE
PURPOSE OF RIGHTING A N Y W RONGS UNDER
W H ICH W E M A Y BE SUFFERING, WILL STILL BE
GRANTED TO US— IN VIEW OF THE G R O W TH OF
COMMUNISM A N D DICTATORSHIPS— N O ONE
KNOW S. BUT “ T O D A Y ” IS YOURS!— AN D A T
“THIS MINUTE”— “N O W !” — WHILE YO U ARE
READING THIS BOOK, Y O U STILL H AVE THOSE
PRIVILEGES. D O N O T DEPRECIATE THEIR IM-
PORTANCE, N OR BE DECEIVED IN TO THINKING
T H A T THEY W ILL ENDURE IN SPITE OF THE U N ­
DERMINING INFLUENCE OF THE “ATHEISTIC
TERMITES” OF COMMUNISM A N D F A S C IS M -
SELFISHNESS — GREED— BRUTALITY— A N D THE
M AD AM BITION OF THE FABULOUSLY W EALTH Y
“ M ORAL IDIOTS” W H O N O W CONTROL THE
W O RLD ’S MAJOR FINANCIAL A N D POLITICAL
STRUCTURES! D O N O T BE DECEIVED IN TO BE­
LIEVING T H A T SUCH RIGHTS W ILL EXIST W IT H ­
O U T “YOUR HELP” AND THE W EIGH T OF “ YOUR
INFLUENCE,” (EVEN TH OU GH IT M A Y SEEM TO
BE EVER SO SLIGHT IN YOUR O W N EYES.) FOR
302 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
SUCH IS N O T THE CASE! ALREADY THESE
RIGHTS H AVE BEEN LARGELY LOST!!!
THERE ARE BUT FEW PILLARS UPHOLDING
THE LIBERTIES OF FREE MEN, T H A T H AVE N OT
ALREADY BEEN G N AW ED TH ROUGH — OR RO T­
TED OUT A T THEIR VERY CORES— BY THE
POISONOUS ATHEISTIC TEACHINGS OF THE
W O RLD ’S TENS OF MILLIONS OF COMMUNISTS
A N D FASCISTS;— ATHEISTS W H O TEACH “ THE
BROTHERHOOD OF M A N ” W HEN THEY SEEK
NEW RECRUITS FOR THEIR RANKS, YET WHOSE
LEADERS LIVE THE LIVES OF “ RAVENOUS
W OLVES,” A N D PRACTICE THE BRUTALITIES OF
THE DARK AGES, AS SOON AS THEY HAVE
PLACED THEIR VICTIM S COMPLETELY UNDER
THEIR DESPOTIC CONTROL.
Only “ your help”— combined with millions of other
clear-thinking men and women— can prevent civilization’s
final overthrow by these forces!!! Only the establishment
of an economic system based upon the irrevocable principle
of ‘’Universal Economic Equality,” — as preached— not by
the Communists and Fascists— but by “ Christ Jesus”—
(when He promised us that the Kingdom of Heaven was
“ at hand,” and its limitless joys available for our happiness
whenever we would practice His Golden Rule, and “equally
share” the world’s bounty with our fellowmen)— can ever
destroy the “ humanly planned” and “ humanly perpetuated”
causes of world-wide illiteracy, poverty, and war.
It is imperative that you raise your voice— “ now”— in
behalf of the establishment of such an economic system,
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 303
while you are still allowed to speak your thoughts and to
meet with your brother-man for discussions regarding them.
Your help is greatly needed if we are to maintain— and per­
petually retain— such rights. You possess these rights to­
day, but no one on this earth can promise that you will
still be granted them tomorrow. W e therefore feel fully
justified in appealing to you for your co-operation, and in
warning you against procrastinating. W e not only invite
you to act upon the recommendations contained herein, but
it would not be possible for us to “too strongly” impress
upon your thought, the urgency of acting “ today!”
*“ There is a principle, which is a bar against all infor­
mation, which is proof against all argument, and which can­
not fail to keep man in everlasting ignorance.”— A G A IN
WE REMIND YO U T H A T THIS PRINCIPLE IS—
“ CONTEMPT PRIOR TO EXAM INATION .”
INASMUCH AS OUR W ORLD-W IDE PRO­
GRAM WILL BE FREE TO THOSE W H O H AVE
PURCHASED A N D CAREFULLY STUDIED A COPY
OF THIS BOOK, OUR SPONSORS REQUEST T H A T
YOU POSTPONE A N Y ATTEM PT T O JUDGE THE
M A N Y ASPECTS RELATIVE TO THE PRACTICAL
OPERATION OF SAID PROGRAM , OR THE UNI­
VERSAL SERVICE CORPORATION, UNTIL THE
CONCLUSION OF OUR RESEARCH DEPART­
MENT’S 30-DAY RELEASE OF ITS DISCOVERIES
AN D RECOMMENDATIONS. THIS REQUEST IS
JUSTIFIED— (A S W E HAVE PREVIOUSLY STATED
HEREIN)— BY THE FACT T H A T N O T EVEN THE
* Herbert Spencer
304 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
W O RLD ’S MOST BRILLIANT ECONOMISTS COULD
A T THIS STAGE IN OUR PROGRAM, W IT H AN Y
DEGREE OF FAIRNESS EITHER T O THEMSELVES
OR TO US, PASS JUDGMENT THEREON.
ALL WE ARE ASKING YO U TO DO A T THIS
TIME, IS TO HELP US FORM AN AUDIENCE LARGE
ENOUGH T O W A R R A N T THE RELEASE OF OUR
RESEARCH DEPARTM ENT’S PAST M AN Y YEARS
OF DISCOVERIES, AN D A FULL A N D COMPLETE
DESCRIPTION OF ITS RECOMMENDATIONS; BUT
W E D O ASK T H A T YO U HELP US T O FORM THIS
AUDIENCE A N D T H A T YO U GRAN T US YOUR
CO-OPERATION IN ITS FORM ATION, “ W ITH O U T
DELAY!”
I— If you believe that the world has enough efficient
executives, highly trained workers and mechanical in­
ventions, and that it has sufficient undeveloped re­
sources with which to end both poverty and war;—
if— (knowing that the world has over one hundred
(100) times more agricultural land than has ever been
intensively cultivated)— you are willing to permit such
undeveloped lands to be made use of to produce the
food with which to feed “ the entire human race;”
II— If you do not object to voting in favor of granting
five hundred million (500,000,000) of the present “ un­
employed” inhabitants of our earth the right to keep
from “ starving to death,” and if you do not object to
allowing them to exchange their labor for food, by
creating and maintaining tens of thousands of miles
of broad tree-lined highways— constructing greatly
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 305
needed flood control facilities— canals and harbors—
building air ports— draining the swamps and taking
water into the deserts— designing and developing
thousands of gloriously beautiful parks— playgrounds
and athletic fields,— and to thereby turn our world in­
to the garden spot it was intended to be;
III— If you are willing to permit the world’s hundreds of
millions of intelligent, talented, and highly capable
unemployed men and women to regain their morale,
and to earn their financial independence by turning
our earth into a literal paradise of beauty and security
for the entire human race;
IV— If you do not object to having the talents and efforts
of such people directed not only for the accomplish­
ment of the above described results, but also combined
with the rest of the world’s trained workers to provide
a beautiful, substantial, and well-furnished home— (set
in beautifully landscaped grounds)— for every family
on our earth— “ within less than ten years” — irres­
pective of race, religion, class, color or vocation,— and
subject only to the willingness of the Corporation’s
“ co-owner” employees to learn how to use— enjoy—
and protect such possessions as are made available to
them;
V — If you are willing that mankind should receive—
through the avenues of more efficient methods of pro­
duction and distribution— an immediate saving of ap­
proximately twenty-five (25c) cents out of the average
dollar now spent for merchandise, and that all men
306 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
and women in every nation should be granted the fol­
lowing described benefits:—
1st.— Guaranteed immediate employment and
an international labor schedule of 4
hours per day, 4 days a week, 8 months
each year;
2nd.— An assured vacation period (with pay)
for all workers, of 3 days per week,
and 4 entire months each year;
3rd.-—A minimum of $3,000.00 per year—
($250.00 per month)— salary or in-
come, for all adults— “ both men and
women”— irrespective of race, creed,
color, class, profession or vocation;
4th.— A pension of not less than $3,000.00
per year for all men and women over
40 years of age, (who desire to have
their full time for their own use,)—
provided they have worked a total of
not less than eleven thousand (11,000)
hours for the internationally owned
World-Wide corporation, — (approxi-
mately 20 years of work at 4 hours per
day, 4 days per week, 8 months each
year, or 10 years of work at 8 hours
per day, 4 days per week, 8 months
each year);
5th.— A pension of $3,000.00 per year—
(without any restrictions as to length
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 307
of employment)— for all incapacitated
men or women, and for all persons over
60 years of age, who desire to have
their full time for their own use;
VI— If you are willing to have a great universal service
corporation immediately established, which will be
“equally owned” and “ equally controlled” by those
who approve of its formation, and which will be cap­
able of bringing to pass the above described results
without bloodshed or resort to “ brute force” of any
kind, and without “ confiscating”— “destroying”— or
“acquiring”— anyone’s properties or assets,— until just
compensation has first been allowed,” — but which will
be powerful, influential, and wealthy enough to “ fully
reimburse,” not only those whom it will employ, but
also the individuals, groups or companies, whose pro­
perties or assets may be required for the successful
accomplishment of the results and benefits to which
we have herein referred;— a corporation capable of
producing enough food, clothes, homes, and educa­
tional, cultural and travel facilities, to abundantly meet
the demands of every man, woman and child on our
planet, and able to make all useful, interesting or
beautiful parts of the earth, accessible by adequate
highways, harbors and air ports;— a corporation with
the facilities for permanently hiring and directing a
force of one hundred million (100,000,000) men and
women gardeners and landscape architects, exclu­
sively for the purpose of developing and permanently
maintaining thousands of parks, gardens, playgrounds,
and athletic fields in all nations;— a corporation with
308 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
the educational facilities for teaching a universal
auxiliary language, and thereby rapidly overcoming
the religious, racial, and class antagonisms which now
result in such widespread and destructive hatred;
VII— If you are willing— through the concerted action of
the world’s educated and religious peoples— to bring
about the disbandment of all armies and navies, and
the destruction of all munitions and armaments of war
in all nations, and to do so “simultaneously” with the
establishment of an International Home Guard capable
of maintaining peace and order throughout the world;
— and if you are willing that there should be no more
revolutions, “ wars” or “ rumors of wars;” no more
illiteracy or “ maliciously perpetuated” forms of super­
stition; no more “ hungry” or “starving” men, women,
or little children, and no more, ugliness or poverty in
any part of our gloriously beautiful world home;
VIII— If you are willing to have our Research Depart­
ment’s discoveries presented to you during a great
world-wide free 30-day program;— (evidence which
will— for all time to come— prove that each and every
one of the benefits described in this volume, can be
brought to pass at any time that two hundred million
(200,000,000) “intelligently industrious” and “ right-
thinking” men and women agree to combine their tal­
ents and their strength towards such an accomplish­
ment;)
IX— If— after receiving the above-mentioned program—
you would be willing to cast your vote either “ for” or
“ against” each of the one hundred (100) recommen-
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 309
dations which will at that time be submitted to you,—
(bearing always in mind that you will then be voting
with a “ full and complete knowledge” of all facts,—
“not blindly” ); and— (in final conclusion of this re­
sume of our program)— if you are willing to take into
consideration the fact that every minute of hunger
and exposure, now being “needlessly experienced” by
hundreds of millions o f “starving” — “homeless” hu­
man beings, seems like “ an eternity of torture” to them,
and if you are willing to also take into consideration
the further and even more greatly important fact— to
you and your loved ones— that every hour of delay
lessens mankind’s ability to safeguard their lives and
their liberties against the impending war of planned
wholesale extermination;— then we invite you to
help us to help you— your loved ones— your friends
and your neighbors, to help the right - thinking
men and women of this earth to “immediately”
meet together in a common cause on the com­
mon ground of a common-sense world-wide program
of “ right ideas,” and a final “ conclusive attack”
upon the “ real causes” of mankind’s poverty,
bloodshed and suffering.
MEANWHILE, LET US SHORTEN THE PERIOD
OF H U M AN ITY’S “ UTTERLY NEEDLESS A G O N Y,”
AS MUCH A N D AS “ RAPIDLY” AS POSSIBLE BY
“ A T ONCE” GOING IN TO ACTION TO SPEED THIS
PRACTICAL MESSAGE— OF “ PEACE O N EARTH
AN D GOO D WILL TO ALL M ANKIND”— QUICKLY
UPON ITS W A Y !!!
310 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
IN HELPING TO BUILD OUR GREATLY NEED­
ED NEW ECONOMIC SYSTEM Y O U H A V E
STARTED W ITH US UPON THE MOST GLORIOUS
ADVENTURE EVER EXPERIENCED BY THE MEN
O R W OM EN OF A N Y AGE;— A N ADVENTURE
TRULY W O R TH Y OF INTELLIGENT CREATURES,
— FOR YO U R REW ARD WILL BE A W ORLD OF
“ BROTHERLY LOVE” AN D “ UNIVERSAL H AP­
PINESS” ;— A W ORLD IN W H ICH THERE WILL BE
NEITHER “ W A R ” N OR “ POVERTY.”
BEFORE M A N Y YEARS H AVE P A S S E D
ALON G THEIR W A Y , THOSE W H O ARE N O W
THE W O RLD ’S SUFFERING, HOPELESS, HELPLESS
MILLIONS, WILL ENRICH YO U R LIFE W ITH
THEIR M A N Y EXPRESSIONS OF GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION FOR THE BLESSINGS OF SECUR­
ITY AND HAPPINESS W H ICH YOUR GENEROUS
ASSISTANCE WILL H AVE HELPED TO PROVIDE
FOR THEM.
RECOGNIZING YOUR GRACIOUS A C ­
CEPTANCE OF THIS IN VITATIO N , THE
INTERNATIONAL REGISTRATION BUR­
EAU-PUBLISHERS OF “ M ANKIND U NIT­
ED”— TOGETHER W ITH THE INTERNA­
TIONAL LEGION OF VIGILANTES AN D
OUR ARM Y OF LOYAL, DEVOTED AS­
SOCIATE W ORKERS SINCERELY THANK
YOU, AN D JOIN IN W ELCOMING YOU
AS A MEMBER OF THE “ PIONEER”
G R O U P O F “ M ANKIND U N I T E D . ”
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 311
WHEN, IN THE N O T FAR-DISTANT
FUTURE, IT BECOMES YOUR PRIVI­
LEGE TO H AVE “ FREELY” REVEAL­
ED TO YOU, “ THE PROOFS” W H ICH
WILL CONSTITUTE “ A COMPLETE
GUARANTEE” OF PERSONAL AS
WELL AS INTERNATIONAL SECUR­
ITY AN D FREEDOM, YO U WILL
THEN FULLY RECOGNIZE THIS
ACTION — (W H IC H DEEP D O W N IN
YOUR HEART W E FEEL T H A T
YO U KNEW IT W A S RIGHT FOR
YO U T O TAKE) — AS H AVIN G
BEEN ONE OF THE MOST IM PORT­
A N T ACTS OF YOUR ENTIRE LIFE.
— IM PORTAN T—
A CAREFUL READING OF
THE FOLLOWING PAGES IS
ESSENTIAL IF YO U ARE
TO FULLY UNDERSTAND
W H A T YO U H AVE READ
UP T O T H I S P O I N T .
312 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
A PROCLAMATION FOR ALL “ PIONEERS"
OF
THE PACIFIC COAST DIVISION OF THE
INTERNATIONAL REGISTRATION BUREAU
The Statistical departments of The International
Institute of Universal Research and Administration
have completed their final studies of the results of
the public’s co-operation— during the past five years
— towards the formation of a necessary audience of
200,000,000 men and women, selected from the en­
lightened classes of the world’s m ajor nations. A l­
though these studies indicate a most gratifying
quality of sincerity among a small percentage of
those who have become members of our partially-
formed audience, nevertheless, by far the largest
number of persons who have indicated an interest
in our program, have done so because of what they
have hoped to derive— in the nature of personal
gain— therefrom, rather than what they are willing
to do to bring about a happier world for us all.
Of a total of slightly over 173,000,000 persons
who were thought to have indicated a desire to be­
come members of our audience, less than 75,000,000
have actually qualified for this privilege. Of this
number only 15,000,000 are citizens of the English-
speaking nations.
Of a total of 7,150,000 registrants who expressed
a willingness to act as our center managers, to assist
in conducting the elections during the world-wide
30-day program, only 3,000,000 have actually quali­
fied for such duties. Of this number only 500,000
are citizens of the English-speaking nations.
In September of 1938 it was announced that— due
to certain steps which would be taken by the totali­
tarian governments of Europe and Asia the follow­
ing spring— our audience would have to be com-
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 313
pieted before March 28th, 1939, or it would be
impossible— for a period of some years—for the
Institute to again develop sufficient influence and
public support to justify the release of its program.
This announcement was made because of the fact
that many thousands of our workers in Europe and
Asia were being executed each month, (due to their
activities in connection with this program ), and
because of the further fact that the percentage of
executions was increasing so rapidly, and the dan­
ger of a wholesale blood purge involving millions
of our registrants was becoming so apparent that
we could no longer permit them to assume the risks
associated with extending our invitation to the
peoples of such nations after March 28th, 1939.
You will all recall the tense situation which arose in
Europe the last week of March 1939. During our
30-dav program you will be enabled to understand
the significance of said date, and also how our
Research departments were enabled to predict such
a period, and to do so six months prior to its
occurrence.
During the years of 1937 and 1938 our organiza­
tion had so weakened the influence of the world’s
subversive forces, and had so disorganized its war
machine, that the release of our program— (had
the general public been willing to assist in the
formation of our audience)-—would have met with
but little opposition from such sources. However,
the world was warned that the complete destruction
of the juggernauts of war could constitute the
only assurance of lasting peace, and mankind were
offered a program capable not only of accomplish­
ing such a result, but also of erecting a new world­
wide economic system, with the “ Golden Rule” of
absolute economic equality as its “ cornerstone” .
The apathy and indifference of the so-called en-
314 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
lightened classes of the English-speaking nations
have necessitated a temporary withdrawal of this
invitation.
In many parts of Europe and Asia an active
interest in our program constitutes sufficient cause
for the execution of the person so interested, yet
over five times as many men and women in those
countries— than in the English-speaking ones— have
seen fit to run such a risk in exchange for the pos­
sibility of erecting a new economic system with a
“ true” brotherhood of man as its foundation. LOSS
OF FREEDOM, COMMUNISM, FASCISM, AND
NAZIISM ARE MORE THAN JUST TOPICS OF
CONVERSATION TO THOSE PEOPLE, BUT
TH EY CAN NO LONGER BE ASKED TO MAKE
ALL OF THE SACRIFICES. If our audience is to
be completed, and the Institute’s program eventu­
ally released, the members of the English-speaking
nations of the world must make this result possible.
With 1,500,000,000 human beings (in other words
three out of every four members of the human race)
no longer permitted the privileges of freedom of
thought, speech or assembly, nor religious, educa­
tional or economic freedom ; . . . — beyond that of
the beasts of the field— and with 1,000,000,000 per­
sons (!/2 of the world’s population) unable to either
read or write, and therefore the easy victims of
greed, superstition and man’s inhumanity to man;
. . . and with 500,000,000 men, women and little chil­
dren (*4 of the world’s population) always hungry
. . . it would seem as though the time had come for
the men and women of the English-speaking na­
tions to throw off the swaddling clothes of mental
infancy, and to recognize the fact that vigorous,
courageous and unselfish right “ action” must be
expressed by the citizens of such nations as still
have the privileges of at least some slight degree of
freedom of thought and action, if they are to pre­
vent the complete collapse of our present civiliza­
tion, and the permanent enslavement of what is left
of the human race. After some hundreds of mil­
lions of its most enlightened and virile members
have been slaughtered by the small handful of
insanely ambitious moral idiots who now control
our monetary, industrial, and governmental sys­
tems, mankind’s enslavement will be inevitable.
The greater part of the Institute’s resources and
influence must of necessity continue to be directed
towards delaying the world war which is in­
tended by the hidden rulers to act as the means
of obtaining complete control over the earth’s re­
sources and its peoples. The public’s failure to
accept our invitation within the time specified, and
the bigotry, apathy, indifference, and almost uni­
versal quality of procrastination inherent in the
thoughts of those who should constitute the en­
lightened class (or “ thinkers” ) of the English-
speaking nations, have resulted in our Sponsors be­
ing obliged to adopt plans for the complete reor­
ganization of their registration bureaus, and a re­
vision of the invitation extended to mankind.
Although we are now in a position to guarantee
the release of part of our 30-day program, and the
preliminary establishment of the Universal Service
Corporation within a definite number of years
(which will later be specified herein) it is, never­
theless, essential that we know the exact attitude
of thought of our present registrants towards our
program, and the degree of their desire for its ful­
fillment.
The members of the Pacific Coast Division of
316 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
The International Registration Bureau will take a
leading part in the educational work which will
soon be started. Many thousands of them will—
within the following few months— be invited to
“ permanently” engage in this work, and adequate
compensation will be arranged for them in order
that they may be enabled to do so. But only such
persons as are firmly convinced of the desirability
of the economic system described in our textbook
“ Mankind United,” and are determined to exert
every possible effort toward its fulfillment, will be
invited to help lay the cornerstone of the organiza­
tion which will assume the responsibility for the
completion of the personnel required for the safe
release of a sufficient part of the Institute’s 30-day
program to bring about the preliminary establish­
ment of the Universal Service Corporation.
Although some millions of men and women are
now being trained for the “ DEFENSIVE” branch
of our activities, and will assume the responsibility
for delaying the “ simultaneous” operation of the
world’s juggernauts of war long enough for our
corporation to be established, yet only 20,000 per­
sons can be spared from our loyal group of regis­
trants for the performance of the duties connected
with building up the required personnel which
must be trained and ready to receive— and act upon
— the recommendations associated with the pre­
liminary formation of our corporation. These 20,-
000 persons will constitute a distinct branch of our
organization and will be known as “ THE PIO­
NEERS.” Though their activities will be of major
importance, they will be neither hazardous nor
particularly difficult. Nevertheless, a number of
years will be required for the completion thereof.
Those engaged in the “ defensive branch” of our
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 317
program will be selected largely from the Euro­
pean and Asiatic nations, and will enter upon their
duties with the full knowledge that they are risk­
ing their lives each day by delaying, preventing, or
interfering with the operation of the juggernauts
of war that are intended to crush out what little
bit of religious, educational or economic freedom
remains as part of our present—but rapidly disin­
tegrating— civilization.
Our past experience and records prove that for
each month of time made available to those of us
engaged in the educational (or building) branch of
our organization— (through delaying the centuries-
old plans of the world’s hidden rulers for a war of
extermination of the enlightened classes, and the
permanent enslavement of all hut a few of the
human heings who may survive that holocaust) —
some thousands of those engaged in the “ defensive”
branches of our program not only jeopardize but
also lose their lives.
When we think of the minor sacrifices of time,
effort, and the modest sums of money those of us
here on the Pacific Coast have made during the
past few years as our part towards the building of
this new economic system, and then realize that
with hut little additional effort on the part of our
registrants throughout the English-speaking na­
tions, our program might have been an actuality,
and the Universal Service Corporation in full opera­
tion during the year 1938, we marvel at the courage
and perseverence of the millions of men and women
who are now risking their lives each day that they
engage in the task of delaying the world war, and
thereby make available to us another twenty-four
hours of time in which to attempt to break the
318 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
mesmeric indifference of the citizens of such na­
tions as still grant the privileges of freedom of
speech and assembly.
It should not seem unreasonable— (in view of the
sacrifices assumed by those who are making it
possible for us to have additional time for the com ­
pletion of a “ dependable” membership)— for the
Institute to insist upon substantial indications of
sincerity of interest on the part of those who claim
to desire the establishment of the Universal Service
Corporation, and the building of an economic sys­
tem such as is described in the book “ Mankind
United.” Nor will it be difficult to understand why
no further registrations will now be accepted from
any but such persons as are willing to meet the
minimum requirements consisting of the formation
of a program center.
Due to the miserably weak excuses of the m il­
lions of persons who “ pretended” an interest in
our program, but who— (when asked to actively
help us to complete our required membership and
thereby make possible the safe release of the 30-day
program which must precede the formation of our
corporation)— so entirely failed the portion of the
membership that has been “ sincerely striving” for
the consummation of our ideals. . . . and due-—
finally— to their last minute failure to even pass
the simple requirements which would qualify them
to become officially registered as members of our
world-wide audience, this reorganization o f our
various registration departments has become neces­
sary.
The “ defensive” branches of our organization be­
lieve that the weight of their influence is sufficiently
great to outweigh the combined power of the
world’s subversive forces, and to thwart the loyal
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 319
agencies of the hidden rulers known as “ Capital­
ism, Communism, Fascism, and Naziism,”-—in their
plans of world conquest— for many years to come,
even though the membership of our group was
never increased beyond our present numbers. It
should be borne in mind that we are now sup­
ported by millions of men and women through­
out the European and Asiatic nations who have
volunteered for the type of training which will
enable them to indefinitely delay a world war,
and to localize— (to a large extent)-— any con­
flict that might occur within the area now com­
prising the European and Asiatic nations. In
view of this fact our Statistical departments have
carefully weighed the merits of a rapid drive for
membership, against the merits of a more gradual
building up of the necessary official or executive
personnel which will be required in a supervisory
capacity during our 30-day program, as well as in
an executive capacity during the first six months
of the operation of the Universal Service Corpora­
tion.
It has been said that “ A QUITTER NEVER
WINS AND A WINNER NEVER QUITS.” Since
our Statistical departments’ studies show a surpris­
ingly large percentage of the type of thought within
our world membership which indicates the qualities
of both the “ QUITTER” and the “ PROCRASTI­
NATOR” , and as a result would make necessary
the registration of approximately 125,000,000 more
men and women before an assured audience of
200,000,000 “ RIGHT-THINKING” and “ DEPEND­
ABLE” persons could be made available for the
safe release of the Institute’s program, it has been
deemed advisable to direct the efforts of all Pacific
Coast Division registrants— (who are willing, upon
the receipt of this announcement, to indicate their
320 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
continued co-operation with u s)-—
towards the
selection of 200,000 men and women who have the
ability and the desire to receive sufficient training
to qualify them to act in supervisory or executive
capacities; . . . both during the world-wide election
and after the corporation is formed. To each of
these 200,000 “ DISTRICT SUPERVISORS” there
will be delegated the responsibility— during the
30-day program— of directing the men and women
in charge of 25 election booths and program cen­
ters. From this group of 200,000 supervisors there
will also be selected a sufficient number of men and
women who will have been previously trained by
our organization to fill most of the executive posi­
tions during the first six months of the corpora­
tions’ activities, pending the election of executives
under the corporation charter.
These 200,000 men and women will be selected
in the United States of America. . . . not because
there is no other country which grants its people
the privileges of free speech and assembly, nor be­
cause of the fact that the world’s subversive influ­
ences are any less aggressive here than in any other
liberty-loving nation, nor because the people of
America are any more “ enlightened” or any less
“ bigoted” than the citizens of any other country,
. . . but solely because of the fact that, throughout
recent generations, millions of people from all of
the world’s great nations have settled in America.
Therefore, these 200,000 men and women will
represent a cross-section of the world’s various
major nations and languages, and will also under­
stand the customs of its many classes of inhabitants,
and consequently be more readily enabled to act in
supervisory capacities.
Here in America, the Sponsors of The Interna-
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 321
tional Institute of Universal Research and Adm ini­
stration believe that— with your help— they can
find 200,000 right-thinking, clean-living, high-prin­
cipled men and women of each of the great nations
who can read and write English, and who will be
willing to undergo the necessary training which
will enable them to participate (in an executive
capacity) in the establishment of an economic sys­
tem based upon practical idealism instead of the
“ jungle law” of selfishness and brute force. Our
Sponsors believe— as Christ Jesus taught— that the
Kingdom of Heaven (the promised land) is “ here
at hand” , and ready to be fully enjoyed at any time
that men are willing to live in obedience to His
teachings and precepts. They also believe that
there are 200,000 men and women in the United
States who are ready to start “ living” as well as
“ preaching” those precepts, and are willing “ to live
and to let live” , AND NOT JUST TALK ABOUT
I T !!!
The Pacific Coast Division of The International
Registration Bureau has been given the responsi­
bility of arranging for the selection and training of
these 200,000 men and women. W e believe that
here in the West is to be found an exceptionally
high percentage of the sturdy dependable type of
thought of which “ PIONEERS” are formed. Such
kinds of persons do not quit any worthy task until
it is “ successfully” completed. W E ARE THERE­
FORE GOING TO PRESENT TO YOU, IN THE
FOLLOWING FEW PARAGRAPHS, THE PROB­
LEM WHICH NOW CONFRONTS US. UPON
THE SHOULDERS OF 20.000 OF OUR LOYAL
REGISTRANTS (INCLUDING SUCH PERSONS
IN OTHER STATES OR COUNTRIES WHO
HAVE REGISTERED THROUGH OUR PACIFIC
322 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
COAST BUREAUS) WE HAVE BEEN ASKED
TO PLACE THE RESPONSIBILITY FOR PRO­
VIDING THE “ CORNERSTONE” (CONSISTING
OF BOTH PERSONAL AND FINANCIAL CO­
OPERATION) FOR THE ORGANIZATION
STRUCTURE W HICH WE MUST ERECT DUR-
ING THE FOLLOWING FEW MONTHS.
From December 25th, 1940, to June 25th, 1941,
such members of this Pioneer group as may
wish to do so, will be given the opportunity of de­
voting part of their spare time to the work which
they would be expected to engage in as full time
co-workers of this organization. This will enable
them to decide whether or not they desire to with­
draw from their present vocations.
All members of the Pioneer group who decide
to devote either their full time— or part time— to
this activity should communicate with their local
bureau manager and act upon the instructions con­
tained in the “ Application for Training” form #98,
and the directions they will receive during the six-
lesson course of training described therein.
A general does not send a detailed description
of his armaments, the position of his army, nor
the place nor the time of his contemplated attack,
to his enemies. Neither shall our Research depart­
ments, at this time, release such information as
would forewarn the subversive forces regarding the
date or place of our attack— in other words the
details pertaining to the release of our world-wide
30-day program. However, we are now able to
announce that a sufficient part of the 30-day pro­
gram, and enough power in the form of inventions
and discoveries will be placed in the hands of this
organization’s registrants “ before” December 25th,
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 323
1951, to enable them to establish the Universal
Service Corporation, and to guarantee its successful
operation. No one is authorized— nor will be
authorized— to indicate any earlier date of release
of this program unless every center manager “ simul­
taneously” receives a written announcement rela­
tive thereto accompanied by a key and chart to
certain coded information contained in the book
“ Mankind United.”
Our Statistical departments are at this time—
(based upon the known “ dependable” elements of
our mem bership)— able to guarantee the release
of a portion of our program and the accomplish­
ment of the results referred to in the previous
paragraph, by December 25th, 1951. Further than
this they would not state until after December 25th,
1940, at which time it was hoped that the “ PIO­
NEER” spirit of our Pacific Coast bureaus and
registrants would have justified a further announce­
ment relative thereto. (However, since less than
one-tenth of the 25,000 registrants to ivhom this in­
vitation was extended have accepted it— and be­
com e “Pioneers” — no change of said date is yet
possible.)
The registrants of all Pacific Coast bureaus were
invited to become center managers prior to Decem­
ber 25th, 1940, and all center managers are still re­
quested to retain their supply of copies of our
textbook Mankind United “ intact” .
The following paragraphs relative to qualifying
as a member of our Pacific Coast PIONEER “ COR­
NERSTONE” GROUP ■
— (which will be limited to
exactly 20,000 registrants)— will explain the re­
quirements connected therewith. All Pacific Coast
councilors, lecturers, bureau managers, center man-
324 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
agers, and teachers, are invited to become members
of this Pioneer group. However, we will be unable
to continue extending this invitation after it has
been accepted by 20,000 of said persons, since the
group is limited to “ exactly” this number, and will
never be enlarged.
In order that we may meet the expenses con­
nected with the establishment of the necessary
facilities for selecting the 200,000 district super­
visors which we have been instructed to appoint,
and in order that our local branch bureaus may
establish the financial reserves needed for the con­
tinuation of their activities, each member of the
Pioneer group is required to purchase— at a price
of $100.00 per hook— one copy of the 20,000 PIO­
NEERS’ “ CORNERSTONE” EDITION of the re­
vised textbook. This first printing of the revised
edition of “ Mankind United” includes the coded
information contained in the previous editions.
40% of your payments on the “ Cornerstone” edi­
tion were retained by your local bureau to assist in
meeting the expenses associated with conducting
its activities. 60% of your payments were used
by the various headquarter’s departments of the
Pacific Coast Division of The International Regis­
tration Bureau. The only accounting that will be
made for the expenditure of said sums will be to
our Sponsors, inasmuch as it is essential that such
influences as are antagonistic to our program he
prevented from anticipating the steps we will be
instructed to take, and from later tracing said steps.
Your admission into the Pioneer group and your
purchase of one of these 20,000 copies of “ Mankind
United” (as a condition of your acceptance as a
member thereof) is dependent upon your willing­
ness to agree to make no effort— nor become a party
M A N K I N D U N I T E D 32?
to any action— to ascertain the nature of such ex­
penditures.
It should be understood by each “ Pioneer” that
no more than one copy of said edition may be
purchased by any one person, and if lost or stolen—
after having once been delivered— it can never be
replaced nor can a second copy be obtained. Orders
must be placed in the name of “ one” person only.
Husbands and wives are considered as individuals
on our records and should place separate orders.
Only by so doing can they each have membership
in said “ Pioneer” group.
(over)
326 M A N K I N D U N I T E D
As a member of our Pioneer “ Cornerstone” group you
are asked to assist us in locating— as quickly as pos­
sible— at least ten persons who could be given the train­
ing which will enable them to act at this time as teachers,
and later in a supervisory capacity during our 30-day
program. Only through such immediate co-operation
on the part of each and everyone of our “ Pioneers” will
the “ Cornerstone” be firmly laid, and without delay.
Although only a small number of those who were
invited to enter the ranks of our “ Pioneer” group have
had the necessary qualities of vision, moral courage, and
generosity, with which to accept and act upon the oppor­
tunity thus offered, nevertheless, we believe that those
of you who have done so will demonstrate sufficient
unity and singleness of purpose for the laying of our
“ Cornerstone” and the fulfillment of our mutual hope.
We pray that all mankind may some day soon join us
in thanking you— by their co-operation as well as by
their words— for the many proofs of your unsurpassed
loyalty to the Institute’s ideals and program.
“ U n i t e d l y ” Y o u k s ,
D e p a r t m e n t “ A ”— (P a c if ic C o a s t D i v i s i o n )
o f
T h e I n t e r n a t io n a l R e g is t r a t io n B u r e a u
This numbered copy of the 20,000 Pioneers’ “ Corner­
stone” edition of our textbook “ Mankind United” ivas
delivered to you through your local bureau.
T H E B E A C O N B U R E A U
P O S T O F F I C E B O X 2 8 3
S A N D I E G O , C A L I F O R N I A
Branch #A A -15262 of The International Registration Bureau
A Note on the Text and Its Variants
Collation and comparison of the “Pioneer’s ‘Cornerstone’” edition of Mankind United with the
ordinary edition of the text (the “Sixth Edition,” which should be understood to mean the sixth
impression of the first edition) reveal that the claim that the “Pioneer’s ‘Cornerstone’” edition is
“revised” (a claim made in the text itself) is accurate only insofar as:
1. it contains footnotes not found in the ordinary edition: on pages 250, 251, 253, 254,
259, 260, 265, 267, 284, 285, [286], 296 and 300. These footnotes are with one
exception (on p. 250) all substantially the same, noting that material in the text “does
not apply to this ‘Pioneer’ edition.”
2. Pages 310 and 311 are textually different. Exemplars of the ordinary edition text follow
this note.
3. Pages 311 and 312 are completely different. Exemplars of the ordinary edition text
follow this note. The ordinary edition ends on page 312, whereas the “Pioneer’s
‘Cornerstone’” edition continues as in this digital facsimile.
In all other respects, the “Pioneer’s ‘Cornerstone’” edition appears to use the same plates as
the ordinary edition.
