{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__anonymous___mentalphysics_treatise_three_the_mystery_supreme.pdf","mytitle":"Mentalphysics Treatise Three The Mystery Supreme","mylang":"de"}
************
TREATISE NO. 3
The Mystery
S••pre111e
IN ENGLAND, SEVERAL DECADES AGO, A BOY WAS BORN. He
came and his mother went . There was no rejoicing.
About the same time, in the forbidden land of Tibet, in a temple
in the heart of inscrutable Asia, wise men were mourning the passing
of 'a beloved brother lama, and mourning still more his infraction of
their rigid code of conduct - an error which they held to be the psychic
caUse of his death. Believers in re-incarnation, however, they . confi-
dently expect~d his return before the passing of many years.
· ·Though the two events took place on opposite sides of the world,
though none imagined their connection at the time, though the one
group spoke English, and the other an ancient Asiatic tongue, though ·
the .one was West and the other East, there was a link-it was orda ined
that in the boy just born the twain should at last meet. · The boy's name
was Edwin John Dingle. ·
At that time, the land of Tibet was practically a complete mys tery
to white men . Sheltered behind the highest mountains in the world,
reached only by long, hazardous journeys through the most difficult
terrain known, where fierce blizzards above timberline and intermin-
able awesome precipices met the daring adventurer, the country pre-
sented a forbidding problem to the would-be explorer. Still more for-
bidding was the attitude of its rulers, who invariably turned back at
its doors the few intrepid Occidentals who braved the obstacles with
which Nature guarded · this strange land. Marco Polo, in the day s of
Kublai Khan, some eight hundred years ago, thrilled the Western world
with a spectacular story of his adventures in Tibet, being probably the
first European ever to penetrate into this country - and he was followed
by very, very few other Europeans up to the birth of the boy in England.
In other respects, also, this forbidden land was unique. Due to the
barriers which Nature had given, it was the only land in the world
which had enjoyed peace for thousands of years, for as far back as
t;-,
ere is any record. It was the only country where the people and insti-
tutions could develop simply and naturally, could pursue the better
-(2)-
things of life, and probe the riddles of the ages, without interruption
by war or conquest, without the gains of one generation being destroyed
in the next. Wise were its leaders, during these many centuries, in
keeping unsympathetic strangers out. \.Viser, by far, than Western
rulers , who are letting the monster of war and class hatred destroy
civilization.
But there were certain strangers from Oriental countries who were .
always welcome in this mystic land. These were not the war-lords, or
the commercial adventurers, oi; the high and mighty of the earth; nor
indeed any whose lif e was confined to material things . But only those
great souls whose humble liv es were devoted to things of th e spirit, the
searchers after the truth of life and the relationship between man and
the Infinite-especially when, by an austere life of self-denial and self-
sacrifice, profound thought and great spiritual attainment, they had
shown their - worthiness to be admitted to the - mysteries preserved ·
through countless ag es from the dim beginnings of man's enlight en -
ment. For here was the Rome of Asia; not in a material way-but in a
spiritual sense. To this very da y-in China, India, Siam, Burma, and
even in Japan-ad epts and seers who have reached the pinnacle of.
spiritual understanding turn to this Mecca of Eastern Wisdom, make
a pilgrimage, when possible, to Tibet, that they might taste of the
surpassing knowledge in the keeping of a small group of wise men, the
latest of an unbroken chain of sages extending back for thousands of
years to the very dawn of history . · ·
The mental and spiritual attainments of these wise men are almost
beyond belief.
Well-known, responsible, and highly respected authors and educa-
tors have told of men controlling the heat of their bodies, raising one
part to .fever heat, reducing others t9 a low temperature, with the
rlOwer alone of thought - or the ·power t)lat .thought awakens . They
tell of men sitting naked in below zero weather for hour upon hour,
and maintaining the entire .body at such a fever heat that snow and
ice around them are melted . They tell of men running from one place
to another at a speed apparently impossible by physical means, holding
fierce wild animals at bay 'Yith a glance. For hours at a time, som e
seem able to live without perceptible breathing . Captain Yeats-Brown
tells of one who sat erect for forty -two days without food or drink,
without bowel or kidney movements, in the state known an "samadhi." ·
Though ·his limbs were ·rigid upon his being awakened, half an hour
later he was able to walk away, apparently uninjured by the experienc e. ·
These wonders seem to be a\ 1thentieated by reliable testimon:Y, and
the founder of Mentalphysics, which is the name given to the philo-
sophy which Edwin J. Dingle teaches. has himself witnessed many of
these strange occurrences. Though, in view of the fact that such thing:,;
are not generally believed, he rarely speaks about them.
Other wonders, sueh as transferring their bodies across deep
chasms by means of mind power alone, disappe aring right before men's
eyes, and appearing full view in one place, even speaking, when
their actual bodies are miles away, are not so well authenticated. A
number of writers whose word cannot be questioned declare they hav e
seen these marvels.
Many trav elers unanimously are agreed, however, that these seers
possess remarkable powers of control over their minds, and their bodies, ·
that they are profound thinkers with strange spiritual insight. This .
applies ; of course, only to the higher lamas-not to those of low er
status, or the populac e in general. The latter are tolerantly permitted
to follow any sup erstiti ous belief they choose. The pearls are not cast
before those incapable of appreciating them. Only a few earnest seekers
are initiated into the secret wisdom, and then only when they have
demonstrated their worthiness .through a period of years. The wisdom
- (3)-
c,f the Inner Circle is austere, devoid of the superstition of the masses
c,f Asia, profundly philosophical, the highest pinnacle of thoug ht the
,vorld has ever attained. And the powers which this wisdom brings
1hem, powers which no other modern philosophy giv es, demonstr ates its
: upreme truth. Th ose few Europeans who have been given access to
it aver that ·no philosophy of the West compares with it in bea uty, in
J,ower, and in giving what ap pears to be the fin al ans wer to the Riddle
1,f the Universe . What these sag es teach is, indeed, the basis of mystic
Christianity. The l<nowledge they impart is in m any respects similiar to
1hat knowledge which Jes us the Mast er imparted to his disciple s, and
: .bout which Sain t Paul wrote in su ch a classical manner as not fully
i o be understood by the uninitiated even today.
II.
Whence came this great wisdom?-this lore that cannot be given
t< the multitude, because it is beyond the multitude 's comprehension.-
ti is thought tha t must necessarily be confined to the select few mem-
tc lly and spiritually capable of reaching its prodigious height,- these
p >wers and secrets which the occult schools of many lands and many
a res have been seeking in vaix:i? And why is this wisdom cen tered
ir Tibet?
For the answer to these qu estions, we shall have to go back beyond
t 1e dawn of history. Sixty thousand years ago, according to some
scholars, a white people, now called Indo-Europeans or Aryans, in-
,J-abited the vicinity of what is now Pamir in Siberia . They were a
roble race~the forefathers of European civilization, as well as the
c lvilization of India. Their language, their grammatical forms, persist
t >this day in English, in Latin, in classi cal Greek, in German , in the
Scandinavian tongues, in the ancient Sanskrit of India and Tibe t. For
s )me re ason lost in the dim reaches of th e pas t, this noble people scat-
t,:red. Part emi grated West, and became Germ ans and Scandina vians,
part settled in pr ehisto ric Gre ece and Ital y, and later established the
great civili zation which flourished th ere. Through the Danes , the
Angles and Saxons, and lat er the Norm ans who conquer ed Englanct,
tlte modern Englishman and American are Indo-Europeans, desc endants
o '.that noble ori gin al race . Part of the -original people moved sout h and
e ~st, establishing the gre at civilizations of Persia and India. Accord-
ii 1
g to philologists, the common ancestral language from which modern
and classical Indo-European languages sprang, existed at least twe lve
tl 1ousand years ago, and showed at th at time the high development
o: a superior race.
What was the secret of this great race?
Why was it later to take the leadership of the world?
In Europe and America, it is responsible for the great strides of
m >dern science and technological civilization. In ancient Greece, it
developed a poetic and artistic genius that has never since been
equalled. In Greece, too, and in India, it reached the highest summit of
th mght and philosophy-austere immensities, beautiful concept ions,
penetration of ultimate uuth so profound as to amaze modern thin kers.
These white cousins of ours, the Aryans, some thousands of years
ai:o invaded India from the North. The exact date is still a my stery.
B11t in the dim beginning of history, we find them , true to their noble
traditions, the rulers of the country, kindly, civilized, but careful as
a1e their modern cousins - English!llen, Germans, Ameri\:!ans-to keep
their white blood pure . To this end, they had established a rigid caste
S) stem, to prevent marriage between the white ruling classes an d the
d1tsky aborigines of India. In the march of the centuries, this caste
Sj stem failed of its purpose, and today only a few of the nobles and
p1inces of India are pure white .
- (4)-
In the times of the Vedas, variously estimated at 3500 to 8500
years ago, we find these benign, cultured, thoughtful people, stm pure
white-developing a philosophy-showing unique concern for spiritual
matters, for truth, beauty and social progress. More, they tolerantly
fostered religious freedom and indep endence of thought; contemplation
of the riddles of life became a ruling passion . Two thousand years
before Copernicus, they discovered that the earth was round, that the
sun never sets. Some scholars trace to them the invention of algebra
and the beginnings of astronomy. ·
Among their amazing discoveries were two which quickly show
how far in advance of their times these great men were. These two
most profound steps forward were these:
1. That matter is not what it appears to be-that its solid
appearance is just an illusion.
2. That within us is a subconscious mind, tremendous in power,
distinct from our conscious minds, our intellects.
Only recently have we in the West made these discoveries. We
have just learned that the atom is in itself a comparatively empty
space with a few electrons whirling around a proton like the planets
around the sun, and that matter is a form of energy-that in the
material universe all is just a form of energy and that nothing is what
it appears to be. We have just learned that our intellects, our con-
scious minds, are but the surface ripples of the vast unconscious
within us.
·other Discoveries Made
What giant intellects these white cousins of ours in ancient India
must have had to discover this twenty-five hundred or three thousand
years ago! But they made still greater discoveries. Whereas we in
the West applied our thought to outward and material things, these
sages knew all this to be an illusion, applied their thoughts to inward
things, searched their own souls, probed the subconscious mind for the
secrets of the universe. They became masters of applied psychology -
acquired a proficiency in it that, even today, baffles our scientists of
the West. They discovered that looking within was the shortest road
to wisdom, and thus were three thousand years ahead of the Western
thinker who looked to the outer world for his knowledge. They devel-
oped powers of concentration, will, vision and inspiration, powers which
manifest themselves in seeming miracles unexplainable even today to
Western minds. They reached heights of thought and understanding of
the Cause of all things - possible of comprehension only after training
in their methods-mysteries too deep to be put into mere words, which
may be .known only l;>ybeing experienced.
Suc)l power - for good or evil-did this knowledge give, that the
sages carefully guarded it from the unworthy. Especially did they
safeguard their methods of training. What could be vouchsafed to
the public was disclosed in the Upanishads, the Bhagavad Gita, the
teachings of the Buddha, and various other classics, written in San -
skrit, the language held by scholars to be the purest known form of
that mother tongue of the Indo-Europeans of twelve thousand years
ago-the language closest to the original tongue of the American, the
Englishman, the German and the Greek; the language reaching farther
back into the ages than any other, so far as can be known today.
For several hundred years this wisdom flourished, and India flour-
ished. Abstract wisdom united with practical psychology. Only today
are we in the West beginning to understand what they knew then of
the powers and functions of our minds. And they learned to apply this
knowledge to the problems of life, to the strengthening of character
-(5)-
and personality, to mastery of circumstance and their physil;.Al well-
bei11g, in ways which even yet are little known in the West.
But the inevitable happened. Every civilization, sooner or la ter,
goe; into decline . The noble blood of the proud, intelligent Aryans be-
came less and less pure, leavened with that of their dusky subjects.
Wa ·, over-population, turmoil and strife took their toll. Like many
ano ther originally beautiful philosophy, the wisdom was changed by
priEsts to suit their own ends. Wise men, who scoffed at idols, were
themselves worshipped as idols a few hundred years later. Because
the multitude could not be won with stern and abstract conceptions
above its comprehension, superstitions and incantations were add ed; ·
so t at -certain great religious organizations flourishing in India, China,
and Japan today are but caricatures of the marvelous original wisdom, ·
usi 1tg the names of great seers and sages in vain-and India itself sank
int< the mire of ignorance and depravity characterizing great sections
of it today.
III.
Amid all these changes, was the great original wisdom saved?
Yes--thanks to that land which was free of strife and war-Tibet,
prot cted by Nature · herself with barriers insurmountable to the greed
. and war lust of surrounding nations. Here, men of Mongolian extr ac-
tion we re to preserve for the Indo-European the original wisdom of his
own white race, to be ·given back when he showed himself ready for
it, cr when, as now, the barriers of Nature seem no longer sufficient
to J:rotect the sanctuary.
In Indfa, the secret wisdom was passed along from master to ·
pup l, from wise man to wise man, for countless ages, beginning, per-
hap l, six or seven thousand years ago. Thus, through an unbroken
cha in of wise men, a chain that had its ·beginning before the dawn of ·
moc ern history, the priceless knowledge was saved for use. Before the
cha in was broken, before the wisdom was too much changed by the
vici :;situdes of India, one of this chain of wise men, about twelve hun-
dr ec years ago, established himself in Tibet.
. The name of that link in the chain who brought the wisdom to
Tib ~t twelve hundred years ago was Padma Sambhava, professor at a
gre 1t university in India and a man famous throughout the country
for his mastery of the occult. With him he b·rought old manuscripts,
sec ret documents of various kinds written in Sanskrit, that ancient ori~
gin 11 language of the Aryan-many of which were hidden with mystic
cen monies for a future age when mankind was to be prepared for
the under~tanding of their mysteries . He brought with him, also , it
is said, eight sages, each an adept in a different branch of the wisdom.
And from that day to this, suci;eeding groups of wise men in unbroken
chain have preserved and practiced the original wisdom of the Aryans
of India - much · of it too sacred and too potent to be written, spiritual
revelations of astounding power only to be disclosed in secret and by
word of mouth to those rare sages considered worthy of the trust~a
small group in each generation.
For twelve hundred years, one group succeeded another in the land
of Tibet, each passing along to the next the potent wisdom, until the
time, a few score years ago, when the boy was born in England and
the latest group of these wise men were looking forward to the return
of the brother lama who had just passed away. Did they foresee that
this boy, born on the other side of the world, descended from the same
11oble and superior Indo-European race which had produced the wisdom
they cherished, was later to visit their land and be welcomed as the
reincarnation of their deceased brother lama? Did they exert their
strange occult powers to draw this boy from the other side of the
world, to mould his life and his desires in such a fashion that he was
-(6) -
irresistibly, fatefully, unce asingly constrained to turn his thoughts and
footsteps toward the Far Ea st? · . · ,
No one knows but th ey- and th ey hav e kept the secret. But the
boy, from earliest years , was fa scinated by everything pertaining to
mystic Asia. Map s entr anced him , geography was his chief interest, and
the longing to visit remote and ancient countries was overwhelming.
IV.
Gradually he absorbed the spiritual, scientific and materialistic
culture of the West, as well as its enterprise, ambition, and physical
and mental efficiency-little aware of the great enterprises that lay
ahead for the years to unfold. One branch of his studies during his
apprenticeship, to his great delight, was the preparation and printing
of maps, so that his predilection for geography, for probing into the
mysteries of far lands, thus found its earliest outlet.
Grown to manhood, Edwin J. Dingle acted for a short time as a
reporter for various English newspapers, traveling in the British West
Indies and elsewhere. Meantime, true to the inner impulse which turned
his tho~ghts always toward the East, he looked for and found his op-
portunity. After competitive examinations, he was selected for a posi-
tion in Singapore. With high heart he set out upon the long journey. A
strange feeling came over him as the ship neared his destination. In-
stead of going toward a strange land, he seemed to be coming home
after a long journey. Here he joined the staff of a newspaper - the Straits
Times. He entered wi th vigor into the lif e of the foreign colony, as any
young man would . He made a success of his job. Opportunities in other
fields were open to him as to any enterprising Englishman of that day
and time. The world was crying for the products of the East, soon
rubber was to make prodigious fortunes for many of his friends. China
was to establish the Open Door. Money seemed to flow like water.
· But the feverish life of the foreign colony soon lost its attraction
for the young -.man. Among various races of the East which poured
through this tr ansfer point of Asia , he noticed certain individuals who
appeared to have a calm strength superior to the n ervous energy of
the European. When in their presence, he felt as if they had some source
of power unknown to the frenzied circl e of Occidentals. They could be
happy without excitement, successful without worry, enterprising with-
out fear, courageous without bluster, apparently unconc erned with the
business of living or making a living, but quietly efficient and capable
nevertheless . , . .
One of these thought-provoking individuals worked in the printing
plant. There seemed something mysterious about him, as if he were
a great man in disguise, occupying his humble position only for a time .
The deference accorde .d him by other employees confirmed the impres-
sion. The young Englishman found himself extending to this sage an
involuntary respect, an unconscious reverence. He found himself, also,
doing favors for the mystic, establishing a friendship that gave gen-
uine satisfaction.
One day the sage asked young Dingle to come to a nearby temple
at a certain hour in the evening, to witness an important ceremony.
He went. Presently, in a corner of the temple courtyard , he saw pieces
of iron being he ated in a forg e. In another corner was the sage, almost
naked, going through breathin g exercises such as the young man had
never before seen. As Mr. Dingle says, "It was the first time I had
ever seen a m a n really breath e."
After a time, the attendants at the forge came across to the sage,
carrying with tongs two red-hot pieces of iron , upon which iron straps
were riveted. They knelt at the feet of the sage, and placed the pieces
of iron beneath his feet , securing the straps over his insteps and around
his ankles. While the young man looked on in amazement, his friend
- <1r-
then walked (>lowly across the courtyard and back In what he now
saw were red-hot ·sanclals. Returnea to the starting point, the sage ·
sat down , while the attendants quicldy removed the sandals. Fearful
that his friend had been hurt, the young man hastened across to him,
but could observe no inJury. Hardly able to believe what he saw , he
put his finger on the iron to see if it were really hot, and burned him-
self severely. Though this happened several decades ago, to this day
the scar of that burn may be seen · on the finger of Mr. Dingle .
The skeptical niay say that the young man was hypnotized, a nd
merely thought -he saw an thi~. But -
many other travelers in the Far
East report seeing similar: incidents. Recently an Eastern mystic
walked through a fire trench in London, observed by many newspaper
men. Another mystic -visited New York City, and repeated the per·
formance before -'huridreds of people. Photographs were published and
motion pictures made. Newspaper reporters published accounts of the
performance. It is. hard to believe that the cameras were hypnoti zed,
even if the people were. ·
From that day forward, the young man became a disciple of the
Sage of Singapore. He was instructed in certain methods and practices.
He sought knowledge c,f the teachings of the East wherever he could
find it, in books, manuscripts, from well-known mystics, and in tem-
ples. After he reached a certain point, however, the sage refused to
teach him further unless he made a long pilgrimage. At first this
requirement seemed insuperable. The young man, bred in Europe, could
not look with -Oriental equanimity upon giving up his splendid posi tion,
a,,;.\ his brilliant prospects. These were no light matters. But the sage
··,: {or guru, as teachers are called in the East) was adamant.
The influences which had guided the young man's predelictions
from childhood finally prevailed. True, however, to his practical Euro-
pean training, he sought for a way to make his pilgrimage self-support-
ing. The Boxer Uprising having been suppressed, the eyes of the world
were upon China. He decided to make his pilgrimage in the remote
interior of that country, sections which at that time were little known,
and to syndicate the story of his travels · in newspapers throughout
the world . Thus he was able to .provide himself with a caravan for
the journey, pack animals and natives to accompany him. The animals
wer e used for supplies . cameras, instruments, the requirements being
that the young man should travel on foot after reaching the interior.
This he did, except for short boat trips, and an occasional ride to the
next town when injur ed or sick.
V.
The story of that pilgrimage is partly described in "Across China
on Foot," a book written by Mr. Dingle, first published in 1911, now
reprinted as part of another book, "Borderlands of Eternity." Though
his trip was undertaken during the chaos following the Boxer Upris ing,
through many sections where a white man had never befo re been seen,
though he had many hairbreadth escapes from bandits and twice from
tigers, Mr. Dingle never carried a gun. He suffered from broken limbs,
tropical 'diseases. Several times he recuperated in temples in the re-
mote west of China, pursuing, meantime, his search for the Inner Wis-
dom, advancing always in his understanding of esoteric methods. The
pilgrimage was a long one. Arrived in Upper Burma, almost dead from
the hardships he h::td undergone, he saw his teacher again, and was
t_?ld "They are waiting for you .in Tibet"-nothing more.
Arranirements had already been made for Mr. Dingle's transpor-
tation to Rangoon, and thence to England. It was doubtful whe ther
h<: would live to complete the journey. It was almost certain tha t h~
-/8) ,_
could not survive the arduous trip to Tibet, over mountain passes more
than three miles above sea level, exposed to cold and fierce storms,
and with, in that day, practically no conveniences for travelers.
How powerful must have been the influences which impelled him
to undertake the almost hopeless journey! True, Tibet, in the heart
of ageless Asia, had been his dream since boyhood. That isolated spot
on the map had always fascinated him. Wondrous were the tales about
it which he had heard in various temples . Intriguing were the con- :
jectures of the books he had read, for, at t)1at time, the country was
practically a complete mystery to Occidentals . The Younghusband Ex-
pedition, by which England had attempted to invade the country in
the nineties, had been unaccountably turned back without a battle. Its
rulers forbade the presence of white men in any of its sacr ·ed cities.
"Forbidden Tibet" was the name the world had given the mysterious
land. Even the most daring man in the best of health migli.t have been
·deterred .from an undertaking fraught with great hardships, danger,
and uncertainty. But a caravan was hastily assembled and Edwin John
Dingle set out upon the journey. .
Entering Tibet from the East, the young man had not gone far
before a strange feeling came upon him. Scenes were vaguely familiar.
It seemed as if he had traveled this route before. Every day this feeling
grew stronger. He could anticipate the scenes which would greet him
as he turne ,d the next bend of the trail. Finally, he arrived before
the entrance of a temple. Every stone was familiar to him . A feeling
of great relief and contentment came over him, as if, after many years,
he had finally arrived at the memory -cherished home of his boyhood.
As he entered with awe the strangely familiar temple, the young
man's overwrought body at last collapsed a1together . For four days and
four nights he rem_
ained unconscious. On the fifth mornin g he awak-
ened, the crisis past. As his eyes opened, there stood, between him and
the doorway, a benign old man . ·
v~..
Presently the tN man said, "Art thou glad to be back?"
The young man was so confused that the question was repeated.
Then he replied - "Glad to be back ... glad to be back-Back Where?''
The young man knew that never in his lifetime had he been in
this place before.
Finally the sage explained that in a former lifetime the young
man had been one of the lamas in this very temple. He and the old
man had been boys together. In his former lifetime the young man ·
had disobeyed the rules of the order and had met a violent death. He
had been reborn in England, while his boyhood companion had lived
on at the Temple. Hence the young man's fateful urge to be always
on the move until he came to rest at last in this ancient Tibetan Temple.
Whether or not all this was true, th e young man did not actually
know , at the time. Whether he has since learn ed that it was true, is
something he willprobably never tell. "Have no tongue" is the pre cept
of the East regarding certain sacred matters. But, whether true or not,
the sage believed it, and therefore welcomed the young man as th e
cherished friend of his boyhood , giving the greatest gift in his power
- wisdom of the Inner Circle in Tibet which had been cJ-:erished for
thousands of years. Fortunate was the young man; otherwise he woul d
have received only the elementary view with which most other visitors
to Tibet must be content. Even more fortunate was he that this par-
ticular sage had a personal interest ln and a love for him. In Tibet,
as in all other coutries, the truly wise ones are few and far between.
Here as elsewhere, many are called, but few are chosen. Among the
- (9)-
lamas themselves, Jew are those who may .be called "masters." Indeed,
every resident in a lamasery is called a lama, some ·of ,them being
mere laborers and artizans.
The young man, living in that Tibetan temple, found his years of
previous study and practice of the mystic wisdom of the East had pre-
pared him for the "post-graduate" teaching wliich was now given him.
Nevertheless, as the time for leaving approached, he was profoundly
shocked when his master said-
"THERE WILL COME A TIME, MY SON, WHEN
NOTHING WILL CONTENT THEE BUT TO TEACH ."
For he felt wholly unprepared for . such a task. Wisdom brings
humility. His wise master knew that he was unprepared; but after
many years more of study and practice, during which the wisdom
learned became a part of his very being, the time predicted finally
came "when nothing will content thee but to teach." Since 1927 that
has been his mission.
An Invitation to Yon
In 1914, now in business in Shanghai, Mr. Dingle, publish ed his
"New Map of China." The publication of this bi-lingual map at once
e_
stabli shed his reputation as a geographer. The '!New Map of China"
was an unqualified success, and . it at once became China'.s standard
map, used throughout the world.
Th.en he conc eived the idea of coordinating and correlating an ·
immense amount of dat a on geographical and economic conditions .in
China into the form of a gigantic gazetteer. He set to work, ga thez:ed
around him nearly a hundred correspondents all over China, and in 1918
there was isc;uen from his own firm in Shanghai, The Far Eastern
Geographical -Establishment , "Dingle's New Atlas and Commercial
Gazette er of China," a monumental work of some million and a qu arter
words a nd scores of technical maps, graphs, indices and so on-the
lar gest book that had ever been printed in China.
He also pu blished the "New Atlas and Commercial Gazetteer of
the Stra its Settl ements .and Federated Malay States"; established and
ed it ed a weekly journal in Shanghai called "China and Far East
Fi nance and Commerce," ofte n called the "Wall Street Journal of
Chi Ba," and wrote several other authoritative works.
We c,in thus understand that the years between his leaving the
Orient and his retirement to California in 1921 were very busy years.
-(10)- .
Meanwhile much of his time was given to further pursuit of. the W~
dom of the East, study in other temples and contact with other gre~
teachers, as well as to the daily practice of the methods he learne~.
AMAZING CHANGES IN STUDENTS
Today, Mr. Dingle's mission is to teach discerning seekers throt1gh-
out the world. The methods are simple and easily followed. A sp.ort
period of daily practice and the student is often amazed at the chang es
that occur-the indescribable experiences that result - the faith, <;our-
age, confidence and power - the improved healf\1, greater abiliti es, and
the success in material as well as in mental and spiritual ways which
often follow.
HOME-STUDY INSTRUCTION
Instruction in these methods is offered by The Institute of Mental-
physics, a school founded by Mr. Dingle, and devoted to the teaching
. of what is actually mystic Christianity, It offers Home Study, as well
as class Instruction. As in most other private -educational- establish ,
ments, tuition is required of students. Fortunately, the cost of instruc-
tion ·is nominal, due to the generosity of many grateful students who
give more than the customary tuition. Mr. Dingle personally supervises
the .educational program for _
students. · ·
30-DAY MONEY-BACK OFFER
Every reader of this booklet is invited to apply for instruction. As
the student practically enters a new wor~d of ideas and experieri'ces, it
is impossible to give an adequate description of the course . Only the
course itself · can reveal that new world. -Rather than give an inade -
quate description, we -
prefer ,to let the -course speak 'for itself . In such
circumstances, the only fair ·thing to do is to refund the enrollment fee ·
of those few students who find the teachings too unusual, possibly too
much at variance with customary modes of thought, for them to
accept. In all such cases, the enrollment donation is refunded - provided
the initial instructions are returned to The Institute within 30 days of
their receipt.
Fortunately, _ such cases are comparatively few. In Siam, Indi a,
South America, Africa, Australia, as well as in Europe and North
America, students of Mentalphysics are to be found. They now numb er
many thousands . "The sun never sets" on students of The Institute of
Mentalphysics, the First Church of Mystic ·Christianity.
Be one of them. Start to seek that "dominion" promised you by
the great prophets who knew whereof they spoke-over life and death,
- (11) -
over circumstances and fear, over success and failure, over dise ase and
want and frustration. Learn the Way of Power, of Joy, of Strength,
Victory and Peace. Enroll today!
IMPROVEMENT OF MIND
Recent scientific di1,coveries of the vast power of the unco nscious
mind show that within all of us is a great source of intellig ence, of
strength, of inspiration, sublime confidence and courage that can over-
come almost any obstacle, and make of ourselves and our ch aracters
what we will. The apparent miracles of faith, the great achiev ements
of people thus inspired, are demonstrations. But, with Western meth-
ods, too few people find themselves able to reach that vast Power
within . In the Orient, Mr. Dingle found easier methods, readily used
by any ordinarily intelligent person .
Through these methods, hundreds of students have foun d relief
from .fear, timidity , inferiority complexes, worry and variou s other
negative habits. Many report rapid increase of their talent s, their
abilities in their chosen fields of effort, gre ater acumen and mental
power-often resulting in better positions, increased incom e, and
enlarged oppor tunities.
IMPROVEMENT OF THE PHYSICAL BODY
Mentalphysics, in great measure, devotes itself to the development
of thP greatest bodily health and strength possible in the student.
Today, the power of mind over body is a commonplace-every student
of the modern psychology realizes that within us is a strength never
before realized, which can accomplish apparent miracles in the con-
quest of illness and the prolonging of life, in retaining youthful vigor
and handsomeness for many years longer, and even in rebuilding
weakened and invalided bodies.
But the Tibet an met hod of reaching this great power of the un-
conscious mind is far different from the methods used in the Western
world. They are many respects similar to the methods that th e early
Christian mystics used . After using these methods many of our stu-
dents report amazing results, never before achieved by other systems.
Even if you think you are in good health, try these methods an d learn
how much more vitally alive, how much stronger: how much more
immune to disease, how much more youthful, you CAN be. Learn
what it is to be master of a splendid physical body, ready to meet any
emergency that arises with indomitable courage and confidence, enjoy-
ing every moment of the long and victorious life it enables you to live .
BUILDING OF CHARACTER
Mastery of mind and body leads naturally to increased physical
and personal magnetism. Wh en you feel that within you is an uncon-
querable power, always awaiting your command, you really become
the splendid, admirable, divin ely capable person you ought to be. The
- (12)--
world stands ready to pay homage to such a person, to give Hs choicest
gifts of friendship and influence, and to follow such leadership. Poise
and charm, magnetism and character, are the natural attributes of one
who finally comes to know the real power within him.
SPIBITVAL DEVELOPMENT
Mentalphysics is not designed to take the place of your religion.
It is a method - not a creed. Most religions teach that there is a spark
of the Divine in every human being .' Mentalphysics enables many to
realize th is more clearly, to fee l THE PRESENCE of the Power Within,
by whatever name it is called. It draws the earnest student closer than
ever to the Supreme Power he worships , gives him a feeling of sublime
kinship with God and all the world, comforts him profound ly, inspires
him with hope, wjth confidence and with exalted ideals, ·and arouses in
him a deep reverence for and a boundless gratitude toward the Creator.
It tends to give him more faith than ever in a worthy religion, and leads
him to a conception of life and h_
is place in it that is unutterably beau-
tiful. It pn ;)Jnotes a deep feeling of JOY, which in itself has profound
effects upon the physical and mental man, and is the first essential or
inspired work and a magnetic character,
Mentalphysics Offered At
Minimum Cost
Though the benefits to be ex- time by notifying us to that effect.
pected from lV
Ientalphysics should By continuin g this monthly con-
be worth hundreds, even thou- tribution, you have the right of
sands of dollars, we , ask Initiates advancing in the Great Revelation
only for sufficient donations to as far as you desire to go. So long
carrv on the work. There is nee- as you remain a member, f o u r
essa1:ily expense incurred in record messages monthly will be mailed
keeping, in preparing and issuing to you. :Many find the messages
the messages, prepa rat iori of pr int- so inspiring and helpfu l that they
ed and photographic materia l. This NEVER want them stopped, but
and the constant enlargement of the very first messages that you
our efforts require a small min- receive should show you that you
imum donation from each Initiate . are well on your way, and not long
The required donation, to be sent thereafter you s h ould begin to
with the information blank, is perceive ACTUAL RES UL TS.
$5.00. This is sent to us before '\,Ve urge. all students, however,
study can begin. Thereafter, the to complete the entire twenty-six
required month ly contribution is week Init iate Course, in fairness
$2 .00. If student wishes to dis- to them felves and their own won-
continue, he may do so at any drous powers.
- <13)-
. ./.
HOW THE GREATMESSAGESCOME
·TO YOU-OUR
METHO
D OF PRESENTING
THE SCIENCE
OF MENT
AL-
PHYSICS
Every thinking man and wo-
mar
r., young or old , is consciously
or uncon sciously seeking what
l\tlentalphysics teach es.
When you enter as a member of
the In st itute of l\1entalphysics,
this is you r official procedure.
During the whole of your progress,
you are in direct touch with your
Guide, Edwin J. Dingle, our Pre-
ceptor and President of this Insti-
tut e. You are dealing with a hu-
man, help ful and considerate man,
who has made your troubles and
your purposes the study of many
years .
YOU RECEIVE
UPON ACCEPTANCE
l. First ff/ eek' s M essa9e -
"Guidance for the Initiate" - a
manuscript of great usefu ln ess and
profound i11terest .
2. Second Week's Message -
"Enteri ng the Gate" - a manu-
script unfolding yot;·;. ·tr emendou s
possibilities. ·
3. Photographi c Material -
illu~tratin g practice s for · you to
make use of imm ediat ely in for-
wa rd ing your purpo se.
4. Print ed Matter-explaining
~ome of the principle s, so far as
we C:\n know _
them today, behind
:-
th~ strange method s.
5. Tlie Method Its elf - the
. first revefation, which you can
apply at once, and see the effect
for yourself.
NOTE : The m e t h o d s and
practices , effective as the y are,. ean
be used by anyon.e of. ordina.ry in-
telligence . The principles, however ,
are given for those keen minds who
delight . in scientific a.nd . philo-
sophical inquir y. Enough is offered
in the first installment alone to
give to such a month 's rare adven··
ture into little known but aston-
ising mysteries of life. Man y of
them are today une xplainable until
science has advanced a thousand
years or more. VVe only know that
they work-how and why must be
left, in a great measure, for future
ages to discover.
YOU .RECEIVE
EACH MONTHTHEREAFTER
Four week l'y messages and
photograr h'c material. :Methods for
special pu 1
·poses. Practices designed
to mould your life, in all aspects,
into the beautiful and triumphant
pattern in wh ich it can be moulded.
AFTER 26 WEEKS
Compl '.'te review of your prog-
re,,s, with full examin atio n at no
extra co.,t to you. T hen, if ex-
?miu:.ition is satisfactory, you are
given a Diploma signed by the
Preceptor E(T!eritus, testifying that
you have successfully passed the
examinat ion.
-(14)-
Use This Form for 30,Day Test
METHODS
OF POWERAND MASTERY
THE INSTITUTE OF MENTALPHYSICS
213 SOUTH HOBART BLVD.
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
Subject ' to 30 days trial , please
send me the manuscripts, printed
matter, photographic material,
etc., which an Initiate Member re-
ceives upon enrollment. The $5.00
deposit required is enclosed. BUT
THIS $5 IS TO BE RETURNED
TO ME, if I choose to return the .
material within thirty days after
receiving it. If I keep it longer
than thirty days , you are to con-
tinue the weekly messages and all
services to which Initiate Members
are entitled , for which I agree to
· donate $2.00 monthly . It is dis-
tinctly understood that I may dis-
continue donating the two dollars ·
monthly at any time I choose,
simply by notifying you to dis-
continue the lessons.
Name ..........................................................··.....................................................................
Address ............................................................................................................................
City ....................................................................................State ........................_.
............
e@f0©,.?
Which Great Gift
Do You Choose?
Show belo w th e First Purpos e you int end to achie ve . Put a cross
in on e of the little squares below to show your choice :
D Greater Health of Body D More Self -Mastery
D More Power to Help Others o Greater Talent in My Chos en
D More Poise and Culture Field
D Greater Influence over Others D Gr~ ter F aith in and Love
D Relief f-rom Worry, Fear or for God ·
Grief D More .Knowledge of Lif e's
D The Peace and Comfort Mysteries
of True Wisdom o Reli ef ·from Par alyzin g Id eas
D Longer, Glorious Life of Handic aps
D Greater Success in Business o A Joyful, Inspired, Bea utiful
or Profession Outlook
D Greater Intelligence and D More Bea utiful Hom e Life
Mental Power for Family
D Secr et Purpose. If you wish, hold your purpose secret , a nd put a
cross in this squa re . Some times this is best , esp ecially if other s ar e
concerned and you wish to respect th eir confidence.
Enclose $5.00 money order, personal check, bank draft, or curren cy..
Checks or money orders should be made payabl e to Th e In stit ute of
Mental physics.
-(15)-
DO THE DEAD RETURN?
Reincarnation is touched upon in this booklet sim•
ply to show Wl-IY the Tibetan Lamas took such an un-
usual interest in Edwin /. Dingle and gave him such
extraordinary oppo,·tunity to learn their methods. Had
the; 1 not believed he 'was one of themselves returned to
life as drz Englishman, it is doubtful 'f.Vhethe1· their mys•
teries 'lvould have been disclosed to him.
Jl.,fr. Dingle confines him-
self chiefly to teaching the
METHODS he learned
from them - methods that
can be and often are used
effe ctiv ely, irrespective of
'lvhether the student adheres
to one religion or another,
holds one belief or another.
His pitrpose is · to teach not
the religion but the P.RAC-
T l CAL METHODS
'lvhich are a factor .in many
of the unusual attainmentr
of. the saq es.
The reader 'lvho is curi-
ous about the doctrine' of
reincarnation will find it
interesting to read early
Chri:stian writers of the
first and second cen tury
A . D., particularly Origen,
Among Christians the be-
lief was 'lvidely held until
the fifth century A. D.,
'lvhen an ecclesiastical coun-
cil discarded ·it . .Here are
quotations from the B ible
whic ·h , indicate that Jesus,
lzis disciples, and the An-
cient Jews MAY have tak-
en such a belief for gran ted:
"But I say unto you, that Elias is come already, and they
knew him not, but have . done unto him whatsoever they listed.
likewise shall also the Son of Man suffer of them.
"Then the disciples understood that he spake unto them of
John the Baptist." -Matt. 17:12, 13
"For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John. And
if ye will receive it, this is Elias, which was for to come. He that
hath ears to bear, let him hear." Matt. 11:13, 15
Certainly it could not be plainer that John the Bap-
tis t 'I.MS a rein .carnation of the Prophet Elias. Whether
sur:h reincarna ti on 'I.Vasconsidered exceptional, or whether
it 'lVfl.Jlooked upon as tlze lot of all people , the text does
not malu clear.
- (16) -
/ ___ _.ii
