{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__anonymous___mentalphysics_treatise_two_science_at_last_finds_god.pdf","mytitle":"Mentalphysics Treatise Two Science At Last Finds God","mylang":"de"}
TREATISE
NO. 2
~cience~t 'last
jf inbs<!?ob
by
EDWIN J. DINGLE, F.R.G.S.
( Founder of The Science of Mentalphysics)
(Copyright, 1939, The Institute .of Mentalphysics)
c;-+...!)
,r What will appear in this treatise will
he of profound interest, and, possibly of
vital importan ce to you who read -to your
grneral physical, mental and spiritual well -
being ... to your success and happin ess . : .
to your whole lif e. I would suggrst that
you read it carefully and wit hout prejudice.
Let th ere he no·doubt about it - what Sci-
ence is discovering and making availab}e to
every clear-thinking man today will bene-
ficiq.lly or:detrim entally affect you and me in
due time, just as we make ourselves con-
versant with what is taking place. Become
familiar with the new findings of modern
scimce as it explains what is called religion ,
and we shall benefit; disregard it, and go on
in the same old ruts as most people do,
square pegs in round holes, and we shall
rnffer. Wise are we if we take ti1~e by the
fore lock and realiz e that to be forewarned
is to he forearmed.
c+.JI
I.N VIEW of the fact that there has long
been a battle between science and religion,
I ask you to read again the title of this
0 h I
. Treatise, "Science At Last Finds
t'erw e ming G d " F h. b l h h
E ·J o . or t 1s att e t at as
Vt ence been waged ever since man learned
to think is now definitely waning. Hard-headed,
matter-of-fact men of science, men who would be
the last to accept a Supreme Architect without
overwhelming evidence, who hitherto have refused
to see anything in the universe but a soulless ma-
chine. have at last found HIM .
part of the universe acts as if aware of what is going
0 G on./ in every other · part. Indeed,
~ -- Einstein's laws, which are now
ec~d,ng generally accepted, indicate that
M,nJ the universe does not act according
to purely mechanical principles. It appears to act
according to the thought of One Great Deciding
11,find. Here again, the scientist is saying the same
thing as our religious teachers - except that the
p_rophetscall this Mind '"Gad."
The mechanical, materialistic interpretation of the
universe, which science formerly favored, pictured
the universe in only three dimensions - length,
The
Unknowable
Fourth
width and height. Our minds, our
very words, are unable to picture
four or more dimensions. Yet the
law ·of relativity and kindred dis-
Dimension coveries now show that the uni-
verse cannot be restricted to three dimensions. Four
dimensions, sometimes seven, are required in the
mathematical calculations of scientists. Formerly this
kind of mathematics was considered an abstraction-
a plaything of mathematicians, having nq application
in life. Now it is found to be the ''Law of that
Deciding Mind, by which the Universe and all its
life are governed.
Even space and time are not what they appear to
be. .All former conceptions are mistaken. The words
have not yet been invented which can describe the
real truth - that is why the re-
All For~er cent profound discoveries can be
_
qon~eptzons understood only by advanced
Mzst aken mathematicians and cannot even be
explained to others. The average man can know only
that time and space, ourselves and the universe, as
we know them through our senses, are illusions.
Isn't this whatour g_reatreligious teachers have been
trying to tell us all along'!
Gravitation is now being explained, not as a
mechanical attraction, but a Law
God Describea or Discipline imposed on the
as a universe by a Deciding .11,find
-
Mathematical the mind of what one scientist
Thinker desctibes as a "Mathematical
Thinker." What can this matherr.atical thinker be
but God'!
One of the world's greatest astronomers, in a
recent book, infers that all objects "exist in the mind
of an eternal being." If so, ·then we human beings
God is
ALL
There ls
are simply atoms in the mind of the
Eternal Thinker, and, like the
atom, simply a center, somewhat
more elaborate, of His thought. "In
the beginning was the Word, and the Word was
with God, and the Word was God." And that is
all there is now - all that remains of you or rr
or anything else when Science searches for ult: ....
truth.
SCIENCE LEADSTHE RETURN
TO RELIGION
~ ANY intelligent people, influenced by a for-
.1...1.( rnerly materialistic science, have abandoned
religion. Now, .guided by the very science
that led them astray, they are returning to a new and
deeply spiritual interpretation of !ife.
Those mystics and prophets, who proclaimed
thousands of years ago the truth that science now
proves, were Giants indeed. They have told us about
a Way of Living in Harmony with
the Will or Law of God which can The Only
lift us to al~ost , unbelievable Healthy Way
heights of achievement. One after of Living
another of their maxims, proverbs, parables, and
rules are. now being confirmed by psychology as
scientifically sound. Their Way of Living is often
advanced by many psychiatrists as the only heal1hy
way , the One Path that does not lead to ruin and
disaster.
Psychologists are finding it true that "Greater
things than these shall ye do also·" :__ incredible as
this may appear to minds that persist in ignoring
the fourth dimension - which P h l
science now confirms. They are syc O
ogy
· d' h · · d' · Supports
hn mg t at our consc10us mm 1s . l
limited by its very nature. Quite The Mzrac es
properly it is called the objective mind, because it
can operate only on the material or three-dimensional
plane. But the unconscious mind within us is not
so limited. It is capable of feats and pmnrs whieh
our limited conscious mind cannot even
comprehend. '
HOWTOBEMA~EROFYOUR
LIFEANDCIRCUMSTANCES
, I.
The time has come to turn .again to t};e teachings
of the prophets, in the light of recent scientific dis-
coveries, and claim for ourselves the great power,
the rich and abundant life, to which they testified.
First, let us look into the one thing upon which
practically all prophets and religions agree - the
power of. "faith." Incidentally, the science of psy-
Where
ALL
chology and psychiatry likewise
recognize this power. With scien-
tific and religious authorities both
agreeing, there is no longer much Religions
excuse for YOU not to believe in Agree
it. And there is still less excuse for your not enjoying
its great benefits.
"THE BROAD-MINDED SEE THE KERNEL OF TRUTH
IN ALL THE WARRING FAITHS.,. THE NARROW-
MINDED SEE OiiJLY THE DIFFERF.NCES."-Con/ucius.
\Vhat is "faith"? As the great prophets used the
word, faith is a feeling rather than a belief, equally
'powerful with many different creeds. It is the ·
Belief
ls Not
Faith
emotion that gives power to your
thought or belief - whatever this
may be. Thought without emotion
is powerless, hardly more than idle
fancy. That is why few people have been able to
demonstrate the power of faith. Most get the im-
pression that intellectual · belief of i'tself can work
miracles. Thought turns on the switch, but the
dynamo that gives POWER is emotion.
From time immelllorial it has been realized that
true faith, when understood and deeply felt, gives a
man a joy, a consolation, a courage and a power, that
is almost without bounds. None can measure the
power of faith. It has achieved wonders, it has
transformed lives, healed the sick, wrought seeming
miracles, raised the dead>. Inspired by faith, men
have conquered empires, built fortunes, released
whole nations from tyranny, swayed the opinions
and emotions of millions, changed the entire course
of history, invented nearly everything that the mind
of man could imagine a hundred years ago, created
. the-great' edifice of medical and material science,
built the glorious nation in ,vhich we live. Men
"walk by faith, not by sight.'.' (2 Cor., 7).
All religions have their record of faith cures.
Such cures are not a monopoly of any one of them.
The authen'ricated miracles of Lourdes show that
Faith
Cure .
s
In All
Religions .
some attain through the Catholic
Faith. Every great denomination
of the Protestant Church has
records of similar incidents. New
Thought, Christian Science, other
philosophies of similar turn, all can furnish illus-
trations. Indeed, every good psychologist and pschi-
atrist can give instances in his own practice of the
overwhelming power of a:n abiding conviction of
almost any kind - whether religious or not - in
aiding almost miraculous cures, in changing .charac-
ter and personality, in substituting success for failure
in all fields of human experience. Even man's faith
in himself, if felt deeply enough so that it has the
emotional depth of true religion, gives such power.
Napoleon's was such a faith.
If you are weak, unsuccessful, unhealthy, lacking
in power of character or personality, it is because
the emotion, the feeling required to give power i:o
your belief, is insufficient. Your lack is not neces-
sarilr because your beliefs are u·rong, but ·because
your feelings are.
NONE CAN KNOW WHAT GREAT
FAITH IS UNTIL HE HAS EXPERIENCED
IT. Ponder well this last sentence, "until he has
experienced it." Until then, it is
a mere word of ,Yhich everyone
thinks he kno\\·s the meaning, but
of which only one in a tho4J,and has
Why
Few
Understand
a partial conception, one in ten thousand a practical
understanding, and only a few Wise 1\1en, headed by
that certain humble Carpenter of Galilee, a true and
complete knowledge. \Ve can know only what we
have experienced of faith, the far greater faith that
some others have experienced is beyond our under-
standing .
. Mere belief cannot, of itself, giv.e power. Our
intellect or objective mind which forms our beliefs,
operates only on the material or three-dimensional
plane. It can comprehend nothing
else. What ever belief it forms Unbelievable
Power
cannot be the whole truth. But our
emotions and · intuition operate in the unco~scious
mind and are not subject to such material limitations.
Therefore the feeling of Faith, if great enough, can
perform that \\"hich 'is, in other circumstances, un-
believable to our _intellect.
If we admit, as we must, that back of all degrees
of consciousness is the universal, cosmic urge to be
more, why have the seers and the prophets through
all time - even the Carpenter of
Galilee - been misunderstood by
all except a frn·? If we admit, as
\\"e rnust, after what "·e have so
far read in this treatise, that every
The Hidden
Message
of the
Prophets
human being has behind his or her consciousness tQ_e
sum of Cosmic Consciourness. why have the sages
and seers, the prophets and the philosophers qf the
p'ast been ignored? Because their essential message
can no more be explained in words than Einstein's
Laws can be. The latter can explain himself only
in mathematical formulae, because there are no words
by which fourth-dimensional or multi-dimensional
matters may be described to a mind with three-
dimensional habits of thinking.
But, in meditating upoi1·the words of our great
religious teachers, many an inspired man or woman,
through feeling, has caught a
glimpse of the real meaning, and Rising
thus has acquired the faith that A hove All
rises above the limitations of time Limitation
and space and things ·physical, the faith that truly
makes possible "greater things than these."
Decide,Today,ThatYou,Too,ShallDo
"Greater Things
ThanThese"
Why let yourself be robbed of the great power
of faith? Determine that the gr eat things it has
done for others, it shall do also for you! Now that
How To
Be Master
ln1tead of
Victim
you know that it is a feeling rather
than a belief, that skeptical intellect
of yours need no longer stand in
your ,ray. You can have the
f a ling with almost any worthy be-
lief. Therefore , revive your religious convictions,
wlrnt cv cr they mav be, and begin to use th em to cre-
ate that all-pow er.ful feeling of faith through which
you may become mast er of your world instead of its
victim. Learn, throu gh the teachings of the .Science
of Mentalphysics, how to mak e your religion a thing .·
of power . · Make no mistake - the reli~ion of your
childhood - any be?-utiful religion in fact - can
help you if you will go into it de eply enough , if you
will scientifically learn certain mPtlzorls and prac-
tices for applying it. which have been known to a
chosen few in each generation. lf you have given up
religion , you have giv en up more than you know.
You cannot return to your former beliefs? Then
get others, and get them quickly.. Don 't waste
months and years deciding what to believe . Take a
few essential truths that you can
Dominion
Over All accept, and start living and feeling
them, as shown in the Science of
the Earth
,.__ Mentalphysics. · Start to seek the
,,,_
d-orninion" promised you by those great prophets
who kne,v whereof they spoke-over life and death,
over circumstance and fear, over success and failure,
over disease and want and frustration. Start the
victorious life . You wish for greater things, do you
not? Remember, then, that Faith can make them
yours. None can permanently stop him who feels
his destiny, none can prevent the ultimate triumph
of him who has an overpowering feeling . of fai1;h;
for your faith is your mind at its best, its bravest,
its truest, and its most powerful.
HOW THE SCIENCE OF
MENTALPHYSICS
CAN HELP YOU
I N Mentalphysics a remarkable method is
taught for transforming mere belief into tht"
sublime feeling of faith, a method that you
can use with almost any creed or religious conviction
-a method that can be used with a
Surprising
Results
creed of your own invention, if
none of the accepted beliefs suits
you. This method is extremely effective in developing
the power of faith more quickly. Thousands have
been surprised by the results, ways of ~ng truth
little known in the modern world. In Mentafphysics- -
we are concerned, not so much with your beliefs, but
with the scientific method of building them-what-
ever they are-into an ever-growing, profoundly in- -
spiring feeling of faith.
These methods have been used for thousands of
years by mystics and adepts,
M etliods prophets and masters. They have
That Work been used with many different
forms of religion. Men may differ
in intellectual beliefs, but in the feeling of faith the
great ones are in unison.
ff you are a Protestant, the Science of Mental-
physics should help yon to be a better one; if a Catho-
lic, it may help you understand better the sublime
emotions \\'hich inspired St. Augus-
tine, St. Bernard, and St. Francis
of Assizi; if a Jew, it may inspire
in you the spiritual strength of the
A Force
Beyo11d
Measure
prophets; if a Unitarian, it should help put life and
power into your intellectual conception of Unity.
If your mental habits per'fnit only a belief in a Su-
preme Intelligence, without the detail of organized
religions, then l\1entalphysics can help you 'to con-
vert this intellectuality into a matter of deepest
feeling-a faith that may shake the world . .Why be
satisfied with a mere intellectual belief, without
.Power, when it can be made into a Force almost be-
3
1
ond resisting-which may make you master instead
of slave-genius instead of failure-leader instead of
_follower-victor instead of loser-gloriously living
· Instead of ailing or d~ad?
As a man thinks, so is he NOT-unless he also
frels. The true quotation is "As a man thinketh
IN HIS HEART, so is he." Let Mentalphysics
teach yo~1 the way to pass your
thoughts from your head to your
heart, your feelings. That is the
Way of Power, of Joy, Happiness,
of Strength and Victory. It is The
Victory!
Strength!
Happiness!
Success!
Way-the "path" of all true seekers. Start upon
it today. Let nothing deter you. Take from Life
what is rightfully yours, assume the Noble Place for
which you were destined, -be the Conqueror that you
can be-and ARE.
In the case of copper, this . energy offers little re-
sistance to the passage of ele-cmci which travels
through it at 186,000 miles a second. However, u '-
energy in the wire resists light, and, .
therefore, makes the copper appear Believe Not
to be solid to your eye. It resists What you see
penetration, and, therefore, makes the copper feel
solid to your hand. Your sense of sight and touch
deceive you.
Indeed, man is continually deceived by his senses,
for our sight, our hearing, our touch, our taste, are
merely channels by which we interpret things in the
outer universe. The senses do not G .
allow . us to know things as they I ettzng
really are, but are designed simply CToserhto
. h h d" f rut
to cope wit t e or mary sur ace
problems of life. Our senses are not adapted to solve
the riddle of the universe. We get closer to a solution
through the more sensitive and accurate instruments
of science. We get still closer to the Final Truth
through the Spirit of Li/ e within us, as I shall explain ·
~~ .
Now, goinji back a little, these infinitesimal centers
of energy wi_
thin the atom are absolutely intangible.
They are called electrical, but no one knows what
electricity is. It might just as "·ell U .
be_cal_
led spirit as_energy - some N ;werse
scientists declare tt to be a mental J&
a f ere
concept - a,thought. The entire ac ine
universe is mape up of these intangible atoms, and
mysterious waves equally intangible. As one of the
greatest living astronomers has written, the universe
"looks more like a great though.t than a great ma-
chin e."
Every material thing - your body, your pencil,
your food and drink and home, the world, the sun,
the stars, are simply differing concentrations of
energy and waves. And these are
just other names for thought or
spirit. This is "That" in which
we live and move and have our
There IS
A Holy
Spirit
being. Every atom of visible, material substance,
when scientifically examined, is found to be kept in
motion by this energy, or- thought or spirit - in
other words, by a Universal Intelligence within it-
self. Ancient scientists and the prophets ,vho de-
clared that the Holy Spirit is everywhere, pervading
everything, appear to be right, after all - though
men led themselves astray into the belief that "God"
was something away, apart, beyond, separate; antl we
h~ve awaited the findings of science to prove other-
wise.
This spirit, or .energy, seems to have great wisdom
-Omni science. As one scientist expr~ssed it, every
At last we are on solid ground. At last you and
I, the man-in-the-street, may know
Prophets that there is a scientific basis for
Con firmed the teachings of the great prophets.
With this spectacular admission by science that it
''at last finds God," a profound ·change of thought
has come. These quiet determined scientists do not
have the habit of proclaiming their
TA W
1
orld d discoveries amjd tumult and sho_
ut-
rans orme ing. Though they reverse the en-
tire philosophy of a materialistic age, the average
man is hardly aware of it. When mankind at large
does become awar e, the world will be transformed
in a few years. Alr eady, however, YOU may use
this new-found knowl edge to transform your world,
as I shall show you later. You may use it to reach
heights you never before achieved - to make -y
our-
self a master instead of a slave, strong instead of
weak, glor iously happy instead of discontent, mental-
ly powerful , financially fr ee, a giant compar ed to
what you have been, with a vibrant gracious per-
sonality that sweeps all before it.
I_3
efore I go into detail about the wond erful new
life now before you, as a result of this new-found
kno\\'l edge, I hope you will bear with me as I briefly
A New
Life
For You
summarize certain recent discover-
ies ·of science.. It is hard to explain
briefly the ultim ate truth of science
which w~ are at last approaching.
If you find th·e ·next few paragraphs tedious, just
skim through them to get the general idea. Lat er on,
rou will sec that they lead to momentous ne,n -
th e most im portant for w ard step in your il'lzole life.
AMAZING DISCOVERIES
OF SCIENCE
...,. OR centuries , as you know, science has been
,.I:' materialistic. It has tried to explain man and
the entire universe mechanically or chemic-
ally. Now recent d·iscoveries show that its entire con-
ception of the nature of matter has been false. The
· . . smallest unit of matter, the atom,
M a_tertaltsm was formerly supposed to be solid
Dtsca rd ed and indivisible .. Now it is found to
be as empty of solids as a great hall with a few flies
whirling around. If an atom could -be magnified to
the size of the hall, you would see a few whirling
particles in a vast emptiness. Even these particles
would not be solid, however, but simply centers of
energy. No wonder electricity can pass through a
copper wire as if nothing at all were there! From
a material standpoint, there is nothing there except
energy/
Ment~lphysics Offe _
red At
MinimumCost
Though the benefits to be expected from Mental-
physics should be worth hundreds, even thousands of
dollars, we ask Initiates only for sufficient donations
to carry on the work; There is necessarily ·expense
incurred in record keeping, in preparing and issuing
the messages, preparation of printed and photographic
material. This and the constant enlargement of our
efforts require asmall minimum donation from each
!nitrate. The required donation, to be sent with the
~ information blank, is $5.00. This is sent to us before.
study can begin. Thereafter, the required monthly
contribution is $2.00. If student wishes to discon-
tinue, he may do so at any time by notifying us to
that effect.
By continuing this monthly contribution, you have
the right of advancing in the Gre ·at Revelation as far
as you desire to go. So long as you remain a member,
four messages monthly will be mailed to you.
Many find the messages so inspiring and helpful that
they NEVER want them stopped, but the very first
messages that you receive should show you that you
are well on your way, and not long thereafter you-
should begin to perceive ACTUAL RESULTS.
We urge all students, however, to complete the en-
tire twenty-six week foitiate Course, in fairness to
themselves and their own wondrous powers.
HOW THE GREAT MESSAGESCOME TO YOU-
OUR METHOD OF PRESENTING THE SCIENCE
OF MENTALPHYSICS
Every thinking man and woman, young or old, is
consciously or unconsciously seeking what Mental-
physics teaches.
\Vhen you enter as a member of the Institute of
Mentalphysics, this is your official procedure. Dur-
- ing the whole of your progress, you are in direct
touch with your Guide, Edwin J. Dingle, our Pre-
ceptor and President of this Institute. You are deal-
ing with a human, helpful and considerate man, ,Yho
has made your troubles and your purposes the study
of many years.
You Receive Upon Acceptance
I. First Week's Message-"Guidance for the
Initiate"-a manuscript of great usefulness and pro-
found interest.
2. Second Week\._j!!_essage - "Entering the
Gate" - a manuscript ~ng your tremendous
possibilities. ._ _ ,--....___
3. Photographic Material-illustrating practices
for you to make ~se of immediately in forwarding
your purposes:
4. Printed M atter~xplaining some of the prin-
ciples, so far as we can know them today, behind the
strange methods. -
5. The Method Itself-the first revelation, wnich
you can apply at once, and see the effect for your-
self.
N'OTE: The methods and practices, effective as
they are, can be used by anyone of ordinary intelli-
gence. The principles, however, are given for those
k:een minds who delight in scientific and philosophi-
cal inquiry. Enough is offered in the first installment
alone to give to such a month's rare adventure into
little known but astonishing mysteries of life. Many
of them are today unexplainable, and may not be
explained until science has advanced a thousand years
or more. We only know that they "'ork-how and
why must be left, in a great measure, for . future
ages to discover.
You ReceiveEa
·ch MonthThereafter
Four weekly messages and photographic material.
l\Iethods 'for special purposes. Practices designed to
mould your life, in all aspects, into the beautiful and ·
- triumphant pattern in which it can be moulded.
After 26 Weeks
Complete review of your progress, with full ex-,
amination at no extra cost to you. Then, if exami- ·
nation is satisfactory, you are given a Diploma signed
by the Preceptor Emeritus, testifying that you have
succe~sfully passed the examination.
PERSONALSERVICE
Edwin J. Dingle and his Staff are ever at the ser-
vice of his students to assist them by personal letters
in their practice of the principles of Mentalphysics.
Counsel is the result of vast experience with students
throughout the world as well as personal observa-
.tion and consultation arising out of personally con-
ducted classes in Los Angeles.
NOTE ON EDWIN J. DINGLE
,r Edwin John Dingle, F.R.G.S., not only has a
very distinguished record of .achievement as a .geographical
explorer, but has explored the realm of thought and spirit
of China, India and Tibet. He is probably the only white
man who lived in a Tibetan Monastery for nine month,
and emerged again to mingle actively in the every-day
affairs of· the busy Western world. In penetrating the
mysteries of the inscrutable East he acquired a fund of
valuable knowledge regarding the verities of life which
so often find no place in the philosophies of the Occident.
This knowledge he presents in a most entertaining and
scientific way, for Edwin J. Dingle is not only a forceful
and dynamic speaker, but is a born interpreter of things
pertaining to the· spirit.
,r During his sojourn)n the United States he has helped
thousands to solve their life problems, and it is confidently
believed that, no matter whether YOUR problems be in the
physical, mental or spiritual realm, Edwin J. Dingle will
point the way to enable you to make ·your life an infinitely
more abundant success.
,r In a word, the truths that he imparts in his teachingw
lead first toward improved physical development, then to
intellectual improvement and true spiritual illumination,
To those who are seeking health, success, the secret of re-
ma-i.ning young and full of vigor, together with the trans-
cending knowledge of the Art of Living, we would extend
a most hearty invitation to read this modern teacher. For
it is seldom that Oriental philosophy and strictly scientific
thought are interpreted and made perfectly clear to the
Western mind, so as to be readily adapted to our busy,
everyday life, Many oJthe Oriental mystics find it difficult,
if not impossible, to accomplish this purpose. ·
,r It can only be emphasized that Edwin J, Dingle, on
the other hand, is an eminently practical man who, through
experience, has a comprehensive grasp of Oc'cidental psy-
chology and American aims and ambitions, His own life
was literally transformed by the philosophy that he teaches,
and it is a tribute to his interest in humanity that his
greatest desire is to help his fellows. ·
,r As a result of many years' experimentation with his
own mind and body, Edwin J. Dingle evplved Mental-
physics, which is so fascinating in its appeal that it is not
to be wondered at that his lecture halls are usually crowded
to the doors. On the Pacific Coast · and in the Eastern
States, Rdwin J. Dingle has ·a host of friends who can
trace their change in general ou,tlook on life to the first
lecture they heard him deliver. As an author he has a
string of books to his credit, many of which are standard
works on various phases of the Orient.
,r Mentalphysics has developed during the first decade
of its existence into a great spiritual science with many
thousands of students throughout the world.
USE THIS F-OBM
--- ,
for 30-Day Test ,
*
Methods of Power and Mastery
THE INSTITUTEOF MENTALPHYSICS
213 SOUTH HODARTBLVD. -
Los ANGELES,CALIFORNIA
S11bject to 30 days tcia/, please send me the manu-
scripts, printed matter, photographic material, etc., which
an Initiate Member receives upon enrollment. The $5.00
deposit required is enclosed . BUT THIS $5.00 IS TO BE
RETURNED TO ME, if I choose to return the material
within thirty days aft~r receiving it. If I keep it longer
than thirty'days, you are t.o use the $5.00 as a donation to
the cause, and you arc to continue the weekly messages
and all services to which Initiate Members are entitled,
for which I agree to donate $2.00 monthly . It is distinctly
understood that I may discontinue donating the two
dollars monthly at any time I choose, simply by notifying
you to discontinue the lessons.
NAME--------~-------------
ADDllESs
____________________ _
0TY ______________ STAT
c.
·-------
*
Which
Creol
GillDoYou
Choose?
*
Show below the FirstPurpose you intend to achieve. ·
Put a cross in one of the little squares below to
show your choice:
D Greater Health of Body
D More Power to Help Others
O More Poise and Culture
O Greater Influence over Others
D Relief from Worry, Fear or
Grief •
D The Peace and Comfort
of True Wisdom
D Longer, Glorious Life
O Greater Success in Business
or Profession
D Greater Intelligence and
Menta I Power
D More Self-Mastery
0 Greater Talent In My Chosen
Field
D Greater Faith- in and Love
for God
D More Knowledge of Life's
Mysteoies
D Relief from Paralyiing Ideas
of Handicaps
DA Joyful, Inspired, Beautiful
Outlook
D More Beautiful Homa Life
for Family
D Secret Purpose. If you wish, hold your purpose secret and put a
cross in this square. Sometimes this Is best, especially If others are
concerned and you wish to respect their confidence .
Enclose $5.00 money order, personal check, bank dra~, or
currency. Checks or money orders should be made payable to
The Institute of Mentalphysics,
~ctence~t JLa~t
jftnbg4?ob
by
EdwinJ. Dingle, F.R.G. S.
*
Published by
International Headquarters
SECOND AND HOBART BLVD.
LOS ANGELES, CALIF., U.S. A ."
4
The Institute of Mentalphysics , Los Angeles,
California, U.S.A.
