{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__anonymous___the_book_of_kosmon.pdf","mytitle":"The Book Of Kosmon","mylang":"de"}
THE
LIGHT OF KOSMON
(OAHSPE)
•
THE KosMoN PRESS
-
I
THE
LIGHT OF KOSMON
being the
DOCTRINAL BOOKS .
reprinted from
·oAHSP E
Published for
THE CONFRATERNITY OF FAITHISTS-KOSMON
CHURCH
The BoulevaPd, Balham Hi8h Road
London, S.W.12.
BY THE
K OSMON PRESS
• f
;
This Booklet is a reprint of chosen portions of
OAHSPE
and is intended to give the spiritual teaching of that Book as a
guide to present-day truth seekers.
OAHSPE.
AFTER the creation of man, the
Cr eator, Jehovih, said unto him:
That thou shalt know thou art the
work of My hand, I have given thee
capacity for knowledg·e, power, and
dominion. This was the first era.
2. But man was helpless, he. under-
stood not the voice of the Almighty,
neither stood he upright. And J ehovih
called His angels, who were older than
the earth, and He said unto them : Go
ye, raise man upright, and teach him
to understand.
3. And the angels of heaven descend-
ed to the earth and raised man up-
right. And man wandered about on the
earth. This was the second era.
4. J ehovih said to the angels that
were with man : Behold, man hath
multiplied on the earth. Bring ye t hem
together; teach them to dwell in cities
and nations.
li. And the angels of J ehovih taught
the peoples of the earth to dwell to-
gether in cities and natione. This was
the third era.
6. And in that same time the Beast
(self) rosa up before man, and spake to
him, saying: Possess thou whatsoever
thou wilt, for all things are thine, and
are good for thee.
7. And man obeyed the Beast; and
war came into the world. This was the
fourth era. ·
8. And man was sick at h aart, and
he called out to the Beast, saying :
Tho11 saidst : Possess thyself of all
things, for they are good for thee.
Now, behold, war and death have en-
compassed me about on all sides. 1
pray thee, therefore, teach me peace !
9. But the Beast said: Think not 1
am come to send peace on the earth ; 1
come not to send peace, but a sword;
I come t d set man at variance against
his father; and a daughter against her
mother. l Whatsoever thou findest to
eat, be it fish or flesh, eat thou there-
of, taking no thought of to-morrow.
10. And man ate fish and flesh, be-
coming carnivorous, and darkness came
upon him, neitber yet heard he the
voice of J ehovih, nor believed in Hirn.
This was the fifth era.
•
11. And the Beast divided itself into
four great Heads, and possessed the
earth about; and man feil down and
worshipped them. ,
12, And the names of the Heads of
the Beo,st were, BRAHmN, BUDDHIST,
CHRISTIAN, and MOHAMMEDAN. And they
divided the earth, and apportioned it
between themselves, choosing soldiers
and standing armies for the mainten-
ance of their earthly aggrandizement.
13. And the Brahmins had seven mil-
lion soldiers; the Buddhists twenty
million; the Christians seven million;
and the Mohammedans two million,
whose trade was killing man. And
man, in ser vice of the Beast, gave one-
sixth of his life and his labour to war
and standing armies; and one-third of
his life he gave to dissipation and
drunkenness. This was the sixth era.
14. J ehovih called to man to desist
from evil; but man heard Hirn not.
For the cunning of the Beast had
changed man's flesh, so that his eoul
was hid as i f in a cloud, andhe loved ein.
15. Jehovih called unto hie angels in
heaven, saying: Go ye down to the
earth once more, to man, whom I cre-
ated to inhabit the earth and enjoy it,
and say ye to man: Thus saith Jeho-
vih :
16. Behold, the seventh era ia at
hand. Thy Creator commandeth thy
change from a carnivorous man of con-
tention, to an. ,h erbivorous man of
peace. The four Heads of the Beast
shall be put away; and war shall be no
more on the earth.
17. Thy armies shall be disbanded.
And, from t his time forth, whosoever
desireth not to war, thou shalt not
impress; for it is the commandment of
thy Creator.
18. Neither shalt thou hav:e any God,
nor Lord, nor Saviour, but only thy
Creator, J ehovih ! Him only shalt
thou worship henceforth forever. 1
am sufficient unto Mine own creations.
19. And to as many as separate them-
selves from the dominion of the Beast,
making th ese covenants unto Me, have
T g-ivon the foundation of My kingdom
on earth.
0 AH S P E.
20. And all such shatl be My chosen ,
By their covenants and by their wor ks
shall they be known henceforth on the
earth as Mine, and shall be called
FAITH!STS. '
21. But to as many as will not make
these covenants, have I given the num-
bers of tha Beast, and they shall be
called UzrA
NS, signifying destroyers.
And these shall be henceforth the two
kinds of people on earth, FAITHISTS and
UZ!ANS.
22. A.nd the angels of heaven ds-
scended to the earth, to man, an~ ap-
peared before him, face to face, hun-
d rede of thousands of them, speaking
as man speaketh, and writing as ma.n
writeth, teaching these things of Je-
hovih and His works.
23. And in the thirby third year
thereof, the Embassadors of the angel
hosts of heaven, prepared and revealed
unto man in the name of J ehovih, His
hea.venly kingdoms; and have thus
herein made known the plan of Hie
delightful creations, for the resurrec-
tion of the peoples of the earth.
24. Not infallible is this ~ Book,
ÜAHSPE ; but to teac.h mortals HOW TO
A
'l"fAIN 1'0 HEAR THE CREA
TOR's VOICE, and
to SEE H rs HEAVENS, in full conscious-
ness, whilst still living on the ear t h;
a.nd to know of a truth the place and
condition awaiting them after death.
25. Neither ar e, nor were, the reve-
lations within this ÜAHSPE wholly new
to mortals. The same things have
been revealed a t th e same time unto
many, who live at remote distances
from one another, but who were not in
cor respondence till after ward.
26. Because this light is thus oom-
prehensive, embracing corporeal a.nd
spiritual things, it is called the begin-
ning of tbe KosMON E aA. And because
ii relates to earth, sky, and spirit, it
is calleu Ü AHSPE.
THE VOICE
0 J EHOVIH, what am l that 1should
.., supplicate Thee? Know I mine
own weakness, or understand I the
way of my thoughts? Thou hast
placed before me most wonderful crea-
tions : They impress me, aII'd my senses
r ise up in rem<:Xmbrance of tbe Al-
mighty. Wherein have I invented one
thought but by ·1ooking upon Thy
works? How can 1 otherwise t han re-
inember my Creator; and out of Thy
creations, 0 J ehovih, find r ieb food for
meditation all the days of my life ?
2. And ;vet, t hough I have appro-
priated the earth unto myself, I am
not happy nor perfect withal. Misery
and cr ime and selfishness are upon my
people.
3. What is my wealrness that I can-
not overcome it? Or what is my
strength that I succumb to the desires
of the earth? I build up my belief and
courage in Thee ; but ere 1 know the
way of my weakness, 1 stumble and
fal l. Am I made that I shall be for-
ever a r eproof to myself, and a censure
to my own behaviour ?
4. H ow sha\l 1 say to this man or
that: Be thou pure and holy. 0 man !
Are not my llesh and blood proof that
man cannot be without sin ? 0 this
cor rupti ble seif, this tendency to fall
from the right way<! Thou, 0 m;:
Creator, hast proven .before my senses
every day of my life, that Thou alone
art mighty in purit y and truth .
5. 0 t hat I had a star ting point
wberefrom to estimate Thy wonderful
decrees, or could fi nd a road in wbich
I should never stumble. But yet, 0
J ebovih, I will not complain because
of the way of Thy wor ks. Thou hast
invented a limit to my understanding,
whereby I am reminded of Thee, to
call upon Thy Name. I perceive my
own vanity ; tbat whereas were know-
ledge mine, I should become lese be-
holden unto Thee !
6. What am I, 0 Jehovih, without
Thee; or wherein shall I find the glory
of Tby creations but by the light
of Thy countenance? Thou broughtest
me fort h out of sin and darkness and
clothed me in light. I behold t be
s
OF MAN.
smallness of myself in Thy great works•
'l'hou hast bound me to travel on the
ear th, to SOJourn with beasts and all
manner of creeping things; nor given
me one attribute wberein I can boast
over them, save in the power of de-
struction. The high firmament placed
Thou above me ; t he stars and moon
and sun ! I know Thou hast been
thither, but I am bound down i n a
little corner of Thy works ! I have not
power to rise up to Thy distant placea,
nor to know Thy extended heavens.
7. Nay, I have not power to sbape
my own size and stature; but all
things take fo rm and dimension
whether -I will or no. I n Thine own
way are built the walls of the world ;
by their magnitude am I confounded ;
by the maj esty of Thy band appalled.
Why bave I vainly set up myself as
the highest of Thy works? My failures
are worse than any other Jiving crea-
ture under the sun. 1 cannot build my
house in perfection like a bird's ; my
ingen uity cannot fashion a spider's
net ; I cannot sail up in tbe air like a
bird, nor live in the water like t he
fish, nor d weil in harmony like the
bee. The half of my offspring die in
infancy ; the multitude of my house-
hold are quarrellers, fighters, dr unk-
ards and beggars ; the best of my sons
and daugbters are less faithful than
a dog ! I go for th to war, to slay
my brother, even whilst Thy wide
earth hath room for all. Yea, I ac-
curse the earth wit h starvation and
sin and untimely death. 0 t hat 1
could school myself to boast not of my
greatness ; that 1 should be fo rever
ashamed in Thy sigbt, Jehovih !
B. Unto Thee 1 will acknnwlcdge my
iniquities ; I can hide nothing from
the eye of my Cr eator. Hear me then,
0 Father !
9. I took up arms against my bro-
ther. Wit~ great armies I enco:tn-
passed him about to despoil bim .
10. His widows and orphans I mul-
tiplied by the stroke of my S\vord; the
cry of anguish that came out of their
mouths I answered b.v the destructio.u
nf my brother's harvest.
1 0 A H SPE.
11. To my eaplains and generals wbo
showed great skill in killing, 1 built
moRuments in stone and irim. Yea.,
J inscribed them from top to bottom
with their bloody victories.
12. And in my vanity I called out to
the young, saying : Behold the glory
of great men ! These great monu-
ments have 1 builded to tbem !
13. And the youth of my household
were whetted with ambition for spoil.
The example. of my band made them
train themselves for warfare.
14. To my colonels and generals I
gave badges of gold. 1 called to tbe
damsels, saying : Come, a great honour
I ~ive to you; ye sha.11 dance with the
officers of death !
15. And they tripped up on tip-toe,
elated by tbe boney of my words ! 0
Jehovih, how ha.ve 1 not covered up
my wickedness; how have 1 failed to
make the flow of my brotber's blood
tbe relisb of satan !
16. To my destroying hosts 1 have
given great honour and glory. In the
pretence of enforcing peace 1 hewed
my way in flesh and blood.
17. 1 mad!l great pretensioris in a
kini:dom. I called out to my people,
saymg: We must have a. kingdom.
I showed them no reason for it; but I
bade tbem take u~ arms and follow
me for patriotism s sake. And yet
what was patriotism? Behold, I made
it as a something greater tban Tbee
and Tby commandment: Tuou SBALT
NOT KILL.
18. Yea, by the cunning of my words,
1 taugbt them my brotber wi.s my
enemy; that to fall upon bim and bis
people and destroy them was great
patriotism.
19. And they ran at the sound of my
voice, for my glory in the greatness of
my kingdom, and tbey committed great
ba.voc.
20. Yea, 1 built colleges for training
my young men in warfare. I drew a
boundary hitber and thither, saying :
This is my kingdom ! All others are
my enemies!
21. 1 flatter.
ed the young men with
the work of death; 1 said: Ye men of
war ! Great shall be your glory !
22. And tbeir j udgment was turned
away from peace; I made them think
tbat righteousness was to stand up for
me and my country, and to destroy
my brnther and bis piiople.
23. Tbey built me forts and castlea
and a.rsenals without number. 1 called
unto my people, saying : Come, behold
tbe glory pf my defences which I built
fo;r you !
24. And they gave me money and
garriaons, a.nd ships pf war, and tor-
'
pedoes, shouting: Hurrah for o'lll'
kingdom ! We have faith in these
things, more than in Tbee, our
Creator !
25. Thus I led them away from Thee.
Tbeir eyes I turned down in the way
of death. By tbe might of my armißS
J put awa.y rigbteousness.
26. I covered the earth over with
drunkards, and widows and orpba.ns;
to begga.ry I reduced them, but 1
wbetted their pride by sa.ying: Behold
what great standing a.rmi!ls we have!
27. To the man that said : There
sball come a. time of peace, when war ~
shall be no more f.orever, 1 mocked
and said : Thou fool !
28. I know the counts against me, 0
Father. I cannot hide my iniquity
from Thy sight. I ha.ve said war was
a necessary evil to prevent a too popu-
lous world ! I turned my back toward
the wide, unsettled regions of the
earth. With this falsehood in my
mouth 1 stood up before Thee ! Yea,
1 cried out as if for the righteous, say.
- ing : I war for righteousness, a.nd for
the protection of the weak ! In the
destruction of my brethren 1 stood a.s
a murderer, pleading tbis excuse.
Stubbornly J persisted in not seeing
j ustice on the other side, whilst 1 cut
down whom Thou hadst created alive,
above the works of Thy band 1 raised
myself up as a pruning knife in Thy
vineyard.
29. Yea, more than this, l ,persuaded
my sons and daughters that to war
for me was to war for our Father -in
heaven. By such blasphemy led 1
them into ruin. And when the battle
was over for a day 1 cried out : Behold
the glory of them that were slain for
the honour of their country ! Thus
have I added orime to crime before
Thee, J ebovih; thus destroyed Thy
beautiful crea.tion. Verily, have 1 not
one wortl. in j ustification of my deeds
before Thee !
30. 0 that I bad remained faithful
with Thee, Jehovih ! But 1 invented
gods unto the glory of thi:i evil one.
In one place 1 called out to my sons
and da.ugbt.ers, sa.ying: Be ye Brah·
mins ; Brahma saveth whosoever pro·
fesseth bis name. In another place 1
said : Be ye Buddhists ; Buddha saveth
whosoever calleth on bis name. In an·
other place I said : Be ye Christiane;
Christ saveth whosoever calleth on lütt
name. In a.notber place 1 said: Be
ye Moham:{D.edans; whosoever sa.ith :
There is but oni:i God and Mohammed
is his prophet ! sha.11 have indulgence
without ein.
31.Thns have 1 divided the earth , 0
J ehovih ! lnto four great idolatries
THE VOICE OF MAN.
han 1 founded them, and into their
hands put all manner of weapons of
destruction, and they are become more
terrible against one another than are
the beasts of the forest. 0 that 1 could
put away these great iniquities which
I raised up as everlasting torments to
the earth. Verily, there is no sal'l'ation
in any of these.
32. Their peopla are forever destroy-
ing one another. They quarre! and
kill for their respective religions; set-
ting aside Thy commandment, Thou
shalt not kill. Tbey Love their own
.nation and hate all others. They set
aside Thy commandment, Love thy
neighbour as thyself.
33. They preach and pray in suffici-
ent truth; but not one of these people
practiseth peace, love and virtue, in
any degree commensurate with tbeir
understanding. These religions bave
not saved from sin any natio'i or city
on the whole earth.
34. In vain have I searched for a
plan of redemption; a plan tbat would
make the earth a paradise, and the
life of man a glory unto Thee, and a
joy unto himself. But alas, the two
extremes, riches and poverty, have
made the prospect of a millennium a
thing of mockery.
·35. For one man ~hat is rieb there
are a thousand poor, and their inter-
ests are an interminable conflict with
one another. Labour crieth out in
a
pain; but capital smiteth him with a
heartless blow.
36. Nation is against nation; king
against king; merchant against mer-
chant; consumer against producer;
yea, man against man, in all things
upon the earth.
37. Because the state is rotten, the
politician feedeth thereon; because
society is rotten, the lawyer and court
have riches and sumptuous feasts; b&-
cause the flesh of my people is rotten,
the physician findeth a harvest of
comfort.
38. Now, 0 J ehovih, 1 come to Thee !
Thou holdest the secret of peace and
harmony, aild good will amongst mor-
tals. Give me of Thy light, 0 Father !
Show me the way of proceeding, that
war and crime and poverty may come
to an end. Open Thon the way of
peace and Love and virtue and truth,
that Thy children may rejoice in their
lives, and glorify Thee and Thy works
forever.
39. Such is the voice of man, 0 Jeho-
vih ! In all the nations of the earth
this voice riseth up to Tbee ! as Thou
spakest to Zarathustra, and to Abra-
ham and Moses, leading them forth out
of darkness, 0 speak Thou, Jehovih !
40. Man hath faith in Thee only;
Thon alone wast sufficient in the olden
time: To-day, Thou alone art suffici-
ent unto Thine own creation. Speak
Thou, 0 Jehovih 1
BOOK OF JEHOVIH.
WHEREIN IS REVEALED T HE THREE GREAT WORJ_,ns. CORPOR,
A'l'MOSPHEREA, AND ETHEREA. AS IN ALL OTHER BIBLES IT IS
REVEALED TRAT THIS W ORLD W.AS CREATED, SO IN THIS BIBLE
rr IS REVEALED HOW THE CREATOR CREATED IT. AS OTHER
BIBLES HAVE PROCLAI MED HEAVENS FOR THE SPIRITS OF THE
DEAD, BEHOLD, THIS BIBLE REVEALETH WHERE THESE
H EAVENS ARE, AND THE MANNER AN D GLORY AND WORK TRAT
THE SP IRITS OF THE DEAD ENJOY, WHEREBY THE WISDOM,
P mnm. LOVE AND GLORY OF THE ALMIGHTY ARE MAGNlFIED
FOR THE UNDERST.A.NDING OF MAN.
A POLOGY ' "The universe is full; all things are members. Speech they have: bid them speak.
The recorder of their words be tbou. Such is Panic (Eartb) language, tbe first language. What
saith the bird ? The beast 1 The stars 1 T be sun 1 All? lt is their souls speaking. The soul
hear tbou, and repeat it. Tbis light leadetb tbee to origin. ")
CHAPTER I.
ALL wae. ALL is. ALL ever shall be.
The ALL spake, and Motion was,
aod is, and ever shall be; and, being
positive, was called He and H im. 'l he
A1
,L MOTION was His speech.
2. He said, l AM! And He compre-
hended all things, t he seen and the
unseen. Nor is there aught in all the
universe bnt what is pa rt of Him.
3. H e said, I am the soul of all; and
the all that is seen is of My per son
and My body.
4. By virtue of My presence all
things are. By virtne of My presence
is life. By virtue of My presence are
the living bro ught for th into life. I am
the QUICKENER, the MovER, the CaEATOR,
the DEB
TROYEB
\ I am FIRST and LABT.
5. Of two apparent ent ities am I,
nevertheless I AM BUT ÜN
E. These en-
tities are the U NSEEN, which is POTENT,
and the SEEN, which is of itself lMPO·
TEN
T, and ealled CORPOR.
6. With these two entities, in like-
6
ness thereby of Myself, made I all the
living; for as the life is the potent
part, so is the corporeal part the im-
potent part.
7. Chief over all that live on the
earth I made Man; male and female
made T them. And that man might
distinguish Me, I commanded him to
give Me a name ; by virtue of My pre-
sence commanded I him. And man
na med Me not after anything in
heaven or on the earth. In obedience
to My will named he Me after the
sounds the wiud uttereth, and he said,
E-0-IH ! Which is now pr onounced
Jehovih, a.nd ia written thus_;_
B 0 0 K 0 F J E H 0 V 1H. 2
CHAPTER II.
J ElHOVIH said : By virtue of my
presence created l the seen and the
unseen worlds. And I commanded
man to name them; and man named
lhe seen worlds Corpor, and the unseen
worlds Es; and the inhabitants of
Corpor, man named corporeans. But
the inhabitants of Es he called some-
times es'eans and sometimes spirits
and sometimes angels.
2. J ehovih said : l created the earth,
and fashioned it, and placed it in the
firmament ; and by My presence
brought man forth a living being. A
cor poreal body gave I hiJ'.'.l that he
might lear n curporeal thmgs; and
death l ma.de that he might rise in
the firmament and inherit My
etherean worlds.
3. To es I gaYe dominion ove.r co1„
!?or; with es I filled all place m .the
lirmamcnt. But corpor I made mto
earths and moons and stars and suns;
beyond number ma.de 1 them, and 1
caused them to f!oat in th.e places 1
allotted to them.
4. Es I divided into two parts, and 1
commanded man to name them, and
he named one etherea and the other
atmospherea. 'I'beoo are the th ree
kinds of world I created; but 1 gave
different densities to atmospherean
worlds, and different densities to the
etherean worlds.
5. For the substance of My etberean
worlds I created Ethe, the MosT RARE-
FIED. Out of the ethe made I them. And
1 made ethe the most subtle of all
created tLings, and gave to it power
and place, not only by itself, but also
power to penetrate and exist within all
things, even in the midst of the cor-
poreal worlds. And to ethe gave I
dominion over both atmospherea and
corpor.
6. In the ALL HIGBEST places created
I the etherean worlds, and I fasbioned
them of all shapes and sizes, similar to
My corporeal worlds. But I made the
etberean worlds inbabitable both
within and without, with entrances
and exits, in arcbes and curves, thou-
sands of miles high and wide, and
overruled I them with PERFECT mechan-
ism ; and in colours and movable
chasms and mountains in endless
change and brilliancy. To them 1
gavo motions, and orbits and courses
of tbeir own; iudependent made I
them, and above all other worlds in
potency and majesty.
7. Neither created I one etberean
world like anotber in size or density
or in component parts. bnt every one
differing from auother, and witb a
7
glory match less each in its way.
8. Atmospherean worlds l alsp cre-
ated in the firmament, and I gave
them places and orbits and courses for
themselves. But atmospherean worlds
I created shapeless and void of fixed
form, for they are in process of cou-
densation or dissolution, being inter-
mediate in condition betwixt My
etherean and My corporeal wor.lds.
Of thriie degrees of density created I
them, and I commanded man to name
them, and one he called A'ji, and one
Ji'ay and one Nebuloo.
9. But all of them are composed of
the same substances, being like the
eartb, but r arefied. Nor is t here on
the earth or in it one thing, even iron,
or lead, or gold, or water, or oil, or
stones, but the same things are in My
atmospberean worlds. As I have given
light to the earth so have I given
light to many of them; and all such
have I commanded man to call comets. ,
And even so named he them.
10. And I also created atmospherea
around about My corporeal worlda;
together made I them.
CHA"PTER III.
T HUS spake Jehovih ; by the light
of kosmon proclaimed He these
things amongst the nations of tbe ear th.
2. Man looked upward in prayer, de-
siring to know the manner of all
created tbings, bot h on earth and in
heaven. And Jehovih answered him,
saying:
3. Tbe wbirlwind made I as a sign
to man of the manner of My created
.worlds. As thou beboldest the power
of the whirlwind gathering up th e
dust of the eartb and driving it to-
gether, know that even so do 1 bring
together tbe a'ji and ji'ay and nebuloo
in the firmament of heaven; by the
power of the whirlwind create I the
corporeal suns and moons and stars.
And I commanded man to name the
whirlwinds in tbe ether ean firmament,
and he named them vortices and
wark; according t0 their shape named
he them.
4. By the power of rotation, swift
driving forth in the extreme parts,
condense I the atmospherean worlds
that f!oat in the firmament; and these
become My corporeal worlds. In the
midst of the vortices made I them, and
by the power of the vortices I turn
tbem on tbeir axes, and carry tbem '
in the orbits I allotted to them.
Wider than to the moons of a planet
havf\ T crt;1af~rt th<> vortices, and they
ca rry the moons also.
• OAHSPE.
5. Around about some of My cor-
poreal worlds have I given nebulous
belts and rings, that man might com-
prehend the rotation of My vortexian
worlds.
6. For each and every corporeal
world created I a vortex first, and by
its rotation and by the places in th'e
firmament whither it travelleth caused
l the vortex to conceive the corporeal
wor ld.
7. A great vprtex o,reated I for the
sun, and, within this vortex and sub-
ject to it, made I t he vortices of many
of the corporeal worlds. The sun vor-
tex I caused to rotate, and I gave it
power to carry other vortices within
it. According to their density and
positioh are they thus carried forth
and around about the sun.
8. Think not, 0 man, tbat I created
the sky a barren waste, and void of
use. Even as man in the corporeal
form is adapted to the cprporeal earth,
so is he in tbe spiritual form adapted
to My etherean worlds. Three greai
estates have l bestowed on man : the
corporeal, the atmospherean and the
etherean.
CHAPTER IV.
M AN perceived the general founda-
tion of thii world, and he prayed
tbat his eyes might be ppened for a
sign in heaven; and Jehovih answered
him, saying :
2. The clouds in the air I bring into
view suddenly; by different currents of
wind make I thus the unseen visible
and tangible to man's senses. In like
manner do I cause etherean currents
t o bring forth a'ji and ji'ay and nebu-
loo, prior to making corporeal worlds.
3. In all the universe have I made
the nnseen to rule over the seen. Let
the formation of the clpuds stand in
the view of man on earth, that he
may bear witness to the manner of
thii unseen becoming seen.
4. Man perceived, and he prayed
for a sign of duration, and J ehovih
answered him, saying :
5. Bebold the tree which hath
sprnng up out of the ground and ful-
filled its time; it falleth and rotteth,
and returneth to th.e earth. But lo,
· the wind, which tbou seest not, never
ceaseth to blow. Even so is the com-
parative duration of all things. Think
not, 0 man, that corporeal things are
annibilated because they disappear;
for as a drop of water evaporateth
and riseth in the air as unseen va,pour,
so do all corporeal things, even eartJ1
8
and stones, and gold, and silver, and
lead, become as nothing in the firma-
ment pf heaven in course of time. .
6. Things that man seeth, created I
with a beginning and an end; but the
unseen I made of endless duration.
7. The corporeal man made I belong-
ing to the seen; but the spiritual man
made I as one within the unseen, and
everlasting.
B. As the corporeal man beholdeth
corporeal things, so doth thii spiritual
man follpw upward the evaporated
corporeal entities of things. As cor-
poreal things are tangible to corpor-
eans, so are es things tangible to the
spirits of tbe dead.
9. As I cause water to risii u pward
as vapour, and take a place in the air
above, Jet it be a sign and testimony of
otber places in atmospherea, whereon
dwell the spirits pf the lower heaven.
10. As I made a limit to the ascent of
the clouds, so made I a limit to the
places of tbe different kinds of sub-
stances in atmospherea; tbe more
subtle and potent to the extreme, and
the more dense and impotent nearer to
the earth.
11. According tp the condition of
these different plateaux ·in atmosphe-
rea, whether thiiy be near the earth
or high above, so shall the spirit of
man take its place in the first h eaven;
according to his diet and desires and
behaviour so shall he dwell in spirit cm
the plateau to which he hath adapted
himself during his eartb life.
12. For-.J made the power pf attrac-
tion manifest in all things before man's
eyes that he might not err, that like
should attract like made I them.
13. Man sought to know the progress
of things. J ehovih answered him,
saying:
14. Open thine eyes, 0 man 1 There
is a time of childhood, a time of
genesis, a time of old age, and a time
of death ti> all men. Even so is it
with all the corporeal worlds I have
created.
15. First as vapour the vortex ca.r-
rietb it forth, and as it condenseth, its
friction engendereth heat, and it is
molten, becoming ae a globe of fire in
heaven. Then it taketh its place as a
new born world, and I set it in the
orbit prepared for it .
16. In the niixt age I bring it into
se'mu, for it is ripe for the bringing
forth of living creatures; and I be-
stow the vegetable and animal king-
doms.
17. Next it entereth ho'tu, for it is
past the a.ge of begetting, even as the
living who are in dotage. Next it en-
1oreth a'du, and nothling can generate
B 0 0 K 0 F J E H 0 V 1 H.
upon it. Then cometh uz, and it is
spirited away into unseen realms.
'l'hus create J, and thus dissipate
planets, suns, moons and stars.
18. My examples are before all men.
My witnesses are without number. 1
raise the tree up out of the ground;
' I give ,it a time to bring forth fruit;
and then barrenness, and then death
and dissolution. I prepare the new
field with rich soil, bringing forth ;
and the old field, that is exhausted, and
man shall weigh the prpgress and
destiny of a wbole world.
19. Let no man marviil because of the
size of the mammoth and the ichthy-
osaurus, for there was a time fpr them
as there is a time for the infusoria of
this day.
20. I have given thee a sign, 0 man,
in the queen of the honey bee; because
• of the change of the cell cometh she
forth a queen, even from the same
manner of germ as the other bees.
Be wise, therefore, and remember that
the earth is not in the place of the
firmament as Gf old. Let this be a
testimony to thee of the growth, the
change and the travail of the earth.
21. Nevertheless, 0 man, the seen
and the unseim are but parts of. My
person; I am the Unity of the whole.
CHAPTER V.
understand the age of se'mu, when the
earth and the shores by the water, and
the waters also, were covered over
with commingled atmosphere and cor-
poreal substance. And this substance
was called se'mu, because by Jehovih's
presence quickened He it into life, and
thus made He all the living, both the
vegetable and animal worlds? Not
that se'mu is jelly-fish or the green
scum of water; fpr the earth in this
day produceth not se'mu abundantly;
nevertheless the jelly-fish and the
green scum of water are signs of that
which was in that day of the earth.11
5. Jehovih said: Because of My pre-
senc.e quickened I into life all that
live, or ever have lived.
6. Because I am male and female,
even in M{ likeness, tbus made I i;hem.
Because am the power to_guicken
into life, so, in likeness of Me. thus
made I them, and with power to bring
forth.
7. According to their respective
places created I the living; not in
pairs only, but in hundreds of pairs
and thousands, and in millions.
8. According to their respective
places and the light upon se'mu, so
quickened 1 them in their colour,
adapted to their dwelling places.
9. Each and every: living thing cre-
ated 1 new upon the earth, of a kind
each to itself; and not one living thing
created 1 out of another.
10. Let a sign be upon the earth, that
M AN perceived the magnitnde and man in his darkness may not believe
glory of the corporeal wq>lds. He that one animal changeth and becom-
said: How shall I speak of Thy great eth another.
works, 0 Jehovih, and of Thy wisdom 11. II Thereupon Jehovih gave per-
and power? Shall 1 open my mouth mission for different animals to bring
before Thee? 1 look upon Thy count- forth a new living animal, which
lass stars, suns and moons, spread out should be unlike either its mother or
over the heavens ! The millions of father, bnt he caused the new pro-
years Thou hast driven them on in the duct to be barren.II
never-ending firmament ! Processions 12. Jehovih said: And this shall be
in and out, and round about, of testimony before all men that 1 cre-
mighty worlds ! By Thy breatb going ated each and all the living, after their
forth -
! own kind only.
2. 0 Thou, All Highest! How shall 13. Such.is My person and My spirit,
I hide my insignificance ! I cnnnot · being from everlasting to everlasting;
create the smallest thing alive ! Nay, and when 1 bring a new world into the
nor change-the colour of a hair on my time of se'mu, lo and behold My pre-
head. What am 1, that Thou hast sence quickeneth the substance into
seen me? life; according to the locality and the
3. Tell me, 0 my Creator, whence surroundings, so do I bring forth the
came life? This unseen within me that different species; for they are flesh of
is conscious of being? Tell me llow all My flesh and spirit of My spirit. To
the living came into life. themselves give I themselves; never-
4. Jehovih heard the words of man, theless they are all members of My
and He answered him, saying : Let a Person.
sign be given to man that he may 14. As a testimony to man, behold
comprehend s'e'mu. II Ther.
eupon J eho- the earth was once a globe of liquid
vih caused the jelly-fish and the green fire ! Nor was there any seed there-
scum of water to be permanently com- on. But in due season I rained down
ing fprth in all ages, that man might se'mu 9n the earth; and by virtue of
B2 9
5 0 A H SPE.
My presenee quickenecl I into life all
the living. Without seed created I
the life that is in them.
CHAPTER VI.
W REN man comprehended the
earth he looked upward; and
Jehovih saw him and knew the desires
of his soul. So Jehovih sent His son
Uz, and Uz spake, saying :
2. Hear me, 0 man; the mysteries
of heaven and earth will I clear up
before thy judgment. Thou art tbe
highest, and comest to the chiefest of
all kingdoms; from Great J ehovih
shalt thou Jearn wisdom, and none
shall gainsay tbee.
3. Bethink tbee, 0 man, of the mag-
nitude of thy Father's kingdoms and
His places in t1e firmamen.t. Save 1
take tbee into tbe heavens above, thou
canst not comprehend the places there-
of.
4. Man then rose up in spirit, and
ascended into the firrnamen.t, for his
spirit had crystallisecl into separnte-
ness; and Uz and Es ascended with
him, speaking in the voice of the
Father. And man beheld that ea:ch
and everything in the firmament was
orderly, and still each to itself lo- -
cated. Then spake Es, saying :
5. Behold, 0 man! As . a farm~r
soweth corn in one place, and wheat
in another and roots in another, and
fiax-everything in a separate place;
even so doth .Tehovih store the ingre- ·
dients of which worlds are made-
everything in its place-the substance
of the iron in one place, the substance
of the stones in another, the substance
of the vegetable kingdom in another,
and even so of the substa.nce of the
animal kingdom; and the oils and
sand; for He hath places in the firma-
ment of heaven for all of them. These
that thou sawest are the a'ji and tbe
ji'ay and the nebulre; and amidst
them in places ther.e is se'm11 also.
Let no man say : Yonder is hydrogen
only, and yonder oxygen onl:v. The
divisions of the substances of His crea,
ticns are not as man would make
them. All the elem.ents are to be
found not only in places near at hand,
but in distant places also.
6. When the Father driveth forth
His worlds in the heavens, they gatber
a sufficiency of all tbings. So also
cometh it to pass that wben a cor"
p0real world is yet new and young it
is carried forth, not by random, but
purposely, in the r egions suitecl to it.
Hence there is a time for se'mu, a time
for falling nebulre, to bury deep the
forests and se'muan beds, t o provide
coal and manure for a · time there-
after. So is there a time when the
earth passeth a region in the firma-
ment when sand and oil are rained
upon it and covered up, and gases
bound ana sealed up for the comirig
generations of men.
7. AnU. man said: 1 am asham.ed in
Thy sight, 0 Jebovih ! I looked up-
ward and s1Lid, Behold the sky, it is
nothing ! Then 1 said: lt is tr:ne,
the corporen.! worlds ar e made of con-
densed nebulro; but I saw not the wis..
dom an<l 9lory of Thy works. I locked
Thee u_p rn coincidences and happen-
ings. Thy unseen world hath become
seen; the unreal hath become the real.
8. 0 that I had been mindful of
Thee ! 0 tbat I bad not put Thee afar,
nor imagined laws and decrees. Teach
Tbou me, 0 Jehovih ! How was the
beginning of man? How was it with
the first of tbe living that Thou
broug:htest forth?
9. J E>hovih said: Have I not de-
clared Myself in the past; in my works
bave I not provided tho11sands of
years in advance? As 1 have sbown
system in the corporeal worlds, know
thou, 0 man, that system prevaileih
in the firmament. ·
10. To the tree I gave life; to man I
gave life and spirit also. And tbe
spirit I made was separate from tbe
corporeal life.
11. Out of se'mu I made man, and
man was but as a tree, but dwelling in
ha'k; and I called him Asu (Adam) .
12. I looked over the wide he
-avens
that I had made, and I saw countless
millions of spirits Qf the d-ead, that
bad lived and died on other corporeai
worlds before the earth was made.
13. I spake in the firmament, and
My voice reached to the uttermost
places. And there came in answer to
the sounds of My voice, myriads of
angels from tbe roadway in heaven,
where the earth travelleth . I said to
them, Behold 1 A new world have I
created; come ye and enj py it. Yea,
ye shall learn from it' bow it was with
other worlds in ages past.
14. There alighted upon the new
earth millions of angels from heaven;
but many of them hacl never fulßll e<l
a corporeal life, having dil"d in infnnc,I'.
and these angels comprehended nut
procreation nor corppreal life.
15. And I said, go and deliver Asn
frorn darkness, for be shall also rise
in sP,rit to inberit My etherean
worlds.
16. And now was the eartb in the
latter days of se-mu, and tbe angela
10
B 0 0 K 0 F J E H 0 V I H. 6
conld readily take on corporeal bodies
for tbemselves ; out of the elements of
the earth clothed they tbemselvee, by
force of th eir wills, with ßesh and
bones. By the side of the Asuane took
they on corporeal forms.
17. And I said: Go ye forth and par-
take of all that is on the earth; but
partake ye not of the tree of life, lest
in that labour ye become procreators
and as if dead to the beavens wheuce
ye came.
18. II But those who had never learned
corporeal things, being imperfect in
wisdom, comprehended not Jehovih's
words, and they dwelt with the Asuans,
and were tempted, and partook of the
fruit of the tree of life; and, lo and
behold, they saw their own naked nes8.
And there was born of the first race
(Asn) a new race callecl man; and Je-
hovih took the earth out pf the tranü l
of se'mn and the angele gave up li1eir
corporeal bodies.11
19. Jehovih said: Because ye bave
raised up those that shall be j oint
heirs in heaven, ye shall tread the
earth with your fe(lt, and walk by the
sidElS of the new born, being guardian
angels over them, for they are of your
own ßesb and kin.
20. Fruit of your seed bave I quick-
ened with My spir it, ancl man sha11
come forth with a birth-right to My
etherean worlds.
21. As I have quickened the eeed of
the first born, so will I quicken all
seed to the end of the earth. And E>a0h
and every man-cbild and woman-ch1ld
born into life will I quicken with a
new spirlt, which sball proceed out of
me at the time of conception. Neithcr
will I give tp any spirit of the higlter
or lower heaven power to enter a
womb, or a fetus of a womb, and be
born again.
22. As the corporeal earth passeth
away, so shall pass away the first race
Asn; but as I pass not away, so shall
not pass away the epirit of man.
CHAPTER VII.
JEHOVIH said : Let a sign be given
.to the inhabitants of the earth
that they may comprehend dan'ha in
the firmament of heaven. Fpr even as
I bec:i.ueathed to the !lar th a time for
creatrng the living, and a time for
angels to come and partake of the fiTst
fruits of mortality and immortality,
so ehall man at certain times and sea-
sons receive testimony from My hosts
in heavim.
11
2. II And J ehovih caused tbe earth,
and the family of tha sun to tra.,.el in
an orbit, the circuit of which requir-
eth of them four million seven hun-
dred thousand years. And be placed
in the line of the orbit, at distances
of three thousand years, etherean
lights, the which places, as the earth
passeth through, angels from the
second heaven -eorne into its corporeal
pi·.
esence. As Embassaclors they come,
in companics of bundreds and thou-
sands and tens of thousands, and these
are called the etherean hosts of the
Most High.
3. Not as single individuals come
füey; not for a single individual
mortal come they.
4. And Jehovih gave this sign to man
on carth; which is to say; In the
be,;inning of the light of dan'ha, the
spirits of the newly dead shall have
power to take upon themselves the
semblance of corporeal bodi!ls, and
appear and talk face .to face with
me>rtals. Every three thousand years
gave Jehovih this sign on earth, that
those who learned the powers and
capacities of such familiar spirits,
might bear testimony in regard to the
origin of man on earth.11
Jehovih said: And when it shall
come to pass in any of the times of
dan'ha that these signs are manifest,
man sball know that the h osts of the
Most High come soon after. Let him
who will become wise, enumerate the
great lights of My serpent, for in such
times I set aside things that are old,
and establish My chosen anew.
5. II In the time of the eartb when
man was brougbt forth from mortal
to immortal life, the earth passed be-
yond se'mu, and the angels of h eaven
remained with corporeal man; but not
in the sembhmce of mortals, but as
spirits; and by virtue of tbeir pre-
sence, strove t.o make man wise and
upright before J ehovih. Upon the
earth the number of such angele was
mi!lions. To these angele spake
Jehovih, saying:
6. BE(hold the work ye have taken in
hand ! lt was commanded to you all,
to partake pf all the fruite of the earth
save of the fruit of the tree of life,
wbich is of the knowledge of the earth
and beaven, lest you lose your inherit-
ance in etherea.
7. Behold, ye now have sons and
daughters pn the earth; by your love
to them are ye become bound spirits of
the lower heaven. Until ye redeem
them in wisdom and power even to tbe
eixth generation ye ehall not again
arise and inherit My emancip~ted
beavens.
7 0 A H SPE.
8. Ta which end ye shall be co-
workers with one another in system
and order "" In My Name shali ye be-
come an organic body and known as the
heaven of the earth, or lower heaven,
which shall travel with the earth.
9. And 1 will allot unto you a Chief,
who is wise in experience in founding
heavenly kingdoms; and he shall ap-
point, frpm amongst you, officers, and
messenjl'ers, and ashars, and asaphs,
and es enaurs, and ye shall be num-
bered and apportioned unto your
labour and places like untp My other
lower heavens an other worlds.
10. And he who is Chief shall be
called God of this heaven and the
earth, unto his making bestow 1 them.
11. And God shall have a Council
and throne within his heavenly city;
and the place shall be called :S:ored,
because it is tim first kingdom of God
in this firmament.
12. And God shall rule an his
throne, for it is his; and his Council
shall rule with Him ; in My Name shall
they have dominion over angels and
mortals belonging tp the earth.
13. And God shall appoint Chiefs
unaer · him who shall go down and
dwell 0n the earth with mortals; and
such Chiefs' labaur shall be with mor-
tals for their resurr!lction. And these
chiefs shall be called lords, for they
are Gods of land, which is the lowest
rank of My commissioned Gods.
14. And God and his Lords shall
have dominion from two hundred years
to a thousand or more years; but never
more than three thousand years.
According to the regions of Dan
(light) into which I bring the earth, so
shall be the terms of the office of My
Gods and My Lords.
15. And Gad and his Lords shall
raise up officers ta be their successors;
by him and them shall they be ap-
point!ld and crowned in My Name.
16. At the termination of the do-
minion of My God and bis Lords they
shall gather touether in these \ My
bound heavens, a11 such angels as have
been prepared in wisdom and strength
for resurrection to My etherean king-
doms. And these angels shall be
called Brides and Bridegrooms to
J ehovih, for they are Mine and in My
.service.
17. And to God and his Lords, with
the Brides and Bridegrooms, will I
send down from etherea ships in the
time af dan; by My etherean Gods and
Goddesses shall tlie ships descend to
these heavens, and receive God and his
Lords with the Brid!ls and Bride-
grooms, and carry them up to the
exalted regions I have Qrepared for
them.
18. And all such as ascend shall be
called a :S:arvest unto Me through My
God and Lords. And the time of My
Harvests shall be according to each
dan, which is two huildred years, four
hundred years, six hundred years, and
five hundred years; and these shall be
called My lesser cycles, because they
are the times of the tables of prophecy
which 1 give unto My servants.
19. But at no other times, nor in any
other way, shall my Harvests ascend
to My emancipated worlds in etherea.
Seven dans have 1 created for each
and every dan'ha; and six generations
of mortals have I given unto each
dan.
20. II The angels understood the com-
mandments of J ehovih accarding to
their knowled~e in the etherean hea-
vens; being he1rs of other planets, and
having died in infancy, and having
matured in the es worlds; but they
understood not the Creator according
to the practice of the lower heavenly
kingdoms. Wherefore their know-
ledge was incomplete.11
21. J ehovih said : I condemn ye not
because ye have become joint pro-
creators with the asuans; for ye have
done two services unto Me; which are
to teach yourselves corporeal things,
that ye may understand and sympa-
thise with corpareans, and, secondly,
because ye have caused the earth to
become peopled with such as are capa-
ble of immortality.
22. Behold ye now what shall happen
on the earth : such as are of your flesh
and kin wh.o cohabit together shall
rise in wisdom and virtue; but such of
them as cohabit with the asuans will
bring forth heirs in the descending
grade of life. The first shall bring
forth heirs unto everlasting life; but
the second shall bring forth heirs that
shall go out in darkness.
23. In the dominion of which mat-
ters ypur God and Lords will instruct
you, that ye may, by inspiration and
otherwise, learn to control the beha-
viour of mortals unto everlasting life.
And that these labours be not too severe
upon ypu, I cr.eated the dans and dan'-
has in the firmament, wherein ye may
be relieved from the watch by other
angels from other worlds coming to
exchange with you.
24. This also do 1 put upon you :
That to rule aver mortals to virtue, by
your own wills governing them in all
things, is contrary to My command-
ments. For what honour hath any
man if made to da a thing P
25. But ye shall give mortale of My
12
B 0 0 K 0 F J E H 0 V 1 H. 8
light, leaving them to choose. Better
it is for them to suf!er somewhat than
to grow up in ignorance of the stings
of disobedience. 1
26. Behold, 1 make this a willing ser-
vroe on your part: because ye have
bound your af!ections to the earth, to
your own kin, ye willingly become
factories, even so shall ye ultimately
inspire man on the earth to the same
things.
34. And mortals that arß raised up
to dominion over mortals shall be
called kings and emperors. As My
Gods and My Lords a.re called My
Sons, so shall kings a11d eµiperors be
called sons of God; through him shall
they be raised up to their places, and
given dominion unto My glory.
CHAPTER VIII.
. guardian angels over mortals. Yet I
made not a separate law unto you; as
it is with you, so shall it be with the
spirits of these mortals when they are
born into the es world: They will also
desire to become guardian angels over
their mortal kin. JEHOVIH said: And God shall cause
27. But these spirits, nevßr having a record to bß kept in heaven, of
known My higher heavens, will be un- üis donünions and bis Lords. And he
suitable for the office pf ashars; they and they shall enjoin it upon their
would be but the blind leading tbe, successors forever to keep a like re-
blind. cord.
28. To prevent which, God and the 2. And in the times of My harvest a
Lords shall provil!.e thßse spirits in the copy pf these records shall be takim up
first resurrection with places to dwell to My_ etherean kingdoms and filed
in; and with occupations and oppor- with My Orian Chiefs and Archangels
tunities for education. For I desire in the roadway of the travel of the
them not to remain bound to the great serpent,' for their delib!'lrations
d · h •t M as to the progress and management <>f
earth, but to rise up an lil eri Y the inhabitants of the earth and her
etherean kingdoms. heavens.
29. And in this alsp shall ye hß dis- 3. Think not, O ye angels, that the
ereet in governing them, giving them resurrection pf your heirs, and their
the light of My heavens with some descendants that come up out of the
liberty to choose and to perfect them- earth, is an easy matter and of steady
selves. Otherwise they wou).d only be d "d f · h d f 1
Slaves in heaven. Accordina to their progress, evoi 0 · mis aps an woe u
'l darkness.
weakness or strength, so shall ye pro- 4. The angels under you shali be-
vide for these new spirits entering My come at times rßbellious and defiant;
es world. disregarding ypur laws and decrees;
30. Therefore such of you as are ap- and they shall desert your heavenly
pointed by My Gpd and My Lords as places and go down to the earth in
guardians over mortals shall be called millions and hundreds of r.i1illions.
Ashars, and ye shall report to your And they shall drive away the ashars,
respective Lords, according to the sec- and .then assume guardianship over
tion of the earth where ye may be. mortals. But they shall develop no
Of many watches shall be the ashars. righteousness under the sun, but will
31. And such of ypu as arß appointed inspire mortals to war and destruction.
to receive the spirits of the dead into And these angels will themselves take
heaven shall be called Asaphs, and ye to war and ßVil on every hand within
shall report to your respective Lords the place of your heavens.
and their kingdoms. 5. With the foul gases of atmosph&-
32. And the ashars shall make a re- rea shall they mak0 weapons of war
cord of ßVery mortal, of the grade of and places of torment. With these
his wisdom and good works; and when elements shall thßy make suffocating
' a mortal dieth, and his spirit is d&- hells in order to cast pne another in
livered to the asaphs, the record shall chaos.
be delivered with him; and the asaph, 6. And mortals who shall be slain in
receiving, shall deliver such spirit, war, shall be born in spirit in chaos
with the record into such placß in on the battle-field; in chaos shall such
these beavens as is adapted to his spirits enter the es world. And they
grade, where he shall be put to labour shall not know that they are dead,
and to school, accprding to the place of (as to earth life,) but shall still keep
the resurrectipns which 1 created. fighting right and left.
33. As Yß shall thus becolne organic 7. And enemy shall take enemy, in
in heaven, with rulers, and teachers, these heavens, and cast them in the
and physicians; and with capitals, and places of torment which they shall
cities, and provinces; and with hospi- have built, and they shall not know
tals, and nurseries, and schools, and peace or wisdom..
13
9 OAHSP~ /
8. And the werk of your heavens poreal ships, and sail across the
shall become as nothing. And ye shall oceans, that the inhabitants of dHfer-
turn to, go.in.g a_
bout deliverin& hells ent divisions of the earth may become
and the sp1nts rn · chaos. Ana your known to one another.
Jabour shall be exhauative; verily shall 14. And wh.en the inhabit atio'rl of the
you cry out because ye came and earth shall be completed, and the
peopled the earth. 1 nations shall have established civil
9. This also have I created possible - eommunion around from eaat to west,
unto My creations; for both angels in that same time will I bring the
and mortals shall learn to know the earth into the Kosmon era, and My
elements of the heavens and of the angel embassadors, G.ods and God-
earth, and to know the trials of love desses, shall render up the records of
and misfortune. these heavenly kingdoms.
10. Nor have I made wisdom pos- 15. Through them·will I reveal unto
sible unto any man or angel that mortals the creation of My worlds, and
knoweth not My elements, and the ex- the history and dominion of My Gods
tremes of evil and good which I cre- and Lords on the earth, even from this
ated.' day down to the time of kosmon.
11. But in the times of great dark- 16. II And Jehovih caused the angels
ness wh ich shall come upon earth and of atmospberea to assemble together
these heavens, lo, I will bring the and organise the "first kingdom of the
earth into dan'ha; and My ethereans · heaven of the earth. And the place
shall come in My Name and deliver was called Hored, because it was the
them. place of the first organic abiding place
12. And again for another cycle shall for the first God of this world.
they be left with the lessons given unto 17. And Hored \vas situated over and
them; but they shall fall again in above the mountains of Aotan in Ug-
course of time. But again will I de- hoqui, to the eastward of Ul, of that
liver them; through My Gods and couatry hereinafter called the contin-
Goddesses will I cause them to com- ent of Pan-.11 ' ·
prebeud the magnitude of My c:i;ea- 18. Tbus endeth the inorganic habi-
tion. tation of the earth and her atmo-
13. As ye travel from heaven to spherea.
heaven in atmospherean ships, even so
shall ye inspire mortals to build cor- END OF BOOK OF, JEHOVIH.
1 The word1 GRll:.t.T S &RPRNT mean solar phalans. See illnstra!ions In Books of Ben and Saphah.
/
16
THE BOOK OF JUDGMENT.
BEING T HE GRADES A.ND RATES OF MORTALS AND ANGELS I N
THE LIGHT OF GOD, AS THE WORD CAME TO ES, pAUGHTER
OF JEHOVIH.
CHAPTER l.
T HESE are tbe words of judgment
by the will of God, Jehovih's Son,
as rendered by Es, for the resurrection
of man:
2. H ear the words of thy God, 0
man ! I am thy eitler brotber of tens of
thousands of years' experience. Profit
thou in my wisdom,- and learn the dis-
course of thy God.
3. J ebovih, Creator of all things,
spake to me, thy God, saying: Give
ear unto Me, 0 God, My embassador
of the earth and her heavens for tbis
thy seasou-. Obey My mandates, and
teach mortals and t he angels of thy
lower heavens to know me and to re-
joice in My creations. The time is now
come when the light of thy inspiration
and thy angels shall extend around the
whole ear th and in her heavens also.
4. In all for mer cycles, My Gods bad
to deal with separate divisions of the
earth; My revelations were unto each,
for a special time, which is now at
band. I have pr~pared this land un-
tramelled with Gods and Saviours and
Lords, enforced by the sword, so that
My revelations of this- day shall be
published and not suppressed. And
thou sbalt reveal to mortals' the plan
of My worlds; and as to who t hou art,
and the method of -thy inspiration and
dominion on the earth and in h!lr hea-
ven ly kingdoms. ·
5. Thon shalt keep open the gates of
heaven for a season, and the $pirits
of the dead shall commune with
mortals, good and evil, wise and
foolish. And mortals shall see them,
and talk with them, face to face; and
they shall recognize their own kin, sons
and daughters, fathers and mothers,
brothers and sisters, the dead and the
living. ·
7. Yea, the angels shall bring from
great distances heavy substances, and
cast tbem down in the presence of
mortals, who shall see theee. things
done, and testify thereto.
8. And man shall understand, that,
even as plants and trees and fish and
serpents can be wielded by My angels.
so also can virus and pestilence be
oarried by angels of darkness to cast
mortals in death.
9. And thou shalt suffer evil spirits
and all manner of drujas, and vam-
pires and engrafters, to come, and
manifest unto mortals, t hat they may
know whereof My revelations ünfold
the matters of earth and heave:n.
10. For man shall understand what
I mean by the words : As ye live on the
earth, so shall ye reap in heaven.
11. And thou shalt suffer to fall in
darkness such mortals as consult the
angels in regard to riches, or to mar-
r.·age, or to seif, or for curiosity, or
frivolity, or for anything of an earthly
nature for profit's sake. They shall
prosper for a season, but end in being
confronted with folly and falsehood'.
12. And whoso asketh for the spirits
of great men, sufle.r ye him to be de-
ceived by drujas and all manner of
lying spirits.
13. And whoso asketh of the sar'gis
for_great men, or for Moses, or Jesus,
or Kr iste, or for any well-known name,
as applied to ancient times, su fler him
to be answered by evil spirits and
deceivers.
14. Whoso desireth the angele for
profit's sake, and he have power in
sar'gis, give unto him a band of druj as
and vampires, and l,(ive them great
power in signs and m1racles.
15. And whoso consulteth the angels,
without regard to becoming a better
man bimself, suffer bim also to become
captive to lying spirits.
16. And to all men that feed on fisb
'or flesh, suflex: thou vampires to in-
habit them.
'l~S
6. And the angels shall demonstrate
the subtlety of corporeal things, and
the capacity of one solid to pass
thrpugh a.nother solid uninjured.
:2B
II OAHS PE.
17. And to such as drink to drunken-
ness, and smoke or take narcotics,
8ufe,r thou fetals and engrafters to
come upon them.
18. And in famibes, whose heirs are
born from parents wed for earthly
considerations, suffer thou spirits of
obsession to enter and drive them mad.
19. For they shall be made to know
the meaning of the word, hell, as
applied to the lower heavens.
20. And to whomsoever worshippeth
Gods or Saviours because of miracles,
give thou them plentifully of miracles
and ,signs through unclean spirits, and
through mortal sar'gis (mediums), of
low grade. Yea, thou shalt !et spirits
of darkness a.ssume to be these very
Gods, that mortals may be made to
know what manner of evil spirits dwell
in their churches and temples.
21. And to the rich man, who maketh
pretence to righteousness, but who
doeth not toward the poor as to him-
self, give thou him a host of spirits of
hypocrisy and lying, that he may
realise the corripany he is preparing
bis own spirit for in heaven.
22. Give thou signs and miracles to
the unclean seer as weil as to the clean;
to the liar and deceiver, as well as to
the trutbful man . ,
23. For I will destroy the worship of
all Gods and Lords and Saviours on
the ground of miracles.
24. And thou shalt take great liars,
an9. give them lying spirits to speak
through them by inspiration and en-
trancement. And U1ese spirits sball
profess the names of great persons long
since dead. And they shall manifest
great oratory and wisdom and truth :
but, nevertheless, tbeir preaching shall
be of little avail for righteousness'
sake, or for good works.
25. And tbeir applauding audiences
will not contribute to the poor, nor
found any improvement on the doc-
trines of the ancients. ·
~6. For tbe spirits wbo speak through
them, shall be of the first · resurrection,
and know not Me nor tbe higber king-
doms. Verily shall tbey be of the
same order as tbe spirits who minister
in tbe churcbes and temples, being
such spirits as have not yet been
delivenid up from the eartli.
27. And some shall say: Hear thou
me. for r am God ! Some sball say :
Hear thou me, for I am the Lord!
Some- shall say : Hear thou me, for I
am Jehovih ! And other s sball profess
the names of mortals who bad great
power on th.
e earth. Suffer thou them
to do these things. ·
28. For l will make man understand
that he shall accept nothing from
angele or men because of the name
professed. On the merit only of
wisdom and trutb, and such good doc-
trines as raise illfilD up out of darkness
and poverty and crimfil, shall they
accept either spoken or written words.
29. And they sball try to organize to
carry out good works, but they shall
fail. For many will desire to be
L
eaders, being under the influence of
selfish considerations, desiring the
applause pf men.
30. And they will profess freedom,
but they will not pledge themselves to
any sacrifice, either of money or
opinion for sake of the public good.
31. And little good shall come out of
their works, and even less peace of soul
shall comß unto them. For tbey shall
dispute and quarre!, being divided in
all tbeir ideas and philosophies and
sentiments and in their' nnderstanding
of My kingdoms.
32. For, by this means, shalt thou
show them they are under the inspira-
tion of the unorganized es world; and
of spirits who have not yet entered
into My resurrections, which I created
for them. But in the time of the light
of My revelations, tbou shalt raise up
a few, hßre and there, capable of the
All Light. And these thou shalt cause
to form a basis for My kingdom on
earth.
33. And they shall forswear all Gods
and Lord& and Saviours, but profess
Me, the Great Spirit, J ehovih.
34. And they shall pledge themselves
unto one another in fulness, as brotbers
and sisters, hol<ling their possessions
in common.
35. To live for sake of perfecting
themselves and others in spirit, and
fo r good works.
36. 1'hey shall eat not fish nor flesh
of any creature that breathed the
breath of life.
37. And keep the seventh day as a
day of communion witb Me and My
angel hosts.
38. With rites and ceremonies, ex-
planatory of all tbe qoctrines in the
world.
39. Practising good for evil; non-
resistance to persecution and abuse.
40. An9. abj ure war; even, if neces-
sary, by submitting to death rather
than takß part tberein.
41. And they shall become an organic
body in communities of t ens and
t wenties and hundreds and thousan<ls.
42. But they shall have no leaders,
only th eir Creator; but be organic, for
sake of gopd wprks.
75'
T HE B 0 0 K 0 F J U DG M E N T.
•
43. But they shall not go about
preaching for sinners to go to repent-
ance.
44. Nor preaching for charity to the
poor.
45. But · they shall go themselves
about gathering up sinners, and the
poor and helpless and orphans; and
bring them into comfortable homes,
teaching them how to live, to be a
glory unto Me and My kingdoms.
46. To such persons shall My angele
from the s!Jt.ond resurrection come.
and m,inister in My Name for the joy
of the earth.
47. And when such people die, they
shall be received into the second resur-
rection, escaping the first.
48. Neither shall any other people in
all the world escape the place of the
first resurrection.
49. Be the_y kings, or gueens, or
beggars, or Brahmane, or Buddhists,
or Kriste'yans, or Mohammedans, or
any other pretenders in beaven or
earth.
50. Behold, the day of preaching and
. professions is at an end. I will have
practice only.
51. Whoso is not in My organic king-
doms on earth, shall go into My inor-
ganic kingdoms in heaven.
52. Like un to like, created I the
heavens and the earth, and all things
therein.
CHAPTER II.
Learning to speak by entrancement or
by inspiration, they shall imagine
themselves controlled by certain angels,
when, in fact, it is only their own
spirit, eliminated from the corporeal
senses.
8. Others, being influenced, shall
imagine it is themselves and not an
angel, whereas it is an angel speaking
through them. This was the case of
Ka'yu. Both are good, and shall be
practised.
9·, Let no man concern himself as to
whether it be the spirit of himself or
an angel; for it is only the subject
uttereq which is of value. In this day,
all things shall stand on their own
merit, and not on a supposed authority.
10. And Jet not him who speaketh
with bis own spirit, judge others to
be the same; nor yet the reverse of
this; for no two in all the world are
alike.
11. To them that have not experi-
enced elimination of the spirit-self
from the corporeal seif, all speech is
believed to be of the corporeal senses
only, -or of a diseased condition: Such
men are not to be blamed for their
interpretation; rather shall Ye pity
them, and not answer them.
_ 12. For many such, even after death,
will not admit they are dead, because
of the darkness upon them.
13. lt is wiser for the spiritual-
minded to keep to themselves, especi-
ally when communing with Jehovih
and His angels. For a greater wonder
than these will follow : Some will enter
GOD, embassador of Jehovih, saith: the trance of the first resurrection, and
Ye shall assemble for the commu- go in spirit out of the body, but only
nion of angels regularly( and main- subjdctively; •others will enter the
tain intercourse with them. For in no trance of the second resurrection, and
other way can ye demonstrate the con- go in spirit out of the body objectively.
tinued life of the Spirit. And the first shall not believe but the
2. Doing this in the Name of J ehovih, second was like himself, going only
and for spiritual light: in regard to subjectively. No two men in all the
spiritual things. / world have 1 created alike, saith J eho-
3. Whoso consulteth the spirits for vih. Even many, after death, are not
earthly things shall fall in darkness. capable of entering the second resur-
4. But when ye assemble, let no man rection objectively. He that is in sub-
nor spirit be as a spectator to others. jective state, speaketh and writeth
But as all men labour in the field to from the earth, looking upward; he
gather the harvest, so shall all mem- that cometh of the objective heavens,
bers in the assembly, by prayer or by speaketh and writeth as one come
music, contrfüute a glory unto the down from My kingdoms to the earth.
Father. , 14.. Two conditions will manifest:
5. Retaembering that the humblest Subjective spiritualists will affiliate
prayer, even with weak words, if given with the world's peoI>le, being deniers
with a full he~rt, is as strong unto of the Ever Present Person, and they
Jehovih il.s the best oratory. will pursue earthly avocations for seif
6. From all men the spirit shall pour sake;_ but objective spiritualists will
forth unto the Father in praise, be .1raithists, believers in the Ever
aooording to what hath been created Present Person, Jehovih, Whom they
unto it. Neither is more required of will worship not only in words, but by
any man. abjuring self, and uniting themselves
7. But thie shall happen unto many: in brotherhoods, for eake of doing good
755
O AHSPE.
unto otheTs. These latter are the chosen
people of the Fatl;ter of t he kosmon era,
and they will become supreme in all
the world.
15. These three peoples, the world's
people, the believers and the Faithists,
have been in all ages of t he world. 'l'he
latteT oniy of them all practiseth har-
mony and good works. Both of the
otbers aTe resistants, quarrellers and
warriors and disintegrators and break-
ers-down of all tbings.
16. Yet, the Faithists, having faith
in the All Person, shall ultimately
possess the whole earth, and make it a
paradise Qf peace and love.
17. As the first is bouri·d in the flesh,
and aa tbe second is bound by the
badan spir.its, so is the Faitbist bound
unto J ebovih, which is emancipation.
As the second can ·commune with the
spirits of the first r esurrection, so
can tbe Faitbist commune with the
Father thr ough the second r esurrec-
tion.
18. Nevertheless, this shall bappen:
Tbe second sball say : My angels are
high, t hine are low ! Or they shall
as,k : How know ye yuur light is higher
than ours?
19. And the F aitbists shall answer
them, saying: We know no high, no
low. We give up all things, in order
to ser ve Jebovih by doing good works
unto our fel lows.
20. And Jehovih shall judge betwixt
them, as to which is high or low; not
by their wor ds, but by tbeir works.
21. And the signs of good works and
self-abnegation sball be as a witness
before tbe world ; whence cometh the
inspiration of each.
25. But whoso hat h found the All
Person, bis knowledge is greateT than
all. And none below him can judge
him. Neither can any man attain to this
knowledge till he hath passed t hr ough
tbe other two conditions.
26. No man knowetb the Creator, un-
less he hath proven tbe communion of
spirits. Neither can any man rise to
tbe second r esurrection, till he ha-tb
'.ri.e<>n to faith in the All One, Jehcivib.
27. Neit ber shall tbe Brahmau, nor
Mohammedan, nor Buddhist, nor
Kri9te'yan j oin in the second resur r ec-
tion on earth or in heaven.
28. For they have not t.he doctrine of
unit; t hey are as a J.ouse divided
against itself. Tbeir coionies and com-
munities shall fail in all cases.
29. There shall be but one doctrine,
which is Jehovih, the All Person, who
is Ever Present ; with good wo,ks done
unto others, with all of one's wisdom
and strength.
30. And this shall prevail with tbe
young; whom, as orpbans and casta
ways, ye sball gather up in infancy
fouoding them in the light of Jehovib.
teaching them from the start to sing
and pi·ay unto Him, in reverence and
fear and joy, that He may be glorified
in their purity and good works.
31. And they shall grow up of all
nationalities, and races, knowing not :
This is mine, or that is mine, or that
is tbine, but understanding that they
own nothing, and that all things are
Jehovih's.
1
CHAPTE R III.
22. Let no man say that only seers TRE JUDGll!ENT UPON TRE BRARll!ANB, TRE
and propbets and such persons as work BUDDRISTS, TBE KRISTE'YANS, THE ll!ORAlll-
signs and miracles are under the infl11- ll!EDANS, TRE CONFUCIANB, TRE JEWS AND
ence of spir its; for even as much . as ALL OTRER PEOPLEB ON EARTR, IN TRE
these, so are other mortals under the woaos OF GOD.
dominion of spirits. Yea, the infidel,
the disbeliever , the philosopher, the THINK not, 0 ma a, that 1 am in-
lawyer, t he judge, the preacher, the sufficient to the times and seasons.
,fanatic, and all others, are more con- Or say thou that God spake in the
t rolled by t he spir its of the dead than dar k days ·of the ear th, but latter ly
by their own per sonal spirit. And holdeth bis tongue.
the mo:re a man's spirit is wr apped up 2. Behold, l am thy elder br other,
in bis own corporeality, the more is and even as a capi:am of the ear th and
he subject to vampires and spirits of her heavens for a season. As 1 am,
darkness. even so were my predecessors in the
23. Neither knowet h the philosopher time of the ancients:
whether bis ideas come from J ehovih 3. Embassadors o'f the Most H igh,
or from the spirits of the dead. J ehovih !
24. Whosoever bath witnessed and 4. Whose power and wisdom are
knowetb of a truth t hat he hath seen given unto me, even after tbe same
the spirits of the dead, that know- manner as are thy earthly kingdoms
ledge is impregnable. And whoso hath governed and disciplined.
enter ed the second resurrection, even 5. Whereby order may contribute to
though in mort ality, tihat k<nowledge is the resurrection of all of Hilil created
:mpregnable. beings.
756
THE BOOK OF JUDGMENT. 5
6. First, l charge thee that whoso the same is a falsifier of my kingdoms
saith : Gon, Gon! calleth in vain. and a blasphemer against Jehovih.
7. l am not come to establish, but to 23. And whoso saith : Com: TB!JU
abolish all Gods and Lords and Saviours BEFORE TBE CHURCR, AND BEFORE TBE PRIES'f.
amon~sl mortals. AND MAKE PRAYERS AND CONFESS!ONS, A
ND
8. For what is past, is past. TROU SRALT BE ABBOLVED AND FORGIVEN TRY
9. But whosoever, henceforth, hear- SINS, the same arE> falsifiers of my king-
eth my word and tbe decree of my com- doms and blaspheniers against J eho-
mandment, and continueth to make an vih, the Creator.
idol of any name, save the Great Spirit, 24. Nor have l provided resurrection
blasphemeth against his Creator. in this world, nor in my . heavens
10. But whoso crieth out in fulness above, save by good works ·done unto
of heart, saying Gon, Gon ! meaning others; and this is serving J ehovih,
thereby the Ever Present, the Creator, the All Person; and not because of any
is not a blasphemer before me. worship or confessions done before any
, 11. And whoso saith: ÜRMAZD, ÜR- of the id.ols on earth or in heaven.
MAZD! meaning the Ever Present, the 25. Nor is there any redemption in
Creator, is not a blasphemer before heaven to the Bra hmans, nor to the
me. Buddhists, nor to the Kriste'yans,
12. And whoso calleth any name in because of their prayers and con-
any language that signifieth the Ever fessions.
Present, the Creator, is not a blas- 26. But wherein good works have
phemer before me. resulted in affiliation; a,nd in lifting
lS. But whoso saith: BRAHMA, the people up out of misery and crime,
BaARMA ! signifying a God in figure and the same is adj udged as worship of the
shape of a man, sitting on a throne in Great Spirit Jehovih.
heaven, is a blasphemer against Jeho- 27. Wherein the Brahmans have
vih, the Ever Present, the Creator. suffered a people to fall from know-
14. And who.so saith: BUDDHA, Bun- ledge into ignorance, or from virtue
DRA ! signifying a God in figure and into vice, my judgment is against
shape of a man, sitting on a throne in them.
heaven, is a blasphemer against Jeho- 28. Wherein the Buddhists have suf-
vih, the Ever Present, the Creator. fered a people to fall from knowledge
15. And whoso saith: KRISTE, KRISTE ! into ignorance, or from virtue into
signifying a God in the fig11re and vice, my i udgment is against them.
shape of a man, sitting on a throne "in 29. Wherein the Ka'yuans have suf-
heaven, is a blasphemer against Jeho- fered a people to fall from knowledge
vih, the Creator, the All Person. into ignorance, or from virtue into
16. And whoso calleth on the name vice, my judgment is against them.
of any other man or angel, wqrship- 30. Wherein the Kriste'yans have
ping such as a God, ~s an idolater m suffered ·a J?00ple to fall from 1 know-
my sight. ledge into ignorance, or from virtue
17. Nor do I judge them less idola- into vice, my judgment is against
trous than though they worshipped them. 1
stone idols or graven images. 31. Wherein the Mohammedans have
18. And whosoever saith: DEITY, suffered a people to fall from know-
DEITY ! and DrvINITY, DrvINITY 1 and ledge into ignorance, or from virtue
DIVINE LAW and NATURAL LAW, are ad- into vice, my judgment is againat
judged in darkness. them.
19. For l proclaim my heavens open, 32. Where beggary and vagranc and
and the way of understanding clear. all manner of darkness have increased
20. Jehovih is Ever Present, and in any of the cities or countries of any
doeth by virtue of His Presence, and of these idolaters, my judgment is
not by any law. against them.
21. And whoso saith that which will 33. They shall not excnse themselves,
lead men to believe He is not Present, nor escape my judgment, by saying:
or that He hath gone away, leaving 0 the true Brahman, or the true Budd-
certain laws after Him in His stead, hist, or the true Mohammedan ha.th
the same is adj udged a. blasphemer not fallen. These, that feil, were such
against Jehovih. as embraced not our doctrine in ful-
22. And whoso saith: CALL TROU ON ness of heart.
rHIB SAVlOUR, OR CALL TROU ON TRAT 84. Because my judgment is also
BAVIOUR, AND THY SINS SB.\LL BB FORGIVEIN against impotency. They have t.ried
THEE; AND, IN TRE ROUR OF TRY DEATH, their respective religions hundreds of
8ECAUSEI THOU HAST so CALLED ON RIM, TROU years. And they have not ra.ised up
SBALT ABCEND lNTO A WIAVENL}' PA·RADIBB, one city of ;righteoua people.
75'l
OABSPE.
95. Wherefore 1 have come to put
theee doctrines away, and give them
that which shall prove itself potent
in all the world. .
36. That which 1 proclaim, shall be
proclaimed by the angels of the second
resurrection, unto all nations and
peoples.
37. My light is not to one people
<>nly, save to the rit;:hteous, who serve
the Creator by domg good unto all
men. In my s1ght, the nations of the
divieions of the earth are as one people
only, brothers and sisters.
38. 1 take from all of them their
idols, their Gode; but I give them a
greater, even the Creator.
39. I say to them : I suffered my
children to have idols; but no'w that
ye are men, put away your idols, and
accept J ehovih,Whois the Creator of all.
40. Nor shall any man more say: 1
worship the Brahman principle, or
the Buddhist principle, or the Ka'yuan
princip'le, ·or the Kriste'yan principle,
or the Mohammedan principle. For
all of these have proved themselves to
result in war and destruction.
41. None of them have faith in Jeho-
vih, but faith in their armies of
eoldiers, and in their weapons of
death.
42. But 1 give unto all people one
principle only, which is to serve Jeho-
vih. This is broad enough for the
redemption and resurFection of all
men. And I will have none other.
43. Seek, thou, 0 man, oo believe in
the All Person, Who is Ever Present,
Whose eye is upon thee, Whose ear
heareth thee ; for He is the All One,
Who is the password to the highest of
heavene.
44. And thou mayest call on thy idol
at the gates of my heavens, but the
gatee ehall not be opened unto thee.
For 1 will have no quarre! in my
exalted kingdoms in heaven as to Gode
and Lords and Savioure.
45. Till thou art washed clean of
them; coming in spotless white, a eer-
vant of the Most High, thou canst not
withetand the light of my kingdome in
heaven.
46. But thou shalt return in spirit to
the earth, and abide in the church and
temple of thy chosen God, wandering
about in stubbornness of heart, a
prey to druj as and vampires and other
angele of darkness.
CHAPTER IV.
THE NUMBERS OF THE OTUDGMENT, lN TUB
WORDS OF GOD.
H EAR the words of thy God, 0
man; 1 am thy eitler brother,
the captain of heaven and earth.
2. Wherefore declare 1 unto thee in
this day, the same shall be testified to
by millions of angele unto mortals ere
one generation pass away.
3~ Of Brahman angele in the lowest
of heavens, as wanderers on the earth,
there are this day more than four
thousand millions.
4. Of Buddhist angele in the loweet
of heavens, as wanderers on the earth,
there are this day mors than seven
thousand millions.
5. Of Ka'yuan angele in the lowest
heavens, as wanderers on the earth,
there are this day mors than three
thousand miilions.
6. Of Kriste'yan angele in the lowest
heavens, as wanderers on the earth,
there are this day more than three
thousand millions.
7. Of Mohammedan angele in tbe
lowest heavens, as wanderers on the
earth, there are this day more than
two thousand millions.
8. Of J ewish angele in the lowest
heavens, as wanderers on the earth,
there are this day more than ·thirty
millions.
9. And of other angele, idolatrous
and utherwise, even on the earth, more
than twelve thousand miliions.
10. And of all these angele not one is
above grade five, in the first resur-
rection.
11. But of such ,ae are below grade
one, there are more than six thousand
millions, being mostly such angele as
know nothing more than babes,
though, for the most part, they were
f.ull-grown adults as to earth-life.
Some are fetale, some engrafters, who
dwell with one mortal during his life-
time, and then engraft themselves on
another mortal during his lifetime, and
so on, calling themselves re-incarnated,
and, in fact, knowing no other heavens,
bein~ disbelievers in the All Person
and m my exalted kingdoms.
12. Such as are below grade one, thy
God hath classed as druj as, being
spirits that have not left tbe earth and
are bound to mortals.
13. They inhabit mostly the oldest
cities, and places of filth and inde-
cency; nevertheless, they also inhabit
the palaces of kings and queens and
emperors and popes and priests and
rich men.
47. Have faith, 0 man, in Him
Who created thee alive, about Hirn
there can be no mistake. Glorify Hirn
by righteous works, having faith, that
even as Be brought thee into life, so
will He provide unto thee, according
to thy just deserts.
14. Of grade one there are hundreds
of millions of angele strolling about
758
THE BOOK OF JUDGMENT. 7
on the earth, crying out: I want to go
to Brahma, I want to go to Buddha, I
want to go to Jesus, I want to go to
Kriste.
15. And I send my hosts of high-
raised angels to them, saying : Come
ye to the kingdoms of J ehovih, and be
clothed and fed, and learn to clothe
and feed others, for this is the way of
resurrection.
27. But it hath been proved, and it
shall be proved again, that all brother-
hoods on ear th founded on any of the
idols in heaven, shall not stand.
28. Because there is no second re-
surrection to minister unto them.
29. And all societies and constitu-
tions and by-laws founded by men, not
capable of the second rcsurrection,
shall fail.
30. But whosoever establisheth in
the second resurrection, which is the
abnegation of seif to serve J ehovih,
shall not fail.
CHAPTI<JR V.
16. But they will not believe, but
turn away in stubbornness of haart,
even as ye of the earth, saying: Nay,
I will rise only by prayers and con-
fessions. I want to be changed in a
moment, in the twinkling of an eye, and
rise and sit on the right hand of God.
17. And there are hundreds of OF TBE JEWB.
millions who, being dead, know not HEAR the words of thy God, 0
anything; but, through belief in a Israel. Shut not thyself up against
judgment day, went to slellp, and are the wisdom of thy elder brother, God
waiting for the trumpet of Gabriel to of heaven and earth.
call them forth. 2.-Nor \lllagnify thou the ancient
18. And I send my exalted ones to days above the present; nor feign and
them to awake them up, and call them say, thy God is gone away to come no
up; but they are drunk with their more forever.
faith, and they relapse again and 3. Behold, thou hast gone forth as a
again, for years and JJ:ears, for hun- little man to battle against a giant.
~~~! . ~~~~~~~~
19. Fulfilling J ehovih's mandate, that with thy ONE God, J ehovih !
whatsoever is bound on earth shall be 4. Thou wast encompassed on all
bound in heaven. sides by a multiplicity of Gods; one
20. And, even as one drunken man on by one thou hast overcome them, and
eatth enticeth another to drunkenness, cast them out.
so are there hundreds of millions of 5. The giant of the great beast, the
idolatrous angele, who return to mor- false Gods, lieth ·dead and cold at thy
tals and persuade them to their same feet. '
doctrines and their same debaucheries. 6. The nations of the earth cry out :
21. H-ear· the words of thy God, 0 There is but one Great Spirit, ·
man, and be wise in thy judgment: Jehovih !
He Who created thee alive, gave to 7. And I declare unto thee, 0
thee of His Own Being. Be thou Israel, the Voice of the I AM is not
steadfast unto Him, and thou shalt gone from the earth.
not err, but eliminate thyself from the 8. Through the seed of the Faithists
chance of error. have I held up the Father's kingdom;
22. He alone is unmistakably thy by the voice of my beloved founded
eure foundation, in Whom thou shalt Him in all the nations of the earth.
not be tripped up. 9. Thy enemy exulted, saying : Be-
23. Sufficient unto thee and thy hold, they are a scattered people !
resurrection is thy Creator. Where- 10. But thy God1
profited in thy
fore, in thy soul thou shailt abjure all footsteps, and in the words of thy
Gods and Lords and Saviours. mouth: There is but one Great Spirit,
24. Neither shalt thou try to exalt Jehovih !
His Name by adding thereunto any 11. And I have provlded unto thee,
name in the shape and figure of man, after the manner of thy forefathers, a
nor by any one of woman born. place to inhabit, where thou shalt no
25. Seek thou to attain to His voice longer pay tribute to the Gods of the
in all things, and to obey Him for idolaters.
righteousness' sake. Be not stubborn 12. Come thou out of the darkness
in thy conceit. of despotism, and inherit the wilder-
26. In thy singlenees of purpose thou ness of this land. And they shall
shalt be ministered unto by the spirits bloom as a new paradise before thy
of the fil'st resurrection; but, as thou hand.
unitest thyself in a br,otherhood on 15. But, because thou hast accom-
earth, in the Name of Jehovih, so shalt plished the ÜNE Ena P11.EBBNT, behold,
thou be ministered unto by the light thou shalt no longen be an exclusive
of my second resurrection. peopfo; but shalt sufler thy eone and
759
8 OA.l:iSPE.
daughters to commingle with the
Faithists of all the races and tribes of
men. .
14. And thou shalt forsake the ways
of the world, and go, and live after
the manner of thy forefathers, in
colonies, without kings or rulers;
serving none but Jehovih.
15. And thy people shall hold all
things in common, being neither rich
nor poor; master nor servant. And
thou shalt call out to the idolater,
saying : Come into my house, and be
one with me. Behold, there is but one
Creator; thou art my brother.
16. And it shall come to pass unto
thee, 0 Israel, the way of thy people
shall be open, and they shall be de-
livered out of the bound kingdoms of
the aast.
17. Because, for two thousand years
thou hast not gone forth with the
blaspheme Jehovih and His kingdoms.
I say unto thee, they shall prosper by
satan; and their prospenty is the
wages of bondage in heaven.
28. And because of their wickedness,
they have led my people to disbelieve
in my jnstice and the plans of my
kingdoms.
29. For which reason, more are they
apostatized in my si11ht than such as
are good, who say: <J;here is n9 God.
30. Throw open thy doors, 0 Israel;
my angels stand at the threshold.
These, my words, which I have told to
thee beforehand, shall be corroborated
by hundreds of thousands of witnesses
from my heavens.
31. Seek fo r the resurrection of thy
soul, 0 Israel, that J ehovih may be
glorified in thee, forever and !!Ver !
swor.d to possess any new country, and
establish thyself, thou art glorified CHAPTER VI.
before thy God. OF' REBURRECTION. · IN TRI! WORDB OF' GOD.
18. Beoause of thy long suffering,
thou shalt find peace through the WHETHER on earth or in heaven,
light of my kingdoms. Behold, a new the same rules apply unto both :
cycle is upon the earth; thy people 2. He that serveth himself one-half,
shall find proof of these my words. and serveth others one-half, shall
19. My angels will come into the stand grade fifty. ·
houses of thy people, and they shall 3. He that serveth himself three-
talk with them face to face. quarters, and others one-quarter, shall
20. Think not that this book is mine stand grade twenty-five.
only revelation in this day; within 4. He that serveth himself one-quar-
thine house, 0 Israel, shalt thou pre- ter, and others three-quarters, shall
pare unto the voice of thy God. stand grade seventy-five.
21. For I will raise up many seers 5. He that serveth himself only, shall
and prophets amongst thy people. stand grade one.
And they shall testify to my words on 6. He that serveth others only, shall
all sides. stand grade ninety-nine. •
· 22. Judge thou not, 0 'Israel, who 7. And whoso serveth accordingly,
are apostates before thy God. I say himself or others, shall stand in grade
unto thee : He that forsaketh J ehovih even as his works manifest.
and worshippeth mammon and the 8. To serve one's seif is to work for
ways of the world, is an apostate in one's seif; to strive for one's seif, to.
my sight. For, even though they main- think of one's own seif, as to what will
tain the rites and ceremonies, they profit one's own self only.
have forsaken the spirit and truth of 9. To serve others is to do good unto
my oommandments. ' , othcrs; to help them; to teach them;
23. Whereas, many who have for- to give them joy and comfort. This is
saken the rites and ceremonies in the service of Jehovih.
search of higher light, are more to the 10. Bnt there are some who are below
way of Jehovih. the grades; who seek to do evil; who
24. Do they not, indeed, keep the seek to make others unhappy; who
rites and ceremonies, but drink to delight in crime and pollution. Thes~,
drunkenness, and eat to gluttony, ü mortal, shall be called Druks, and if
feasting on flesh, wherefrom they have spirits, shall be called drujas.
taken life? 11. After such manner, in 'general,
25. And they engage in selling wine, d f h f th
and in dealing in st'ocks, after the are the gra es o my eavens o e
d 1 Wh.) t th earth, atmospherea.
manner of the i o ater· 1
s Y 12. Grade one is on the earth; grade
forefathers were scrupillous to labour, fifty, midway betwixt the earth and
and bring forth out of the earth, h
wherewith to feed and clothe man. the emaucipaterl heavens, et erea.
26. And they say : God prospered me 1 13. Grade twenty-five is one-quarter
27. Wherein füey falsify me, and way up from the earth, toward
"°
THE BOOK OF JUDGMENT. D
etherea; but grade seventy-five is three-
quarters way upward, toward etherea.
And so on, r elatively, grade and place
of ascent intermediately.
14. But grade ninety-nine is the
highest atmospherean grade, prepara-
tory to entrance into the com;pany of
the all pure in spirit.
15. But good works alone are not suf-
ficient to attain the highest grades, for
they r equire knowledge and capacity
to unfold others.
16. To accomplish which, those of
the higher grades shall oft return to
the lower, and learn to lift them up.
For this is that which calleth the
ethereans in the times of resurrections.
17. Wherein the righteous, w_ho are
yet mortal, begin at once lifting up
their fellows.
18. Which labour is to the spirit as
exercise is to the mortal body, that
which giveth strength.
19. J udge, then, thyself, 0 man of
the earth, as to the place thy spirit
1vill rise to in the time of thy death.
withal, consider thou the grade of thy
spirit and the bondage upon thee.
11. Thou shalt take that for ·which
thou hast fitted thyself, according to
what thou hast done.
CHAPTER VIII.
H EAR my words, 0 man, and be
considerate of the i ustice of thy
Creator.
2. These are my exhibits, which I
place before thee, that thou shalt not
err:
3. And thou be a rich man, and
adorn a city by donating unto it a
park, with statuary and pleasure-
walks, hoping to glorify thyself
thereby, and be praised by men;
therein thyself burieth thyself in the
first resurrection. And the act lower-
eth thy grade instead of raising it.
4. For in whatsoever thou givest,
thou shalt consider, first, the lowest df
the low, whether they have bread to
eat, and a place to sleep : And the sick,
whether they have attendance and good
provision.
5. And thou be a rich man, and
CHAPTER VII.
, contrihute a house for orphans or for
A MAN may be wise as to books and the helpless and aged who cannot help
philosophy and mathematics and themselves, it raiseth thee in grade.
poetry and great learning, and yet be 6. But so far as thou doeth this for
low in grade as to spirit. the applause of men, thou detracteth
2. A man may know little of all such from the rate of thy ben.eficence.
knowledge, and may be poor withal, 7. Neither dot h such a good wor k
but by hardship and exper ience help thee more than the poor man
developed in sympathy and good works helpeth his own grade by assisting
done uuto ot hers, and be high in grade one poor orphan.
as to spirit. 8. For thy resurrection dependeth
3. So also may it be with spirits that not on the quantity thou givest, but
manifest t hrough you as great orators, as to whether thou givest accqrding to
who stand even ·in the lowest grade in what thou hast. Of which matter thou
heaven. shalt judge thyself.
4. Let not thyself deceive thyself, 0 9. For he who giveth a penny may be
man, as to thy knowledge, or thy raised up more by so doing, than he
speech or professions. tbat giveth ten thousand.
5. Thou hast the scales in thine own 10. A certain rich man, being con-
hands, and shall, soon or late, weigh verted from the desires of earth, went
thyself justly, and take thy place, about casting his money freely in the
even .as thou hast prepared thyself. streets, and in giving to those who
6. Nor flatter thyself that thou canst asked him therefor. .
cheat heaven, or change the ways 11. And some gat hered it up, and fed
thereof. and clothed themselves; others took of
7. Nor hide thyself behind doctrines. it, and went and got drunk, and
or behind t he promises of Gods or became worse than before.
Saviours. 12. The measure of righteousness of
8. Old things are done away, and that man's behaviour was not in giving
none of these things shall avail thee what he had to the poor, but in the
on earth or in heaven. good and evil that came of it, being
9. Be thou king or queen or judge or weighed, as to which outbalanced the
servant, the same j udgment sha,II stand other.
upon all. 13. And where he lowered the grade
10. When the garment is gone, and of them that received t his money, or
the diadem and riches and the flesh where he lowered a greater number
761
10 OAHSPE.
than he raised, there his act of casting
the money away was a judgment
against him.
14. H e who giveth, saying: Here,
thou beggar ! doeth a good corporeal
act, but an evil spiritual act. He
lifteth up witli his band, but in jureth
with his tongue. Such an act de-
t racteth frem the grade of that man.
15. A cer tain rieb man, being con-
verted to do good works, went and
built a score of soup-houses to feed the
poor gratuitously.
30. Consider not so much what tho1
shalt do to raise thine own grade, bu
what thou canst do to raise t he grad·
of those within thy reach.
31. Remember, all men and wome1
ar e t hy brothers and sisters, and tho1
shalt labour t o make t hem mak
themselves a glory unto the Creator.
CHAPTER IX.
16. And all t he poor people of that REMEMBER thy Creator and th.
town went therein and were fed. But magnitude of His creations. Be
the next year, behold, there were t wice fore Hirn thou art but an atom, an•
as many poor. And • the rich man as only oue small creature.
built another score of soup-houses, and 2. Nevert heless, a multitude oi
they were all fed. people ma.ke a nation, with cities anrl
17. But the next year, there were hamlets.
still twice as many poor people to 3. These are also graded by thy God,
feed; but the rieb man had exhausted according to the ascendency or the
his means, and could_feed none a,t all. declension of the whole.
18. Judgment is t herefore rendered 4. If a city, then the grades of all
against that man for his supposed the people shall be summed together
benevolence. in a scale of one hundred.
19. F or, whilst he did a little cor- 5. And if a nation, then the grades
poreal good, he did a great spiritttal of the cities and hamlets, and of
wrong, because he lower ed t he grade people of isolation, shall be summed
of manhood and womanhood in those together in a scale of a hundred.
that he fed. H is benevolence pro- 6. lrnd if ha lf the people are above
moted dependence. g-rade fifty, and half below füty, the
20. A rich man founded a place of grade of that people shall be fifty.
labour for the poor, who had nothing 7. If one-quarter only, then the grade
to eat .and nowhere to sleep. And he of that people shall be twenty-five.
said unto t hem : / 8. On the basis of individual grades,
21. The Creator hath given you hands shall be the grad.es of a city and of a
to work with; come ye, be men and nation.
women. 9. And the behaviour of a city or a
22. And they went and worked and nation shall be graded in the same
earned their Iiving. way, after the manner of an individual.
23. Judgment is rendered in favour 10. A cer tain nation built alms-
of that man, for he raised t he spiritual houses and asylums sufficient for the
grade of the poor. This is a benevo- needy, and, by its tyranny, made an
lence that extendeth into heaven. equal number of needy ones. That
24. Let thy charity be to t he sick and nation raised not its gra'de for the good
helpless, but be thou wise in directing it had done.
the .able-bodied to help themselves. 11. Another nation built no alms-
25. For all charity teudeth to lower houses, but, by its wholesome laws.
the self-respect of the receiver, and . there were none needed. That naticm
casteth him lower in the grades in raised its grade m any-fold.
heaven. 12. And yet another nation main-
26. Certain ones depend on alms, not tained a standing army, in order to
having either sickness nor yet strong maintain itself. That nation stood in
bodies. Nevertheless were they aroused, grade one only.
they could support themselves. 13. The place of this last nation, in
27. When thou givest them regularly, entrance into the es wor ld, shall be
they depend upon thee. These become grade one, which is the animal region,
beggars in the lowest grades in heaven. which is on the ear th .
28. That which thou givest them 14. Whoso dwelleth in such a land,
accounteth against thi:b.e own grade. though he have a good individual grade,
Better is it for thee and for them, that shall suffer deduction in· the r atio of
thou arouse them from their degrada- the grades of different nations of the
tion. eartli.
29. To do this tenderly and merci- 15. But whoso dwelleth in a nation
fully is a great virtue; to do it cruelly high in grade, shall be aecended in hie
is a great crime. own mdividual gr ade.
76ll
/
THE BOOK OF JUDGME NT. 11
16. As these grades are on ear th, so
they correspond in the heavens thereof.
In all cases depending on what one
doeth for the resurrection of others.
17. IJ a city, or nation, or a kingdom
in heaven do unto others in resurrec-
tion, then it shall be credited accord-
ingly.
18. But if there be no gain in the
good that any of these do, they shall
receive no grade.
19. But if they increase in raising
individual grade, then are such cities
and nations rising in grade.
20. Consider thy nation, 0 man, oii.e
generation with another ;.and as the re-
lative proportion of individual grades
rise or fall, so shalt thou determine
whether thy nation is ascending or
falling in grade. Number its paupers
and criminals as 'to increase or de-
crease.
21. Consider not its wealth, nor its
ships, nor its armies, nor its great·
buildings. These all together are only
one grade, and are of no value as to
the spiritual grade of its people.
22. For the strength and life of thy
nation depend on its spiritual grade.
Pursue this, and thou shalt prophesy
truly as to the growth or the downfall
of a nation.
23. Pursue this also with regard to
the nations of the eartb, and thou
shalt determine the relative place of
thine own nation in the es world.
CHAPTER X.
THOU art rememLered, 0 man, by
thy God, and admonished and in-
~tructed for thy soul ·s saKe that thou
mayest become a glory to thy Creator
and to thyself.
2. Hear, then, thy responsibility and
the extent thereof, and eonsider the
magnitude of thine own grade on earth
and in heaven.
3. Which is in proportion to the
power and the distanee of thy reach.
Which 1 have also graded nnto all men
on earth and in heaven.
4. If thy Creator give thee strength
to carry fou r men on th y back, and
thou wilt carry but one, t hou shalt be
ons-quarter grade. But if thou
carriest the whole four, thou shalt be
full grade.
5. One man hath wherewithal to feed
one man; another hath sufficient for a
nothing more can be exacted of them,
on earth or in heaven.
6. Yet, when they have all fulfilled
these to the utmost, they shall be
therein only equal in grade.
7. But if they fail in their parts,
the responsibility of one shall be a
hundred thousand; and another shall
be ten thousand, aud the least sha ll
be only one. · These are the debts men
owe the people of the nation, the city
and the hamlet.
8. Consider,therefore, the darkness of
the people of thy nation; the poverty
and the crime; and j udge thyself as to
thine own r espousibility.
9. And this rule shall apply both on
earth and iu heaven. And thy grade
of responsibility in heaven shall begin
even in the same place thou established
it on the earth. ;wher ein thou wert
short, thou shalt labour; wherein thou
didst fulfil, thou shalt rej oice, and be
without compunctions.
10. Also shall this rule be with the
king and queen and emperor, antl all
rulers who have means and power;
and the responsibility shall extend
to all the people of the kingdom or
empire.
11. Nor shall this responsibility be
escaped by death; but t he bondage in
heaven shall be according to the
avoidance of the trust imposed.
12. Consider, then, what thou shalt
be encumbered with in the es world.
13. Pursue this philosophy, and·thou
shalt determine what shall be the
labour of the kiug and the queen and
the great ruler, after they have died,
and entered the es world.
14. Find the grade of their respective
dominions, and thou shalt determine,
by the ascension thereof, the duration
of their bondage in the first resurrec-
tion, whether it be fifty years or five
· hundred years.
15. But if such emperor 's dominions
be in declension instead of resurrec-
tion, then, on his entrance into heaven,
he shall be at the mercy of the spirits
of bis kingdom, who shall be in
wait for him, and he shall not escape
them. _
16. Some other heavenly kingdom
shall deliver them; otherwise they fall
into anarchy and madness (hell).
CHAPTER XI.
thousand; and another for a hundred REMEMBER thy Creator and the
thousand. These Illre the distances of comprehension of His kingdoms;
the reach and power of tbese men, . and be considerate of the words of th y
which is the extent beyond which God:
763
12 OAHSPE.
2. All men profess to desire t esurrec-
tio~ they- hupe to ascend to exalted
heavenly spheres. · .
3. Yet many will not even try to
exalt themselves.
4. One saith in one breath : To n ot
eat the fiesh of anything created alive,
is the highest.
{i. But, straightway, he feasteth on
fish and fiesh.
6. One saith: To return good for
evil is the highest.
7. But he doeth evil even before the
sound of b:is voice is hushed,
8. And yet he will find fault with his
Creator, if holy angels promise him
not a high seat in heaven.
9. And there are others who con-
stantly profess to have the higher.
light; but they go about tattling, and
making evil remarks of their neigh-
bours.
10. Yet, many of these do good unto
others, giving to the helpless; ver<ily
are they both rising and falling, in
regard to the resurrection. ,
11. The measure of the grade of such
shall be by weighing the whole be-
haviour as to its result in the com-
munity where he abideth. And this
rule shall apply, both on earth and in
heaven, to·all such people.
12. There are men who do great good
they enter the es world even as if
they had died in infancy.
18. They shall stand grade one,
becauifo owiilg to their weakness of
spirit, they must needs be habited on
the earth for many years.
19. T here be others, who are for-
ever talking of heaven, and consulting
the spirits of the dead, who are,
nevertheless, low as to good works, lind ,
low in holiness of heart. These shall
be graded the same as liars and
hypocrites.
20. For in prophecy thou shalt
estimate the sum of all the virtues
and vices of t hyself, and of thy neigh-
bour, and of the whole city, or state,
or even the world ; and accredit the
grade in ascension or declension, and
thou shalt compare one generation
with another, as to the increase or
decrease of its spirituality.
21. And thou shalt know of a truth
the standing of the whole world.
22. And from this, thou shalt also
determine the time when man came
on the earth; how long the race will
survive and bring forth; and the time ,
he shall become extinct as to the earth.
CHAPTER XII.
unto others, and are talented withal, Ü MAN, r emember Thy Creator and
but who are gi:eat liars; and much praise Hirn. In this, thou art
prone to exaggeration. So that their graded by thy God.
good works are outbalanced by the 2. Who see not H im, are weak in
shame of their tongues. spirit ; who see Him in all things, and
13. The grade of resurrection of such hear His voice in the leaves, and in
shall be modified or benefited but little every herb, are strong in spirit.
by their good works. But they shall 3. These are the grades·of the resur-
be weighed as to such evil habit, rection of the souls of men.
whether it be increasing or decreasing; 4. For what is the earth but a foal-
.and the grade of such man shall he ing nest, and the possessions of the
accordingly, and shall come under the earth but ehe.ins of bondage.
rank of spiritual disease. Because it 5. My heavens rest upon the ear th;
· will be entailed upon them into the es the place of the es'yan is in my keep-
wor:ld, and shut them out from the ing. And the places of the grades of
graae which they manifested. my heavens have I adjusted, according
14. When thou searchest ' for the to the inhabitants thereof.
grade of a city, therefore, all such 6. I people the heavens of the earth
persons shall stand as grade one. . with the spirits of the dead ; according
15. There ·be some .-vho say : I care to their grade in their corporeal lives,
not for the spiritual man nor the es so do I arrange them.
worlds. One world at a time is suffi- 7. To provide them 1mto everlasting '
cient for me. resurrection, and make them to rejoice
16. And they may be good as to the in their being. These are the labours
way of the city, contributing alms to of th_
y God.
the helpless, and visiting the sick. 8. For the beasts of,the field and the
Nevertheless, they utter truthfully birds and fowls of the air, and for
their own resurrection, which shall many animals that are companions to
stand grade one. man, made I a plR.ce in heaven, where
17. This is no crime in them, but an their spirits should survive for a
unfortunate imbecility of spirit. When seasou.
such persons die, their knowledge, for 9. And this animal heaven I graded,
the most part, dieth with them. And one, in the order of my heavens.
764
TRE BOOK OF JUDGMENT. t3
10. For I saw that man on the earth
had delight in them; and I provided
unto him for his es'yan period, that
he might rejoice in remembrance of
finding his loves.
11. And I made the animal heaven
to r est on the face of the lands of the
ear th even tbe same as the place of
t h e es'yan in grade one. ·
12. Remember, 0 man, thy Creator
gave to every animal a season on the
earth ; but He limited them to a time
to become extinct. Even so, and of
like duration made 1 a beaven ly period
for the sp_irits of animals companion-
able to man.
13. But for man 1 provided heavens
above, where he should rise as t o
place, even as he riseth as to goodness
and knowledge.
14. Magnify tby perception, 0 man,
tbat thou mayest comprebend the
kingdoms of thy God. Behold tbe
example tby Creator set before thee
in tbe fashion of the earth.
15. In !arge bodies Re placed the
lands; in large bodies Re placed the
oceans. Not in little hiUocks of land
and litt le puddles of water.
16. Even !arger than these are the
divisions (plateaux) of the· heavens of
thy God; the beavens of the earth are
separated by atmospberean oceans.
17. I fill not the air of the firmament
with angele scattered about; but I
give unto them regions habitable and
home-like. And 1 grade them suitable
to the resurrection of t h e spir its of
the dead.
18. Consider the work of thy Creator,
and the knowledge and symbols He
placeth before thee. Thou holdest up
a lump of salt, and it is solid and of
dimensions; but cast it into water,
and it is seen not, but dissolved and
lost as to thy p.erception.
19. And thou beholdest the earth,
which hath dimensions also; btit the
ethe thou seest not. As water is to
salt the solvent, so is ethe to. corporeal
thil'l~s the so!vent. By slow velocity
holdeth the solid eartb its form; yet,
in ethe, external to the body of the
earth-, the swift velocity of corpor is
magnified into dissolution1 By vor-
tices in ethe are these thm gs accom-
plished.
20. In the atmospherean r egions
whicb rotate with the eartb, behold
there are many plateaux !arger than
the earth, being habitable heavens
belonging to the earth. Tbeir com-
ponent parts are like unto the earth,
and they a re adapted to the abode
of angels even as the ear t h is for
mortals.
21. And yet. 0 man, these ar'e buf
t h e atmospherean heavens. Th ese are
the dominions given int o t he keeping
of thy God. · 'fhese are my kingdoms
and my heavens fo r a season.
22. As thou, . 0 man of the earth,
sailest thy ships abroad over th e ocean .
and coming to a new land, goinµ
ashore, dost sattle thy peop]e th ereon .
and it beconieth a new kingdom, eveIJ
so doth th y God in the heavens of the
earth, in the plateaux of this vortex.
23. Remember the magnitude of t hv
Creator's works and the symbols Re
set before thee: Where the clouds
ftoat high, it raineth not; where they
drag on the face of the earth, it ·
raineth daily.
24. Consider the habitations of the
resurrections of the dead which are in
the keeping of thy God. '
25. Even as to th e square of the dis-
tance away from the earth, so are the
grades of my r esurrections.
26. Accordin,g to the exaltation of
man's soul, so shall he inhabit th<>
places I have made.
27. According to bis 1 own sou l's
growth and development, so shall he
ascend in my kingdoms, outward away
from t h e earth; grade unto grade
adapted 1 them. ·
CRAPTER XIII.
0 MAN, to know the creations of
thy Creator, and the thmgs Re
hath placed in thy reach !
12. To apply thy knowledge, and
understand wit h reverence the wor k of
His band!
3. liow considerate of thy little
wisdom, and thy love of liberty, which
He gave unto thee.
4. Even before He bad perfected thee,
Re called out unto thee to behold His
cr eations. And thou ta rriedst not to
learn, but ran away, half completed,
to vent the exuberance of thy soul
which Re gave u nto thee.
. 5. Behold me, thy God; I am thy
elder bro1
ther wh ich He sent after thee.
Come thou, and learn wisdom of thy
God.
765
6. 'fhou tar riest in the grade; thou
art not aroused to know thy Ci:eator.
T hon- turnest thy back to me, and
sayest : Behold, there is no God !
7. I beseech t hee, turn about, and
hear the wisdom of m.v worcls : I will
teach thee to know thy Creator ; to
hear His voice, and to see His b,and.
8. And thou shalt r ej oice in thy
life, and teach thy bret hren to rej oice
also.
14 OAHSPE.
9. 'Ihou hast a corporeal body and a
sp.i.ritnal body : Hear me, and 1 will
open thy under$tanding.
10. Thy spirit hath eyes and ears
and judgment. Nevertheless, the be-
ginning of thy two parts was, at the
same time, quickened into a one
person, because of the presence of thy
Creator.
11. 0 man of the earth, would that
thy spirit and thy corpor stood even
in wisdom and power all the days of
thy life !
12. But thou art so delighted in the
earth, thou hast left thy spirit unfed.
And it standeth within thee as a spear
of grass covered with a stone.
13. And thou seest not spiri~ual
things; nor haarest the Unseen. For
a stone lieth upon thy soul.
14. Yet thou hast great Iearning as
to corporeal knowledge; and great
vigour as to corporeal judgment.
15. And thou ratest thy neighbour a
fool, because, forsooth, in contradis-
tinction to thee, he heareth and seeth
spiritually.
16. And thy God weepeth for thee;
because, in the time of thy death, thou
shalt stand in heaven in grade one,
even as the spirits of the beasts of the
field.
17. Thy present knowledge shall be
void, and thy vigour only as a new-
born child. And my angels who are
wise and strong shall take thee about
in hada, the heavenly plateaux that
rest on the earth, and divert thee with
things approximating betwixt the two
worlds, that thou mayest be made to
comprehend thyself and thy Creator's
work.
18. As thy corpo was fed on cor-
poreal substances, so, then, shall thy
young spirit be fed on atmospherean
substances, which thy guardians shall
provide unto thee.
19. Consider the wisdom of thy
Creator, who sent me to fetch thee into
places of delight.
20. 0 that 1 could take thee to the
highest heavenly places ! That thou
couldst stand before me, and talk face
to face !
21. But, even as a newborn child is
unsuited to feed on corn and nuts. thy
spirit is as a starveling in high hea-
ven. And 1 take thee to the nurseries
where 1 have provided for thee accord-
ing to thy weakness.
22. Thy mother was provided unto
thee before thou wert born ; and my
heavens arranged before thy spirit
entered therein. Thou shapedst not
thyself in thy mother's womb; and,
behold Ahe perfection of thine every
part.
766
23. Trust thou in thy Creator, but
seek thou also to go with Hirn, and
thou shalt attain easily to the highest
places He created for thy glory.
24. 0 that thou hadst not contamin-
ated thy corporeal part by·the flesh of
the beast and the meat of his living
creatures ! 'l'his is as one of the stonee
that covereth up thy soul, and block-
adeth thy way to the upper grades.
25. Thy young spirit must remain
within the atmosphere of the animal
creation for a long season; like untG
like hast thou fashioned thy spirit to
the flesh of thy body.
26. According to the atmosphere of
things, as to the purity and sweetness,
behold, thy Creator hath fashioned
them in relative ascent above the
earth. That which is impure resteth
on the earth; that which is pure is
upward and high.
27. Consider the place of the hells
of the iwirits of the dead, and the
weapons of warfare in their hands. As
the corporean is to corpor, so is the
spirit as to the atmosphere of the
earth.
28. 0 man of the earth, consider
what thou puttest into thy mouth, for
the atmosphere thereof is the food of
thy spirit. And the habit thereof will
be entailed on thy spir it for a long
season after thy mortal death.
29. If thou hast been a gross feeder
on flesh, thy spirit will seek to linger
in the atmosphere of gross feeders
still dwelling on the earth. The
slaughter-house and the cook-house
and the eating-house shall be the
places of thy spirit's resort.
30. And thy spirit shall feed therein
and thereon ; and thy companions shall
be millions and millions of drujas
[like vultures that flock to a dead car-
case]; and thou canst not away; like
a loadstone are these haunts to the
spirits of darkness.
31. 0 man, I have heard thee, in
thy fulness, say: 1 must have my
flesh-food; I must have my wine and
beer and tobacco and bpium.
32. I say unto thee, if thou hast not
strength in this day, neither shalt
thou have strength to-morrow. What
strength shalt thou gain by the loss
of thy cor1,>oreal body?
33. Cons1der thy corporeal body as a
ship, in which thy spirit is sailing
across a wide sea of water. Better
that thy spirit learn to acquire
strength whilst it hath a corporeal
body to ride in. After death it floateth
in the direction thou hast shaped it.
Neither hast thou power to go againsi
tbe current.
34. Remember, 0 man, these·are the
TH E BO OK OF JUDGMENT.
lessons of tby Creator, which He gave .
unto thee, to learn to master the
elements of thy surroundings.
35. Stretch forth thy hand unto thy
Creator, and swear thou unto Hirn,
thou wilt conquer every passion that
is unclean, and every habit not con-
tice of good works done unto others,
with all thy wisdom, love and strength.
47. For through these only is there
any resu rrection for thee, either in
this world or the next.
ducive to the purity of the growth of
thy spirit. CHAPTER XIV.
36. T his is the beginning of thy re- Ü F the foundations of the resurrec-
surrection; and thou shalt be thine
own j udge and master. . tions of thy God there are two
37. .Neither shalt thou call out: God, kinds; one which dealeth with those
God, exalt my soul ! ·or, O Lord, save already born, and the other with such
me and ioaise me up ! until thou hast as are not yet born.
first begUh to do something for thyself. 2. For, after thou hast purified thy-
38. O, that thou knew where the seif as to f!esh and spirit, two condi-
virtue of prayer beginneth ! And that tions are open to thee, celibacy and
h h ll H . h t h marriage.
he that practiset t e A ig es e 3. To such as are by nature inclined
knoweth, hath the ear and the band
of bis God ! Wherein the prayers of to celibacy, !et them rejoice; for, in
the righteous accomplish, whiT
st the not having offspring, they shall have
prayer of the ungodlike is void as t he less bondage after death to remain in
wind. · the lower heavens, and to return to
the earth to their kindred.
39. Certain men were down in a deep 4. lt is a great glory for them to
well, and they laid down and shut m ake themselves Brides and Bride-
their eyes, and prayed to be taken up, grooms to the Great Spirit, to be H is
yet they would not even raise their for rightcousness' sake.
eyes to look upward. And others, at 5. B ut as to thee who desireth war-
the top of the weil, !et downi ropes, riage, pursue thou the same course as
imd they called down to them beneath / to purity and holiness of person, aa
to l<Jok up, and catch the ropes, but to thine own resurrection.
they would not. And, in course of F · h' h h l b d d
time, they at the botlom said : Alas ! 6· or m t 16 t ou s a t e gra e
also, according to what thou dost.
our .prnyers are not answered ! 7. The delight of thy God who hath
40. 0 man, that thou wouldst put dominion over both the earth and her
thyself in the way of thy God ! To h eavens, is to witness the birth of
put away the uncleanness of the body such as come from the pure in flesh
first, and the uncleanness of thy spirit and pure in spirit.
afterward. 8. In likeness of the father and
41. To seek for things that are pure mother are all children born into the
and good, instead of criticisms and wor[d; and every child is a new crea-
phil;isöphies, that rise up out of thy tion, quickened into Iife by the
conta.minated flesh-house. presence of the Creator, Who is the
42. Whoso desireth resurrection, let All Life.
him begin to resurrect himself. 9. If t hou art pure in flesh, thy child
43. Make not thy confessions, which shall be pure; and, if thou art pure
are betwixt thee and thy Creator, in spirit, thy child shall be pure in
before men; but covenant thou with spirit.
Hirn, within thine own soul, saying 10. If thou art a flesh-eater, a
nothing of this for the laudation of drinker of strong dr ink, and a user of
men. narcotics, thy child shall come forth
44. Thy spirit is as a seed of a with thy contaminations upon it.
beautiful tree, which thy Creator 11. Consider, then, what thy grade
planted; give thou it good light and a shall be, which shall be acoording to
clean soil, that the blossoms and the t hy heirs, as to their grade in the
fruit thereon may glorify thy Creator place where they are born. As to
and thee. whether t hou encumberest the world
45. Such is the resurrection of the with progeny lower in grade, or liftest
spirit of men. Wait not for a Saviour up the world by progeny of an exalted
to save thee ; nor depencl th·ou on words grade.
or prayers; nor on hearkening to good 12. Be wise as to the selection of thy
sermons, flatterini:; thyself thou hast partner, as .to purity and r4gbteous-
done weil ; but begm to save thyself: ness. But be not deceived by such as
· , :4,6. By purifying thy flesh, by puri- eat not flesh merely, for the purifi-
..f;Ving thy thoughts, and by the p:rac- cation of the corporeal body is bu t
~tii 767
;;:·
lli O AHSPE.
half the matter. Look for one who is
pure in spirit.
13. Whoso is pure in flesh and in
spirit shall bring forth heirs unto
r esurrection, which shall be J.ittle oi
no bondage to the spirit after death.
14. But whoso marrieth for the earth
only, shall br ing forth heirs of bondage.
And pr ofligacy and debauchery and sin
shall come upon the heirs of that mar-
riage. ·
15. The spirits of such fathers and
mothers shall fall in the grades in
heaven ; and long will be their bond-
age in hada.
16. Flesh-eaters seek their partners
according tg the impulse of the flesh,
as to t he temptation thereof, or
according to riches, or caste, all of
which are earthly ·ionsiderations and
for themselves enly, and in no regar d
as to what t heir heirs will be.
27. In this matter thou takest -upon
thyself a new grade, according to thy
heirs and thy God-ship over them.
28. Be cautious in thy proceedings.
He who created thee alive, gave thee
no sinful desires.
29. Because thou art not yet a com-
pleted man these things are.
30. Thou shalt find j oy in th:v
talents, and profit in the wisdom of thy
God.
31. To perfect thyself is a gr eat glory ;
to raise up sons and daughters who
are also perfect, is a ten-fold greater
glory.
32. F or it is the fulness of the life
thy Creator gave into thy keeping ;
which is the glory of heaven and
earth.
CHAPTER XV.
17. And their offspring come forth
in darkness ; they are void of su'is, QF the abundance of t hy Creator's
void of heavenly aspiration, and dumb creations be thou appalled, 0
as to the voice of the Creator. man!
18. They go about, saying: I see no 2. Consider the inhabitanfs of the
All P erson ! I hear not the Unseen ! whole earth, and the number of a
Nay, I believe not that any mari hath thousand millions brought into life
seen or heard Him ! every thirty-three years.
19. H erein was it r evealed to thee of 3. Compute thou the number for a
old : Some are born of t he be.ast, and thousand years, and fo r ten thousand
some are born of the spir it. Which I years. .
declare unto thee, 0 man, is the inter- 4. And yet the eart h is not full.
pretation of all the poverty and crime 5. And the heavens of the earth ar e
and war and licentiousness there is in yet even as if scarcely inhabited.
the wor ld. Thousands of plateaux there are,
20. This is the fountain-head which with no angels to dwell ther eon.
thy God would bring to the under- 6. But to induce the spirits of the
standing of all i;>eople. But ther e are dead to rise up from t he ear th, this
many, even hundreds of million.s, that is t he work and t he glory of thy God.
cannot be made to appreciate this. 7. To make them put away earthly
21. Nevertheless, the kingdom of desires, to become pur e and wise and
peace and righteousness shall not strong and adapted to the sublimated
cover the ear th over wntil this is spheres, what an endless labour for
understood by all men and women. thy God and his exalted angels.
22. Whoso understandeth t his, let 8. As thou, 0 man of the earth,
him wed accordingly ; and let such holdest to the desire for earthly things,
people be as societies to themselves. thou entailest thyself in heaven, and
In this day, no mar k of circmncision canBt not rise upward. Even so is it
is required; but men and women shall with the great har vest, the thousands
converse on t he ways of the Creator of millions of angels born of the earth.
understandingly. 9. If thou stand a pyramid befor e
23. And when thou hast ohildren thee, wide at the base eq ual to the
born unto thee, thou shalt more con- height, such is the manner of the
sider t he place of thy habitation; as to proportions of the spir its of the ·dead
temptation, than t hy dominion over on their ent rance into t he es world.
them. 16. Consider, then, 0 man, how
24. To dwell in a city which is full sparse ar e the settlements in the
of iniquity, thou shalt be a tyrant over upper kingdoms of the earth's hea-
t hy heirs, r estraining them from liber ty vens, compared to the numbers in the
in order to keep them from vice. lowest grade. And r emember thou the
25. And in t his thou wilt be a sinner per centage of inspiration that cometh
also. . to thee from this grade, wbich is doubly
26. But dwell thou in a place of degraded in the cities and great capitals.
pu; ity, and give unto them liber ty and 11. Know thou, 0 man, that all
nobleness. 'fhey shall not be thy slaves. cities built by men, soon or late, fall
768
THE BOOK OF JU D GMEN T. 17
.into destruction. Search into the
generations, as to the grade of mor-
tals, and thou hast a type of the
spirits of that city, chiefly as to the
Jowest grades. But, remember, the
highest grades of angels go away,
whilst the lowest remain. As the
spirits of one generation are to the
form of a pyramid, so, not so will be
the spirits of that city in the next
generation.
12. But, in proportion to the in-
crease of the mortal city, and in
prop0rtion to the raising up of the
second, third, fourth, and fifth grades,
so will be the relative increase in
the proportion of druj as that dweil in
that city.
13. And, in time, all holiness pas-
seth away therefrom; and when thy
God abandoneth that city for a day,
taking hence his holy angels, · the
people fall into anarchy, or run with
brands of fire, and burn down the city.
ful, like the birds that sing unto the
Creator. And let thy speech be r espect-
ful, and relating to spiritual things.
Learn thou from them of the places
they inhabit in heaven, and tl:Je man-
ner of their occupations.
21. And if thou inquire of them as
to earthly things, Jet it be as fo how
thou mayest help the poor and dis-
tressed.
22. For if the angel that talketh
with thee be a druj only, thy discourse
shall, in this way, awake him to see
his own shortness.
23. And if they be high-raised angels,
they shall understand the working of
thy soul, and they will provide unto
thee for thy everlasting exaltation.
24. Be upright before thy Creator
and thy God, who know thy weakness.
Emulate them in all thy doingu, for
this is the way of resurrection, worlds
without end.
CHAPTER XVI.
14. And the hundreds of millions of
druj as lose their anchorage on the
earth, and thy God and his exalted
ones march them away. Ü MAN, weigh the words of th:v'
15. Find thou the grade and the rate God, thy elder brother, of ten's
of declension of the mortals of a of thousands of years' experience.
city, and, when the whole number, 2. Wherein thy soul perceiveth a
with the spirits therein, hath fallen ray of light, follow it in truth, and
to ·one per cent., thon shalt prophesy not in words merely.
the time of the fall of that city. 3. lt hath been said of old: Thou
16. Be thou fearful of the abund- canst not serve both, God and self.
ance of druj as about thee; and search And many go about preaching this,
out thine own imperfections and but they themselves labour for seif
uncleanness and thy passions, lest every day.
drujas fasten upon thee in a way thou 4. To serve thy God, is to work for
knowest not of. others, especially the sick and help-
17. Call not upon the spirits of the lass, and not for thyself. Thy prayers
dead to come to thee; but call thou and confessions to me are but the
on thy Creator for wisdom and light waste of thy breath.
and truth and purity; and, if it will 5. There be such as preach for
be weil for thee, He will send unto money, and withal are graduated from
thee such spirits as are best adapted the colleges and called learned priests;
to thee for thy resurrection. but they have not yet learned not to
18. Whoso consulteth the spirits as serve mammon, save in words.
to earthly things, or profit, or great 6. I say unto tbee, that a poor man,
undertakings, or marriage, or war, or who cannot r ead a line, that goeth into
riches, is already in the hands of the house of the afllicted, giving what
druj as. Woe be nute him in the hour little he hath, and, with a willing
of death. heart, cleaneth the floor and garments
19. When thou sittest in communion of the bed-ridden, is more learned in
with angels, do so reverently to thy my kingdoms tban are these graduated
Creator; and the members of thy preacners.
circle shall J?ray unto H irn, or sing 7. 'l'he word, labour, or work, is
songs of pra1se and glory unto Hirn easily understood.
and His works. Nor sbalt thou habit. 8. Suffer not thyself to be deceived·
thyself to sit with such as do not by them whose trade is preaching and
this revereuce to Jehovih. And when praying. They profess to be labonring
the angels appear and converse with for the spiritual man; and, according
thee, remember thou that even the to the number of their converts, who
least of them hath passed the bars of are also taught words and prayers and
d,eath. . confessions, instead of works, so are
20. Be not long-faced or melancholy they called great workers unto the
with doleful songs; but rat her cheer- Lor d.
769
18 O AHSPE.
9. But I say.unto thee, all these ar e of society? The way was open for
but the subter fuges of satan, to palm another condition; but thou soughtest
off words for wor ks. not to find it. Thou wouldst not give
10. All such preachers and priests up thyself, and live in a brotherhood.
and converts are still tarrying in the Under the name of liberty t hou heldest
depths,- grade one. fast to satan and his haunts, saying : l
11. I{ear thou thy God, and weigh/ am willing to serve the Cr eator , but l
his werds in the balance, and be not will not sacrifice my liberty.
blinded by the tricks of satan. 26. And t hou sellest thyself to self,
12. A preacher, receiving a good which shall follow thee into the next
salary, giveth half his money .to the world.
poor, and the other half to t he church; 27. Know then, 0 man, t hat whoso
and his people say: 0 what a good would rise into my organic kingdoms
man ! in heaven, shall teach himself the first
13. And st raightway they r aise his lesson of liberty, which is to free
salary, and they present him a good himself from seif.
house, where he feasteth sumptuously 28. He shall not say : I want .this;
every day, thanking God for his own or I must have that; or, I.cannot have
prosperity. seif abridged; or, 1 will • suffer no
14. Now, 1 say unto thee, that that dictation.
preacher centributed nothing to the 29. I say unto thee, all such me:a are
poor. The money he gave away was · already in the bonds of druj as and the
not his, but t he fruit of false doctrines. throes of hell. /
15. Because he practised not labour; 30. But thou shalt say: H ere 1 am,
but as a beggar and a vampire obtained 0 J ehovih, Thy servant ! Appropriate
his money, not for work, but for Thou me whichever way I can do the
words, he was false before Jehovih. most good unto others ! Myself is no
16. To serve thy God, or to pr each langer any consideration.
and practise the wor ds of thy God, 31. This it is to be a Faithist in t he
r equire not great oratory or education. F ather.
I r equire not colleges to brace me up; 32. If an exalted man mar ry a woman
nor preachers, that serve not the beneath him, he can lift her up.
Creator. 33. But if an exalted woman marry
17. One crieth out: Come to God ! a man beneath h er, he will pull her
or : Make thy peace with t he Lord ! down.
But he himself would not share his 34. Even so is it with the r ighteous
house with the poor of his own chmch. man , that weddeth to the world and
18. 1 say unto thee : All such are liveth ther ein : soon or late it will pull
either hypocrites, or deceivers of their him down.
own sools. 35. But if the righteous man go wit b
19. Except thou usest thy hands, and his fellows into a separ ate place, and
bendest thy back in practice, and in wed himself to J ehovih and H is ways,
producing something in the world, and then shall that righteous man be lifted
contributing it unto others, thou art up. And, moreover, he shall be a
none of mine, nor knowest the way to power to lift up the world.
Mme to me, nor to make peace with 36. Shall a bride not live with her
me. husband ? And they that choose the
20. lt hath been said of old: Do Creator live with Hirn ?
unto ot hers as thou desirest should be 37. 1 say unto thee : If thou dost not
done unto thee; also, to r eturn good live in a brotherhood on earth, thou
for evil, !l(nd to sell all t hou hast, and shalt not soon find one in heaven.
give t o the poor, and love thy neigh- 38. But t hou shalt unite tlwself with
bour as thyself. such as are compatible with thee; with
21. And these words are well known ; wh om t hou shalt live equal in all
but who is there that pract iseth them ? t hings, wherein thou canst do unto
22. Wherein the words are impotent them as thou wouldst be done by,
and of non-effect . loving them as thyself, returning them
23. In place of which, many practise good constantly.
serving themselves by their labour ; 39. Being willing to make any sacri-
but in J ehovih's service, their pr actice fice of thine own self's desir es for sake
is by prayers and confessions : words, of founding the Father's kingdom on
words, words ! earth.-
24. Saying : lt is not possible in the 40. Remembering thou wert born in
pr esent condition of society to do these darkness (the world), and art not the
things ! same as will be the generaticns who
25. Did thy God limit tbee, saying: come after thee, who shall be bo1J1 in
Do thou tbis in the present condition these commuuitie.a, Hi11 kingdoms.
770
THE BOOK OF JUDGME N T. 19
41. l<Jven for them that are yet un-
born shalt thy sacrifice be.
42. In which shalt thou consider that
it is for the r esurrection of others, and
not for thyself, that thou art chosen of
Jehovih.
43. For herein lieth the key of all
r esurrections; which is to labour fo r
others; to induce them to assirnil ate
unto Jehovih. and with one another.
44. The words of thy God are not for
the glory of any man under the sun,
or for any angel in heaven, but for
Jehovih.
45. Thou hast had revelation suffi-
cient since thousands of years; and
sacred books with most holy doctrines.
And, yet, many that know these weil ,
come into the es world as low a~
drujas, and as wandering spirits.
46. Thou shalt j udge thyself; th:v
spirit is as a mauuscript in thine own
han<lwriting; thou art daily writing
thy grade and the place of thy abode
fo heaven.
CHAPTER XVII.
REMEMBER the words of thy God,
0 man, and be r easonable in thy
u nderstanding.
2. Whithersoever thou buildest a
city, and it increase in inhabitants, it
equally increaseth in pauperism and
crime. Neither hast thou any doc-
trine under the sun to provide against
this.
3. But I have now opened the book
of knowledge before thee. The place
of my habitation and of the line of
my light and of my holy angels I have
made plain.
4. Thou mayest travel a t housand
other roads, but none other shall be
blessed with the light of my coun-
tenance.
5. As thou sayest at the door of the
college: Young man, n either prayers
nor confessions shall graduate thee in
my house, to be compauion to such as
have passed on before thee.
6. So say I at the ~ates of my e::ralted
heavens, unto the mhabitants of the
earth : Only by knowledge and righteous
works done unto one another, shall ye
be able to. endure the light of my
kingdoms.
7. Now, it shall come to pass, early
in the kosmon era, that many shall
be gifted to heal by laying on of
hands. And they shall say: Behold,
the lost gift is retu rned ! Have I not
done a good thing in t he world?
8. But I say unto thee, 0 man. that
these al so mistake the coming of Jeho-
vih's kingdom.
771
9. The healing of the ~ick may be
compared unto giving alms to the
poor, and saying: Have I not done a
good work?
10. I say unto thee, these things were
of t he past cycles. They shall now
consider what shall be done to pre-
vent sickness. 'l'his is better than to
heal. They shall now consider what
shall be done to prevent pover ty. This
is better than giving to the poor.
11. I have not come to heal and treat
the diseased in flesh or spirit; nor to
re-establish any of the ancient doc-
trines or revelations.
12. I am not a patcher-up of old
garments.
13. I a m not an apologizer for
ancient r evela tions, nor have I any-
thing in common with what .is past.
14. Neither their doctrines, nor
sacred books, nor their Gods, nor
Lords, nor Saviours are anything be-
fore me.
15. I am not come to captivate the
ignorant and unlearned. Nor am 1
come to call sinners to repentance.
Nor to convert the depauchee, nor to
convert the profane man, nor to con-
vert the harlot.
16. Sufficieut have been· other reve-
lations unto all these.
17. Nor have I come to say: Behold,
this is my book ! And there shall be
none other !
18. But, behold, I come to found
Jehovih's kingdom on earth. I come
to the wise and learned. And not to
one man only; but to thousands.
19. That which I am uttering in
these words, in this place, I am also
u ttering in the souls of thousands, and
I will bring them together .
20. I do not command, saying : Thon
shalt believe, because I, thy God, hath
said it, or r evealed it in t his book.
21. I come as thy eitler brother, in
the Name of Jehovih. I show thee how
thou canst live without the governments
of man. .And how thou shalt live, in
order to j oin in my resur r ections.
22. Let not the Faithist of this day
say : I will p:i;·ify the government ! I
will leaven tlie whole mass !
23. I say unto thee, thy God labour-
eth not in such method. The eure is,
come thou out of Uz, and be thou
clean.
24. Whoso hath more faith in U z,
let him remain in Uz; whoso hath
faith in Jehovih, Jet him come into His
kingdoms.
25. To know thy Father in heaven,
0 man, who hath learned this? 'l'hey
profess Hirn in words, but they belie
Hirn in their behaviour.
26. Renounce them, 0 my beloved ;
20 O A HSPE.
gather up t hy household, and follow
my voice, which I speak into thy soul
from the Almighty. Follow thou thy
highest knowledge, and make thyself
a glory in J ehovih's kingdoms, for-
ever and ever.
CHAPTER XVIII.
H EAH the words of your God, 0
ye priests and preachers and
rab'bahs, and all ye that set your-
selves up before men, professing to
hold the key of salvation and the places
of my r esurrections in heaven .
2. H earken to the words of your
eitler brother, God of these h eavens
and the earth; behold, I will set you
in judgment over yourselves; and the
powers of .Tehovih wit hin you shall cry
out for truth and justice.
3. Take your chosen of the congre-
cration of your church, and make
~anifest wher eof ye preach .
4. And prove that you have a good
9.nd sufficient doctrine fo\- the salva-
tion of souls.
5. Choose ye the best of your flock,
and show before your God an example
of all such as serve not mammon, but
J ehovih. Seal up their mou ths; for
ye shall judge them, not by words, but
by what cometh of the soul.
6. And ye shall divide,..-with one
another your eart hly possessions, being
as brethren. And ye shall cast it upon
the altar of your church, saying : We
give i.t to the poor !
7. Or, if ye ha,·e houses, ye shall say
to the poor : Come and dwell her ein !
8. P ersuade not yourselves, 0 men of
darkness, that ye are not graded by
th e angels above ; or say to yourselves:
J ehovih seeth not, nor hearetb .
9. Nor say : When we a1'e de:td our
souls shall turn suddenly good, and
ascend to the right hand of God.
10. Nor fl.atter yourselves, saying:
in your church es, having rich and
poor therein, which is itself your con-
deµrnation. For ye should divide with
one another ; pufting in practice your
doctrines.
13. Wh at one of you hath a congre-
gation who have given up all, and
who make themselves alike and like,
rich e.nd poor?
14. Say ye, my kingdoms in heaven
are after such manner? '
15. I say unto you: Ye shall be bound
in the first r esuri·ec'tion, in hada, to all
these whom ye h ave professed to lead;
neit her shall ye rise in heaven until
the lowest of your congregations of
spirits h ave put a.way uncleanness and
selfishness; which is the first labour.
And, after this, they shall learn to
practise fellowship in union, for the
resurrection of others.
16. F latter not yourselves that, be-
cause ye wear fine cloth, and ye preach,
ye a re not responsible also. Nor hope
that when ye become spirits ye sball
ascend suddenly into places of delight.
Ye are marked by your God.
17. Your souls are being written
upon with your deeds and works and
words; and ye sha ll see yourselves as
in a mirror, and of your own accord
shun my kingdoms of light.
18. Because ye have learned words,
and practised only in words, behold, I
come in this day to command practice
in works. Not for a pittance, but for
all ye have.
19. Behold, 0 ye destroyers of reli-
gion, :ve perverters of the word of
your God.
20. I come to give ye a r eligion,
wher ein all men can be as brethren.
21. E ven the infidel shall accept the
Creator and good works. F or he, being
the fruit of your behaviour, is even in
the foreground of the march of my
armies.
CHAPTER X IX.
W e did the best we could under the
circumstances.
11. Verily, I say unto you: Ye have GOD GIVETH A NEW REJ,IGION.
not fu lfilled the first law, "·hich is to GOD said : H ear the words of your
rnake clean your own corporeal bodies. God, 0 ye preachers, priests and
Because ye have stuffed yourselves rab'bahs; seek not to gainsay my
with carnal food, my holy an gels can- words.
not approach you; neither can your 2. I n times last I had such r epre-
understanding approach the place of sentatives, an I said unto them : Go
my kingdoms. ye, preach my doctrines unto the
12. H ow much less, then, have ye inhabitants of the earth; make them
purified your souls ? Wherein ye will understand the way of the Almighty.
not put away f!esh, because ye love 3. And ye shall take neither money,
flesh, even so will ye not put away nor scrip for your labour, but be an
self-righteousness. Because ye shun P.xample of faith in the promises of
the practice of labour, showing to the God. -
world ye love words, and the renown 4·. So your predecessors went forth
of men and caste, making preferences fulfilling my commandments.
772
THE BOOK OF JUDG M ENT. 21
5. But alas, how different ye·are this
day ! Ye patronize the man of wealth ;
ye boast of the riches of your con-
gregations ! ·
6. Ye receive salaries, and ye dwell
in fine houses; my doctrines ye seil
as merchandise ! l'e have fine temples
and fashionable audiences, and ye
curry favour with those who ' are in
af!luence.
7. Ye go not to the drunkard's den,
nor to the unfortunate woman; these
ye take not in your arms, saying : My
·brother , my sister, come with me, I
will show you the kingdom of God !
8. Behold, I have come to you in
spirit and in trut h, but ye put me off,
saying : Is not the first duty to one's
own household? Is not self-preserva-
tion the first law?
9. Now, I answer you : These ques-
tions spring from the beast, and not
from the spirit.
10. Neither availeth it you one jot
or tittle, to rise at break of day and
recite prayers all day, nor to say:
God help the poor ! or : Bl~ssed art
thou, my God !
11. When ye cannot purchase one
another by flattery, how hope ye for
the favour of the A.lmighty„ by praise
and prayers and flattery.
12. Behold, the selfishness of man
hath made the world a place of
wretchedness. The people are in misery
and want.
13. Go then, quickly to them, and
provide a remedy. This is the new
religion I give unto you: Demanding
sacrifice of you, and your cougrega-
tions, of all ye . have, that is not in
use and actual need.
14. And ye shall judge the limit
thereof, rememberini:f that whosoever
is bound on earth, is oound in heaven.
15. I have drawn aside the veil of
death, your sons and daughters, your
fathers and mothers, t he dead and
the living, stand face to face.
angels of your own blood and kin are
ye accused.
19. Ye have no personal knowledge
of heaven, and, in stubbornness of
.heart ye dispute with my seers and
prophets, who can prove before you
they have power to see unseen things,
and to haar that which ye cannot hear.
20. Ye study spiritual thirr!!'.S with
your corporeal senses ; neither h11-ve
ye capacity to see and hear the spirits
of t he dead. How much less, then,
shall ye presume to interpret Jehovih
and His kingdoms?
21. Now, behold, I come in this era,
not only to declare to you that the
time of preaching is at an end, save
wher ein it is practised in deed as it
is spoken in words, but also to pro-
phesy to you that many of you will gi_ve
up your calling, and preach no more.
22. A.nd your temples and churches
and meeting-houses shall be turned
into consultation chambers, to find
r emedies against poverty, crime, and
debauchery.
23. And the congregations shall be
enrolled, and, at the meetings they
snaH be inquired after, to see if they
are in n„sd. And they shall have
volunteers, who shall go about seeking
out the helpless and distressed, and
providing for them.
24. So that instead of the congrega-
tions sitting to hear your sermons,
they shall come as co-workers for J eho-
vih's children.
25. This is the new religion, which
I give unto you; and, moreover, Jet it
be a prophecy to you of the words of
your God. F or there is no such con-
gregation this day in all the world;
and yet, ere this generation pass away,
this shall be Ilroven before you.
CHAPTER XX.
16. And the angels are testimony
unto you, that your doctrines, as ye GOD DECLARETH A DAY OF JUDGMENT, AND
practise them, are a blasphemy
against the Almighty.
ALSO HE BEQUEATHETH LIBERTY UNTO ALL
MEN.
17. Ye persuade yourselves and your
congregations, that, after death, the GOD said : There shall be a day of
soul shall go far away, and to an J"" judgment unto thee, 0 man. Soon
exalted heaven. But, behold, they or late, thou shalt take the matter into
that are dead are with you. They thine own hand; and thou shalt look
testify unto you by the thousands, and into thine own soul to judge thyself.
by tens of thousands, that ye led them This is unto all men; none can escape
astray with false doctrines. it.
18. The evidence of the work of hea- 2. Such, then, is the judgment day.
ven is at your door. Ye stand accused Let no man complain against the
before J ehovih, that ye praccise not judge ; thou shalt be thine own judge.
what ye preach; that ye fare sump- 3. And every one judgeth against
tuout;ly and connive at sin; that ye himself, and, soon or late, crieth out:
preach what ye cannot prove; by the 0 Jehovih, 1 have sinned agiünst Thee;
773
22 OAHSPE.
. jn my youth 1 tried to find excuses dead, behold, some deceiving spir it
for my behaviour, but now 1 am , will come to thee to use thee ; neither
broken down utterly. shalt t hou discover for a long season
4. After judgment, reformation and that thou hast been the dupe and slave
resurrection within man begin as a of an unscrupulous master.
new tree of life. 17. This day in the lower heavens
5. But whether thou shalt judge thy- there are millions of false Brahmas,
seif in this life, or wait till thou art millions of false Buddhas, millions of
dead and risen in spirit, the matter is false Kristes and millions of false
in thine own hands. Gabriel-Gods.
6. Yet, better would it be for thee, 18. Whosoever bindeth himself to
if thou wouldst sit in judgment on these names whilst on earth, becometh
thyself every day of thy life. a fit subj ect for druj as to fall upon,
7. But touching the matter, as to when he entereth heaven.
how thou shalt judge thyself, hear 19. Think not that great wis<lom
thou the wisdom of thy God, thy elder oometh suddenly by dying; in thy
brother, and profit t hou accordingly. early entrance into the es world, thou
8. Because of the E ver Presence of shalt be easily deceived.
Jehovih, thou wert quickened into a 20. F or which reason thou shalt
conscious being. As thy earth-body is school thyself ever y day of thy life,
of the earth, so is thy spirit of J eho- that thy Creator only is t hy God ; and
vih. Nevertheless different from cor- that Him thou shalt never see as thou
poreality; for the latter cometh to an seest a man or an angel; but that Him
end; but the spirit is the man with also thou canst see ever y day in the
everlasting life. glory of His works.
9. Thy spirit groweth by cultivation, 21. With this faith in thy soul, thou
which is by the practice of wisdom, shalt die and enter h eaven fearlessly ;
truth, virtue, benevolence, and aflilia- and, when a pretended God or Saviour
tion unto others. cometh to thee asking tribute, thou
10. Think not, that the soul groweth shalt know of a t r uth he is false.
by prayers or confessions unto this God 22. Now, therefore, when thou judg-
or that God; for, in whatsoever God est thyself, to deter mine the bal ance of
thou firmly believest, him mayest t hou thy good and evil deeds, and t hy good
worship, for he is thy choice. Nor and evil t houghts, let thy Creator stand
shall any man prevent thee in this thy as the light of t hy soul, and, th rough
liberty. But, remember, the same Hirn, judge thou thyself, but not as to
rule holdeth ~nto all in this day, no thy worship, but as to thy wor]\s.
God, Lord nor Saviour shall exalt thee 23. Neit her shalt thou j udge thyself
for words without works. by any God, or Lord, or SaYiour, or
11. For, behold, 1 have cast out the other idol, or by any man or wornan ;
Gods, Lords and Saviours on the for thou standest thyself secon<l to
ear th andin the heavens who promised J ehovih in thy attr ibutes. lt behoveth
otherwise. thee to make a God of thyself, in thy
12. And when the spirits of the dead behavi:our andin thy wor ds and deed.
come to thee in sar'gis, saying : Be- 24. Neither shalt thou j udge thy-
hold me ! 1 am thy Saviour ! I am seif by any sacred book, or any bible,
tb y Lord! 1 say unto thee: All such in all t he world; nor by the words
spirits are d:cuj as. within them pur porting to be my
13. Nevertheless, if t hou worship a words or the words of any God, Lord
God, or Lord, and he be as a figure or Saviour.
unto thee to cast thine eyes into thine 25. For 1 have abolished all such
own soul, to purify thyself in the sight sacr ed books and bibles and wor ds and
of thy Creator, it shall not be accounted sayings contained in them, purporting
as if thou worshipped a man. to be my words and the words of any
14. In such respect it is no sin for ~od, Lord or Saviour.
thee to worship any good ideal, whom 26. Neither shalt thou bind thyself
thou shalt emulate in thy behaviour. by them, nor judge thyself by any-
15. Yet this also shalt thou prove : thing that is written or printed in
That, whosoever of the ancients wer e them.
great, or whatever Gpds were well 27. But, behold, I declare a greater
known, that thou settest thy soul on to glory and judge unto thee in place
love, behold, familiar spirits will come ther eof, which is J ehovih, thy Creator.
to thee to deceive thee, professing to be 28. By H irn, and through Him, shalt
such ancients or Gods. thou judge, and be judged.
16. And because of this, when thou 29. Bocksare maculate ; but Jehovih
art dead, and thy soul risen from the is the l mmaculate.
774
TH E B 0 0 K_ 0 F J UD GM E N 'l'. 23
30. Neither 'shalt thou, henceforth,
swear by any book under the suu; nor
by any God, nor Lord, nor Saviour,
nor spirit, nor idol, nor image. But
thou shalt swear by Jehovih, thy '
Creator.
31. 'I;'o Jehovih only shalt thou
covenamt thyself, and this shalt thou
do in thine own way only, and not
according to any book, or bible, or
priest, or church, or spirit.
32. Behold, · the olden times are
passed away; and thy God setteth aside
the bondages of the olden times a lso.
33. Suflicient were they for the times
they were created. A man shall ·not be
bonnd as a child; neither shall the
judgment of a man be bound by the
things that were intended for man be-
fore he attained judgment.
34. Hast thou not beholden the signs
of the timesi' What 1 h ere give in
words, J eho1,ih manifesteth over all
the length and breadth of the world.
35. None can stay the band of the
Almighty or gainsay the words of thy
God.
CHAPTER XXI.
holy book, no1· bible, nor priest , nor
church decree.
~. So that thy fidelity to thy Creator
and to thy fellow-man, in righteous-
ness, love and good works, shall be the
most sacred study of thy life.
10. And thy example from day to day
sha ll be a perpetual r egister of thy
accountability; verily shalt thou be a
living sermon before men and before
J ehovih.
11. And wherein thy behaviour de-
tracteth from the grades of thy fellow-
men, thou shalt be bound in the be-
haviour of those that copy after thee,
and, for the shortuess thou bringest
them into, thou shalt sufler for them
in time to come.
12. Beware, 0 man, for this rule
applieth unto all the generations of
men : That by sudden emancipation
from an old condition, man runneth
into another extreme, from which
spring libertinism and liceutiousness.
13. For which reason, r ather shalt
thou proclaim before the multitude
the r esponsibfüties of the new condi-
tion, than try to win their api;ilause
by proclaim iug their emancipation
from the old.
14. Because 1 h ave opeued the hea-
vens, the spirits of the dead return to
GOD DECRElETH AGAINST INFIDELITY. thee, and Commune in thy household;
GOD said : Haar the words of thy flatter not thyself that the whole of
God, 0 man. In the ancient Hmes the Father's kingdoms are revealed to
1 thee, and that the angels who con-
1 came as a father to a child, diciating versa with tbee can make plain the
unto man. h h" h · h
2. Now that thou hast attained to dominions of t e rg er eavens.
15. Many of these shall return to
.compreh ensive judgment, J ebovih hath thee, saying : There is no hell, no
inspired thee to liberty, and to think satan, no God, or Lord, nor anything
for thyself, and to consider what is in this world to make thee afraid. For,
best for thee. of a trnth, the bell they Jooked for,
3. And thy God coroeth not now as they found not; nor found they a God,
a dictator, but as thy elder brother, nor Lord, nor Saviour, such_as they
with ample experience. bad hoped to find. And, for this r ea-
4. And 1 say u nto thee, after Hie son, such angels are jubilant for the
mauner of thy professors in the college time being. ,
to their graduated classes : Behold, 16. Nevertheless, a time shall come
thou art free ; go thy way, and no to tbem also when they shall tire of
longer hope to hold thy God account- dwelling on the earth in the places
able for thy behaviour. of their mortal kin; and they shall
5. For, 'with thy frlledom, thou also seek resurrection into more exalted
attainest to r esponsibility. places, where wisdom and purity
6. Think not because 1 emancipate dwell. Then, indeed, shall they be-
thee from the Gods and_ Lords and gin to comprehend the ways of the
Saviours of the ancients; kingdoms of the Almighty.
7. And from the bibles and sacred 17. And th ey will cry out in pain;
books of the ancients; and from tbe pleading for pity, compassion, and
ancient commandments and injunc- help. And after that, when they come
tions, that, as a consequence, thou art to t hee, they will also proclaim, even
not bonnd in fidelity to thy Creator. as thy God now dotb : That the com-
8. More art thou bound now than mandments mnst be fulfilled:
before; for thou shalt not, henceforth, 18. To love the Creator a bove all else;
throw the responsibility of thy con 19. And thy neighbour as thyself;
duct on to this man, nor that man, nor 20. Sell all thon hast and give to j 1
-·
this God, nor Lord, nor Saviour, nor poor;
77'\
O A HSPE.
21. Return good for evil;
22. Do good unto others with all thy
wisdom and strength;
23. Abnegate seif in all resyects;
24. Making thyself a servant to thy
Creator;
25. Owning or possessing nothing
under the sun;
26. And look into thy soul to judge
thyself constantly, to discover where
and how thou shalt do the most good ;
27. Complaining not against Jeho-
vih for anything that happeneth;
28. Making thy neighbour rejoice in
thee;
29. 'Making thyself affiliative;
30. Without self-righteousness above
any one;
31. Being a producer of something
good;
32. And learn to rej oice in thine own
life, with singing and dancing and
with a jovial hear t, paying due
respect to rites and ceremonies, that
all things may be orderly befo re
Jehovih. ,
33. Remember the words of thy God,
0 man, when angels or men advtse
thee against these comman dments,
they have little to offer thee that will
promote t he harmony of the state.
34. Consider, therefore, that whatso-
ever promoteth the greatest harmony
and wisdom within the state, hath also
been discovered and is in practice in
the higher heavens.
35. And wherein it hath been proven
to thee that a state divided against
itself cannot stand, even so are the
heavens above not divided, but as a unit.
36. Judge, then, 0 man, when one
spirit cometh to thee preaching one
thing, and another spirit cometh to
thee preaching another thing, their
words are proof that they have not
yet entered the harmonious heavens
of thy God.
37. And it is because of the inhar-
mony of thine own soul that t hou art
open to these conflicting messengers.
This is infidelity against. the All
Person, Jehovih. And such conflict-
ing spirits deny the P erson and the
Unity of the Almighty.
38. Lkt not thy emancipation from
the bondaa
j e of the doctrines of -the
ancients ead thee into infidelity
against J ehovih.
CHAPTER XXII.
THE FATHER'S KINGI>OM ON EARTH.
And art1
thou prepared for it? Hast
thou fulfilled the commandments?
And lovest thou t hy neighbour as thy-
self ? And hast thou done un to the
least as thou desirest thy Creat or to
do unto t hee?
3. Now, behold, J ehovih hath sent
me, thy God, to answer thy pr ayer .
4. I demand of thee that thou hast no -
favourite doctrine above thy neighbour;
5. And that thou art servant to no
God, nor Lor d, nor Saviour, nor
church, unacceptable to any man in all
the world.
6. But that thou servest J ehovih
with all thy wisdom · aud strength, by
doing good uuto thy fellow-men witb
all thy might.
7. That because thou art strong, or
wise, or rieb, tbou understandest thnl
t hou shalt use these excellences for
raising up such as have them not.
believing t hat J ehoY
ih so provided lht~
to that end.
8. Consider, 0 man ! Thou hast a king-
d o
~ (government) already. Wonldst
tlfou have twv kingdoms? ·
9. Behold, the kingdom of man hatb
its power in armies anti ships of war .
10. The kinr,doros of thy Father
have not t hese, but love, wisdom,
righteousness and peace.
11. 1 demand of thee t hat thou shalt
give up t hy army aud navy. Art t hou
prepared to say : To whom smiteth me
on one cheek 1 tur n t he other to be
smitten also?
12. Is thy faith still more in weapons
of death t han in the Voice of Ever-
lasting Life? Esteemest thou thy
army and navy more to be depended
on than J ehovih?
13. Art thou willing to sacrifice thy
time and money and self-interest for
sake of J ehovih's kingdom?
14. Use thy j udgment, 0 man. Since
t he t ime of the ancients till now, the
only prollress towards the Father's
kini;dom nath been thr ough sacrifice.
15. What less canst thou expect ?
16. If thou sellest what thou hast,
and givest to the poor, behold thy
neighbours will imprison thee for a
madman.
17. If thou a,bnegate thyself and
la bour for others, they· will persecute
thee, and revile t hee.
18. If thou shouldst profess to love
thy neighbour as t hyself, they would
mock at t hee. ·· · ·· · , -
19. Therefore, 1 declare unto thee, 0
man, in the land of U z' the Father's
kingdom cannot be. ·
20. But thöu shalt go hence ; and,
behold; 1 will go with tl;iee, and witb
t hy neighbour,. aud show thee how tö
words? build, even as a kiugdom in heaven .
GOD said: I have heard thy prayer,
0 man : Thy kingdom come on
earth, as it is in heaven.
2. Hast tho11 considered thy
776
TH E BOOK OF JUDGMEN T. 25
CHAPTER XXIII. and like the angels of heaven ministe;
unto mortala (save wherein thy God
GOD JUDGETH uz, COllB!ON
LY CALLl!lD THE and hiBLords provide especially ot her.
WORLD' s PEOPLE. wise). so are the inorganic heavenly
GOD said : I am not come in. this r "lgions to the inorganic inhabitants of
era to judge the drunka rd, the the eart h.
harlot and thieves and mu rder ers; 16. Now, hehold, 1 said unto thee in
these are known unto thee, 0 man. the olden times, tr y t he spirits and see
2. I am not come to r epeat former if they be of God.
judgments against whom all men 17. F or t.he angels who wander about
understand to be sinful ; for, behold, l on the earth know not my kingdoms,
gave governments in to the hands of and they deny me, and deny all qrder
men, to deal unto such themselves. and system and discipline in heaven
3. But I am come to the leaders of and eartb.
men; to kings, queens, emperors and 18. Anc each and a ll such angels,
presidents ; and to philosophers and comiug to. mortals, do so on their own
men of learning, priests, r ab'bahs, acco1Jnt. assuming any form and name
car dinals and popes ;·and to mer cha nts, they may find acceptable u nto men.
bankers, ma nufacturers, farmers, ship- 19. Such angels have not yet pa:ssed
per s and h ucksters. the first r esurrection ; nor belong they
4. Such as pass unscathed befor e the to any disciplined kingdom in heaven.
laws aild governments of man, and are 20. And all mor tals, such as I have
reckoned passal)ly wise and good named to thee as t he best and highest
before the world. of .mortals, enter t he es world only into
5. And not even to such of these as the inorganic r egions of heaven.
are bad men in disguise, who escape 21. Neither can they enter the second
condemnation before the courts by resur rPction u ntil they abnegate seif
cunning and stra tagem. and learn affiliation.
6. But I am come to tbe best of all 22. Therefore, after death, t hey r e-
of thsm, be t hey true Brahmans, true main, for the most part, in their
Ka'yuans, tr ue Buddhists, true Kriste'- former places : The merchant in his
yans, or t rue Mohammedans. counting-house, the banker in his
7. Ther efore, 0 man, hear the j udg- bank, the shipper in his place, the
ment of thy God against them: They pope il1 hi<i place, the king in his, the
are not united and affiliated as far mer in his.
brothers. 23. Neitber have they power or
8. But tbe best of all of them ar e as wisdom to go to any other place; and
so many individual entities pulling in they stroll abou t, like one that hath
differ ent ways, ever y one for himself. lost his master. Neither will they
9. The Brahmans ar e not comrnunal ; affiliate with other nngels; but in
the Ka'yuans a re not communal ; stub bornness and moroseness, persist
neither are the Buddhists, nor the in wor king out an individual identity,
Kriste'yans, nor the Mohammedans ; until tbey are broken down in sorrow
neither t he philosopher s, pr iests, and darkness. whicb may be in a few
merchants, nor any one people in all year s, or it may be hund.reds of year s.
the world. 24. And, t hen my holy ones come to
10. Ther e is no fulness of beaven them and carry them away to my
amongst any of t hem. They a re es'yan echools.
divided into thousands of ideas and
projects.
11. Now, hear me, 0 man, and con-
sider the wisdom of thy God : Satan
is wiser than a ny of these I b.ave
named.
12". F or satan hath made ar mies of
soldiers communal. He hatb discover ed
CHAPTER XXIV.
GOD SHOWETB HOW TO KNOW THE KIND OF
A
NGEJ,S TRA
T MINISTER UNTO ~!O RTALS.
the power of affiliation and discipline. G OD said: Une rule have 1 given
13. Behold, a thousand soldiers are unto all men wher eby it may be
more efficient than ten thousand men, k nown what kind of angels minister
unorganfaed. unto them; that ru le is a mor tal's
14. Judg.ment is r ender ed against the own manifestations and behaviour.
best of men in all thc wor ld because 2. Whoso manifesteth serving him-
they are inorganic for righteousness se-lf chiefl.y, hath little light from my
and for establishing the Father's king- or gamc kingdoms ; but whoso serveth
dom. Jehovih by labouring for others, w1th
15. This, then , is what befalleth t he all his wisdom and strength, is attended
nations and peoples of the earth: Aiike by the light of my organic kingdoms.
777
26 OAHSPE.
3. Judge thyself, 0 man, as to thy-
self, who and what angels attend thee.
4. Behold, one man will say to thee :
I have a band of wise and most ancient
angels who attend me ! Another will
say : I have very Gods who attend
me!
5. Judge them not by their words,
nor by the names professed; but judge
them by the work they accomplish.
Nevertheless, hold thy peace in regard
to them.
6. This r ule do I also give unto thee,
in regard to the angels who attend
mortals.
7. As, for example, thou knowest
that a soldier is not permitted to go
away from his regiment and pursue
other · employment.
8. The soldier belongeth to his regi-
ment; he is one with the regiment; he
moveth therewith; the affairs and
business of the regiment are his affairs
and business also.
9. Even so is it with my organic
heavens, wherein es'yans become volun-
teers to accomplish resurrection.
10. And, thereafter, they apply them-
selves not to isolated development, but
to affiliation for attaining to the higher
kingdoms.
11. The least of my organic plateaux
containeth half a thousand million
angels; and many of them contain five
thousand million.
12. These are composed of thousands
of branches, suited to the various
talents created with all; so that all
who enter find a delightful adaptation.
13. When thou wert taught of old,
to say : May Thy kingdom come on
earth as it is in heaven, it w'as in-
struction given thee to lead thee in
the method of my dominions.
14. As to wandering spirits, they
have not yet passed the first r esurrec-
tion; but such as have enlisted in my
organic kin,gdoms are called es'yans
whilst learning the rites and discipline,
and are said to be in the first r esurrec-
tion. And such as have J:- , come organic
workers are in the second resurrection,
and this is a kingdom of heaven.
15. This rule is also uniform in all
my heavenly kingdoms : That, after
entrance to the second resurrection,
none of the angels return as in-
dividuals to comrnune with mortals,
save as hereinafter mentioned, or save
when especially commissioned by me
or my Lords.
16. Think not that my discipline is
less systematic than that of a mortal
general's army, or that the heavens of
thv God are permitted to run at loose
ends, and without order or concert of
action.
.ns
17. Be reasonable, 0 ma.n, weigh
these things according to thii:ie own
observation and judgment, for t h'ere is
not in all the heavens any wide depar-
ture from what t)10u hast in some form
a counterpart-resemblance on earth.
CHAPTER XXV.
GOD BHOWETH HOW AND WHEN THE BECOND
RESURREC'rIO!i MANIFESTETH UNTO ldOR-
TALS.
GOD said : In the cities and country
places I have innumerable Lords,
apportioned to districts and to the
mortals and angels thereof.
2. And my Lords know the rates and
grades of their people, their occupa·
tions, their aspirations, their labour,
their behaviour, private and public.
3. Now, behold, I have said unto my
Lords : The era of dictation is past;
man hath arrived at kosmon. Declare
ye the light of my h eavens unto man;
but let man j qdge himself, and labour
to save himself, t hat he may have
honour and glory thereby.
4. And I fur ther said unto my Lords:
Man hath prayed, saying : 'l'hy king·
dom come on earth as it is in heaven.
Now this I give unto you: That where
men abnegate seif, and affiliate into a
communal brotherhood, after the man-
ner of my heavenly kingdoms, then
shall ye affiliate my organic angels with
such mortals, and make them one with
my second resurrections. .
5. And ye shall surround such com-
munal brotherhoods with the light of
my kingdoms, thereby controlling the
angelic intercourse with mortals, so
that druj i..s and vampire -spirits can-
not molest them.
6. And these brotherhoods shall be.
taught to question not the spirits and
oracles on personal matters, but for
light and truth as to what will con-
tribute to ameliorating the condition of
man, and as to light and truth, re-
garding the higher and lower heavens ;
and as to attaining spiritual gifts and
great wisdom.
7. And such mortals shall have times
and places for worshipful matters; and
these times shall be in concert with m.v
Lord of that district; and the light of
his throne shall be given unto such a
brotherhood.
8. The members of such a brother-
hood shall not desire a leader; neither
will any one of them desire to be a
leader. For if one should so desire he
"'ould not be of the Godhead, but of
himself.
THE BOOK OF JUDG MEN T. 27
9. Moreover, none of the members of
such a brotherhood shall go off of his
own accord to minia.!;ar as an individual
to the inhabitants of Uz. But each
and all in the brotherhood shall con-
centrate their profits and force unto
one end and object.
10. Even so, 0 man, are my organic
heavens ; all the members of each
heaven being as a unit with the whole,
they waste not their strength and
time in isolated endeavours.
11. Whereby, when a prophet foolish-
ly boasteth to thee as to having some
high-raised angel with a loud-soundinl;l'
name, as his special guardian and
guide, know thou sucb a prophet is in
the hands of drujas, who have not en-
tered my heavenly kingdoms.
12. Neither hath it ever happened
on the earth with any individual man,
raised up by me or my lords for a
specific work, like Moses, or Ka'yu, or
Sakaya, or any other, that they knew
of or boasted of any especial angel
over them; but all of them experienced
the light, which was as a pillar of
fire.
13. Even such is the manifestation
of the second resurrection through my
Lord and His Holy Council.
14. And the manifestations are not
like those of a mere magician; but the
accomplishment of something that em-
braceth nations, empires and mighty
peoples.
15. For this r eason, 0 man, I declare
unto thee t hat the F ather's kingdom
is now being founded on earth, and
the mortal manifestation thereof is
near at band.
16. But it shall not come in this
era as in the past, through any one
great leader-forth; but it shall appear
as a spontaneous light, permeating the
soul of thousands; and they shall come
forth establishing J ehovih in truth and
fulness.
17. Now, therefore, 0 man, consider
the judgment of thy God against all
such as are call ed the best of men,
the wisest of men, the greatest of
kings or queens or popes ; for none of
these have even passed the first resur-
rection in their own practice.
CHAPTER XXVI.
GOD JUDO ETD T-IIE ASCETIC.
ceremonies, being most systematic in
routine, and in being shut away from
the Uzians.
2. And they allot certain ones as
leaders and overseers, making them-
selves inquisitors over one anot her ,
in hope of purifying their thoughts
and aspirations, constantly trapping
one another for shortness, and, then,
submitting to petty punishment and
inflictions, hoping thereby to check
evil thoughts, words and actions.
3. J udgment is rendered against all
such people, be they mortals or angels.
4. For these are the methods of the
imprisonment of mind. All such mor-
tals are prepar ing themselves for the
bondage of drujas on their entrance
into the es world.
5. Yea, even in that same college
(convent and nunner y), shall they be
immured after death, by thousancis of
drujas who inhabit the place, who pro-
fess to have some scheme of proj ected
salvation.
6. AU such people are the mani-
festation of dark~ess instead of light.
Jehovih created man with capacity
for developing talent to do good unto
others.
7. Now, behold, these ascetics labour
for themselves in these foolish pro-
ceedings; they do not these things in
order to ameliorate the condition of
their neighbours. Neither have they
shown in a single instance where a
benefit resulted to the state in con-
sequence of their practices.
8. They call their initiations sacred,
but I declare unto thee they are a
blasphemy against Jehovih. 'r hey are
as a snare for the imprisonment of the
mind arid of the soul.
9. And, after death, these people are
prevented by their drujan masters
from entering heavenly places of re-
surrection, becoming, instead, slaves
in the es world, to pursue such call-
ing and practice as may be put upon
them.
10. For the same rule holdeth on
earth and in heaven, as regardeth the
bondage of the mind. If, by imposing
rites and ceremonies, and by the
stratagems and cunning of mortal
priests they can be captured on earth,
even so can they be retained in bond-
ap in heaven.
i 11. And it happeneth wi_
th them,
t hat even as they honestly believe they
are right on earth, so will they persiet
GOD said: There are such as shut they are right in heaven, even will-
themselves up in col111ges (con- ingly submitting to cruelty and to
vents and nunneries). and such as torture in order to prove their fidelity.
retire to the forests, devoting their 12. Be conside,rate, 0 man, of the
lives to prayers, confessions, rites ,and words of thy God: He Who created
779
28 O A HSPE.
thee, gave to tbee one star of light
wbereby thou mayest determine truth
and wisdom.
13. Whatever doctrine showeth seif
as the chief consideration, even if it
be for obtaining wisdom or supposed
purity for self's sake, is not of J eho-
vih.
14. The aborigine that roveth fool-
ishly in the forest standeth higber,
therefore, before tby God th an doth
the nun or tbe ascetic. For though the
former liveth for se.lf only, yet he is
not bound in spirit.
15. In all things thou shalt weigh
the obj ect and end aimed at, and the
final result; and, wherein seif standetb
as apart, or whole consideration, know
thou such matter is not of Jehovih,
but of satan.
16. lt is not snfficient for the apolo-
gist of satan to say : 0 we dwell in tbe
colleges (nunneries and convents), in
order to pra.y for Uzi ans.
17. But thou shalt weigh their pray-
ers also, and thou shalt estimate the
value thereof by what is accomplished.
And thou sbalt prove whether tlieir
prayers provided harvests of wheat and
corn, an·d food and clothing for th e
poor, and education for the unlearned,
or an:v other thing that was good.
18. Be thou not put off by the cun-
ning of satan's words in the moutbs of
priests or popes; but look matters in
the face, and be th.
ou a God tbyself in
discerning tbings that ameliorate tbe
conditi.on of man.
CHAPTER XXVII.
GOD JUDGETH CEIAR!TlES.
G OD said: A certain man built a
dam across a river, using only
stones, but no cement. And the wa1er
ran through tbe crevices, renderiug
tbe dam worthless.
2. Then came certain neighbours to
him, saying , Thou shalt apply cement
to the crevices.
3. So the man went to the lower side
and applied cement ; but, lo and behold,
the r esult was only temporary, for
the water washed the cement away.
4. Again his neighbour said unto
him: ApJ?IY tbou the cement at the
upper s1de, and the water will carry
tby riches, and thy eetates for charity's
sake, but of no profit under tbe sun.
7. When the man applied tbe cement
where it was not self-sustaining, tbe
waters washed it away.
8. Wherein thou appliest charity.
and it be not self-sustaining, judg-
ment is rendered against thee.
9. When tbe man applied the cement
toward the fountain, it became self-
sustaining.
10. Wherein tbou appliest charity,
and it be self-sustaining, judgment is
rendered in thy favour.
11. Wben thou meetest thy neigh-
bour on the road, and be hath fallen
down and broken bis !egs and cannot
stand, consider how foolish it would be
to Jift him up, and, then, let bim fall
a.gain. Flatter not thyself that such
would be charity.
12. And yet how much of the so-
called chai;ity of tbe world is of that
kind.
13. Thou mayest feed tbree drunk-
ards' fami lies, and flatter thyself tbou
hast done charity worthily; but if thou
hast not done tbat which will make
them no langer in need of charity, thou
hast done little.
14. Anotber man may nnt feed tbem,
but he may reform tbem, and put
them in the way to be self-sustaining.
Such a man will have done a hundred-
fold greater charity.
15. To open the way for employment
and industry, this is tbe greatest of
all charity. For, by these avenues,
cbarity will not be needed, even for
the aged, nor for orphans.
16. Consider, then, how little any
people h iive to boast of for cbarity's
sake. Even their asylums and poor-
houses and homes for the aged and
helpless are so many witnesses of con-
demmition against t-he people who
built them; because the same great
wrongs and evils existing within the
state were also built by tbe people in
the first place.
17. They are as paint and plaster,
biding and redeeming them in some
measure for tbe sins of a wicked people.
18. And when such a city saith: Be-
hold us ! what a charitable people we
are ! I say unto thee that that city
understandetb not the lringdom pf thy
God.
it into the crevices, wbere it will r e- 19. Yet thou shalt avoid going to the
main with good effect. other extreme, doing nothing, which is
5. And the man did so, and, behold, worst of all. Dut thou shalt go to the
the dam was a complete ·structure. root of the matter; thy charity shall
6. After such manner, 0 man, con- be directed to prevent the calises ·of
sider all charities. Thou mayest apply such ill-fortunes.
780
THE BOOK OF JUD GMEN T. 29
CHAPTE R XXVIII. pr ovide a new race, where poverty and
GOD SHOWE'fH HOW TO DO CHARITY,
G
OD said: 0 m~n, consider the
folly of individ ual effor t ! One
wil l say : 1 help my family and my
neighbours; let others do so, and all
will be welL
crime and helplessness cannot enter.
15. Ye thus become, even in mor-
tality, members of my se1ond resll/i'·
rection in heaven.
CHAPTER XXIX.
GOD JUDGETB TBE MIBSIONARIES.
2. This is his philosophy and doc-
trine ! Now, 1 say u nto thee, this is GOD said : In the olden t ime 1 com-
just what hath been t ried for thou- mancled thee, saying: Go forth
sands of years, and it hatb r esulted in into all the world, preaching my doc-
impotency all t h.
e while. trines, chief of which was: There is
3. lt hath ·been said : Sell all thon but ÜNE, even the 1 AM; Hirn shalt
hast, and give to the paar; but 1 s·ay thon love with all thy haart and thy
unto thee, thou shalt not do this. mind and thy soul, and love tby neigb.
4. Though that opened the way to bour as thyself, having faith in
salvation in the ancient days, it is no1 Jehovih through righteousness and
sufficient in this day. Neither shalt good works.
thou h ope, that, by giving to the poor 2. Moreover, 1 declared unto thee that
thou shalt escape condemnation. whosoever fulfilled my commandments
5. Bnt thou sbalt go to the found a- believing in J ehovih, certain signs
tion of things, and go systematically. should be given unto them, whereby
6. T hy efforts shall not be single- they might be known unto men.
handed, but thou shalt unite witb 3. And thou wentest fo rth, and, be-
others; and, together, ye shall provide hold, my signs went with thee, and thou
a r emedy against pover ty. dielst accomplish service 'tmto J ehovih.
?· Reo;iembering it is wis.er to accom- 4. But it came to pass in course of
phsh w1tb the young than with the time, thou dielst forsake thy Creator.
aged. For the mature will be dead in setting up Lords and Saviours of
a few years ; and, in that day, those thine own, worshipping them instead
that are children will be mature. of Jehovih.
8. Better is it that y_
e provide a way 5. And 1 looked down upon thee
unto ten fatherless child ren, than for from my holy place in beaven, and l
forty people that are grown. saw that thou hadst become obsessed
9. But even in this ye may err to- with evil spirits, tbousands and mil-
ward the cb ildren. For to pr ovide lions of them, wbo professiid to be the
then an asylum in infancy, saying : Lords and Saviours- whom tbou wor-
Behold, what a goocl work we have shippedst.
clone! showeth t hat ye measure not as 6. And 1 said unto my Lords: Be-
your Gocl measureth . hold, man hath erected an idol in
10. For it is not s\1fficient that ye heaven, go ye to them that preach in
feed and clothe little ones; but ye my Name, and take from them the
shall teach them a t rade, and occupa- signs and miracles which 1 gave•.
tions, and give tliem learning, so that, 7. And my Lords came unto thee,
when they are grown, they can sustain finding thou wert gone abroad over all
tb emselves. the world. And my Lords cut thee
11. But, even yet, y_
our work is not short of signs and miracles.
the highest; hut ye shall so provid e 8. For this was the j udgment of thy
them t hat they will not only be seif- God against thee, because thou hadst
S~PJ:?Orting, hut, that they shall he turned against the 1 AM, teaching
w1llrng and capable of rescuing ot hers, another God than J ehovih.
as they were rescued. 9. And I made this, my edict, mani-
12. After this, ye shall see to it that fest on the earth; for 1 withdrew my
all th ings are so provided, that, after holy angels from thee, and, from that
your death, your institution be not time forth, whithersoever thou hast
liable to fall into disuse or perversion. gone, behold, 1 have given thee none
13. This is founding tlie Fa.ther's of the signs whereof 1 had been liberal
kingdom on ear th; ancl, whoso Jabour- before.
eth thus shall be ministered unto by 10. And 1 measured the work of the
my he.avenly kingdoms for the glory of hand in the places of thy mission, and
Jebov1h. 1 found that thou wert impotent to
14. Therefore, let your charity lm. establish good works.
not for a year, nor for a bundred 11.. And following in thy path
years ; but be ye the corner-stones, whithersoever thou hadst gone, thou-
founding places on earth where sball sands and millions of drujas followed
rest perpetually a system that will thee; and thy people went with
781
80 OAHSPE.
weapons of destruction, slaughtering
those J ehovih bad created alive, in
order to establish thy idol-God.
12. And my Lords numbered all the
places of thy missionaries in all the
earth, and behold, there was not one
place which thou h adst established,
which was not given up t o sin and
blasphemy against Jehovih.
13. Neitber hadst thou raised up aPy
mernber, or members in all of them,
that pr.·.ilctised even the first command-
ments.
14. And I said u nto thee: Bebold,
thou h ast not the sis ns and miracles;
give up thy preaching, and go tbou
amongst the barbarians teaching them
how to plant, to sow and r eap and
clothe themselves, and to live in houses.
15. But this was distasteful to thee
in tby hypocrisy ; and thou madest of
thy occupation a scheme t o live in
worthlessness on the contributions of
thy n eighbours.
16. And beh old, thy doctrines h ave
not prospered in any place in all the
world t o work rigbteousness for the
glory of the Almighty.
17. Flatter not thyself tbat thou h ast-
done a good work because thou hast
t.aught the ignorant to say: B rahma,
Brahma ! or, Buddha, Buddha! or,
Lord, Lord ! or to sing anthems in
praise of thy idol-God.
18. Tby God measureth thee and thy
converts accord ing to such purification
as addeth to th e glory of everlasting
life, as well in heaven as on ear th.
And such p1uification manifest eth not
only in words, but in good works for
the gl.ory of the Father.
19. And wben ~t hath come to pass
that thy mission brough t ahout a war
afterward, behold, that war is also
upon tby b ead.
20. I measure not a little!ood that
happeneth f.or a moment, an there an
end. I ct>mprehend tbß Japse of scores
of years a.nd hundreds of years; and I
weigh the whole matter, and r ender
judgment in the aggregate.
21. Neither judge I by man's in-
ventions or mechanical contrivances.
My judgments are in reference to
man's comfort and j oy in life, and to
bis resurrection in my heavens.
22. According to a man's or a peo-
:ple's, ascending grade in approximat-
mg Jehovih, so shall a man and a
people be judged.
was mighty above his neighbours, and
none of them could r egain their off-
spring.
2. And a certain rab'bah inquired of
J ehovih concerning the matter. And
Jehcvih answer ed him, saying : Wh at-
soever he coveted and hath t aken,
suffer hirn to keep. '' What he h atb
taken exultingly shall be a bonclage
unto him in sorrow, in time to come;
for he shall pr.
ovide accorcling to l~w.
3. And it so happened that a famme
came upon that land, and, according to
the laws, the rich bad to provicle
unto the kin of their own households.
4. And, behold, the rieb man's pos-
sessions were consumed by the ne1gh-
bonr s whom he had robbed, and great
sorrow came upon bim.
5. Such, 0 man, is the way of the
dominions of men. A mighty king
stretcbetb forth h is band to possess his
neighbonr's kingdom, and Jehovih giv-
eth it u nto him.
6. And that king exulteth, saying :
Bebold my possessions and my power !
7. Hear, now, the ju<lgment of thy
God, 0 man : Soon or late, all things
answer unto Jehovih in a way man
imagineth not. Whoso coveteth and
r eceiveth, is bound unto Jehovih.
8. And when a king possesseth him-
self of a new country, he not only
receiveth its riches but its m isfortunes
also. The profits and losses are "r1
his.
9. And the sins of the people are his,
' and are henceforth u:pon bis head.
10. And when a famme cometh upon
that country, the ki ng shall be rJJSpon-
sible therefor.
11. And he shall supply every want
of the people, or j uclgment shall be
upon his head.
12. And for all of the newly acquired
subjects who may be in sickness or
distr ess, the king shall be judged.
13. Moreover, judgment shall pursue
tbat king into the es world; and the
subj ects he took unto himself on earth
shall be bis in h eaven to r edeem, and
provide fo r, and educate.
14. Neither shall he have exaltation
in my heavens faster than tbe lowest
of his subj ects.
15. Behold, I not only bequeath the
glory and joy of the Father's kingdom
on earth, but I reveal also the re-
sponsibilities which shall be hereafter
known to mortals.
16. Man shall not only ·perceive the
CHAPTER XXX. justice of my judgments, but he shall
Gon JUDGETH DOMINIONS. r ealise the power of my band upon
GOD said: Now, behold, a certain kingdoms and empires.
rieb man coveted bis neighbours' 17. I show man not only the way of
children, and he went about and cap- liberty, but the way of bondage. He
tur~d rnany of them. And withal he shall know u nder standingly the waya
782
THE BOOK OF J U D GMENT. Sl
of my dominions, and the judgment
that is upon him.
18. For every one whom the king
causeth fö be slain in order to possess
a new coul'ltry, the king s-hall mete
out r etribution untii all his enemiee
do pardon aud forgive him.
19. MBehold, I have revealed thß
grades and ra tes; al'td such kin-g shaJl
perceive, that his bondage ca11n-0t be
less than six geiterations, bl!t may be
twenty or forty generati9fl.s, ßre he
reacheth beyond the secpn~ r esur-'
rection.ff
20. A:ad the same r ules ' ab.all ap'lllv
to every king Mtd queen and emperor
and ßVery other ruler in all the wori<l.
21. The resurrection in heaven of
each and every one of them sha11 bP
with, and no faster than those they
ruled over on earth.
22. A11.d they shaH be responsible to
all thei.IJ subjects for deaths resulting
from war s, wh ~rein tbe subjects were
used for the glory and power of th P
king. And for all famines, pestilences
and all other injuries tbat come u pon
tbe multitude tbrougb any shortness
in the king's government.
23. And for the poverty of the
people, and for tbei.r ignorance an<l
crime; nor shall the king escape retri .
bution for any good thing he might
have done, bat did not accomplish.
24.. And for all the profit and service
the king receivetb on earth from his
subjects, he shall render back to them
an ßquivalent profit and service, either
on earth or in heaven.
25. Let not the king or other ruler
any long"r fl.atter himself that deatb
ef!aceth tbe bondage of man unto his
subject aud neighbour.
26. Behold, by opening the gates of
heaven I have given you tbe g]ory
thereof ; and, with it, I also give you
the r esponsibilit ies.
'l:l. I have brougbt the angele to
your door; they bring you news of
great joy, and ,bring you also tbe
aftlictions ye ca~t upon the~.
28. I told those of the olden time that
sword should answer.sword; wa r should
answer war ; and peace r eceive in peAce.
29. Such, tben, rs the judgment of th y
God upon dominion; and this shall be
ratified in time to come by every r uler
on the face of the earth.
CH.A.PTER XXXI.
GOD JUDGl!TH TH! MAN OF PROMISES.
taking hold good; or, if I am spared,
then I wi.11 do semethiEg handsome fpr
the Father's kingd-0m !
3. .A.nd thy vows hne beM rei;ister ed
in h&aven, over a.nd o;v,N" aga1n.
~- And my ang~s have labour ed with
thee to ralfi.l thy promise. .A.nd, yet,
thou dost not regard thy word. B11
thou holdeet t o thy earthly possessions,
sayi.ng: Wait yet a little while.
5. Hear thou, then, the jllidgment of
thy God, for it is bat which thou
shalt put upon thyself iafter thine
entranoe into the es 1rnrld.
6. Which is that thou shalt be bound
in h.eaven till thon sbalt accomplish
wh&t thou mightest have done, but
failed to do.
7. .A.nd this is the penalcy for neg-
lectili~ on eartb to ful:fil the light that
was g1ven unto thee : Thou shalt, in
heaven, acoomplish without money
what thou coYldst have done with
money. And thß difference it r equireth
to do ·a tbi:n.g without means, as com-
pared to what might be done by one
with means, is the er.tra bondage and
duration that shall oe upon thy head
and soul.
8. To all men who set out with a
promise to accomplish charity, or any
good for the r esurrection or ameliora-
tion of man, and fail to do it, the
same judgment shall be upon them in
heaven. Nor shall they rise above
the first r esurrection until they have
fulfilled the same in all particulars.
Thus shall they judge themselves in
heaven.
9. lt is not sufficient for thee, 0 man,
to say: I saw not my way clear as to
the best method of doing a thing, and
so I waited.
10. The commandment of J ebovih is
upon thee, to do what thou canst, ac-
cording to thy highest light and ability
to accomplish. In this respect, then,
thou shalt find no excuse because thou
knewest not the best wa.y. ·
11. Neither mattereth it the amount
of thy riches being less than another
man's riches.
12. Nor shalt thou find an excusa in
saying : I did mora according t o my
means tban did my neighbour.
13. One man shall not be judged by
another; but all shall be judged
according to the light of J ehovih in
them, and according to what He hath
given unto them.
CH.A.PTER XXXII.
1
GOD JUDGETH AGAINST WAR.
GOD said: Consider tbe judgments
T of God, 0 thou man of many pro-
mises. \ G OD said: ·Now behold, 0 man, I
2. Behold, I have heard thee ~ay: 0 · 7 have declared my first and second
God, if I wßre rieb; or, if tbis 11nder- resurractions unto t'hee. And in like
783
32 OAHSPE.
manner is the third resurrection, but
still higher. ·And so on are all the
heavens of Jehovip., higher and higher,
until the inhabitants thereof and
therein become very Lords and Gods.
2. Nevertheless, hear thou, 0 man,
'the wisdom of thy God, and be appreci-
ative of the way of resurrection being
opened up unto thee.
3. Now, T declare unto thee there
are angels lower than the first resur-
that thou mayest know what fetal is,
behold, Jehovib hath given thee testi-
mony in mortality, whereby, when a
young child sleepeth with a very old
person, that child is devoured of its
substance. In such case the old per-
son is fetaled on the young child; the
old person is said to live by fetal.
6. Now, hear thou, 0 man, the judg-
mimt of thy God : Half the people
born into the world, including still-
births and abortions, die in infancy.
Therefore, there are a thousand mil-
lion angel infants fetaled on the earth
every thirty years.
7. These angels never obtain ob-
jective knowledge of the corporeal
earth, but are compelled to learn
subjectively earthly things through
mortals, upon whom they are fetaled.
8. J udgment is r endered against all
nations and peoples on the earth for
this great darkness, these ear ly deaths.
And because these angels are thus
bound to mortals, and cannot go away
from them until such time as mortals
die, mortals are responsible, and bound
to train them up by examples of right-
eousness and good works.
9. Now; aside from such angele, there
are such as are slain in war, whose
minds are in chaos, who, dying in the
heat of passion and fear and anger„
become wild and bound on battle-fields,
or, mayhap, stroll away into deserted
houses and castles, aud are lost, be-
wildered and unapproachable.
10. Of these, thert1 are hundreds of
millions; and they are in all countries
and amongst all peoples in the world.
11. They are distracted and tor-
mented with their own fears and be-
wilderment.
12. Judgment is r endered against all
nations and peoples in the world wbo
engage in war, thus bringing these
afßictions upon the angele o·f heaven.
13. Judgment is render ed against
every nation and all people in tho.
world who carry on war, or who are
accessory to war, whereby any man
===--"'--'----~------- - created alive by J ehovih, is slain, in
Plate 95.-GALL.
rection; being incapacitated, from
vario1ilB causes, fram knowing who
they are, whence they call'.!_e, or
whither they are going. Yea, many
of them know not words of speech,
nor signs, nor tokens; but are as
destitute of knowledge as young babes.
defence of any king or other ruler, or
in defence of any country or. gover n-
ment in all the world.
14. And whether war be offensive or
defensive, my j udgment is against its
aiders and abettors, and against the
kings and queens, or other rulers who
are parties to war, willingly, know-
ingly, or otherwise.
15. And I judge him guilty also who
is general, commodore, captain, ser-
geant or private that engageth in war
or taketh part therein, aiding, abet-
And ting, or otherwise, whereby any man
4. Many of them died in infancy;
some of them were killed by abortion;
some of them were idiots, and some
of them deranged.
5. Many of these live by fetal.
78'
THE BOOK OF JUDGMENT. 33
oreated alive by Jehovih, is slain or
oaused to su:ffer death.
16. And yet, aside from angels .
who
are in chaos, there are hundreds of
millions who are in declension instead
of resurrection. Such angels are those.
who in mortal life were whipped and
tortured in prisons, or, mayhap, were
hanged, or otherwise put to death.
17. These angels take delight in evil
inetead of good. Sometimes they go
about singly, and sometimes in gangs
of hundreds and even thousands.
18. In olden times the false Gods
used such angels to fulfil curses Oll
mortals; ·and to carry poison in the
air, and inoculate mortals with foul
diseases.
19. Behold, in this day, my angele
have shown thee, that they can bring
ßowers a.nd ponclerous boclies ; even so
could the false Gods with their trainecl
eth upon the earth. Even though their
bondage be a. hundred yea.rs or a.
thousand years, yet this my judgment
against them shall not be put aside.
23.' Nei.ther shall any king, nor queen,
nor any other ruler in all the world,
impress as a. soldier any man who is
unwilling to engage in war. And who-
soever obeyeth not this my judgment
sha.11 not rise a.bove the first resurrec-
tion in heaven whilst war remaineth
on t he earth.
24. Neither will I more consider the
prayers of any king, or queen, or any
other ruler, or any nation or people
in all the world who engage in war,
offensive or defensive, or who aid or
abet war in any way whatsoever.
25. But I will abandon all such peo-
ple; and my Lords shall abandon them:
and my holy angels shall abandon
~hem.
Plate 96.- RATES.
1
warrior angele who delighted ·in evil, 26. And they shall be abandoned unto
ca.st m~rtals in death by poisons a1;1.d their· own harvest of evil spirits, and
suffocat10n. to all manner of drujas.
20. Judgment is rendered against all 27. And they shall be affiicted with
nations and peoples, who use prisons as assassinations and intriguers and de-
places for V<hipping a.nd torturing Spoilers, and with anarchy and riots
prisoners ; and against all nations and and destruction. .
peoples, who put to death, by hanging, 28. For they shall be made to under-
shooting, or in any way whatsoever, stand that whomsoever Jehovih created
any prisoner, or any person whom . alive is sacred upon the earth ; and that
Jehovih created alive. whosoever heedeth not these, my judg-
21. Judgment is renclered against the ments. sinneth against t he Almighty.
judge and the jury who coudemn to 29. Behold, it is not sufficient apology
death any man; and against the law- for them to eay: 0, an evil king will
makers who make, or have left in come upon my country and possess it !
force, a law authorizing death as a 30. l say unto thee, 0 man: All coun-
penalty against any person Jehovih tries are Jehovih's. Be thou His ser-
created alive; and against any sheriff vant unto peace and righteousness,
or executioner that putteth to death, having faith in Hirn.
willingly or knowingly, any person 31. Behold, thy God hath come to put
J ehovih created a.live. away old things, and to give unto you
22. And this is the bondage I put the kingdoms of Jehovih, as they are
upon all such as obey not my judg- in His exalted heavens.
ments, and conform not thereto: They 32. Heed thou the judgments of thy
shall not rise above the first resur- God; thou canst not stay the hand of
rection in heaven whilst war remain- the Almighty.
78S 2C
34 OAHSPE.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
GOD JUDGETR AGAINST EXCLUSIVENESB.
GOD said: Hear the judgments of
thy God, 0 man; look thou upon
all the world with the eye of 'a God.
2. Be thou comprehensive in judg-
ment over all nations and peoples upon
the earth.
3. J ehovih hath said : Out of My very
self created I all the living; brothers
and sisters made I them from the
members of My body.
4. Jehovih hath said: In the early
days of a world, behold, I provided
unto man different continents and
islands, separated by mighty waters,
that man in one division of the earth
might not interfere with man in an-
other division of the earth.
5. Jehovih hath said: Behold, one
nation and people I allot to one civili-
zatfon, and another nation and people
I allot to another civilization. Separ-
ately, on the different divisions of the
earth and on the islands in the seas,
situated I the different peoples I
created.
6. Jehovih hath said: But when the
world groweth older, and man attain-
eth to wisdom, I say unto him : Build
thou ships and sail across the waters
I created ; go visit thy brothers and
sisters in the different divisions of the
earth.
7. Jehovih hath said · And man mas-
tereth the ocean, and cometh to his
brothers and sisters, afar off, and I
say unto man : Because thou hast mas-
tered the ocean, Jet this be a t estimbny
unto thee, that there .shall be no
tJarrier, henceforth, between all the
nations and peoples I created.
8. J ehovih ha th said : In kosmon I
come, saying : Be ye brethren ~pon tho
face of the earth and upon the waters
of the earth; these are the legacies I
bequeath unto My children.
9. Jehovih hath said: Be ye a help
and a profit unto one another, judging
wisely of the differences which circum-
stances and places of habitation have
developed in the 'races of man.
10. Now, 1, thy God, 0 man, declare
this judgment unto thee: Inasmuch as
thy wisdom hath surmounted the cor-
poreal barrier, the ocean, betwixt thee
and thy brother, it is meet and proper
that thy soul surmount the barrier of
prejudice against thy brother.
ca nst turn aside, or set backward the
seasons of the Almighty. · '
13. Wherein thou dost this, affiiction
shall surely come upon thee.
14. Behold, I have made the heavens
of the eartli universal; and •estab-
lished heavenly roadways around
about the earth, that the angels of the
different nations and the peoples may
be as angele of universal heavens, to
help one another.
15. Wilt thou make a law to incite
the enmity of the spirits of the dead
against thee? And open the door for
still more aggressive wars.
16. Shall the laws of man interdict
the march of Jehovih?
17. Now, behold, when kosmon came,
I said unto thee,; Come with thy Goci;
peacefully shalt thou knock at the
doors of Chine'ya and Japan, and they
shall open unto thee.
18. This thou accomplished; and those
who had been exclusive hundreds of
years turned from the olden ways to
welcome Jehovih's hand in thy comiug.
19. Now I declare unto thee I will
not more have exclusivenesR in any of
the nations and peoples in all the
world.
20. Neither shall there be taxes and
duties of one nation or people against
another.
21. Behold, thou hast asked for the
F ather's kingdom to come on earth
as it is in heaven, and I will give
unto thee. As thou hast prayed, so
will l answer thee, in the Name of
Jehovih.
22. Thou shalt not serve both J eho-
vih and mammon. Neither shall t he
light of my heavens be wit h thee, save
thou heedest my j udgments.
23. I will have all the ports open and
free, nor shall ther e be partizan t axa-
tion in favour of one nation against
another , nor of one people against an-
other people.
24. lt is not excusable for thee to
say : Lo, the poor foreigner will come
and consume my riches !
25. Thon shalt say the opposite:
Welcome, my poor brothers and sis-
ters ! Whatsoever is mine, is yours
also. Come ye, and dwell within my
country ; it is ample, and J ehovih will
provide unto us.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
11. And that instead of making laws
against him thou shalt do the opposite GOD JUDGETR T_HE GOVERNMENTB Oll' MAN.
of this and throw open the place of GOD said : When a man hath young
thy habitation, and thy soul, and th y childr en he maketh j.pst Jaws in
love, to receive thy brother, god-like, order to teach them discretion, justice,
and with open arms. harmony and consideration in regard
12. Flatter not thyself that t hN1 to one another.
786
THE BOOK 01!' J UDGMENT. 55
2. But when his children attain to
be men and women, man nq longer
holdeth a law over them, for they are
become his equals, as brothers and
sisters.
3. Even so, in the ancient times, pro-
vided I thee, 0 man, with govern-
'ments and laws for different nations
and peoples.
4. Nevertheless, I1 said unto thee:
Let thy government be as a father over
the people, and not as a separate
matter against them.
5. But thou hast disobeyed my com-
mandments rthy gover.nment is as one
thing, and thy people as another
thing. That which should be one
entit;f' thou hast made into two.
6. Thy government hath become a
separate seif from the people; ·and the .
people are as servants, supporting the
law-makers, who trade in pr ojects and
schemes for their own profit and glory.
government wherein it provideth not
liberty to the people, and neglecteth
providing means for the development
of the talents created with all.
12. In these respects, 0 man,- govern-
ments are measured and graded by thy
God. And whenever a government set-
teth up itself to enforce and strengthen
itself by violence against j ustice unto
the multitude, behold, I turn away
fr<;>m that government; a.nd I call away
my Lords and holy angels.
13. And, ther eupon, druj as come
upon that people, and the people fall
upon t heir government, and destroy it.
14. If a government be a king only,
and he have no holy council (pa.rlia-
ment), then the responsib'ility of the
shortness is wholly his.
15. But if the king have a holy coun-
cil, then the responsibility for short-
ness lieth partly with the king and
partly with th,e council.
Plate 97.-GRADES.
7. Since the earliest days, all the
governments of ·man have drifted into
this.
8. When a government no longer fill-
eth the grade, according to the advance-
ment of the people, behold, thy God
withdraweth his heavenly protection
from that government. And straight-
way the peopJe run into anarchy.
9. Lay not the blame of anarchy and
revolution and assassinations upon the
people; my j udgment is against the
government in all cases. These con-
ditions of vengeance are but the fruit ·
resulting from the government's diveJ"-
gence from the will of J ehovih, and the
ma.rch of His light.
16. Judgment is rendered against
them, not only in this world but in
the es world. And each and every
member of such council shall be
bound in the first resurrection until
he hath made amends unto all 'his
people for the shortness he manifested
on the earth.
17. Hear the wisdom of thy God, 0
man, and consider the way of righteous-
ness in the governments of mortals:
18. The nearer the twa.in are to being
one, fhat is, the government and fhe
people, the nearer they are like unto
my heavenly kingdoms.
19. 'I'he more diverse the govern-
ment is from the people, the farther
is it from the kingdom of thy God.
10. II As for example, the offspring of
inharmonious parents, or of parents
wrapped up in selfishness, are lower
in grade than their predecessors, even
so do the subj ects of a king decline in
grade in proportion to the prevention
of liberty and the neglect of general
instruction.lf
11. Judgment is rendered against
20. Let this be a guide unto thee, 0
man, in prophesying the change and the
overthrow of governments : A.ccording
to the square of the distance a govern-
ment is from J ehovih, so is the quick-
ness of its comingchangeor destruction.
21. Think not these matters are gov-
a erned by chance or accident: Jehovih
787
86 OAHSPE.
is perfect righteousness;
lasting.
the all Ever- of apprenticeship to a barber, to a
22. He is All One. For a people and
their government to attain to be all
one with each other, this is great
strength, with a long existence and
internal peace.
23. This, also, shalt thou consider,
0 man: All governments are tend-
ing toward oneness with one another.
This is the march of Jehovih. None
can stay Hirn.
24. Consider, then, what is wisdom
between governments : To make them-
selves reciprocal toward one another.
25. A government that setteth up it-
self for itself, and against other go-
vernmeuts, i~ a selfish government.
And thy God rateth it the same as a
selfi.sh man, being diverse from Jeho-
vih and His kingdoms.
26. Judgment is rendered against
such a government. Neither my Lords
nor my holy angels shall bless that
government.
27. Governments that practise afli-
liation, to bring about reciprocal
brotherhoods between governments are
on the right road toward the Father's
everlasting kingdoms.
28. Flatter not thyself, 0 man, that
these matters can escape the observa-
tion of thy God. The affairs, legisla-
tions, laws, treaties, and all things
whatsoever that governments accom-
plish, are known and recorded in the
heavens of the earth. And the Jeaders,
kings, and councils, shall, soon or late,
face them ; and they shall j udge of
their own fulness or shortness in serv-
ing Jehovih in righteousness and wis-
dom.
weaver, to a law:yer, to a preacher, to
a phy9ician, to a smith, and to all
other trades and occupations, with
examinations and ~assports to prac-
1 tise within the kin~ s dominions; with
rates for fees and'nghts and privileges.
' 5. But these laws and governments
were for the past eras; they were
righteous in the fi.rst place, for they
shaped man's judgment tl'ward per-
fecting himself.
6. But , behold, a new time is in tbe
world; from the acquisition of know-
ledge a new liberty hath been born
into the world. And it crieth out on
every side : Throw open the doors unto
all trades and occupations ; behold, the
multitude are sufliciently w1se to judge
themselves as to whom they shall
patrouize.
7. J udgment is r end.ered against ·fäe
laws and governments of man in all
cases where they prevent the liberty
and choice of a man to his avocation
and knowledge.
8. lt is not suflicient for thee to say:
Behold, the public will be taken ad-
vantage of by ignorant pretenders.
'l'hou hast no right to say what the
public will suffer, and thus base a law
on prospective damage.
9. When the public have suffered,
aud when they, themselves, demand
protection by such laws, then shall such
laws be made. To make such laws be-
forehand, is to sin against J ehovih.
10. lt is said of old : Thou shal t keep
holy the Sabbath day. And it was
defined what a man should not do on
that day.
11. Judgment is rendered against
that law; nevertheless, 1 put not aside
the practice.
12. But the time hath now come
GOD DECLA&ETH AGAINST THE GOVE&NMENTB when man shall judge himself as to
OF MAN. whether he will or will not keep any
CHAPTER XXXV.
GOD said : Whoso liveth with J eho- day sac1·ed.
1 vih is free from Jehovih. These 13. Moreover, man shall not, hence-
need no man's government; for they forth, be accountable as to whether he
practise righteousness, peace, love, in- keep or not keep any day as a sacred
dustry and wisdom, with due regard to day. Yet, this accountability shall be
one another. unto all men, whether they fulfi.l in
2. Such is the Father's kingdom on wisdom and righteousness their utmost
earth. In which there shall be no laws capacities.
made by man; neither shall ther1i be 14. 'l'here was a law of circumcision;
leaders or rulers. but 1 render judgment against that
3. The progress of man is toward law also, fo r it hath fulfilled its time.
this; the progress of the governments 'l'his law 1 put aside in practice. But
of man should shape toward such a 1 give it as a permission to tbe adult,
consummation. that he may or may not fulfi.l the
4. The time was when laws were circumcision according to his own
requisite unto all things, even to the j udgment.
manner of a man coming in and going 15. Judgment is also renderea
out of a house; and to every occupa- against infant baptism; and 1 put
tion that man followed; with licences aside this law also, and 1 make it an
and taxes regulating them; the time abomination before Jehovih.
788
THE BOOK OF JUDGMENT. S7
16. Nevertheless, when a child hath
attained to fourteen years of age, and
it choose of its own accord to be
sprinkled with water, to conform to
the rites and ceremonies, then that
child shall be thus baptized in the
Name of Jehovih, but not in the name
of God, or auy Lord, or a Saviour,
or an angel.
17. This is wisdom, 0 man, to have
no law or government between man
and wife.
18. This is-ignorance; to have a law
between man and wife.
19. Yet, because there are bad men
and bad w.omen who do marry, it hath
.been found necessary to have a law
between man and wife, as regardeth
their duties.
20. But consider how wrong it is
·to have a law between a good man and
good wife, as·.regardeth their duties.
Better is it for them to be thrown
upon their own love and judgment.
21. After such manner gave 1 govern-
ments and laws unto all peoples. To
the bad and evil-minded, rigid laws,
with many details; but to the wise
and good 1 come now as an emanci-
pator, saying: Go ye, without laws
and government fulfil your de.stinies
according to your own j udgment, that
ye may be an honour and glory to Je-
hovih.
22. In kosmou man shall not be
longer driven in yoke and harness, he
shall stand upright before J ehovih,
practising his highest light with
rejoicing, being a free man, and a
brother to his God !
23. Behold, the Uzians have a custom
of eating bread, and drinking wine,
saying, after the manner of the wor-
shippers of Baugh-ghan-ghad, of old :
Eat of this, for it is my fiesh; and,
drink of this, for it is my blood, signify-
ing that that they do was commanded
by me, God of heaven and earth. ·
24. Judgment is rendered against this
custom, with abhorrence; moreover, it
shall be, henceforth, known as blas-
phemy against J ehovih.
25. Thy God hath never commanded
man to eat fl.esh and blood, nor pre-
tended that bread itnd wine were fiesh
and blood, no~ommanded them to be
eaten in remembrance of the fiesh and
blood of any man born of woman.
26. Also have they a custom of decor-
ating ~nd draping themselves in cra,Pe,
and characterizing the same as a s1gn
of mourning for the dead.
27. J udgment is rendered against
such custom, but without prohibition.
28. J ehovih createth alive, and
J ehovih taketh life away, for all things
are His.
29. Remember thy Creator with wis-
dom; and neither in thy dress nor habit
shalt thou censure Him for what hath
been .
30. Neither curb thou the full sorrow
of thy heart and thy soul, because thy
brother or sister, son or daughter, or
father, or mother hath passed away.
31. But remember, Jehovih is over
all His works, and provideth wisely
unto the living and the dead.
32. J ehovih hath said : To man 1
00 ave an earthly body that he might
tearn earthly things; but death 1 gave
to man that he might rise to the
inheritance of My heavenly kir.gdoms.
33. He appointeth a time unto all;
to some an hour, to some a year, and
to some a hundred years; every one
fulfilleth to result in wisdom and
happiness, and for the glpry of the
Almfll'hty.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
GOD SHOWETH HOW HE HATH WROUGHT.
GOD saith: Behold the work of my
hand, 0 mau : As thou findest an
old house, no longer habitable, thou
sendest :ivorkmen to pull it down, and
then thou sendest labourers to clear
away the rubbish.
2. And afterward thou bringest
builders, and they lay a new founda-
tion, !arger and broader than t'he old
one, and thereon they build thee a new
edifice ad!!-pted with ne"I)' improvements
unto the mcrease and requir.ements of
thy family.
3. E ven so hath thy qod laboured for
hundreds of years, to prepare unto the
generations of this day.
4. For 1 saw befor ehand that man
would circumscribe the earth, and
that all the·nations and peoples thereof
would become known to one another.
5. And 1 beheld also, that in the
coming time, which is now at hand,
the old edifices of doctrines and creeda
and religions, as of the Brahmane,
Buddhists, Jews, Ka'yuana, Kriste'-
yans and Mohammedans would not
fulfil the requirements of man.
6. And now, b<;1hold, 0 man, the wis-
dom of Jehovih previously: He had
permitted corruptions and contradic-
tions to creep into the sacred books of
all of the said great religions, purpose-
ly and with design, so as to make easy
the work of t hy God.
7. And when 1 saw that the coming
together of nations and peoples would
require a new r eligious edifice, 1 per-
ceived, also, that the old ones must be
cleared away.
8. And, behold, 1, thy God, went to
789
S8 OAHSPE.
work systematically, inspiring men to
accomplish even what man hath accom-
plished.
9. I raised up scholars and infidels
against these religions; inspiring them
to attack the corruptions and contra-
dictions in the sacred books of all
these peoples.
10. And in the same time that I sent
infidels against the J ewish bible, I sent
infidels against the Hindoo bibles, and
against the doctrines of Brahma and
Buddha and Ka'yu, and against the
Kriste'yans and Mohammedans.
11. And I made the beginning of the
work of these infidels and scholars to
correspond with the discovery of
Guatama b;ir Columbo, and I kept
them at the1r work for three hundred
years, which was up to the time of
tb.'e establishment of the republic of
Guatama, which I, thy God, provided
to be untrammelled by an established
Teligion. ·
12. After my workmen, the scholars
and infi'dels, bad thus undermined the
old edifice, behold, I sent labourers,
under the name of merchants and
traders, to commence clearing away
the rubbish.
13. And because of their desir'es in
money-getting, they considered not the
religious · edifice of any people, ·and
they provided comity relations whither-
soever they went.
14. For a hundred years, these, my
labourers, have been at their work,
stripping off and clearing away the
pre3udice of nations and peoples
against one another.
15. And then, behold, I came with
my builders, and I prepared a new
foundation, broader and· wider and
firmer, for an edifice adapted to all
the nations and peoples in the world.
16. First, I sent my miracle workers
forth into every quarter, saying unto
them·: Whats.oever was done by the
ancient Gods and Saviours, do ye even
so, and greater. For I will show unto
all the world, that no man nor God is
W<?rthy to be worshipped because of
m1racles.
17. And they went forth at my com-
mand, and my angels went with them,
doing wonders. ·
18. They healed the sick by the lay-
ing on of hands; they r estored the
blind to sight, and made the deaf to
hear, and have brought the supposed
dead to life. .
19. They have caused writing to come
on stone tablets, and on paper, in the
light of day, by unseen hands.
20. They have causiid ponderous
bodil)s, without mortal coutact, to
move, and to beat time to music.
21. A child hath lifted eight fuli-
grown men with her little finger .
22. They have passed full-blown
flowers and plants through boards and
tables, unbruised and uninjured, and, ·
yet, there was neither hole nor open-
ing in the boards and tables.
23. They have made stars of light
that spake with audible voices ; they
have made pillars of fire by night, and
·pillars of cloud by day.
24. They have caused the spirits of
the dead to appear as if in flesh and
blood; and, whilst thus appearing,
to talk face to face with their mortal
kin, who saw them, heard them, and
by the subj ect of the discourse, proved
them to be the ver y angels of heaven,
r eturned to their eurth-kin and friends.
25. For the time of one generation
thy God hath thus kept open the gates
of heaven; working through mortals
by the angels of heaven.
26. My testimony and my witnesses
are hundreds of t housands. I hide
not the ·work of my hand and of my
angels in a corner; I extend . them
abroad over the ea rth; I manifest in
the cities and country places; I prove
unto all peoples, th.at common men
and women can do the miracles for
which Gods and Saviours have been
worshipped.
27. Yea, I give these powers nnto
good and bad men, and unto good and
bad women.
28. For I show miracles in order to
break down the worship of miracle-
workers.
29. For I will have none worshipped
but J ehovih. And I have inspired
angels to this end, and to the end that
good works and wisdom shall be,
henceforth, the means of resurrection
in heaven.
30. And I have shown also that only
by harmony and the union of many,
can any great good come unto the
generations of men.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
GOD REVEALETH HIS METHOD OF WORK.
GOD said : Think not, 0 man, that
thy God goeth about a work with-
out sy~tem and order.
· 2. Verily, these are the first of my
considerations.
3. First, I send my loo'is, i:hy mas-
ters of generations, down to the earth,
to the nations and peoples where I de-
sign to build my ed1fice.
4. And my loo'is, by inspiration, con-
trol the marriages of certain mortals,
that heirs may be born into the world
suited to the work I have on haud.
5. For many generations my loo'is
790.
THE BOOK OF JUDGMENT. S9
labour to this end, raising up thou-
sauds and tens of thousands of mortal
heirs according to my commandments.
6. So, 0 man, since four hundred
years my loo'is shaped mortal births
to bring about the armies of thy God.
7. And now, when the time of kosmon
had come, behold, 1 sent my Lords and
my numerators, to receive the harvest
and the records of my loo'is.
8. Thus, 0 man, thy God knew
beforehand what part and what place
each and every one of his mortal
labourers was adapted to.
,,. 9. And through my Lords and
generals and captains of my angel
hosts, 1 commanded them to fall to
work on my building.
10. Some to heal the sick, some to
work signs and miracles, some to lec-
ture, some to write, and so on, every
one according to the work of his
adaptation.
11. And all of this is to one purpose;
not to build up or exalt any man, nor
God, nor religion, but to found Jeho-
vih's kingdom on earth~
12. To give man the system of uni-
versal peace, love, harmony, and kos-
mon, adapted to all nations and peoples
in all the world.
13. And 1 commanded my Lords and
angels, generals and captains to this
end; and I, furthermore, commanded
certain angel registrars to accompany
and be with mortals in this, the kos-
inon era, to observe them at the work
1 provided them.
14. And whoso doth a good work in
truth, r ighteousness, wisdom and love,
my holy angels are commanded to
extend their sphere of usefulness and
light.
15. 1 said unto my angels : Go ye
with these proofs before mortals, with
signs and miracles; go to the r ich
and the poor, to the learned and to
the unlearned. And ye shall observe
them, as to what use they make of the
new revelations.
16. For some shall appropriate these
things to money-making; some to per-
sonal fame; some to evi[ purposes; but
a few to the glory of the Almighty, and
the exaltation of mankind.
17. Try ye all mortals, and make a
register of them and their behaviour,
and preserve the same in my heavens.
18. And it shall come to pass that
many of my seers shall have great
poverty and great hardships, for they
will be unsuited to serve mammon.
Nevertheless, they shall convert the
r ich, proving my truths unto them .
And my seers shall go to tP,em in dis-
tress, and the rich shall Cleny them,
and refuse them.
19. Make a record of these also. For,
in course of time, and because of the
hardness of their hearts, 1 shall with-
draw my holy angels away from such
rich people, and they shall be left to
fall into the obsession of druj as.
· 20. And their families shall be ob-
sessed, their wives, or husbands, or
sons, or daughters.
21. And the druj as shall divide the
families, turning a man against his
father, and a daughter against a
mother, and a daughter-in-law against
her mother-in-law.
22. For whoever goeth away from
me, paying t ribute to satan, 1 will
not follow after.
23. And the drujas shall say : Think
not we are come to send peace on
earth, we come not to bring peace, but
to bring a sword.
24. And families of the unrighteous,
being obsessed with drujas, shall keep
. secret their convictions, and they shall
sa;y: : 'rhis is lunacy, meaning de-
rangement.
25. Others, being asked if they be~
long to the new dispensation, shall say:
Nay, we know nothing of it; behold, we
are good members of the church !
26. And now, accordingly, all such
mattere were recorded in my beavens,
and such mortals became known to me.
27. And such as consulted the spirits
in regard to money-making, or to
earthly matters, for self's sake, also
became known to me.
28. And I commanded my holy angels
to withdraw from all mortals who
were not working for Jehovih's 1!0W
kingdom, who were of no profit in the
resurrection of man; and, behold, this
was also done. ·
29. And it came to pass that many to
whom 1 had offer ed the exalted work
fell into the hands of the drujas. And
they held conferences, and were divided,
man against man, and woman against
woman; full of boasting and short-
sighted wisdom, seeking the applause
of the multitude.
30. And so my angels sifted them and
sorted them, in order to find such as
were willing to sacri:fice self for the
sake of the Father's kingdom. '
31. These, 1 drew aside, and 1 said
nnto them \. Ye that choose to serve
J ehovih, be ld, J ehovih ..hath chosen
you also. ·
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
GOD BHOWETH THE MIBTAKES OF MAN'B
JUDGMENT.
GOD said { 1 said unto thee, 0 man,
pursue thy wisdom after the man-
ner of thy God.
791
40 OAHSPE.
2. I go to the beginning; I labour not
so much to convert adulte, as to pre-
pare the minds of the young.
3. Now, behold, because I told thee
this, thou sought to have children born
unto thee after the manner of Gods.
4. Thou saidst : I 'understand the new
kingdom; I have the solution for rais-
ing up a new generation on the earth.
1 have chosen me my women, who also
comprehend, and, behold, our offspring
will be very Gods !
5. But 1 admonished thee, saying :
Thou openest the door for adultery;
thou shalt surely go down.
6. Thou wouldst not profit by the
wisdom of ages. 1 had holden up my
hand, and said : One wife, one husband !
7. Now, hear me, 0 man: In a new
cycle man ever runneth to the ex-
treme opposite of the old errors, and
thus bringeth upon himself new ones
that he knew not of.
8. I say unto thee : The new edifice
shall be of all that was good of the
past, of things proven in heaven and
on earth.
9. Also, 1 say unto thee, it shall be
of the young, and not of the adult.
10. Because thou hast attempted to
heget offspring for the new kingdom,
thou, of all men, art the most unfit.
11. My labourers shall not have desire
to be either fathers or mothers. Nor
shall they seek in any way things that
belang on the earth; nor have passions
that belang only to the earth.
12. Nevertheless, they shall be the
founders of the Father's kingdom on
earth, and with the young.
strength and suppleness and swiftness;
and as to virtue and modesty; and as
to education, practical and theoreti-
cal; and as to industry and quick per-
ception; and as to willlngness to work
for one another ; and .;,0 trades and
occupatious; and as to pastimes, amuse-
ments and recreations, singing, dancing
and playing with gr eat joy and delight ;
and as to worship, to r ites and cer e-
monies; and as to acquiring seership
and prophecy and signs and mir acles,
in su'is and sar'gis; as to communing
with angels, and as to the value of
angels as teachers and instructors by
tangible!resence and audible voices.
18. An yet, above all things, thou
shalt preserve liberty unto all, with
pleasant and enjoyable discipline for
everythin~, after the manner of my
heavenly Jringdoms.
19. Remembering that every faculty
in every one shall be cultivated to the
utmost.
20. Teaching them from the first
that the eye of J ehovih is upon them,
and that His hand is stretched over
them, to bless them, accordiug to thei;r
goodness, purity, love, gentleness and
wisdom.
21. And that t hey shall not own nor
possess individually ; but that all things
are Jehovih's, and they, themselves are
angels in mortal form, created by
J ehovih to rej oice and to help one
another for ever.
CHAPTER XXXIX.
13. They shall gather up orphans
and castaways in infancy, and take GOD PROVIDETH FOR INCREASll.
them into colonies, hundreds and GOD said: Wh,en thy 'ed ucational
thousands of them. colony of infants shall have grown
14. And these infants lshall be fed up to manhood and womanhood, they
and clothed and raised np, not after shall understand that, as they were
any man's whim or conceit, but once homeless and fat herless, and ye
according to the accumulated wisdom gathered them up, and provided unto
collected from all the different nations them, even so shall they go, and do
and peoples in all the world, as to likewise, gathei-ing up from the Uzians
how to make the best corporeal and other orphans and castaways, and r ais-
spiritual men and women. ing them in other colonies, after the
15. Behold, it hath been proven in same manner.
the warrior and pugilist how to r aise 2. And it shall come to pass that
a savage man, by flesh diet and inhar- many will desire to marry, and it
monious surroundings; and in nations shall be granted unto them to choose
and tribes of peace, how to raise a vir- amongst their own people, and marry
tuous and industrious man, on herbs whom they will.
and fruit diet. 3. But it shall be a law that no man
16. ·These are things for th ee to nor woman shall marry more than
learn, 0 man, going at the subj ect one time.
systematically, to find the best way to 4. W hether the par tner die, or
make the best man and woman out of whether they divorce themselves, yet,
the infants entrusted to thee. to none other shall either ever wed
17. Not only as to diet, but as to more.
clothing, and as to comfort and clean- 5. Also it shall be a law, that, at
liness, and to avoid disease; and as to maturity, if any one desireth to leave
792
THE BOOK OF JUDG M ENT. 41
the colony, he shall do so .without
hindrance or prej udice.
6. Though it shall be inculcated into
them, during their youth, that, at
maturity t hey are supposed to swarm
out, after the fashion of bees, becom-
ing too numerous for one hive, and go
and form a new colony ; that in all
things they shall be taught not to do
anything for self's sake, but for the
good of man and for the honour and
glory of J ehovih.
7. And these things shall come to
pass with these people :
8. They shall abj ure wat;
9. They shall be non-resistants ;
10. They shall have su'is, and shall
see without their mortal eyes, and hear
without their mortal ears.
11. My angels shall appear before
them, and walk with them, talking to
them, and teaching them of my
kingdoms.
12. And angels of the l'hin race will
come to them; and of the I'huans, and
of all other veoples whereof mention
is made in th1s ÜAHSPE.
13. And mortals sha11 recover from
the libraries in heaven things that
have been lost on the earth, as to
languages and histories of tens of
thousands of years ago.
14. And mortals shall prophesy truly
of things in heaven and on the ear th.
15. And many shall attain adeptism,
and, in spirit, go out of their mortal
bodies, and appear hundreds of miles
away, and there make themselves
known; and they will return again to
their mortal bodies, unhar med.
16. All t hese, and even gr eater things,
shall my angels teach them.
17. Flatter not thyself, 0 man, that
these things can come in Uz, or t hat
they can come suddenly. Th ey can
neither come to Uziaus, nor can they
come suddenly.
18. lt is not the work of thy God in
this cycle to raise up any man to be-
come worshipful because of such won-
ders; it is my work to show man how
ha shall attain ~o these things himself.
19. F or this reason I come not, in this
day, to call sinners to repentance, nor
to gather up the lost sheep of Israel.
20. 1 come now to the wise and pure
who have fulfilled the for mer com-
mandments.
21. I come to give t hem a new lesson,
which is, to show them how to build
the Father 's kingdom on earth.
22. I come to raise up a new people
in the world, greater than have ever
been.
23. Those that I sent have cleared
away the old edifice. 1 come not as a
destroyer; 1 come as a builder.
24. Into thy hands, 0 man, I give the
key to the heavenly kingdoms. Re-
member the passwor<l which admitteth
thee to the all highest kingdoms is,
JEHOVI H , THE 1 AM.
END OF THE BOOK OF JUDGnlENT.
1 Uz. "World's people."
z lt is a remarkable coincidence, that as soon
as the Brahmans began to preach Brahma, in-
stead of Ormazd lthe Creator), they lost the
signs and miracles of tbe ancients. The same
thing came to the Buddhists, as soon as they
began to preacb Buddha, the signs and miracles
left tbem. And the same thing bappened to the
Christians ; as soon as they made an idol of
Christ, signs and miracles Jeft them. T he Roman
catholics have freQuently pretended to have the
signs, but it is only a pretence. Manifesta.tions,
like those at Lourdes (even if true), are b~ t the
tricks and games of druias. as the results show.
BOOK OF INSPIRATION.
CHAPTER 1.
THESE are the words of Tae, in '
kosmon: I am Light; I am Cen-
tral, but Boundless, saith Jehovih.
2. I give thee of My Light; and wben
thou hast received, thou criest out:
Behold, I am wise !
3. Thy corpor I made, in which to
localize thee; to mature thy entity.
4. Without Me thou hadst not come
to life. -Thou art as the end of a. ray
of light from·My Person.
5. And thou art focalized in thy
corporeal body. .
6. I am to thy spirit as is the sun to
a ray of light. 1 am the Light that
illuminateth t hy soul.
7. The ray of light that goeth out of
Me, taketh root in mortality, and thou
art the product, the tree.
8. Thou wert nothing; though all
things that constitute thee were before.
9. These I drove together and quick-
ened.
10. Thus 1 made thee.
11. After the manner 1 made thee
corporeally, so made I thee spiritually,
intellectually.
12. As out of corpor I made thy
corporeal body, so out of My Light,
which is My Very Self, I built thee up
in spirit with consciousness that tbou
art.
13. Thou canst not aad one jot or
tittle to thy corporeal self of thine own
will and exertion.
14. lt is by and throngh Me that the
process of absorption by the blood add-
eth unto thee.
15. Thy blood floweth in thy veins
because of My quickening power-upon
thee.
16. When I withdraw My band thou
diest. Life and death are of Me.
17. All thy corporeal part is, there-
fore, of Me and through Me.
18. Even so is thy spirit of Me also.
19. And as thou canst not add a frac-
tion to thy corporeal seif, neither canst
thou add a fraction to thy spiritual
self.
20. Out of Myself groweth thy spirit.
self, manufacture, nor acquire nor
take unto thyself, one new thougbt,
nor idea, nor invention. ·
22. All thought and knowledge and
judgment which thou hast, 1 gave unto
thee. 1
23. As the whirlwind gathereth up
dust, and driveth it toward a centre,
so is the plan of My universe.
24. Thou art as a centre; all tbings
come to thee from without.
25. Thy knowledge, as well as thy
corporeality, came to thee from with-
out, from that which was external to
thyself.
CHAPTER II.
THOU art of inspiration made, saith
Jehovih.
2. 1 made thee a corporeal body,
and 1 wrote upon it. The result thou
art.
3. And I made thee susceptible, so
all things external to thyself coutd
write upon thee.
4. The sum of these is thy know-
ledge.
5. As it is with thee, so is it with
all men, and with all the living which
I created.
6. Nor is there any knowledge in the
world but what I gave.
1. All of it is My inspiration.
8. II Man said : By certain measure-
ments 1 teach my son mathematics.IJ
~- I am back of all, saith J ehovih.
10. I taught thy fatber's father, .and
· all who were before him. The sum of
all of' man's knowledge is but man's
capacity to perceive My Light.
11. J. made thee my servant to teach
thy son by certain measurements.
'I'his was the road I made to reach thy
son's soul.
12. II Man said: I know more than
did my fatber; and yet my father
knew more than did his father. We
reason, we digest, we compound from
one another.11 ·
21. Neither canst thou, of thine own
79„
13. I am the All External; from Me
BO 0 K 0 F 1 N S P 1 RAT I 0 N. 2
are smaller lights focalized, saith
Jehovih.
14. A man holdeth a condensing lens
to the sun, and he lighteth a fire
t hereby. but yet the lens contained
not the heat.
15. After such manner hast thou
accumulated knowledge; yet no know-
ledge was of thine own begetting, but
all came from Me. I gave it aW
16. The increase of knowledge now
upon the earth, with all the races of
men, is only the increase I gave. Man
·of himself created none of it.
17. Neither canst thou create one
thought, nor idea, nor impulse.
18. Thou canst only gather together
from My harvests, or from Me in
Person.
CHAPTER III.
THE eye of man l made to obtaiu
knowledge by light ;1but the ear of
man I made to obtain knowledge from
darkness, and within darkness, saith
J ehovih.
2. The power of touch 1 gave to
man, whereby he might learn of things
their adaptability and compatibility
and incompatibility with himself.
3. These are the corporeal doorways
· I gave unto thee, 0 man, whereby thou
mightest receive knowledge from Me
and My creations, conscio.usly to thy-
self.
4. Through these thou are constantly
these stores, and thy memory cometh
forth wonderfully.
13. This is the manifestation of in-
spiration which 1 bad previously given
thee.
14. I made thee that thou ehouldst
receive inspiration, not on ly from
the world external to thyself, but in-
spiration from the members of thy
body. ·
15. My impression upon thee is in-
spiration; but thou must realize My
inspiration in order to know Me.
16. An idiot holdeth fire in his hand,
and it givetb hini pain, but yet he
knoweth uot the cause, nor whence the
origin of the pain.
17. So, also, I come to thee and give
thee inspiration, but thou discerneth
not Me.
18. Another man discerneth My Pre-
sence, and My inspiration. He heareth
Me speak; he seeth My Person.
19. Yet I am with both alike.
20. One man openeth his mouth to
speak, and, behold, My words come
fortli. ·
21. And yet another saith: No man
knoweth Jehovih; none have heard
Hirn.
22. One man is sensitive, as a plate
for a picture, and he catcbeth My
Light mstantly, and knoweth it is
from Me.
23. Another one saith: A 'sudden
thought struck me ! But he discern-
eth not whence it came.
CHAPTER IV.
impregnated; through these thy soul
accumulateth knowledge of My works.
5. Whatsoever is charged upon these
doorways of thy soul is inspiration. wREN the infant is young, My
6. When thou seest bread thou art Light is its first knowledge,
inspired to eat; when thou seest a saith Jehovih.
horse thou art inspired· to ride; when 2. lt seeth Me and heareth Me; and
thou touchest a nettle thou art inspired it seeth and heareth My ang~l s.
with pain. 3. By the pressure of My Light upon
7. Yet, in all cases, thou must have its corporeal eyes and ears it learneth
practice before thou canst compre- to see and hear corporeally.
hend the inspiration that cometh to 4. This is the beginning of two senses,
thee from these external things. which I created to grow parallel to
8. II Man saith : To-day I r emember each other and equal in strength.
my. friend whom I saw not for many 5. But the infant being in the cor-
a year.11 poreal world, h eedeth more the things
9. Jehovih saith: I made tbee as a tbat appeal to the corporeal senses
store-house, and as a' book that was tban such as appeal to the J:lpiritual
written before. senses.,
10. And I gave to thee power to 1 6. So that one person groweth up
r e-read thy stores and thy book within forgetting Me and My angels. He is a
thy soul. sceptic.
11. This was the accumulated inspi- 7. But· another pel"S'on groweth up
ration wbich I had previously given remembering Me and My angels. He
thee. is a believer.
12. When thou art fevered, or 8. And, behold, thou, 0 man, in-
entranced, or in diverse action from quirest of them : Whence came the
thy usual bent, thy soul turneth fr; t ~ idea of a Creator, an All Person?
795
3 OAHS P E.
9. And one of them ·answereth t hee :
lt is .inher ent, it is natural.
10. But the other answereth : lt is
folly ; it came from darkness.
11. But I say unto thee, 0 man:
Darkness cannot create an idea ; not
even darkness would be known but for
the light I make beside it.
12. Thou canst not imagine any
animal under the sun which 1 have
not created.
13. II Mari said : I imagine a horse
with a fish's head and fins.11
14. Whatsoever thou inventest, saith
J ehovih, .thou but takest the parts' of
one of My creations, and puttest t hem
to another.
15. Let this prove unto t hee, if thou
canst not invent a new living crea-
t ure, t hat thy forefathers did not do
so either in r egard to Me.
16. Nevertheless, thou hast a thought
and an idea of Me and of My P erson.
17. And thou h ast a thought, and an
idea of the spirits of the dead.
18. By My Presence and inspiration
upon t hee, I taught thee I am the I
AM, a person.
19.· By t he inspiration and presence
of My angele I taught thee of them
also.
20. My inspiration upon the bird
causeth it to sing ; by My Presence I
teach it to build its nest.
21. By My Presence 1 colour one rose
red and another white. ·
22. Proof of My P erson is in the
harmony of t he whole, and of every
one being a person of itself, perfect in
its order .
CHAPTER V.
TWO kinds of voices have I , saith
J ehovih: The silent voice and the
audible voice.
2. All men 1 created susceptible to
one or t he other of My voices, and
many to both. .
3. One man heareth My voice in the
breeze, and in thunder, and in music.
4. Another hear eth My voice in the
flowers of the field, and in the scenery
of the mountains.
5. And yet another feeleth My in-
spiration; and h e skippeth up the
mountain side and tireth not on the
way.
6. He that neither seeth nor feeleth
My inspiration goeth up the mountain
in gr eat labour. ·
weli, t hen he shapeth My Light into
cor poreal words.
9. '1.'hese 1 taught man to call My
revealed words.
10. Nevertheless, no corporeal man
created 1 perfect ; neither can any man
reveal My words perfectly.
11. But 1 created the way open unto
all men, to try to reveal Me.
12. According to mim's approxima-
tion to perfect manhood, so reveal I
unto him, by My Presence and My
words.
13. According to man's imperfection
in manhood, so doth not My inspira-
tion manifest on his senses.
14. Perfect manhood created 1 pos·
sible, in equ al corporeal and spiritua
senses.
15. Strong corporeal senses and weaL
spiritual senses getract man from M.r
P resence, and make him infidel to M,1
P erson.
16. Such a man denieth My inspira.-
tion and the inspiration of My angeln.
He is little more than a forest trec',
which hath a trunk and manv
branches, but moveth not from its
place.
CHAPTER VI.
I AM One Spirit, saith J ehovih.
2. My quickening power is upon
all the living ; because of this they live
and move.
3. According to the different struc-
ture of the livini;i-, so is My inspiration
manifested by tnem.
4. One, as the h are, runneth away
in cowardice; another, as a lion, is
ferocious ; another without judgment,
as the serpent.
5. And as t o man : One is inspired
to music; another to mathematics;
another to seership, and so on.
6. To all of these I am the One, the
Universal I nspirer that moveth all of
them.
7. According to their organic struc-
ture, so do they manifest My inspira-
tion.
8. The lowest of living creatures
made 1 the serpent, for I gave to him
an element capable of destro.ving him-
self. · ·
9. When the earth was encircled
-With poisonous gases, 1 createcl poison-
ous vines and weeds and t rees and all
kinds of herbs, rich-growing upon the
ear th.
10. Thus from destroying gases and
from eart b-substance createcl 1 the
vegetable world. And in that day, all
growing things u pon t he eart h which
I had created were poison as to animal
7. In proportion as man is clear in
his corporeality and in his spirit, so
cl iscerneth he My inspiration.
as life.
796
8. And if he h ave great purity
BOOK 0.1!' . lNSPIRATION. t
mit knowledge to his brethren by
words.
11. Then I cr eated the serpents; of
all sizes created l them. And they
were poison also.
12. And the serpents 1 created were
car nivorous, feeding upon one another.
Self-impregnating created 1 them.
13. Thus drove 1 the poison of the
air down into vegetation, and t hence
into the animal world; thus"I purified
the air of heaven.
14. This was the first creation 1
created on this world.
15. Then 1 overcast the earth with
falling nebulre, and covered up the
poisons growing upon the earth, and
they were turned to oil and coal.
16. Then 1 made a new creation;
giving feet and legs and bones to the
animals 1 designed for the ear th.
17-
. And when the ear th was ripe for
man, then 1 created him; male and
female created 1 those of the second
creation.
18. And man was dumb, like other
animals; without speech and without
understanding, even less than any
other creature which I had created.
1 19. Nevertheless, I had·given to man,
::md thus made him, out of the dis-
solved elements of every living thing
that had preceded him.
-1 20. And man partook of the first and
the second creatiomi. After the man-
ner of every animal on the earth, so
created I man; with all the character-
istics of all of them, so created 1 him,
male and female created 1 them.
21. And man was unconscious of his
creation, not knowing whence he
came; nor knew he whioh was his own
species.
22. And 1 sent angele to man; to
teach him who he was, and to rouse
him up to hie capabilities for which 1
created him. ·
23. And my angels drew from man's
side, sub2tance, and thus took on
corporeal forms; and the angels dwelt
with man as helpmates, to make map.
understand.
CHAPTER VII.
4. And to man only gave 1 capacity
to comprehend an idea of Me, his
Creator. ·
5. Neventhele'}B, I inspire all living
animals which 1 created; but they
know it not.
6. 1 inspire the spider to make its
net; the bird to build her nest; the
wild !l'oose to fly to the south before
the wmter cometh; the mare to neigh
for her colt; the ant to lay 'in its
stores; the bees to dwell in a queen-
dom, and so on; every living creature
do 1 move and control by My inspira-
tion upon them.
7. Males and females 1 inspire to
come together at times and seasons;
and then to live apart during gesta-
tion. These 1 keep before man as a
lesson of the wisdom of My inspiration.
8. To man 1 give liberty to acquire
wisdom by observing the method of
My work as I manifest in other living
creatures.
9. 1 have also given man capacity to
attain to know My inspiration in
contradistinction from the inspiration
he receiveth from his surroundings.
10. 'fo no other creature gave I this
capacity.
11. What cometh of Me is without
pain or injury to any one, and with
liberty unto all. Such are My in-
spirations.
12. When man witnesseth a battle,
he is inspired to battle; when he wit-
nesseth peace and love, he is inspired
to peace and love.
13. What moveth man in consonance
and wisdom, and to life, is My in-
spiration.
14. What moveth man in disconson-
ance and folly, and to death, is
inspiration from man's surroundings.
15. I inspire tne serpent to bite to
death; for thus created 1 it. This is
no sin, for it fulfilleth its labour; it
is the remnant of poison of other eras.
16. Man 1 created not to destruction,
but to life, wisdom, peace and love
toward all. ~
17. When man practiseth virtue,
wisdom, truth and love unto all, his
I CREATED man, even from t~e inspiration is from Me direct.
- first, that he should learn to be an 18. Whan man practiseth destruction
independent being, saith Jehovih. and selfishness, his inspiration is in-
2. And when My angels had taught directly from Me, through t he conflict
man speech, making man name all the of bis surroundings. .
animals in the world, after the names 19. And thus becometh he evil, in-
the animals called themselves, I com- stead of good.
manded My angels to come away from 20. By direct inspiration do 1 move
man, for a season. upon a ll the animals I created.
3. To My angels 1 said : Behold, of 21. This 1 also created possible unto
all the animals 1 created in the world, rnen, separate from indirect inspira-
to man only gave 1 capacity to trans- tion.
797
1
OAH SPE.
CHAPTER VIII.
ALTHOUGH all inspiration goeth
from Me to all the living, directly,
yet 1 also created mf!.n susceptible to
iudirect inspiration from all My
creations.
~ Whatsoever receivefh from Me
direct, is in harmony with Me.
3. The lily and the rose 1 created
perfect in their order; the female bfrd
1 inspire to build her nest in season,
perfect in her order.
4. Even so is it with all My created
heings, save man. All the rest err
not, in the order 1 made t hem; and
they a ll fulfil the glory for which I
made them.
5. But because 1 made man capaci-
tated to receive inspiration from all
things, he manifesteth both evil and
good; according to his birth and sur-
roundings, so is man good or bad.
6. Nevertheless, 1 created man with
capacity to comprehend this also; for
1 designed him from the first to work
his way up to the Godhead, under-
standing all below him.
7. And 1 sent My angels to man,
teaching him how to distinguish the
difference in the iuspirations upon
him, that he might govern himself
accordingIy.
8. And my angels said unto man:
Become thou one with thy Creator;
th.
ese are His direct inspirations :
9. II To love thy Creator above all
else, and t hy nejghbour as thyself.
10 To give del ights only, and not pain.
11. To kill not.
12. To do not violently against His
creatures.
13. To be consicferate of the liberty
of all the living.
14. To interdict not the happiness
and hope of others, only where thou
canst return a transcenclen t glory and
hope in place ther eof.
15. For these are direct inspirations
from thy Creator.
16. But these are thy evil inspira-
tions, 0 man, these come from thy
birt h and surroundings, formerly
ca1led satan :
17. To kill.
18. To slander.
19. To punish. .
20. To destroy ·Jehovih's created
bcings.
21. To strive for thyself above an-
ot her.
22. To gratify thy flesh at the ex-
pense of purity or wisdom.
23. To be false to J ehovih.
24. To be false to thyself.
25. To speak falsely.
26. To covet another's.
27. To cohabit in the gestative period.
28. To engage in strife, or to aid
and abet conflicts, which are the fruit
of carnivorous food, transmitted in
birth.11
CHAPTER IX.
MAN 1 created with capacity to
distinguish My direct from My
indirect inspirations, sait b J ehovih.
2. And My angels gave him rules,
whoreby he might make manifest tbe
difference betwixt the two.
3. Man has said : Behold, any man
may say: Thus sait h J ehovih ! üne
killeth his neighbour, saying: 1 was
thus inspired of J ehovih. Another
practiseth all goodness, and bis words
are wisdom and comprehension, and
he saith : 1 tvas inspired by J ehovih !
4. 1 say unto thee, 0 man : In this
1 also gave thee liberty ; thercfo re,
judge thou, thyself, which came from
Me, arid which from bis surroundings
(satan). ·
5. Thou shalt be thine own judge in
all things.
6. Behold, 1 sent My God to judge
thee; but thou shalt also judge the
judgments of thy God; and, after-
ward, thou shalt judge thyself in the
~m e wa~ . ,
7. A perpetual juclge created 1 thee,
not only to j udge thyself a nd all the.
·world beside, but thou shalt judge
Me, thy Creator.
8. 1 have given thee many sacred
books, and I said to thee :
9. Save thou judgest them, thou
shalt be caught in a snare; 1 charge
thee, thou shalt accept nothing from
men, nor angels, nor Gods.
10. But tho u shalt rely on thine own
inspiration from thy Creator.
798
11. Such is My word which 1 speak
to thine own soul.
12. Wbat cometh to thee from a man
is indirect inspiration; what cometh
from an angel is ind irect; and what
cometh from the Gods is indirect.
13. No direct inspiration of •Me can
come to t hee from a book, nor a
ser mon, nor from nnythjng in all My
creations, but only from Me, thy
Creator.
H . Though one man receive direct
inspiration from Me, and he write it
in a book, yet, when it corueth to
thee, it is indirect inspiration, and is
not binding upon thee, only so far as
My direct inspiration upon, thee
ruoveth thee to receive it.
BOOK OF 1 N SPIRATION. 6
15. Yet not all men created 1 with
the same clearness to perceive Me, and
to frame My wisdom in words.
16. Few only will turn away from
the inspiration of the world, and come
unto Me.
17. Many profess Me in words, but
they do not fulfil My inspiration in
practice.
18. My words come easily to the pure
in heart; and My wisdom showeth
itself in the frame of their speech.
19. For I give them words, even as
1 give to the animal inspiration to do
perfectly and wisely the parts for
which I created them.
20. Behold, I show the dumb spider
how to weave its geometrical net; is
it greater wonder for Me to give words
of wisdom to a righteous man?
21. Or to put him in the way of
receiving My revelations?
22. Or to show him the harmony
and glory of My creationsP.
CHAPTER X.
I N the first creation none heard Me,
or saw Me, saith Jehovih.
2. And even to this day many men
deny Me and My Person.
3. To teach thee, 0 man, that thou
shouldst be considerate of thy bro-
ther's talents, behold, what a labour 1
for My Gods and ministering angels !
4. To show thee that no two men
see alike anything I created;
5. To make thee cautious, that, be-
cause thou canst not hear Me, thou
shalt not judge thy brother who can
hear Me;
6. To induce thee thus and thus,
without interfering with thy liberty ;·
7. To make thee watchful, to learn
by thine own inspiration from Me;
8. To make thee sceptical to others'
versions of My words, and yet .make
thee try to discover My words and My
Person, of thina own seif, to see Me
and hear Me.
9. Now, behold, in the olden times,
only here and there one in all the
world, could be made to comprehend
Me.
10. As thou mayest say to the beast
in t,he field, or to the dog, the most
knowing of animals : J ehovih ! Jeho-
vih !
11. And they will not hear thee
understandingly :
12. So was it with nearly all the
world in the olden time. ·
13. To-day 1 have qufokened many.
14. To-morrow the whole of the people
in all the world shall know Me.
15. This is the progress 1 ·created
possible unto thee; this road shalt
thou travel.
16. Thou hast blockaded the way
against Me on every side.
17. Thou hast put Me away, and
said: Natural law ! Moral law !
Divine law ! Instinct ! Reflection !
Intuition ! Second sight !
18. 1 say unto thee: I have abolished
all these things. 1 will have ·
them no
more, forever !
19. I have no. laws; I do by virtue
of Mine own Presence.
20. I am not far away; behold, I am
with thee.
21. I gave no instinct to any
creature under the sun. By My Pre-
sence they do what they do.
' 22. I give no tuition by intuition; I
am the Cause to all, and for all.
23. 1 am the most easily understood
of all things.
24. My hand is ready to whomsoever
will reach forth unto Me.
25. My Voice is ready and clear to
whomsoever will turn away from other
things, and away from philosophers
and ambiguous words, serving Me in
good works.
26. My Light is present, and answer-
eth unto all who follow their all
highest knowledge.
CHAPTER XI.
SEEK not to force My gospels, and
entice followers unto this, or that,
saith Jehovih.
2. Neither go about preaching, say-
ing : Thus saith J ehovih !
3. Let all men hear Me in their own
way.
4. No man shall follow another.
5. 1 will have no sect.
6. I will have no creed.
7. I am 1l;Ot exclusive; but I am with
all My--li,.ving creatures.
8. To those who choose Me, .Practis-
ing their all hi~hest light, I am a
shield and fortification against all ·
darkness, and against all evil and con-
tention.11
9. Thou shalt not establish Me by
~·s laws, nor by the government of
man, saith J ehovih.
10. Nor establish by man's laws or
government any book or r evelation,
saying : Behold, this is J ehovih's
book.
11. To keep man from interfering
'199
7 OAHSPE.
with man, this hath been
labour. ,
great he might attain to perfection in all
the attributes of My other living crea-
tures.
12. To teach man .to comprehend
liberty, especially as to thought and
as to knowledge, this hath been a
great labour.
13. For he falleth easily under the
inspiration of his surroundings, and
falleth under the teachings and per-
suasions of his brother.
14. Becau9e he cometh from My hand
into "the world in innocence, a helpless
infant.
15. And his elder brothers take
advantall'e of his innocence, and teach
him their own knowledge, instead of
directing him to Me.
16. And his eitler brothers were in
darkness themselves, and their eitler
brothers before them.
17. I said unto man: Be free ! Learn
to know liberty ! Think for thyself !
Btudy thy Creator in all things, and
in thyself in particular !
18. Turn thou away from thy elder
brothers; come thou to the All Highe8t
Fountain.
19. Be not confounded with abstruse
ll&asonings; out all thingB short, God-
1.fäe; learn thou of the Creator and
His creations, there is nothing more.
20. Thou art one of the seeds of
Jehovih, and wert planted by His
Hand. Be thou free from all the
world.
CHAPTER XII.
8. And I said to man: Be thou obser-
vant of what thou shalt eat and drink,
and where thou shalt dwell by day,
and sleep by night. (
9. For all things shall write upon
thy soul the character and kind where-
of they are made. „
10. If thou wilt be gentle, like a
lamb, and non-resistant and docile, so
thou mayest obtain great knowledge,
feed thou upon herbs and fruits and
cereals.
11. And thy blood shall be pure and
cool, and charged with food for thy
spirit, in peace and love.
12. But if thou wilt be ferocious,
like a carnivorous beast, then thou
shalt feed upon flesh and fish, and thy
blood shall be hot, and thy spirit shall
be stirred with passion and anger and
contention and tattling and war and
j ealousy and love of vengeance.
13. For whatsoever thou charge9t
thy blood with, shall be charged upon
thy spirit. •
14. Because thou canst not feed on
fish nor flesh but through destruction
unto death, even 80, destruction unto
death shall come upon thy soul.
15. From thine own blood shall thy
spirit be ins_pired, even according to
what thy blood containeth.
16. As through corpor thy corporeal
part is nurtured, 80 through the ga8e-
ous, atmospherean part is thy spirit
nurtured.
17. II Woman 8aid: Behold, I kill not
any lamb, nor bird, nor fish·. Others
MAN only, of all My created ani- kill them, but I eat them.11
mals, created I not perfect in his 18. To kill My Iambs and birds, and
order, saith J ehovih. whatsoever I created alive, is a simple
2. The most devoid of knowledge, act, saith Jehovih. Let no man waste
and the most helpless of animals, much speech because of such destruc-
created I man. tions.
3. I gave not to the bird to improve 19. lt is the contamination of the
her feather8; nor yet to improve her blood of man by carnivorou8 food,
species; nor gave I her a book as to whereon thou shR.lt ponder.
the manner of building her nest, 20. Like unto like created I all the
nor as to her behaviour with other living. Whosoever maketh himself
birds. carnivorous, cannot e9cape conflict and
4. Nor said I to the hare: Beware contention within his own members,
of foxes, or go thou, teach thy young soul and body.
to depend on their fleetness. 21. Until the earth was circum-
5. And yet, both birds and beasts scribed I gave man carnivorous food;
move by My inspiration perfectly in to-day I make it poison to him.
the order I made them; the bird doeth 22. And man shall turn away from
her work, and the hare fleeth from the it; and t\ie smell of it shall sicken
fox. him; and the sight of blood shall fill
6. But the child of man will put its him with horror.
finger in a serpent's mouth, and the 23. The butcher shall be ashamed of
child will also eat any deadly poison. his avocation; his neighbours shall
7. Thus differently created I man say to him: Thou stinkest of blood 1
from all other things on earth; but 24. Because thou gavest us flesh, we
1 gave him tl~e foundation whereon also drank to drunkenness•.
800
BOOK OF INSPIRATION. 8
25. Because thou g·avest us flesh, we
also did smoke and take narcotics.
26. Because thou gavest us flesh, we
are rotten with eatarrh, and wasted
in the l u.ngs.
27. Because we feasted on fl.esh, Jeho-
vih answered us in corruptible flesh.
28. Lo, we stink from the sole of our
feet to the crown of our heads.
29! And our of!spring are born into
the world so helpless and corrupt that
half of them die in infancy.
30. Jehovih said: When 1 command
the nations of the earth to peace,
behold I raise My hand above the
carnivorant's head.
31. As there was a time when 1
created every animal perfect in its
order; so also shall such a time come
unto man.
32. And now is the dawn thereof.
Hence, I named it kosmon.
33. As a spider learneth to build her
net without a book, and the bees to
dwell in a queendom in peace and
industry without books and written
laws and instructions as to how to do
this and that, even so, now is a new
birth to the generations of My people.
34. By My direct inspiration upon
them shall they learn to do all things
perfect, in the order of man for which
I created him.
35. Man shall know how to do things
easily, and without the long labour of
books, and without showing, or ex-
planations.
36. As of old I commanded thee to
have dominion over every living thing
I created; so now I command thee to
take the earth and the waters of the
earth and the air above the earth into
thy dominion also.
37. And thou shalt rule over them;
to drive away the heat, and bring the
cold ; to drive away the cold, and bring
the heat, as thou wilt, for the benefit
of all the living.
38. To accomplish which thou shalt
now, first of all, adapt thyself to thy
Creator, according to My highest
Light upon thee:
39. To put away thine own inhar-
mony in thy blood and flesh, and in thy
soul.
40. Opening the way for My inspira-
tion to come direct to thee, that thou
mayest be one with Me.
CBAPTER XIII.
2. Neither am 1 accountable whether
it be well made, or well preserved.
3. And if I cannot make one new
thought nor idea, then are all my
thoughts and ideas Jehovih's, given by
J ehovih, or by His creations.
4. Neither, then, am I accountable
for my thoughts, nor behaviour,
whether they be good or bad. Verily,
then I am not r esponsible for any-
thing, neither what I am, nor what 1
do, nor for what becometh of me. I
am but an automaton; I, myself, am
nothing.
5. J ehovih saith: Because I give thee
liberty, thou art r esponsible for all
thou art, and for all thou makest
thyself, and for all that shall come to
thee, and for thy peace and happiness,
both in this world and the next.
6. Liberty I gave thee as to what
thou shouldst eat, and shouldst wear
to cover thyself, and where thou
shouldst abide. ·
7. I gave thee liberty to build thy
house in thine own way; but, behold,
such liberty I gave not to the bird,
as to her nest, nor to the beaver, nor
to the ant, nor to any other living
creature.
8. Liberty 1 gave thee as to whether
thou should eat herbs or flesh. But
such liberty 1 gave not to any other
living creature.
9. To the sheep and the horse I
said: Eat ye of herbs ; to the tiger and
lion : Eat ye of flesh.
10. To thee I gave libertr to make
thyself carnivorous, or herb1vorous, or
omnivorous.
11. Whatsoever thou didst put in thy
mouth, and it united with thy blood,
and entered thy body, behold, it was
by My labour and by My power it was
accomplished.
12. Verily was 1 thy workman.
13. All that thou didst in the matter
was to choose. Thou wert, in that
respect the master, and 1 thy ser-
vant. And, behold, I made not the
servant responsible for the master's
behaviour.
14. Because thou madest thyself
carnivorous, the fault is thine own. I
placed before thee the herbivorous
animals and the carnivorous animals;
and 1 gave thee eyes to look upon
them as to their behaviour, whether
ferocious and destructive, or peaceful,
patient and docile.
Ui. And I spake unto thy soul, say-
ing : Look, j udge for thyself as to
M AN saith: If 1 cannot add one jot what thou sJ?.alt eat; behold the order
or tittle to !I!Y corporeal bo~y, of My .creations and the result upon
and it is all budt up by Jehov1h, the hvmg.
/
thea, illdeed, it is Bis. 16. Hence thou art a.ccountable :anto
801
• O:A:HSPE.
thyself, and responsible unto all the
world for having made thy corporeal
body as thou hast.
17. I give thee liberty to receive thy
inspiration from drunkards and har-
lots and fighters; or from men of
wisdom, or the innocence of childhood,
or the virtue of a virgin.
18. Even so in regard to thy spirit,
thy soul, thy mind, thy ideas and thy
thoughts, I gave thee liberty in the
same way.
19. To behold a city of oorruption,
or the country, with pure air and
trees and tlowers and mountains and
valleys.
20. And I spake unto thy soul, say-
ing: Choose thou what thou wilt to be
the inspiration of thy mind and spirit
and soul; behold, I, thy Creator, am
thy servant to impregnate thee with
thoughts and ideas. All thou hast t o
do is to choose.
21. Yea, I said : I will even take thee
to whichever place and condition thou
mayest choose.11
22. And, now, because I gave thee
this extreme liberty, and thou hast
ehosen, behold, thou art accountable
to thyself for thine every thought and
idea; and. for thy spirit and soul, and
in thy behaviour to all the world.
23. With liberty I bestowed respon-
sibility also.
24. I am the Power, the Light and
the Life.
25. In one thing thou art not re-
sponsible nor an automaton, and that
is thine own entity, thine own self,
thine own I am.
26. Thyself I gave to thyself, and
even at the zero of thy entity, I said :
Go thou, make thyself. All other
animals I created perfectly with Mine
own hands, but to thee I gave liberty
to make thyself, even as thou hast.
Yea, even in this, I said : Choose tholl,
and I will do the labour Myself for
thee.
27. So that choice and liberty were
the sum total which I gave to thee.
28. Now, therefore, 0 man, as I gave
ehoice and liberty unto thee, so shalt
thou give the same unto thy neighbour
and associate.
29. Without these there is no r espon-
sibility; with these all responsibility.
CHAPTER XIV.
THESE are Tae's revelations of
J ehovih's times and ~easons,
appointed unto the chosen :
2. The shortest day on northern line
of the sun shall be the end of the
year, and shall be called old year's
day, saith Jehovih.
3. And the first day thereafter, when
the sun on his southern course starteth
towards the north, shall be the begin-
ning of the year, and shall be called
new year's day.
4. These are My· times of the end
and the beginning of a year, w:hich I
created; and I made the earth and the
sun as My written testimony thereof.
5. And I blessed and sanctified the
old year's day arid the new year's
day, and I appointed them to be holy
days, that men might remember the
order and the system of My works.
6. And I said unto man : From one
new year's day until the succeeding
one shall be called one year, for it is
one completed oscillation of the earth,
and of her revolution in the . orbit
where I placed her.
7. Therefore, what thou hast com-
pleted within a year shall be remem-
bered by thee, that thou mayest
jutlge thyself therein.
8. And on the old year's day thou
shalt render up in full forgiveness in
all things against all people.
9. And with the setting of the sun
on that day, thou shalt be· purged of
all animosity and claims against every
man, woman and child in all the world.
10. And thou sbalt make acknow-
ledgment of this in words and songs
and prayers, and in tokens of no in-
trinsic value, to whomsoever thou shalt
have offended during the past year.
11. Tae said: For which reason the
old year's day shall be named, the
Most Holy Sabbath Day. Behold, it
is in accord with His heavenly king-
doms. And it' shall be with thee a
day of spiritual communion, and of
praise to J ehovih and His creations;
with music and oratory, and cere-
monies, and processions for thy youth,
orderly and well disciplined.
12. And o·n the new year's day thou
shalt rej oice and sing and dance,
mingling together, old and young,
even as the old year and the new year
are joined together, side by side.
30. Choose thou thine own food and
raiment and thine house; and choose
thou the place, and provide the way
for whatever inspiration thou mayest,
still thou shalt be responsible in all;
whether the result be good -or evil
according to thy choice,\ whether thou
fawn upon satan, OI' emulate thy
Creator.
13. The seventh day of the new year
shall be thy next sabbath day, and it
shall be a day of rest and of spiritual
communion and praise to Jehovih aud
His creations, with singing and oratory.
14. So also shall every seventh day
be a sabbath day; for which reason
8()j
BOOK OF INSPIRATION. 10
seven days shall be one week, being
six days for labour, and one for rest
and worship.
15. For this hath been proven in all
the world to be good for man.
16. These, then, shall be the moon'8
day8:
17. The first new moon's day after
new year's day 8hall be the beginning
of the first month; and the completion
of the fourth quarter of the moon
shall be the completion of the first
month, and it shall be named First
month.
18. The next four quarters of the
moon shall be the 9econd month, and
it shall be named Second month.
19. And the next completed four
quarters of the moon shall be named
Third month. And 90 on, to the com-
pletion of t'he year.
20. Such, then, 9hall be the month8
in any and every year, for these are the
moon's times as Jehovih created them.
21. Neither 8hall it matter or not
whether the months overlap a new
year's day; as they are created and
moved by the Almighty, even so shall
man compute and register them.
22. II For example, a new year's day
may come upon the twentieth day of
the Twelfth moon or on another
moon's day, still, a8 they fall, 90 shall
they be numbered in truth.11
23. As the moon's time differeth to
different continents, , so shall the
months' times of the inhabitants of
different continents be locally unto
them.
- 24. But in the intercourse between
different nations on different contin-
ents, the month times shall not be
enumerated.
25. But in all such cases the year and
the days thereof shall be named.
26. II As, for example, the seventieth
year and the ninety-sixth day.11
27. And it shall come to pass that
the sabbath days all around the world
shall be the same day unto all people,
even with _
,the travel of the sun.
28. Whereby Jehovih's heavenly king-
doms shall be in concert with mortals,
as to times and seasons in all things.
OHAPTER XV.
ing of His compact, as the DAY OF THE
HoLY SEAL. '
2. And the sign thereof He made, A
HAND HOLDING AQUILL.
3. Which shall be the master's sign
of salutation in the lodge on the day
and evening commemorating the same.
4. And J ehovih made the answer to
the master's sign, TBE HOLDING UP OF A
PIECE OF PAPER, signifying, CoNSTITUTION.
5. Therefore it was said : The master
saluted on the sign, DAY OF TBE HOLY
SEAL, and the lodge answered in the
sign, CoNBTITUTION.
6. And J ehovih said : Remember this
day and keep it holy to the end of the 1
world, for hereat was the beginning of
the liberty of man !
CHAPTER XVI,
ES DAY.
AS J ~hovih, thrnu~h His God, pulled
as1de the vell of heaven,1
saying :
2. Let My angele forth; together
shall converse the living and the
dead.
3. So sanctified He the day when the
angels of heaven were made known to
mortals. (March 31st!, 1848.)
4. And Jehovih said: Remember this
day, and keep it holy, to the end of
the world. For without books and
without arguments, behold, I have
proven unto you the continued life of
the soul of man !
CHAPTER XVII.
FREEDOM'S DAY.
A S J ehovih, through His God, de-
livered into freedom Guatama's
slaves, and, thus to general slavery
dealt the final blow, so J ehovih blessed
that day, and sanctified it.
2. Jehovih ~aid: Remember the day
of proclamat10n of freedom, for it is
My day, which I bequeath unto you
as a day of freedom in all righteous
jollification, which ye shall keep every
year, and commemor.ate, to the end
of the world.2
CHAPTER XVIII.
BOLY COMPACT DAY, BOLY KOSMON DAY.
As Jehovih, through His God, be- BESIDE the above, Jehovih gave
queathed to the children of one more holy day, Kosmon Day,
Guatama a government unfettered by which He also commanded to be kept
the name~of God or Lord or Saviour, in commemoration of another matter,
so Jehovih sanctified the day of the which Jehovih commanded tobe secret
ratilication and the signing and seal- with the Faithists for a certain period
803
'
I
·•
l
11 OAHSPE.
IM time, which time hath not expired
to this day. Therefore the day of kos·
mon ill still a secret with the Faithists.
2. And Jehovih said: That mortals
and angele may live and labour in
concert, behold, 1 have given certain
days, whereby !arge congregations on•
earth ma~ be met by My organic
heavens, in reunion, mortals and
angele, for the happiness of both, and
for the glory of My works.
9. Now, behold also, as by My Pre-
sence 1 inspire thee, when thou
labourest with Me, and thou art doing
righteousloj', and with purity and love,
so also is it with thee in regard to My
angele.
4. When thou makest and keepest
thy corporeal body pure and clean, My
angele, who are J>Ure and clean, come
to thee to aid thee, and to enlighten
thee.
5. And when thou puttest away all
unclean thoughts and all selfish de-
sires, and seekest to obtain wisdom,
and to learn how best thou canst help
thy fellow-man, behold, My angele of
light and wisdom come to thee, and,
by virtue of their presence, which
thou seest not, they inspire thy soul
in the light of thy Creator. •
8. Man hath said : 1 will not be a
seer, nor a prophet, nor a su'is, nor
sar'gis; verily 1 will not have angele
with me to teach me, nor to give me
any ll_ght or knowledge under the sun.
7. Whatever 1 can attain, it shall be
111ine own. Wiser ie it for me to
attain to know and to do thinge of
myself, than have angele come and
give to me, or manifest through me.
8. Verily, 1 will not be used by man
nor angel, for it would be prostituting
my flesh and my spirit to others.
9. Behold, my body was given to me
for mine own use and profit, to estab·
lieh and develop mine own soul unto
eternal happinese in individuality.
10. Alike unto all people is My Pre-
eence, eaith J ehovih. 1 am unto the
just and the unjust; 1 am everywhere,
both in darkness and in light. 1
11. Because thou art in darkness
thou beholdest not Me.
12. Because thou art imperfect in
flesh and spirit thou deniest Me.
13. Because thou art confounded with
inharmony thou believest not in Me.
14. He who hath not an ear for music
discovereth not a tune; even as he that
is discordant denieth My Person.
15. To the pure there is no selfish-
ness, neither for earthly things, nor
for their own flesh and spirit.
16. A pure man is as a clear glass;
_
he can see out of himself, and so per- 4
ceive My angels and Me.
17. Through the pure man, pure
angele can see mortality as weil as
spirituality. Their presence inspireth
him to understand all things.
18. As much with the man that is
not a seer, or a su'is, are the angele,
as with those that are seers, or su'is,
or sar'gis.
19. Because thou eeest not, nor
haarest angele, only proveth thy dark-
ness, but proveth not the absence of
angele.
20. To the dark come the dark; with
the dark abide the dark, both angele
and mortals.
21. More is the man of darkness ruled
by angels than is the man of light.
22. Behold, 1 created thee not to fill
any place in all the world for thine
own self's sake.
23. Neither gave 1 thy flesh nor thy
~ epirit to be thine only.
24. These also shalt thou relinquish,
saying : To Thee, 0 J ehovih, 1 give all;
my flesh, my spirit, mind, and all my
service, to be Thine forever.
25. Thon shalt say : Appropriate
Thou me, soul and body, in whatsoever
way Thou canst, that 1 may do the
most good unto others, mortals and
angels.11
26. trntil thou attainest this thou
shalt not hear My voice nor see My
Hand.
27. As 1 gave away Myself and thus
created all things, so shalt thou follow
in My footsteps in order to become one
with Me.
28. Herein lieth the secret of wisdom,
truth, love and power, time without
end. ·
IND 01!' BOOK or INSPIRATION.
1 And Jehovlb gave the slgn, A HAND HOLDING
&SIDE A VEIL, signifylng HEAVE~ UNVEILED, as
the master's sign in the lodge on the day and
evening commemorating the same. And He
gave to the members of the lodge to answer in
the sigo, THRllE CLAPPINGs, signifyiog ENoLEss
JoYI
2 And Jehovih gave to man as the master's
sign in the lodge, A HAND POINTJNG TOWARD A
PEN, signifying, 1 HAVE PROVED THIS MlGHTIER
THAN THE SWORD. And He gave to the members
in the lodge to answer in the sign, CLASPEO
HANDS, AND LOOKING UPWARD, signifyimJ. IN
THY PRAISll, JEHOVIH 1
BOOK OF JEHOVIH'S KINGDOM ON EARTH,
WHl{;H CONTAINBTH WITHIN IT
THE BOOK OF SHALAM.
ALL OF WHICH IS ANTl-SCRIPT.l
CHAPTER I.
I N the early days of the kosmon era.,
a.fter the revela.tions of the Father's
kingdom on earth had been published,
and were known abroad over all the
world, there went forth many in Jeho-
vih's Name, to accomplish unto the
resurrection of man, and for the glory
of the Almighty, the new kingdom.
2. Foremost amongst the many, there
came out of Uz2
one who was esteemed
wise and good above all others; and
because he was· a representative man,
the people named him, Tae.
3. And Tae prayed unto J ehovih for
light and knowledge as to how best he
could a.ccomplish good unto the resur-
rection of the race of man.
4. And J ehovih answered Tae, say-
ing: Go, bring My people out of Uz
and found them in a place by them-
selves; for now is the beginning of the
founding of My kingdom on earth.
5. Tae answered, saying: Behold, 0
Jehovih, 1 have gathered together many
men and many women, and they all
profess a desire to lfound Thy kingdom.
6. One desireth to be a teacher;
another, to be a superintendent; an-
other, an overseer; another, an adviser.
7. And they are all learned and wise
and good in their own way; but, alas,
they are neither workers nor capi-
talists, the two chief of all that I
require. -
8. Now I pray Thee, 0 Fa.ther, what
sha.ll Thy servant do?
9. J bhovih answered Ta.e, sa.ying :
Go, seek, and bring out of Uz orphan
ba.bes and castaway infants a.nd found-
lings.
10. And these sha.ll be thy colony,
which shall be My new kingdom on
earth.
them? Moreover I have not money to
hire nurses.
12. J ehovih said: Have faith in thy
Creator; in a good work done unto My
little ones, behold, 1 will provide.
13. Whatsoever thou dost unto them,
even so dost thou unto Me, wherein
thou shalt not fail.
14. Neither shalt thou stdve to
teach any adult man or woman who is
without faith in Me. Behold, My
people a.re infants in this era.
15. Deal thou with them, and with
such only as are willing to serve them;
for as much as they are served, even
so am I served also.
CHAPTER lf.
SO Ta.e gathered together orphan
ba.bes and <?1staway infants and
foundlings, a great number.
2. And a woman named Es• heard of
Tae and his work, and she came to
him, inquiring :
3. How can a man attend babes?
Now, because I have heard of thy
work, behold, 1 have come to thee to
labour for our Father in heaven.
4. Tae said : Whoso would labour for
our Father in heaven, let her do unto
these little ones.
5. Es said : Even for that I am
before thee; I beseech thee, put me to
work.
6. Tae inq.uired : Knowest thou the
care of infants? And she answered
him, saying :
7. In euch labour, alas, I ha.ve had
no experience, but I know J ehovih will
guide me aright; otherwise He had not
inspired my soul unto the work. All
wisdom is possible through J ehovih.
11. Tae
do with
inquired : What can a man 8. Tae said : Such being thy faith,
babes? How /shall I feed thou a.rt the first chosen woman in the
805
OAHSPE.
Father's new kingdom. Go, therefore,
and fulfil thy part, and may the
Father be with thee.
9. So Es went to work, accomplishing
what was required unto the infants.
10. And Tae went again into Uz
and brought hence more infants; many
more than were possible unto the care
of one woman.
11. So Tae issued a call, to wit :
12. Wanted, fifty men and women,
who are Faithists in Jehovih, and are
willing to take part in founding the
Father's kingdom on earth as it is in
heaven !
13. And there came, in answer to
Tae's call, thousands and thousands
of men and women.
14. And Tae cried out : 0 J ehovih,
what shall Thy servant do? Behold, I
asked for fifty men and women, and
here are come thousands and thou-
sands.
15. J ehovih answered Tae, saying :
Try them, My Son, and see if they be
worthy. As many as are prepared,
thou shalt accept; as many as are not
prepared, thou shalt not accept. Be-
hold, there is room for millions !
16. And Tae spake unto the multi-
tude, saying : I called for fifty men
and women, and, lo, here are thou-
sands, willing to take part in founding
the Father's kingdom on earth.
17. Now, behold, when I saw your
great number, I cried out: 0 Jehovih,
what shall Thy servant do? 1 did ask
for but fifty, and there ai;e come here
thousands and thousands.
18. And J ehovih answered, saying :
Try them, My Son; as many as are
prepared, accept; as many as are not
prepar eä, accept not. Behold, there is
room for millions.
19. Now, therefore, how say ye:
What is the founding of the Father's
kingdom? Who here knoweth the
way, and how to take part therein?
CHAPTER IIJ!.
I T came to pass that many of the
multitude answered Tae; and of all
that thus spake, the following were
the chief words, to wit :
2. Sutta said: To do what I am
willing to do, is to take part in, found-
ing the Father's kingdom; therefore,
hear me:
good profit on his capital; and the
labourer high and uniform wagea.
5. To adjust them that they can
live side by side, equally, and neither
above nor under the other.
6. That they may have extensive
domains and beautiful parks; excellent
factories; virtuous and industrious
people.
7. The part that I am capacitated to
fill in this great work, is to reveal the
key and the plans; to explain all
things to hoth, the capitalists and
lahourers.
8. II After that manner, Sutta went
on at gre&ct length, and he was followed
by several others, who had similar
plans, but each one doubted the other's
capacity, as being qualified for the
work.11 ·
9. Ahorn spake next. He said : I
have heard Sutta's project. lt is a
farce. Capital and labour cannot
harmonize.
10. And even if they could, it would
be a worldly basis. lt would not be
the Father's kingdom.
11. In His kingdom there shall be
neither buying nor selling; neither
servant nor master.
12. Now, behold, J say to you all,
men and women, as such, cannot har-
monize together. They are diverse in
all their ideas and general knowledge.
13. The only way to accomplish the
Father's kingdom is through infants,
to raise them up in the way they
should go.
14. But, even with these, failure will
result, save their pre-natal condition
is provided for.
15. Therefore, the part 1 am capaci-
tated to accomplish is, to become
father to innumerable ofispring, by
most exalted and enlightened women.
16. Also I have great knowledge of
physiology, mentology and ps:ychology,
and I would be willing to be examiner
and dictator as to prospective parents.
17. II Thus spake Ahorn at great
length; and others spake in like man-
ner, but each one preferred himself as
the prospective father of the ofispring.11
18. Next spake Thurtis. She said:
This it is to found the Father's king-
dom on earth; hear me that ye may
understand.
19. Behold, all things shall be pos-
sible through woman, especially as to
raising up a new generation on the
earth.
20. During the period of gestation,
man should not approach woman.
3. To adjust capital and labour, that
each shall contribute to the advantage
and glory of both.
4.. That the capitalist shall receive
806
21. Nay, in that period, woman
should be treated as a very Goddess.
22. Her every want and whim and
BOOK OF JEHOVIH'S KINGDOM ON EARTH. B
notion should be gratified to the vana forever, even at the feet of
utmost. Ormazd.
23. When she spake, or raised her 40. This it is to found the Father's
finger, during the gestative period, kingdom on earth. After which all
every. man and woman and child flesh shall come into life free from sin;
should run to do her service. the corruptible shall turn incor-
24. And she should be surrounded by ruptible forever.
cultured and exalted companions, and 41. Now, behold, our part in found-
charmed with sweet music and de- ing His kinvdom, is to preach unto
lightful entertainments. you Brahmas everlasting gospels.
25. Yea, as a very Goddess should 42. II Next to speak were five hundred
all men do her reverence. Buddhist priests. They said :
26. When such a woman hath a child 43. We have heard and seen also.
born, behold, there will be one child Our learning no man may gainsay. As
for the Father's kingdom. for Brahma and his second coming, for
27. Now, behold, give me the choice that matter, he never came once.
as to who shall father my children, 44. None have seen him, nor found
and such a part shall be my part, to his dwelling-place. Therefore, he is
help found the Fath.er's kingdom. but a superstition, a relic of the dark
28. After Thurtis, then spake many ages.
of the women after the same manner, 45. Hear us then, as to the founding
and each one doubted the other's of the Father's kingdom on earth :
capacity to fill the place, but recom- 46. lt is the second coming of Buddha,
mended herself.' when every knee shall bow down, and
29. Arnos spake next. He said: I own him Lord of all the world.
have heard all these beautiful systems; 47. Behold, Buddha shall come with
1 am ready for any of them. Behold, two swords and twelve spears, and he
1 am a landscape gardener. shall have ten thousand brides !
30. The part I can do is to lay out 48. When Buddha shall blow his
the grounds; for plots of flowers and breath upon the earth, the graves
grass and ornamental trees. shall be opened, and the .dead shall
31. But /e shall provide labourers come forth and speak.
for me. work not with mine own 49. And Buddha shall judge them,
hands; 1 plan and design; my capacity according to caste, so will he separate
is in my talent and in my education. them.
32. II After Arnos, then spake five 50. And ten hundred times ten thou-
hundred physicians, each one offering sand million angels, with fiery wings
himself, to be the physician for the and with tails two miles in length,
Father's kingdom. Then spake an shall overspread the earth.
equal number of lawyers in the same 51. And all flesh shall become incor-
way. ruptible; the lion shall eat straw, and
33. Next spake a thousand teachers the lamb shall rejoice in its kin with-
of the piano, each one offering to teach out fear.
the young for the Father's kingdom. 52. Next spake five hundred Kriste'-
34. And now,. with slow and solemn yan priests; they said:
asi;>ect, rose up and spake five hundred 53. What profanity we have heard !
priests of Brahma. Behold, as for Brahma and Buddha.
35. They said: We have heard; we they are but myths. lt is the second
have seen. Behold, the Father's king- coming of Kriste which is the found-
dom is none of these. ing of the Father's kingdom.
36. lt is the second coming of 54. Kriste said : Think not I came to
Brahma. He shall come in ßames of send peace on earth; I came not to
fire, from the east and west and north send peace, but a sword.•
and south. 55. It is he that shall subdue all the ,
37. By the magic touch of his wand, world, and make men bow down and
the different castes of men shall be own him Lord of all.
sorted; and the dead shall come forth 56. He shall come in a sea of fire,
from their graves, and Brahma shall with millions of archangels. And when
judge them. his servant, Gabriel, bloweth his horn
38. The sky shall be filled with holy upon the earth, the graves shfl.ll open,
angels, the spirits of the saints, with and the dead shall come forth, and
wings of fire and with tails a mile in speak to the living.
length. 57. And he shall judge them; separ-
39. And the elect of the earth shall ating them, the bad to everlasting tor-
rise in glory, and be immersed in Nir- ments, and the good, who have
807
• OAHSPE.
·worshipped mm, shall rise and inherit can explain all subjects; of diet, cloth-
everlasting bliss. ing, social intercoilrse, health, mar-
58. Now, behold, the part we can do riage and worship !
in founding the Father's kingciDm, is 71. Others cried out: I am a trance _
to preach and explain the beautiful speaker; I have angel guides two thou-
doctrinee of our blessed Lord.II sand years old !
59. When many others had thus 72. Others said : I am inspirational;
spoken, Tae said unto them : I called - the ancient prophets are my spirit
for such as had faith in J ehovih. I guides ! St. John, the revelator ! ·Con-
am not in the labour of founding a fucius ! Hosea ! King Solomon ! Daniel !
kingdom for Brahma, nor Buddha, nor 73. Tae interrupted them, saying :
Kriste, nor for an~ one but the Crea- Behold, the signs of the times show us
tor, our heavenly Father. that, as to founding the Father's king-
60. As for the graves opening, I have dom by words, sermons and lectnres,
nothing to do with that; though, for they are worthless. ·
the spirits of the dead appaaring face 74. See here ; I have gathered to-
to face with the living, behold, that gether hundreds of helpless orphan
hath been accomplished now for more babes. They care for none of the
than thirty years, to hundr eds of things that have been offered; they
thousands of good people. So with need washing and feeding, and their
that I have nothing to do either. clothes are to wash and mend.
61. But since ye have not proved the 75. Who, 80 believing in the Father
bommunion of angele during all these that he will give up seif in all respects,
years, how hope ye to labonr for the
Father's kingdom? To all such I say, and work for these little ones, having
go your ways; I have no use for you. faith that Jehovih will provide justly
62. At once, one-half of the multi- and sufliciently unto all, let him come.
tude rose up, and departed, mocking, 76. You all do know how the farmers
saying: The spirits of the dead ! We go about .gathering uf calves and colts
will have none such, but angels with and the young of al sorts; and they
wings, and with fleecy tails a mile in take them to a good place and feed
length. them; and when they are grown up,
63. Tae inquired once more: Who, they are the choice in market.
here, hath faith in Jehovih, and, if we 77. Now, behold,,there are thousands
labour together in His Name, living of fatherless and destitute children in
our all highest light, that His kingdom Uz, which, left to themselves, either
will be founded p die or grow np to be thieves, robbers
64. Hundreds and hundreds said: and murderers.
It depends on having plenty of money 78. These are cheaper than calves
and a good plantation. With money·it and young colts. And they may be
can be accomplished; without money it raised to be of more profit to them-
cannot be. selves and to the state, than ten times
65. Tae said: Yonr faith being in as many cattle.
money, I have no nse for you. I called 79. Who, then, is ready to join in
for those with faith in Jehovih ! this labour, without money and with-
Therefore, go your ways also. So, out price, devoting his life to training
many more of the multitude departed, them up to practical knowledge, not
returning to Uz also, even as had the only of books, but to use their hands
others. in trades and factories, that these
66. Tae asked again: Who here are little ones may become useful citizens,
capable and desirous gf being leaders, and a joy to themselves and a glory to
!et them speak? the Father. Let such speak.
67. More than a thousand cried ont: 80. And, now, behold, fifty' men and
Here ! That is my part. I am suited women spake, saying : Take us, in Je-
to it by nature and by experience and hovih's Name. We have neither whim
by great wisdom. nor conceit to carry out.
68. Tae said unto them: Behold the 81. We are willing and anxious to go
spirit of the age in which we live! No to this labour, and we know Jehovih
man desii;eth a leader or dictator over will provide unto us. From day to
him. For that reason, go your ways day His Light will shine upon us, and
also; I have no use for you. we shall know what to do.
69. Tae asked again : Who here have 82. Thy children shall be our chil-
made a study of this snbj ect, and are dren; thy hardships our hardships.
prepared to be lecturers and teachers We come not for rest, nor glory, nor
and advisers, !et them speak? for comforts; but we come to serve Je-
70. And, behold, another thousand hovih in whatsoever He may give us to
cried out : That is my strength. I do for His kingdom.
808
BOeK OF JEHOVIH'S KINGDOM UN EARTH. S
83. Tae eaid: In Jehovih's Name, I
accept you. Whateoever is mine sh
be yours also.II ·
84. Thus it came to pass, out of a11
the thousands and thousands who
came, only fifty were accepted.
85. And the others went their way,
mocking, saying : A most beautiful
Father's kingdom on earth !
CHAPTER IV.
BOOS: OF SHALAM.
THE Voice of J ehovih came to Tae,
saying : Take thy people and go
whither I will lead thee, and ye all
shall be blessed. Quite suflicient.. are
these, to begin the founding of„·My
kingdom on earth.
2. And Tae and his people went away
to an unoccupied country, by the
river Shalam, so-called because Tae
had said:
3. I take the babee the Uzians would
not have, and I come to a place where
the Uzians would not live, and yet I
will make it a place of peace and
plenty; therefore it shall be called
Shalam.
4. And when they had pitched their
tents and fed the children, Tae called
them together that he might speak
before them.
5. Tae said : By and through J eho-
vih are all things accomplished, either
directly or_ indirectly.
6. lf directly, by His inspiration,
then are all things well done, and in
peace and righteousness and leve and
wisdom.
7. lf indirectly, and through other
inepiration, then, indeed, is man an-
swered in disaster and unhappiness.
8. Foremost of all must it be man's
aim to receive light directly from Jeho-
vih in regard to all things.
9. To do which man must approach
his Creator in words and conduct,
doing in practice the right which he
perceiveth in judgment.
10. Now, ltherefore, from our youth
up we have repeated the prayer : Thy
kmgdom _gome on earth as it is in
heaven.
11. Yet not one of us put forth a
hand to accomplish what we prayed
for.
12. In which our prayers profaned
the Almighty.
13. For had we been true in heart,
we had taken hold in practice, accord-
ing to our best ability.
14. In not doing which we were false
before J ehovih, and He could not an-
swer 11ur pray~s in truth.
15. Moreover, we had said to one
another from our youth up : As ye
would that others should do unto you,
do ye even so unto them.
16. Nevertheless, we served oureelvee
only.
17. We vieited not the fatherleee and
motherless. 1
18. We sold not what we might, and
gave to the poor.
19. We professed faith in Jehovih,
but we manifested faith in money and
in soldiers and warfare.
20. We had said : Love the Creator
with all thy soul and heart and mind,
and thy neighbour as thyself.
21. Neither of which we fulfilled.
22. Now, therefore, we were un-
righteous toward man, and false before
Jehovih.
23. In repentance and shame have we
come out of Uz; because we could not
fulfil the commandments whilst dwell-
ing in Uz. Behold, we have come
thence, to begin a new life upon the
earth.
24. That our labour and our lives
may be given unto J ehovih, with profit
for the raising up of the race of man,
and for the glory of the Almig}ity, let
us covenant ourselves unto Him in
fulness of heart and of soul and with
all our mind, to practise all the com-
mandments in fulness. What say ye?
25. The multitude answered with one
voice: We desire to covenant with
J ehovih, that our labour and our
growth may contribute to the found-
ing of His kingdom on earth.
26. Make thou, therefore, thy cove-
nant with the Creator, and, that we
may be in unison, behold, we will
repeat with thee thy words, that
Jehovih may be glorified therein.
27. Tae said: Hear me, then, ere we
make the covenant to Jehovih: In the
heavens, the angele surround the
heavellly throne with columne of fire
/ and water; and all' the epace within
the circuit is named, the PLACB OF THB
HoLY COVEN
ANT, and it is appropriated
to worship and to sacred ritee and
ceremonies.
28. But plaoee of amusement and of
all other kind of entertainmente, not
sacred in rites and ceremonies, are
situated external to the Place of tlie
Holy Covenant.
29. Now, therefore, in remembrance
of Jehovih's heavenly kingdoms, let us
mark a circular line around about
this p\ace, and march in procession
dedicating the enclosure to the Holy
Covenant.
30. The multitude said : This is wise;
b;}". system and order and a place for
all things, harmony w~ll answer u11t11
809
II OA.HSPE.
us. Lead thou, therefore, the way,
and we will march with thee.
31. Then Tae marched, DRAWING TBE
LINE OF TBE SACRED CIRCLE, and the
multitude, two abreast, marched after
him.
32. Tae said : 1 draw the LINE OF TBE
SACRED C!RCLE unto Thee, Jehovih„ In
Thy Name 1 dedicate and enclose this,
Thy PLACE oF TBE HOLY CovENANT, to be
Thine forever !
33. The multitude responded : May
I remember Thy LINE OF TBE SACRB!l
CrncLE, J ehovih, and comport myself
within it for Thine honour and glory
forever !
34. Within this place am 1 about to
covenant myself to Thee forever, as a
labourer to fulfil Thy kingtlom on
earth for the resurrection of man.
35. Response : May 1 remember the
little ones within this SACRED CIRCLE,
whom Thou hast given into my charge,
for whose welfare, on earth and in
heaven I am about to covenant myself
unto Thee, to·make myself an example
and sacrifice before them during all
my life.
36. Together : In remembrance of
the pillars of light in heaven, that
surround the throne of Thy Son, God
of earth and heaven, we build here a
hedge and a fence, as a lasting testi·
mony that we dedicated to Thee,
J ehovih, the enclosed PLACE OF THIJ
8ACRED COVENANT.
CHAPTER V.
covenant unto Thee, to be in Thy ser·
vice during all my life.
11. Because Thou marlest it out of
Thine own material, behold, it is
Th~L ,
12. The workmanship is Thine; the
material is Thine also.
13. 1 have no claim upon it; unto
Thee, and for Thy service, do 1 resign
it forever.
14. Into my charge Thou gavest it
unto me, as the habitation of my
spirit.
15. Because it is Thy gift 1 will care
for it, and keep it clean and pure
before Thee, that it may be acceptable
to Thee, and to the presence of Thy
holy angele.
16. My spirit 1 also dedicate and
covenant unto Thee, to be in Thy
service forever.
17. My mind and soul 1 dedicate and
covenant unto Thee, to be in Thy
service henceforth forever. ·
18. My whole seif, whereof 1 am
made, soul and body, dedicate and
covenant 1 unto Thee, to be in Thy
service forever.
19. Out of Thine own self madest
Thou me, soul and body, and they are
Thine only, to be used by Thee for-
ever.
20. Appropriate Thou me, 0 Jehovih,
my corporeal body, and my spirit, my
mind, my behaviour and my t houghts,
to be of profit to Thee, for founding
Thy kingdom on earth.
21. And 1 covenant unto Thee, Jeho-
vih, 1 will search constantly irito mine
TH!! BOLY COVENANT. own every act and deed and word and
T HEN Tae and his hosts went into thought, to make myself true in the
the midst of the Place of the practice of Thy highest Light upon me.
Holy Covenant; and the hosts formed 22. That henceforth, forever, I will
in a crescent, and Tae stood betwixt search to find the highest Light, and I
the horns thereof. will practise the same toward all men,
2. And, whilst thus standing, Tae, women and children.
being moved by the Light of Jehovih 23. Unto them will I not only do as
upon him, utter ed the covenant, and I would be done by, but more; 1 will
his hosts, in concert, uttered the do for them, with all my wisdom and
words after him. strength, all my life.
S. And these words were called, TB!l 24. I covenant unto thee, J ehovih
HoLY CovENANT, even as they are to that, since all things are T/J.ine, I will
this day, to wit: not own nor possess, exclusively unto
4. Thou, 0 Jehovih ! As Thou hast myself, anything under the sun, which
declared Thyself in the Book of J eho- may be entrusted to me, which any
vih ! other person or persons may covet or
5. To Thee 1 covenant myself, to be desire, or stand in need of.
Thine forever ! And to thee only, 0 25. Neither more will 1 talk, of my-
Jehovih ! self, either in laudation of what I am,
6. And 1 abjure all Gods but Thee. nor of what 1 have done; but Thou
7. And 1 abjure all Lords but Thee. shalt judge me, and hold me account-
8. And 1 abjure all Saviours but able for shortness in word and be-
Thee. haviour, wherein, by any means, I
9. In this Thy Place of the Holy may manifest self-esteem or covetous-
Covenant, do 1 covenant myself unto ness for fame, or the applause of men,
Thee, to be only Thine, and forever ! even for any good 1 may have done
10. My corporeal body 1 dedicate and unto othera.
810
BOOK OF JEHOVIH'S KINGDOM ON EARTH. 7
26. Neither more will 1 censure nor
criticize, nor blame, any man, or
woman, nor any child over fourteen
years of age, as an individual, in all
the world, for any shortness in word or
deed they m anifest.
27. For they are Thine, Jehovih, and
not mine, to be led or driven by me.
28. To all these F aithists, my
brothers and sisters in Thy kingdom,
will I deal and think and behave, in
affiliation, as gently and truly as were
they my own blood and kin, brothers
and sisters, or father and mother.
29. And over these babes, which
Thou hast entrusted to me, will I be
as loving and true as were they mine
own blood and kin, sons and
daughters.
30. According to Thy Light, which
Thou mayest bestow upon me, will I
raise them up to know Thee, and to
be a gJory in Thy kingdom.
· 31. First of my teaching unto them
shall be, to make them know Thee,
and to remember that Thy eye is upon
them, and Thy hand above them, to
bless them according to their wisdom,
truth, love and purity.
nor king or ofüer ruler on earth; nor
will we aid nor abet war in any way
whatever.
43. Neither will we, now, nor for-
ever, eat fish nor fiesh of any creature
Thou didst create alive.
44. And we swear unto 'fhee, Jeho-
vih, in regard to these our babes,
which Thou hast given unto our keep-
ing, to found Thy kingdom on earth,
we will raise them up to abjure war,
like unto this our oath unto Thee, and
to practise not the carnivorous habit
belonging to the Uzians.
45. Neither will we use, nor permit
to be used, .in Shalam, any intoxicat-
ing drink, nor weed, nor root, nor
gUJil• nor any other drug, for the con-
tamination of human flesh by intoxi-
cation or for stimulation unnaturally.
46. Make us strong and wise, 0 Jeho-
vih, in this our covenant and oath
unto Thee, for Thine are the honour
and the glory of all things, time with-
out end. Amen.
CHAPTER VI.
32. And I will teach them the way THFJ COVENANT OF BROTHERHOOD.
of the communion of Thy angels; to NOW, when Tae and his hosts had
develop them in su'is and sar'gis. made the covenant with Jehovih,
33. Teaching them to live for the behold, the Voice descended upon Tae
spirit within, rather than for corpor. by entrancement, with the holy angels
34. Teaching them by books and in- of the God of heaven and earth, and he
struments. said :
35. Teaching them useful trades and 2. Whosoever choose Me, I choose in
occupations. return.
36. Teaching them musio and wor- 3. Whosoever serve Me, I serve in
ship. return.
37. Teaching them dancing and 4. Alike unto like, created I the
gymnastics. adaptation of angels and mortals.
38. And in all things developing in 5. As ye have drawn a corporeal cir-
them all the talents Thou hast cre- cle around My kingdom, behold, My
ated in them, that they may grow up holy angels have drawn a spiritual
to be an honour and a glory on the circle around you.
earth, and to rejoice because Thou 6. As ye have dedicated to Me, so do
hast created them alive. I dedicate to you, to serve you in
39. And I will emancipate them from holiness ai:td wisdom, by angels from
infancy at fourteen years of age; and the throne of My God.
bestow upon them the rights of man 7. As much as ye have come to raise
and woman, to their thoughts, words, up My little ones, I will come to you,
deeds, choice, and actions. through My angels, and raise you up
40. Throwing upon them, at that also. 1
age, their responsibility unto Thee, 8. As ye make My little ones wise,
for their thoughts, words, ideas and and useful, and to rejoice in their
behaviour, as fully as I claim the lives, so will I minister unto you.
same unto mine own self. 9. As ye are covenanted unto Me
41. And now, 0 Jehovih, that this against war, and to establish the prac-
Thy kingdom on earth, may be known tice of peace on earth, so will My hand
and distinguished from the habitations be over you in this My kingdom, both
of the Uzians, we make this our on earth and in heaven.
solemn oath unto thee: ltO. And as much as ye are come to
42. We will not, now, nor forever, found My kingdom on earth, even so
make war, nor engage in war, nor have I opened the kingdoms of the
take any part in war, for any God, second resurrection in heaven unto you.
nor Lord, nor Stn:iour, nor country, 11. Proclaim it in the east and weet
. 811
8 6AHSPE.
and north and south, My kingdom is majority, bnt with a small minority.
founded on earth.11 30. The highest wisdom, which is
12. The Voice departed, and then Ta~, the highest light, should guide the
in his own wisdom, faced to the east, individual and the community and the
and he said : state.
13. Hear ye, hear ye, 0 mortals and 31. Now, therefore, !et us divide our-
angels, J ehovih's kingdom is founded selves into groups of tens.
on earth ! 32. And each group shall select its
14. Then Tae faced to the west, say- wisest man, as speaker, and his title
ing : Hear ye, hear ye, 0 mortals and shall be Chief.
angele, Jehovih's kingdom is founded 33. And let the chiefs be a group
on earth ! also, and they shall select a speaker,
15. Then Tae faced to the north, and whose title shall be C'chief.
said : Hear ye, hear ye, 0 mortals and S4. Let the business within the
angele, Jehovih's kingdom is founded colony be divided into as many depart-
on earth ! ments as there are groups, one to each.
16. Next Tae faced to the south, say- 35. But let the united bu.siness of the
ing: Hear ye, hear ye, 0 mortals and colony, in its relations to the world,
angele, Jehovih's kingdom is founded and to sister colonies, be in the care
on earth ! of the C'chief and the other chiefs.
17. And Tae made the SIGN OF THE 36. Now, behold, in the kingdoms or
CIRCLE TWICE CUT, and hie hosts heaven, when a matter is announced
answered under the sign, JEHOVIB's req11iring the Holy Council's action,
DAWN. · each and all the members who desire,
18. And now the Light of Jehovih speak thereon, giving their highest
came upon Tae, and of his own accord, light.
he said: 37. And, after that, the chief giveth
19. Without a covenant of brother- his hi_
ghest light, which is the decree.
hood, behold, we are like an unor- 38. So let it be with us.
ganized school without a teacher. 39. And it shall be discovered in a
20. As satan, in the management of short time who is the highest light,
his soldiers for war purposes, hath not only of each group, but of all the
-demonstrated the advantage of power g.roups.
through discipline, let us be wise in 40. And whosoever is chief, shall be
the Father's kingdom, by discipline held responsible for the errors or
also, but in peace and righteousness. shortness of his group; and whoso-
21. Unity cannot be achieved but ever is C'chief shall be held respon-
through order and discipline and rites sible for the shortness or errors of
and ceremonies and words. the whole colony as such.
22. Power is obtained more by con- 41. Who, then, knowing that what is
certed oneness of purpose than by any- bound on earth is also bound in
thing else under the sun. heaven, is willing to bind himself unto
23. For which purposes, let us become these heavenly: laws for the sake of
oo--ganic for the founding of Jehovih's Jehovih's killgdom on earth? II
kingdom on earth. 42. When Tae asked this, the whole
24. So that, henceforth, we shall be of the multitude answered: In Jaho-
a unit before the world, guided by vih's Name, I bind myself in this also.
Jehovih to the single end of establish- 43. Tae said: Then in Jehovih's
ing a community th.at can practise His Name, repeat after me:
commandments in full. 4.4. In the Name of Jehovih, I bind
25. And though we may fail in some myself to the C'chief's decrl!e; and 1
measure, !et us remember the genera- bind myself to the chief's dec:ree also,
tion we are raising up shall have more and I bind myself in the brotherhood
advantages and practice; and their of groups.
successors shall also advance still 45. When they had thus repeated the
higher. words of brotherhood, Tae said: Let
26. Ultimately, all the world· shall the hosts form in circle, facing the
attain to peace, virtue, plenty and centre.
wisdom. 46. When they were th'1B formed,
27. Already are we covenanted to Tae went round the circle on the in-
Jive our all highest light, and to prac- eitle, going with the sun, shaking
tise it. hands with each one as he -_Passed,
28. How, then, shall we became saying: Welcome, my brother (sister),
organic, and still have no leader or in the brotherhood of Faithists; with
overseerP thee I covenant to be thine equal and
29. The highest wisdom in the state, obedient servant, to whom I wed my-
or in a community, is not with the self both in this world andin the next.
811
B 0 0 K 0 F JE H 0 V 1 H ' S K 1 N GD 0 M 0 N E ART H. 9
for the resurrection of man and the
establishing of J ehovih's kingdoJ'.!l with
mortals.
47. Then, after Tae, the next one
on his left went round the circle also,
shaking hands, and repeating the mar-
riage words of the brotherhood.
48. And so on they went, until all of
them had completed the Covenant of
the Brotherhood.
49. Tae said : I salute you all under
the sign, JEHOVIH'B NAME.
50. And they answered, by his in-
struction, in the sign, MANY IN ÜNE.
51. The Voice spake through Tae,
saying: Whoever, hereafter, shall join
My kingdom, shall repeat My Cove-
nant and the Covenant of My Brother-
hood, before the C'chief and the chiefs
and before My chosen, in the manner
ye have done before Me and My holy
angele.
CHAPTER VII.
FOUNDING THE GROUPB.
THE Light of Jehovih being upon
Tae, he said : Let the examples of
Uz be not lost upon you. But where ye
have learned, and what ye have ac-
quired, these shall ye appropriate
wisely in Shalam.
2. For which purpose it is wise that
we appoint our groups as now re-
quired, to be added unto afterward,
when more is required.
3. How say ye, then, shall we ap-
point groups this day?
4. Thereupon different persons spake,
and the sum of their wisdom was that
there should be :
5. A group of architects;
6. A group of clothiers;
7. A group of dietitians;
8. A group of engineers;
9. A group of manufacturere t
10. A group of horticulturists;
11. A group of agriaulturists;
groups, let each group now select a
chief.
20. Now many of them spake up,
saying : I neither wish fame for being
chie1', nor do 1 wish the responsibility
of the position.
21. Tae said : Suffer me, then, to
declare the Light that is upon me;
which is, tha.t ye are here to fulfil
whatsoever Jehovih may put upon
you, with all your wisdom and
strength.
22. Whether ye be made chiefs or
not made chiefs, it is Jehovih's work
ye are here tg fulfil, without any re-
gard as to your personal selves.
23. To covet chieftainship would be
selfish; to refuse chieftainship would
be selfish.
24. We cannot found the Father's
kingdom with any other members than
such as say, with all th'eir hearts, and
mind and soul: Whatsoever Thou put-
test upon me, 0 J ehovih, that will I
do with all my wisdom and strength.
25. To have faith in this way, is to
have faith with practice; such a one is
a Faithist in fact.
26. Now those who had spoken be-
fore, relented, saying: 0 Jehovih,
what have I done? Behold, I tripped
myself up even in the start. Make
this a rebuke to me, 0 Father, and
heap Thou upon me whatsoever Thou
wilt.
27. Tae said: What any one can do,
it is well done; wherein he faileth,
because of incapacity, behold, it is not
his fault, but his misfortune.
28. So it came to pass, chiefs were
selected for every group, men and
women.
29. And Tae was made C'chief. And
so Tae delivered to each of the chiefs a
synopsis of his duties.
CHAPTER VIII.
12. A group of botanists;
13. A group of nurses;
'TO the chief of architecture, Tae
said: Thy dutiee shall be one with
thy group, and what I say to thee
shall apply to them also. Thou shalt
not only build houses for Shalam, pro-
viding them comfortably with roo;ms
and with wholesome conveniences, but
thou shalt teach our adopted infants,
by models and otherwise, the art and
science of architecture.
14. A group of physicians;
15. A group of artists (sculpture,
painting and gardening);
16. A group of musicians.
17. And these were all the groups re-
quired at that time. Accordingly, Tae
proclaimed them, and called for volun-
teers for each and every group.
18. And these were filled, though,
because there were but fifty-two mem-
bers, some of them took membership
in two or three groups, so that all
were filled.
19. The Light still being upon Tae,
.he eaid: Since ye have made the
813
2. At a very early age thou shalt
explain to them, by blocks and with
tools, the science and measurements
of architecture, as to the names and
kinds thereof, to the place and use of
braces, beams and roofs•
8. Moreover, as eoon as they are
10 OAHSPE.
capable of holding a pencil, thou shalt to cover his body; and yet He created
teach them to make drafts of houses, him too tender to live without
and the parts thereof. And when they covering.
are old enough to handle tools, thou 12. In sexual relation, man and
shalt teach them to make modele of woman alone, of all the animal world,
houses, and to estimate the strength of can be taught shame.
the parts required. 13. Whatever dress attracteth the
4. To the chief of clothiers, Tae least thought to sex is the most modest
said: Thy duties shall be one with thy dress: whatever dress giveth the
group, and what I say to thee is to fullest, best development to all parts
them also. Thou shalt not only pro- of the body, with adapta,tion to com-
vide clothing for Shalam, in wisdom fort for the seasons, is the best dress.
as to comfort, pattern and beauty, but 14. Next to dress is diet. As to what
thou shalt prepare the way to teach is best to eat, for the best, healthiest
these, our adopted infants, the art and corporeal man, and the best for the
workmanship of clothing the human wisest, holiest spiritual man, is the
form in the way most conducive to best diet.
hea-lth and comfort. 15. These, with houses to live in,
5. At an early age thou shalt teach comprise t:b,e chief requirements for
them the art of sewing and cutting, the corporeal life of man.
providing for them models in human 16. And yet, to produce these, and
form, so they ni.ay learn everything prepare them unto man's service,
from a hat to a shoe, as to the material many trades and sciences have been
used, the strength required, and how developed on the earth.
to determine the same. 17. Now; behold, in this day, Jeho-
6. To the chief of dietitians, Tae vih hath •provided amply unto us. He
said : Thou and thy group shall be hath opened up unto us the nations of
one; what I say to thee is to them also. the earth, where we can go and wit-
Thou shalt determine and provide diet ness many things, especially as to the
for Shalam; as to the best herbivorous habits and dispositions of man; as to
foods, and how to prepare them, and his mode of life, in food and clothes
how to preserve such as shall be kept and houses.
over. 18. Now, behold, ye have taken a
7. In this matter thou shalt deter- great work upon yourselves; which is
mine and explain the constituent parts to raise up these little ones according
of the human body, and shalt find and to your highest light.
provide herbivorous elements adapted 19. Ye have bound yourselves to fol-
to development and purity, so that the low your own highest light. And ye
best and strongest and healthiest of know that all light is progressive. Ye
men and women may be made out of cannot sattle down, saying, I know
these, our adopted infants. Neither enough.
shalt thou follow whims or fancies; 20. But ye are bound to inyestigate.
but thou shalt support thyself by facta And how can ye do this without
eoJ.lected from the different nations of acquainting yo,urselves with what
the earth. hath been proved amongst other
8. And in the preparation of food, peoples?
thou shalt teach these infants the art 21. In some countries, infants are
and the properties and all things per- whipped for crying; in other countries
taining to food and diet. And explain they are held up by the heels; and in
to them the bloodthirsty character of some countries, infants cry not at all.
carnivorous animals, and carnivorous 22. The chief of nurses shall dis-
people, giving them facts and figures, cover these facts, and appropriate
so that in all thou teachest them they them.
shall be learned wisely, and not in 23. In like manner shall every chief
conceit merely. take his part, and develop the highest
9. Thus spake Tae to all the chiefs, proven and possible standard.
explaining to them their parts. And 24. As much as ye thus fulfil your
after he had finished with them indi- places, so shall be your aatisfaction
vidually, then he apake to them collec- and happiness afterward. As much as
tively, saying: ye negle'Ct your parts, so will ye cen-
10. The greatest of all learning is to eure and accuse yourselves afterward.
learn how to live in the best way, that 25. As Faithists ye accept all people
we may be happy here and hereafter. as angele; mortala are aimply unde-
There is no other learning so impor- livered.
tant as this. 26. All mortals are in an embryotic
11. To man, Jehovih provided state, preparing for birth (commonty
neither wool, nor hair, nor feathers called death).
SH
B 0 0 K 0 F J E H 0 V 1 H' S K 1 N GD 0 M 0 N E ART H. 11
27. Heaven is now, and is near, even
within all who will accept it.
28. At an early age infants can be
taught that to serve Jehovih bringeth
happiness; to serve mortal inspira-
tions and surroundings bringeth un-
happiness.
29. Therefore, though ye teach our
infants about diet and architecture
and clothing and all other things, ye
will still be but little improvement on
Uz, save ye teach them that the chief
aim of life should 'be to develop the
spiritual man that is within.
SO. By this system of education in
Shalam, there shall be two branches,
one relating to eorporeal things and
one to spiritual things.
CHAPTER IX.
be thus put to work in gratill.cation
of their own desires to do somethlng;
and their work shall be educa±ional,
corporeally and spiritually.
10. And when they are !arge enougll
to handle tools, they shall be per-
mitted to work at trades, or in art;
and full and sufficient explanations
shall be given to all their questiODB.
11. And this shall come to pass iu
Sha1am; without tiresome study and
without tiresome labour, these infants,
at fourteen years, shall be wiser and
better learned than Uzians at twent,.
12. For they shall not be limited to
one trade each, or one oecupation
each; but, to a great extent, all of
them shall know all trades and oecu-
pations.
13. For botany, they sha.11 have a
garden; and for astronomy, an obser-
vatory; for chemistry, a laboratory;
TAE said: Behold, the Uzians have for clothing, a factory; for hor.ticul-
schools, and they teach their ture and agriculture, they shall have
young by and in books. But when orehards, fi.elds, and gardens.
their youth are thus educated, as to 14. Such, then, shall be the method
their brains, their hands are useless of t114ching our infants.
for providing food and clothes and 15. Now, as to Jehovih and His erea-
habitations. tions, in magnitude and _perfection,
2. Education, in regard to corpo- they shall be ever kept before the
real things, must embrace the mani- child's.mind, to exalt its gratitude and
pulation and handling of corporeal adorahon, and to make it rejoice in
things for useful purposes. And fore- its own life.
most of all problems is : How to pro- 16. II For there is not, in all the
vide the necessities of li.fe with one's philosophies in all the world, where-
own hands, that he may not be with to re.strain the private life and
rendered a. dependent on others. habits from secret vice, save through
3. This shall be one of the first prob- belief in Jehovih's eye being ever upon
lems ye shall make our infants us.11
understand. 17. Nevertheless, a child that is
4. Young children not only ask raised up without learning angel com-
questions, but they desire illustra- munion, is but half raised.
tions, with the privilege of trying to 18. f3y the aotual presence of angels,
do something themselves. and li>y children seeing t.hem and con-
5. Their questions must be answered versing with them, the proximity of
by their nurses and their teachers. heaven to earth becometh firmly estab-
6. lt is not sufficient unto Jehovih'.s lished in the child's mind, and it be-
requirements of you that ye put off holdeth the fitness of one world to the
His children with evasive answers, or other.
with incomprehensible explanations. 19. For which education the infants
7. Education must be accomJ;>anied shall, at an early age, be made familiar
with practice. As, for example, ye with the unseen world, by training in
show the child certain seeds, explain- the crescent.
ing what will grow therefrom; ye 20. And their teachers shall try
shall plant and illustrate. And when them to discover su'is and sar'gis in
the vine hath come up out of the them; and, finding these talents, shall
ground, ye shall not only illustrate its cultivate them in righteousness and
corporeality, but shall display the life wisdom for the glory of the Father.
therein as a manifestation of Jehovih'a 21. And it shall come to pass that
Presence. many of these infants shall not only
8. To simply teach the child the see without their corporeal eyes, and
botany, without reference to the s~irit- hear without their corporeal ears, but
uality that underlieth all living thmgs, they will attain to adeptism.
would have little effect in turning the 22. And the angels of heaven shall
child's ehou~hts to its own life and descend amongst ns, appearing so as to
growth in spirit. be seen, and talking with us BQ as to
9. At an early age these infants 1hall be heard,
815
l2 OAHSPE.
23. And because of such exceeding
great light amongst us, no one shall
practise deception; for the minds and
souls of all shall become as an open
book.
24. These are the promises J ehoyih
hath given us; by the signs of the
times th~y are proven probable.
Through faith in Him we shall make
these things true.
25. In faith He will bless you all.
CHAPTER X.
Now. whilst the organization of
Shalam had been going on, Tae
and his hosts had interspersed the
same in labouring; some in building
houses, some in digging and planting,
and others in clearing the ground from
stones and rubbish, whilst the women
were busy with the infants.
2. And it so happened that amongst
the hosts, J ehovih had provided a
goodly number of musicians, players
and singers, who furnished spiritual
entertainment in response to the
prayers and sermons of such as suppli-
cated the Almighty.
3. In addition to these occupations,
the groups were c-ast into responsible
positions for the future; so that the
members of all the groups found it
necessary to begin and pursue a special
line of education, themselves, so as to
become teachers.
4. Consequently each ii:roup became
as a school in its speciahty; for whoso
had taken it upon himself tci live and
practise his h1ghest light was bound
also to admit an increase of light.
5. II J ehovih hath said : Two condi-
tions have 1 placed before all men,
ascension and declension; !et no man
stand still, for so I did not create him.
6: Such as will not ascend, shall be
in declension; such as desire ·not de-
clension, !et them not stand still.
7. And 1 have given to My Gode and
Lords of heaven, and to wise men on
earth, knowledge to provide unto the
multitude something to do constantly,
that satan (mischief) may not enter in
amongst them to their injury.11
8. Tae said: Now is kosmon; men
and women know of their own know-
ledge a way to provide unto self-
development in wisdom, virtue, truth
and affiliation.11
purification shall not come by baptism
with either water or fire. But each
one shall turn his thoughts inward, to
himself, becoming a constant magis-
trate, sitting in judgment upon him-
self as to hie thoughts, works and
behaviour.
11. To perfect himself in his part, in
the family of My kingdom, is My new
commandment unto My chosen.
12. F or no man perfecteth himself
unto full requitement whilst he lea.veth
undone that which he might have
done.
13. llAfter a while, Tae and his hc.sts
divided and apportioned the hours of
the day; so many to labour, so many
to rest, so many to study, thus to one
thing and another, that the groups
might be orderly. Nevertheless, entire
freedom was given to all the members
to come and go, to labour or rest, as
they might elect.
14. Now, it so happened that more
than half of the people were celibates,
and the;v reasoned, and said, inquir-
ing : Is it not better that the teachers
and nurses be celibates? And this
question extended throughout the
colony, so it became necessary to
determine which should be. And
though the question was not weighty
of itself, yet, in order to provide an
understanding for similar questions,
the chiefs of the nuri;es and the chiefs
of the teachers appealed to Tae, who
was C'chief.
15. And the Light of Jehovih came
upon Tae, and he said unto them: Did
either one shirk from ser vice it would
be plain what should be judged for
righteousness' sake. But because ye
are ambitious to do good work, which
is tedious, with many trials, ye all
deserve great honour.
16. Because ye are ambitious to serve
the Father, by serving these little
ones. your aspirations are noble. Be-
cause ye are willing to yield to one
another any preference, ye are an
example of holiness.
17. The question ye have asked,
which is simply: Who can be the
highest best teacher of an orphan
child, a celibate who has never raised
a child, or a married person who hath
raised a child? is not a question,
therefore, of self-interest or. self-
gratification, but one of knowledge.
18. lf 1 decide this matter, behold,
it would be simply one man's decision.
Why should I make myself responsible
in a matter that can be determined by
tbemselves.
19. Take ye, therefore, sufficient time
to iuquire as to the facts that have
kosmon, been demonstrated. Go, find of mar-
816
9. And it was so; the hosts of Shalam
had been chosen and provided by
Jehovih as an example of self-purifiers
and self-instructors for founding His
kingdom on earth.
10. Jehovih hath said: In
BOOK OF JEH'"OVIH'S KINGDOM ON EARTH. 13
ried people who have r aised up
children öf their own in tbe right
way, and number their proportion to
those who have r aised up their children
in the wroug way.11
20. The cbiefs took t.be matter in
hand, and t hey not only examinecl those
in Rhalam, but hundreds of families of
Uzians, and again they came before
Tae, to r eport.
21. And this was the sum of their
report, namely : Every one accuseth
all others that no married people have
r aised up their children in the right
way, and, yet, each one accrediteth
himself as having raised his own in
nearly the right way.
22. Tae asked : But how found ye the
children tbey had raised?
23. They answered : They were all
r aised in the wrang way. '.rhough
they were good enough in their own
parents' eyes, yet, to others, they were
far short of the mark of either wis-
dom or righteousness.
24. Tae said : Why, then, since those
who have r aised children have been
failures, ye shall surely not choose
them. The celibatea have made no
failures, for they have not tried.
25. Let this, then, be our rule and
guide : Since every mortal life should
be made ripe with experieuce in all
things, and since celibates have no
children of their own, and since these
children are orphans and castaways,
let it be testimony that J ehovih hath
thus provided the celiba tes as substi-
rutes for natural par ents.
26. So let the nurses and teachers,
in their youngest infancy, be celi-
bates.11
27. And this was carried out in
practice.
CHAPTER XI.
J EHOVIH prospered Shalam in
every way, more than had been
possible to any other people in all the
world.
2. Whilst the nurses and teachers
were providing for the infants, the
rest of the people were providing
habitations, factories and educational
workshops, and also tilling the ground
and ornamenting it with fields, gardens
and orchards, and with walks and
terraces.
ancients built their tem ploo so durable
that succeeding generations forgot the
art. of building. Better is it for man's
talent to remain, than for stones and
pillars of iron.
5. For which reason, in kosmon,
thou shalt not build imperishably in
corporeal things; but rather leave the
way open for eucceeding generatione
to builcl also.
6. The temple of Jehovih, which was
devoted to public worship on every
seventh day of the week, was provided
with fountains in the north-east and
south-west, and with the four lighte
of the square, and with the four dark
corners of evil and temptation, and
with a throne of Light in the east,
with time-bells, a gau and sacred
wheel. The ceiling represented the
stars and planets, interblended with
plateaux of the heavenly kingdoms.
The east was adorned with the rising
sun, the south with the sun at noon,
and the west with the setting sun.
The north was adorned with the pole-
star and aurora borealis. The belt of
the zodiac, coloured in cream-yellow,
crossed over the ceiliug and faded
down the east and west walls. On the
south wall was the coil and travel of
the great serpent (solar phalanx),
from the time of the Are of Bon (of
Moses, Capilya and Chine) down to
the Are of Kosmon, in the etherean
h eavens. F lags of golden colours were
provided for the four lights, and were
mounted on silver-coloured staffs in-
clining toward the altar of the
Covenant; and this was in the place
Tae stood, betwixt the crescent horns,
when they had, on the first day, made
the covenant. And in the place of the
crescent, where the fifty-one stood,
was laid a stone crescent, provided
with seats and gate-ways for s.ucces-
sive affiliat ions to Jehovih's kingdom.
The outside of the temple was of wood,
and was surrounded by posts made of
native trees, surmounted with a roof
of cement.
7. When the temple was completed,
Tae said: Who but Gods could have
made anything so beautiful with such
cheap material ! And if it perish in
two generations, two things man shall
gain; the third genera tion can build
another; and, moreover, we shall not
have left a temple on earth that will
call us back from the higher h eavens
for more than two generations of
time, to look after mortals who might
applaud us.
8. In regard to worship in the
temple, Jehovih had said :
3. In regard to the houses, the
temple of Jehovih, the temple of
Apollo and the gymnasium were the
most important, and, yet, none of
these were like unto the buildings of
the ancients. 9. As, in the olden times, I provided
the a preacher to stand at the altar in the
4. II Jehovih had e&id: Behold,
817 2D
OAHSPE.
east, and speak unto the multitude,
behold, in kosmon, the multitude
shall render an account before My
altar of their fulfüment of My com-
mandments, and My C'chief shall re-
spond in My Name.
10. II And such, indeed, it was; instead
of a preacher denouncing people for
their sins, it was a place where the
people returned thanks and praises to
Jehovih, with rejoicing, in anthems
and songs of praise, with pleadings
in Jehovih's Name for the Uzians to
learn the lessons of the'new kingdom.
11. And it came to pass that Uzians
did come, and listen, and look on, and
examine, saying and inquiring :
12. Why was not this tried before?
A people without a leader !
13. And whilst they pondered, they
looked upon the meadows and lawns,
the orchards and hot-houses and the
rich-growing fields, saying : Is not this
the garden of Paradise? II ,
14. The temple of Apollo was de-
voted to music, dancing, calisthenics,
initiative processions, rites and cere-
monies of amusement. The interior
was finished illustrative of proportions
and figures of symmetry and beauty.
The decorations illustrated attitudes,
posings and groupings. On the east
summit was a figurative illustration of
the God Apollo with hie heavenly
hosts, descending to earth looking at
a group of Druks with long arms, who
were squatting on their haunches.
Apollo was illustrating, on a well-
formed model, to his angele, how the
Druks of earth were to be changed
into shapeliness and beauty.
15. In its external structure, the
temple of Apollo illustrated a com,
bination of one thousand designs of
architecture, arches, curves, columns,
pillars and so on. And yet all of this
was made of the forest trees of Shalam
and without cost.
16. Next to these was the gymna-
sium, which contained also two swim-
ming baths and one hundred single
,bath-rooms.
17. Here were all kinds of places for
developing muscular action, with
swinge, ropes to walk, places for leap-
ing, places for tumbling and climbing.
This was under the charge of tlie
group of physicians. The temple of
Apollo was under the charge of the
group of musiciana. The temple of
.Jehovih was under the charge of the
C'chief and his group of chiefs.
18. Besides these, were the house of
Architecture, the house of Mechanics,
the house of Horticulture, which
adjoined the hot-houees on the north
818
and west. Here were grown all kinde
of fruit and herbe for food, and many
beautiful flowers, rich-growing all the
year round.
19. Then the Agricultural house;
then the factories, for hats, clothing,
shoes, cutlery, and, in fact, all con·
ceivable places required by man.
20. And not the least interesting of
all was the house of the Nurseries.
21. Here were the heart and kerne!
of the whole colony, the orphans and
castaways gathered up from amongst
the Uzians.
22. Now, from the first of the in-
habitation of Shalam, the Voice had
constantly urged Tae and Es to make
continual additions of infants to the
colony.
23, The Voice had said: Give thy
people plenty to do. Keep the nurses
busy; give them little to mourn for
coming out of Egypt; keep them at
work; keep them in the ritea and
ceremoniea.
24. Then Tae said to Es : Take thou
one of the women with thee, and go
back to Uz; gather in more infants.
25. And that ye may be known and
respected by the Uziana as to your
occupation, go in plain black dress,
without oddity, and I will give to
each of you a wooden triangle, which
shall be suspended on your bosoms py
a cord over the neck; for this is the
symbol of earth, sky and spirit, the
three entities which constitute the
universe, being emblematical of Jeho-
vih.
26. So Es took Hamarias, a young
woman of Thessagowan, and went back
to Uz, and in the cities gathered up
infant waifs and brought them to
Shalam.
27. And thus, every year, they
brought from twenty to fifty aaditional
infants, and adopted them in the
nurseries.
28. So that in not mauy years there
were more than a thousand orphans
in the colony.
29. lt so happened, in the second
year of Shalam, that a disease came
amongst the cows, and the physicians
forbade the babes being fed on their
milk.
30. So, for some days, they were in
straits as to how to support the in-
fants till other milk could be supplied.
31. And one Abbayith, an elderly
woman, said unto them : Why worry
yourselves? Behold, the corn is in
ear. Go, gather it, and press out the
milk and cook it, and give to the
babes; for this also is good milk.
32. So they gathered the corn and
B O O K O F J EH 0 V 1 H ' S K I N G D 0 M 0 N E ART B. 15
scraped it and pressed out the milk
which, on being boiled a little, was
found to be excellent food for infants.
33. Thus was discovered artificial
milk, even as it is bottled and sold to
this day. And the chemists also made
water extracts from slippery elm bark,
and from ßax seed, combined with rice
milk, and this also made an excellent
liquid food for infants.
34. J ehovih had said : Whether ßesh
or milk or cheese that man useth for
food, behold, in the herbs ti-nd plants
and trees I created, I gave the same
things. Let man discover them, and
understand the fruit of My inventions.
CHAPTER XII.
E S, the chief nurse, had said : I
must teil you of the wonderful
Light of Jehovih, that always cometh
to us in time of emergency. Even at
the moment despair is about to reach
us, lo, His Light provideth unto us.
2. I had undertaken to nurse, with
bottles, e,
ver so many babes, more
than was possible for one woman to
attend, taking one at a time on my
lap, but I could not get round in time.
So, also, I had had observation that
babes should be held in somebody's
arms, and that when they cried they
ehould be taken up, held upright, and
diverted by walking with them or by
tossing them.
3. To do these things for many
babes was not possible for one nurse ;
so, after I had prayed for strength
and light as to what was best to be
done, the Voice came to me, plainly,
as if I had read it in a book, saying :
4. My Daughter , why thwartest thou
the way of My creations? Had I de-
signed My little ones to be upright, I
should have provided a way for them.
5. Thou shalt permit them to lie
down, and to roll about. Neither shalt
thou encumber them with pillows and
cushions. Permit them to exercise
themselves by crawling in their own
way.
6. And when the /roper timQ
cometh for them to stan upright, and
to jump, behold, I will be with them.
amuse themselves with their h&n.ds
and toes and whatever they got hold
of.
8. From this little light, of applying
the law of development unto babes, I
applied myself to make them under-
stand that they should divert them-
selves, without depending upon their
nurses. For many of the orphans we
had received were little tyrants, hav-
ing been spoiled by former nurses,
and they screamed constantly, to m111ke
someone carry them about and divert
them.
9. Now, therefore, 1 perceived that
J ehovih required more of me than
merely to feed and clean these little
ones; the minds of the spoiled ones
had to be remodelled; they should be
made to comprehend that no one was
slave unto them; and, moreover, that
they themselves should cultivate
patience, gentleness and love, as better
attributes than fretfulnese and
authority.
10. For, let no one be surprised, even
babes can be spoiled to think them-
selves an authority, with power to
command obedience from adults. And
they discover, at an early age, ilhat
to give vent to peevishness and passion
bringeth the nurse to do them service.
11. And I saw, too, that some, even
such as could merely hold up their
heads, became jealous to be the first
fed, or the first washed, and answered
my negligence with fearful screams.
12. Now, it came to pass, when I
ceased taking them up to feed them,
and did away with the pillow-props,
and laid them all down alike, and
gave them food at the same time, I
had not only provided unto them
better corporeal dllvelopment, but
better spiritual development.
13. Such as had been peevish and
jealous ceased their former habits,
and began to look with respect to the
other babes rolling beside them.
14. Not many months passed by till
they began to be interested in one
another, examining their feet and
hands, and evidently trying to com-
prehend who they were, and whence
they came. And they also saw in one
another a representation of them-
selves, appreciating a fellowship that
was surpassingly beautiful.
CHAPTER XIII.
7. Es said: Now, thereupon, I began
a new system. 1 not only searched to
know myself, but to develop these
little ones. And when I took away
the pillows and cushions, giving them
double blankets to lie on, and oppor- TAE said: Never grew such straight
tunity to exercise by rolling about, and handsome children as those
behold, they grew in strength daily, of Shalam.
and not only soon ceased to cry, but 2. And it was so. And, moreover,
began to sing eongs and to laugh and they were of all shades of colour, and
-819
18 OAHSPE.
of all nations and peoples on the
earth.
3. And they were timed and dis-
ciplined from the very first; a time to
be fed, a time for bathing, a time for
dressing and a time for sleeping.
4. Beside these times, the nurses
provided music twice a day for them,
and at regnlar hours. And p:1any of
the bab ~s began to sing and to beat
time to the music, even before they
could stand upright.
5. And when the children were able
to walk, the nurses provided them,
in processions, with music to their
steps; and a time was also set apart
for these.
6. Soon after this they were given
simple calisthenics; and, in time after
this, calisthenics proper, for the de-
velopment of the arms, limbs and
person.
7. Thus were they trained to keep
time with music; to carry themselves
erect; to control the motions of their
feet, limbs, arme and hands, and, also,
made to develop the ftill use of their
joints. And they were taught the
names of the bones, joints and
muscles, by repeating the words in
time to the music, being in songs and
eemi-songs.
8. Great were the delight and in-
terest these little ones took in these
exercises; and it came to pass, that
even whilst they were little more than
babes, they had mastered the names
and uses of the bones and muscles of
t he body.
9. And they were timed and limited
in exercise, adapted to the most deli-
cate and slender, and to the most
robust; and every one learned simply
by diversion, and not by talk or
labour.
10. After this they were tau~ht
marching, slow and fast, even runmng
to time in music; and, after this,
simple tournaments.
11. Simple tournaments embraced
games of hunting and chasing; some
of them taking the part of foxes or
wolves, and others, the part of
hunters. Yet, in all these games, the
teachers and musicians took part,
directing and cautioning, guarding
and supervising the games, teaching
the little ones the oneness ot teachers
and pupils. Teaching the stronger
children to be observant and gentle
toward the weaker ones, illustrating to
them how Jehovih had made them all
demonstrated love and respect toward
one another, as if they had indeed
been begotten by the angels of heaven.
They were like little saints, and more
of a lesson to their teachers of the
glorious creation of J ehovih, than the
teachers were to them of the wisdom
of man.II
13. Amongst their first lessone of
labour were those in the gardens,
teaching them how to plant; teaching
them the namee of seeds, flowers,
plants, trees and all growing things;
explaining to them how Jehovih, by
His Ever Presence, giveth life and
growth and form unto all thin"s.
14. And they listened, heeded, and,
with delight sought their turne and
privileges to do some little~ work.
15. Now the beginning of labour with
them was also the beginning of times
and seasons for recreation, which, for
the first six years, occupied the prin-
cipal part of the day. And yet, every
day they took lessons of a few minutes
in painting or drawing, or demon-
strating with blocke, cords, squares,
and angles.
16. At six years of age they were
entered ae apprentices to labour,
devoting half an hour daily to knit-
ting, or sewing, or working with toole,
giving them an opportun ity of mani-
festing their best adaptation.
17. At six years of age they were
also taught for half an hour one even·
ing in the week to sit in the sacred
circle for angel communion, that they
might become conversant with angels,
eeeing them, and hearing them dis-
course on heavenly thinge. Here they
were taught praying in concert, and
the order of praise to Jehovih and His
creations.
18. And the angels appeared amongst
them, oft carrying them in their arms,
and otherwise demonstrating the tan-
gibility of the presence of the spirits
of the dead.
19. And the children were deli5hted,
often ejaculating thanks unto Jehovih
and praise for His everlsting heavens.
20. Now was also the time that many
Of them began to manifest su'is, being
capable of seeing and hearing angele
whilst in normal condition, and also
of seeing and hearing corporeal things
miles away, and without their cor-
poreal eyes and ears.
CHAPTER XIV.
as brothers and sisters. THIS, then, is after the manner of
12. II Es said: Never was 1 so re- their angel communion, to wit:
•,,, proved for the shortness of my fOrmer The sacred circles were composed of
· ufe, ancl for my belief in the depravity sixty-six children, seven teachers and
of man, as now, when these little ones one chieftainess.
82Q
BOOK OF JEHOVIH'S KINGDOM ON E.ARTH. 17,
2. The chieftainess sat in the midst,
and was represeni.ative of the Light,
repeating from the words of J ehovih
or His Embassadors. And the re-
sponses were by the children, and by
the angels, and m any of them were
after this manner, to wit:
3. Chieftainess : I am the Light and
the Life; My creations are for the
j_
oy and glory of My Sone and
Daughters.
4. Response: All Light is J ehovih;
!et His Sons and Daughters rejoice in
Hirn.
18. Shout unto Him in love; be out-
spoken to the Aimighty; He answereth
in fair fields and plenteous harvests.
He filleth the air with sweet perfumes;
the colour of the fields and tlle forests
are records of His skill.11
19. Now during the chanting, the
angels came and 3oined audibly in the
r esponses, and often took on the sem-
blance of corporeal for ms and walked
about within and without the saored
circle, and, at times, spake a few words
of greeting and joy in Jehovih's Name.
CHAPTER XV.
5. Proclaim Hirn with great joy;
shout with glee in the house of the
A.lmighty !
6. C.: To show them the glory of AT six years of age the children
My love, and the wide dominions I were entered in the school of
created for their ever lasting inherit- oratory, and also given the signs and
ance, I send My holy angels from My graces of unspoken words by means of
kingdoms on high. gestures. And now they began to take
7. R. : Who shall fathom the inven- part in theatricals and operatic per-
tions of J ehovih, and the foundation formances.
of His love ! He provided His holy 2. For such purposes these two
angels to come down from the skies, houses were provided with angel
the light and joy of His everlasting chambers adjoining the stages, and
heavens. during the performances the angels
8. H e fashioned a way for the soul came in sar'gis, also taking parts in
of man to live forever; from the the operas. ascending and descending
resting-place of the spirits of the dead, before the audiences, singing and
He brmgeth them in the Voice of His speaking audibly, so all could hear
love. them.
9. C. : I have swallowed up death in 3. Many of the plays and operas
victory; the pain of t he parting; be- were composed and prepar ed by the
twixt the living and the dead, I nave angels, who also gave directions how
bridged over witb Mine own hand for to put the pieces on the stage. And
the joy of My chosen. in some of the pieces there were, of
10. R. : Greater than ' life, greater the children and angele combined,
than death, is the Almighty; wit h His more than three hundred performers
own hand He handleth tbem as toys; on the stage at one time.
by His breath bloweth He away all 4. Instead of the crude and loud-
terrors. sounding horns and hideous instru-
11. He provided us a life on the ments used by the Uzians for their
eartb to learn earthly things; death operas, the opera here was provided
was His invention to adapt us to His with an organ of full power, and with
imperishable heavens. instruments of ·delicacy and sweetness,
12. Glory be to J ehovih on high; so that the most refined ear should not
glory for His beloved angele who come be shocked or pained by any crude or
to bless us. disgusting noise, so common 1in the
13. Sing unto the Almighty, 0 ye Uzian orchestras.
little ones; His eye guardetb over you; 5. Now, as to the plays, whether in
His hand reacheth to the uttermost the opera or in the theatre, they
places. varied on different nights, as to being
14. C.: The earth is My paradise; adapted to young children, or to older
the songs of My beloved reach up to ones, or to adults. But, for the most
My realms in the skies. - part, the plays and operas pertained
15. R.: Proclaim the Creator to the to illustrations embracing a life on
ends of the world; to His children He earth and an entrance into the lower
gave the earth as a paradise. heavens, showing also the part in real
16. Sing a song of gladness unto the life which angels of purity take in
Almighty; with the harp and the guarding and advising mortals, by
horn, and with the voices of His· be- mspirabon, to ri~hteousness, and also
loved, mete out praise forever ! showing how druias inspire mortals to
17. Let us praise Hirn; !et us adore sensual things and to wickedness.
Hirn; the Almighty hath given us 6. So that the plays required the
loves on the earth and loves in heaven. presence of angels, to illustrate their
~l
18 OUISPE.
parts in the aflairs of mortals; and
every play was made a lesson and
sermon on life, so simple a child could
nnderstand them and apply the in-
structions to its own soul.
7. Herein, then, was the difterence
betwixt the plays and operas in
Shalam, as compared with plays and
operas with .the Uzians: With the
latter, they apply to the lives and
adventures of mortals, and to hie-
tories of mortal aftairs and occur-
rences wrapt np in inexplicable causes;
but the plays and operas with the
Faithists in Shalam, illustrated the
same things by showing the causes
that govern and control mortals by
spirit-presence.
8. So that, were it neceSBary to
exhibit a drunkard on the stage, it
was also shown how the drunkard was
snrrounded by dark spirits who in-
spired him to his course; and also was
exhibited the struggle of hie guardian
angele to save him, showing thus how
the choice lay with himself as to whom
he would serve, satan or J ehovih.
9. In the simple plays, where the
children took their parts at first, they
were taught, without books, by repeat-
ing after their teachers.
10. And here was a new school, not
known amongst the Uzians; which was
to learn by hearing words spoken, to
repeat them. First they practised
with half a dozen words, then with a
dozen words, then with two dozen, then
four dozen, and so on. And it came
to pass, in a little while, many of the
children could repeat whole chapters,
by simply hearing the words spoken
once.
11. Tae said : Here, first of all, be~an
to manifest that clearness of mmd
resulting from an herbivorous diet
which was and is wholly .unknown
amongst the U zians.
12. Tae said : And J ehovih further
blessed our children in su'is, so that
many of them who had not yet b~
taught to read, could lay a hand on a
p:rinted pag.e, ami repeat it word for
ward.
13. Tae said : And their little pla.y-
:nm.tes, hearing them, could repeat the
l!Qme things. And some of them would
hold a sealed letter in their hands,
and read it word by word; so that
dissemblance and secrecy were beCOil'.le
as a farce before Jehovih's children.
CHAPTER XVI.
eigb:t yeans, two houre. at twelve, and
three hours at fo:urteen.
2. Nevertheless, these thou shalt
temper acordiug to thefr strength and
inclination, making labour itself a
delightful pastime.11
3. And it was so; all avocations
were as a. change from one amusement
to another. And so great were their
capacities to comprehend all thinga,
that, at the age of fourteen, they were
master of all trades and occupations.
4. And, of the first thousand children
that reached fourteen years, scaljce
one could be found but was master of
horticulture, agriculture, engin.eering,
surveying, landscape gardening, archi-
tecture and general mechanics. They
knew how to make shoes, hats, cloth-
ing (also spinning and weaving cloth),
the mathematics of musical instru-
ments; and they were musicia.ne as
well.
5. Tae said : Though they lacked the
age and strength of full-grown men
and women, yet they had attained to
practical knowledge the like of which
had never been known to any adulte
in all the world. Scarcely anything
was known that they could not make,
or describe how it should be made.
6. II And yet, in all things, scarcely
any part had been taught them by
means of books, but by practical
observation and by illustrations and
actual measurements.
7. Jehovih hath said: By My spirit
I move infants to ask questions;
answer ye them, and, behold, they
shall become as Gods. For this is a
door I opened with M;ine own hand;
whoso answereth them not, shutteth
the door against knowledge, and ill-
useth My loviis.
8. Tae said: With all that our chil-
dren knew, behold, we still rebuked
ourselves because we had not answered
half the questions they had asked us.11
9. Now, from twelve to fourteen,
they were initiated into the religious
rites and ceremonies of the ancients,
after the manner as. set forth in the
Book of Saphah, with explanations of
eigne, s;ymbols, emblems, and the
saored implements; with the ranke of
Gode and Lords and Saviours and
archangels; with the divisions of the
higher and lower heavens; with the
first, second, and third resurrections
in atmos]lherea, ae set forth in the
Book of Ben; and with the cosmogony
of the corporeal worlds; the position
and travel of the solar phalanx; with
llJEHOVIH had eaid : Let the oÄder actuB1l observations of the stars,
of the labour of My little onee- be planete, and satellites, with their
inoreasive; one half an hour a day at times and seasons, as set forth in the
six years of age, one hour a day at Book of Cosmogony and Propheoy.
82:1
BOOK OF JEHOVIH'S KINGDOM ON EARTH. t9
10. And they could peint out the
constellations; describe the distances
and revolutions of planets; explain the
zodiac, the polar lights, and the use of
telescopes and the spectrum. And,
yet, not one of them had been tired or
wearied in learning all these things.
CHAPTER XVII.
were the members of Shalam; and
beyond them were the visiting Uzians.
10. On the north and south were
stationed the musicians, and betwixt
them and the crescent horns, on the
exterior, were the marshals of Shalam.
11. Tae represented the Voice of
J ehovih, and Es the voice of the young
brides and bridegrooms who were to
speak in concert with her. After
prayer and suitable music.
THE Voioe came to Tae, saying: 12. Tae said: In the Name of Jeho-
The fourteenth year is My year. vih, and by His Light upon me, I de-
Behold, the harvest of My labourers, clare the place of the Holy Covenant
who came first out of Uz, is ripe unto open to the voice of mortals. Who
deliverance. here knoweth the times of Jehovih,
2. In the heavens of My Gods, I and the day and year in the place of
bequeath a time to labour unto them His kingdom?
also; and when their angel hosts are 13. Es and the brides and bride-
prepared for a new resurrection to a grooms of liberty: In Jehovih's Name,
higher h·eaven, I come and deliver greeting from the west. Behold, this
them. is the brides' and bridegrooms' day of
3. For fourteen years thou and thine li'lierty. We stand before thee and
hosts have laboured with My infants; thy hosts to answer our love for the
those which 1 gave into your keeping benefits ye have bestowed upon us in
have prospered, and shall be now the Father's kingdom. We bring to
emancipated, and ye also shall be ye sprigs of acacia as memorials of
emancipated from all further respon- the everlasting life ye have shown unto
sibility over them, save such as ye us.
may' take upon yourselves. 14.. Tae said : The east answereth in
4. Call them together, old and young, love and sorrow, but receiveth your
and, with suitable rites and cere- memorials with great joy. ,
monies, fulfil My commandments unto 15. Es: Before the Almighty, all
them, and bequeath unto My children things move onward; to His decrees
the titles, brides and bridegrooms of we bow in reverence.
liberty. 16. Tae: Are ye not satisfied?
5. So Tae appointed a day of eman- 17'. Es: We are more than satisfied
cipation, and had it proclaimed before with the love and blessings we have
all the people of the colony. received.
6. And on the day named, there 18. We were fatherless and mother-
came unto the temple of Jehovih one less, and ye gathered us up and fed us
thousand of the infants who had
attained to fourteen years of age. And and clothed us. But, greater than all,
they were clothed in white, with un- ye have taught us to love and honour
h d b d · 1 h you in our Father's Name.
covered ea s, oys an gir 8• eac 19. Tae: We went forth in duty, but
carrying a sprig of acacia, and they Jehovih hath answered us w1'th love.
marched in from the west, two and
two, but separated one to either side, We. found you helpless, with none to
forming a crescent, with the horns to care for you, or to save you from de-
the east. struction. We brought you hither
7. The fifty-two founders sat in the and provided unto ;ou without' price
east, and were thus betwixt the horns and without hope o reward.
of the crescent, and they were clothed 20. Es : But ye have bound us; how
in black, with white aprons, but with can we ever repay? None ca.n know the
Zarathustrian hats• on the men's, and fulness of our gratitude.
with sky-crescents on the women's 21. Tae: We have watched you since
heads. before ye stood upright; your every
8. Back of the founders, were little step hath been both a respon-
stationed another thousand ohildren sibility and a joy unto us. 0, why
of younger years, a~d they bore the will you leave us? Who knoweth the
fiower-wreaths intended for the brides love of the aged for the young, whom
and bridegrooms of liberty. they have watched from day to da.y ?
9. But within the mids.t of the 22. Es: We will not leave you; but,
crescent stood Es, faoing the east. behold, we are no longer babes, we are
Still outside of the cr011Q0lli;, were strong and le.a.rned.
11tatiened the next younger class of a 23. As ye sa.ved us, so let us_go forth
thousand infants. And beyond these in our might to save others. Who ca.n
823
20 OAHSPE.
lteach the aged that those they raised outselves from au ein and un-
up are not always babes? 0, give us righteousness, in thoughts, words, and
our liberty ! Behold, we are clothed deeds, and to serve Thee· with all our
as brides and bridegrooms ! wisdom and strength, by doing good
24. Tae: And turn you loose without unto others as long as we may live.
any one over you to guard and bless 41. Tae, of himself : Then, in J eho-
you? vih's Name, and by His authority
25. Es: Jehovih will guard and bless vested in me, 1 bequeath you liberty
the righteous who serve Hirn. We for ever. Jehovih be with you all.
are His ! Amen. -
26. Tae: Who is Jehovih? and 42. In Jehovih'sName we releaseour
where? saviours from all responsibility for us
27. Es: He is the Life and the forevermore. Jehovih be with you all.
Knowledge, Who is everywhere present, Amen!
the All Person, Who created us alive, 43. Tae: Draw unto Me, and receive
Who, by giving, created all things. from My hand, saith Jehovih. Whoso
He is our shield. · covenanteth unto Me, I covenant unto
28. Tae : Your faith being in J ehovih, him.
it is well; but ye have bound us with 44. Whoso re11istereth unto Me, shall
your love. What is bound on earth be registered m My heavenly king-
shall remain bound in heaven. Though doms. Upon the entrance in heaven
we give you the form of liberty, yet of My chosen, behold, My holy angele
our hearts will ever go out in love are there to receive them. ·
to you. 45. The Brides and Bridegrooms :
29. Though we emancipate you here We covenant unto Thee, Jehovih, tobe
on earth, remember, we are growing Thine forever.
old. Ere long we shall ' join our 46. Register us in Thy everlasting
fathers in heaven. Whither we go we kingdoms; make us acceptable asso-
shall again prepare unto you. ciates for Thy holy ones in heaven.
30. And when ye come again to us 47. Teach Thou us, 0 Jehovih, to
for a season, behold, we shall again look down into our thoughts, words,
go on for a time and a season. and behaviour, every day and hour,
31. Es: 0 Jehovih, preserve Thou ue with swift remembrance to do all the
ever pure and wise, that Thy hosts good we can unto others that we may
may continue this love in our travel be an honour and glory in Thy works.
iu Thy everlasting kingdoms ! 48. Tae: Come unto Me, My beloved;
32. Tae: Such is ever the beginning receive from My altar the token of
of a kingdom of the Father: Where a liberty in My Name 1
few gather together in Hie Name, ful- 49. II The marshals then brought the
fi!.line the commandments, there is the pointe of the crescent together in
starting-place unto them. front of Tao, leaving a space between.
33. Pity those that live and die in The guards then brought the children
this world, not having found and Jived with wreaths forward, filed to pass bs-
within a kingdom of the Father. twixt Tae and Es, who had advanced
34. Es : To remain true to J ehovih's to the apex of the horns. The saviours
heaven, what a glory, time without (the founders) drew up in single file,
end ! Make us strong and wise, 0 facing the west.
Father, to bring them into Thy king- 50. A.nd, now, at a signal from the
dom on earth. Help us to 'make them chief marshal, the brides and bride-
comprehend. grooms turned in at the crescent, two
35. Tae, in the Voice: With Jiberty and two, and, as they did so, they gave
1 give also responsibility. the acacia to the founders, whilst the
S6. Es, in the Voice : Thy chosen wreaths were placed on their heads by
comprehend; as '.I'hou givest them Tae and Es, the bearers passing the
· liberty, even so do they emancipate other way. And, as they did so, Tae
those who saved them. said :
37. Tae: To the helpless 1 provide 51. Receive thou this token of liberty
saviours; to the wise and strong 1 say: in the Name of the Almighty. lt was
Save yourselves. grown by Hirn, gathered by His loves,
38. Es: We want none but Thee, Je- and is bestowed by thy benefactor as a
hovih, to save us. We bind ourselves crown of Jehovih's kingdom on earth.
uuto Thee from this time forth, for· 52. Es, in response : More precious
ev~r ! is this than the crown of any king or
S9. Tae: Whosoever striveth to 11ave queen on earth. In Jehovih's praise
himself, shall not fail before Me. I receive it; it is an emblem of a new
40. We covenant unto Thee, Jehovih, beginnil:tg in my life, a wreath of
to strivi /hereafter, forever, to save liberty. Ths saviours (founders) said:
8~
BOOK OF JEHOVIH'S KINGDOM ON EARTH. 21
This acacia sha.H be my register before
the Almighty of ·your love.11
53. After this the musicians sang and
chanted, whilst the audience r esumed
seats. ·
54. Ta.e said : A new life is before
you. Heretofore you have been dir ected
a.nd criticized, and told what to do and
what not to do. Hereafter ye shall not
be thus disciplined, but shall discipline
yourselves.
55. As much as ye are thus bestowed
by us, so shall ye bestow one another.
And, henceforth, ye shall not criticize
or direct or dictate to one another.
As much as ye ar e free from us, ye
a.re free from one another.
56. Heretofore ye reproved one
another for various trifiing faults;
hereafter ye shall not reprove one
a.nother, nor reprove any person above
fourteen years of age; rememher con-
stantly t hat ye are not keepers or
supervisors over your equals or your
elders.
57. And for such faults or shortness
ye ma.y perceive in others, save
infants, turn away, behold them not,
nor mention them. Such matters are
betwixt J ehovih and the doers.
58. And, now, behold, it is proper
for you to go into Uz, and see them,
and observe how they live, both in
splendour and in misery.
59. For which purpose ye shall be
provided in groups of dozens or more,
and accompanied to the cities of Uz to
sojourn there for a season.
60. And if it so happen that ye desire
to remain in Uz, then be it so; ye shall
remain.
61. And if ye desire to retur11 hither,
then shall ye return.
62. But ye shall not return here as
befor·e, as helpless babes, but as workers.
63. And if ye efoct to remain with
us, then shall ye make the covenant
of brother hood with us, being one
with us in all things, and this place,
or its sister colonies, shall be your
home as 'long as ye may desire.
<:HAPTER XVIII.
Our rooms are small; the air of the
city smells foul.
4. Tell us what is the meaning of so
many people strolling about in idle-
ness P Why do they sit r eading papers?
Which are the masters, and which the
servants? How do they know? Why
do the servants not be masters, and
have the others serve them? What
beautifuL waggons ! What beautiful
mirrors ! What do the w:omen have
their clothes stuffed for? What are
those be~ls ringing for? Are they
in the temples of Jehovih? Take u~
thither ! What causeth these dis-
agreeable smells? See that old woman
with a half naked habe, and leading
that dirty child ! Why holdeth ~he out
her hand as we pass? Is she a servant
or a master? Why hath not some one
told the rich it is wrong to pass that
poor woman by without helping her to
a home ? Why does she not come into
our hotel, and have a room? What do
the people mean about rights and pri-
vileges? Can one person in Uz have
more rights and privileges than an-
other ? And why so?
5. What is that sour smell, down
yonder, in that cellar, where they talk
so loud? What is sour beer? See, be-
hold, a man with a bloody face !
Fighting? What with, a tiger? Are
those the fiesh-eaters? Why do they
smoke? Why hath not some one told
them they should rather seek to purify
themselves, than to do in the opposite
way? 0, here is the temple of wor-
ship, take us in !
6. Tae took them in, and they heard
the sermon, and afterward, they said :
7. 0 the mystery of mysteries !
How can these things be? The chief
preached most excellently; he know-
eth all the doct r ines for right-doing;
but why is it that his people heed him
not? Why doth he not gather up
little children, and raise them up to
observe the commandments? He must
be the best of men. Take us to see him.
8. Tae took them, but a servant met
them at the gate, and demanded to
know their business.
9. They answered ·: We have come to
consult about the poor. Then the
W HEN the groups were prepared gate-keeper withdrew a while, but re-
to visit Uz, Tae himself took turned, saying: The preacher is not at
charge of one dozen, going with them. home !
As the incidents of t hese visiting groups 10. From an upper window, behind
were similar, the following account of the lattices, they saw his face; not at
Tae's group sufficeth here, to wit : home !
2. Tae took them to the city of 11. They said: Can these things be?
Meig, to the most fashionable hotels, 0, take us to the poor; to the streets
and had them provided with every of misery ! Let us see them. -
luxury, so-called. 12. II Tae took them, and when they
3. Hardly had he them located, looked about, they asked : Why do the
when they came before him, saying: poor live in the dirty streets? Why
225
OAHSPE.
·do they not go away, and dwell in the
beautiful places ? Who gave these
differeu.t allotments to the rich and
poor? WWhy do the poor not clean
themseives, and clean their clothes,
a.nd clean their houses? Why do the
poor remain in the cities? And
huddle together in such little rooms?
23. Now, after the time of the visit
was completed, Tae said unto them:
What will you, remain in Uz, or
return to Shalam?
24. And they answered : 0, take us
back; give us clear air to breathe ; let
us be where we can hear and see
J ehovih !
25. But since thou and thy people
gathered us up in Uz, and bore us
hence, let us go and gather up infants
also, and take them with us. We will
raise them' up in the Light of our
Father in heaven.
26. So, in fact, did they; and they
returned to Shalam, taking with them
a great number of waifs and castawaye
and orphan babes.
CHAPTER XIX.
13. What is that !arge house? A
theological college? What is tliat
for? What is the meaning of, J;each-
ing religion? Can it be learned with
words? What is the reason tbey do
not live religion? Why hath not
some one explained to the professors
that religion is a thing of practice?
Conld not they understand? Why do
they not love their neighbours as
themselves? Dividing up what tbey
have with the poor? Why do these
children go without shoes, and so
ragged and dirty? Why do not the
professors and students in the theolo- WHEN the multitude retnrned to
gica.l college go and wash them and Shalam, the place was more
clothe them?ll than filled, and the Voice came to Tae,
14. Thus Tae took them amongst the saying :
fas-hion and splendour and amongst the 2. Thon hast now fulfilled the first
poverty and shame of Uz; showing them part of My kingdom on earth, but, be-
the banks and great merchant houses, hold, it ia yet but a small branch of
and the Beets of ships; and then to the that which will overspread this great
prisons and poor-houses, and to the land.
houses for the insane, and to the hos- 3. Moreover, let the lessons of Uz be
pitals. a profit unto thee and thy people.
15. Now, since their infancy np, 4. Because the Uzians build !arge
many of them possessed su'is, and cities, their would-be reformers are
could see the spirits_
J>f the dead, even powerless to work righteousness
a.s they saw mortais. And they in- amongst the people.
quired of Tae concerning such spirits, 5. Let not the cities of My chosen be
saying and inquiring: !arge nor more numerous than Shalam
16. Who are these restless, snllen is already. Suflicient is such a size to
spirits, strolling about the banking all that is required for the fulfilment
houses? of mortal life.
17. Tae answered them: These were 6. Therefore, thou shalt proclaim it
-bankers; these were the founders of unto My chosen, that no city shall con-
great banking houses. As they bound tain more than three thousand people.
their minds and thoughts to earthly , 7. Suflice it, then, as I have placed
gain whilst they were mortal, so drift the example of bees before thee, show-
they now, even as they bound them- ing how they swarin, and go hence and
selves on earth. They ca.nnot go hence, establish a new hive, according to
18. Again, they asked: T011 us, then, their numbers, even so shall My
what spirits are these strolling sulkily people go hence, and establish a new
in merchant houses and on the docke? place, after the manner of Shalam.
19. Tae said : These were great mer- 8. This, also, shalt thou proclaim
chants and their ship-masters; behold, unto them·; and thou shalt ask for
they ßoat also into the places they volunteers in My Name to accomplish
bound themselves. these thjngs righteously, as an example
20. Tell us, then, who are these to coming generations.11
drunken, foul-smelling spirits in the 9. So Tae called the people together,
saloons? !1-nd proclaimed Jehovih's words, add-
21. Tae said : These were tipplers, mg also :
drunkards, gormandizers; these were 10. Whoso volunteereth to go hence
their mortal resorts. They cannot go shall not find the fulness of Shala.m,
hence. but, instead, shall find discomforts and
22. Thus Tae explained the tens of hard work !
thousands of spirits that huddled 11. Beware of disappointments and
around about the different places in trials and hardships. For is it not the
the city of Meig, in the land of Uz. way with all man to desire to reap too
826
B 0 0 K 0 F J E H 0 V 1 H ' S K 1 N GD 0 M 0 N E ART H. IS
quickly the harvest, and to consider
its fulness, rather than to contemplate
the labour of tilling the ground and of
sowing?
12. l!' or the spirit of man conceiveth
the result of perfection; but the judg-
ment looketh to the labour required to
bring it about.
13. Who, then, having the joys and
fulness of Shalam, will turn away
from them in erder to build another
place, and yet, the while, not repine
for his choice?
SO. J ehovih designed not that man
should build his house exactly like his
neighbour's. The misfortune of man
is to copy after others, instead of fol-
lowing J ehovih's Light as it cometh to
himself.
31. Let not this misfortune come
unto Shalam's sister colony. Another
locality will call for other things. Be
mindful of these, and adapt yourselves
accordingly.
CHAPTER XX.
14. A colony shall stand as an indi-
vidual before J ehovih. A colony may
thwart its own righteousness by living AND there volunteered and went out
for itself only. of Shalam, two hundred adults
15. The whole world is to be and more tlian three hundred children,
redeemed. lt is not sufficient for of whom more than a hundred were
Shalam to say : Behold, I am the ful- infants.
ness of the Father's kingdom. Let 2. And they went into another part
others go and do as 1 have done ! of the country, and came to a place
16. The selfishness of a colony shall called Busiris, which was unoccupied.
be, therefore, guarded against, even as And they purchased the country
the selfishness of an individual. there, and settled, and called the
17. Discipline, as regardeth the means colony Illaem, signifying, healing
and power of a colony, shall manifest waters, for there were mineral springe
in directing to the given purpose of on the place, said to contain great
founding the Father's kingdom. virtue. in healing the sick.
18. Shalam might appropriate her S. Now, in a similar manner to
excess of production, by sen,ding into Shalam, so did Illaem, building and
Uz, and giving to the poor. improving the place. But the people of
19. Jehovih forbid that this should be lllaem had less hardship, for they drew
done. The business of Shalam is not supplies and assistl}nce from Shalam.
to distribute charity where it would 4. Nevertheless, they had also many
thwart its own purpose. hardships and trials, for several yeare.
20. Shalam shall use her excese of 5. And Jehovih prospered Illaem
means to extending the Father's king- also ; eo that it came to pass that it
dom, in building new colonies. was established in great perfection.
21. J ehovih is with us, and we ehall 6. As to Shalam, after the firet
draw Uz unto us, to make them know swarm deIJarted the inhabitants eent
Jehovih. To feed Uz in bis debauchery back to Uz, of their women, whose
is tosend him in the way of destruction. allotment it was, and collected yet
22. Guard ye, therefore, the appro- more infants, castaways and orphans,
priations of Shalam to such as labour and brought them to Shalam, and'
for Jehovih's kingdom. As we have raised them in the same way.
drawn a few away from Uz, let us 7. From this time onward, every
prepare to draw more. year, a goodly number reached the age
23. The way is open for any to go of fourteen, and they were also
hence to found a new colony. Neither liberated from infancy, and admitted as
shall it be a branch of Shalam, nor a brothers and sisters. And nearly every
dependent. But it shall be an inde- year a swarm departed out of Shalam.
pendent sister colony. 8. In addition to the ib.fants
24. Neither shall it copy after admitted into Shalam, there were also
Shalam, saying : Shalam shall be our admitted many adults. . But these
example. were examined after the same manner
25. This would be following an as were those at the first founding of
earthly light. Shalam.
26. Neither shall its people copy after 9. And none were accepted save those
rae, saying: Tae did so and so, let us also. who were Faithists in the All Person,
27. For thi& would be following a Jehovih, and who were willing to work.
lower light. 10. Bnt there came many of the poor
28. But it shall follow the light of of Uz, seeking membership for
Jehovih as it cometh unto you who charity's sake.
found it. 11. Bnt none of them wer„ admitted.
29. Sav·e Jehovih found it, they shall llJehovih bad eaid: The labourers, in
fail who attempt it. · establishing My kingdom, shall not do
827
M OAHSPE.
for charity's sake. Their labour shall
be to provide a way to prevent poverty
not to alleviate it. Behold. 1 will
have a new race of people in the world,
and they shall not waste their sub-
stance on those that deny Me.11
12. But the poor were fed and sent
on their way.
13. Now it happened that many lazy
people from Uz, having heard of the
beauty and peace in Shalam, sought
also to become members, being willing
to make any covenant and to swear
any oath, for sake of living in
idleness.
14. But the Light of Jehovih had
also made this matter clear; so that
they were suffered to remain a while in
Shalam at work, and to attend the
schools of discipline, that they might
be judged; and if found worthy they
were admitted, but if unworthy they
were rejected.
15. But it came to pass, that many
who came with no thought of self-
resurrection, but cama for a home,
to be cared for by others, were
ent~rely changed in their habits in a
few months, being converted in truth
from worthlessness to . induatry and
self-improvement.
16. And many of these became zealous
in purification and in good worka, even
above the average.
17. But nearly all who applied for
admittanca were poor, or misfortunate,
or discouraged with life, and with the
ways of the world in particular.
18. Neither came many who were
rich; hence 'the saying, the difliculty
for a .rieb man to enter the kingdom
of heaven.
19. For, having corporeal comforts,
they took little concern as to the
spirit, and especially as to afliliation.
all manner of living things whicb I
created.
6. How think ye they hear Y.e,
learning to do My will? Go I to·them
with lips and tongue, or with a
trumpet ?
7. 1 am Spirit; I am the Soul of
thinga. By way of the soul is My
Voice unto every living creature that
I created.
8. But man locketh np hie soul, and
will not hear Me.
9. He heedeth that which cometh
upon his corporeal senses. And this
darkness groweth upon him, generation
after generation.
10. Then he crieth out : Where is
J ehovih? Who hath heard Him? Per-
haps the ancients ; but none in this day.
11. J ehovih saith : I am as one on
the top of a mountain, calling to all
people to come up to Me. But they
hearken to darkness at the foot of the
mountain, calling them down in
corpor.
12. Now, behold, whatsoever thou
haarest or seest or readest, or any in-
dulgence that raiseth thee upward, the
same is My Voice unto thee.
13. But whatsoever thou haarest or
seest or readest that casteth thee down-
ward, is the voice of darkness.
14. Whoso studieth to know the
right, shall hear Me; whoso striveth
to be all truth, to himself and to
others, already heareth My Voice.
15. Whoso indulgeth in anger, or
vengeance, or in wrong-doing, casteth
a veil up betwixt Me and himself; he
shutteth out My Voice.
16. lt is a talent to hear Me; 1 be-
stowed it upon all the living; it is
seated in the aoul.
17. By cultivation it groweth; yea,
it becometh mighty above all other
talents.
18. By ita culture man attaineth- ta
all possibilil:ies, for so I created him.
CHAPTER XXI. 19. When My Voice is weak, becausl
OP THE vorcE OF JEHOVID. of thf! darkness of man, he ca.lleth Me
conscience, or setteth Me as1de as a
THIS is the sermon of the Voice, as faint impression.
delivered in Shalam to such as 20. But with culture, behold, My
were admitted on trial, to wit: Voice cometh to man with words and
2. My Voice is with all men, saith with power.
Jehovih. 21. And he knoweth Me, and is
3. Whoso is admonished against mighty in good works and wisdom.
wrong-doing hath heard Me. By that 22. And he becometh a proof before
shall he know My Presence. the world that My Voice is with him.
4. The man of Uz crieth out in 23. Jehovih saith: Whoso hath not
mockery: Who hath heard J ehovih ? heard Me is in darkness indeed. He
Do the Faithists say they have heard hath not yet turned his thoughts in:
the Creator's Voice ? How can empty ward to purify himself e.nd seek
space apeak? wisdom.
5. But 1 am suflicient unto all My 24. Whoso hath heard Me knoweth
creationa. Tlie ant heareth Me, -and it, and all the world cannot convince
the bee, the bird and the spider and him to the contrary.
828
BOOK OF JEHOVIH ' S KINGDOM ON EARTH. 25
CHAPTER XXII. the streng ones to carry heavier bur-
dens than the weak; He designed the
wise ones to teach the less wise. Why,
then, shall we give any preference to
one over another ? They are not ours,
but Jehovih's. Suflicient is it for us
to do our own parts, with all our
wisdom and strength.
THIS was commanded unto the
inhabitants of Shalam, to wit:
2. Ye shall not persuade any adult to
come into the Father's kingrlom.
S. But ye shall s,ay unto whoso
cometh your way : Come and see us,
and j udge thou in thine own way what
is best for thee and for the world.
CHAPTER XXIII.
4. Others shall come to Shalam, in-
quiring for curiosity's sake, and for
the sake·of r elating mischievous false- IN course of time, the first heir s of
hoods founded on a grain of truth. Shalam came to maturity and to
5. Therefore, be ye guarded, saying marriageable ages. And since they had
to such : The time of word-doctrines is been guarded as to diet, and as to
at an end; examine thou, and j udire as controlling their passions, they were
thou wilt. un like Uziana in their general char-
6. Others will seek to convict you of acteristics.
self-righteousness. Therefore, if they 2. Because they had never been
inquire a.fter this manner, to wit : Say known to say: This is mine, and tha.t
ye the F aithists a.re immaculate? or, is thine, they were without sellishness
sa.y ye all others are wrong? then shall or selfish desires ; looking upon all
ye answer them, sayin~ : things as J ehovih's, and on themselves
7. Nothing mortal 1s immaculate; as labourers to render good unto others.
and, as to others, we are not their S. They said : We were created in
judges. Go thou to J ehovih, and in- order to help rescue the world from
quire of Him. Suflicient unto us is it dar kness, and to rejoice in our own
to do all the good we can, having faith lives because of such good as we can
in J ehovih. do unto others.
8. Some will seek to trap you on the 4. II Behold, we were orphans and
subj ect of marriage, inquiring after castaways ; J ehovih wedded us to all
this manner, to wit: the world.11
9. Say ye celibacy is higher than 5. Having, therefore, wisdom and
marriage ? or, is marriage the higherP purity within themselves, and, withal,
What say ye of marriage and of having sufficient association to choose
divorceP from, they did choose and wed for
10. To these ye shall answer after love's sake.
this manner: We are no man's keeper; 6. Nor did any worldly ambition
neither say we whether celibacy or control their choice, or inßuence them
marriage is the higher. We give in hope of any gain as to their wedded
liberty unto all to serve Jehovih on partners.
that matter, in their own way. One 7. And if came to pass that the off-
marriage only do we per mit to any spring begotten of these were indeed a
man or woman. And though one or new race in the world, as to wisdom,
the other die, yet the survivor cannot leve, purity and spirituality, and new
marry again. And as to such as are aliio as to beauty and shapeliness, the
married, they can, at the option of like gf which had never been before in
either one, retur n to celibacy, by being all tla.~ world.
publicly proclaimed in the temple of 8. And they were by birth so de-
Jehovih. veloped in su'is, that, when they were
11. And if they inquire of you as to grown a little, education came to them
leader ship, saying: without books. To see and to hear,
12. Who is the leader? Who is the either corporeally or spiritually, was
highest ? Who is the head? Ye shall all they required in order to accom-
answer them, saying: J ehovih. We plish wisely all t hings required unto
have no man-leader; no man who is mortals.
higher than another. We are brothers 9. And, with them, the heavens were
and sisters. as an open book ; the libraries of the
13. They will press you, inqniring: heavens as the sound of voices full of
Some men can do more work; some wisdom.
men are stronger; some men are wiser; 10. And the angele of ancient and
now, therefore, how do ye grade them modern times came, and stood b_y
that excellence may be known and them, and walked with them, reveal-
respected? ing the past and the future.
14. To these ye shall rep_]y, saying : 11. And, now the fame of Shalam
All men are Jehovih's. He designed and her people was spread abroad,
829
26 OAHSPE.
and, lo and behold, colonies were
springing up in the east, west, north
and south.
12. Hundreds of forest places and
unoccupied lands were purchased and
put under cultivation.
13. The wi~st and best pe.ople began
to depart out of the cities of Uz. Many
of the Uzians, lawyers, prrachers and
priests and physicians, gave up their
callings. And they went forth, say-
ing: Alas, what good have I produced
in the world? 0 Jehovih, teach Thon
me the way to work in one of Thy
kingdoms.
14. And some of the rich gathered
up their means, calli.ng : Come, 0 all
ye poor and helpless ! Behold, J have
purchased land; ecme hither and build
a colony unw Jehovih.
15. And judges and governors gave
up their callini;s also, and went and
joined the Fa1thists, founding and
practising Jehovih's kingdom on earth.
16. And kings and queens and em-
perors deserted their thrones, and
went and dwelt with the poo1:.
17. So colonies of Faithists in Jeho-
vih spread in every direction, becom-
ing the chief foundation of the state
and of the world.
18. And, yet, none of these colonies
were bound by written laws, nor had
any of them leaders or masters, nor
any government. save the Light of
Jehovih.
19. Nor was one colony bonnd by the
customs and commands of another
colony; but all of them lived by the
higbest Light that came to them.
20. Nor owned any man, woman or
chiltl. anything more than the clothes
e or. Sf6 ~ore; but all things were
J ehov1h s, m care of the keeping of
the colony.
21. Nor was there buying or selling
between the colonies; but they ex-
changed with one another according to
production, and without any regard to
value.
22. And whosoever came and joined
a colony, bringing gold or silver or
valuable goods of any kind, donated
them to Jehovih, and not to the
colony, to be distributed according to
the light thereof for the Father's
kingdoms.
23. Neither labonred any one for the
colony, but for J ehovih; nor did any
colony hire any man nor woman nor
child to work for them.
24. Such, then, was Shalam and her
example before the world, of the
Father's kingdom on earth. ·
lliND OF BOOK OF SHALAM.
8:10
CHAPTER XXIV.
THESE are the records of th.e
C'chiefs of the Father's kingdems.
2. Jehovih separated the people, the
Uzians on one hand, and the Faithists
on the other.
8. .A.nd He said unto the Uzians:
Because I called and ye came not;
4. Because ye said : Thy kingdom
come on earth as it is in heaven, and
ye put not forth a hand in My behalf;
5. Because ye saw the multitude go-
ing after intoxicating drink and smoke
and opium;
6. Because ye rose not up, saying :
Stay thy hand, satan !
7. But shirked, granting licences
unto these sins;
8. And ye have become a polluted
people;
9. Given to drunkenness and to smok-
ing and to all manner of dissipation;
10. Each one casting the blame on
others, and hiding himself in self-
righteousness;
11. Thus opening the doors of your
houses of debauchery as a temptation
to the young :
12. Behold, I am risen in judgment
against you.
13. My holy angele I shall withdraw
from your cities;
14. And from your places of worship;
15. And from your government, and
your law-makers and rulers;
16. For they have profaned Me.
17. Making laws and granting
licences to carry on evils, knowingly
and wilfully, for policy's sake;
18. Ho ing for personal favour and
gain.
19. For they knew that what was ·not
good for one person, was not good for
a. nation;
20. And that whatever si.n indulged
in, would, sooner or later, bring its
own punishment.
21. And they said: We derive a large
revenue from the duties and licences
for these iniquities !
22. Thus hoping to justify them-
selves by compounding themselves.
23. And I said unto them: A revenue
thus received shall be expended in
prisons and alms-houses, and shall not
be sufficient.
24. Because ye granted licences, and
polluted the people, behold, the pollu-
tion shall more than balanee the re-
venues.
25. T)l.e criminals and paupers shall
be a greater burden than though ye
received no revenue.
26. Behold, I showed unto you that,
as an individual could not sin agai~l
Me without, soon or late, becominl!'
B 0 0 K 0 F J E H 0 V l H ' S K l N GD 0 M 0 N E ART H. 27
answerable unto Me, I showed ye also 48. And they sought not to make
that the same responsibility and result laws for righteous government unto
would befall a nation or a people in the whole, but sought to favour certain
like manner.. cliques of iniquities, and to make laws
' 27. For which reasons, and because to protect them in evil manufactures,
of your evasions of My command:q:ients, and for traflic in tobacco i>lld opium
I called unto My God 11.nd Lords and and alcohol.
My holy angels, saying: Waste not 49. And no man more sought to !;Je
;i::our time and labour more with the a governor or law-maker for the good
Uzians; of the people, or to serve Me;
28. Nor answer ye their prayers when 50. But he sought oflice for profit's
they call on My Name; sake and vainglory.
29. And though their chief rulers 51. Now, therefore, My holy angels
and law-makers be in the throes of went away from them, and no more
death, and they call, saying : 0 J eho- answered their pra.yers.
vih, heal Thou our Chief Magistrate! 52. And the righteousness of the
30. Yet ye shall not go unto them, first days departed away from them.
nor do them service more. 53. And they became a nation of
31. For they have become a conceited money-g_etters and servants of mam-
12eople, saying: There is no God, and mon.
Jehovih is void as the wind. 54. And I blessed not their mar-
32. Behold, ye shall let them go their riages nor their households.
way; their cities shall become full of 55. And their sons and daughters re-
crime, for angels of darkness shall spected not their fathers and mothers;
oome amongst them, and no city for, as the fathers and mothers re-
shall be safe from theft, murder and spected not Me, so came disrespect and
arson. misery upon them.
33. And vagabonds shall travel in 56. And their sons and daughters
the country places, l;itealing and rob- became profiigates and idlers, growing
bing and murdering. up for no good under the sun, depend-
34. And their great men shall take ing on their wits to work out a life of
bribes, and their judges shall connive sin and luxury.
with sin; and the innocent shall be 57. And whoso married, peace came
confined in mad-houses. not to them; but contention and jeal-
35. And justice shall depart away ousy and bitterness of heart.
from them. 58. And their offspring feil in the
36. 'l'he employee shall pilfer and grades, becoming outcasts and paupers
steal from his employer; and the and criminals.
employer $hall hire others to look after 59. And husbands and wives cried
those in his employ. out for divorcement on all hands.
37. But all things shall fail them. 60. And the law-makers granted
38. For I will m ake them under- them and favoured them; but, lo and
stand I am the First Principle in all behold, the evil multiplied on the
things;· earth.
39. And that I am Justice; 61. In pity I cried out unto them,
40. And that I am Pur ity; saying: Ye may make laws forever, but
41. And that whoso raiseth a band My kingdom cometh not by the road
against justice, purity, virtue, wisdom of man's Jaws. Except ye turn about,
and truth, also raiseth his hand against and begin anew, there is no help for
Me. you under the sun.
42. I made the way of life like going 62. But they would not hea r Me.
up a mountain; whoso turneth aside 63. Then I sent My angels unto
or goeth downward shall ultimately them, teaching them the same things
repent of his course, and he shall that were taught of old, amongst which
retrace his steps. were: As ye bind yourselves on earth,
43. To a nation and a people, and to even so' shall ye be bound in heaven;
a government of a people, I am the as ye live on earth, serving seif only,
same. even so, in a selfish· heaven shall ye
44. Righteousness shall be first and enter My es worlds. •
foremost of all things. 64. But they denied My a:b.gels, and
45. Their governors and law-makers abused My seers and prophets.
shall be made to know this. 65. In their own self-esteem set they
46. When they were a monarchy, I themselves up to judge Me, saying:
held the king responsible. There is no All Person; there is nothing
47. But when I gave unto the multi- save certain natural and divine laws,
tude to govern themselves, behold, I and they are dumb, like the wind;
ll'ave also responsibility unto them. they see not, nor do they hear.
~31
28 OAHSPE.
66. Then I called out over the earth,
saying : The time of My kingdom ie
come. Now ie the time of My reign
amongst mortals.
67. And those that had faith came;
and, behold, they' have built unto Me.
68. I have a new people on the earth.
69. Again I called to My God and to
his angel hoste, saying: Behold, I have
separated the wheat from the chaff;
I have divided the sheep from the
goats.
70. Go ye unto those that serve Me
in the practice of My kingdom, for
they shall become the chief people in
all the world.
71. They shall rejoice and prosper in
all things·; they ehall sing songs of
gladness.
72. Their .sons and daughtere shall
be an honour unto them and a glory
in My household.
73. Because they eeek to serve Me by
practising good worke with all their
wisdom and etrength.
CHAPTER XXV.
THIS rule I made in all My works,
saith Jehovih: When I separate
the people, the good go away out from
amol1gst the evil.
2. Even as I drew the Israelites out
of Egypt.
3. And whoso go out proeper in My
hand; I make them an everlasting
people.
4. But those that remain go down
to destruction; and they become un-
known upon the earth.
5. Their great men are forgotten,
and their wisest men lose caste in the
histories of a thoueand years.
6. Behold, these things I had made
known unto the generations of the
earth.
7. Now, when I separated the Faith-
ists and the Uzians, in the kosmon
era, I sent angele, warning them. 1
said unto them :
8. Flatter not yourselves that man is
all wisdom; I say unto you, I am with
the righteous; might shall not triumph
through wrong-domg. Behold, a judg-
ment shall come upon this people.
9. When I begin to call them, My
chosen shall come and found My king-
d<>m ; and they shall come faster and
faster every year.
10. And the Uzians shall fall into
iniquity, more and more every year.
11. And, now, behold what hath been !
12. The prince of devile came upon
the Uzians, saying :
peace on earth; I come not to send
peace, but a sword.
U. I come to set man at variance
againet his father, and a daughter
against her mother.11
15. Now, therefore, when My angele
went in behalf of My kingdom, be-
hold, the prince· of devils did invade
the places of the ungodly.
16. And whoso r eceived My angele,
and practised righteousneee, were
fallen upon by the emissaries of the
prince of devils, and unmercifully
treated with cursee and tortures.
17. But I called the righteous hence,
and they built unto Me My kingdom.
18. And I said unto the Uzians: Let
this be a testimony unto yon of the
power of the Almighty;
19. Ye go about building ehipe of
war, and harbours for defence, with
torpedoes, and with all manner of
wicked inventione.
20. But 1 say unto you, this nation,
this government and this people shall
not be attacked in the places ye build.
21. lt is within.
22. For I will draw away the right-
eous, and none but rogues shall accept
your great offices.
23. And this matter shall grow upon
yon in the way of evil, declining in
virtue more and more every year.
24. Look, therefore, at your grade;
judge ye the words of the Almighty.
25. My hands fashioned the signs of
the times.
26. As the hirer this day hireth one
man to watch another, even so shall
it come unto you in the great officee
of your government.
27. By force and by might, le shall
hope to overcome the prince o devils,
but ye shall fail.
28. And in proportion as ye go down
in corruption, even so shall the
Faithists go away into My kingdome.
CHAPTER XXVI.
THE C'chiefs said: And Jehovih
prospered the New Kingdoms, as
they were called in mockery, for they
were not kingdoms, but the opposite.
2. J ehovih had said : A repub!ic can-
not follow the highest Light; it follow-
eth the majority. And a majority is,
and was, and ever shall be, the lasser
light.
3. Therefore a republic is not the
all highest government; anrl since only
the All Highest can triumph in the
end, behold, and interpret ye what
shall <iome to pass.
13. Think not that I come to send
832
4. The C'chiefs said : But many
BOOK OF JEHOV I H'S KINGDOM ON EARTH. 29
understood not. Nevertheless, the
Faithists had litt}e in common with
the Uzians.
5. The Faithists established a reci-
procity between different colonies.
6. For some were suited to agricul-
ture and some to manufactures.
7. And they exchanged produce, so
there was neither buying nor selling
between them.
8. And it came to pass also, that,
as some of the colonies were situated
to the south, wher·e it was warm, and
some to the north, where it was cold,
so the people went and sojourned in
any place suited unto them, continuing
their membership wherever they went.
9. N.ow, thus it did come to pass in
J ehovih's kingdom on earth, man was
without a government, such as man's
government.
10. And this was the next higher con-
dition that came up after republics.
11. 'fhe angele of J ehovih, perceiv-
ing this was coming to pass, said unto
the Faithists :
12. Bother not your heads much about
passing new laws for the 'Uzians; nei-
ther take ye any part in the govern-
ment, whether it doth this or that .
13. For many men shall rise up, say-
ing: If the government would make a
law of peace; or, if the government
would prohibit the traffic and thfl
manufacture of this curse or that
curse,-
14. But we say unto you, all these
things shall fail. Trust ye not in the
ungodly to do a godlike matter.
15. The societies shall fail ; the Peace
Society shall become a farce; the ·
Prohibitory Society shall be lost sight
of.
16. Even the churches that profess
peace and temperance will not embrace
peace and temperance. They will
fraternize with liquor-traffickers and
with colonels and generals of war, for
sake of policy.
17. The boast of the Uzians shall be:
This is a home for all peoples; but,
nevertheless, even in the midst of their
boastings they shall make prohibitory
laws to the contrary.
18. For they are fallen under the
lower light ; none can turn them about
the other way.
19. Under the name of libert:y, they
shall claim the right to practise un-
godliness.
20. But ye shall come out from
amongst them, and be as a separate
people in the world.
21. Thus it came to pass; the people
were admonished by God and his
angele, and by J ehovih speaking in the
souls of mortals.
22. And those that were of the Spirit
believed; but those that were of the
flesh disbelieved.
23. Wider al;ld wider apart, these two
peoJ?les separated. And the believers,
havmg faith in J ehovih, practised
righteousness, rising higher and hiirher
in wisdom and purity. But the d1sbe-
lievers went-down in darkness; were
scattered and lost from off the face of
the earth.
24. Thus Jehovih's kingdom swal-
lowed up all things in victory; his
dominion was over all, and all peoplE
dwelt in peace and liberty.
END OF BOOK OF J EBOVIB'S KINGDOM ON EARTB.
1 We understand by this term, and also by
the book itself, that, what is set forth as being
in the past, has net yet occurred. In such respect
it is a picture of 'the future, as will be demon-
stn.ted in actual practice. The name, „ Tae,"
is of course only figurative, and is not a man of
tbat name, as stated, but a representative, a
figurehead. See Book of Ben, p. 541.
2 World's people. See Book of Ben, p, 541.
3 Es, in this case, must mean ••spiritual-
minded." See Book of Ben, p. 541.
4 Tbc names, Abern and Tburtis, are correctly
applied from Hebrew. The extent of this family
of philosophers, Aborn and Thurtis, is surpris-
ing. They have figured in all ages of the world's
history, even before the time of Sodom and
Gomorrah. And amongst the so-called advanced
thinkers of to-day there are thousands of them.
They come under all sorts of names, from free-
love to libertinism.
5 Matthew x, v. 34.
833
6 A Zarathustrian hat is a cardinal's hat ; and
originally, as seen in the history of Zarathustra,
is red, like blood. lt is without a rim, and is
emblematical of the destruction of Faithists in
a lions' den. lt is also used in the rites of
E methachavah. See Book of Saphab.
BOOK OF DISCIPLINE.
CHAPTER I.
GOD REVEALllTH WHO Hll 18.
T HIS is the word from the organic
heaven:
2. Hear tha words of thy God, 0
man-l am thy brother, risen from
mortality to a holy place in heaven;
profit thou in my wisdom, and be ad-
monished by my love.
3. For as l am thy eitler brother, so
shall )t be with thee, to rise also in
time to come, and look back to mortals
and call them to the exalted heavens
of the Almighty.
4. To J ehovih all adoration and glory,
forever, Amen!
5. By and through Hirn is all life
and motion, and power, things seen
and unseen.
6. Nor is there an angel in heaven so
high, or sufiiciently wise to comprehend
Jehovih in B:is entirety, nor to see
Him as thou seest thy fellow man..
7. F or He is within all; beyond and
of angels, and the chief over them is
God, an angel also.
18. Howbeit the kingdom of thy God
embraceth all the heavens of the
earth. So is it also with all corporeal
worlds and their atmospherean heavens
-a God and organic heavens belonging
to each and all of them.
19. Nor is t his all; for there is a
third resurrection, in which the angele
rise still higher in wisdom, love and
power, and are sent by their God inta
etherea, mid-way between the planets
-the highest of all heavens-over
which there are Chiefs, who are also
Gode and Goddesses of still more com-
prehensive attributes.
20. Therefore I am as any other
swrit of the dead, a one time man
upon the earth, even as thou art in
this day; but one within the organic
heavens of the earth.
over all : CHAPTER II.
8. Be~ng Ever .Present i~ all places : GOD EXPLAlNETH TRll: FIRST AN -
9. Dorng by Virtue of H is presence: D SECOND RE
10. Quickening all the living : BURll.ECTIONS, AND TBE DIFFERENCl'l IN
11. Adorable above all things : MANIFESTATIONS FROM THEM.
12. lllven as the sun is to the light of HEAR me, 0 man, antl consider the
day, so is Jehovih to the understand- weight of the arguments of thy
ing of all the living : God. Thou hast communed with the
13. Whereon to contemplate is the spirits of the dead; thy father and
road of everlasting life, rising in mother and sister and brother who are
wistlom, love and power forever. gone from mortality have spoken to
14. Hear thy, God, 0 man, and dis- thee in spirit, and thou art convinced.
tinguish then that the twain, God and 2. And thy kin and thy neighbour
J ehovih, are not the same one; nor have done so likewise ; yea, from east
rnore is thy God than what thou shalt to west, and north\ to south the com-
be in time to come. munion of angels and a multitude of
15. First, mort~lity, then death, miracles have stirred up thousands
which is the first resurrection; such and millions-to know that the souls
are the spirits of the dead-angels of the dead do live.
dwelling with mortals upon the earth, 3. Moreover thou wert t~ught in thy
where they abide, some for a few years, youth to say : 1 believe in the holy
some for a huudred and some for a communion of angels.
thousand or more years. 4. And of a truth this hath come to
16. Secontl, angel organization in pass. Antl thou rejoicest with all thy
heaven, antl their abantlonment of mor- heart and soul. Thou puttest aside
tals, which is the secontl resurrection. the ancient scriptures, saying: Why
17. As a kingtlom on earth hath a shall I read them? Do I not converse
king, antl the king is nevertheless a with heaven itself? Behold, I have
mortal, so in like manner is the seen my father and mother and
heavenly place of thy Gotl a kingdom brother and sister who ware dead;
834
BOOK OF DISCIPLINE. 2
they have' spoken to me; there is no of light and angele of darkness in
devil nor place of hell. proximity to mortals.
5. For a season thy God hath suf- 15. Thus hath it ever beea. Never·
fered this also to come to pass-that theless, in time long past, the minority
the spirits say there is no God; that who were wise and good were moved
there is no higher heaven than to by the spirit of Jehovih upon them,
dwell upon the earth, to enjoy the saymg:
things thereof; to be reincarnated, and 16. II Come ye together, 0 all ve who
to live over and over in mortality. desire to rise to a higher heaven; my
6. That . the evidence of my words heavens are for raising the soul up-
might be substantiated by thy ex- ward for ever and ever.11
perience, and thou be led to consider 17. And thy God gathered them to-
the testimonies, present and past, in gether, and said unto them:
order to comprehend the plan of Jeho- 18. Behold, this darkness is more
vih's works, and the glory and com- than we can bear; Jet us hence and
pleteness thereof. inhabit a heaven by ourselves, where
7. Consider then the result of angel there shall be no wrangling, or false-
communion as thou hast found it, and hood, or malice, or blasphemy against
bear witness that Jehovih was wise in our Creator.
providing cmnfort to both tbe dead 19. And they responded: Yea, Jet us
and the living by this proximity of hence. And we will covenant ourselves
spirit unto them, rather than a heaven unto Jehovih to return no more to
far remote. these regions, nor to mortals on earth.
8. Nevertheless, this also hath been For doth not the behaviour of mortals
proved unto thee-that there are false invite darkness rather than "light?
angels and wise angels, as weil as Do they not want us for servants-to
false seers and wise seers, and that find lost treasures or riches, or social
out of the mul titude of revelations from indulgence, or to entertain them with
them, there hath come neither har- miracles?
mony nor good works. 20. Thus it came to pass that the
9. They have been pullers down and wisest and best angele departed away
clearers away of the ancient revela- from the earth; away from mortals,
tions, d<Jctrines and religions; but they and away from the inharmonious
have built not an edifice of unity and presence of the legions of the spirits of
glory to the Almighty. the dead, and they inhabited a heav-
10. And it hath been shown thee enly region by themselves.
that not only the seer, prophet, su'is, 21. Ap.d they covenanted themselves
and miracle worker, but that all unto J ehovih not to return again
people ar e subject to the infiuence of single-handed to minister unto mor-
the spirits of the dead, even though tals; neither to return aga.in to
unconsciously to themselves. mortals save they came in phalanxes,
11. And it hath been shown tbat the and only then when duly authorized
spirits of the dead possess for a long and directed by their most Holy
period of time the same characteristics Council, and their chief, who was God.
and prejudices as when in mortality; 22. Such then was the beginning of
and since there is neither harmony the second resurrection; and the con-
nor community of life amongst mor- dition of membership requir ed the
tals, neither is there harmony nor renunciation of all associations and
community of life nor of teaching conditions below it. And the rank of
amongst the angele who manifest unto all such angels was, ANGELB OF Goo, or
them. ANGELB OF JEHOVIH, in contradistinction
12. For the angels through one pro- from tbe angele of the first resurrec-
phet teach one doctrine, and through tion, who know no organization for
another prophet another doctrine, after righteousness' sake.
the manner of the doctrines of the 23. But that mortals be not left in
prophets themselves. darkness, behold thy God and bis holy
13. Consider also the multitude of council prepar ed certain rules of
infants that die without any know- discipline and conduct and command-
ledge of either earth or heaven. And ments, whereby the angels of the second
the multitude of unlearned, and resurrection should be as a unit in
foolish, and depraved; for all of these their duties and teachings thereafter.
as weil as the wise and good enter the 24. Chief of which rules was, that
first resurrection. the angele of J ehovih should never
14. And of the wise and good, who manifest themselves as individuals
strive for continual elevation-how unto mortals, lest mortals become ser-
few compared to the whole ! Yet such vants to, and worshippers of the spiritE
is the relative proportions of angele instead of the All Highest Jehovih.
835
3 OAHSPE.
25. Second to this-that when the
angels of J{lhovih should be appointed
to mortals, it should be as guardians
over infants, to inspire them by way
of the natural consciousness within,
as to what was right and good in
reference to eternal life. And that
such guardian angels be in phalanxes
of millions and tens of millions (but
still in close membership with thy God
and His Holy Council) in order to r e-
lieve one another on guard.
26. For, by the inspirations of the
angels of thy ·God, the individual en-
tity of a mortal is directed in its nor-
mal growth; but by the angels of the
first resurrection, mortals are used
abnormally, by entrancement, by
miracles, or by sar'gis, oracles or
otherwise.
27. That the angels of God might
inspire mortals with the same iuspira-
tion, behold, he and his Holy Council
p.repared certain · instructions with
rules, words and commandmeuts
adapted to the understanding of mor-
tals for the good of their souls, pan-
dering not to their earthly desires.
Such words being designated as sacred
writings in the original, though for
the most part perverted or lost sight
of after war rl.
l\8. Chief angels over these phalanxes
bemg Lords, Marshals, Captains, and
so on, the second resurrection being
orderly, disciplined and organized in
its glorious work.
29. Thus my Lords have angels under
them who are authorized and ordained
in my name, and in the Name of J eho-
vih to abide for times and seasons with
mortals as guardians and inspirers ; to
provide dreams, thoughts and visions
in the minds of mortals, and to other-
wise labour in elevating them in
purity, love and wisdom.
30. Such then are the angels of God
and of Jehovih. And t heir teachings
are the same as my Lord's and thy
God's; nor doth one of them teach a
matter in one way, and another teach
it difierently; howbeit there are differ-
ent grades and systems adapted to the
different degrees of intelligence of the
-different peoples on earth.
CHAPTER III.
QOD ILLUBTRATETH THE DIFFERENCE OP
AIBTHOD BETWIXT THl!i FIRST AND SJ«:OND
RESURREC'f!ONS.
first resurrection, which may be likened
to a great medley, a n-0ise and eonfu-
sion of a mighty multitude, so covoo-
anted we with Jehovih to make our-
selves orderly, and a unit in growth,
manifestation, expression and future
development, that the place of the
second resu:rrection should do nothing
in common with the first.
3. F or alike and like J ehovih created
mortals and angele to attract each
other; and since the aspiration and
desire of most mortals pertain to
themselves as individuals, so the twain
bound themselves in the same pursuits
and earthly hopes.
4. For whoso on earth loved riches,
or fame, or great learning, or even
evil, such as dissipation, drunkenness,
gluttony, ~exual indulgence, or theft,
gambling or arson, doing any or all
of these things for self's sake, or for
evil, attracted angel companiona of a
like order, who, by inspiration or
otherwise, led him on to achieve bis
heart's desire.
5. And it came to pass when such
mortals died and entered the first
r esurrection, their former inspirers
became their companions and rulera,
having shaped their thoughts whilst
in mortality through their labours for
self and earthly objects. And these
in turn became angel inspirers unto
other mortals of like characteristics,
so that a long period of time passed
away before the spirits who were thus
bound to earth cou1d be persuaded
there were ot her heavens open for
them to come and inherit. And as it
was so then, even so is it this day with
the spirits of the dead.
6. As there are good lands on earth
still unoccupied, whilst in other re-
gions there are great cities with mor-
tals crowded together, starving and
dwelling in misery, and they will not
hence, even so is the great multitude
of angels of darkness gathered together
upon the face of the earth-and many
of them will not hence into the higher
heavens of Jehovih.
7. As cold metal in contact with hot
meta! changeth temperature, so by
angel contact with the spirit of man,
knowledge passeth f:rom one to the
other. So also i~ it of the passions,
sentiments, desires and aspirations
betwixt the twain.
O
PEN thy understanding, 0 man,
that thon mayest discern 1the
beauty and glory of heavenly places
prepa red by thy God, Lords and
guardian angels.
2. For as we came up out of
8. Also, as where the sea breaketh
upon the land, and the twain are ever
in contact, so is the spirit world ever
in contact with the mortal world
(which place of contact was named by
the ancients the intermediate world
or place of purgation, wherefrom none
the could rise till made organically pnre).
836
B 0 0 K 0 F D 1 S C 1 P L 1 N E.
9. Now therefore thy God showeth
thee certil.in signs characteristic of the
difference betwixt the angels of the first
and the second resurrection :
10. Of the first, coming as individuals,
whether professing names, signs or
histories, and especially the ancients.
Whose words are uttered from the stand-
point of the earth looking upward.
11. But of the second, as light only.
Whose words emanate from my holy
places in heaven coming down to thee.
12. Of the first, llatterers, to win thy
favour. Whose counsel pertaineth to
thyself and to earthly things.
13. Of the second, to teach thee self-
abnegation, and lead thee to do good
unto others regardless of thine own
profit, ca.ring little whether thou art
prosperous on the earth provided thou
shalt be raised up in time to come.
14. For the revelations of the second
resurrection come from the light of
my Holy Council, who have aban-
doned their earthly habits and desires,
knowing the way of raising up ever-
lastingly is by constantly putting
away the conditions below.
15. Thy God cometh not' as an in-
dividual ; neither do my Lords nor
holy angels though they come in my
name. 1 come in legions of thousands
and millions.
16. Neither varieth the inspiration
from my kingdom one jot or tittle
from what it hath ever been, save in
greater fulness, according to the in-
crease of capacity in mortals to receive
knowledge.
dead thy pa.th shall be straight to
glory.
25. Who say : Heap up riches, for
there is no punishment after death, or,
·26. Who sa.y : Turn not thy thoughts
into thine own soul to discover thy
ungodliness, for when thou art dead
thy spirit shall revel in bliss, or,
'l:t. Who say: The angel world is a
place of progression without self-
abnegation and good works, or,
28. Who saith : Behold me, I am
from the highest, most exalted sphere,
or from a far-off star, or,
29. Who saith: 1 have visited the
planets, or,
30. Who saith : Resurrection cometh
by reincarnation- first a stone, then
l~ad, then silver, then gold, then a
tree, then a worm, then an animal
and then man, or that a spirit re-
entereth the womb, and is born again
in mortality, or,
31. Who saith : Blessed art thou;
for a host of ancient spirits attend
thee-thou hast a great mission.
32. For all of these are the utter-
ances of the angels of the first
!esu!rection. And· though they may
1nsp1re great oratory and learned
discourses, yet they are llatterers, and
will surely lead thee into grief.
CHAPTER IV.
GOD ILLOBTRATETH THE CHARACTERISTICS OF
MORTALS ACCORDINGLY AS THEY ARE
UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF THE FIRST OB
BECOND RESURRECTION. .
17. The spirit of my heavens per-
vadeth my worda; through my holy
angels 1 have apoken unto thee from coNSIDER the words of thy God,
thy youth up, and in my revelations 0 man, and profit thou in the
thou perceivest the touch of my hand. application of thy j udgment for the
18. I cry out Order, Purity, Disci- growth of thy soul everlastingly.
pline, Justice and Good Works-or, 2. Of t he first resurrection man
Retribution ! saith : I know my rights and dare
19. 0 man, beware of angels who maintain them. ·
say: In heaven there is no organiza- 3. Of the second he saith: 1 ask not
tion, nor God, nor Holy Council, nor for righfs for my own seif; whatsoever
discipline, nor order, nor teaching, nor is put upon me, that will 1 bear.
self-denial, or, 4. Of the first: No man shall impose
20. Who say: There is no God, no upon me.
Jehovih, no government in heaven, or, 5. Of the second: I mpose upon me
21. Who say: There is no bondage whatsoever thou wilt.
after death; no place or condition of 6. Of the first : Let me j ustify my-
euffering, or, seif in what 1 have done; behold, I am
22. Who say : When thou diest thy fa.lsely accused.
spirit shall enter paradise and dwell 7. Of the second: Jehovih knoweth
in perpetual ease and glory. my case; neither will I plead in my
23. Who say: Heaven is an endless own behalf. Whoso is falsely aceused,
summer land, with silvery rivers and let him wait; in time the Father will
golden boats for all, or, right all things.
24. Who say : Eat, drink and enj oy 8. Of the first : Let no man try to
thyself for the gratification of thine rule over me; I will maiutain my
earthly passions, for when thou art liberty at all hazarda.
837
5 OAHSPE.
9. Of the second :
all the world hath
should I ask it?
Since no man in We temperance men !-and presume to
full liberty-why dwell with the pure?
5. 1 say unto thee, till that man is
purified and grown to be constitution-
ally temperate he is not temperate.
10. Of the first : Make me a leader;
let me be the head.
11. Of the second : Make me not a
leader; lest 1 would feel responsible
for those I led.
12. Of the first : 1 have done my
share, let others do as weil.
13. Of the second : Though I do all 1
can, yet I am short before J ehovih.
14. Of the first : 0 that 1 were rich
as my neighbour, what a great deal 1
would do !
15. Of the second : Take all 1 have,
and at once.
16. Of the first : Myself, and then my
family will I help; after that others.
17. Of the second: We are all
brothers and sisters; why shall we
prefer one of J ehovih's children above
another?
18. Of the first : 1 will not consider
my shortcomings, lest 1 be dej ected in
spirit.
19. Of the second : Teach me, 0
Father, to look into my every act, word
and thought, to purify myself in Thy
sight.
20. Of the first : What might the
wor~d say? Ah ! my reputation is at
stake!
21. Of the second : What will
Jehovih say? With Him must I pre-
serve my reputation, more than with
ten thousand worlds.
22. Of the first: Whoso injureth me
shall su:f!er by my hand.
23. Of the second :_
Let us render good
unto those that injure us.
CHAPTER V.
GOD SHOWET)l BOW MORTALS MAY ATTAIN
INSPI&ATION FROM JEHOVIB AND FRmI TBE
ANGELB OF TBE SECOND RESURRECTION.
6. Consider then the seers and pro-
phets (who hear the angels) whether
they have grown constitutionally to be
one with Purity, Wisdom and Good-
ness.
7. For this is reguired of such as
presume to haar me and my holy
ones. And having attained to this,
who can j udge them, save they have
attained unto the same?
8. Shall a man inquire of the
magician as to the inspiration of the
prophets of thy God? Or the angels
of the first resurrection be consulted
as to their opinions of my revelations,
and their words taken for truth with-
out substantiation?
9. Let all things be proved, or
supported by corresponding testimony
known to be true. As the holy man
perceiveth how things should be in
the heavens above, so they are. The
unholy man seeth heavenly things but
dimly; he bindeth himself in ancient
r evelations which have become cor-
rupted.
10. J ehovih is as near this day as in
time of the ancients; put thyself in
order, becoming one with Hirn, and
no book so easily read as His created
universe.
11. Inspiration cometh lese by books,
than by what Jehovih wrote-His
worlds. Read thou H irn and His works.
Frame thy speech and thy thoughts for
Hirn; He will answer thee in thine own
behaviour, andin the happiness of thy
soul.
12. Great wisdo::n cannot be attained
in a day; nor purity and strength to
overcome temptation, till the growth
be from the foundation.
13. The fool will say : The sacred
books are no more than man of his
W HOSO ruleth over his own own knowledge might write; yet, he
earthly desires, passions, ac- hath not imitated wisely the power
tions, words and thoughts, being of the words of thy God.
constantly watchful for the highest 14. Let him do this weil, and, behold,
light and greatest good, is on the right he will also declare my words are from
road. me. Yea, he will recognize them
2. And if he persist in this till it wherever found.
hath become a constitutional growth 15. lt is the will and wish of tliy
within him, then shall he hear the God, that all men become constitu-
Voice. tionally capable of receiving and
3. Who then can judge him, save comprehending the highest light, and
they have also attained to the same that they shall no longer depend upon
high estate? Is it wise for the un- any priest, church, oracle or holy
learned to dispute with the learned; book, or upon consulting the spirits.
or the unholy with the holy? 16. That their behaviour may make
4. Shall the drunken man, reeking the earth a place of peace, with long
with foul smell, sign the pledge to life U?J-tO all people, for the glory of
•hink no more, and straightway say: Jehov1h.
8S8
BOOK OF DIS C IPLINE. 6
CHAPTER VI.
OF JEHOVIH AND HIS KIN_
GDOM ON EARTH.
0 MAN, apply thyself to under-
stand the spirit of my discourse,
for herein shalt thou find the key to
the Father's kingdom.
2. These are the rules of the second
resurrection : To become an inter-
preter and worker without a written
formula :
3. That whatsoever giveth joy to thy
fellow and rendereth peace and good
will unto all-shall be called light:
4. That whatsoever giveth sorrow to
thy fellow, or discouragement to others
-shall be called darkness :
5. As to find fault with another, or
to aggravate unto displeasure7 shall be
called darkness:
6. But to make another's burden
light, to encourage him unto strength
and happiness-shall be called light:
7. To be forever complaining about
this or that-shall be called darkness:
B. To be forever imparting cheerful-
ness-shall be called light.
9. Now therefore whoso becometh
a member of my kingdom shall prac-
tise light; but whoso practiseth dark-
ness, will depart away from my
kingdom of his own accord.
10. Neither shalt thou practise dark-
ness upon thy fellow for any shortness
he hath done.
11. Nor shalt thou reprove him for
error, nor blame him, nor make thyself
an inquisitor over him, nor assume to
be a judge over him.
12. Nor ask him to apologize, nor
otherwise seek to make him humble
himself before thee.
13. Nor shalt thou boast over him
because thou art wiser or stronger or
more expert.
14. For all such inquisition cometh
of darkness, and shall return upon
him who uttereth it in time to come.
15. Rather shalt thou discover the
good that Hi in thy neighbour, and
laud him therefor, for this is the
method of raising him higher.
CHAPTER VII.
GOD SHOWETH THE DIFFERENCE BETWIXT
THE RELIGION OF THE OLDEN TIME AND
THAT OF THE PRESENT.
olden time, which is the Ever Present ·
thou shalt set thy heart and mind
and soul upon to love and glorify
above all things, forever and ever.
3. The All Highest in thy neighbour
which he manifesteth-that i;>ereeive
and discourse upon-all else in him,
see not nor mentitm.
4. The All Highest subj ect-that dis-
course upon- all else pass by.
5. The first lowest thoughts pertain
to eating and drinking; and on these
the man of darkness delighteth to dis-
com;se.
6. 'l'he second lowest thoughts per-
tain to sexual matters ; an.d on these
the man of darkness delighteth ,to dis-
course. .
7. The third ·lowest thoughts per-
tain to man's selfishness, as bodily
comforts and luxuries, as ease and
riches, as to what he hopes and
desires for himself; and on these the
man of darkness delightetb to dis-
course.
8. The fourth lowest thoughts per-
tain to criticizing others, as to
doctrine, r eligion, philosophy, be-
haviour and so on, forever pulling aH
things to pieces; and the man of
darkness delighteth in such discourse.
9. To abandon such discourse, and
to di11Course on the highest subj ects, in
preference, such as teaching, ~mpart­
ing knowledge, suggesting remedies
for the unfortunate and unlearned,
for improving in excellence the homes
of others, the agriculture, mechanics
ai:J.d such like; the man of light de-
lighteth to apply himself to these,
both in word and practice, forever
building up.
10. Consider then what thv mind
shall go in search of, that 'it ma y
pursue the highest. This is serving
the All Highest, instead of darkness.
11. Now ali of these things were
taught in the religion of the olden
time, and were given to man b_y thy
God to raise man up toward my
heaven.Jy kingdom. ·
~2. Nevertheless this religion per-
tamed to man's own entity, a religion
that was to be answered either in
reward or punishment upon himself
personally. His own salvation bcing
the subj ect paramount to all other
considerations.
13. And even where they founded
brotherhoods, as the brotherhood of
TO the All One, Jehovih, now as in Brahma; brotherhood of Buddha, and
the olden time, and for all time brotherhood of Jesus, they were never-
to come, all honour and glory, wor.lds theless but selfish brotherhoods,
beyond number. whose aim was the salvation of each
2. The Highest Ideal, the Nearest one's own self.
Perfect the mind can conceive of- 14. Neither was it possible in the
let such be thy Jehovih, even as in the olden time to give man any other
839
7 OAHSPE.
rel:igion. it being necessary to appeal
to hiti own advantages to make him
heed thy God.
15. But now, behold, 0 man, I come
to give a great religion, yet not to set
aside the old; I come to such as do
fulfil tlie old, and to give them the
religion of Gods themselves !
16. Saying unto them: G-0 save others,
and no longer concern yourselves about
yourselves.
17. Go ye and provide a place of
second resurrection on earth, where
the people shall put away all low
things and practise the all highest.
18. And call ye out unto the Uzians
to come and inherit the place with you.
19. Nevertheless whosoever is only
concerned as to the salvation of his
own soul is not yet ready for the
religion I give unto you.
20. Mine shall not concern them-
selves as to their own self's salvation;
for having faith in Jehovih, that if
they raise others up, with their own
wisdom and strength, they are already
saved, and without fear.
21. Compare then my second resur-
rection in heaven with that which
t hou wouldst found on earth for the
glory and honour of thy Creator.
22. How chooseth thy God his
initiates? Rath he censors ?-saying
to all who come-hold, be ye examined
and tried, to prove ye are worthy the
darknessL such as slander, or tattling
-what then shall be done?
30. And thy God answered them,
saying : Answer them not, lest ye also
practise darkneas.
31. Again they questioned, saying :
Suppose they are good, but indolent?
Suppose they say : Let us rest and
sleep, Jehovih will provide for His
chosen-what sayest thou of them?
32. And thy God answered, saying :
Censure them not, for they are weak
or diseased. Let your example heal
them. Is it not in the covenant to do
good with all of one's wisdom and
strength? Because t hey do little, the
matter is betwixt them and J ehovih?
33. Lastly, 0 man, how can they who
live the all h ighest cast the first stone
at their neighbour?
34. For t he act itself would be the
committing of darkness.
35. Nevertheless whoso hath strength
and yet will not support himself-
teach thou one such man to change
his attributes, and thou shalt be
honoured amongst Gode.
36. Thy glory is to fulfil the all
highest thyself. When all who can,
will \lo this, thereon rest t hy faith
that the quickening power and wis-
dom of J ehovih will sustain Hie
kingdom through His holy angele.
second resurrection ? CHAPTER VIII.
23. Nay, verily, for this would imply GOD SHOWETH WHAT IS MEANT BY
inquisition-a court of darkness. FOLLOWING THE HlGHEBT LIGHT.
24. Now, behold, 0 man, after t he
second resurrection was established BE considerate of thy fellow man,
in heaven, I called out unto all the and weigh his standing place in
heavens of the earth, saying: Come, the sight of thy God.
all ye of the first resurrection, also, 2. For one man saith: My highest
let my guardians go down to mortals light is to get money ; another, to get
and proclaim unto all people-the great lear ning; another, to enj oy
kingdom of God is open to all who earthly pleasure ; another, to contem-
choose to come. plate sexual r elations ; another , to serve
25. Now some, who were not strong Buddha; another, to serve Brahma;
in faith in Jehovih said: Will we not another, to serve Christ; another, to
be overrun with angels of darkness? be efficient in warfare, and so on, every
26. But thy God answered them, one from his own standpoint.
saying: That is not our matter_; ours 3. Many are also under the preju-
is to serve Jehovih by working for all dice of old things, or the influence of a
whom He inspireth to come unto us. neighbour, or a spirit, or the1r sur-
Because anyone desireth to come- roundings, or the impulse of their own
!;hat is sufficient testimony that the fiesh, and say : I too follow my highest
light of Jehovih is .upon him. light.
27. Others said: What of the indo- 4. Whereas they are in darkness
lent and the shiftless? Will they not altogether; neither know they what is
overrun us and thus set aside the meant by the term-highest light-
good we aim at? often venturing an opinion or a vague
28. And thy God answered them, surmise instead, and believing they
sa.ying : When ye practise the all are expressing their highest light.
highest, behold, the others will depart 5. For which reasons thou shalt
away from you. explain that only facts well known, or
29. Then others questioned, saying: comparatively proven, are light. An
Suppose they who come shall practise opinion is not light.
840
B 0 0 K 0 F D 1S C 1 P L 1 N E. 8
6. That whoso professeth light must
know the matter of his own knowledge.
7. That facts, numbers, figures or
axioms can demonstrate light; and
that without these, then the supposed
light is only darkness.
8. Pursue this philosophy and thou
shalt easily discover who amongst you
hath the highest light; and also what
kind of j udgment shall govern the
chief's rulings.
9. Some will desire to consult the
angels as to which-in a given matter
-is the highest light; but 1 say unto
thee, thou shalt weigh the words of
angels even as if they were mortals,
exacting similar facts and substantia-
tion.
10. Was it not the consulting of the
oracles that destroyed Vind'yu,
Socatta, Fonece, P ersia, Ghem and
· Greece? Such consultation of angele
is answered from the first resurrec-
tion; and it ever will be so, save man
exact from the angels facts and sub-
stantial proof.
11. These, then, are the rules of
light: That which is seif-evident:
That which is axiomatic: That which
is substantiated by facts: That which
hath a parallel in known things :
Things that lead to peace, order, and
the uplifting of thy neighbour and
thyself.
12. Also to discipline thyself to be
constantly ön the alert to be pure,
good, truthful and gentle in thy
speech; to practise right-doing-these
are following the highest light.
13. 'l'his though is darkness-to ex-
press fault finding, criticism, censure,
or even an opinion unsupportable by
facts. ,
CHAPTER IX.
GOD SHOWETH WHO IS AND WHO IS NOT
PREPARED TO ENTER JEHOVIU'S KINGDOM
ON EARTH.
WHOSO hath said : 1 have searched
my h eart and mind, and, now
before J ehovih I desire to live a
higher life.
2. 1 desire to put away my selfish-
ness, and passions, and sentiments of
unrighteousness and unclean thoug.hts
and words.
3. 1 desire more t o serve others than
myself. ·
4. I desire no possessions, nor pre-
ference over another, nor to be a leader
nor a chief.
5. 1 wish to discipline myself not to
speak of myseLf.
6. 1 would learn to speak truth only.
7. 1 would that 1 were affiliative.
841
8. 1 des-ire to do good unto others
contimi.ally.
9. 1 long for association.
10. 1 will not criticize any person,
nor censure them, or find fault with
them.
11. 1 will conform to the rites and
discipline of the fraternity.
12. 1 will fulfil my covenants with
J ehovih, with all my wisdom and
strength.
13. 1 renounce isolated labour.
14. 1 renounce the unorganized world.
15. 1 renounce the Uzians.
16. 1 consecrate myself to Jehovih.
17. 1 give up all unto Him.
18. What 1 do henceforth shall be
by and through the fraternity in His
Name.II
19. Then that man is prepared to
enter the F ather's kingdom.
20. But these a re not prei;>ared to
enter the kingdom, who say: I want a
home for comfort's sake, and where 1
may lead an easy life.
21. 1 desire t his because 1 shall have
opportunity to improve myself.
22. I desire this because 1 cannot
care for myself, and that 1 may be
cared for.
23. Where 1 may shirk responsibili-
ties.IJ
24. Weigh this matter, 0 man, and
be thine own judge as to whether
thou art prepared in haart and soul.
Neither flatter thyself that thou canst
come in unprepared and not be dis-
covered. For soon or late thine inmost
thoughts will become known, and the
fraternity will not be thy place.
25. To put away flesh-food is easy,
but to put away dark thoughts and
words- who can do this in a dayi'
CHAPTER X.
GOD REVEALETH TUE CURE FOR REMORSE.
B E pat ient, 0 man, with thy neigh-
bour and thy brother.
2. Many men are far sliort in
righteousness, and without strength
to accomplish to the extent the mind
conceives;
3. And for having done wrong suffer
lamentably, with none to relieve
them;
4. For which reason thon shalt pro-
vide them honourable comfort.
5. In olden time, such ones confessed
to a priest, and he pardoned them,
whereby they were quieted and
relieved of great distress.
6. In a later time it was said : Con-
fess ye one another.
7. But ip. this day neither of these
9 OAHSPE.
is compatible with the intelligence of
such as shall be of Jehovih's kingdom.
8. If then a man have remorse for
having wronged a brother ur neigh-
bour he shall so acknowledge it to
that member, and this shall be
restitution, even as if the wrang had
had not been committed.
9. But if he hath wronged the com-
munity, then he shall acknowledge it
to the whole assembly, and that shall
be restitution, even as if the wrang
had not been committed.
10. And in either case he shall not
take further sorrow or remorse, or
shame, nor shall any member ever
speak of the matter afterwards, save
to comfort him.
11. But in all cases confession shall
be made in the Name of J ehovih, and
forgiveness likewise. But whoso seek-
eth to justify himself, or to make it
appear that he was but partly culpable,
or that another led him into it-that
man shall not be forgiven.
12. If he were led into it-then he
who led him knoweth ·it and shall
exonerate him. -
13. Whoso Jehovih hath created in
proximity as to time, country, place
and association- the same shall not be
far distant on many occasions in t he ·
next world; and in time to come they
shall be as if in a hause of glass, and
all the deeds done while in mortality
shall be read as if in an open book.
14. For which reason thou shalt not
tarry by the way when thou hast
wronged any man or the community,
but go quickly and confess, that thy
spirit become pure in the sight of
Jehovih.
15. Though thou grieve, saying :
Shall I humble myself?-I say unto
thee this is Godliness, for it is the
purification of thyself, and the begin-
ning of power.
16. But if a man wrang himself, as
by pollution, dissipation, or otherwise,
this is sin against J ehovih ; and to H irn
shall he confess privately, making a
covenant with his Creator to do so no
more-which if he k'eep-then the
wrang is forgiven him, and he shall
have peace of soul.
CHAPTER XI.
GOD BHOWETH THAT THE RENUNCIATION OF
THE UZIANB IB NECESSARY.
2. Many come to my holy place,
saying : Hear me, 0 God, 1 am weary
of the first resurrection and of the
earth. Open the gates of paradise
unto thy servant.
3. And I say unto them : Whoso will
put aside all that is below, shall dwell
in this heaven ; but whoso cannot in
heart, and mind, and soul renounce
all that is below is not prepared to
enter.
4. Hath not J ehovih said on earth :
Husband and wife shall be the model
and key of My kingdom ?
5. As woman forsaketh father,
mother, brother and sister and be-
cometh one with her husband, so do
they of the first resurrection forsake
all the earth and the lowest heaven
in order to become one with the king-
dom of thy God.
6. For, save the mind and haart be
one with my holy place, the love of
improvement will also depart out of
that man's soul.
7. Isolation belongeth below the
second resurrection, but unity is
within it.
8. He who hath disciplined himself
to be honest in his own sight may be
in error ; he who striveth to do good
on his own account may be in error as
to an ultimate good; and in all cases
man alone is .weak.
9. Yet no man can practise the
highest whilst living with those who
are inclined downward.
10. In the second resurrection the
angels are relieved of individual re-
sponsibility, all mattere being under
the wisdom of the Holy Council, whose
head is thy God.
11. First on earth, monarchies, tben
republics, then fraternities, the latter
of which is now in embryo, and' shall
follow after both the others.
12. Behold, how hard it is for an
ignorant man to conceive of a state
without a master, or for the people of
a republic to understand a state with-
out votes and maj orities, and a chief
ruler. Yet such shall be the fraterni-
ties.
13. Have they not r esolved tbeir
colleges into teachers and pupils? By
their superior knowledge do these
heads receive their places, yet not as
rulers, but teachers.
14. Have they not resolved juris-
prudence so that testimony governs
the rulings? According to evidence
adduced and the knowledge of the
H EARKEN, 0 man, to the dis- judge, so shall he decide, and not
course of thy God upon the according to his own volition.
second resurrection in heaven, and 15. Out of the wisdom of the college
apply thou these principles to found- and the court shalt thou discover the
ing Jehovih's kingdom on earth. rules of fraternity and by relieve-
842
BOOK OF DISCIPLINE. 11)
watch (rotation in office) preserve the
brotherhood against caste and dicta-
torship.
16. See to it then, in departing out
of Uz, that thou take witb tbee only
things tbat have proved good-tbe rest
leave bebind.
17. As Jebovih gave woman to man,
and tbe twain became one in tbeir
aspiration, bope and labour, and
especially witb reference to their off-
spring, so shall tbe members of tbe
fraternity be such as having re-
nounced all the world, can become one
with one another, and especially for
raising up the young to become tbe
Fatber's edifice on earth.
18. As the busband is the repre-
sentative head of the family, yet he
shall not tyrannize over them,1 nor by
bis rulings make himself a separate
entity from the rest.
CHAPTER XII.
GOD DIBCOURSETH ON LOVE.
M ANY will come to tbee, inquir-
ing : How sayest tbou of such as
are married, having children of their
own? Shall they so love tbe fraternity
and the kingdom of J ehovih tbat tbey
shall set aside their filial love, assign-
ina tbeir children wholly to the
te~chers, day and night?
2. Thou shalt answer them: Nay,
in all the fulness of tbeir love, let
them manifest unto their little ones.
And Jet this be a testimony unto those
who have children, how hard it is for
foundlings and orphan babes tbat
have none to love or caress them, that
such parents may add unto tbeir
housebold others also, sbowing no
partiality. And this is the ~igbest _of
all mortal attributes-to be impartial
in love.
3. Not to abridge love but to extend
it, God-like, embracing all people, so
shall the members of the brot herbood
labour with thy God and bis holy
angels, for tbe glory of J ehovih.
CHAPTER XIII.
OF DESTROYERS AND OF BUILDERS.
ONE goetb about preaching against
heavenly revelations, and against
tbe wisdom of J ehovib ; and bis daring
speeches and good logic fall upon
enors and blunders in tbe written
words, and he draweth the populace
after the manner of a gladiator.
2. Yet one such man that hath
organized a brotherhood for doing
good-the world hath not founrl.
3. Another man goeth forth preach-
ing in laudation of heavenly reve}a-
tions, and on the glory of J ehovih.
The errors in inspiration be heedeth
not; tbe good he treasureth. He may
draw but few- unto him, and his work
may seem little.
4. But in time to come his work
becometh mighty over all the world.
He organizetb bis people in lQve and
fellowsbip.
5. The latter is a builder on Jeho-
vih's edifice.
6. Let these two examples stand
before thee; and when the speech of
the vain man is directed against
heavenly revelations, saying: This is
not of God; this is not of J ehovih, or
tbis is not of angels-know tbou that
that man is not a builder.
7. But when a man saith all things
are of J ebovih, either directly or
indirectly; wbatsoever is good in
tbem is my deligbt-know tbou that
tbat man is a builder.
8. To strive continually to compre-
hend the right, and to do it-this is
excellent discipline.
9. To be capable of judging tbe
right, and ever to practise it witbin
a fraternity- tbis is Godliness.
10. In tbe day tbou judgest thyself
as with tbe eye of thy Creator, tbou
art as one about to start on a long
journey through a deligbtful country.
11. In the day thou hast rendered
judgment against tbyself for not
practising tby higbest light, tbou art
as one departed from a coast of
breakers toward mid-ocean-like one
turned from mortality toward J eho-
vib ! like one turned from perisbable
things toward the Ever Eternal-the
All Mighty.
12. And when tbou hast joined witb
others in a fraternity to do tbese
things- then thou hast begun the
second resurrection.
843
CHAPTER XIV.
GOD DISCOURSETH ON THI! AUTHORITY Oll
HIS OWN WORDB.
FIRST, freedom unto all people on
earth, and to the angele of
heaven, to think and to speak what-
ever they will.
2. Second, that since no man can
acquire · knowledge for another, but
tbat each and all must acquire know-
ledge for tbemselves, thou shalt dis-
pose of whatsoever is before thee in
thine own way.
3. Remembering that one man seetb
11 OAHSPE.
Jehovih in the leaves and flow~rs; in
the mountains and skies; in the sun
and stars; or heareth Him in the
wind and all corporeal sounds; yea,
he knoweth his Creator in the pre-
sence of everything under the sun.
And he is happy.
4. Another seeth not Jehovih, nor
knoweth Him. Nay, he denieth there
is any All Person in the universe.
He is not happy.
5. One man distinguisheth the har-
mony of sounds, and he is delighted.
6. Another man cannot distinguish
the harmony, and he findeth no de-
light therein.
7. So of the words of thy God, one
man can distinguish. and another
cannot.
8. The revelationt1 of thy God por-
tray the harmony and glory of J eho-
vih's creations, and of the organic
heavens of His holy angele.
9. Whether thyself, or thy brother,
or thy neighbour, shall profess to
reveal the words of thy God-it is
weil.
10. Strive thou in this, and tliou
shalt improve thyself thereby.
11. In the preservation of my words
for thousands of years resteth the
recognition of my authority.
12. 1 call all people unto me and my
kingdom; happiness proclaim 1 as a
result of right-doing and good works;
whoever do these are one with me in
the framing of words.
13. To be one with J ebovih, this is
Godliness; to be one with thy God,
the way is open to all men.
14. To be. organic for love and good
works-this is like the fraternities in
heaven.
15. Whoever striveth for this hath
my authority already; his words in
time shall become one with me and
my works.
16. To improve thyself in these holy
things is to discipline thyself to be-
come a glory to thy Creator.
17. Let any who will, say: Thus
saith God, or thus saith J ehovih, or ,
thus say 1. Truth expounded shall
· never die ; the discrepancy from truth
is short-lived.
18. lmprove thyself, 0 man, to be
sincere in thyself and in all thou
doest; and when thou hast attained
this, thy words shall be with power.
19. Remember thy Creator and seek
to discover Him in the best per
fections; r emembering that darkness
knoweth Him not, but Light pro-
cla4meth Him forever.
20. For on the foundation of an All
Person, and believing in Hirn, lie tht1
beginning and the way of everlasting
resurrection. Without Him-none have
risen.
21. These are the words and dis·
cipline; in_such direction shapeth thy
God the thoughts of millions. The
twain are the authority vested in me,
thine eitler brother, by J ehovih,
Creator, Ruler and Dispenser, worlds
without end. Amen !
END OF BOOK OF DIBOIPLINE.
l Book of Jehovih's Kingdom draws a separate line for children under fourteen years of age
END OF OAHSPE.
GLOSSARY
AsAPH. A spirit who receives the newly-born from earth.
AsHAR. Spirit (angel) guardian to a mortal.
Asu. Adam. The first creation.
ATMOSPHEREA. (a) A degree of cosmic density. (b) The envelope
of the planet and home of spirits newly risen.
CoRPOR. (a) A degree of cosmic density, having length, breadth
and thickness. (b) The Earth.
DAN, DAN'HA. Minor and major times of light in the planet's
roadway.
DRUJA. An unprogressed spirit, risen from mortality but earth-
bound.
Es. Spirit and its implications.
ETHE, ETHEREAN. (a) A rarified cosmic degree which interpene-
trates all denser degrees. (b) Dwellers in the condition known
as Ethe.
,HA'K. Darkness and its implications.
KosMON. A time (cosmic) and cöndition of order as contrasted
with chaos.
SAR'.Gis. A condition which enables a discarnate being to manifest
to the senses of the embodied.
SE'Mu. A condition favo;uring the manifestation of forms of lüe-
as on a new planet.
Su'rn. An aptitude for registering the presence of beings in other
conditions of embodiment.
TAE. (a) The highest general expression of Man. (b) A representa-
tive man.
Uz, UzIAN. (a) The opposite of Creation. (b) One whose faith is
in things which pass away.
OAH SPE
The complete Revelation (of which this booklet forms about
one-eighth) is contained in 844 pages, uniform with these, together
with an Index of 59 pages, and contains
A SYNOPSIS
of the Cosmogony of the Universe; the Creation of Planets and
of Man; the manner of the Unseen Worlds and the Labour arid
Glory of Gods and Goddesses in the Etherean Heavens;
ALSO AN ACCOUNT OF
the submersion of the Continent of Pan in the Pacific Ocean,
24,000 years before the present Era, and a brief history of the
preceding 55,000 years.
First given to mortals in the thirty-third
year of the Kosmon Era (1881).
Available in two bindings and containing numerous illustrations.
Cloth boards, red edges, lOs. 9d.
From
THE KOSMON PRESS
16A THE BOULEVARD, BALHAM HIGH ROAD, LONDON, S.W.17
ALSO
Kosmon Manual No. 1
or
Life, Consciousness and Persistence
A constructive examination of present-day spiritual thought.
Demy 8vo, 62 pp., 2s. 6d. cloth boards, post free.
MADE AND PRINTED I N ENGLAND BY
THE GARDEN CITY PRESS LIMITED, LETCHWORTH, HERTS.
