{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__anderson___light_of_kosmon.pdf","mytitle":"Light Of Kosmon","mylang":"de"}
THE
LIGHT o
/KOSMON
Being seven books, containing
essential spiritual wisdom
from
OAHSPE
Copyright, 1939
By W ing Anderson
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BY BERW ICK AND SMITH COMPANY NORWOOD MASS.
OAHSPE
The complete Kosmon Revelations, of which this book forms about one-eighth, is
contained in 891 pages, consisting of thirty-six books with ninety-five illustrations.
It is printed in two sizes; The American Edition has pages and type uniform with this
book and was printed from the original Newbrough plates of the 1891 edition. The
English Edition is a book five by seven inches, printed in small, six point type.
OAHSPE contains a complete account of the creation of this earth, and of the
universe; an account of the creation and history of man ; a new explanation of natural
forces, including light, heat, sound, magnetism, electricity and gravity; an explanation
of the cyclic system used by the ancients in their prophecies; an account of the sub­
mersion of the Continent of Pan (Mu) in the Pacific Ocean; also, the record of the
great pyramid and its builders; and the keys to the ancient rites and ceremonies of
initiation.
First given to mortals in the thirty-third, year of the Kosmon Era (1881).
American Edition, 85.00.
English Edition, $3.50.
The Light of Kosmon, $1.00.
The Light of Kosmon, Linen Binding, $1.50.
Published by
KOSMON INDUSTRIES
Publishing -Manufacturing -Importing
2210 West Eleventh Street
Los Angeles California
.
O A H S P E
A FTER the creation of man, the Creator,
Jehovih, said unto him: That thou
shait know thou art the work of My hand, I
have given thee capacity for knowledge, power,
and dominion. This was the first era.
2. But man was helpless, he understood not
the voice of the Almighty, neither stood he
upright. And Jehovih called His angels, who
were older than the earth, and He said unto
them: Go ye, raise man upright, and teach
him to understand.
3; And the angels of heaven descended to
the earth and raised man upright. And man
wandered about on the earth. This was the
second era.
4. Jehovih said to the angels that were with
man: Behold, man hath multiplied on the
earth. Bring ye them together; teach them
to dwell in cities and nations.
5. And the angels of Jehovih taught the
peoples of the earth to dwell together in cities
and nations. This was the third era.
6. And in that same time the Beast (self)
rose up before man, and spake to him, saying:
Possess thou whatsoever thou wilt, for all
things are thine, and are good for thee.
7. And man obeyed the Beast; and war
came into the world. This was the fourth era.
8. And man was sick at heart, and he called
out to the Beast, saying: Thou saidst: Possess
thyself of all things, for they are good for thee.
Now, behold, war and death have encompassed
me about on all sides. I pray thee, therefore,
teach me peace !
9. But the Beast said: Think not I am come
to send peace on the earth; I come not to send
peace, but a sword. I come to set man at vari­
ance against his father; and a daughter against
her mother. Whatsoever thou findest to eat,
be it fish or flesh, eat thou thereof, taking no
thought of to-morrow.
10. And man ate fish and flesh, becoming
carnivorous, and darkness came upon him,
neither yet heard he the voice of Jehovih, nor
believed in Him. This was the fifth era.
11. And the Beast divided itself into four
great heads, and possessed the earth about;
and man fell down and worshipped them.
12. And the names of the heads of the Beast
were, B r a h m in , B u d d h ist, Ch r is t ia n , and
M o h a m m e d a n . And they divided the earth,
and apportioned it between themselves, choos­
ing soldiers and standing armies for the main­
tenance of their earthly aggrandizement.
13. And the Brahmins had seven million
soldiers; the Buddhists twenty million; the
Christians seven million; and the Mohamme­
dans two million, whose trade was killing man.
And man, in service of the Beast, gave one-
sixth of his life and his labor to war and stand­
ing armies; and one-third of his life he gave
to dissipation and drunkenness. This was the
sixth era.
14. Jehovih called to man to desist from
evil; but man heard Him not. For the cun­
ning of the Beast had changed man’s flesh, so
that his soul was hid as if in a cloud, and he
loved sin.
15. Jehovih called unto His angels in heaven,
saying: Go ye down to the earth once more,
to man, whom I created to inhabit the earth
and enjoy it, and say ye to mam: Thus saith
Jehovih:
16. Behold, the seventh era is at hand. Thy
Creator commandeth thy change from a car­
nivorous man of contention, to an herbivorous
man of peace. The four heads of the Beast
shall be put away; and war shall be no more
on the earth.
17. Thy armies shall be disbanded. And,
from this time forth, whosoever desireth not
to war, thou shait not impress; for it is the
commandment of thy Creator.
18. Neither shait thou have any God, nor
Lord, nor Savior, but only thy Creator, Jeho­
vih ! Him only shait thou worship hence­
forth forever. I am sufficient unto Mine own
creations.
19. And to as many as separate themselves
from the dominion of the Beast, making these
2 OAHSPE.
covenants unto Me, have I given the founda­
tion of My kingdom on earth.
20. And all such shall be My chosen: By
their covenants and by their works shall they
be known henceforth on the earth as Mine,
and shall be called F a it h is t s .
21. But to as many as will not make these
covenants, have I given the numbers of the
Beast, and they shall be called U zia n s , sig­
nifying destroyers. And these shall be hence­
forth the two kinds of people on earth,
F a it h is t s and U zia n s .
22. And the angels of heaven descended to
the earth, to man, and appeared before him,
face to face, hundreds of thousands of them,
speaking as man speaketh, and writing as man
writeth, teaching these things of Jehovih and
His works.
23. And in the thirty-third year thereof, the
Embassadors of the angel hosts of heaven,
prepared and revealed unto man in the name
of Jehovih, His heavenly kingdoms; and have
thus herein made known the plan of His de­
lightful creations, for the resurrection of the
peoples of the earth.
24. Not infallible is this Book, Oa h spe ; but
to teach mortals h ow to a t t a in to h e a r the
Cr e a t o r ’s voice, and to see H is h eavens, in
full consciousness, whilst still living on the
earth; and to know of a truth the place and
condition awaiting them after death.
25. Neither are, nor were, the revelations
within this Oa h spe wholly new to mortals.
The same things have been revealed at the
same time unto many, who live at remote dis­
tances from one another, but who were not in
correspondence till afterward.
26. Because this light is thus comprehensive,
embracing corporeal and spiritual things, it is
called the beginning of the K osmon E r a . And
because it relates to earth, sky and spirit, it is
called Oah spe.
2
THE VOICE OF MAN.
O
JEHOVIH, what am I that I should sup­
plicate Thee ? Know I mine own weak­
ness, or understand I the way of my thoughts ?
Thou hast placed before me most wonderful
creations: They impress me, and my senses
rise up in remembrance of the Almighty.
Wherein have I invented one thought but by
looking upon Thy works ? How can I other­
wise than remember my Creator, and out of
Thy creations, 0 Jehovih, find rich food for
meditation all the days of my life ?
2. And yet, though I have appropriated the
earth unto myself, I am not happy nor perfect
withal. Misery and crime and selfishness are
upon my people.
3. What is my weakness that I cannot over­
come it ? Or what is my strength that I
succumb to the desires of the earth ? I build
up my belief and courage in Thee; but ere I
know the way of my weakness, I stumble and
fall. Am I made that I shall be forever a
reproof to myself, and a censure to my own
behavior ?
4. How shall I say to this man or that: Be
thou pure and holy, 0 man! Are not my flesh
and blood proof that man cannot be without
sin ? 0 this corruptible self, this tendency to
fall from the right way ! Thou, 0 my Creator,
hast proven before my senses, every day of my
life, that Thou alone art mighty in purity and
truth.
5. 0 that I had a starting point wherefrom
to estimate Thy wonderful decrees, or could
find a road in which I should never stumble !
But yet, 0 Jehovih, I will not complain be­
cause of the way of Thy works. Thou hast
invented a limit to my understanding, whereby
I am reminded of Thee, to call upon Thy name.
I perceive my own vanity; that whereas were
knowledge mine, I should become less behold­
ing unto Thee!
6. What am I, 0 Jehovih, without Thee; or
wherein shall I find the glory of Thy creations
but by the light of Thy countenance ? Thou
broughtest me-forth out of sin and darkness
and clothed me in light. I behold the small­
ness of myself in Thy great works. Thou hast
bound me to travel on the earth, to sojourn
with beasts and all manner of creeping things ;
nor given me one attribute wherein I can boast
over them, save in the power of destruction.
The high firmament placed Thou above m e;
the stars and moon and sun! I know Thou
hast been thither, but I am bound down in a
little corner of Thy works ! I have not power
to rise up to Thy distant places, nor to know
Thy extended heavens.
7. Hay, I have not power to shape my own
size and stature ; but all things take form and
dimension whether I will or no. In Thine own
way are built the walls of the world; by their
magnitude am I confounded; by the majesty
of Thy hand appalled. Why have I vainly
set up myself as the highest of Thy works ?
My failures are worse than any other living
creature under the sun. I cannot build my
house in perfection like a bird’s ; my ingenuity
cannot fashion a spider’s net; I cannot sail up
in the air like a bird, nor live in the water like
the fish, nor dwell in harmony like the bee.
The half of my offspring die in infancy; the
multitude of my household are quarrellers,
fighters, drunkards and beggars; the best of
my sons and daughters are less faithful than a
dog! I go forth to war, to slay my brother,
even whilst Thy wide earth hath room for all.
Yea, I aecurse the earth with starvation and sin
and untimely death. 0 that I could school my­
self to boast not of my greatness ; that I should
be forever ashamed in Thy sight, Jehovih !
8. Unto Thee I will acknowledge my iniqui­
ties ; I can hide nothing from the eye of my
Creator. Hear me then, 0 Father !
9. I took up arms against my brother.
With great armies I encompassed him about
to despoil him.
10. His widows and orphans I multiplied by
the stroke of my sword; the cry of anguish
that came out of their mouths I answered by
the destruction of my brother’s harvests.
2 OAHSPE.
11. To my captains and generals who showed
great skill in killing, I built monuments in
stone and iron. Yea, I inscribed them from
top to bottom with their bloody victories.
12. And in my vanity I called out to the
young, saying: Behold the glory of great men!
These great monuments I have builded to
them!
13. And the youth of my household were
whetted with ambition for spoil. The example
of my hand made them train themselves for
warfare.
14. To my colonels and generals I gave
badges of gold. I called to the damsels, say­
ing : Come, a great honor 1 give to you; ye
shall dance with the officers of death !
15. And they tripped up on tip-toe, elated
by the honey of my words! 0 Jehovih, how
have I not covered up my wickedness; how
have I failed to make the flow of my brother’s
blood the relish of satan !
16. To my destroying hosts I have given
great honor and glory. In the pretence of
enforcing peace I hewed my way in flesh and
blood.
17. I made great pretensions in a kingdom.
I called out to my people, saying : We must
have a kingdom. I showed them no reason for
it ; but I bade them take up arms and follow
me for patriotism’s sake. And yet what was
patriotism ? Behold, I made it as a something
greater than Thee and Thy commandment:
T hou sh alt not k il l .
18. Yea, by the cunning of my words, I
taught them my brother was my enemy; that
to fall upon him and his people and destroy
them was great patriotism.
19. And they ran at the sound of my voice,
for my glory in the greatness of my kingdom,
and they committed great havoc.
20. Yea, I built colleges for training my
young men in warfare. I drew a boundary
hither and thither, saying: This is my king­
dom ! All others are my enemies !
21. I flattered the young men with the work
of death; I said: Ye men of war! Great shall
be your glory !
22. And their judgment was turned away
from peace; I made them think that righteous­
ness was to stand up for me and my country,
and to destroy my brother and his people.
23. They built me forts and castles and arse­
nals without number. I called unto my peo­
ple, saying: Come, behold the glory of my
defences which I built for you !
24. And they gave me money and garrisons,
and ships of war, and torpedoes, shouting:
Hurrah for our kingdom! We have faith in
these things, more than in Thee, our Creator!
25. Thus I led them away from Thee.
Their eyes I turned down in the way of death.
By the might of my armies, I put away
righteousness.
26. 1 covered the earth over with drunk­
ards, and widows and orphans; to beggary I
reduced them, but 1 whetted their pride by
saying: Behold what great standing armies we
have!
27. To the man that said: There shall come
a time of peace, when war shall be no more
forever, I mocked and said : Thou fo o l!
28. I know the counts against me, 0 Father.
1 cannot hide my iniquity from Thy sight. 1
have said war was a necessary evil to prevent
a too populous w orld! I turned my back
toward the wide, unsettled regions of the
earth. With this falsehood in my mouth I
stood up before Thee ! Yea, I cried out as if
for the righteous, saying: I war for righteous­
ness, and for the protection of the weak! In
the destruction of my brethren I stood as a
murderer, pleading this excuse. Stubbornly
I persisted in not seeing justice on the other
side, whilst I out down whom Thou hadst
created alive. Above the works of Thy hand
I raised myself up as a pruning knife in Thy
vineyard.
29. Yea, more than this, I persuaded my
sons and (laughters that to war for me was to
war for our Father in heaven. By such blas­
phemy led I them into ruin. And when the
battle was over for a day I cried out: Behold
the glory of them that were slain for the honor
of their country! Thus have I added crime
to crime before Thee, Jehovih; thus destroyed
Thy beautiful creation. Verily, have I not one
word in justification of my deeds before Thee !
30. 0 that I had remained faithful with
Thee, Jehovih! But I invented gods unto the
glory of the evil one. In one place I called
out to my sons and daughters, saying: Be ye
Brahmins ; Brahma saveth whosoever profess-
eth his name. In another place I said: Be ye
Buddhists; Buddha saveth whosoever calleth
on his name. In another place I said: Be ye
Christians; Christ saveth whosoever calleth
on his name. In another place I said: Be ye
Mohammedans ; whosoever saith: There is
but one God and Mohammed is his prophet!
shall have indulgence without sin.
31. Thus have I divided the earth, 0 Jeho­
vih ! Into four great idolatries have I founded
TH E VOICE OE MAN. 3
them, and into their hands put all manner of
weapons of destruction; and they are become
more terrible against one another than are the
beasts of the forest. 0 that 1 could put away
these great iniquities which I raised up as
everlasting torments to the earth. Verily,
there is no salvation in any of these.
32. Their people are forever destroying one
another. They quarrel and kill for their re­
spective religions; setting aside Thy com­
mandment, Thou shalt not kill. They love
their own nation and hate all others. They
set aside Thy commandment, Love thy neigh­
bor as thyself.
33. They preach and pray in sufficient truth;
but not one of these people practiseth peace,
love and virtue, in any degree commensurate
with their understanding. These religions have
not saved from sin any nation or city on the
whole earth.
34. In vain have I searched for a plan of
redemption; a plan that would make the earth
a paradise, and the life of man a glory unto
Thee, and a joy unto himself. But alas, the
two extremes, riches and poverty, have made
the prospect of a millennium a thing of mock­
ery.
35. For one man that is rich there are a
thousand poor, and their interests are an in­
terminable conflict with one another. Labor
crieth out in pain; but capital smiteth him
with a heartless blow.
36. Nation is against nation; king against
king; merchant against merchant; consumer
against producer; yea, man against man, in
all things upon the earth.
37. Because the state is rotten, the politi­
cian feedeth thereon; because society is rot­
ten, the lawyer and court have riches and
sumptuous feasts; because the flesh of my peo­
ple is rotten, the physician findeth a harvest
of comfort.
38. Now, 0 Jehovih, I come to Thee ! Thou
holdest the secret of peace and harmony and
good will amongst mortals. Give me of Thy
light, 0 Father! Show me the way of pro­
ceeding, that war and crime and poverty may
come to an end. Open Thou the way of peace
and love and virtue and truth, that Thy chil­
dren may rejoice in their lives, and glorify
Thee and Thy works forever.
39. Such is the voice of man, 0 Jehovih!
In all the nations of the earth this voice riseth
up to Thee ! As Thou spakest to Zarathustra,
and to Abraham.and Moses, leading them forth
out of darkness, 0 speak Thou, Jehovih!
40. Man hath faith in Thee only ; Thou alone
wast sufficient in the olden time : To-day, Thou
alone art sufficient unto Thine own creation.
Speak Thou, 0 Jehovih!
BOOK OF JEHOVIH.
WHEREIN IS REVEALED THE THREE GREAT WORLDS, CORPOR, ATMOSPHEREA, AND
ETHEREA. AS IN ALL OTHER BIBLES IT IS REVEALED THAT THIS WORLD WAS
CREATED, SO IN THIS BIBLE IT IS REVEALED HOW THE CREATOR CREATED IT.
AS OTHER BIBLES HAVE PROCLAIMED HEAVENS FOR THE SPIRITS OF THE DEAD,
BEHOLD, THIS BIBLE REVEALETII WHERE THESE HEAVENS ARE, AND THE MAN­
NER AND GLORY AND WORK THAT THE SPIRITS OF THE DEAD ENJOY, WHEREBY
THE WISDOM, POWER, LOVE AND GLORY OF THE ALMIGHTY ARE MAGNIFIED
FOR THE UNDERSTANDING OF MAN.
& W & dhM
¿IM
t4i
¡Apology: “ The universe is full; all things are members. Speech they have: bid them speak. The recorder of their
words be thou. Such is Panic (Earth) language, the first language. What saith the bird ? The beast ? The stars ?
The sun? All? It is their souls speaking. The soul hear thou, and repeat it. This light leadeth thee to origin.” ]
CHAPTER I.
A LL was. A ll is. A ll ever shall be. The
A ll spake, and Motion was, and is, and
ever shall be; and, being positive, was called
He and Him. The A ll M otion was His speech.
2. He said, I A m ! And He comprehended
all things, the seen and the unseen. Nor is
there aught in all the universe but what is
part of Him.
3. He said, I am the soul of all; and the all
that is seen is of My person and My body.
4. By virtue o f My presence all things are.
By virtue o f My presence is life. By virtue o f My
presence are the livin g brought forth into life.
I am the Q u icken er, the M over, the Cr e a to r ,
the D estr o y er . I am F ir st and L a st .
5. Of two apparent entities am I, never­
theless I a m but On e . These entities are the
U nseen, which is P otent, and the Seen, which
is of itself I mpotent, and called Co r po r .
6. With these two entities, in likeness there­
by of Myself, made I all the living; for as the
life is the potent part, so is the corporeal part
the impotent part.
7. Chief over all that live on the earth I
made M an; male and female made I them.
And that man might distinguish Me, I com­
manded him to give Me a name; by virtue of
My presence commanded I him. And man
named Me not after anything in heaven or on
the earth. In obedience to My will named he
Me after the sounds the wind uttereth, and he
said, E— 0 — Ih ! Which is now pronounced
Jehovih, and is written thus:
6
BO O K OF J E H O V IH . 2
CHAPTER II.
J
EHOVIH said: By virtue of my presence
created I the seen and the unseen worlds.
And I commanded man to name them ; and
man named the seen worlds Corpor, and the
unseen worlds E s; and the inhabitants of Cor­
por, man named corporeans. But the inhabi­
tants of Es he called sometimes es’eans and
sometimes spirits and sometimes angels.
2. Jehovih said: I created the earth, and
fashioned it, and placed it in the firmament;
and by My presence brought man forth a living
being. A corporeal body gave I him that he
might learn corporeal things; and death I
made that he might rise in the firmament and
inherit My etherean worlds.
3. To es I gave dominion over corpor; with
es I filled all place in the firmament. But
corpor I made into earths and moons and stars
and suns; beyond number made I them, and I
caused them to float in the places I allotted to
them.
4. Es I divided into two parts, and I com­
manded man to name them, and he named one
etherea and the other atmospherea. These
are the three kinds of worlds I created; but
I gave different densities to atmospherean
worlds, and different densities to the etherean
worlds.
5. For the substance of My etherean worlds
I created Ethe, the M ost R a r e f ie d . Out of
ethe made I them. And I made ethe the most
subtle of all created things, and gave to it
power and place, not only by itself, but also
power to penetrate and exist within all things,
even in the midst of the corporeal worlds.
And to ethe gave I dominion over both atmos­
pherea and corpor.
6. In the A ll H ighest places created I the
etherean worlds, and I fashioned them of all
shapes and sizes, similar to My corporeal
worlds. But I made the etherean worlds
inhabitable both within and without, with
entrances and exits, in arches and curves,
thousands of miles high and wide, and over­
ruled I them with P erfect mechanism; and
in colors and movable chasms and mountains in
endless change and brilliancy. To them I gave
motions, and orbits and courses of their own;
independent made I them, and above all other
worlds in potency and majesty.
7. Neither created I one etherean world like
another in size or density or in component
parts, but every one differing from another,
and with a glory matchless each in its way.
8. Atmospherean worlds I also created in
the firmament, and I gave them places and
orbits and courses for themselves. But atmos­
pherean worlds I created shapeless and void
of fixed form, for they are in process of con­
densation or dissolution, being intermediate in
condition betwixt My etherean and My cor­
poreal worlds. Of three degrees of density
created I them, and I commanded man to
name them, and one he called A ’ji, and one
Ji’ay and one Nebulae.
9. But all of them are composed of the same
substances, being like the earth, but rarefied.
Nor is there on the earth or in it one thing,
even iron, or lead, or gold, or water, or oil, or
stones, but the same things are in My atmos­
pherean worlds. As I have given light to the
earth so have I given light to many of them;
and all such have I commanded man to call
comets. And even so named he them.
10. And I also created atmospherea around
about My corporeal worlds; together made I
them.
CHAPTER III.
T
HUS spake Jehovih; by the light of kos-
mon proclaimed He these things amongst
the nations of the earth.
2. Man looked upward in prayer, desiring
to know the manner of all created things, both
on earth and in heaven. And Jehovih an­
swered him, saying:
3. The whirlwind made I as a sign to man
of the manner of My created worlds. As thou
beholdest the power of the whirlwind gathering
up the dust of the earth and driving it together,
know that even so do I bring together the a’ji
and ji’ay and nebulae in the firmament of
heaven; by the power of the whirlwind create
I the corporeal suns and moons and stars.
And I commanded man to name the whirlwinds
in the etherean firmament, and he named
them vortices and wark; according to their
shape named he them.
4. By the power of rotation, swift driving
forth in the extreme parts, condense I the at­
mospherean worlds that float in the firma­
ment ; and these become My corporeal worlds.
In the midst of the vortices made I them, and
by the power of the vortices I turn them on
their axes, and carry them in the orbits I
allotted to them. Wider than to the moons of
a planet have I created the vortices, and they
carry the moons also.
5. Around about some of My corporeal
7
3 OAHSPE.
worlds have I given nebulous belts and rings,
that man might comprehend the rotation of
My vortexan worlds.
6. Eor each and every corporeal world
created I a vortex first, and by its rotation
and by the places in the firmament whither it
traveleth, caused I the vortex to conceive the
corporeal world.
7. A great vortex created I for the sun,
and, within this vortex and subject to it, made
I the vortices of many of the corporeal worlds.
The sun vortex I caused to rotate, and I gave
it power to carry other vortices within it.
According to their density and position are
they thus carried forth and around about the
sun.
8. Think not, 0 man, that I created the sky
a barren waste, and void of use. Even as
man in the corporeal form is adapted to the
corporeal earth, so is he in the spiritual form
adapted to My etherean worlds. Three great
estates have I bestowed on man : the corpo­
real, the atmospherean and the etherean.
CHAPTER IV.
M
AH perceived the general foundation of
the world, and he prayed that his eyes
might be opened for a sign in heaven; and
Jehovih answered him, saying:
2. The clouds in the air I bring into view
suddenly; by different currents of wind make
I thus the' unseen visible and tangible to
man’s senses. In like manner do I cause
etherean currents to bring forth a’ji and ji’ay,
and nebulae, prior to making corporeal worlds.
3. In all the universe have I made the un­
seen to rule over the seen. Let the formation
of the clouds stand in the view of man on
earth, that he may bear witness to the manner
of the unseen becoming seen.
4. Man perceived, and he prayed for a sign
of duration, and Jehovih answered him,
saying:
5. Behold the tree which hath sprung up
out of the ground and fulfilled its time; it
falleth and rotteth, and returneth to the earth.
But lo, the wind, which thou seest not, never
ceaseth to blow. Even so is the comparative
duration of all things. Think not, 0 man,
that corporeal things are annihilated because
they disappear; for as a drop of water evap-
orateth and riseth in the air as unseen vapor,
so do all corporeal things, even earth, and
stones, and gold, and silver, and lead, become
as nothing in the firmament of heaven in
course of time.
6. Things that man seeth, created I with a
beginning and an end; but the unseen I made
of endless duration.
7. The corporeal man made I belonging to
the seen; but the spiritual man made I as one
within the unseen, and everlasting.
8. As the corporeal man beholdeth corpo­
real things, so doth the spiritual man follow
upward the evaporated, corporeal entities of
things. As corporeal things are tangible to
corporeans, so are es things tangible to the
spirits of the dead.
9. As I cause water to rise upward as vapor,
and take a place in the air above, let it be a
sign and testimony of other places in atmos-
pherea w
rhereon dwell the spirits of the lower
heaven.
10. As I made a limit to the ascent of the
clouds, so made I a limit to the places of the
different kinds of substances in atmospherea;
the more subtle and potent to the extreme, and.
the more dense and impotent nearer to the
earth.
11. According to the condition of these dif­
ferent plateaux in atmospherea, whether they
be near the earth or high above, so shall the
spirit of man take its place in the first heaven;
according to his diet and desires and behavior
so shall he dwell in spirit on the plateau to
which he hath adapted himself during his
earth life.
12. For I made the power of attraction man­
ifest in all things before man’s eyes that he
might not err, that like should attract like
made I them.
13. Man sought to know the progress of
things. Jehovih answered him, saying:
14. Open thine eyes, 0 man ! There is a
time of childhood, a time of genesis, a time
of old age, and a time of death to all men.
Even so is it with all the corporeal worlds I
have created.
lo. First as vapor the vortex carrieth it
forth, and as it condenseth, its friction engen-
dereth heat, and it is molten, becoming as a
globe of fire in heaven. Then it taketh its
place as a new born world, and I set it in the
orbit prepared for it.
16. In the next age I bring it into se’mu,
for it is ripe for the bringing forth of living
creatures; and I bestow the vegetable and
animal kingdoms.
17. Next it entereth ho’tu, for it is past the
age of begetting, even as the living who are
B O O K OF JEH O VIH . 4
in dotage. Next it entereth a’du, and nothing
can generate upon it. Then cometh uz, and it
is spirited away into unseen realms. Thus
create I, and thus dissipate planets, suns,
moons and stars.
18. My examples are before all men. My
witnesses are without number. I raise the tree
up out of the ground; 1 give it a time to bring
forth fruit; and then barrenness, and then
death and dissolution. I prepare the new field
with rich soil, bringing forth; and the old field
that is exhausted, and man shall weigh the
progress and destiny of a whole world.
19. Let no man marvel because of the size
of the mammoth and the ichthyosaurus, for
there was a time for them as there is a time
for the infusoria of this day.
20. I have given thee a sign, 0 man, in the
queen of the honey bee; because of the change
of the cell cometh she forth a queen, even from
the same manner of germ as the other bees.
Be wise, therefore, and remember that the earth
is not in the place of the firmament as of old.
Let this be a testimony to thee of the growth,
the change and the travail of the earth.
21. Nevertheless, 0 man, the seen and the
unseen are but parts of My person; I am the
Unity of the whole.
CHAPTER Y.
M
AN perceived the magnitude and glory
of the corporeal worlds. He said, How
shall I speak of Thy great works, 0 Jehovih,
and of Thy wisdom and power! Shall I open
my mouth before Thee! I look upon Thy
countless stars, suns and moons, spread out
over the heavens! The millions of years Thou
hast driven them on in the never-ending firma­
ment ! Processions in and out, and round
about, of mighty worlds ! By Thy breath going
forth !
2. 0 Thou, All Highest! How shall I hide
my insignificance! I cannot create the small­
est thing alive ! Nay, nor change the color of
a hair on my head. What am I, that Thou
hast seen me ?
3. Tell me, 0 my Creator, whence came life ?
This unseen within me that is conscious of
being ? Tell me how all the living came into
life.
4. Jehovih heard the words of man, and He
answered him, saying: Let a sign be given to
man that he may comprehend se’mu. |
|There­
upon Jehovih caused the jelly-fish and the
green scum of water to be permanently coming
forth in all ages, that man might understand
the age of se’mu, when the earth and the
shores by the water, and the waters also, were
covered over with commingled atmosphere and
corporeal substance. And this substance was
called se’mu, because by Jehovih’s presence
quickened He it into life, and thus made He
all the living, both the vegetable and animal
worlds. Not that se’mu is jelly-fish or the
green scum of water; for the earth in this day
produceth not se’mu abundantly ; nevertheless
the jelly-fish and the green scum of water are
signs of that which was in that day of the
earth. |
|
5. Jehovih said: Because of My presence
quickened I into life all that live, or ever have
lived.
6. Because I am male and female, even in
My likeness, thus made I them. Because I
am the power to quicken into life, so, in like­
ness of Me thus, made I them, and with power
to bring forth.
7. According to their respective places
created I the living; not in pairs only, but
in hundreds of pairs and thousands, and in
millions.
8. According to their respective places and
the light upon se’mu, so quickened I them in
their color, adapted to their dwelling places.
9. Each and every living thing created I
new upon the earth, of a kind each to itself;
and not one living thing created I out of
another.
10. Let a sign be upon the earth, that man
in his darkness may not believe that one ani­
mal changeth and becometh another.
11. |Thereupon Jehovih gave permission
for different animals to bring forth a new liv­
ing animal, which should be unlike either its
mother or father, but he caused the new
product to be barren. |
|
12. Jehovih said: And this shall be testi­
mony before all men that I created each and
all the living, after their own kind only.
13. Such is My person and My spirit, being
from everlasting to everlasting; and when I
bring a new world into the time of se’mu, lo
and behold My presence quickeneth the sub­
stance into life ; according to the locality and
the surroundings, so do I bring forth the dif­
ferent species; for they are flesh of My flesh
and spirit of My spirit. To themselves give I
themselves; nevertheless, they are all members
of My Person.
14. As a testimony to man, behold the earth
9
5 OAHSPE.
was once a globe of liquid fire ! Nor was there
any seed thereon. But in due season I rained
down se’mu on the earth; and by virtue of My
presence quickened I into life all the living.
Without seed created I the life that is in
them.
CHAPTER VI.
HEN man comprehended the earth he
looked upward; and Jehovih saw him
and knew the desires of his soul. So Jehovih
sent His son Uz, and Uz spake; saying:
2. Hear me, 0 man; the mysteries of heaven
and earth will I clear up before thy judgment.
Thou art the highest, and comest to the chief-
est of all kingdoms; from Great Jehovih shalt
thou learn wisdom, and none shall gainsay
thee.
3. Bethink thee, 0 man, of the magnitude
of thy Father’s kingdoms and His places in
the firmament. Save I take thee into the
heavens above, thou canst not comprehend the
places thereof.
4. Man then rose up in spirit, and ascended
into the firmament, for his spirit had crystal­
lized into separateness; and Uz and Es as­
cended with him, speaking in the voice of
the Father. And man beheld that each and
everything in the firmament was orderly, and
still each to itself located. Then spake Es,
saying:
5. Behold, 0 m an! As a farmer soweth
corn in one place, and wheat in another, and
roots in another, and flax — everything in a
separate place; even so doth Jehovih store
the ingredients of which worlds are made —
everything in its place — the substance of the
iron in one place, the substance of the stones
in another, the substance of the vegetable
kingdom in another, and even so of the sub­
stance of the animal kingdom; and the oils
and sand; for He hath places in the firma­
ment of heaven for all of them. These that
thou sawest are the a’ji and the ji’ay and the
nebulae; and amidst them in places there is
se’mu also. Let no man say: Yonder is
hydrogen only, and yonder oxygen only. The
divisions of the substances of His creations
are not as man would make them. All the
elements are to be found not only in places
near at hand, but in distant places also.
6. When the Father driveth forth His worlds
in the heavens, they gather a sufficiency of all
things. So also eometh it to pass that when
a corporeal world is yet new and young it is
carried forth, not by random, but purposely, in
the regions suited to it. Hence there is a time'
for se’mu, a time for falling nebulae, to bury
deep the forests and se’muan beds, to provide
coal and manure for a time thereafter. So is
there a time when the earth passeth a region
in the firmament when sand and oil are rained
upon it and covered up, and gases bound and
sealed up for the coming generations of men.
7. And man said: I am ashamed in Thy
sight, O Jehovih ! I looked upward and said,
Behold the sky, it is nothing ! Then I said:
It is true, the corporeal worlds are made of
condensed nebulae ; but I saw not the wisdom
and glory of Thy works. I locked Thee up
in coincidences and happenings. Thy unseen
world hath become seen; the unreal hath
become the real.
8. 0 that I had been mindful of Thee ! 0
that I had not put Thee afar, nor imagined
laws and decrees. Teach Thou me, 0 Jeho­
vih ! How was the beginning of man ? How
was it with the first of the living that Thou
broughtest forth ?
9. Jehovih said: Have I not declared My­
self in the past; in My works have I not pro­
vided thousands of years in advance ? As I
have shown system in the corporeal worlds,
know thou, 0 man, that system prevaileth in
the firmament.
10. To the tree I gave life ; to man I gave
life and spirit also. And the spirit I made
was separate from the corporeal life.
11. Out of se’mu I made man, and man was
but as a tree, but dwelling in ha’k ; and I
called him Asu (Adam).
12. I looked over the wide heavens that I had
made, and I saw countless millions of spirits
of the dead, that had lived and died on other
corporeal worlds before the earth was made.
13. I spake in the firmament, and My voice
reached to the uttermost places. And there
came in answer to the sounds of My voice,
myriads of angels from the roadway in heaven,
where the earth traveleth. I said to them,
Behold! A new world have I created; come
ye and enjoy it. Yea, ye shall learn from it
how it was with other worlds in ages past.
14. There alighted upon the new earth mil­
lions of angels from heaven; but many of them
had never fulfilled a corporeal life, having died
in infancy, and these angels comprehended not
procreation nor corporeal life.
15. And I said, go and deliver Asu from
darkness, for he shall also rise in spirit to
inherit My etherean worlds.
BOOK OF JE H O V IH . 6
16. And now was the earth in the latter
days of se’mu, and the angels could readily
take on corporeal bodies for themselves; out
of the elements of the earth clothed they
themselves, by force of their wills, with flesh
and bones. By the side of the Asuans took
they on corporeal forms.
17. And I said: Go ye forth and partake of
all that is on the earth; but partake ye not of
the tree of life, lest in that labor ye become
procreators and as if dead to the heavens
whence ye came.
18. |
|But those who had never learned cor­
poreal things, being imperfect in wisdom, com­
prehended not Jehovih’s words, and they dwelt
with the Asuans, and were tempted, and par­
took of the fruit of the tree of life; and lo
and behold they saw their own nakedness.
And there was born of the first race (Asu) a
new race called man; and Jehovih took the
earth out of the travail of se’mu, and the angels
gave up their corporeal bodies. |
|
19. Jehovih said: Because ye have raised up
those that shall be joint heirs in heaven, ye
shall tread the earth with your feet, and walk
by the sides of the new born, being guardian
angels over them, for they are of your own
flesh and kin.
20. Fruit of your seed have I quickened
with My spirit, and man shall come forth with
a birth-right to My etherean worlds.
21. As I have quickened the seed of the
first born, so will I quicken all seed to the end
of the earth. And each and every man-child
and woman-child born into life will I quicken
with a new spirit, which shall proceed out of
Me at the time of conception. Neither will I
give to any spirit of the higher or lower heaven
power to enter a womb, or a fetus of a womb,
and be born again.
22. As the corporeal earth passeth away, so
shall pass away the first race Asu; but as I
pass not away, so shall not pass away the
spirit of man.
CHAPTER VII.
JEHOVIH said: Let a sign be given to the
inhabitants of the earth that they may
comprehend dan’ha in the firmament of heaven.
For even as I bequeathed to the earth a time
for creating the living, and a time for angels
to come and partake of the first fruits of mor­
tality and immortality, so shall man at certain
times and seasons receive testimony from My
hosts in heaven.
2. |
|And Jehovih caused the earth, and the
family of the sun to travel in an orbit, the cir­
cuit of which requireth of them four million
seven hundred thousand years. And he placed
in the line of the orbit, at distances of three
thousand years, etherean lights, the which
places, as the earth passeth through, angels
from the second heaven come into its corporeal
presence. As embassadors they come, in com­
panies of hundreds and thousands and tens of
thousands, and these are called the etherean
hosts of the Most High.
3. Not as single individuals come they; not
for a single individual mortal come they.
4. And Jehovih gave this sign to man on
earth; which is to say; In the beginning of
the light of dan’ha, the spirits of the newly
dead shall have power to take upon themselves
the semblance of corporeal bodies, and appear
and talk face to face with mortals. Every
three thousand years gave Jehovih this sign
on earth, that those who learned the powers
and capacities of such familiar spirits, might
bear testimony in regard to the origin of man
on earth. |
|
Jehovih said: And when it shall come to
pass in any of the times of dan’ha that these
signs are manifest, man shall know that the
hosts of the Most High come soon after. Let
him who will become wise, enumerate the great
lights of My serpent, for in such times I set
aside things that are old, and establish My
chosen anew.
5. |
|In the time of the earth, when man was
brought forth from mortal to immortal life,
the earth passed beyond se’mu and the angels
of heaven remained with corporeal man, but
not in the semblance of mortals, but as spirits;
and by virtue of their presence, strove to make
man wise and upright before Jehovih. Upon
the earth the number of such angels was
millions. To these angels spake Jehovih,
saying:
6. Behold the work ye have taken in hand!
It was commanded to you all, to partake of
all the fruits of the earth save of the fruit of
the tree of life, which is of the knowledge
of the earth and heaven, lest ye lose your
inheritance in etherea.
7. Behold, ye now have sons and daughters
on the earth; by your love to them are ye
become bound spirits of the lower heaven.
Until ye redeem them in wisdom and power
even to the sixth generation ye shall not again
arise and inherit My emancipated heavens.
8. To which end ye shall be co-workers with
11
7 OAHSPE.
one another in system and order. In My
name shall ye become an organic body and
known as the heaven of the earth, or lower
heaven, which shall travel with the earth.
9. And I will allot unto you a Chief, who is
wise in experience in founding heavenly king­
doms ; and he shall appoint, from amongst you,
officers, and messengers, and ashars, and asaphs,
and es’enaurs, and ye shall be numbered and
apportioned unto your labor and places like
unto My other lower heavens on other worlds.
10. And he who is Chief shall be called G-od
of this heaven and the earth, unto his making
bestow I them.
11. And God shall have a Council and throne
within his heavenly city; and the place shall
be called Hored, because it is the first kingdom
of God in this firmament.
12. And God shall rule on his throne, for it
is his; and his Council shall rule with him ; in
My name shall they have dominion over angels
and mortals belonging to the earth.
13. And God shall appoint Chiefs under him
who shall go down and dwell on the earth
with mortals; and such Chiefs’ labor shall
be with mortals for their resurrection. And
these Chiefs shall be called Lords, for they
are Gods of land, which is the lowest rank of
My commissioned Gods.
14. And God and his Lords shall have do­
minion from two hundred years to a thousand
or more years; but never more than three
thousand years. According to the regions of
dan (light) into which I bring the earth, so
shall be the terms of the office of My Gods
and My Lords.
15. And God and his Lords shall raise up
officers to be their successors; by him and
them shall they be appointed and crowned in
My name.
16. At the termination of the dominion of
My God and his Lords they shall gather to­
gether in these My bound heavens, all such
angels as have been prepared in wisdom and
strength for resurrection to My etherean king­
doms. And these angels shall be called Brides
and Bridegrooms to Jehovih, for they are
Mine and in My service.
17. And to God and his Lords, with the
Brides and Bridegrooms, will I send down
from etherea ships in the time of dan; by My
etherean Gods and Goddesses shall the ships
descend to these heavens, and receive God and
his Lords with the Brides and Bridegrooms,
and carry them up to the exalted regions I
have prepared for them.
18. And all such as ascend shall be called
a Harvest unto Me through My God and
Lords. And the time of My Harvests shall
be according to each dan, which is two hundred
years, four hundred years, six hundred years,
and five hundred years; and these shall be
called My lesser cycles, because they are the
times of the tables of prophecy which I give
unto My servants.
19. But at no other times, nor in any other
way, shall My Harvests ascend to My emanci­
pated worlds in etherea. Seven dans have I
created for each and every clan’ha; and six gen­
erations of mortals have I given unto each dan.
20. ]
|The angels understood the command­
ments of Jehovih according to their knowledge
in the etherean heavens ; being heirs of other
planets, and having died in infancy, and having
matured in the es worlds; but they under­
stood not the Creator according to the practice
of the lower heavenly kingdoms. Wherefore
their knowledge was incomplete. |
|
21. Jehovih said : I condemn ye not because
ye have become joint procreators with the
asuans; for ye have done two services unto
M e; which are to teach yourselves corporeal
things, that ye may understand and sympathize
with corporeans, and, secondly, because ye have
caused the earth to become peopled with such
as are capable of immortality.
22. Behold ye now what shall happen on
the earth: such as are of your flesh and kin
who cohabit together shall rise in wisdom and
virtue; but such of them as cohabit with the
asuans will bring forth heirs in the descending
grade of life. The first shall bring forth heirs
unto everlasting life ; but the second shall
bring forth heirs that shall go out in darkness.
23. In the dominion of which matters your
God and Lords will instruct you, that ye may,
by inspiration and otherwise, learn to control
the behavior of mortals unto everlasting life.
And that these labors be not too severe upon
you, I created the dans and dan’has in the
firmament, wherein ye may be relieved from
the watch by other angels from other worlds
coming to exchange with you.
24. This also do I put upon you: That to
rule over mortals to virtue, by your own wills
governing them in all things, is contrary to My
commandments. For what honor hath any
man if made to do a thing ?
25. But ye shall give mortals of My light,
leaving them to choose. Better it is for them
to suffer some than to grow up in ignorance of
the stings of disobedience.
BOOK OF J E H O V IH . 8
26. Behold, I make this a willing service on
your part: because ye have bound your affec­
tions on the earth, to your own kin, ye willingly
become guardian angels over mortals. Yet I
made not a separate law unto you; as it is
with you, so shall it be with the spirits of
these mortals when they are born into the es
world: They will also desire to become guar­
dian angels over their mortal kin.
27. But these spirits, never having known
My higher heavens, will be unsuitable for the
office of ashars; they would be but the blind
leading the blind.
28. To prevent which, God and the Lords
shall provide these spirits in the first resur­
rection with places to dwell in ; and with
occupations and opportunities for education.
For I desire them not to remain bound to the
earth, but to rise up and inherit My etherean
kingdoms.
29. And in this also shall ye be discreet in
governing them, giving them the light of My
heavens with some liberty to choose and to
perfect themselves. Otherwise they would
only be slaves in heaven. According to their
weakness or strength, so shall ye provide for
these new spirits entering My es world.
30. Therefore such of you as are appointed
by My God and My Lords as guardians over
mortals shall be called A sh ar s, and ye shall
report to your respective Lords, according to
the section of the earth where ye may be.
Of many watches shall be the ashars.
31. And such of you as are appointed to
receive the spirits of the dead into heaven
shall be called A saphs, and ye shall report to
your respective Lords and their kingdoms.
32. And the ashars shall make a record of
every mortal, of the grade of his wisdom and
good works; and when a mortal dieth, and his
spirit is delivered to the asaphs, the record
shall be delivered with him ; and the asaph,
receiving, shall deliver such spirit, with the
record into such place in these heavens as is
adapted to his grade, where he shall be put to
labor and to school, according to the place of
the resurrections which I created.
33. As ye shall thus become organic in
heaven, with rulers, and teachers, and physi­
cians ; and with capitals, and cities, and prov­
inces ; and with hospitals, and nurseries, and
schools, and factories, even so shall ye ulti­
mately inspire man on the earth to the same
things.
34. And mortals that are raised up to
dominion over mortals shall be called kings
and emperors. As My Gods and My Lords are
called My Sons, so shall kings and emperors
be called sons of God ; through him shall they
be raised up to their places, and given domin­
ion unto My glory.
CHAPTER VIII.
JEHOVIH said: And God shall cause a
record to be kept in heaven, of his domin­
ions and his Lords. And he and they shall
enjoin it upon their successors forever to keep
a like record.
2. And in the times of My harvest a copy
of these records shall be taken up to My
etherean kingdoms and filed with My Orian
Chiefs and Archangels in the roadway of the
travel of the great serpent,1 for their deliber­
ations as to the progress and management of
the inhabitants of the earth and her heavens.
3. Think not, 0 ye angels, that the resurree-
tion of your heirs, and their descendants that
come up out of the earth, is an easy matter
and of steady progress, devoid of mishaps and
woeful darkness.
4. The angels under you shall become at
times rebellious and defiant; disregarding
your laws and decrees; and they shall desert
your heavenly places and go down to the earth
in millions and. hundreds of millions. And
they shall drive away the ashars, and then
assume guardianship over mortals. But they
shall develop no righteousness under the sun,
but they will inspire mortals to war and de­
struction. And these angels will themselves
take to war and evil on every hand within the
place of your heavens.
5. With the foul gases of atmospherea shall
they make weapons of war and places of tor­
ment. With these elements shall they make
suffocating hells in order to cast one another
in chaos.
6. And mortals who shall be slain in war,
shall be born in spirit in chaos on the battle­
fields ; in chaos shall such spirits enter the es
world. And they shall not know that they
are dead, (as to earth life,) but shall still keep
fighting right and left.
7. And enemy shall take enemy, in these
heavens, and cast them in the places of tor­
ment which they shall have built, and they
shall not know peace nor wisdom.
8. And the work of your heavens shall
become as nothing. And ye shall turn to,
going about delivering hells and the spirits
9 OAHSPE.
in chaos. And your labor shall be exhaustive;
verily shall you cry out because ye came and
peopled the earth.
9. This also have I created possible unto
My creations; for both angels and mortals
shall learn to know the elements of the heav­
ens and the earth, and to know the trials of
love and misfortune.
10. Nor have I made wisdom possible unto
any man or angel that knoweth not My ele­
ments, and the extremes of evil and good which
I created.
11. But in the times of great darkness which
shall come upon earth and these heavens, lo,
I will bring the earth into dan’ha; and My
ethereans shall come in My name and deliver
them.
12. And again for another cycle shall they
be left with the lessons given unto them; but
they shall fall again in course of time. But
again will I deliver them; through My Gods
and Goddesses will I cause them to compre­
hend the magnitude of My creation.
13. As ye travel from heaven to heaven in
atmospherea.n ships, even so shall ye inspire
mortals to huild corporeal ships, and sail across
the oceans, rliat the inhabitants of different
divisions of the earth may become known to
one another.
14. And when the inhabitation of the earth
shall be completed, and the nations shall have
established civil communion around from east
to west, in that same time will I bring the
earth into the kosmon era, and My angel ambas­
sadors, Gods and Goddesses, shall render up
the records of these heavenly kingdoms.
15. Through them will I reveal unto mortals
the creation of My worlds, and the history and
dominion of My Gods and Lords on the earth,
even from this day down to the time of kos­
mon.
16. |
|And Jehovih caused the angels of
atmospherea to assemble together and organize
the first kingdom of the heaven of the earth.
And the place was called Hored, because it was
the place of the first organic abiding place for
the first God of this world.
17. And Hored was situated over and above
the mountains of Aotan in Ughoqui, to the
eastward of Ul, of that country hereinafter
called the contineut of Pan. |
|
18. Thus endeth the inorganic habitation of
the earth and her atmospherea.
END OF BOOK OF JE H O V IH .
* The words Great Serpent mean solars phalanx. See illustrations in Book of Ben, and Saphab.
THE BOOK OF JUDGMENT.
BEING THE GRADES AND RATES OF MORTALS AND ANGELS IN THE LIGHT OF
GOD, AS THE WORD CAME TO ES, DAUGHTER OF JEHOVIII.
CHAPTER I.
T
HESE are the words of Judgment by the
will of God, Jehovih’s Son, as rendered
by Es, for the resurrection of man :
2. Hear the words of thy God, 0 man ! I
am thy elder brother of tens of thousands of
years’ experience. Profit thou in my wisdom,
and learn the discourse of thy God.
3. Jehovih, Creator of all things, spake to
me, thy God, saying: Give ear unto Me, 0
God, My embassador of the earth and her
heavens for this thy season. Obey My man­
dates, and teach mortals and the angels of thy
lower heavens to know Me and to rejoice in
My creations. The time is now come when
the light of thy inspiration and thy angels
shall extend around the whole earth and in her
heavens also.
4. In all former cycles, My Gods had to deal
with separate divisions of the earth; My reve­
lations were unto each, for a special time,
which is now at hand. I have prepared this
land untrammeled with Gods and Saviors and
Lords, enforced by the sword, so that My
revelations of this day shall be published and not
suppressed. And thou shalt reveal to mortals
the plan of My worlds ; and, as to who thou art,
and the method of thy inspiration and domin­
ion on the earth and her heavenly kingdoms.
5. Thou shalt keep open the gates of heaven
for a season, and the spirits of the dead shall
commune with mortals, good and evil, wise
and foolish. And mortals shall see them, and
talk with them, face to face; and they shall
recognize their own kin, sons and daughters,
fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters, the
dead and the living.
6. And the angels shall demonstrate the
subtlety of corporeal things, and the capacity
of one solid to pass through another solid
uninjured.
7. Yea, the angels shall bring from great
distances heavy substances, and cast them
down in the presence of mortals, who shall see
these things done, and testify thereto.
8. And man shall understand, that, even as
plants and trees and hsh and serpents can be
wielded by My angels, so also can virus and
pestilence be carried by angels of darkness to
cast mortals in death.
9. And thou shalt suffer evil spirits and all
manner of drujas, and vampires and engrafters,
to come, and manifest unto mortals, that they
may know whereof My revelations unfold the
matters of earth and heaven.
10. For man shall understand what I mean
by the words : As ye live on the earth, so shall
ye reap in heaven.
11. And thou shalt suffer to fall in darkness
such mortals, as consult the angels in regard
to riches, or to marriage, or to self, or for
curiosity, or frivolity, or for anything of an
earthly nature for profit’s sake. They shall
prosper for a season, but end in being con­
fronted with folly and falsehood.
12. And whoso asketh for the spirits of
great men, suffer ye him to be deceived by
drujas and all manner of lying spirits.
13. And whoso asketh of the sar’gis for
great men, or for Moses, or Jesus, or Kriste,
or for any well-known name, as applied to
ancient times, suffer him to be answered by
evil spirits and deceivers.
14. Whoso desireth the angels for profit’s
sake, and he have power in sar’gis, give unto
him a band of drujas and vampires, and give
them great power in signs and miracles.
15. And whoso consulteth the angels, with­
out regard to becoming a better man himself,
suffer him also to become captive to lying
spirits.
16. And to all men, that feed on fish or
-flesh, suffer thou vampires to inhabit them.
753
2 OAHSPE.
17. And to such as drink to drunkenness,
and smoke or take narcotics, suffer thou fetals
and engrafters to come upon them.
18. And in fainilies, whose heirs are born
from parents, wed for earthly considerations,
suffer thoir spirits of obsession to enter ami
drive them mad.
19. For they shall be made to know the
meaning of the word, hell, as applied to the
lower heavens.
20. And to whomsoever worshippeth Gods
or Saviors because of miracles, give thou them
plentifully of miracles and signs through un­
clean spirits, and through mortal sar’gis
(mediums), of low grade. Yea, thou shalt
let spirits of darkness assume to be these very
Gods, that mortals may be made to know what
manner of evil spirits dwell in their churches
and temples.
21. And to the rich man, who maketh pre­
tence to righteousness, but who doeth not
toward the poor as to himself, give thou him
a host of spirits of hypocrisy and lying, that
he may realize the company he is preparing
his own spirit for in heaven.
22. Give thou signs and miracles to the
unclean seer as well as to the clean ; to the liar
and deceiver, as well as to the truthful man.
23. For I will destroy the worship of all
Gods and Lords and Saviors on the ground of
miracles.
24. And thou shalt take great liars, and
give them lying spirits to speak through them
by inspiration and entrancement. And these
spirits shall profess the names of great persons
long since dead. And they shall manifest
great oratory and wisdom and truth; but,
nevertheless, their preaching shall be of little
avail for righteousness’ sake, or for good works.
25. And their applauding audiences will not
contribute to the poor, nor found any improve­
ment on the doctrines of the ancients.
26. For the spirits, who speak through them,
shall be the first resurrection, and know not
Me nor the higher kingdoms. Verily shall
they be of the same order as the spirits who
minister in the churches and temples, being
such spirits as have not yet been delivered up
from the earth.
27. And some shall say : Hear thou me, for
I am G od! Some shall say: Hear thou me,
for I am the L ord! Some shall say: Hear
thou me, for I am Jehovih ! And others shall
profess the names of mortals who had great
power on the earth. Suffer thou them to do
these things.
28. For I will make man understand that he
shall accept nothing from angels or men because
of the name professed. On the merit only of
wisdom and truth, and such good doctrines as
raise men up out of darkness and poverty and
crime, shall they accept either spoken or writ­
ten words.
29. And they shall try to organize to carry
out good works, but they shall fail. For many
will desire to be leaders, being under the influ­
ence of selfish considerations, desiring the
applause of men.
30. And they will profess freedom, but they
will not pledge themselves to any sacrifice,
either of money or opinion for sake of the pub­
lic good.
31. And little good shall come out of their
works, and even less peace of soul shall come
unto them. For they shall dispute and quarrel,
being divided in all their ideas and philoso­
phies and sentiments and in their understand­
ing of My kingdoms.
32. For, by this means, shalt thou show
them they are under the inspiration of the un­
organized es world; and of spirits who have
not yet entered into My resurrections, which 1
created for them. But in the time of the light
of My revelations, thou shalt raise up a few,
here and there, capable of the All Light. And
these, thou shalt cause to form a basis for My
kingdom on earth.
33. And they shall forswear all Gods and
Lords and Saviors, but profess Me, the Great
Spirit, Jehovih.
34. And they shall pledge themselves unto
one another in fullness, as brothers and sisters,
holding their possessions in common.
35. To live for sake of perfecting themselves
and others in spirit, and for good works.
36. They shall eat not fish nor flesh of any
creature that breathed the breath of life.
37. And keep the seventh day as a day of
communion with Me and My angel hosts.
38. With rites and ceremonies explanatory
of all the doctrines in the world.
39. Practicing good for evil; non-resistance
to persecution and abuse.
40. And abjure war; even, if necessary,
by submitting to death rather than take part
therein.
41. And they shall become an organic body
in communities of tens and twenties and hun­
dreds and thousands.
42. But they shall have no leaders, only
their Creator; but be organic, for sake of good
works.
754
THE BOOK OE JU D G M E NT. 5
43. But they shall not go about preaching for
sinners to go to repentance.
44. Nor preaching for charity to the poor.
45. But they shall go themselves about gath­
ering up sinners, and the poor and helpless
and orphans; and bring them into comfortable
homes, teaching them how to live, to be a glory
unto Me and My kingdoms.
46. To such persons shall My angels from
the second resurrection come, and minister in
My name for the joy of the earth.
47. And when such people die, they shall
be received into the second resurrection, escap­
ing the first.
48. Neither shall any other people in all the
world escape the place of the first resurrec­
tion.
49. Be they kings, or queens, or beggars, or
Brahmans, or Budhists, or Kriste’yans, or Mo­
hammedans, or any other pretenders in heaven
or earth.
50. Behold, the day of preaching and pro­
fessions is at an end. I will have practice
only.
51. Whoso is not in My organic kingdoms on
earth, shall go into My inorganic kingdoms in
heaven.
52. Like unto like, created I the heavens and
the earth, and all things therein.
CHAPTEB II.
OD, embassador of Jehovih, saith: Ye
shall assemble for the communion of an­
gels, regularly, and maintain intercourse with
them. For in no other way can ye demonstrate
the continued life of the Spirit.
2. Doing this in the name of Jehovih, and
for spiritual li^ht in regard to spiritual things.
3. Whoso consulteth the spirits for earthly
things shall fall in darkness.
4. But when ye assemble, let no man nor
spirit be as a spectator to others. But as all
men labor in the field to gather the harvest, so
shall all members in the assembly, by prayer
or by music, contribute a glory unto the Father.
5. Kemembering that the humblest prayer,
even with weak words, if given with a full
heart, is as strong unto Jehovih as the best
oratory.
6. From all men the spirit shall pour forth
unto the Father in praise, according to what
hath been created unto it. Neither is more
required of any man.
7. But this shall happen unto many : Learn­
ing to speak by entrancement or by inspiration,
they shall imagine themselves controlled by
certain angels, when, in fact, it is only their
own spirit, eliminated from the corporeal
senses.
8. Others, being influenced, shall imagine it
is themselves and not an ajigel, whereas it is
an angel speaking through them. This was
the case o f Ka’yu [Confucius — E d .]. Both
are good, and shall be practiced.
9. Let no man concern himself as to whethei
it be the spirit of himself or an angel; for it is
only the subject uttered which is of value. In
this day, all things shall stand on their own
merit, and not on a supposed authority.
10. And let not him, who speaketh with his
own spirit, judge others to be the same; nor
yet the reverse of this; for no two in all the
world are alike.
11. To them that have not experienced
elimination of the spirit-self from the corporeal
self (trance), all speech is believed to be of
the corporeal senses only, or of a diseased con­
dition. Such men are not to be blamed for
their interpretation ; rather shall ye pity them,
and not answer them.
12. For many such, even after death, will
not admit they are dead, because of the dark­
ness upon them.
13. It is wiser for the spiritual-minded to
keep to themselves, especially when commun­
ing with Jehovih and His angels. For a
greater wonder than these will follow : Some
will enter the trance of the first resurrection,
and go in spirit out of the body, but only sub­
jectively; others will enter the trance of the
second resurrection, and go in spirit out of the
body objectively. And the first shall not be­
lieve but the second was like himself, going
only subjectively. No two men in all the
world have I created alike, saitk Jehovih.
Even many, after death, are not capable of
entering the second resurrection objectively.
He, that is in subjective state, speaketh and
writeth from the earth, looking upward; he,
that cometh of the objective heavens, speaketh
and writeth as one come down from My king­
doms to the earth.
14. Two conditions will manifest: Subjec­
tive spiritualists will affiliate with the world’s
people, being deniers of the Ever Present Per­
son, and they will pursue earthly vocations
for self sake; but objective spiritualists will
be Faithists, believers in the Ever Present Per­
son, Jehovih, Whom they will worship not only
in words, but by abjuring self, and uniting
4 OAHSPE.
themselves in brotherhoods, for sake of doing
good unto others. These latter are the chosen
people of the Father of the kosmon era, and
they will become supreme in all the world.
15. These three peoples, the world’s people,
the believers and the Paithists, have been in
all ages of the world. The latter only of them
all practiceth harmony and good works. Both
of the others are resistants, quarrelers and
warriors and disintegrators and breakers-down
of all things.
16. Yet, the Faithists, having faith in the
All Person, shall ultimately possess the whole
earth, and make it a paradise of peace and love.
17. As the first is bound in the flesh, and as
the second is bound by the hadan spirits, so is
the Faithist bound unto Jehovih, which is
emancipation. As the second can commune
with the spirits of the first resurrection, so can
the Faithist commune with the Father through
the second resurrection.
18. Nevertheless, this shall happen: The
second shall say: My angels are high, thine
are low ! Or they shall ask: How know ye
your light is higher than ours ?
19. And the Faithists shall answer them,
saying: We know no high, no low. We give
up all things, in order to serve Jehovih by
doing good works unto our fellows.
20. And Jehovih shall judge betwixt them,
as to which is high or low ; not by their words,
but by their works.
21. And the signs of good works and self-
abnegation shall he as a witness before the
world; whence cometh the inspiration of each.
22. Let no man say, that only seers and
prophets and such persons as work signs and
miracles are under the influence of spirits; for
even as much as these, so are other mortals
under the dominion of spirits. Yea, the infidel,
the disbeliever, the philosopher, the lawyer, the
judge, the preacher, the fanatic, and all others,
are more controlled by the spirits of the dead
than by their own personal spirit. And the
more a man’s spirit is wrapped up in his own
corporeality, the more is he subject to vampires
and spirits of darkness.
23. Neither knoweth the philosopher whether
his ideas come from Jehovih or from the spirits
of the dead.
24. Whosoever hath witnessed and knoweth
of a truth, that he hath seen the spirits of the
dead, that knowledge is impregnable. And
whoso hath entered the second resurrection,
even though in mortality, that knowledge is
impregnable.
25. But, whoso hath found the All Person,
his knowledge is greater than all. And none
below him can judge him. Neither can any
man attain to this knowledge, till he hath
passed through the other two conditions.
26. No man knoweth the Creator, unless he
hath proven the communion of spirits. Neither
can any man rise to the second resurrection, till
he hath arisen to faith in the All One, Jehovih.
27. Neither shall the Brahman, nor Moham­
medan, nor Budhist, nor Kriste’yan join in the
second resurrection [communities— E d .] on
earth or in heaven.
28. For they have not the doctrine of unit;
they are as a house divided against itself. Their
colonies and communities shall fail in all cases.
29. There shall be but one doctrine, which is
Jehovih, the All Person, who is Ever Present;
with good works done unto others, with all of
one’s wisdom and strength.
30. And this shall prevail with the young;
whom, as orphans and castaways, ye shall
gather up in infancy, founding them in the
light of Jehovih, teaching them from the start
to sing and pray unto Him, in reverence and
fear and joy, that He may be glorified in their
purity and good works.
31. And they shall grow up of all national­
ities, and races, knowing not: This is mine, or
that is mine, or that is thine, but understand­
ing, that they own nothing, and that all things
are Jehovih’s.
CHAPTER HI.
TH E JU D GM EN T U PON THE B R A H M A N S, THE BU D -
H ISTS, TH E K R IS T e ’ y AN S, TH E M OH AM M EDAN S,
TH E CON FU CIAN S, THE JEW S A N D A LL OTHER
PEOPLES ON E A R T H , IN THE W ORDS OF GOD.
T
HINK not, 0 man, that I aift insufficient to
the times and seasons. Or say thou that
God spake in the dark days of the earth, but
latterly holdeth his tongue.
2. Behold, I am thy elder brother, even as
a captain of the earth and her heavens for a
season. As I am, even so were my predecessors
in the time of the ancients :
3. Embassadors of the most high, Jehovih!
4. Whose power and wisdom are given unto
me, even after the same manner as are thy
earthly kingdoms governed and disciplined.
5. Whereby order may contribute to the
resurrection of all of His created beings.
6. First, I charge thee that whoso saith:
G od, G od ! calleth in vain.
7. I am not come to establish, but to abolish
756
THE BOOK OF JU D G M ENT. 5
all Gods and Lords and Saviors amongst mor­
tals.
S. For what is past, is past.
9. But whosoever, henceforth, heareth my
word and the decree of my commandment, and
continueth to make an idol of any name, save
the Great Spirit, blasphemeth against his
Creator.
10. But whoso crieth out in fullness of heart,
saying : G od, G od ! meaning thereby the Ever
Present, the Creator, is not a blasphemer before
me.
11. And whoso saith: Or m a zd , Or m a zd !
meaning the Ever Present, the Creator, is not
a blasphemer before me.
12. And whoso calleth any name in any lan­
guage that signifieth the Ever Present, the
Creator, is not a blasphemer before me.
13. B ut whoso saith: B r a h m a , B r a h m a !
signifying a God in figure and shape of a man,
sitting on a throne in heaven, is a blasphemer
against Jehovih, the EverPresent, the Creator.
14. And whoso saith: B u d h a , B u d h a ! sig­
nifying a God in figure and shape of a man,
sitting on a throne in heaven, is a blasphemer
against Jehovih, the Ever Present, the Cre­
ator.
15. And whoso saith: K r iste , K r iste ! sig­
nifying a God in the figure and shape of a
man, sitting on a throne in heaven, is a blas­
phemer against Jehovih, the Creator, the All
Person.
16. And whoso calleth on the name of any
other man or angel, worshipping such as a
God, is an idolater in my sight.
17. Nor do I judge them less idolatrous than
though they worshipped stone idols or graven
images.
18. And whosoever saith: D e it y , D e it y !
and D iv in it y , D iv in it y ! and D iv in e l a w and
n a t u r a l l a w , are adjudged in darkness.
19. For I proclaim my heavens open, and
the way of understanding clear.
20. Jehovih is Ever Present, and doeth by
virtue of His Presence, and not by any law.
21. And whoso saith that which will lead
men to believe He is not Present, or that He
hath gone away, leaving certain laws after
Him in His stead, the same is adjudged a blas­
phemer against Jehovih.
22. And w hoso sa ith : Call tiiou on this
Sa v io r , or call thou on t h a t Sa v io r , an d
T IIY SINS SH A LL BE FO R G IV E N THEE ; A N D , IN
THE H OU R OF T H Y D EATH , BECAUSE THOU HAST
SO CALLED ON H IM , THOU SH ALT ASCEND INTO
A h e a v e n l y p a r a d is e , the same is a falsifier
of my kingdoms and a blasphemer against Je­
hovih.
23. And whoso saith: Come t h o u b e f o r e
TH E CHURCH, A N D BEFO RE TH E P R IE S T , A N D
M A K E P R A Y E R S A N D CONFESSIONS, A N D THOU
SH ALT BE ABSOLVED A N D FO R G IV E N T H Y SINS,
the same are falsifiers of my kingdoms and
blasphemers against Jehovih, the Creator.
24. Nor have I provided resurrection in this
world, nor in my heavens above, save by good
works done unto others ; and this is serving
Jehovih, the All Person; and not because of
any worship or confessions done before any of
the idols on earth or in heaven.
25. Nor is there any redemption in heaven
to the Brahmans, nor to the Budhists, nor to
the Kriste’yans, because of their prayers and
confessions.
26. But wherein good works have resulted in
affiliation; and in lifting the people up out of
misery and crime, the same is adjudged as wor­
ship of the Great Spirit, Jehovih.
27. Wherein the Brahmans have suffered a
people to fall from knowledge into ignorance,
or from virtue into vice, my judgment is against
them.
28. Wherein the Budhists have suffered a
people to fall from knowledge into ignorance,
or from virtue into vice, my judgment is
against them.
29. Wherein the Ka’yuans [Confucians —
E d .] have suffered a people to fall from knowl­
edge into ignorance, or from virtue into vice,
my judgment is against them.
30. Wherein the Kriste’yans have suffered a
people to fall from knowledge into ignorance,
or from virtue into vice, my judgment is
against them.
31. Wherein the Mohammedans have suffered
a people to fall from knowledge into ignorance,
or from virtue into vice, my judgment is against
them.
32. Where beggary and vagrancy and all
manner of darkness have increased in any of
the cities or countries of any of these idola­
ters, my judgment is against them.
33. They shall not excuse themselves, nor
escape my judgment, by saying: 0 the true
Brahman, or the true Budidst, or the true
Mohammedan hath not fallen. These, that
fell, were such as embraced not our doctrine in
fullness of heart. |
|
34. Because my judgment is also against
impotency. They have tried their respective
religions hundreds of years. And they have
not raised up one city of righteous people.
6 OAHSPE.
35. Wherefore, I have come to put these
doctrines away, and give them that which shall
prove itself potent in all the world.
36. That, which I proclaim, shall be pro­
claimed by the angels of the second resurrec­
tion, unto all nations and peoples.
37. My light is not to one people only, save
to the righteous, who serve the Creator by
doing good unto all men. In my sight, the
nations of the divisions of the earth are as
one people only, brothers and sisters.
38. I take from all of them their idols, their
Gods; but I give them a greater, even the Cre­
ator.
39. I say to them: I suffered my children to
have idols; but now, that ye are men, put
away your idols, and accept Jehovih, Who is
the Creator of all.
40. Nor shall any man more say : I worship
the Brahman principle, or the Budhist princi­
ple, or the Ka’yuan principle, or the Kriste’yan
principle, or the Mohammedan principle. For
all of these have proved themselves to result
in war and destruction.
41. None of them have faith in Jehovih, but
faith in their armies of soldiers, and in their
■weapons of death.
42. But I give unto all people one principle
only, which is to serve Jehovih. This is broad
enough for the redemption and resurrection of
all men. And I will have none other.
43. Seek, thou, 0 man, to believe in the All
Person, Who is Ever Present, Whose eye is
upon thee, Whose ear heareth thee; for He is
the All One, Who is the password to the high­
est of heavens.
44. And thou mayest call on thy idol at the
gates of my heavens, but the gates shall not be
opened unto thee. Eor I will have no quarrel
in my exalted kingdoms in heaven as to Gods
and Lords and Saviors.
45. Till thou art washed clean of them;
coming in spotless white, a servant of the Most
High, thou canst not withstand the light of my
kingdoms in heaven.
46. But thou shalt return in spirit to the
earth, and abide in the church and temple of
thy chosen God, wandering about, in stubborn­
ness of heart, a prey to drujas and vampires
and other angels of darkness.
47. Have faith, 0 man, in Him, Who created
thee alive, about Him there can be no mistake.
Glorify Him by righteous 'works, having faith,
that even as He brought thee into life, so will
He provide unto thee, according to thy just
deserts.
CHAPTER IY.
TH E N UM BERS OF TH E JU D G M E N T, IN TH E
W ORDS OF GOD.
H
EAR the words of thy God, 0 man; I am
thy elder brother, the captain of heaven
and earth.
2. Wherefore, declare I unto thee in this
day, the same shall be testified to by millions
of angels unto mortals ere one generation pass
away.
3. Of Brahman angels in the lowest of
heavens, as wanderers on the earth, there are
this day more than four thousand million.
4. Of Budhist angels in the lowest of heavens,
as wanderers on the earth, there are this day
more than seven thousand million.
5. Of Ka’yuan angels in the lowest heavens,
as wanderers on the earth, there are this day
more than three thousand million.
6. Of Kriste’yan angels in the lowest heavens,
as wanderers on the earth, there are this day
more than three thousand million.
7. Of Mohammedan angels in the lowest
heavens, as wanderers on the earth, there are
this day more than two thousand million.
8. Of Jewish angels in the lowest heavens,
as wanderers on the earth, there are this day
more than thirty million.
9. And of other angels, idolatrous and other­
wise, even on the earth, more than twelve thou­
sand million.
10. And of all these angels not one is above
grade five, in the first resurrection.
11. But of such as are below grade one,
there are more than six thousand million, being
mostly such angels as know nothing more than
babes, though, for the most part, they were full-
grown adults as to earth-life. Some are fetals,
some engrafters (professional re-incarnators),
who dwell with one mortal during his life-time,
and then engraft themselves on another mortal
during his life-time, and so on, calling them­
selves re-incarnated, and, in fact, knowing no
other heavens, being disbelievers in the All
Person and in my exalted kingdoms.
12. Such as are below grade one, thy God
hath classed as drujas, being spirits that have
not left the earth and are bound to mortals.
13. They inhabit mostly the oldest cities,
and places of filth and indecency ; nevertheless,
they also inhabit the palaces of kings and
queens and emperors and popes and priests and
rich men.
14. Of grade one, there are hundreds of mill­
ions of angels strolling about on the earth,
THE BOOK OF J U D G M E N T . 7
crying out: I want to go to Brahma, I want to
go to Budha, I want to go to Jesus, I want to
go to Kriste.
15. And I send my hosts of high-raised angels
to them, saying: Come ye to the kingdoms of
Jehovih, and be clothed and fed, and learn to
clothe and feed others, for this is the way of
resurrection.
16. But they will not believe, but turn away
in stubbornness of heart, even as ye of the
earth, saying: Nay, I will rise only by prayers
and confessions. I want to be changed in a
moment, in the twinkling of an eye, and rise
and sit on the right hand of God.
17. And there are hundreds of millions who,
being dead, know not anything; but, through
belief in a judgment day, went to sleep, and
are waiting for the trumpet of Gabriel to call
them forth.
18. And I send my exalted ones to them to
awake them up, and call them u p ; but they are
drunk with their faith, and they relapse again
and again, for years and years, for hundreds of
years!
19. Fulfilling Jehovih’s mandate, that what­
soever is bound on earth shall be bound in
heaven.
20. And, even as one drunken man on earth
enticeth another to drunkenness, so are there
hundreds of millions of idolatrous angels, who
return to mortals and persuade them to their
same doctrines and to their same debaucheries.
21. Hear the words of thy God, 0 man, and
be wise in thy judgment: He Who created
thee alive, gave to thee of His Own Being. Be
thou steadfast unto Him, and thou shalt not
err, but eliminate thyself from the chance of
error.
22. He alone is unmistakably thy sure foun­
dation, in Whom thou shalt not be tripped up.
23. Sufficient unto thee and thy resurrection
is thy Creator. Wherefore, in thy soul thou
shalt abjure all Gods and Lords and Saviors.
24. Neither shaft thou try to exalt His name
by adding thereunto any name in the shape
and figure of man, nor by any one of woman
born.
25. Seek thou to attain to His voice in all
things, and to obey Him for righteousness’
sake. Be not stubborn in thy conceit.
26. In thy singleness of purpose thou shalt
be ministered unto by the spirits of the first
resurrection; but, as thou unitest thyself in a
brotherhood on earth, in the name of Jehovih,
so shalt thou be ministered unto by the light
of my second resurrection.
27. But it hath been proved, and it shall be
proved again, that all brotherhoods on earth
founded on any of the idols in heaven, shall
not stand.
28. Because, there is no second resurrection
to minister unto them.
29. And all societies and constitutions and
by-laws founded by men, not capable of the
second resurrection, shall fail.
30. But whosoe\ er establisheth, in the second
resurrection, which is the abnegation of self to
serve Jehovih, shall not fail.
CHAPTER Y.
OF TH E JEW S.
HEAR the words of thy God, 0 Israel.
Shut not thyself up against the wisdom
of thy elder brother, God of heaven and earth.
2. Nor magnify thou the ancient days above
the present; nor feign and say, thy God is
gone away to come no more forever.
3. Behold, thou hast gone forth as a little
man to battle against a giant. With thy sling
thou hast smitten him with thy o n e God,
Jehovih!
4. Thou wast encompassed on all sides by
a multiplicity of Gods; one by one, thou hast
overcome them, and cast them out.
5. The giant of the great beast, the false
Gods, lietli dead and cold at thy feet.
6. The nations of the earth cry ou t: There
is but one Great Spirit, Jehovih!
7. And I declare unto thee, 0 Israel, the
Voice of the I A m is not gone from the earth.
8. Through the seed of the Faithists have I
held up the Father’s kingdom; by the voice
of my beloved founded Him in all the nations
of the earth.
9. Thy enemy exulted, saying : Behold, they
are a scattered people !
10. But thy God profited in thy footsteps,
and in the words of thy mouth : There is but
one Great Spirit, Jehovih !
11. And I have provided unto thee, after
the manner of thy forefathers, a place to
inhabit, where thou shalt not longer pay trib­
ute to the Gods of the idolaters.
12. Come thou out of the darkness of des­
potism, and inherit the wilderness of this land.
And they shall bloom as a new paradise before
thy hand.
13. But, because thou hast accomplished the
O n e E v e r P r e s e n t , behold, thou shalt no
longer be an exclusive people; but shalt snfiV
759
8 OAHSPE.
thy sons and daughters to commingle with the
Paithists of all the races and tribes of men.
14. And thou shalt forsake the ways of the
world, and go, and live after the manner of
thy forefathers, in colonies, without kings or
rulers ; serving none, but Jehovih.
15. And thy people shall hold all things in
common, being neither rich nor poor; master
nor servant. And thou shalt call out to the
idolater, saying: Come into my house, and be
one with me. Behold, there is but one Cre­
ator ; thou art my brother.
16. And it shall come to pass unto thee, 0
Israel, the way of thy people shall be open,
and they shall be delivered out of the bound
kingdoms of the east.
17. Because, for two thousand years, thou
hast not gone forth with the sword to possess
any new country, and establish thyself, thou
art glorified before thy God.
18. Because of thy long suffering, thou shalt
find peace through the light of my kingdoms.
Behold, a new cycle is upon the earth; thy
people shall find proof of these my words.
19. My angels will come into the houses of
thy people, and they shall talk with them,
face to face.
20. Think not that this book is mine only
revelation in this day; within thine house, 0
Israel, shalt thou prepare unto the voice of thy
God.
21. For I will raise up many seers and
prophets amongst thy people. And they shall
testify to my words, on all sides.
22. Judge thou not, 0 Israel, who are apos­
tates before thy God. I say unto thee: He,
that forsaketh Jehovih and worshippeth mam­
mon and the ways of the world, is an apostate
in my sight. For, even though they maintain
the rites and ceremonies, they have forsaken
the spirit and truth of my commandments.
23. Whereas, many who have forsaken the
rites and ceremonies in search of higher light,
are more to the way of Jehovih.
24. Do they not, indeed, keep the rites and
ceremonies, but drink to drunkenness, and eat
to gluttony, feasting on flesh, wherefrom they
have taken life ?
25. And they engage in selling wine, and in
dealing in stocks, after the manner of the idol­
ater. Whilst thy forefathers were scrupulous
to labor, and bring forth out of the earth,
wherewith to feed and clothe man.
26. And they say: God prospered me !
27. Wherein they falsify me, and blaspheme
Jehovih and His kingdoms. I say unto thee,
they are prospered by satan; and their pros­
perity is the wages of bondage in heaven.
28. And because of their wickedness, they
have led my people to disbelieve in my justice
and the plans of my kingdoms.
29. For which reason, more are they apos­
tatized in my sight, than such as are good,
who say: There is no God.
30. Throw open thy doors, 0 Israel; my
angels stand at the threshold. These, my
words, which I have told to thee beforehand,
shall be corroborated by hundreds of thousands
of witnesses from my heavens.
31. Seek for the resurrection of thy soul, O
Israel, that Jehovih may be glorified in thee,
forever and ever!
CHAPTER VI.
OF RESU RRECTIO N . TX TH E W ORDS OF GOD.
W
HETHER on earth or in heaven, the
same rules apply unto both:
2. He that serveth himself one-half, and
serveth others one-half, shall stand grade fifty.
3. He that serveth himself three-quarters,
and others one-quarter, shall stand grade
twenty-five.
4. He that serveth himself one-quarter, and
others three-quarters, shall stand grade seventy-
five.
5. He that serveth himself only, shall stand
grade one.
6. He that serveth others wholly, shall stand
grade ninety-nine.
7. And whoso serveth accordingly, himself
or others, shall stand in grade even as his
works manifest.
8. To serve one’s self is to work for one’s self;
to strive for one’s self, to think of one’s own
self, as to what will profit one’s own self only.
9. To serve others, is to do good unto others;
to help them; to teach them; to give them joy
and comfort. This is the service of Jehovih.
10. But there are some who are below the
grades; who seek to do evil; who seek to
make others unhappy; who delight in crime
and pollution. These, if mortal, shall be called
Druks, and if spirits, shall be called drujas
[druj, singular — Ed.].
11. After such manner, in general, are the
grades of my heavens of the earth, atmospherea.
12. Grade one is on the earth; grade fifty,
midway betwixt the earth and the emancipated
heavens, etherea.
13. Grade twenty-five is one-quarter way up
760
TH E BOOK OE J U D G M E N T . 9
from the earth, toward etherea; but grade
seventy-live is three-quarters way upward,
toward etherea. And so on, relatively, grade
and place of ascent intermediately.
14. But grade ninety-nine is the highest at-
mospherean grade, preparatory to entrance into
the company of the all pure in spirit.
15. But good works alone are not sufficient
to attain the highest grades, for they require
knowledge and capacity to unfold others.
16. To accomplish which, those of the
higher grades shall oft return to the lower,
and learn to lift them up. For this is that
which calleth the ethereans in the times of
resurrections.
17. Wherein the righteous, who are yet mor­
tal, begin at once lifting up their fellows.
18. Which labor is to the spirit as exercise
is to the mortal body, that which giveth
strength.
19. Judge, then, thyself, 0 man of the earth,
as to the place thy spirit will rise in the time
of thy death.
CHAPTER VII.
A MAN may be wise as to books and phi­
losophy and mathematics and poetry and
great learning, and yet be low in grade as to
spirit.
2. A man may know little of all such knowl­
edge, and may be poor withal, but by hardship
and experience, developed in sympathy and
good works done unto others, and be high in
grade as to spirit.
3. So also may it be with spirits that mani­
fest through you as great orators, who stand
even in the lowest grade in heaven.
4. Let not thyself deceive thyself, 0 man,
as to thy knowledge, or thy speech or profes­
sions.
5. Thou hast the scales in thine own hands,
and shall, soon or late, weigh thyself justly,
and take thy place, even as thou hast prepared
thyself.
6. Nor flatter thyself that thou canst cheat
heaven, or change the ways thereof.
7. Nor hide thyself behind doctrines, or
behind the promises of Gods or Saviors.
8. Old things are done away, and none of
these things shall avail thee on earth or in
heaven.
9. Be thou king or queen or judge or ser­
vant, the same judgment shall stand upon all.
10. When the garment is gone, and the dia­
dem and riches and the flesh withal, consider
thou the grade of thy spirit and the bondage
upon thee.
11. Thou shalt take that for which thou
hast fitted thyself, according to what thou
hast done.
CHAPTER VIII.
HEAR my words, 0 man, and be consid­
erate of the justice of thy Creator.
2. These are my exhibits which I place be­
fore thee, that thou shalt not err:
3. And thou be a rich man, and adorn a city
by donating unto it a park, with statuary and
pleasure-walks, hoping to glorify thyself there­
by, and be praised by men; therein thyself
burieth thyself in the first resurrection. And
the act lowereth thy grade instead of raising it.
4. For in whatsoever thou givest, thou shalt
consider, first, the lowest of the low, whether
they have bread to eat, and a place to sleep:
And. the sick, whether they have attendance
and good provision.
5. And thou be a rich man, and contribute
a house for orphans or for the helpless and
aged who cannot help themselves, it raiseth
thee in grade.
6. But so far as thou doeth this for the ap­
plause of men, thou detracteth from the rate
of thy beneficence.
7. Neither doth such a good work help thee
more than the poor man helpeth his own grade
by assisting one poor orphan.
8. For thy resurrection dependeth not on
the quantity thou givest, but as to whether
thou givest according to what thou hast. Of
which matter thou shalt judge thyself.
9. For he who giveth a penny may be raised
up more by so doing, than he that giveth ten
thousand.
10. A certain rich man, being converted
from the desires of earth, went about casting
his money freely in the streets, and in giving
to those who asked him therefor.
11. And some gathered it up, and fed and
clothed themselves; others took of it, and
went and got drunk, and became worse than
before.
12. The measure of righteousness of that
man’s behavior was not in giving what he had
to the poor, but in the good and evil that came
of it, being weighed, as to which outbalanced
the other.
13. And where he lowered the grade of
them that received this money, or where he
lowered a greater number than he raised, there
761
10 O A H SPE .
liis act of casting the money away was a judg­
ment against him.
14. He who giveth, saying: Here, thou beg­
gar ! doeth a good corporeal act, but an evil
spiritual act. He lifteth up with one hand,
but injureth with his tongue. Such an act
detraeteth from the grade of that man.
15. A certain rich' man, being converted to
do good works, went and built a score of soup-
houses to feed the poor gratuitously.
16. And all the poor people of that town
went therein and were fed. But the next
year, behold, there were twice as many poor.
And the rich man built another score of soup-
houses, and they were all fed.
17. But the next year, there were still twice
as many poor people to feed; but the rich
man had exhausted his means, and could feed
none at all.
18. Judgment is therefore rendered against
that man for his supposed benevolence. •
19. For, whilst he did a little corporeal good,
he did a great spiritual wrong, because he
lowered the grade of manhood and womanhood
in those that he fed. His benevolence pro­
moted dependence.
20. A rich man founded a place of labor for
the poor, who. had nothing to eat and nowhere
to sleep. And he said unto them:
21. The Creator hath given you hands to
work w ith; come ye, be men and women.
22. And they went and worked and earned
their living.
23. Judgment is rendered in favor of that
man, for he raised the spiritual grade of the
poor. This is a benevolence that extendeth
into heaven.
24. Let thy charity be to the sick and help­
less, but be thou wise in directing the able-
bodied to help themselves.
25. For all charity tendeth to lower the self-
respect of the receiver, and eastetli him lower
in the grades in heaven.
26. Certain ones depend on alms, not having
either sickness nor yet strong bodies. Never­
theless, were they aroused, they could support
themselves.
27. When thou givest them regularly, they
depend upon thee. These become beggars in
the lowest grades in heaven.
28. That which thou givest them accounteth
against thine own grade. Better is it for thee
and for them, that thou arouse them from their
degradation.
29. To do this tenderly and mercifully, is a
great virtue ; to do it cruelly, is a great crime.
30. Consider not so much what thou shalt
do to raise thine own grade, but what thou
canst do to raise the grade of those within thy
reach.
31. Remember, all men and women are thy
brothers and sisters, and thou shalt labor to
make them make themselves a glory unto the
Creator.
CHAPTER IX.
R
EMEMBER thy Creator and the mag­
nitude of His creations. Before Him
thou art but an atom, and as only one small
creature.
2. Nevertheless, a multitude of people make
a nation, with cities and hamlets.
3. These are also graded by thy God, accord­
ing to the ascendency or the declension of the
whole.
4. If a city, then the grades of all the people
shall be summed together in a scale of one
hundred.
5. And if a nation, then the grades of the
cities and hamlets, and of people of isolation,
shall be summed together in a scale of a
hundred.
6. And if half the people are above grade
fifty, and half below fifty, the grade of that
people shall be fifty.
7. If one-quarter only, then the grade of
that people shall be twenty-five.
8. On the basis of individual grades, shall
be the grades of a city and of a nation.
9. And the behavior of a city or a nation
shall be graded in the same way, after the
manner of an individual.
10. A certain nation built alms-houses and
asylums sufficient for the needy, and, by its
tyranny, made an equal number of needy ones.
That nation raised not its grade for the good it
had done.
11. Another nation built no alms-houses, but,
by its wholesome laws, there were none needed.
That nation raised its grade many-fold.
12. And yet another nation maintained a
standing army, in order to maintain itself.
That nation stood in grade one only.
13. The place of this last nation, in entrance
into the es world, shall be grade one, which is
the animal region, which is on the earth.
14. Whoso dwelleth in such a land, though
he have a good individual grade, shall suffer
deduction in the ratio of the grades of different
nations of the earth.
15. But whoso dwelleth in a nation, high in
762
TH E BOOK OF J U D G M E N T . 11
grade, shall be ascended in his own individual
grade.
16. As these grades are on earth, so they
correspond in the heavens thereof. In all
cases depending on what one doeth for the
resurrection of others.
17. If a city, or nation, or a kingdom in
heaven do unto others in resurrection, then it
shall be credited accordingly.
18. But, if there be no gain in the good that
any of these do, they shall receive no grade.
19. But, if they increase in raising indi­
vidual grade, then are such cities and nations
rising in grade.
20. Consider thy nation, 0 man, one gener­
ation with another; and as the relative propor­
tion of individual grades rise or fall, so shalt
thou determine whether thy nation is ascend­
ing or falling in grade. Humber its paupers
and criminals as to increase or decrease.
21. Consider not its wealth, nor its ships, nor
its armies, nor its great buildings. These all
together are only one grade, and are of no
value as to the spiritual grade of its people.
22. For the strength and life of thy nation
depend on its spiritual grade. Pursue this,
and thou shalt prophesy truly as to the growth
or the downfall of a nation.
23. Pursue this also with regard to the na­
tions of the earth, and thou shalt determine
the relative place of thine own nation in the es
world.
CHAPTER X.
THOU art remembered, 0 man, by thy God,
and admonished and instructed for thy
soul’s sake that thou mayest become a glory to
thy Creator and to thyself.
2. Hear, then, thy responsibility and the ex­
tent thereof, and consider the magnitude of
thine own grade on earth and in heaven.
3. Which is in proportion to the power and
the distance of thy reach. Which I have also
graded unto all men on earth and in heaven.
4. If thy Creator give thee strength to carry
four men on thy back, and thou wilt carry but
one, thou shalt be one-quarter grade. But, if thou
carriest the whole four, thou shalt be full grade.
5. One man hath wherewithal to feed one
man; another hath sufficient for a thousand;
and another for a hundred thousand. These
are the distances of the reach and power of
these men, which is the extent beyond which
nothing more can be exacted of them, on earth
or in heaven.
6. Yet, when they have all fulfilled these to
the utmost, they shall be therein only equal in
grade.
7. But, if they fail in their parts, the respon­
sibility of one shall be a hundred thousand;
and another shall be ten thousand, and the
least shall be only one. These are the debts
men owe the people of the nation, the city and
the hamlet.
8. Consider, therefore, the darkness of the
people of thy nation; the poverty and the
crime; and judge thyself as to thine own re­
sponsibility.
9. And this rule shall apply both on earth
and in heaven. And thy grade of responsi­
bility in heaven shall begin even in the same
place thou established it on the earth. Wherein
thou wert short, thou shalt labor; wherein
thou didst, fulfill, thou shalt rejoice, and be
without compunctions.
10. Also shall this rule be with the king and
queen and emperor, and all rulers who have
means and power ; and the responsibility shall
extend to all the people of the kingdom or
empire.
11. Hor shall this responsibility be escaped
by death; but the bondage in heaven shall be
according to the avoidance of the trust im­
posed.
12. Consider, then, what thou shalt be en­
cumbered with in the es world.
13. Pursue this philosophy, and thou shalt
determine what shall be the labor of the king
and the queen and the great ruler, after they
have died, and entered the es world.
14. Find the grade of their respective domin­
ions, and thou shalt determine, by the ascension
thereof, the duration of their bondage in the
first resurrection, whether it be fifty years or
five hundred years.
15. But if such emperor’s dominions be in
declension instead of resurrection, then, on his
entrance into heaven, he shall be at the mercy
of the spirits of his kingdom, who shall be in
wait for him, and he. shall not escape them.
16. Some other heavenly kingdom shall
deliver them ; otherwise, they fall into anarchy
and madness (hell).
CHAPTER XI.
REMEMBER thy Creator and the compre­
hension of His kingdoms ; and be consid­
erate of the words of thy God :
2. All men profess to desire resurrection;
763
12 OAHSPE.
they hope to ascend to exalted heavenly
spheres.
3. Yet, many will not even try to exalt
themselves.
4. One saith in one breath: To not eat the
flesh of anything created alive, is the highest.
5. But, straightway, he feasteth on fish and
flesh.
6. One saith: To return good for evil is the
highest.
7. But he doeth evil even before the sound
of his voice is hushed.
8. And yet, he will find fault with his Cre­
ator, if holy angels promise him not a high
seat in heaven.
9. And there are others who constantly pro­
fess to have the higher light; but they go
about tattling, and making evil remarks of
their neighbors.
10. Yet, many of these do good unto others,
giving to the helpless; verily are they both
rising and falling, in regard to the resurrec­
tion.
11. The measure of the grade of such shall
be by weighing the whole behavior as to its
result in the community where he abideth.
And this rule shall apply, both on earth and in
heaven, to all such people.
12. There are men who do great good unto
others, and are talented withal, but who are
great liars; and much prone to exaggeration.
So, that their good works are outbalanced by
the shame of their tongues.
13. The grade of resurrection of such shall
not be modified or benefited but little by their
good works. But they shall be weighed as to
such evil habit, whether it be increasing or
decreasing; and the grade of such man shall
he accordingly, and shall come under the rank
of spiritual disease. Because it will be entailed
upon them into the es world, and shut them out
from the grade which they manifested.
14. When thou searchest for the grade of a
city, therefore, all such persons shall stand as
grade one.
15. There be some who say: I care not for
the spiritual man nor the es worlds. One
world at a time is sufficient for me.
16. And they may be good as to the way of
the city, contributing alms to the helpless, and
visiting the sick. Nevertheless, they utter
truthfully their own resurrection, which shall
stand grade one.
17. This is no crime in them, hut an un­
fortunate imbecilit}' of spirit. When such per­
sons die, their knowledge, for the most part,
dieth with them. And they enter the es world
even as if they had died in infancy.
18. They shall stand grade one, because
owing to their weakness of spirit, they must
need be habited on the earth for many years.
19. There be others, who are forever talking
of heaven, and consulting the spirits of the
dead, who are, nevertheless, low as to good
works, and low in holiness of heart. These
shall be graded the same as liars and hypo­
crites.
20. Bor in prophecy [calculations — Ed.],
thou shalt estimate the sum of all the virtues
and vices of thyself, and of thy neighbor, and
of the whole city, or state, or even the world;
and accredit the grade in ascension or declen­
sion, and thou shalt compare one generation
with another, as to the increase or decrease of
its spirituality.
21. And thou shalt know of a truth the
standing of the whole world.
22. And from this, thou shalt also determine
the time, when man came on the earth; how
long the race will survive and bring forth ; and
the time he shall become extinct as to the
earth.
CHAPTER X II.
O MAN, remember thy Creator and praise
Him. In this, thou art graded by thy
God.
2. Who see not Him, are weak in spirit;
who see Him in all things, and hear His voice
in the leaves, and in every herb, are strong in
spirit.
3. These are the grades of the resurrection
of the souls of men.
4. Eor what is the earth but a foaling nest,
and the possessions of the earth but chains of
bondage.
5. My heavens rest upon the earth; the
place of the es’yan is in my keeping. And the
places of the grades of my heavens have I
adjusted, according to the inhabitants thereof.
6. I people the heavens of the earth with
the spirits of the dead ; according to their grade
in their corporeal lives, so do I arrange them.
7. To provide them unto everlasting resur­
rection, and make them to rejoice in their
being. These are the labors of thy God.
8. For the beasts of the field and the birds
and fowls of the air, and for many animals that
are companions to man, made I a place in
heaven, where their spirits should survive for
a season.
764
THE BOOK OF JU D G M E N T . 13
9. And this animal heaven I graded, one, in
the order of my heavens.
10. For I saw that man on the earth had
delight in them; and I provided unto him for
his es’yan period, that he might rejoice in
remembrance of finding his loves.
11. And I made the animal heaven to rest on
the face of the lands of the earth even the
same as the ¡dace of the es’yan in grade one.
12. Remember, 0 man, thy Creator gave to
every animal a season on the earth; but He
limited them to a time to become extinct. Even
so, and of like duration made I a heavenly
period for the spirits of animals companionable
to man.
13. But for man I provided heavens above,
where he should rise as to place, even as he
riseth, as to goodness and knowledge.
14. Magnify thy perception, 0 man, that thou
mayest comprehend the kingdoms of thy God.
Behold the example thy Creator set before thee
in the fashion of the earth.
15. In large bodies, He placed the lands; in
large bodies, He placed the oceans. Not in
little hillocks of land and little puddles of water.
16. Even larger than these are the divisions
(plateaux) of the heavens of thy G od; the
heavens of the earth are separated by atmos-
pherean oceans.
17. I fill not the air of the firmament with
angels scattered about; but I give unto them
regions habitable and home-like. And I grade
them suitable to the resurrection of the spirits
of the dead.
18. Consider the work of thy Creator, and
the knowledge and symbols He placeth before
thee. Thou holdest up a lump of salt, and it
is solid and of dimensions; but cast it into
water, and it is seen not, but dissolved and lost
as to thy perception.
19. And thou beholdest the earth, which hath
dimensions also; but the ethe, thou seest not.
As water is to salt the solvent, so is ethe to
corporeal things the solvent. By slow velocity
holdeth the solid earth its form ; yet, in ethe,
external to the body of the earth, the swift
velocity of corpor is magnified into dissolution.
By vortices in ethe are these things accom­
plished.
20. In the atmospherean regions which ro­
tate with the earth, behold, there are many
plateaux larger than the earth, being habitable
heavens belonging to the earth. Their compo­
nent parts are like unto the earth, and they are
adapted to the abode of angels even as the
earth is for mortals.
21. And yet, 0 man, these are but the atmos­
pherean heavens. These are the dominions
given into the keeping of thy God. These are
my kingdoms and my heavens for a season.
22. As thou, O man of the earth, sailest thy
ships abroad over the ocean, and coming to a
new land, going ashore, dost settle thy people
thereon, and it becometh a new kingdom, even
so doth thy God in the heavens of the earth,
in the plateaux of this vortex.
23. Remember the magnitude of thy Creator’s
works and the symbols He set before thee :
Where the clouds float high, it raineth not ;
where they drag on the face of the earth, it
raineth daily.
24. Consider the habitations of the resurrec­
tions of the dead which are in the keeping of
thy God.
25. Even as to the square of the distance
away from the earth, so are the grades of my
resurrections.
26. According to the exaltation of man’s soul,
so shall he inhabit the places I have made.
27. According to his own soul’s growth and
development, so shall he ascend in my king­
doms, outward away from the earth ; grade
unto grade adapted I them.
CHAPTER XIII.
O MAN, to know the creations of thy Crea­
tor, and the things He hath placed in thy
reach!
2. To apply thy knowledge, and understand
with reverence the work of His hand !
3. How considerate of thy little wisdom, and
thy love of liberty, which He gave unto thee.
4. Even before He had perfected thee, He
called out unto thee to behold His creations.
And thou tarriedst not to learn, but ran away,
half completed, to vent the exuberance of thy
soul, which He gave unto thee.
5. Behold me, thy G od; I am thy elder
brother which He sent after thee. Come thou,
and learn wisdom of thy God.
6. Thou tarriest in the grade; thou art not
aroused to know thy Creator. Thou turnest
thy back to me, and sayest: Behold, there is
no G od!
7. I beseech thee, turn about, and hear the
wisdom of my words: I will teach thee to
know thy Creator; to hear His voice, and to
see His hand.
8. And thou shalt rejoice in thy life, and
teach thy brethren to rejoice also.
765
14 OAHSPE.
9. Thou hast a corporeal body and a spirit­
ual body: Hear me, and I will open thy under­
standing.
10. Thy spirit hath eyes and ears and judg­
ment. Nevertheless, the beginning of thy two
parts was, at the same time, quickened into a
one person, because of the presence of thy
Creator.
11. 0 man of the earth, would that thy
spirit and thy corpor stood even in wisdom
and power all the days of thy life !
12. But thou art so delighted in the earth,
thou hast left thy spirit unfed. And it stand-
eth within tb.ee, as a spear of grass covered
with a stone.
13. And thou seest not spiritual things ; nor
hearest the Unseen. For a stone lieth upon
thy soul.
14. Yet, thou hast great learning as to cor­
poreal knowledge; and great vigor as to cor­
poreal judgment.
15. And thou ratest thy neighbor a fool, be­
cause, forsooth, in contradistinction to thee, he
heareth and seetli spiritually.
16. And thy God weepeth for thee; because,
in the time of thy death, thou shalt stand in
heaven in grade one, even as the spirits of the
beasts of the field.
17. Thy present knowledge shall be void,
and thy vigor only as a newborn child. And
my angels who are wise and strong shall take
thee about, in hada, the heavenly plateaux that
rest on the earth, and divert thee with things
proximating betwixt the two worlds, that thou
mayest be made to comprehend thyself and thy
Creator’s work.
18. As thy corpor was fed on corporeal sub­
stances, so, then, shall thy young spirit be fed
on atmospherean substances, which thy guar­
dians shall provide unto thee.
19. Consider the wisdom of thy Creator, Who
sent me to fetch thee into places of delight.
20. 0 that I could take thee to the highest
heavenly places ! That thou couldst stand be­
fore me, and talk face to face !
21. But, even as a newborn child is unsuited
to feed on corn and nuts, thy spirit is as a
starveling in high heaven. And I take thee to
the nurseries where I have provided for thee
according to thy weakness.
22. Thy mother was provided unto thee
before thou wert born; and my heavens
arranged before thy spirit entered therein.
Thou shapedst not thyself in thy mother’s
womb; and, behold the perfection of thine
every part.
23. Trust thou in thy Creator, but seek thou
also to go with Him, and thou shalt attain
easily to the highest places He created for thy
glory.
24. 0 that thou hadst not contaminated thy
corporeal part by the flesh of the beast and the
meat of His living creatures ! This is as one of
the stones that covereth up thy soul, and block-
adeth thy way to the upper grades.
25. Thy young spirit must remain within
the atmosphere of the animal creation for a
long season; like unto like, hast thou fashioned
thy spirit to the flesh of thy body.
26. According to the atmosphere of things,
as to the purity and sweetness, behold, thy
Creator hath fashioned them in relative ascent
above the earth. That which is impure resteth
on the earth; that which is pure, is upward
and high.
27. Consider the place of the hells of the
spirits of the dead, and the weapons of war­
fare in their hands. As the corporean is to
corpor, so is the spirit as to the atmosphere of
the earth.
28. 0 man of the earth, consider what thou
puttest into thy mouth, for the atmosphere
thereof is the food of thy spirit. And the
habit thereof will be entailed on thy spirit for
a long season after thy mortal death.
29. If thou hast been a gross feeder on flesh,
thy spirit will seek to linger in the atmos­
phere of gross feeders still dwelling on the
earth. The slaughter-house and the cook-house
and the eating-house shall be the places of thy
spirit’s resort.
30. And thy spirit shall feed therein and
thereon ; and thy companions shall be millions
and millions of drujas [like vultures that flock
to a dead carcass]; and thou canst not away ;
like a loadstone, are these haunts to the spirits
of darkness.
31. 0 man, I have heard thee, in thy full­
ness, say : I must have my flesh-food ; I must
have my wine and beer and tobacco and opium.
32. I say unto thee, if thou hast not strength
in this day, neither shalt thou have strength
to-morrow. What strength shalt thou gain by
the loss of thy corporeal body ?
33. Consider thy corporeal body as a ship, in
which thy spirit is sailing across a wide sea of
water. Better that thy spirit learn to acquire
strength whilst it hath a corporeal body to ride
in. After death, it floateth in the direction
thou hast shaped it. Neither hast thou power
to go against the current.
34. Remember, 0 man, these are the lessons
766
THE BOOK OE JU D G M E N T . 15
of thy Creator, which he gave unto thee, to
learn to master the elements of thy surround­
ing.
35. Stretch forth thy hand unto thy Creator,
and swear thou unto Him, thou wilt conquer
every passion that is unclean, and every habit
not conducive to the purity of the growth of
thy spirit.
36. This is the beginning of thy resurrec­
tion; and thou shalt be thine own judge and
master.
37. Neither shalt thou call out: God, God,
exalt my soul! or, 0 Lord, save me and raise
me u p !— until thou hast first begun to do
something for thyself.
38. 0, that thou knew where the virtue of
prayer beginneth! And that he that practic-
eth the All Highest he kuoweth, hath the ear
and the hand of his God ! Wherein the prayers
of the righteous accomplish, whilst the prayer
of the ungodlike is void as the wind.
39. Certain men were down in a deep well,
and they laid down and shut their eyes, and
prayed to be taken up, yet, they would not
even raise their eyes to look upward. And
others, at the top of the well, let down ropes,
and they called down to them beneath to look
up, and catch the ropes, but they would not.
And, in course of time, they at the bottom
said : Alas ! our prayers are not answered!
40. 0 man, that thou wouldst put thyself in
the way of thy G od! To put away the un­
cleanness of the body first, and the unclean­
ness of thy spirit afterward.
41. To seek for things that are pure and
good, instead of criticisms and philosophies,
that rise up out of thy contaminated flesh-
honse.
42. Whoso desireth resurrection, let him be­
gin to resurrect himself.
43. Make not thy confessions, which are
betwixt thee and thy Creator, before men;
but covenant thon with Him, within thine own
soul, saying nothing of this for the laudation
of men.
44. Thy spirit is as a seed of a beautiful
tree, which thy Creator planted; give thou it
good light and a clean soil, that the blossoms
and the fruit thereon may glorify thy Creator
and thee.
45. Such is the resurrection of the spirit of
men. Wait not for a Savior to save thee ; nor
depend thou on words or prayers; nor on heark­
ening to good sermons, flattering thyself, thou
hast done w ell; but begin to save thyself :
46. By purifying thy flesh, by purifying thy
thoughts, and by the practice of good works
done unto others, with all thy wisdom, love
and strength.
47. For through these only is there any res­
urrection for thee, either in this world or the
next.
CHAPTER XIV.
OF the foundations of the resurrections of
thy God, there are two kinds ; one, which
dealeth with those already born, and the other,
with such as are not yet born.
2. For, after thou hast purified thyself as to
flesh and spirit, two conditions are open to
thee, celibacy and marriage.
3. To such as are by nature inclined to
celibacy, let them rejoice; for, in not having
offspring, they shall have less bondage after
death to remain in the lower heavens, and to
return to the earth, to their kindred.
4. It is a great glory for them to make
themselves Brides and Bridegrooms to the
Great Spirit, to be His for righteousness’ sake.
5. But, as to thee, who desireth marriage,
pursue thou the same course as to purity and
holiness of person, as to thine own resurrec­
tion.
6. For, in this, thou shalt be graded also,
according to what thou dost.
7. The delight of thy God, who hath domin­
ion over both the earth and her heavens, is to
witness the birth of such as come from the
pure in flesh and pure in spirit.
8. In likeness of the father and mother are
all children born into the world; and every
child is a new creation, quickened into life by
the presence of the Creator, Who is the All
Life.
9. If thou art pure in flesh, thy child shall
be pure; and, if thou art pure in spirit, thy
child shall be pure in spirit.
10. If thou art a flesh-eater, a drinker of
strong drink, and a user of narcotics, thy
child shall come forth with thy contaminations
upon it.
11. Consider, then, what thy grade shall be,
which shall be according to thy heirs, as to
their grade in the place where they are born.
As to whether thou encumberest the world
with progeny lower in grade, or liftest up the
world by progeny of an exalted grade.
12. Be wise as to the selection of thy part­
ner, as to purity and righteousness. But be
not deceived by such as eat not flesh merely,
for the purification of the corporeal body is
767
16 OAHSPE.
but half the matter. Look for one who is
pure in spirit.
13. Whoso is pure in flesh and in spirit shall
bring forth heirs unto resurrection, which shall
be little or no bondage to the spirit, after death.
14. But, whoso marrieth for the earth only,
shall bring forth heirs of bondage. And profli­
gacy and debauchery and sin shall come upon
the heirs of that marriage.
15. The spirits of such fathers and mothers
shall fall in the grades in heaven; and long
will be their bondage in hada.
16. Flesh-eaters seek their partners accord­
ing to the impulse of the flesh, as to the temp­
tation thereof, or according to riches, or caste,
all of which are earthly considerations and for
themselves only, and in no regard as to what
their heirs will be.
17. And their offspring come forth in dark­
ness ; they are void of su’is, void of heavenly
aspiration, and dumb as to the voice of the
Creator.
18. They go about, saying: I see no All Per­
son! I hear not the Unseen! ISTay, I believe
not that any man hath seen or heard H im !
19. Herein was it revealed to thee of old :
Some are born of the beast, and some are born
of the spirit. Which I declare unto thee, 0
man, is the interpretation of all the poverty
and crime and war and licentiousness there is
in the world.
20. This is the fountain-head, which thy God
would bring to the understanding of all people.
But there are many, even hundreds of millions,
that cannot be made to appreciate this.
21. Nevertheless, the kingdom of peace and
righteousness shall not cover the earth over
until this is understood by all men and women.
22. Whoso understandeth this, let him wed
accordingly ; and let such people be as societies
to themselves. In this day, no mark of cir­
cumcision is required; but men and women
shall converse on the ways of the Creator
understandingly.
23. And, when thou hast children born unto
thee, thou slialt more consider the place of thy
habitation, as to temptation, than thy dominion
over them.
24. To dwell in a city, which is full of
iniquity, thou shalt be a tyrant over thy heirs,
restraining them from liberty, in order to keep
them from vice.
25. And in this, thou wilt be a sinner also.
26. But dwell thou in a place of purity, and
give unto them liberty and nobleness. They
shall not be thy slaves.
27. In this matter, thou takest upon thyself
a new grade, according to thy heirs and thy
God-ship over them.
28. Be cautious in thy proceedings. He,
who created thee alive, gave thee no sinful
desires.
29. Because thou art not yet a completed
man, these things are.
30. Thou shalt find joy in thy talents, and
profit in the wisdom of thy God.
31. To perfect thyself is a great glory; to
raise up sons and daughters who are also per­
fect, is a ten-fold greater glory.
32. For, it is the fullness of the life thy
Creator gave into thy keeping; which is the
glory of heaven and earth.
CHAPTER XV.
OF the abundance of thy Creator’s creations
be thou appalled, 0 man !
2. Consider the inhabitants of the whole
earth, and the number of a thousand millions
brought into life every thirty-three years.
3. Compute thou the number for a thousand
years, and for ten thousand years.
4. And, yet, the earth is not full.
5. And the heavens of the earth are yet even
as if scarcely habited. Thousands of plateaux
there are, with no angels to dwell thereon.
6. But to induce the spirits of the dead to
rise up from the earth, this is the work and
the glory of thy God.
7. To make them put away earthly desires,
to become pure and wise and strong and adapted
to the sublimated spheres, what an endless
labor for thy God and his exalted angels.
8. As thou, 0 man of the earth, holdest to
the desire for earthly things, thou entailest
thyself in heaven, and canst not rise upward.
Even so is it with the great harvest, the thou­
sands of millions of angels born of the earth.
9. If thou stand a pyramid before thee, wide
at the base, equal to the height, such is the
manner of the proportions of the spirits of the
dead on their entrance into the es world.
10. Consider, then, 0 man, how sparse are
the settlements in the upper kingdoms of the
earth’s heavens, compared to the numbers in
the lowest grade. And remember thou, the
percentage of inspiration that cometh to thee,
from this grade, which is doubly degraded in
the cities and great capitals.
11. Know thou, 0 man, that all cities built
by men, soon or late, fall into destruction.
768
TH E B OOK OP JU D G M E N T . 17
Search into the generations, as to the grade of
mortals, and thou hast a type of the spirits of
that city, chiefly as to the lowest grades. But,
remember, the highest grades of angels go away,
whilst the lowest remain. As the spirits of
one generation are to the form of a pyramid, so,
not so will be the spirits of that city in the
next generation.
12. But, in proportion to the increase of the
mortal city, and in proportion to the raising up
of the second, third, fourth and fifth grades, so
will be the relative increase in the proportion
of drujas that dwell in that city.
13. And, in time, all holiness passeth away
therefrom; and, when thy God abandoneth
that city, for a day, taking hence his holy
angels, the people fall into anarchy, or run with
brands of fire, and burn down the city.
14. And the hundreds of millions of drujas
lose their anchorage on the earth, and thy God
and his exalted ones march them away.
15. Find thou the grade and the rate of de­
clension of the mortals of a city,, and, when the
whole number, with the spirits therein, hath
fallen to one per cent,, thou shalt prophesy the
time of the fall of that city.
16. Be thou fearful of the abundance of
drujas about thee; and search out thine own
imperfections and uncleanness and thy pas­
sions, lest drujas fasten upon thee in a way
thou knowest not of.
17. Call not upon the spirits of the dead to
come to thee; but call thou on thy Creator for
wisdom and light and truth and purity ; and, if
it will be w'ell for thee, He will send unto thee
such spirits as are best adapted to thee for thy
resurrection.
18. Whoso consulteth the spirits as to earthly
things, or profit, or great undertakings, or mar­
riage, or war, or riches, is already in the hands
of drujas. Woe be unto him in the hour of
death.
19. When thou sittest in communion with
angels, do so reverently to thy Creator; and
the members of thy circle shall pray unto Him,
or sing songs of praise and glory unto Him
and His works. Nor shalt thou habit thyself
to sit with such as do not this reverence to
Jehovih. And, when the angels appear and
converse with thee, remember thou that even
the least of them hath passed the bars of
death.
20. Be not long-faced or melancholy with
doleful songs; but rather cheerful, like the
birds that sing unto the Creator. And let thy
speech be respectful, and relating to spiritual
things. Learn thou from them of the places
they inhabit in heaven, and the manner of their
occupations.
21. And if thou inquire of them as to earthly
things, let it be as to how thou mayest help the
poor and distressed.
22. For, if the angel that talketh with thee
be a druj only, thy discourse shall, in this way,
awake him to see his own shortness.
23. And if they be high-raised angels, they
shall understand the working of thy soul, and
they will provide unto thee for thy everlasting
exaltation.
24. Be upright before thy Creator and thy
God, who know thy weakness. Emulate them
in all thy doings, for this is the way of resur­
rection, worlds without end.
CHAPTER XVI.
O MAN, weigh the words of thy God, thy
elder brother, of tens of thousands of
years’ experience.
2. Wherein thy soul perceiveth a ray of
light, follow it in truth, and not in words
merely.
3. It hath been said of old : Thou canst not
serve both, God and self. And many go about
preaching this, but they themselves labor for
self every day.
4. To serve thy God, is to work for others,
especially the sick and helpless, and not for
thyself. Thy prayers and confessions to me
are but the waste of thy breath.
5. There be such as preach for money, and
withal are graduated from the colleges and
called learned priests; but they have not yet
learned not to serve mammon, save in words.
6. I say unto thee, that a poor man, who can­
not read a line, that goeth into the house of
the afflicted, giving what little he hath, and,
with a willing heart, cleaneth the floor and
garments of the bed-ridden, is more learned
in my kingdoms than are these graduated
preachers.
7. The word, labor, or work, is easily under-
stood.
8. Suffer not thyself to be deceived by
them whose trade is preaching and praying.
They profess to be laboring for the spiritual
man; and, according to the number of their
converts, who are also taught words and prayers
and confessions, instead of works, so are they
called great workers unto the Lord.
9. But I say unto thee, all these are but the
18 OAHSPE.
subterfuges of satan (self), to palm off words
for works.
10. All such preachers and priests and con­
verts are still tarrying in the depths, — grade
one.
11. Hear thou thy God, and weigh his words
in the balance, and be not blinded by the tricks
of satan.
12. A preacher, receiving a good salary,
giveth half his money to the poor, and the
other half to the church; and his people say :
0 what a good man!
13. And straightway they raise his salary,
and they present him a good house, where he
feasteth sumptuously every day, thanking God
for his own prosperity.
14. Now, I say unto thee, that that preacher
contributed nothing to the poor. The money,
he gave away, was not his, but the fruit of
false doctrines.
15. Because he practiced not labor; but as a
beggar and a vampire obtained his money, not
for work, but for words, he was false before
Jehovih.
16. To serve thy God, or to preach and prac­
tice the words of thy God, require not great
oratory or education. I require not colleges
to brace me u p; nor preachers, that serve not
the Creator.
17. One crieth out: Come to God! or: Make
thy peace with the L ord! But he himself
would not share his house with the poor of his
own church.
18. I say unto thee: All such are either
hypocrites, or deceivers of their own souls.
19. Except thou usest thy hands, and bendest
thy back in practice, and in producing some­
thing in the world, and contributing it unto
others, thou art none of mine, nor knowest the
way to come to me, nor to make peace with
me.
20. It hath been said of old : Do unto others
as thou desirest should be done unto thee;
also, to return good for evil, and to sell all
thou hast, and give to the poor, and love thy
neighbor as thyself.
21. ■And these words are well known; but
who is there that practiceth them ?
22. Wherein the words are impotent and of
non-effect.
23. In place of which, many practice serving
themselves by their labor; but in Jehovih’s
service, their practice is by prayers and con­
fessions : words, words, words !
24. Saying: It is not possible, in the present
condition of society, to do these things !
25. Did thy God limit thee, saying: Do
thou this, in the present condition of society ?
The way was open for another condition; but
thou soughtest not to find it. Thou wouldst
not give up thyself, and live in a brotherhood.
Under the name of liberty, thou heldest fast
to satan and his haunts, saying: I am willing to
serve the Creator, but I will not sacrifice my
liberty.
26. And thou sellest thyself to self, which
shall follow thee into the next world.
27. Know then, 0 man, that whoso would
rise into my organic kingdoms in heaven, shall
teach himself the first lesson of liberty, which
is to free himself from self.
28. He shall not say: I want this; or I must
have that; or, I cannot have self abridged; or,
I will suffer no dictation.
29. I say unto thee, all such men are already
in the bonds of drujas and the throes of hell.
30. But thou shalt say: Here I am, 0
Jehovih, Thy servant! Appropriate Thou me
whichever way I can do the most good unto
others! Myself is no longer any considera­
tion.
31. This it is, to be a Faithist in the Father.
32. If an exalted man marry a woman be­
neath him, he can lift her up.
33. But if an exalted woman marry a man
beneath her, he will pull her down.
34. Even so is it with the righteous man,
that weddeth to the world and liveth therein:
soon or late, it will pull him down.
35. But, if the righteous man go with his
fellows into a separate place, and wed himself
to Jehovih and His ways, then shall that
righteous man be lifted up. And, moreover,
he shall be a power to lift up the world.
36. Shall a bride not live with her husband ?
And they that choose the Creator, live with
Him ?
37. I say unto thee: If thou do not live in
a brotherhood on earth, thou shalt not soon
find one in heaven.
38. But thou shalt unite thyself with such
as are compatible with thee: with whom thou
shalt live equal in all things, wherein thou
canst do unto them as thou wouldst be done
by, loving them as thyself, returning them
good constantly.
39. Being willing to make any sacrifice of
thine own self’s desires for sake of founding
the Father’s kingdom on earth.
40. Rem em bering, thou w ert born in dark­
ness [the w orld — E d.], and art not the same
as w ill be the generations who com e after thee.
770
TH E B O O K OF JU D G M E N T . 19
who shall be bom in these communities, His
kingdoms.
41. Even for them that are yet unborn shalt
thy sacrifice be.
42. In which shalt thou consider that it is
for the resurrection of others, and not for thy­
self, that thou art chosen of Jehovih.
43. For herein lieth the key of all resurrec­
tions ; which is to labor for others; to induce
them to assimilate unto Jehovih, and with
one another.
44. The words of thy God are not for the
glory of any man under the sun, or for any
angel in heaven, but for Jehovih.
45. Thou hast had revelation sufficient since
thousands of years; and sacred books with
most holy doctrines. And, yet, many that
know these well, come into the es world as low
as drujas, and as wandering spirits.
46. Thou shalt judge thyself; thy spirit is
as a manuscript in thine own handwriting;
thou art daily writing thy grade and the place
of thy abode in heaven.
CHAPTER XVII.
R
EMEMBER the words of thy God, 0 man,
and be reasonable in thy understanding.
2. Whithersoever thou buildest a city, and it
increase in inhabitants, it equally increaseth in
pauperism and crime. Neither hast thou any
doctrine under the sun to provide against this.
3. But I have now opened the book of knowl­
edge before thee. The place of my habitation
and of the line of my light and of my holy
angels I have made plain.
4. Thou inayest travel a thousand other roads,
but none other shall be blessed with the light
of my countenance.
5. As thou sayest at the door of the college :
Young man, neither prayers nor confessions
shall graduate thee in my house, to be com­
panion to such as have passed on before thee.
6. So say I at the gates of my exalted heav­
ens, unto the inhabitants of the earth: Only
by knowledge and righteous works, done unto
one another, shall ye be able to endure the
light of my kingdoms.
7. Now, it shall come to pass, early in the
kosmon era, that many shall be gifted to heal
by laying on of hands. And they shall say:
Behold, the lost gift is returned! Have I not
done a good thing in the world ?
8. But I say unto thee, 0 man, that these
also mistake the coming of Jehovih’s kingdom.
9. The healing of the sick may be compared
unto giving alms to the poor, and saying:
Have I not done a good work ?
10. I say unto thee, these things were of the
past cycles. They shall now consider what
shall be done to prevent sickness. This is
better than to heal. They shall now consider
what shall be done to prevent poverty. This
is better than giving to the poor.
11. I have not come to heal and treat the
diseased in flesh or spirit; nor to re-establish
any of the ancient doctrines or revelations.
12. I am not a patcher-up of old garments.
13. I am not an apologizer for ancient reve­
lations, nor have I anything in common with
what is past.
14. Neither their doctrines, nor sacred books,
nor their Gods, nor Lords, nor Saviors are any­
thing before me.
15. I am not come to captivate the ignorant
and unlearned. Nor am I come to call sinners
to repentance. Nor to convert the debauchee,
nor to convert the profane man, nor to con­
vert the harlot.
16. Sufficient have been other revelations
unto all these.
17. Nor have I come to say: Behold, this is
my book ! And there shall be none other !
18. But, behold, I come to found Jehovih’s
kingdom on earth. I come to the wise and
learned. And not to one man only; but to
thousands.
19. That which I am uttering in these words,
in this place, I am also uttering in the souls of
thousands, and I will bring them together.
20. I do not command, saying: Thou shalt
believe, because I, thy God, hath said it, or
revealed it in this book.
21. I come as thy elder brother, in the name
of Jehovih. I show thee how thou canst live
without the governments of man. And how
thou shalt live, in order to join in my resur­
rections.
22. Let not the Faithist of this day say: I
will purify the government! I will leaven the
whole mass!
23. I say unto thee, thy God laboreth not in
such method. The cure is, come thou out of
Uz, and be thou clean.
24. Whoso hath more faith in Uz, let him
remain in U z; whoso hath faith in Jehovih,
let him come into His kingdoms.
25. To know thy Father in heaven, 0 man,
who hath learned this ? They profess Him in
words, but they belie Him in their behavior.
26. Renounce them, O my beloved; gather
771
20 OAHSPE.
up thy household, and follow my voice, which
I speak into thy soul from the Almighty.
Follow thou thy highest knowledge, and make
thyself a glory in Jehovih’s kingdoms, forever
and ever.
CHAPTER XVIII.
HEAR the words of your God, 0 ye priests
and preachers and rab’bahs, and all ye
that set yourselves up before men, professing
to hold the key to salvation and the places of
my resurrections in heaven.
2. Hearken to the words of your elder
brother, God of these heavens and the earth;
behold, I will set you in judgment over your­
selves ; and the powers of Jehovih within you
shall cry out for truth and justice.
3. Take your chosen of the congregation of
your church, and make manifest whereof ye
preach.
4. And prove that you have a good and suffi­
cient doctrine for the salvation of souls.
5. Choose ye the best of your flock, and
show before your God an example of all such
as serve not mammon, but Jehovih. Seal up
their mouths; for ye shall judge them, not by
words, but by what cometh of the soul.
6. And ye shall divide with one another
your earthly possessions, being as brethren.
And ye shall cast it upon the altar of your
church, saying: We give it to the poor!
7. Or, if ye have houses, ye shall say to the
poor : Come and dwell herein !
8. Persuade not yourselves, 0 men of dark­
ness, that ye are not graded by the angels
above; or, say to yourselves: Jehovih seeth
not, nor heareth.
9. Nor say: When we are dead, our souls
shall turn suddenly good, and ascend to the
right hand of God.
10. Nor flatter yourselves, saying: We did
the best we could under the circumstances.
11. Verily, I say unto you : Ye have not ful­
filled the first law, which is to make clean your
own corporeal bodies. Because ye have stuffed
yourselves with carnal food, my holy angels
cannot approach you ; neither can your under­
standing approach the place of my kingdoms.
12. How much less, then, have ye purified
your souls ? Wherein ye will not put away
flesh, because ye love flesh, even so will ye not
put away self-righteousness. Because ye shun
the practice of labor, showing to the world, ye
love words, and the renown of men and caste,
making preferences in your churches, having
rich and poor therein, which is itself your con­
demnation. For ye should divide with one
another; putting in practice your doctrines.
13. What one of you hath a congregation
who have given up all, and who make them­
selves alike and like, rich and poor ?
14. Say ye, my kingdoms in heaven are after
such manner ?
15. I say unto you: Ye shall be bound in
the first resurrection, in hada, to all these
whom ye have professed to lead; neither shall
ye rise in heaven until the lowest of your con­
gregations of spirits have put away uncleanness
and selfishness; which is the first labor. And,
after this, they shall learn to practice fellow­
ship in union, for the resurrection of others.
16. Flatter not yourselves, that, because ye
wear fine cloth, and ye preach, that ye are not
responsible also. Nor hope, that when ye be­
come spirits, ye shall ascend suddenly into
places of delight. Ye are marked by your
God!
17. Your souls are being written upon with
your deeds and works and words; and ye shall
see yourselves as in a mirror, and of your own
accord shun my kingdoms of light.
18. Because ye have learned words, and
practiced only in words, behold, I come in this
day to command practice in works. Not for a
pittance, but for all ye have.
19. Behold, 0 ye destroyers of religion, ye
perverters of the word of your God.
20. I come to give ye a religion wherein all
men can be as brethren.
21. Even the infidel shall accept the Creator
and good works. For he, being the fruit of
your behavior, is even in the foreground in the
march of my armies.
CHAPTER XIX .
GOD GIV E TH A N EW R ELIG IO N .
OD said: Hear the words of your God, 0
ye preachers, priests and rab’bahs; seek
not to gainsay my words.
2. In times past, I had such representatives,
and I said unto them: Go ye, preach my
doctrines unto the inhabitants of the earth;
make them understand the way of the Al­
mighty.
3. And ye shall take neither money, nor
scrip for your labor, but be an example of faith
in the promises of God.
4. So, your predecessors went forth fulfilling
my commandments.
772
T H E B O O K OF JU D G M E N T . 21
5. But alas, how different ye are this day !
Ye patronize the man of wealth; ye boast of
the riches of your congregations !
6. Ye receive salaries, and ye dwell in fine
houses ; my doctrines ye sell as merchandise !
Ye have fine temples and fashionable audi­
ences, and ye curry favor with those who are
in affluence.
7. Ye go not to the drunkard’s den, nor to
the unfortunate woman; these ye take not in
your arms, saying: My brother, my sister,
come with me, I will show you the kingdom of
G od! |
[
8. Behold, I have come to you in spirit and
in truth, but ye put me off, saying: Is not
the first duty to one’s own household ? Is not
self-preservation the first law ?
9. Now, I answer you: These questions
spring from the beast, and not from the spirit.
10. Neither availeth it you one jot or tittle,
to rise at break of day and recite prayers all
day, nor to say : God help the poor! or: Blessed
art thou, my G od!
11. When ye cannot purchase one another by
flattery, how hope ye for the favor of the Al­
mighty, by praise and prayers and flattery ?
12. Behold, the selfishness of man hath
made the world a place of wretchedness. The
people are in misery and want.
13. Go, then, quickly, to them, and provide
a remedy. This is the new religion I give
unto you: Demanding sacrifice of you, and
your congregations, of all ye have, that is not
in use and actual need.
14. And ye shall judge the limit thereof,
remembering that whosoever is bound on earth,
is hound in heaven.
15. I have drawn aside the veil of death,
your sons and daughters, your fathers and
mothers, the dead and the living, stand face to
face.
16. And the angels are testimony unto you,
that your doctrines, as ye practice them, are a
blasphemy against the Almighty.
17. Ye persuade yourselves and your congre­
gations, that, after death, the soul shall go far
away, and to an exalted heaven. But, behold,
they that are dead are with you. They testify
unto you by the thousands, and by tens of
thousands, that ye led them astray with false
doctrines.
18. The evidence of the work of heaven is
at your door. Ye stand accused before Jeho-
vih, that ye practice not what ye preach; that
ye fare sumptuously, and connive at sin; that
ye preach what ye cannot prove; by the
angels of your own blood and kin, are ye ac­
cused.
19. Ye ha,ve no personal knowledge of
heaven, and, in stubbornness of heart, ye dis­
pute with my seers and prophets, who can
prove before you, they have power to see un­
seen things, and to hear that which ye cannot
hear.
20. Ye study spiritual things with your cor­
poreal senses; neither have ye capacity to see
and hear the spirits of the dead. How much
less, then, shall ye presume to interpret Jeho-
vih and His kingdoms ?
21. Now, behold, I come in this era, not
only to declare to you, that the time of preach­
ing is at an end, save wherein it is practiced
in deed as it is spoken in word, but also to
prophesy to you, that many of you will give
up your calling, and preach no more.
22. And your temples and churches and
meeting-houses shall be turned into consulta­
tion chambers, to find remedies against pov­
erty, crime and debauchery.
23. And the congregations shall be enrolled,
and, at the meetings, they shall be inquired
after, to see if they are in need. And they
shall have volunteers, who shall go about
seeking out the helpless and distressed, and
providing for them.
24. So, that, instead of the congregations
sitting to hear your sermons, they shall come
as co-workers for Jehovih’s children.
25. This is the new religion, which I give
unto you ; and, moreover, let it be a prophecy
to you of the words of your God. For there
is no such congregation this day in all the
world; and yet, ere this generation pass away,
this shall he proven before you.
CHAPTER XX.
GOD D E C LAR E TH A D A Y OF JU DGM EN T, A N D
ALSO H E BEQ UEATH ETH L IB E R T Y UNTO A LL
MEN.
OD said: There shall be a day of judg­
ment unto thee, O man. Soon or late,
thou shalt take the matter into thine own hand ;
and thou shalt look into thine own soul to
judge thyself. This is unto all men; none can
escape it.
2. Such, then, is the judgment day. Let no
man complain against the judge; thou shalt be
thine own judge.
3. And every one judgeth against himself,
and, soon or late, crieth out: 0 Jehovih, I have
22 OAHSPE.
sinned against Thee; in my youth I tried to
find excuses for my behavior, but now I am
broken down utterly. |
|
4. After judgment, reformation and resurrec­
tion within man begin as a new tree of life.
5. But, whether thou shalt judge thyself in
this life, or wait till thou art dead and risen in
spirit, the matter is in thine own hands.
6. Yet, better would it be for thee, if thou
wouldst sit in judgment on thyself every day
of thy life.
7. But touching the matter, as to how thou
shalt judge thyself, hear thou the wisdom of
thy God, thy elder brother, and profit thou
accordingly.
8. Because of the Ever Presence of Jehovih,
thou wert quickened into a conscious being. As
thy earth-body is of the earth, so is thy spirit
of Jehovih. Nevertheless, different from cor­
poreality ; for the latter cometh to an end; but
the spirit is the man with everlasting life.
9. Thy spirit groweth by cultivation, which
is by the practice of wisdom, truth, virtue, be­
nevolence and affiliation unto others.
10. Think not, that the soul groweth by
prayers or confessions unto this God, or that
G od; for, in whatsoever God thou firmly be-
lievest, him mayest thou worship, for he is thy
choice. Nor shall any man prevent thee in
this thy liberty. But, remember, the same
rule holdeth unto all in this day, no God, Lord
nor Savior shall exalt thee for words without
works.
11. For, behold, I have cast out the Gods,
Lords and Saviors on the earth and in the
heavens who promised otherwise.
12. And, when the spirits of the dead come
to thee in sar’gis, saying: Behold m e! I am
thy Savior! I am thy Lord! I say unto thee:
All such spirits are drujas.
13. Nevertheless, if thou worship a God, or
Lord, and he be as a figure unto thee to cast
thine eyes into thine own soul, to purify thy­
self in the sight of thy Creator, it shall not be
accounted as if thou worshipped a man.
14. In such respect, it is no sin for thee to
worship any good ideal, whom thou shalt emu­
late in thy behavior.
15. Yet this also shalt thou prove: That,
whosoever of the ancients were great, or what­
ever Gods were well known, that thou settest
thy soul on to love, behold, familiar spirits will
come to thee to deceive thee, professing to be
such ancients or Gods.
16. And, because of this, when thou art dead,
and thy soul risen from the dead, behold, some
deceiving spirit will come to thee to use thee;
neither shalt thou discover for a long season
that thou hast been the dupe and slave of an
unscrupulous master.
17. This day in the lower heavens there are
millions of false Brahmas, millions of false
Budhas, millions of false Kristes and millions
of false Gabriel-Gods.
18. Whosoever bindeth himself to these
names whilst on earth, becometh a fit subject
for drujas to fall upon when he entereth
heaven.
19. Think not that great wisdom cometh
suddenly by dying; in thy early entrance into
the es world, thou shalt be easily deceived.
20. For which reason thou shalt school thy­
self every day of thy life, that thy Creator only
is thy G od; and that Him thou shalt never see
as thou seest a man or an angel; but that Him
also thou canst see every day in the glory of
His works.
21. With this faith in thy soul, thou shalt
die and enter heaven fearlessly; and, when a
pretended God or Savior cometh to thee asking
tribute, thou shalt know of a truth he is false.
22. Now, therefore, when thou judgest thy­
self, to determine the balance of thy good and
evil deeds, and thy good and evil thoughts, let
thy Creator stand as the light of thy soul, and,
through Him, judge thou thyself, but not as to
thy worship, but as to thy works.
23. Neither shalt thou judge thyself by any
God, or Lord, or Savior, or other idol, or by
any man or woman; for thou standest thyseif
second to Jehovih in thy attributes. It be-
hooveth thee to make a God of thyself, in thy
behavior and in thy words and deeds.
24. Neither shalt thou judge thyself by any
sacred book, or any bible, in all the world;
nor by the words within them purporting to
be my words, or the words of any God, Lord or
Savior.
25. For I have abolished all such sacred
books and bibles and words and sayings con­
tained in them, purporting to be my words and
the words of any God, Lord or Savior.
26. Neither shalt thou bind thyself by them,
nor judge thyself by anything that is written
or printed in them.
27. But, behold, I declare a greater glory and
judge unto thee in place thereof, which is Je­
hovih, thy Creator.
28. By Him and through Him shalt thou
judge, and be judged.
29. Books are maculate; but Jehovih, is the
Immaculate.
774
TH E BOOK OF JU D G M E N T. 23
30. Neither shalt thou, henceforth, swear by
any book under the sun; nor by any God, nor
Lord, nor Savior, nor spirit, nor idol, nor
image. But thou shalt swear by Jehovih, thy
Creator.
31. To Jehovih only shalt thou covenant
thyself, and this shalt thou do in thine own
way only, and not according to any book, or
bible, or priest, or church, or spirit.
32. Behold, the olden times are passed away;
and thy God setteth aside the bondages of the
olden times also.
33. Sufficient were they for the times they
were created. A man shall not be bound as a
child; neither shall the judgment of man be
bound by the things that were intended for
man before he attained judgment.
34. Hast thou not beholden the signs of the
times ? What I here give in words, Jehovih
manifesteth over all the length and breadth of
the world.
35. None can stay the hand of the Almighty
or gainsay the words of thy God.
CHAPTEK XXI.
GOD DECREETH A G A IN S T IN F ID E L IT Y .
G
OD said: Hear the words of thy God, 0
man. In the ancient times, I came as a
father to a child, dictating unto man.
2. Now, that thou hast attained to compre­
hensive judgment, Jehovih hath inspired thee
to liberty, and to think for thyself, and to con­
sider what is best for thee.
3. And thy God cometh not now as a dic­
tator, but as thy elder brother, with ample ex­
perience.
4. And I say unto thee, after the manner of
thy professors in the college to their graduated
classes: Behold, thou art free; go thy way,
and no longer hope to hold thy God accountable
for thy behavior.
5. For, with thy freedom, thou also attainest
to responsibility.
6. Think not, because I emancipate thee
from the God and Lords and Saviors of the
ancients :
7. And from the bibles and sacred books of
the ancients; and from the ancient command­
ments and injunctions, that, as a consequence,
thou art not bound in fidelity to thy Creator.
8. More art thou bound now than before;
for thou shalt not, henceforth, throw the re­
sponsibility of thy conduct on to this man, nor
that man, nor this God, nor Lord, nor Savior,
nor holy book, nor bible, nor priest, nor church
decree.
9. So, that thy fidelity to thy Creator and
to thy fellow-man, in righteousness, love and
good works, shall be the most sacred study of
thy life.
10. And thy example from day to day shall
be a perpetual register of thy accountability;
verily shalt thou be a living sermon before men
and before Jehovih.
11. And, wherein thy behavior detracteth
from the grades of thy fellow-men, thou shalt
be bound in the behavior of those that copy
after thee, and, for the shortness thou bringest
them into, thou shalt suffer for them in time
to come.
12. Beware, 0 man, for this rule applieth
unto all the generations of m en: That, by sud­
den emancipation from an old condition, man
runneth into another extreme, from which
spring libertinism and licentiousness.
13. For which reason, rather shalt thou pro­
claim before the multitude the responsibilities
of the new condition, than try to win their ap­
plause by proclaiming their emancipation from
the old.
14. Because I have opened the heavens, the
spirits of the dead return to thee, and com­
mune in thy household; flatter not thyself
that the whole of the Father’s kingdoms are
revealed to thee, and that the angels who con­
verse with thee, can make plain the dominions
of the higher heavens.
15. Many of these shall return to thee, say­
ing : There is no hell, no satan, no God, or
Lord, nor anything in this world to make thee
afraid. For, of a truth, the hell they looked
for, they found not; nor found they a God, nor
Lord, nor Savior, such as they had hoped to
find. And, for this reason, such angels are
jubilant for the time being.
16. Nevertheless, a time shall come to them
also, when they shall tire of dwelling on the
earth, in the places of their mortal kin; and
they shall seek resurrection into more exalted
places, where wisdom and purity dwell. Then,
indeed, shall they begin to comprehend the
ways of the kingdoms of the Almighty.
17. And they will cry out in pain ; pleading
for pity, compassion and help. And after that,
when they come to thee, they will also pro­
claim, even as thy God now doth: That the
commandments must be fulfilled:
18. To love the Creator above all else;
19. And thy neighbor as thyself;
20. Sell all thou hast, and give to the poor $
24 OAHSPE.
21. Return good for evil;
22. Do good unto others, with all thy wis­
dom and strength;
23. Abnegate self in all respects ;
24. Making thyself a servant to thy Creator;
25. Owning or possessing nothing under the
sun;
26. And look into thy soul, to judge thyself
constantly, to discover where and how thou
shalt do the most good;
27. Complaining not against Jehovih for any­
thing that happeneth;
28. Making thy neighbor rejoice in thee;
29. Making thyself affiliative;
30. Without self-righteousness above any one;
31. Being a producer of something good;
32. And learn to rejoice in thine own life,
with singing and dancing and with a jovial heart,
paying due respect to rites and ceremonies,
that all things may be orderly before Jehovih. |
|
33. Remember the words of thy God, 0 man,
when angels or men advise thee against these
commandments, they have little to offer thee
that will promote the harmony of the state.
34. Consider, therefore, that whatsoever pro-
moteth the greatest harmony and wisdom within
the state, hath also been discovered and is in
practice in the higher heavens.
35. And, wherein it hath been proven to
thee, that a state divided against itself cannot
stand, even so are the heavens above not
divided, but as a unit.
36. Judge, then, 0 man, when one spirit
cometh to thee preaching one thing, and another
spirit cometh to thee preaching another thing,
their words are proof that they have not yet
entered the harmonious heavens of thy God.
37. And it is because of the inharmony of
thine own soul, that thou art open to these con­
flicting messengers. This is infidelity against
the All Person, Jehovih. And such conflicting
spirits deny the Person and the Unity of the
Almighty.
38. Let not thy emancipation from the bond­
age of the doctrines of the ancients lead thee
into infidelity against Jehovih.
CHAPTER X X II.
THE F A T H E R ’ S K IN G D O M ON E A R TH .
OD said: I have heard thy prayer, 0
man: Thy kingdom come on earth, as it
is in heaven.
2. Hast thou considered thy words ? And
art thou prepared for it ? Hast thou fulfilled
776
the commandments ? And lovest thou thy
neighbor as thyself ? And hast thou done
unto the least, as thou desirest thy Creator to
do unto thee ?
3. How, behold, Jehovih hath sent me, thy
God, to answer thy prayer.
4. I demand of thee, that thou hast no favor­
ite doctrine above thy neighbor;
5. And that thou art servant to no God, nor
Lord, nor Savior, nor church, unacceptable to
any man in all the world.
6. But, that thou servest Jehovih with all
thy wisdom and strength, by doing good unto
thy fellow-men with all thy might.
7. That, because thou art strong, or wise, or
rich, thou understandest, that thou shalt use
these excellences for raising up such as have
them not, believing, that Jehovih so provided
thee to that end.
8. Consider, 0 man! Thou hast a kingdom
[government — E d .] already. Wouldst thou
have two kingdoms ?
9. Behold, the kingdom of man hath its
power in armies and ships of war.
10. The kingdoms of thy Eather have not
these, but love, wisdom, righteousness and peace.
11. I demand of thee, that thou shalt give
up thy army and navy. Art thou prepared to
say: To whom smiteth me on one cheek, I turn
the other to be smitten also ?
12. Is thy faith still more in weapons of
death, than in the Voice of Everlasting Life ?
Esteemest thou thy army and navy more to be
depended on, than Jehovih ?
13. Art thou willing to sacrifice thy time
and money and self-interest for sake of Jeho-
vih’s kingdom?
14. Use thy judgment, 0 man. Since the
time of the ancients till now, the only prog­
ress towards the Father’s kingdom hath been
through sacrifice.
15. What less canst thou expect ?
16. If thou sellest what thou hast, and
givest to the poor, behold thy neighbors will
imprison thee for a madman.
17. If thou abnegate thyself and labor for
others, they will persecute thee, and revile thee.
18. If thou shouldst profess to love thy
neighbor as thyself, they would mock at thee.
19. Therefore, I declare unto thee, 0 man,
in the land of U z1the Father’s kingdom can­
not be.
20. But thou shalt go hence; and, behold, I
will go with thee, and with thy neighbor, and
show thee how to build, even as a kingdom in
heaven.
T H E BOOK OE JU D G M E N T . 25
CHAPTER X XIII.
GOD JU D G E TH UZ, COM M ON LY C ALLED THE
w o r l d ’ s p e o p l e .
OD said: I am not come in this era to
judge the drunkard, the harlot and
thieves and murderers; these are known unto
thee, 0 man.
2. I am not come to repeat former judg­
ments against whom all men understand to be
sinful; for, behold, I gave governments into
the hands of men, to deal unto such them­
selves.
3. But I am come to the leaders of men; to
kings, queens, emperors and presidents; and
to philosophers and m§n of learning, priests,
rab’bahs, cardinals and popes; and to mer­
chants, bankers, manufacturers, farmers, ship­
pers and hucksters.
4. Such as pass unscathed before the laws
and governments of man, and are reckoned
passably wise and good before the world.
5. And not even to such of these as are bad
men in disguise, 'who escape condemnation be­
fore the courts, by cunning and stratagem.
6. But I am come to the best of all of them,
be they true Brahmans, true Ka’yuans, true
Budhists, true Kriste’yans, or true Mohamme­
dans.
7. Therefore, 0 man, hear the judgment of
thy God against them: They are not united
and affiliated as brothers.
8. But the best of all of them are as so many
individual entities pulling in different ways,
every one for himself.
9. The Brahmans are not communal; the
Ka’yuans are not communal; neither are the
Budhists, nor the Kriste’yans, nor the Mo­
hammedans ; neither the philosophers, priests,
merchants, nor any one people in all the world.
10. There is no fullness of heaven amongst
any of them. They are divided into thousands
of ideas and projects.
11. Now, hear me, 0 man, and consider the
wisdom of thy G od: Satan is wiser than any
of these I have named.
12. For satan hath made armies of soldiers
communal. He hath discovered the power of
affiliation and discipline.
13. Behold, a thousand soldiers are more
efficient than ten thousand men, unorganized.
14. Judgment is rendered against the best
of men in all the world, because they are in­
organic for righteousness, and for establishing
the Father’s kingdom.
15. This, then, is what befalleth the nations
and peoples of the earth: Alike and like the
angels of heaven minister unto mortals (save
wherein thy God and his Lords provide espe­
cially otherwise), the inorganic heavenly re­
gions to the inorganic inhabitants of the earth.
16. Now, behold, I said unto thee, in the
olden times, try the spirits, and see, if they be
of God.
17. For the angels, who wander about on the
earth know not my kingdoms, and they deny
me, and deny all order and system and dis­
cipline in heaven and earth.
18. And each and all such angels, coming to
mortals, do so on their own account, assuming
any form and name they may find acceptable
unto men.
19. Such angels have not yet passed the first
resurrection; nor belong they to any disci­
plined kingdom in heaven.
20. And all mortals, such as I have named
to thee as the best and highest of mortals,
enter the es world (after death), only into the
inorganic regions of heaven.
21. Neither can they enter the second resur­
rection until they abnegate self and learn affilia­
tion.
22. Therefore, after death, they remain, for
the most part, in their former places: The
merchant in his counting-house, the banker
in his bank, the shipper in his place, the pope
in his place, the king in his, the farmer in his.
23. Neither have they power or wisdom to
go to any other place; and they stroll about,
like one that hath lost his master. Neither
will they affiliate with other angels; but, in
stubbornness and moroseness, persist in work­
ing out an individual identity, until they are
broken down in sorrow and darkness, which
may be in a few years, or it may be hundreds
of years.
24. And, then, my holy ones come to them,
and carry them away to my es’yan schools.
CHAPTER XXIV.
GOD SHOW ETH H OW TO KN OW TH E K IN D OF
ANGELS T H A T M IN ISTE R UNTO M O RTA LS.
G
OD said : One rule have I given unto all
men, whereby it may be known what
kind of angels minister unto them; that rule
is a mortal’s own manifestations and behavior.
2. Whoso manifesteth serving himself chief­
ly, hath little light from my organic king­
doms; but whoso serveth Jehovih by laboring
for others, with all his wisdom and strength,
777
26 OAHSPE.
is attended by the light of my organic king­
doms.
3. Judge thyself, 0 man, as to thyself, who
and what angels attend thee.
4. Behold, one man will say to thee : I have
a band of wise and most ancient angels who
attend me ! Another will say: I have very
Gods who attend me !
5. Judge them not by their words, nor by
the names professed; but judge them by the
work they accomplish. Nevertheless, hold
thy peace in regard to them.
6. This rule do I also give unto thee, in
regard to the angels who attend mortals.
7. As, for example, thou knowest that a sol­
dier is not permitted to go away from his regi­
ment, and pursue other employment.
8. The soldier belongeth to his regiment;
he is one with the regiment; he moveth there­
with; the affairs and business of the regiment
are his affairs and business also.
9. Even so is it with my organic heavens,
wherein es’yans become volunteers to accom­
plish resurrection.
10. And, thereafter, they apply themselves
not to isolated development, but to affiliation,
for attaining to the higher kingdoms.
11. The least of my organic plateaux con-
taineth half a thousand million angels; and
many of them contain five thousand million.
12. These are composed of thousands of
branches, suited to the various talents created
with a ll; so, that all who enter find a delight­
ful adaptation.
13. When thou wert taught of old, to say:
May Thy kingdom come on earth as it is in
heaven, it was instruction given thee to lead
thee in the method of my dominions.
14. As to wandering spirits, they have not
yet passed the first resurrection; but, such as
have enlisted •in my organic kingdoms, are
called es’yans, whilst learning the rites and
discipline, and are said to be in the first resur­
rection. And such as have become organic
workers are in the second resurrection, and
this is a kingdom of heavens.
lo. This rule is also uniform in all my
heavenly kingdoms: That, after entrance to
the second resurrection, none of the angels
return as individuals, to commune with mor­
tals, save as hereinafter mentioned, or save
when especially commissioned by me or my
Lords.
16. Think not, that my discipline is less
systematic than that of a mortal general’s
army, or that the heavens of thy God are per­
mitted to run at loose ends, and without order
or concert of action.
17. Be reasonable, 0 man, weigh these
things according to thine own observation and
judgment, for there is not, in all the heavens,
any wide departure from what thou hast in
some form a counterpart-resemblance on earth.
CHAPTER XXV.
GOD SHOW ETH H OW A N D W H E N THE SECOND
RESU RRECTIO N M A N IFE STE TH UNTO M OR­
TA LS.
OD said: In the cities and country places,
I have innumerable Lords, apportioned to
districts and to the mortals and angels thereof.
2. And my Lords know the rates and grades
of their people, their occupations, their aspira­
tions, their labor, their behavior, private and
public.
3. Now, behold, I have said unto my Lords:
The era of dictation is past; man hath arrived
at kosmon. Declare ye the light of my heavens
unto man; but let man judge himself, and labor
to save himself, that he may have honor and
glory thereby.
4. And I further said unto my Lords : Man
hath prayed, saying: Thy kingdom come on
earth as it is in heaven. Now, this I give unto
you : That, where men abnegate self, and
affiliate into a communal brotherhood, after
the manner of my heavenly kingdoms, then
shall ye affiliate my organic angels with such
mortals, and make them one with my second
resurrections.
5. And ye shall surround such communal
brotherhoods with the light of my kingdoms,
thereby controlling the angelic intercourse
with mortals, so that drujas and vampire spirits
cannot molest them.
6. And these brotherhoods shall be taught
to question not the spirits and oracles on per­
sonal matters, but for light and truth as to
what will contribute to meliorating the condi­
tion of man, and as to light and truth, regard­
ing the higher and lower heavens; and as to
attaining spiritual gifts and great wisdom.
7. And such mortals shall have times and
places for worshipful matters ; and these times
shall be in concert with my Lord of that dis­
trict ; and the light of his throne shall be given
unto such a brotherhood.
8. The members of such a brotherhood shall
not desire a leader; neither will any one of
them desire to be a leader. For, if one should
778
TH E BO O K OF JU D G M E N T . 27
so desire, lie would not be of the God-head, but
of himself.
9. Moreover, none of the members of such a
brotherhood shall go off, of his own accord, to
minister as an individual to the inhabitants of
Uz. But each and all in the brotherhood shall
concentrate their profits and force unto one end
and object.
10. Even so, 0 man, are my organic heavens;
all the members of each heaven being as a unit
with the whole, they waste not their strength
and time in isolated endeavors.
11. Whereby, when a prophet foolishly
boasteth to thee, as to having some high-raised
angel, with a loud-sounding name, as his special
guardian and guide, know thou such prophet
is in the hands of drujas, who have not entered
my heavenly kingdoms.
12. Neither hath it ever happened on the
earth with any individual man, raised up by
me or my Lords for a specific work, like Moses,
or Ka’yu [Confucius — Ed.], or Sakaya, or any
other, that they knew of or boasted of any
especial angel over them ; but all of them ex­
perienced the light, which was as a pillar of fire.
13. Even such is the manifestation of the
second resurrection through my Lord and his
Holy Council.
14. And the manifestations are not like
those of a mere magician; but the accomplish­
ment of something that embraceth nations,
empires and mighty peoples.
15. For this reason, 0 man, I declare unto
thee that the Father’s kingdom is now being
founded on earth, and the mortal manifestation
thereof is near at hand.
16. But it shall not come in this era, as in
the past, through any one great leader-forth;
but it shall appear as a spontaneous light, per­
meating the soul of thousands ; and they shall
come forth, establishing Jehovih in truth and
fullness.
17. Now, therefore, 0 man, consider the
judgment of thy God against all such as are
called the best of men, the wisest of men, the
greatest of kings or queens or popes; for none
of these have even passed the first resurrection
in their own practice.
CHAPTER XXVI.
GOD JU D G E TH TH E ASCETIC.
OD said: There are such as shut them­
selves up in colleges (convents and nun­
neries), and such as retire to the forests, de­
voting their lives to prayers, confessions and
rites and ceremonies, being most systematic in
routine, and in being shut away from the Uzians
[world’s people — E d .] .
2. And they allot certain ones as leaders and
overseers, making themselves inquisitors over
one another, in hope of purifying their thoughts
and aspirations, constantly trapping one another
for shortness, and, then, submitting to petty
punishment and inflictions, hoping thereby to
check evil thoughts, words and actions.
3. Judgment is rendered against all such
people, be they mortals or angels.
4. For these are the methods of the impris­
onment of mind. All such mortals are prepar­
ing themselves for the bondage of drujas on
their entrance into the es world.
5. Yea, even in that same college (convent
and nunnery), shall they be immured after
death, by thousands of drujas who inhabit the
place, who profess to have some scheme of
projected salvation.
6. All such people are the manifestation of
darkness instead of light. Jehovih created
man with capacity for developing talent to do
good unto others.
7. Now, behold, these ascetics labor for
themselves in these foolish proceedings; they
do not these things in order to meliorate the
condition of their neighbors. Neither have
they shown, in a single instance, where a bene­
fit resulted to the state in consequence of their
practices.
8. They call their initiations sacred, but I
declare unto thee, they are a blasphemy against
Jehovih. They are as a snare for the impris­
onment of the mind and the soul.
9. And, after death, these people are pre­
vented by their drujan masters from entering
heavenly places of resurrection, becoming,
instead, slaves in the es world, to pursue such
calling and practice as may be put upon
them.
10. For the same rule holdeth on earth and
in heaven, as regardeth the bondage of the
mind. If, by imposing rites and ceremonies,
and by the stratagems and cunning of mortal
priests, they can be captured on earth, even so
can they be retained in bondage in heaven.
11. And it happeneth with them, that even
as they honestly believe they are right on
earth, so will they persist they are right in
heaven, even willingly submitting to cruelty
and to torture, in order to prove their fidelity.
12. Be considerate, O man, of the words of
thy G od: He, who created thee, gave to thee
779
28 OAHSPE.
one star of light whereby thou mayest deter­
mine truth and wisdom.
13. Whatever doctrine showeth self as the
chief consideration, even if it be for obtaining
wisdom or supposed purity for self’s sake, is
not of Jehovih.
14. The aborigine, that roveth foolishly in
the forest, standeth higher, therefore, before
thy God, than doth the nun or the ascetic. For
though the former liveth for self only, yet he
is not bound in spirit.
15. In all things, thou shalt weigh the object
and end aimed at, and the final result; and,
wherein self standeth as a part, or whole con­
sideration, know thou such matter is not of
Jehovih, but of satan.
16. It is not sufficient for the apologist of
satan to say: 0 we dwell in the colleges (nun­
neries and convents), in order to pray for
Uzians.
17. But thou shalt weigh their prayers also,
and thou shalt estimate the value thereof by
what is accomplished. And thou shalt prove
whether their prayers provided harvests of
wheat and corn, and food and clothing for the
poor, and education for the unlearned, or any
other thing that was good.
18. Be thou not put off by the cunning of
Satan’s words in the mouths of priests or
popes; but look matters in the face, and be
thou a God thyself in discerning things that
meliorate the condition of man.
CHAPTER X X V II.
GOD JU D G E TII C H AR ITIES.
OD said: A certain man built a dam
V X across a river, using only stones, but no
cement. And the water ran through the crev­
ices, rendering the dam worthless.
2. Then came certain neighbors to him,
saying: Thou shalt apply cement to the crev­
ices.
3. So, the man went to the lower side, and
applied cement; but, lo and behold, the result
was only temporary, for the water washed the
cement away.
4. Again his neighbors said unto him :
Apply thou the cement at the upper side, and
the water will carry it into the crevices, where
it will-remain with good effect.
5. And the man did so, and, behold, the dam
was a complete structure.
6. After such manner, 0 man, consider all
charities. Thou mayest apply thy riches, and
thy estates for charity’s sake, but of no profit
under the sun.
7. When the man applied the cement, where
it was not self-sustaining, the waters washed
it away.
8. Wherein thou appliest charity, and it
be not self-sustaining, judgment is rendered
against thee.
9. When the man applied the cement
toward the fountain, it became self-sustain­
ing.
10. Wherein thou appliest charity, and it
be self-sustaining, judgment is rendered in thy
favor.
11. When thou meetest thy neighbor on the
road, and he hath fallen down, and broken his
legs, and cannot stand, consider how foolish it
would be, to lift him up, and, then, let him fall
again. Flatter not thyself, that such would be
charity.
12. And yet, how much of the so-called
charity of the world is of that kind.
13. Thou mayest feed three drunkards’ fam­
ilies, and flatter thyself thou hast done charity
worthily; but, if thou hast not done that which
will make them no longer in need of charity,
thou hast done little.
14. Another man may not feed them, but he
may reform them, and put them in the way to
be self-sustaining. Such a man will have done
a hundred-fold greater charity.
15. To open the way for employment and
industry, this is the greatest of all charity.
For, by these avenues, charity will not be
needed, even for the aged, nor for orphans.
16. Consider, then, how little any people
have to boast of for charity’s sake. Even
their asylums and poor-houses and homes for
the aged and helpless are so many witnesses of
condemnation against the people who built
them; because some great wrongs and evils
existing within the state were also built by the
people in the first place.
17. They are as paint and plaster, hiding and
redeeming them, in some measure, for the sins
of a wicked people.
18. And, when such a city saith: Behold
us ! what a charitable people we are ! I say
unto thee, that that city understandeth not the
kingdom of thy God.
19. Yet, thou shalt avoid going to the other
extreme, doing nothing, which is worst of all.
But thou shalt go to the root of the matter;
thy charity shall be directed to prevent the
causes of such ill-fortunes.
TH E BOOK OE J U D G M E N T . 29
CHAPTER X XV III.
GOD SH OW BTH HOW TO DO C H A R IT Y .
G
OD said: 0 man, consider the folly of
individual effort! One will say : I help
my family and my neighbors ; let others do so,
and all will be well.
2. This is his philosophy and doctrine!
Now, I say unto thee, this is just what hath
been tried for thousands of years, and it hath
resulted in impotency all the while.
3. It hath been said: Sell all thou hast, and
give to the poor; but I say unto thee, thou
shalt not do this.
4. Though that opened the way to salvation
in the ancient days, it is not sufficient in this
day. Neither shalt thou hope, that, by giving
to the poor, thou shalt escape condemnation.
5. But thou shalt go to the foundation of
things, and go systematically.
6. Thy efforts shall not be single-handed,
but thou shalt unite with others ; and, together,
ye shall provide a remedy against poverty.
7. Remembering, it is wiser to accomplish
with the young than with the aged. Eor the
mature will be dead in a few years ; and, in that
day, those that are children will be mature.
8. Better is it, that ye provide a way unto
ten fatherless children, than for forty people
that are grown.
9. But, even in this, ye may err toward the
children. Eor, to provide them an asylum in
infancy, saying: Behold, what a good work we
have done! showeth that ye measure not as
your God measureth.
10. Eor it is not sufficient that ye feed and
clothe little ones; but ye shall teach them a
trade, and occupations, and give them learning,
so that, when they are grown, they can sustain
themselves.
11. But, even yet, your work is not the high­
est; but ye shall so provide them, that they
will not only be self-supporting, but, that they
shall be willing and capable of rescuing others,
as they were rescued.
12. After this, ye shall see to it, that all
things are so provided, that, after your death,
your institution be not liable to fall into disuse
or perversion.
13. This is founding the Eather’s kingdom
on earth ; and, whoso laboreth thus, shall be
ministered unto by my heavenly kingdoms for
the glory of Jehovih.
14. Therefore, let your charity be not for a
year, nor for a hundred years; but, be ye the
corner-stones, founding places on earth where
shall rest perpetually a system that will pro­
vide a new race, where poverty and crime and
helplessness cannot enter.
15. Ye thus become, even in mortality, mem­
bers of my second resurrection in heaven.
CHAPTER X X IX .
GOD JTTDGETII THE M ISSIO N A R IE S.
OD said: In the olden time, I commanded
thee, saying: Go forth into all the world,
preaching my doctrines, chief of which was:
There is but One, even the I A m ; Him shalt
thou love with all thy heart and thy mind and
thy soul, and love thy neighbor as thyself, hav­
ing faith in Jehovih through righteousness and
good works.
2. Moreover, I declared unto thee, that who­
soever fulfilled my commandments, believing
in Jehovih, certain signs should be given unto
them, whereby they might be known unto men.
3. And thou wentest forth, and, behold, my
signs went with thee, and thou didst accom­
plish service unto Jehovih.
4. But it came to pass, in course of time,
thou didst forsake thy Creator, setting up
Lords and Saviors of thine own, worshipjnng
them instead of Jehovih.
5. And I looked down upon thee from my
holy place in heaven, and I saw that thou hadst
become obsessed with evil spirits, thousands
and millions of them, who professed to be the
Lords and Saviors whom thou worsliippedst.
6. And I said unto my Lords: Behold, man
hath erected an idol in heaven, go ye to them
that preach in my name, and take from them
the signs and miracles which I gave.2
7. And my Lords came unto thee, finding
thou wert gone abroad over all the world. And
my Lords cut thee short of signs and miracles.
8. For this was the judgment of thy God
against thee, because thou hadst turned against
the I A m , teaching another God than Jehovih.
9. And I made this, my edict, manifest on
the earth; for I withdrew my holy angels from
thee, and, from that time forth, whithersoever
thou hast gone, behold, I have given thee none
of the signs whereof I had been liberal before.
10. And I measured the work of thy hand
in the places of thy mission, and I found that
thou wert impotent to establish good works.
11. And, following in thy path, whitherso­
ever thou hadst gone, thousands and millions
of drujas followed thee; and thy people went
with weapons of destruction, slaughtering those
30 OAHSFE.
Jehovih had created alive, in order to establish
thy idol-God.
12. And my Lords numbered all the places
of thy missionaries in all the earth, and behold,
there was not one place, which thou hadst es­
tablished, which was not given up to sin and
blasphemy against Jehovih.
13. Neither hadst thou raised up any mem­
ber, or members in all them, that practiced even
the first commandments.
14. And I said unto thee: Behold, thou hast
not the signs and miracles; give up thy preach­
ing, and go thou amongst the barbarians teach­
ing them how to plant, to sow and reap and
clothe themselves, and to live in houses.
15. But this was untasteful to thee in thy
hypocrisy ; and thou madest of thy occupation
a scheme to live in worthlessness on the contri­
butions of thy neighbors.
16. And, behold, thy doctrines have not pros­
pered in any place in all the world to work
righteousness for the glory of the Almighty.
17. Platter not thyself that thou hast done a
good work, because thou hast taught the igno­
rant to say: Brahma, Brahma! or, Budha, Budha!
or, Lord, Lord ! or to sing anthems in praise of
thy idol-God.
18. Thy God measureth thee and thy converts
according to such purification as addeth to the
glory of everlasting life, as well in heaven as
on earth. And such purification manifesteth
not only in words, but in good works for the
glory of the Father.
19. And when it hath come to pass that thy
mission brought about a war afterward, behold,
that war is also upon thy head.
20. I measure not a little good that happen-
etli for a moment, and there an end. I compre­
hend the lapse of scores of years and hundreds
of years; and I weigh the whole matter, and
render judgment in the aggregate.
21. Neither judge I by man’s inventions or
mechanical contrivances. My judgments are
in reference to man’s comfort and joy in life,
and to his resurrection in my heavens.
22. According to a man’s, or a people’s, as­
cending grade in approximating Jehovih, so
shall a man and a people be judged.
CHAPTER X X X .
GOD JU DGETH DO M IN ION S.
GOD said: Now, behold, a certain rich man
coveted his neighbors’ children, and he
went about and captured many of them. And
withal he was mighty above his neighbors,
and none of them could regain their offspring.
2. And a certain rab’bah inquired of Jeho­
vih concerning the matter. And Jehovih an­
swered him, saying: Whatsoever he coveted
and hath taken, suffer him to keep. What he
hath taken exultingly shall be a bondage unto
him in sorrow, in time to come; for he shall
provide according to law.
3. And it so happened that a famine came
upon that land, and, according to the laws, the
rich had to provide unto the kin of their own
households.
4. And, behold, the rich man’s possessions
were consumed by the neighbors whom he had
robbed, and great sorrow came upon him.
5. Such, 0 man, is the way of the dominions
of men. A mighty king streteheth forth his
hand to possess his neighbor’s kingdom, and
Jehovih giveth it unto him.
6. And that king exulteth, saying: Behold
my possessions and my power !
7. Hear, now, the judgment of thy God, 0
man: Soon or late, all things answer unto Je­
hovih in a way man imagineth not. Whoso
coveteth and receiveth, is bound unto Jehovih.
8. And, when a king possesseth himself of a
new country, he not only receiveth its riches
but its misfortunes also. The profits and losses
are all his.
9. And the sins of the people are his, and are
henceforth upon his head.
10. And, when a famine cometh upon that
country, the king shall be responsible therefor.
11. And he shall supply every want of the
people, or judgment shall be upon his head.
12. And for all of the newly acquired sub­
jects, who may be in sickness or distress, the
king shall be judged.
13. Moreover, judgment shall pursue that
king into the es world; and the subjects he
took unto himself on earth shall be his in
heaven to redeem, and provide for, and edu­
cate.
14. Neither shall he have exaltation in my
heavens faster than the lowest of his subjects.
15. Behold, I not only bequeath the glory
and joy of the Father’s kingdom on earth, but
I reveal also the responsibilities which shall be
hereafter known to mortals.
16. Man shall not only perceive the justice
of my judgments, but he shall realize the
power of my hand upon kingdoms and em­
pires.
17. I show man not only the way of liberty,
but the way of bondage. He shall know un-
782
THE B O O K OF JU D G M E N T . 31
derstandingly the ways of my dominions, and
the judgment that is upon him.
18. For every one whom the king causeth
to be slain, in order to possess a new country,
the king shall mete out retribution until all his
enemies do pardon and forgive him.
19. |
|Behold, I have revealed the grades and
rates; and such king shall perceive, that his
bondage cannot be less than six generations,
but may be twenty or forty generations, ere he
reacheth beyond the second resurrection. |
|
20. And the same rules shall apply to every
king and queen and emperor, and every other
ruler in all the world.
21. The resurrection in heaven of each and
every one of them shall be with, and no faster
than those they ruled over on earth.
22. And they shall be responsible to all
their subjects for deaths resulting from wars,
wherein the subjects were used for the glory
and power of the king. And for all famines,
pestilences and all other injuries that come
upon the multitude through any shortness in
the king’s government.
23. And for the poverty of the people, and
for their ignorance and crime; nor shall the
king escape retribution for any good thing he
might have done, but did not accomplish.
24. And for all the profit and service the
king receiveth on earth from his subjects, he
shall render back to them an equivalent profit
and service, either on earth or in heaven.
25. Let not the king or other ruler, any
longer flatter himself that death effaceth the
bondage of man unto his subject and neighbor.
26. Behold, by opening the gates of heaven,
I have given you the glory thereof ; and, with
it, I also give you the responsibilities.
27. I have brought the angels to your door;
they bring you news of great joy, and bring
you also the afflictions ye cast upon them.
28. I told those of the olden time, that sword
should answer sword; war should answer war;
and peace receive in peace.
29. Such, then, is the judgment of thy God
upon dominion; and this shall be ratified in
time to come by every ruler on the face of the
earth.
CHAPTER XXX I.
GOD JTJDGETH THE M A N OF PROM ISE.
GOD said : Consider the judgments of God,
0 thou man of many promises.
2. Behold, I have heard thee say : 0 God, if
I were rich; or, if this undertaking hold good;
or, if I am spared, then will I do something
handsome for the Father’s kingdom !
3. And thy vows have been registered in
heaven, over and over again.
4. And my angels have labored with thee to
fulfill thy promise. And, yet, thou dost not re­
gard thy word. But thou holdest to thy earthly
possessions, saying: Wait yet a little while.
5. Hear thou, then, the judgment of thy
God, for it is that which thou shalt put upon
thyself after thine entrance into the es world.
6. Which is, that thou shalt be bound in
heaven till thou shalt accomplish what thou
mightst have done, but failed to do.
7. And this is the penalty for neglecting, on
earth, to fulfill the light that was given unto
thee: Thou shalt, in heaven, accomplish with­
out money, what thou couldst have done with
money. And the difference it requireth to do
a thing without means, as compared to what
might be done by one with means, is the extra
bondage and duration that shall be upon thy
head and soul.
8. To all men, who set out with a promise
to accomplish charity, or any good for the
resurrection or melioration of man, and fail to
do it, the same judgment shall be upon them
in heaven. Nor shall they rise above the first
resurrection until they have fulfilled the same
in all particulars. Thus shall they judge
themselves in heaven.
9. It is not sufficient for thee, 0 man, to say:
I saw not my way clear as to the best method
of doing a thing, and so I waited.
10. The commandment of Jehovih is upon
thee, to do what thou canst, according to thy
highest light and ability to accomplish. In
this respect, then, thou shalt find no excuse,
because thou knewest not the best way.
11. Neither mattereth it, the amount of thy
riches being less than another man’s riches.
12. Nor shalt thou find an excuse, in say­
ing : I did more according to my means than
did my neighbor.
13. One man shall not be judged by another;
but all shall be judged according to the light
of Jehovih in them, and according to what He
hath given unto them.
CHAPTER X X X II.
GOD JU DGETH A G A IN ST W A R .
OD said: Now behold, 0 man, I have
declared my first and second resurrec­
tions unto thee. And in like manner is the
32 OAHSPE.
third resurrection, but still higher. And so
on are all the heavens of Jehovih, higher
and higher, until the inhabitants thereof and
therein become very Lords and Gods.
2. Nevertheless, hear thou, 0 man, the wis­
dom of thy God, and be appreciative of the
way of resurrection being opened up unto thee.
3. Now, I declare unto thee, there are angels
lower than the first resurrection; being inca-
Platk 95.— GALL.
pacitated, from various causes, from knowing
who they are, whence they came, or whither
they are going. Yea, many of them know not
words of speech, nor signs, nor tokens ; but
are as destitute of knowledge as young babes.
4. Many of them died in infancy; some of
them were killed by abortion; some of them
were idiots, and some of them deranged.
5. Many of these live by fetal. And that
thou mayest know what fetal is, behold, Jeho­
vih hath given thee testimony in mortality,
whereby, when a young child sleepeth with a
very old person, that child is devoured of its
substance. In such case, the old person is
fetaled on the young child; the old person is
said to live by fetal.
6. Now, hear thou, 0 man, the judgment of
thy G od: Half the people, born iuto the
world, including still-births and abortions, die
in infancy. Therefore, there are a thousand
million angel infants fetaled on the earth every
thirty years.
7. These angels never obtain objective
knowledge of the corporeal earth, but are com­
pelled to learn subjectively earthly things
through mortals upon whom they are fetaled.
8. Judgment is rendered against all nations
and peoples on the earth for this great dark­
ness, these early deaths. And, because these
angels are thus bound to mortals, and cannot
go away from them until such time as mortals
die, mortals are responsible, and bound to train
them up by examples of righteousness and
good works.
9. Now, aside from such angels, there are
such as are slain in war, whose minds are in
chaos, who, dying in the heat of passion and
fear and anger, become wild and bound on
battle-fields, or, mayhap, stroll away into
deserted houses and castles, and are lost, be­
wildered and unapproachable.
10. Of these, there are hundreds of millions ;
and they are in all countries and amongst all
peoples in the world.
11. They are distracted and tormented with
their own fears and bewilderment.
12. Judgment is rendered against all nations
and peoples in the world who engage in war,
thus bringing these afflictions upon the angels
of heaven.
13. Judgment is rendered against every
nation and all people in the world who carry
on war, or who are accessory to war, whereby
any man, created alive by Jehovih, is slain, in
defence of any king or other ruler, or in de­
fence of any.country or government in all the
world.
14. And, whether war be offensive or defen­
sive, my judgment is against its aiders and
abettors, and against the kings and queens, or
other rulers who are parties to war, willingly,
knowingly, or otherwise.
15. And I judge him guilty also who is gen­
eral, commodore, captain, sergeant or private
that engageth in war or taketh part therein,
aiding, abetting, or otherwise, whereby any
man, created alive by Jehovih, is slain or caused
to suffer death.
784
THE B O O K OE JU D G M E N T . 33
16. And yet, aside from angels who are in
chaos, there are hundreds of millions who are
in declension, instead of resurrection. Such
angels are those who in mortal life were
whipped and tortured in prisons, or, mayhap,
were hanged, or otherwise put to death.
17. These angels take delight in evil instead
of good. Sometimes they go about singly,
and sometimes in gangs of hundreds and even
thousands.
18. In olden times, the false Gods used such
angels to fulfill curses on mortals; and to carry
poison in the air, and inoculate mortals with
foul diseases.
19. Behold, in this day, my angels have
shown thee that they can bring flowers and
ponderous bodies; even so could the false
Gods with their trained warrior angels, who
be a hundred years or a thousand years, yet
this, my judgment against them, shall not be
put aside.
23. Neither shall any king, nor queen, nor
any other ruler in all the world, impress as a
soldier any man who is unwilling to engage in
war. And whosoever obeyeth not this my
judgment shall not rise above the first resur­
rection in heaven whilst war remaineth on the
earth.
24. Neither will I more consider the prayers
of any king, or queen, or any other ruler, or any
nation or people in all the world, who engage
in war, offensive or defensive, or who aid or
abet war in any way whatsoever.
25. But I will abandon all such people; and
my Lords shall abandon them; and my holy
angels shall abandon them.
V i / © © © © © © 0 0 © © 0 © 0 © © © Q ? ©
© © © 0© 0 0 0 0 0 © © ©
\ /
V
— ©0 0 0 © © O /“
=
S
"
=
>
^
0 0 0
\ 0
/
s
V
Plate 96. — BATES.
delighted in evil, cast mortals in death by
poisons and suffocation.
20. Judgment is rendered against all nations
and peoples who use prisons as places for whip­
ping and. torturing prisoners ; and against all
nations and peoples who put to death, by hang­
ing, shooting, or in any way whatsoever, any
prisoner, or any person whom Jehovih created
alive.
21. Judgment is rendered against the judge
and the jury who condemn to death any man ;
and against the law-makers who make, or have
left in force, a law authorizing death as a pen­
alty against any person Jehovih created alive;
and. against any sheriff or executioner that
putteth to death, willingly or knowingly, any
person Jehovih created alive.
22. And this is the bondage I put upon all
such as obey not my judgments, and conform
thereto: They shall not rise above the first
resurrection in heaven, whilst war remaineth
upon the earth. Even though their bondage
26. And they shall be abandoned unto their
own harvest of evil spirits, and to all manner
of drujas.
27. And they shall be afflicted with assassi­
nations and intriguers and despoilers, and with
anarchy and riots and destruction.
28. For they shall be made to understand
that whomsoever Jehovih created alive is sacred
upon the earth; and that whosoever heedeth
not these, my judgments, sinneth against the
Almighty.
29. Behold, it is not sufficient apology for
them, to say: 0, an evil king will come upon
my country and possess i t !
30. I say unto thee, 0 man: Ail countries
are Jehovih’s. Be thou His servant unto
peace and righteousness, having faith in Him.
31. Behold, thy God hath come to put away
old things, and to give unto you the kingdoms
of Jehovih, as they are in His exalted heavens.
32. Heed thou the judgments of thy God;
thou canst not stay the hand of the Almighty.
785
34 OAHSPE.
CHAPTER X X X III.
GOD JU DGETII A G A IN ST EXCLU SIVEN ESS.
OD said: Hear the judgments of thy God,
0 man; look thou upon all the world
with the eye of a God.
2. Be thou comprehensive in judgment over
all nations and peoples upon the earth.
3. Jehovih hath said: Out of My very self
created I all the living; brothers and sisters
made I them, from the members of My body.
4. Jehovih hath said: In the early days of a
world, behold, I provided unto man different
continents and islands, separated by mighty
waters, that man, in one division of the earth,
might not interfere with man in another divis­
ion of the earth.
5. Jehovih hath said: Behold, one nation
and people I allot to one civilization, and
another nation and people I allot to another
civilization. Separately, on the different di­
visions of the earth and on the islands in the
seas, situated I the different peoples I created.
6. Jehovih hath said: But, when the world
groweth older, and man attaineth to wisdom, I
say unto him: Build thou ships, and sail across
the waters I created; go visit thy brothers and
sisters in the different divisions of the earth.
7. Jehovih hath said: And man mastereth the
ocean, and cometh to his brothers and sisters,
afar off, and I say unto man: Because thou
hast mastered the ocean, let this be a testi­
mony unto thee, that there shall be no barrier,
henceforth, between all the nations and peoples
I created.
8. Jehovih hath said: In kosmon I come,
saying: Be ye brethren upon the face of the
earth and upon the waters of the earth; these
are the legacies I bequeath unto My children.
9. Jehovih hath said: Be ye a help and
a profit unto one another, judging wisely of
the differences which circumstances and places
of habitation have developed in the races of
man. |
|
10. How, I, thy God, 0 man, declare this
judgment unto thee: Inasmuch as thy wisdom
hath surmounted the corporeal barrier, the
ocean, betwixt thee and thy brother, it is meet
and proper, that thy soul surmount the barrier
of prejudice against thy brother.
11. And that, instead of making laws against
him, thou shalt do the opposite of this, and
throw open the place of thy habitation, and
thy soul, and thy love, to receive thy brother,
godlike, and with open arms.
12. Flatter not thyself, that thou canst turn
aside, or set backward, the seasons of the
Almighty.
13. Wherein thou dost this, affliction shall
surely come upon thee.
14. Behold, I have made the heavens of the
earth universal; and established heavenly
roadways around about the earth, that the
angels of the different nations and peoples
may be as angels of universal heavens, to help
one another.
15. Wilt thou make a law to incite the enmity
of the spirits of the dead against thee ? And
open the door for still more aggressive wars.
16. Shall the laws of man interdict the
march of Jehovih?
17. Xow, behold, when kosmon came, I said
unto thee: Come with thy G od; peacefully
shalt thou knock at the doors of Chine’ya and
Japan, and they shall open unto thee.
18. This, thou accomplished; and those who
had been exclusive hundreds of years, turned
from the olden ways to welcome Jehovih’s
hand in thy coming.
19. Now, I declare unto thee, I will not
more have exclusiveness in any of the nations
and peoples in all the world.
20. Neither shall there be taxes and duties
of one nation or people against another.
21. Behold, thou hast asked for the Father’s
kingdom to come on earth as it is in heaven, and
I will give unto thee. As thou hast prayed, so
will I answer thee, in the name of Jehovih.
22. Thou shalt not serve both, Jehovih and
mammon. Neither shall the light of my heav­
ens be with thee, save thou heedest my judg­
ments.
23. I will have all the ports open and free,
nor shall there be partisan taxation, in favor
of one nation against another, nor of one peo­
ple against another people.
24. It is not excusable for thee to say: Lo, the
poor foreigner will come and consume my riches!
25. Thou shalt say the opposite : Welcome,
my poor brothers and sisters! Whatsoever is
mine, is yours also. Come ye, and dwell
within my country; it is ample, and Jehovih
will provide unto us.
CHAPTER X X X IV .
GOD JU D G E TII TH E GO VERNM EN TS OF M AN .
/"A OD said: When a man hath young chil-
V T dren, he rnaketh just laws, in order to
teach them discretion, justice, harmony and
consideration, in regard to one another.
786
T H E BOOK OF JU D G M E N T . 35
2. But, when his children attain to be men
and women, man no longer holdeth a law
over them, for they are become his equals, as
brothers and sisters.
3. Even so, in the ancient times, provided I
thee, 0 man, with governments and laws for
different nations and peoples.
4. Nevertheless, I said unto thee: Let thy
government be as a father over the people, and
not as a separate matter against them.
5. But thou hast disobeyed my command­
ments; thy government is as one thing, and
thy people as another thing. That which
should be one entity, thou hast made into two.
6. Thy government hath become aseparate self
from the people; and the people are as servants,
supporting the law-makers, who trade in proj­
ects and schemes for their own profit and glory.
people, and neglecteth providing means for the
development of the talents created with all.
12. In these respects, 0 man, governments
are measured and graded by thy God. And,
whenever a government setteth up itself to en­
force and strengthen itself by violence against
justice unto the multitude, behold, I turn away
from that government; and I call away my
Lords and holy angels.
13. And, thereupon, drujas come upon that
people, and the people fall upon their govern­
ment, and destroy it.
14. If a government be a king only, and he
have no holy council [parliament — E d .], then
the responsibility of the shortness is wholly his.
15. But, if the king have a holy council, then
the responsibility for shortness lieth partly
with the king and partly with the council.
/
—
/ q
) 0 0 0 0 0 © '- —A
/0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 © © O © 0 w— «
C
ô © 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 © G © 0 0 @ 0 ©©
Plate 97.— GRADES.
7. Since the earliest days, all the govern­
ments of man have drifted into this.
8. When a government no longer filleth the
grade, according to the advancement of the
people, behold, thy God withdraweth his heav­
enly protection from that government. And,
straightway, the people run into anarchy.
9. Lay not the blame of anarchy and revolu­
tion and assassinations on the people; my
judgment is against the government in all
cases. These conditions of vengeance are but
the fruit resulting from the government’s diver­
gence from the will of Jehovih, and the march
of His light.
10. |
|As, for example, the offspring of inhar­
monious parents, or of parents wrapt up in
selfishness, are lower in grade than their pred­
ecessors, even so do the subjects of a king
decline in grade in proportion to the preven­
tion of liberty and the neglect of general
instruction. |
|
11. Judgment is rendered against govern­
ment wherein it provideth not liberty to the
16. Judgment is rendered against them, not
only in this world, but in the es world. And
each and every member of such council shall
be bound in the first resurrection until he hath
made .amends unto all his people for the short­
ness he manifested on the earth.
17. Hear the wisdom of thy God, 0 man,
and consider the way of righteousness in the
governments of mortals:
18. The nearer the twain are to being one,
that is, the government and the people, the
nearer they are like unto my heavenly king­
doms.
19. The more diverse the government is from
the people, the farther it is from the kingdom
of thy God.
20. Let this be a guide unto thee, 0 man, in
prophesying the change and the overthrow of
governments: According to the square of the
distance a government is from Jehovih (which
is Righteousness) so is the quickness of its
coming change or destruction.
21. Think not these matters are governed
787
36 OAHSPE.
by chance or accident: Jehovih is Perfect
Righteousness ; the all Everlasting.
22. He is All One. For a people and their
government to attain to be all one with each
other, this is great strength, with a long exist­
ence and internal peace.
23. This, also, shalt thou consider, 0 man:
All governments are tending toward oneness
with one another. This is the march of Je­
hovih. None can stay Him.
24. Consider, then, what is wisdom between
governments : To make themselves reciprocal
toward one another.
25. A government that setteth up itself for
itself, and against other governments, is a sel­
fish government. And thy God rateth it the
same as a selfish man, being diverse from Je­
hovih and His kingdoms.
26. Judgment is rendered against such a
government. Neither my Lords nor my holy
angels shall bless that government.
27. Governments that practice affiliation, to
bring about reciprocal brotherhoods between
governments, are on the right road toward the
Father’s everlasting kingdoms.
28. Flatter not thyself, 0 man, that these
matters can escape the observation of thy God.
The affairs, legislations, laws, treaties, and all
things whatsoever that governments accom­
plish, are known and recorded in the heavens
of the earth. And the leaders, kings and coun­
cils, shall, soon or late, face them; and they
shall judge of their own fullness or shortness
in serving Jehovih in righteousness and wis­
dom.
CHAPTER XXX Y .
GOD DE C LAR E TH A G A IN S T TH E GOVERNM ENTS
OF M A N .
OD said: Whoso liveth with Jehovih is
free from Jehovih. These need no man’s
government; for they practice righteousness,
peace, love, industry and wisdom, with due re­
gard to one another.
2. Such is the Father’s kingdom on earth.
In which there shall be no laws made by man ;
neither shall there be leaders or rulers.
3. The progress of man is toward this ; the
progress of the governments of man should
shape toward such a consummation.
4. The time was, when laws were requisite
unto all things, even to the manner of a man
coming in and going out of a house ; and to
every occupation that man followed ; with
licenses and taxes regulating them ; the time
of apprenticeship to a barber, to a weaver, to a
lawyer, to a preacher, to a physician, to a smith,
and to all other trades and occupations, with
examinations and passports [diplomas — Ed.]
to practice within the king’s dominions; with
rates for fees and rights and privileges.
5. But these laws and governments were for
the past eras; they were righteous in the first
place, for they shaped man’s judgment, toward
perfecting himself.
6. But, behold, a new time is in the world;
from the acquisition of knowledge a new liberty
hath been born into the world. And it crieth
out on every side: Throw open the doors unto
all trades and occupations; behold, the multi­
tude are sufficiently wise to judge themselves
as to whom they shall patronize.
7. Judgment is rendered against the laws
and governments of man in all eases where
they prevent the liberty and choice of man to
his vocation and knowledge.
8. It is not sufficient for thee to say: Behold,
the public will be taken advantage of by igno­
rant pretenders. Thou hast no right to say
what the public will suffer, and thus base a
law on prospective damage.
9. When the public have suffered, and when
they, themselves, demand protection by such
laws, then shall such laws be made. To make
such laws beforehand, is to sin against Jehovih.
10. It was said of old: Thou shalt keep holy
the Sabbath day. And it was defined what a
man should not do on that day.
11. Judgment is rendered against that law ;
nevertheless, I put not aside the practice.
12. But the time hath now come when man
shall judge himself as to whether he will or
will not keep any day sacred.
13. Moreover, man shall not, henceforth, be
accountable as to whether he keep or not keep
any day as a sacred day. Yet, this accounta­
bility shall be unto all men, whether they ful­
fill in wisdom and righteousness their utmost
capacities.
14. There was a law of circumcision; but I
render judgment against that law also, for it
hath fulfilled its time. This law, I put aside
in practice. But I give it as a permission to
the adult, that he may or may not fulfill the
circumcision according to his own judgment.
15. Judgment is also rendered against infant
baptism; and I put aside this law also, and I
make it an abomination before Jehovih.
16. Nevertheless, when a child hath attained
to fourteen years of age, and it choose of its
own accord to be sprinkled with water, to con-
788
THE BOOK OF JU D G M E N T . 37
form to the rites and ceremonies, then that child
shall be thus baptized in the name of Jehovih,
but not in the name of God, nor any Lord, nor
a Savior, nor an angel.
17. This is wisdom, 0 man, to have no law
or government between man and wife.
18. This is ignorance, to have a law between
man and wife.
19. Yet, because there are bad men and bad
women who do marry, it hath been found neces­
sary to have a law between man and wife, as
regardeth their duties.
20. But consider how wrong it is to have a
law between a good man and good wife, as
regardeth their duties. Better is it for them
to be thrown upon their own love and judgment.
21. After such manner gave I governments
and laws unto all peoples. To the bad and
evil-minded, rigid laws, with many details; but
to the wise and good, I come now as an eman­
cipator, saying: Go ye, without laws and gov­
ernment, fulfill your destinies according to your
own judgment, that ye may be an honor and
glory to Jehovih.
22. In kosmon, man shall not be longer driven
in yoke and harness, he shall stand upright be­
fore Jehovih, practicing his highest light with
rejoicing, being a free man, and a brother to
his G od!
23. Behold, the Uzians have a custom of eat­
ing bread, and drinking wine, saying, after the
manner of the worshippers of Baugh-ghan-ghad,
of old: Eat of this, for it is my flesh; and,
drink of this, for it is my blood, signifying,
that that they do, was commanded by me, God
of heaven and earth.
24. Judgment is rendered against this cus­
tom, with abhorrence; moreover, it shall be,
henceforth, known as blasphemy against Je­
hovih.
25. Thy God hath never commanded man to
eat flesh and blood, nor pretended that bread
and wine were flesh and blood, nor commanded
them to be eaten in remembrance of the flesh
and blood of any man born of woman.
26. Also have they a custom of decorating
and draping themselves in crape, and charac­
terizing the same as a sign of mourning for
the dead.
27. Judgment is rendered against such cus­
tom, but without prohibition.
28. Jehovih createth alive, and Jehovih
taketh life away, for all things are His.
29. Remember thy Creator with wisdom;
and neither in thy dress nor habit shalt thou
censure Him for what hath been.
30. Neither curb thou the full sorrow of thy
heart and thy soul, because thy brother or
sister, son or daughter, or father, or mother
hath passed away.
31. But remember, Jehovih is over all His
works, and provideth wisely unto the living
and the dead.
32. Jehovih hath said: To man I gave an
earthly body that he might learn earthly
things ; but death I gave to man that he might
rise to the inheritance of My heavenly king­
doms.
33. He appointeth a time unto a ll; to some
an hour, to some a year, and to some a hundred
years ; every one fulfilleth to result in wisdom
and happiness, and for the glory of the Al­
mighty.
CHAPTER X XXV I.
GOD SHOW ETH H O W HE H A TH W RO U GH T.
OD saith: Behold the work of my hand,
0 man : As thou findest an old house, no
longer habitable, thou sendest workmen to pull
it down, and, then, thou sendest laborers to
clear away the rubbish.
2. And, afterward, thou bringest builders,
and they lay a new foundation, larger and
broader than the old one, and, thereon, they
build thee a new edifice, adapted with new
improvements unto the increase and require­
ments of thy family.
3. Even so, hath thy God labored, for hun­
dreds of years, to prepare unto the generations
of this day.
4. For I saw, beforehand, that man would
circumscribe the earth, and that all the nations
and peoples thereof would become known to
one another.
5. And I beheld also, that, in the coming
time, which is now at hand, the old edifices of
doctrines and creeds and religions, as of the
Brahmans, Budhists, Jews, Ka’yuans, Kriste’-
yans and Mohammedans would not fulfill the
requirements of man.
6. And now, behold, 0 man, the wisdom of
Jehovih previously: He had permitted corrup­
tions and contradictions to creep into the
sacred books of all of the said great religions,
purposely and with design, so as to make easy
the work of thy God.
7. And when I saw that the coming together
of nations and peoples would require a new
religious edifice, I perceived, also, that the old
ones must be cleared away.
8. And, behold, I, thy God, went to work
789
38 OAHSPE.
systematically, inspiring man to accomplish,
even what man hath accomplished.
9. I raised up scholars and infidels against
these religions; inspiring them to attack the
corruptions and contradictions in the sacred
books of all these peoples.
10. And, in the same time, that I sent
infidels against the Jewish bible, I sent infi­
dels against the Hindoo bibles, and against
the doctrines of Brahma and Budha and
Ka’yu, and against the Kriste’yans and Mo­
hammedans.
11. And I made the beginning of the work
of these infidels and scholars to correspond
with the discovery of Guatama by Columbo,
and I kept them at their work for three hun­
dred years, which was up to the time of the
establishment of the republic of Guatama,
which I, thy God, provided to be untramtnelecl
by an established religion.
12. After my workmen, the scholars and
infidels, had thus undermined the old edifice,
behold, I sent laborers, under the name of
merchants and traders, to commence clearing
away the rubbish.
13. And, because of their desires in money­
getting, they considered not the religious edi­
fice of any people, and they provided comity
relations whithersoever they went.
14. For a hundred years, these, my laborers,
have been at their work, stripping off and
clearing away the prejudice of nations and
peoples against one another.
15. And then, behold, I came with my
builders, and I prepared a new foundation,
broader and wider and firmer, for an edifice
adapted to all the nations and peoples in the
world.
16. First, I sent my miracle-workers forth
into every quarter, saying unto them : Whatso­
ever was done by the ancient Gods and Saviors,
do ye even so, and greater. For I will show,
unto all the world, that no man nor God is
worthy to be worshipped because of miracles. |
[
17. And they went forth at my command,
and my angels went with them, doing wonders.
18. They healed the sick, by the laying on
of hands ; they restored the blind to sight, and
made the deaf to hear, and have brought the
supposed dead to life.
19. They have caused writing to come on
stone tablets, and on paper, in the light of day,
by unseen hands.
20. They have caused ponderous bodies, with­
out mortal contact, to move, and to beat time
to music.
21. A child hath lifted eight full-grown men
with her little finger.
22. They have passed full-blown flowers and
plants through boards and tables, unbruised and
uninjured, and, yet, there was neither hole nor
opening in the boards and tables.
23. They have made stars of light that spake
with audible voices ; they have made pillars of
fire by night, and pillars of cloud by day.
24. They have caused the spirits of the dead
to appear as if in flesh and blood; and, whilst
thus appearing, talking face to face with their
mortal kin, who saw them, heard them, and, by
the subject of the discourse, proved them to be
the very angels of heaven, returned to their
earth-kin and friends.
25. For the time of one generation thy God
hath thus kept open the gates of heaven; work­
ing through mortals, by the angels of heaven.
26. My testimony and my witnesses are hun­
dreds of thousands. I hide not the work of
my hand and of my angels in a corner; I extend
them abroad over the earth; I manifest in the
cities and country places; I prove unto all
peoples, that common men and women can do
the miracles for which Gods and Saviors have
been worshipped.
27. Yea, I give these powers unto good and
bad men, and unto good and bad women.
28. For I show miracles in order to break
down the worship of miracle-workers.
29. For I will have none worshipped but Je-
hovih. And I have inspired angels to this end,
and to the end that good works and wisdom
shall be, henceforth, the means of resurrection
in heaven.
30. And I have shown also, that only by har­
mony and the union of many, can any great
good come unto the generations of men.
CHAPTER X XX V II.
GOD R EV E ALE TH HIS M ETHOD OF W OK K .
GOD said: Think not, O man, that thy God
goeth about a work without system and
order.
2. Verily, these are the first of my consider­
ations.
3. First, I send my loo’is, my masters of
generations, down to the earth, to the nations
and peoples where I design to build my edifice.
4. And my loo’is, by inspiration, control the
marriages of certain mortals, that heirs may be
born into the world suited to the work I have
on hand.
790
T H E B O O K OF JUD G M ENT. 39
5. For many generations, my loo’is labor to
this end, raising up thousands and tens of
thousands of mortal heirs according to my
commandments.
6. So, 0 man, since four hundred years my
loo’is shaped mortal births to bring about the
armies of thy God.
7. And now, when the time of kosmon had
come, behold, I sent my Lords and my numer­
ators, to receive the harvest and the records of
my loo’is.
8. Thus, 0 man, thy God knew beforehand
what part and what place each and every one
of his mortal laborers was adapted to.
9. And through my Lords and generals and
captains of my angel hosts, I commanded them
to fall to work on my building.
10. Some to heal the sick, some to work
signs and miracles, some to lecture, some to
write, and so on, every one according to the
work of his adaptation.
11. And all of this is to one purpose ; not to
build up or exalt any man, nor God, nor relig­
ion, but to found Jehovih’s kingdom on earth.
12. To give man the system of universal
peace, love, harmony and kosmon, adapted to
all nations and peoples in all the world.
13. And I commanded my Lords and angels,
generals and captains to this end; and I,
furthermore, commanded certain angel regis­
trars to accompany and be with mortals in this,
the kosmon era, to observe them at the work
I provided them.
14. And whoso doeth a good work in truth,
righteousness, wisdom and love, my holy angels
are commanded to extend their sphere of use­
fulness and light.
15. I said unto my angels : Go ye with these
proofs before mortals, with signs and miracles ;
go to the rich and the poor, to the learned and
to the unlearned. And ye shall observe them, as
to what use they make of the new revelations.
16. For some shall appropriate these things
to money-making; some, to personal fam e;
some, to evil purposes; but a few, to the glory
of the Almighty, and the exaltation of mankind.
17. Try ye all mortals, and make a register
of them and their behavior, and preserve the
same in my heavens.
18. And it shall come to pass that many of
my seers shall have great poverty and great
hardships, for they will be unsuited to serve
mammon. Nevertheless, they shall convert
the rich, proving my truths unto them. And
my seers shall go to them in distress, and the
rich shall deny them, and refuse them.
19. Make a record of these also. For, in
course of time, and, because of the hardness of
their hearts, I shall withdraw my holy angels
away from such rich people, and they shall be
left to fall into the obsession of drujas.
20. And their families shall be obsessed,
their.wives, or husbands, or sons, or daughters.
21. And the drujas shall divide the families,
turning a man against his father, and a daugh­
ter against a mother, and a daughter-in-law
against her mother-in-law.
22. For, whoever goeth away from me, pay­
ing tribute to satan (self), I will not follow after.
23. And the drujas shall say: Think not we
are come to send peace on earth, we come not
to bring peace, but to bring a sword.
24. And families of the unrighteous, being
obsessed with drujas, shall keep secret their
convictions, and they shall say: This is lunacy,
meaning derangement.
25. Others, being asked, if they belong to
the new dispensation, shall say : Nay, we know
nothing of it ; behold, we are good members of
the church!
26. And now, accordingly, all such matters
were recorded in my heavens, and such mortals
became known to me.
27. And such as consulteth the spirits in
regard to money-making, or to earthly matters
for self’s sake, also became known to me.
28. And I commanded my holy angels to
withdraw from all mortals who were not work­
ing for Jehovih’s new kingdom, who were of
no profit in the resurrection of man; and,
behold, this was also done.
29. And it came to pass, that many to whom
I had offered the exalted work, fell into the hands
of drujas. And they held conferences, and were
divided, man against man, and woman against
woman ; full of boasting and short-sighted wis­
dom, seeking the applause of the multitude.
30. And so my angels sifted them and sorted
them, in order to find such as were willing to
sacrifice self for the sake of the Father’skingdom.
31. These I drew aside, and I said unto
them : Ye, that choose to serve Jeliovih,
behold, Jehovili hath chosen you also.
CHAPTER X X X V III.
GOD SHOW ETH TH E M ISTAK ES OE M A n V JU D G ­
M EN T.
OD said: I said unto thee, 0 man, pursue
thy wisdom after the manner of thy God.
2. I go to the beginning; I labor not so
791
40 OAHSPE.
much to convert adults, as to prepare the minds
of the young.
3. Now, behold, because I told thee this,
thou sought to have children born unto thee
after the manner of Gods.
4. Thou saidst: I understand the new king­
dom ; I have the solution for raising up a new
generation on the earth. I have chosen me my
women, who also comprehend, and, behold, our
offspring will be verjr Gods!
5. But I admonished thee, saying : Thou
openest the door for adultery; thou shalt
surely go down.
6. Thou wouldst not profit by the wisdom
of ages. I had holden up my hand, and said:
One wife, one husband!
7. Now, hear me, 0 man: In a new cycle
man ever runneth to the extreme opposite of
the old errors, and thus bringeth upon himself
new ones, that he knew not of.
8. I say unto thee: The new edifice shall be
of all that was good of the past, of things
proven in heaven and on earth.
9. Also, I say unto thee, it shall be of the
young, and not of the adult.
10. Because thou hast attempted to beget off­
spring for the new kingdom, thou, of all men,
art the most unfit.
11. My laborers shall not have desire to be
either fathers or mothers. Nor shall they
seek in any way things that belong on the
earth ; nor have passions that belong only to
the earth.
12. Nevertheless, they shall be the founders
of the Father’s kingdom on earth, and with the
young.
13. They shall gather up orphans and cast­
aways in infancy, and take them into colonies,
hundreds and thousands of them.
14. And these infants shall be fed and
clothed and raised up, not after any man’s
whim or conceit, but according to the accu­
mulated wisdom collected from all the different
nations and peoples in all the world, as to how
to make the best corporeal and spiritual men
and women.
15. Behold, it hath been proven in the
warrior and pugilist how to raise a savage
man, by flesh diet and inharmonious surround­
ings ; and in nations and tribes of peace, how
to raise a virtuous and industrious man, on
herbs and fruit diet.
16. These are things for thee to learn, 0
man, going at the subject systematically, to
find the best way to make the best man and
woman out of the infants entrusted to thee.
17. Not only as to diet, but as to clothing,
and as to comfort and cleanliness ; and to
avoid disease; and as to strength aud supple­
ness and swiftness ; and as to virtue and
modesty ; and as to education, practical and
theoretical; and as to industry and quick per­
ception ; and as to willingness to work for one
another; and to trades and occupations; and
as to pastimes, amusements and recreations,
singing, dancing and playing with great joy
and delight; and as to worship, to rites and
ceremonies; and as to acquiring seership and
prophecy and signs and miracles, in su’is
and sar’gis; as to communing with angels,
and as to the value of angels as teachers and
instructors by tangible presence and audible
voices.
18. And yet, above all things, thou shalt
preserve liberty unto all, with pleasant and en­
joyable discipline for everything, after the
manner of my heavenly kingdoms.
19. Remembering, that every faculty in
every one shall be cultivated to the utmost.
20. Teaching them, from the first, that the
eye of Jehovih is upon them, and that His
hand is stretched over them, to bless them,
according to their goodness, purity, love, gentle­
ness and wisdom.
21. And that they shall not own nor possess
individually; but that all things are Jehovih’s,
and they, themselves, are angels in mortal
form, created by Jehovih to rejoice and to
help one another forever.
CHAPTER X X X IX .
GOD PE O V ID E TH FO E IN CEEASE.
OD said: When thy educational colony of
infants shall have grown up to manhood
and womanhood, they shall understand that,
as they were once homeless and fatherless, and
ye gathered them up, and provided unto them,
even so shall they go, and do likewise, gather­
ing up from the Uzians other orphans and
castaways, and raising them in other colonies,
after the same manner.
2. And it shall come to pass, that many will
desire to marry, and it shall be granted unto
them to choose amongst their own people, and
marry whom they will.
3. But it shall be a law that no man nor
woman shall marry more than one time.
4. Whether the partner die, or whether they
divorce themselves, yet, to none other shall
either ever wed more.
792
THE B O O K OF JU D G M E N T . 41
5. Also it shall be a law, that, at maturity,
if any one desireth to leave the colony, he shall
do so without hindrance or prejudice.
6. Though it shall be inculcated into them,
during their youth, that, at maturity, they are
supposed to swarm out, after the fashion of
bees, becoming too numerous for one hive, and
go and form a new colony; that in all things
they shall be taught not to do anything for
seifs sake, but for the good of man and for the
honor and glory of Jehovih.
7. And these things shall come to pass with
these people:
8. They shall abjure war;
9. They shall be non-resistants;
10. They shall have su’is, and shall see with­
out their mortal eyes, and hear without their
mortal ears.
11. My angels shall appear before them, and
walk with them, talking to them, and teaching
them of my kingdoms.
12. And angels of the I’hin race will come
to them; and of the I’huans, and of all other
peoples whereof mention is made in this
Oah spe .
13. And mortals shall recover, from the
libraries in heaven, things that have been lost
on the earth, as to languages and histories of
tens of thousands of years ago.
14. And mortals shall prophesy truly of
things in heaven and on the earth.
15. And many shall attain adeptism, and, in
spirit, go out of their mortal bodies, and appear
hundreds of miles away, and there make them­
selves known; and they will return again to
their mortal bodies, unharmed.
16. All these, and even greater things, shall
my angels teach them.
17. Flatter not thyself, 0 man, that these
things can come in Uz, or that they can come
suddenly. They can neither come to Uzians,
nor can they come suddenly.
18. It is not the work of thy God in this
cycle to raise up any man to become worship­
ful because of such wonders; it is my work to
show man how he shall attain to these things
himself.
19. For this reason, I come not, in this day,
to call sinners to repentance, nor to gather up
the lost sheep of Israel.
20. I come now to the wise and pure, who
have fulfilled the former commandments.
21. I come to give them a new lesson, which
is, to show them how to build the Father’s
kingdom on earth.
22. I come to raise up a new people in the
world, greater than hath ever been.
23. Those that I sent have cleared away the
old edifice. I come not as a destroyer; I come
as a builder.
24. Into thy hands, 0 man, I give the key
to the heavenly kingdoms. Remember, the
password which admitteth thee to the all high­
est kingdoms is, JEHOVIH, THE I AM.
END OF THE BOOK OF JU D G M E N T.
1Uz, “ W orld’s people.”
2It is a remarkable coincidence, that as soon as the Brahmans
began to preach Brahma, instead of Ormazd (the Creator), they
lost the signs and miracles of the ancients. The same thing came
to the Budhists, as soon as they began to preach Budha, the signs
and miracles left them. And the same thing happened to the
Christians; as soon as they made an idol of Christ, signs and mira­
cles left them. The Roman catholics have frequently pretended to
have the signs, but it is only a pretence. Manifestations, like those
at Lourdes (even if true), are but the tricks and games of drujas,
as the results show.
793
BOOK OF INSPIRATION.
CHAPTER I.
T
HESE are the words of Tae, in kosmon:
I am Light; I am Central, but Boundless,
saitli Jehovih.
2. I give thee of My Light; and when thou
hast received, thou criest out: Behold, I am
wise!
3. Thy corpor I made, in which to localize
thee; to mature thy entity.
4. Without Me, thou hadst not come to life.
Thou art as the end of a ray of light from My
Person.
5. And thou art focalized in thy corporeal
body.
C. I am to thy spirit, as is the sun to a ray
of light. I am the Light that illuminateth
thy soul.
7. The ray of light that goeth out of Me,
taketh root in mortality, and thou art the
product, the tree.
8. Thou wert nothing; though all things
that constitute thee, were before.
9. These I drove together, and quickened.
10. Thus I made thee.
11. After the manner I made tliee cor­
poreally, so made I thee spiritually, intel­
lectually.
12. As out of corpor I made thy corporeal
body, so, out of My Light, which is My Very
Self, I built thee up in spirit, with conscious­
ness that thou art.
13. Thou canst not add one jot or tittle to
thy corporeal self, of thine own will and exer­
tion.
14. It is by and through Me, that the pro­
cess of absorption by the blood addeth unto
thee.
15. Thy blood floweth in thy veins because
of My quickening power upon thee.
16. When I withdraw My hand, thou diest.
Life and death are of Me.
17. All thy corporeal part is, therefore, of
Me and through Me.
18. Even so is thy spirit of Me also.
19. And as thou canst not add a fraction to
thy corporeal self, neither canst thou add a
fraction to thy spiritual self.
20. Out of Myself groweth thy spirit.
21. Neither canst thou, of tliine own self,
manufacture or acquire or take- unto thyself,
one new thought, nor idea, nor invention.
22. All thought and knowledge and judg­
ment which thou hast, I gave unto thee.
23. As the whirlwind gathereth up dust,
and driveth it toward a centre, so is the plan
of My universe.
24. Thou art as a centre; all things come to
thee from without.
25. Thy knowledge, as well as thy corpore­
ality, came to thee from without, from that
which was external to thyself.
CHAPTER II.
T
HOU art of inspiration made, saith Jeho­
vih.
2. I made thee a corporeal body, and I wrote
upon it. The result thou art.
3. And I made thee susceptible, so all
things external to thyself could write upon
thee.
4. The sum of these is thy knowledge.
5. As it is with thee, so is it with all men,
and with all the living -which I created.
6. Nor is there any knowledge in the world,
but what I gave.
7. All of it is My inspiration.
8. ||Man said: By certain measurements, I
teach my son mathematics. |
|
9. I am back of all, saith Jehovih.
10. I taught thy father’s father and all who
were before him. The sum of all of man’s
knowledge is but man’s capacity to perceive
My Light.
11. I made thee My servant, to teach thy
son by certain measurements. This was the
road I made to reach thy son’s soul.
12. ||Man said: I know more than did my
794
BOOK OF I N S P I R A T I O N . 2
father; ancl yet my father knew more than did
his father. We reason, we digest, we com­
pound from one another. ]
[
13. I am the All External; from Me are
smaller lights focalized, saith Jehovili.
14. A man holdeth a condensing lens to the
sun, and he lighteth a fire thereby, but yet the
lens contained not the heat.
15. After such manner hast thou accumu­
lated knowledge; yet, no knowledge was of
thine own begetting, but all came from Me. I
gave it all.
16. The increase in knowledge now upon the
earth, with all the races of men, is only the
increase I gave. Man of himself created none
of it.
17. Neither canst thou create one thought,
nor idea, nor impulse.
18. Thou canst only gather together from
My harvests, or from Me in Person.
CHAPTER III.
r jAHE eye of man I made to obtain knowledge
1 by light; but the ear of man I made to
obtain knowledge from darkness, and within
darkness, saith Jehovih.
2. The power of touch I gave to man,
whereby he might learn of things their adapt­
ability and compatibility and incompatibility
with himself.
3. These are the corporeal doorways I gave
unto thee, 0 man, whereby thou mightest re­
ceive knowledge from Me and My creations,
consciously to thyself.
4. Through these, thou art constantly im­
pregnated ; through these, thy soul accumu-
lateth knowledge of My works.
5. Whatsoever is charged upon these door­
ways of thy soul, is inspiration.
6. When thou seest bread, thou art inspired
to eat; when thou seest a horse, thou art in­
spired to ride; when thou touchest a nettle,
thou art inspired with pain.
7. Yet, in all cases, thou must have practice
before thou canst comprehend the inspiration
that cometh to thee from these external things.
8. |
|Man saith: To-day, I remember my
friend whom I saw not for many a year. |
|
9. Jehovih saith: I made thee as a store­
house, and as a book that was written before.
10. And I gave to thee power to re-read thy
stores and thy book, within thy soul.
11. This was the accumulated inspiration
which I had previously given thee.
12. When thou art fevered, or entranced, or
in diverse action from thy usual bent, thy soul
turneth into these stores, and thy memory
cometh forth wonderfully.
13. This is the manifestation of inspiration
which I had previously given thee.
14. I made thee that thou shouldst receive
inspiration, not only from the world external
to thyself, but inspiration from the members
of thy body.
15. My impression upon thee is inspiration;
but thou must realize My inspiration, in order
to know Me.
16. An idiot holdeth fire in his hand, and it
giveth him pain, but yet, he knoweth not the
cause, nor whence the origin of the pain.
17. So, also, I come to thee, and give thee
inspiration, but thou discernest not Me.
18. Another man discerneth My Presence,
and My inspiration. He lieareth Me speak;
he seeth My Person.
19. Yet, I am with both alike.
20. One man openeth his mouth to speak,
and, behold, My words come forth.
21. And yet another saith : No man knoweth
Jehovih; none have heard Him.
22. One man is sensitive, as a plate for a
picture, and he catcheth My Light instantly,
and knoweth it is from Me.
23. Another one saith: A-sudden thought
struck m e! But he discerneth not whence it
came.
CHAPTER IY.
W
HEN the infant is young, My Light is
its first knowledge, saith Jehovih.
2. It seeth Me and heareth M e; and it seeth
and heareth My angels.
3. By the pressure of My Light upon its
corporeal eyes and ears, it learneth to see and
hear corporeally.
4. This is the beginning of two senses, which
I created to grow parallel to each other, and
equal in strength.
5. But the infant, being in the corporeal
world, heedeth more the things that appeal to
the corporeal senses than such as appeal to the
spiritual senses.
6. So that one person groweth up, forgetting
Me and My angels. He is a skeptic.
7. But another person groweth up, remem­
bering Me and My angels. He is a believer.
8. And, behold, thou, 0 man, inquirest of
them: Whence came the idea of a Creator, an
All Person ?
795
3 OAHSPE.
9. And one of them, answereth thee: It is
inherent; it is natural.
10. JBut the other answereth: It is folly ; it
came from darkness.
11. But I say unto thee, 0 man: Darkness
cannot create an idea; not even darkness
would be known but for the light I make be­
side it.
12. Thou canst not imagine any animal
under the sun which I have not created.
13. |
|Man said: I imagine a horse with a
fish’s head and fins. |
|
14. Whatsoever thou inventest, saith Jeho-
vih, thou but takest the parts of one of My
creations, and puttest them to another.
15. Let this prove unto thee, if thou canst
not invent a new living creature, that thy fore­
fathers did not do so either in regard to Me.
16. Nevertheless, thou hast a thought, and
an idea of Me and of My Person.
17. And thou hast a thought, and an idea of
the spirits of the dead.
18. By My Presence and inspiration upon
thee, I taught thee I am the I AM, a Person.
19. By the inspiration and presence of My
angels, I taught thee of them also.
20. My inspiration upon the bird eauseth it
to sing; by My Presence I teach it to build its
nest.
21. By My Presence I color one rose red,
and another white.
22. Proof of My Person is in the harmony
of the whole, and of every one being a person
of itself, perfect in its order.
CHAPTER V.
TWO kinds of voices have I, saith Jehovih:
The silent voice and the audible voice.
2. All men I created susceptible to one or
the other of My voices, and many to both.
3. One man heareth My voice in the breeze,
and in thunder, and in music.
4. Another heareth My voice in the flowers
of the field, and in the scenery of the moun­
tains.
5. And yet another feeleth My inspiration;
and he skippeth up the mountain side, and tir-
eth not on the way.
6. He that neither seeth nor feeleth My
inspiration, goeth up the mountain in great
labor.
7. In proportion as man is clear in his cor­
poreality and in his spirit, so discerneth he
My inspiration.
8. And if he have great purity as well, then
he shapeth My Light into corporeal words.
9. These I taught man to call My revealed
words.
10. Nevertheless, no corporeal man created
I perfect; neither can any man reveal My
words perfectly.
11. But I created the way open unto all
men, to try to reveal Me.
12. According to man’s approximation to
perfect manhood, so reveal I unto him, by My
Presence and My words.
13. According to man’s imperfection in man­
hood, so doth not My inspiration manifest on
his senses.
14. Perfect manhood created I possible, in
equal corporeal and spiritual senses.
15. Strong corporeal senses and weak spirit­
ual senses detract man from My Presence, and
make him infidel to My Person.
16. Such a man denieth My inspiration and
the inspiration of My angels. He is little
more than a forest tree, which hath a trunk
and many branches, but moveth not from its
place.
CHAPTER VI.
AM One Spirit, saith Jehovih.
2. My quickening power is upon all the
living; because of this, they live and move.
3. According to the different structure of
the living, so is My inspiration manifested by
them.
4. One, as the hare, runneth away in cow­
ardice ; another, as a lion, is ferocious; another,
without judgment, as the serpent.
5. And as to man: One is inspired to music;
another to mathematics; another to seership,
and so on.
6. To all of these I am the One, the Univer­
sal Inspirer that moveth all of them.
7. According to their organic structure, so
do they manifest My inspiration.
8. The lowest of iiving creatures made I the
serpent, for I gave to him an element capable
of destroying himself.
9. When the earth was encircled with poi­
sonous gases, I created poisonous vines and
weeds and trees and all kinds of herbs, rich­
growing upon the earth.
10. Thus, from destroying gases and from
earth-substance created I the vegetable world.
And, in that day, all growing things upon the
earth which I had created were poison as to
animal life.
796
BOOK OF I N S P I R A T I O N . 4
11. Then, I created the serpents; of all
sizes created I them. And they were poison
also.
12. And the serpents I created were carniv­
orous, feeding upon one another. Self-impreg­
nating created I them.
13. Thus drove I the poison of the air down
into vegetation, and thence into the animal
world; thus I purified the air of heaven.
14. This was the first creation I created on
this world.
15. Then I overcast the earth with falling
nebulse, and covered up the poisons growing
upon the earth, and they were turned to oil and
coal.
16. Then, I made a new creation ; giving feet
and legs and bones to the animals I designed
for the earth.
17. And when the earth was ripe for man,
then I created him ; male and female created I
those of the second creation.
18. And man was dumb, like other animals;
without speech and without understanding,
even less than any other creature which I had
created.
19. Nevertheless, I had given to man, and
thus made him, out of the dissolved elements,
of every living thing that had preceded him.
20. And man partook of the first and the
second creations. After the manner of every
animal on the earth, so created I man; with all
the characteristics of all of them, so created I
him, male and female created I them.
21. And man was unconscious of his creation,
not knowing whence he came; nor knew he
which was his own species.
22. And I sent angels to man, to teach him
who he was, and to rouse him up to his capa­
bilities, for which I created him.
23. And my angels drew, from man’s side,
substance, and thus took on corporeal forms;
and the angels dwelt with man as helpmates,
to make man understand.
CHAPTER VII.
I
CREATED man, even from the first, that
he should learn to be an independent being,
saith Jehovih.
2. And when My angels had taught man
speech, making man name all the animals in
the world, after the names the animals called
themselves, I commanded My angels to come
away from man, for a season.
3. To My angels I said: Behold, of all the
animals I created in the world, to man only
gave I capacity to transmit knowledge to his
brethren by words.
4. And to man only gave I capacity to com­
prehend an idea of Me, his Creator.
6. Nevertheless, I inspire all living animals
which I created; but they know it not.
6. I inspire the spider to make its n et; the
bird to build her nest; the wild goose to fly to
the south, before the winter cometh; the mare
to neigh for her colt; the ant to lay in its
stores; the bees to dwell in a queendom ; and
so on, every living creature do I move and con­
trol by My inspiration upon them.
7. Males and females I inspire to come to­
gether at times and seasons; and then to live
apart during gestation. These I keep before
man as a lesson of the wisdom of My inspira­
tion.
8. To man I give liberty to acquire wisdom
by observing the method of My work, as I
manifest in other living creatures.
9. I have also given man capacity to attain
to know My inspiration in contradistinction
from the inspiration he receiveth from his sur­
roundings.
10. To no other creature gave I this capacity.
11. What cometh of Me, is without pain or
injury to any one, and with liberty unto all.
Such are My inspirations.
12. When man witnesseth a battle, he is in­
spired to battle ; when he witnesseth peace and
love, he is inspired to peace and love.
13. What moveth man in consonance and
wisdom, and to life, is My inspiration.
14. What moveth man in dissonance and
folly, and to death, is inspiration from man’s
surroundings.
15. I inspire the serpent to bite to death; for
thus created I it. This is no sin, for it fulfilleth
its labor; it is the remnant of poison of other
eras.
16. Man I created not to destruction, but to
life, wisdom, peace and love toward all.
17. When man practiceth virtue, wisdom,
truth and love unto all, his inspiration is from
Me direct.
18. When man practiceth destruction and
selfishness, his inspiration is indirectly from
Me, through the conflict of his surroundings.
19. And thus becometh he evil, instead of
good.
20. By direct inspiration do I move upon all
the animals I created.
21. This I also created possible unto men,
separate from indirect inspiration.
797
5 OAHSPE.
CHAPTER V III.
A LTHOUGH all inspiration goeth from Me
to all the living, directly, yet I also cre­
ated man susceptible to indirect inspiration
from all My creations.
2. Whatsoever receivetli from Me direct', is
in harmony with Me.
3. The lily and the rose I created perfect in
their order; the female bird I inspire to build
her nest in season, perfect in her order.
4. Even so is it with all My created beings,
save man. All the rest err not, in the order I
made them; and they all fulfill the glory for
which I made them.
5. But because I made man capacitated to
receive inspiration from all things, he mani-
festeth both, evil and good; according to his
birth and surroundings, so is man good or bad.
6. Nevertheless, I created man with capacity
to comprehend this also; for, I designed him,
from the first, to work his way up to the God­
head, understanding all below him.
7. And I sent My angels to man, teaching
him how to distinguish the difference in the
inspirations upon him, that he might govern
himself accordingly.
8. And My angels said unto man: Become
thou one with thy Creator; these are His
direct inspirations:
9. |
|To love thy Creator above all else, and
thy neighbor as thyself.
10. To give delights only, and not pain.
11. To kill not.
12. To do not violently against His creatures.
13. To be considerate of the liberty of all
the living.
14. To interdict not the happiness and hope
of others, only where thou canst return a tran­
scendent glory and hope in place thereof.
15. Eor these are direct inspirations from
thy Creator.
16. But these are thy evil inspirations, 0
man, these come from thy birth and surround­
ings, formerly called satan:
17. To kill.
18. To slander.
19. To punish.
20. To destroy Jehovih’s created beings.
21. To strive for thyself, above another.
22. To gratify thy flesh at the expense of
purity or wisdom.
23. To be false to Jehovih.
24. To be false to thyself.
25. To speak falsely.
26. To covet another’s.
27. To cohabit in the gestative period.
28. To engage in strife, or to aid and abet
conflicts, which are the fruit of carnivorous
food, transmitted in birth. |
|
CHAPTER IX.
M
AN I created with capacity to distin­
guish My direct from My indirect inspi­
rations, saith Jehovih.
2. And My angels gave him rules, whereby
he might make manifest the difference betwixt
the two.
3. Man has said: Behold, any man may say:
Thus saith Jehovih! One killeth his neigh­
bor, saying: I was thus inspired of Jehovih.
Another practiceth all goodness, and his words
are wisdom and comprehension, and he saith:
I was inspired by Jehovih!
4. I say unto thee, 0 man: In this I also
gave thee liberty; therefore, judge thou, thy­
self, which came from Me, and which from his
surroundings (satan).
5. Thou slialt be thine own judge in all
things.
. 6. Behold, I sent My God to judge thee;
hut thou shalt also judge the judgments of thy
G od; and, afterward, thou shalt judge thyself
in the same way.
7. A perpetual judge created I thee, not only
to judge thyself and all the world beside, but
thou shalt judge Me, thy Creator.
8. I have given thee many sacred books, and
I said to thee:
9. Save thou judgest them, thou shalt be
caught in a snare; I charge thee, thou shalt
accept nothing from men, nor angels, nor Gods.
10. But thou shalt rely on thine own inspira­
tion from thy Creator.
11. Such is My word which I speak to thine
own soul.
12. What cometh to thee from a man is indi­
rect inspiration; what cometh from an angel
is indirect; and what cometh from the Gods is
indirect.
13. No direct inspiration of Me can come to
thee from a book, nor a sermon, nor from any­
thing in all My creations, but only from Me,
thy Creator.
14. Though one man receive direct inspire
tion from Me, and he write it in a book, yet,
when it cometh to thee, it is indirect inspira­
tion, and is not binding upon thee, only so far
as My direct inspiration upon thee moveth
thee to receive it.
798
BOOK OF I N S P I R A T I O N . 6
15. Yet, not all men created I with the same
clearness to perceive Me, and to frame My wis­
dom in words.
1G. Few only will turn away from the inspira­
tion of the world, and come unto Me.
17. Many profess Me in words, but they do
not fulfill My inspiration in practice.
18. My words come easily to the pure in
heart; and My wisdom showeth itself in the
frame of their speech.
19. For I give them words, even as I give to
the animal inspiration to do perfectly and wisely
the parts for which I created them.
20. Behold, I show the dumb spider how to
weave its geometrical net; is it greater wonder
for Me, to give words of wisdom to a righteous
man ?
21. Or to put him in the way of receiving
My revelations ?
22. Or to show him the harmony and glory
of My creations ?
CHAPTER X.
I
N the first creation none heard Me, or saw
Me, saith Jehovih.
2. And, even to this day, many men deny
Me and My Person.
3. To teach thee, 0 man, that thou shouldst
be considerate of thy brother’s talents, behold,
what a labor for My Gods and ministering
angels!
4. To show thee that no two men see alike
anything I created;
5. To make thee cautious, that, because thou
canst not hear Me, thou shalt not judge thy
brother who can hear Me ;
6. To induce thee thus and thus, without
interfering with thy liberty;
7. To make thee watchful, to learn by thine
own inspiration from M e;
8. To make thee skeptical to others’ versions
of My words, and yet make thee try to discover
My words and My Person, of thine own self,
to see Me and hear Me.
9. Now, behold, in the olden times, only here
and there one, in all the world, could be made
to comprehend Me.
10. As thou mayest say to the beast in the
field, or to the dog, the most knowing of ani­
mals : Jehovih! Jehovih!
11. And they will not hear thee understand-
ingly :
12. So was it with nearly all the world, in
the olden time.
13. To-day, I have quickened many.
14. To-morrow, the whole of the people in
all the world shall know Me.
15. This is the progress I created possible
unto thee ; this road shalt thou travel.
16. Thou hast blockaded the way against Me
on every side.
17. Thou hast put Me away, and said: Natu­
ral law ! Moral law ! Divine law ! Instinct!
Reflection! Intuition ! Second sight!
18. I say unto thee: I have abolished all
these things. I will have them no more, for­
ever !
19. I have no laws; I do by virtue of Mine
own Presence.
20. I am not far away; behold, I am with
thee.
21. I gave no instinct to any creature under
the sun. By My Presence they do what they
do.
22. I give no tuition by intuition ; I am the
Cause to all, and for all.
23. I am the most easily understood of all
things.
24. My Hand is ready to whomsoever will
reach forth unto Me.
25. My Voice is ready and clear to whomso­
ever will turn away from other things, and
away from philosophers and ambiguous words,
serving Me in good works.
26. My Light is present, and answereth unto
all who follow their all highest knowledge.
CHAPTER XI.
SEEK not to force My gospels, and entice
followers unto this, or that, saith Jehovih.
2. Neither go about preaching, saying: Thus
saith Jehovih!
3. Let all men hear Me in their own way.
4. No man shall follow another.
5. I will have no sect.
6. I will have no creed.
7. I am not exclusive; but I am with all My
living creatures.
8. To those who choose Me, practicing their
all highest light, I am a shield and fortification
against all darkness, and against all evil and
contention.||
9. Thou shalt not establish Me by man’s
laws, nor by the government of man, saith
Jehovih.
10. Nor establish by man’s laws or govern­
ment any book or revelation, saying: Behold,
this is Jehovih’s book.
799
OAHSPE.
11. To keep man from interfering with, man,
this hath been great labor.
12. To teach man to comprehend liberty,
especially as to thought and as to knowledge,
this hath been a great labor.
13. Eor he falleth easily under the inspira­
tion of his surroundings, and falleth under the
teachings and persuasions of his brother.
14. Because he cometh from My hand into
the world in innocence, a helpless infant.
15. And his elder brothers take advantage of
his innocence, and teach him their own knowl­
edge, instead of directing him to Me.
16. And his elder brothers were in darkness
themselves, and their elder brothers before
them.
17. I said unto man: Be free ! Learn to
know liberty ! Think for thyself ! Study thy
Creator in all things, and in thyself in particu­
lar !
18. Turn thou away from thy elder brothers;
come thou to the All Highest Fountain.
19. Be not confounded with abstruse reason­
ings ; cut all things short, Godlike; learn thou
of the Creator and His creations, there is noth­
ing more.
20. Thou art one of the seeds of Jehovih,
and wert planted by His Hand. Be thou free
from all the world.
CHAPTER XII.
M
AN only, of all My created animals,
created I not perfect in his order, saith
Jehovih.
2. The most devoid of knowledge, and the
most helpless of animals, created I man.
3. I gave not to the bird to improve her
feathers; nor yet to improve her species; nor
gave I her a book as to the manner of building
her nest, nor as to her behavior with other
birds.
4. Nor said I to the hare: Beware of foxes,
or go thou, teach thy young to depend on their
ileetness.
5. And yet, both, birds and beasts, move by
My inspiration, perfectly in the order I made
them; the bird doeth her work, and the hare
fleeth from the fox.
6. But the child of man will put its finger in
a serpent’s mouth, and the child will also eat
any deadly poison.
7. Thus differently created I man from all
other things on earth; but I gave him the
foundation whereon he might attain to perfec­
tion in all the attributes of My other living
creatures.
8. And I said to man: Be thou observant of
what thou shalt eat and drink, and where thou
slialt dwell by day, and sleep by night.
9. For all things shall write upon thy soul
the character and kind whereof they are made.
10. If thou wilt be gentle, like a lamb, and
non-resistant and docile, so thou mayest obtain
great knowledge, feed thou upon herbs and
fruits and cereals.
11. And thy blood shall be pure and cool,
and charged with food for tliy spirit, in peace
and love.
12. But if thou wilt be ferocious, like a car­
nivorous beast, then thou shalt feed upon flesh
and fish, and thy blood shall be hot, and thy
spirit shall be stirred with passion and anger
and contention and tattling and war and jeal­
ousy and love of vengeance.
13. For whatsoever thou chargest thy blood
with, shall be charged upon thy spirit.
14. Because thou canst not feed on fish nor
flesh but through destruction unto death, even so,
destruction unto death shall come upon thy soul.
15. From thine own blood shall thy spirit be
inspired, even according to what thy blood con-
taineth.
16. As through corpor thy corporeal part is
nurtured, so through the gaseous, atmospherean
part is thy spirit nurtured.
17. |
|Woman said: Behold, I kill not any
lamb, nor bird, nor fish. Others kill them, but
I eat them. |
|
18. To kill My lambs and birds, and whatso­
ever I created alive, is a simple act, saith Jeho­
vih. Let no man waste much speech because
of such destructions.
19. It is the contamination of the blood of
man by carnivorous food, whereon thou shalt
ponder.
20. Like unto like created I all the living.
Whosoever maketh himself carnivorous, can­
not escape conflict and contention within his
own members, soul and body.
21. Until the earth was circumscribed, I
gave man carnivorous food; to-day, I make it
poison to him.
22. And man shall turn away from it ; and
the smell of it shall sicken him ; and the sight
of blood shall fill him with horror.
23. The butcher shall be ashamed of his
vocation; Iris neighbors shall say to him :
Thou stinkest of blood !
24. Because thou gavest us flesh, we also
drank to drunkenness.
800
BOOK OF I N S P I R A T I O N . 8
25. Because thou gavest us flesh, we also did
smoke and take narcotics.
26. Because thou gavest us flesh, we are
rotten with catarrh, and wasted in the lungs.
27. Because we feasted on flesh, Jehovih
answered us in corruptible flesh.
28. Lo, we stink from the sole of our feet to
the crown of our heads.
29. And our offspring are born into the
world so helpless and corrupt that half of them
die in infancy. |
[
30. Jehovih said: When I command the
nations of the earth to peace, behold I raise
My hand above the carnivorant’s head.
31. As there was a time when I created
every animal perfect in its order; so also shall
such a time come unto man.
32. And now is the dawn thereof. Hence, I
named it kosmon.
33. As the spider learneth to build her net
without a book, and the bees to dwell in a
queendom in peace and industry without
books and written laws and instructions as
how to do this and that, even so, now is a new
birth to the generations of My people.
34. By My direct inspiration upon them shall
they learn to do all things perfect, in the order
of man for which I created him.
35. Man shall know how to do things easily,
and without the long labor of books, and with­
out showing, or explanations.
36. As of old, I commanded thee to have
dominion over every living thing I created;
so, now, I command thee to take the earth and
the waters of the earth and the air above the
earth into thy dominion also.
37. And thou shalt rule over them; to drive
away the heat, and bring the cold; to drive
away the cold, and bring the heat, as thou wilt,
for the benefit of all the living.
38. To accomplish which, thou shalt now,
first of all, adapt thyself to thy Creator, accord­
ing to My highest Light upon thee:
39. To put away thine own inharmony in
thy blood and flesh, and in thy soul.
40. Opening the way for My inspiration to
come direct to thee, that thou mayest be one
with Me.
CHAPTER X III.
MAN saith: If I cannot add one jot or
tittle to my corporeal body, and it is all
built up by Jehovih, then, indeed, it is His.
2. Neither am I accountable whether it be
well made, or well preserved.
3. And if I cannot make one new thought
nor idea, then are all my thoughts and ideas
Jehovih’s, given by Jehovih, or by His crea­
tions.
4. Neither, then, am I accountable for my
thoughts, nor behavior, whether they be good
or bad. Verily, then I am not responsible for
anything, neither what I am, nor what I do,
nor for what becometh of me. I am but an
automaton; I, myself, am nothing.
5. Jehovih saith: Because I gave thee lib­
erty, thou art responsible for all thou art, and
for all thou makest thyself, and for all that
shall come to thee, and for thy peace and hap­
piness, both in this world and the next.
6. Liberty I gave thee as to what thou
shouldst eat, and shouldst wear to cover thy­
self, and where thou shouldst abide.
7. I gave thee liberty to build thy house in
thine own way; but, behold, such liberty I
gave not to the bird, as to her nest, nor to the
beaver, nor to the ant, nor to any other living
creature.
8. Liberty I gave thee as to whether thou
should eat herbs or flesh. But such liberty I
gave not to any other living creature.
9. To the sheep and the horse I said: Eat
ye of herbs; to the tiger and lion: Eat ye of
flesh.
10. To thee I gave liberty to make thyself
carnivorous, or herbivorous, or omnivorous.
It. Whatsoever thou didst put in thy mouth,
and it united with thy blood, and entered thy
body, behold, it was by My labor and by My
power it was accomplished.
12. Verily was I thy workman.
13. All that thou didst in the matter was to
choose. Thou wert, in that respect, the mas­
ter, and I thy servant. And, behold, I made
not the servant responsible for the master’s
behavior.
14. Because thou madest thyself carnivorous,
the fault is thine own. I placed before thee
the herbivorous animals and the carnivorous
animals; and I gave thee eyes to look upon
them as to their behavior, whether ferocious
and destructive, or peaceful, patient and doc­
ile.
15. And I spake unto thy soul, saying:
Look, judge for thyself as to what thou shalt
eat; behold the order of My creations and the
result upon the living.
16. Hence, thou art accountable unto thy­
self, and responsible unto all the world for
having made thy corporeal body as thou hast.
17. I give thee liberty to receive thy in­
801
9 OAHSPE.
spiration from drunkards and harlots and
fighters; or from men of wisdom, or the inno­
cence of childhood, or the virtue of a virgin.
18. Even so, in regard to tliy spirit, thy
soul, thy mind, thy ideas and thy thoughts, I
gave thee liberty in the same way.
19. To behold a city of corruption, or the
country, with pure air and trees, and flowers
and mountains and valleys.
20. And I spake unto thy soul, saying:
Choose thou what thou wilt to be the inspira­
tion of thy mind and spirit and soul; behold,
I, thy Creator, am thy servant to impregnate
thee with thoughts and ideas. All thou hast
to do, is to choose.
21. Yea, I said: I will even take thee to which­
ever place and condition thou mayest choose. |
|
22. And, now, because I gave thee this ex­
treme liberty, and thou hast chosen, behold,
thou art accountable to thyself for thine every
thought and idea; and for thy spirit and soul,
and in thy behavior to all the world.
23. With liberty I bestowed responsibility
also.
24. I am the Power, the Light and the Life.
25. In one thing, thou art not responsible
nor an automaton, and that is thine own en­
tity, thine own self, thine own I Am.
26. Thyself I gave to thyself, and even at
the zero of thy entity, I said: Go thou, make
thyself. All other animals I created perfectly
with Mine own hands, but to thee I gave
liberty to make thyself, even as thou hast.
Yea, even in this, I said: Choose thou, and I
will do the labor Myself for thee.
27. So that, choice and liberty were the sum
total which I gave to thee.
28. Now, therefore, 0 man, as I gave choice
and liberty unto thee, so shalt thou give the
same unto thy neighbor and associate.
29. Without these, there is no responsibility;
with these, all responsibility.
30. Choose thou thine own food, and raiment
and thine house; and choose thou the place,
and provide the way for whatever inspiration
thou mayest, still thou shalt be responsible in
a ll; whether the result be good or evil accord­
ing to thy choice, whether thou fawn upon
satan, or emulate thy Creator.
CHAPTER XIV.
THESE are Tae’s revelations of Jehovih’s
times and seasons, appointed unto the
chosen:
2. The shortest day on the northern line of
the sun shall be the end of the year, and shall
be called old year’s day, saith Jehovih.
3. And the first day thereafter, when the
sun on his southern course starteth towards
the north, shall be the beginning of the year,
and shall be called new year’s day.
4. These are My times of the end and the
beginning of a year, which I created ; and I
made the earth and the sun as My written
testimony thereof.
5. And I blessed and sanctified the old
year’s day and the new year’s day, and I ap­
pointed them to be holy days, that men might
remember the order and the system of My
works.
6. And I said unto man : Prom one new
year’s day until the succeeding one shall be
called one year, for it is one completed oseil-
lation of the earth, and of her revolution in the
orbit where I placed her.
7. Therefore, what thou hast completed
within a year shall be remembered by thee,
that thou mayest judge thyself therein.
8. And, on the old year’s day, thou shalt
render up in full forgiveness in all things
against all people.
9. And with the setting of the sun on that
day, thou shalt be purged of all animosity and
claims against every man, woman and child, in
all the world.
10. And thou shalt make acknowledgment
of this in words and songs and prayers, and
in tokens, of no intrinsic value, to whomso­
ever thou shalt have offended during the past
year.
11. Tae said : Eor which reason the old
year’s day shall be named, the Most Holy
Sabbath Day. Behold, it is in accord with
His heavenly kingdoms. And it shall be with
thee a day of spiritual communion, and of
praise to Jehovih and His creations ; with
music and oratory, and ceremonies, and pro­
cessions for thy youth, orderly and well dis­
ciplined.
12. And, on the new year’s day, thou shalt
rejoice and sing and dance ; mingling together,
old and young, even as the old year and the
new year are joined together, side by side.
13. The seventh day of the new year shall
be thy next sabbath day, and it shall be a day
of rest and of spiritual communion and praise
to Jehovih and His creations, with singing and
oratory.
14. So also shall every seventh day be a
sabbath day ; for which reason seven days
802
BOOK OF IN S P I R A T IO N . 10
shall be one week, being six days for labor,
and one for rest and worship.
15. For this hath been proven in all the
world to be good for man.
16. These, then, shall be the moon’s days
(months):
17. The first new moon’s day after new year’s
day shall be the beginning of the first month;
and the completion of the fourth quarter of the
moon shall be the completion of the first month,
and it shall be named First month.
18. The next four quarters of the moon shall
be the second month, and it shall be named
Second month.
19. And the next completed four quarters of
the moon shall be named Third mouth. And
so on, to the completion of the year.
20. Such, then, shall be the months in any
and every year, for these are the moon’s times
as Jehovih created them.
21. Neither shall it matter or not whether
the months overlap a new year’s day; as they
are created and moved by the Almighty, even
so shall man compute and register them.
22. (|
|For example, a new year’s day may
come upon the twentieth day of the Twelfth
moon or on another moon’s day, still, as they
fall, so shall they be numbered in truth. |
|
)
23. As the moon’s time differeth to different
continents, so shall the months’ times of the
inhabitants of different continents be locally
unto them.
24. But, in the intercourse between different
nations on different continents, the month times
shall not be enumerated.
25. But, in all such cases, the year and the
days thereof shall be named.
26. (|
|As, for example, the seventieth year
and the ninety-sixth day. |
|
)
27. And it shall come to pass that the sab­
bath days all around the world shall be the
same day unto all people, even with the travel
of the sun.
28. Whereby, Jehovih’s heavenly kingdoms
shall be in concert with mortals, as to times
and seasons in all things.
CHAPTER XY.
H O LY COMPACT D A Y .
A S Jehovih, through His God, bequeathed
to the children of Guatama a government
unfettered by the name of God or Lord or
Savior, so Jehovih sanctified the day of the
ratification and the signing and sealing of His
compact (American Constitution), as the D a y
of th e H oly Se a l .
2. And the sign thereof He made, A h a n d
H O LD IN G A QU ILL.
3. Which shall be the master’s sign of salu­
tation in the lodge on the day and evening
commemorating the same.
4. And Jehovih made the answer to the
master’s sign, T he h o ld in g u p (by the mem­
ber of the lodge) of a piece of p a p e r , signi­
fying, Co n stitu tio n .
5. Therefore it was said : The master saluted
on the sign, D a y of th e H oly Se al, and the
lodge answered in the sign, Co n stitu tio n .
6. And Jehovih said : Remember this day,
and keep it holy, to the end of the world, for
hereat was the beginning of the liberty of man !
CHAPTER XYI.
ES D A Y .
A S Jehovih, through His God, pulled aside
the veil of heaven,1saying:
2. Let My angels forth; together shall con­
verse the living and the dead.
3. So sanctified He the day when the angels
of heaven were made known to mortals. (March
31, 1848.)
4. And Jehovih said: Remember this day,
and keep it holy, to the end of the world. For,
without books and without arguments, behold,
1 have proven unto you the continued life of
the soul of man!
CHAPTER XVII.
fr ee d o m ’s d a y .
A S Jehovih, through His God, delivered
into freedom Guatama’s slaves, and, thus,
to general slavery dealt the final blow, so Je­
hovih blessed that day, and sanctified it.
2. Jehovih said: Remember the day of proc­
lamation of freedom, for it is My day, which
I bequeath unto you as a day of freedom in all
righteous jollification, which ye shall keep
every year, and commemorate, to the end of
the world.2
CHAPTER XVIII.
H O LY KOSM ON D A Y .
B
ESIDE the above, Jehovih gave one more
holy day, Kosmon Day, which He also
commanded to be kept in commemoration of
803
11 OAHSPE.
another matter, which Jehovih commanded to
be secret with the Faithists for a certain period
of time, the which time hath not expired to
this day. Therefore, the day of kosmon is still
a secret with the Faithists.
2. And Jehovih said: That mortals and
angels may live and laboiqin concert, behold,
I have given certain days, whereby large con­
gregations on earth may be met by My organic
heavens, in reunion, mortals and. angels, for
the happiness of both, and for the glory of My
works.
3. Now, behold also, as by My Presence I
inspire thee, when thou laborest with Me, and
thou art doing righteously, and with purity
and love, so also is it with thee, in regard to
My angels.
4. When thou makest and keepest thy cor­
poreal body pure and clean, My angels, who
are pure and clean, come to thee to aid thee,
and to enlighten thee.
5. And when thou puttest away all unclean
thoughts and all selfish desires, and seekest to
obtain wisdom, and to learn how best thou
canst help thy fellow-man, behold, My angels
of light and wisdom come to thee, and, by
virtue of their presence, which thou seest not,
they inspire thy soul in the light of thy Cre­
ator.
6. Man hath said: I will not be a seer, nor
a prophet, nor a su’is, nor sar’gis; verily, I
will not have angels with me to teach me, or
to give me any light or knowledge under the
sun.
7. Whatever I can attain, it shall be mine
own. Wiser is it for me to attain to know,
and to do things of myself, than have angels
come and give to me, or manifest through me.
8. Verily, I will not be used, by man nor
angel, for it would be prostituting my flesh and
my spirit to others.
9. Behold, my body was given to me for
mine own use and profit, to establish and
develop mine own soul unto eternal happiness
in individuality. |
|
10. Alike unto all people is My Presence,
saith Jehovih. I am unto the just and the
unjust; I am everywhere, both, in darkness
and in light.
11. Because thou art in darkness, thou be-
holdest not Me.
12. Because thou art imperfect in flesh and
spirit, thou deniest Me.
13. Because thou art confounded with inhar­
mony, thou believest not in Me.
14. He, who hath not an ear for music, dis­
covereth not a tune; even as he that is dis­
cordant denieth My Person.
15. To the pure there is no selfishness,
neither for earthly things, nor for their own
flesh and spirit.
16. A pure man is as a clear glass; he can
see out of himself, and, so, perceive My angels
and Me.
17. Through the pure man, pure angels can
see mortality as well as spirituality. Their
presence inspiretli him to understand all things.
18. As much with the man that is not a seer,
or a su’is, are the angels, as with those that
are seers, or su’is, or sar’gis.
19. Because thou seest not, nor hearest an­
gels, only proveth thy darkness, but proveth
not the absence of angels.
20. To the dark, come the dark; with the
dark, abide the dark, both, angels and mortals.
21. More is the man of darkness ruled by
angels, than is the man of light.
22. Behold, I created thee not to fill any
place in all the world for thine own self’s sake.
23. Neither gave I thy flesh nor thy spirit
to be thine only.
24. These, also, shalt thou relinquish, say­
ing : To Thee, 0 Jehovih, I give a ll; my flesh,
my spirit, my mind, and all my service, to be
Thine forever.
25. Thou shalt say: Appropriate Thou me,
soul and body, in whatsoever way Thou canst,
that I may do the most good unto others, mor­
tals and angels. |
|
26. Until thou attainest this, thou shalt not
hear My Voice, nor see My Hand.
27. As I gave away Myself, and thus created
all things, so shalt thou follow in My foot­
steps, in order to become one with Me.
28. Herein lieth the secret of wisdom, truth,
love and power, time without end.
END OF BOOK OF IN SPIR A T IO N .
1 And Jehovih gave the sign, A han d h o ld in g a sid e a v e il ,
signifying, H eaven U n v e il e d , as the master’s sign in the lodge on
the day and evening commemorating the same. And He gave to
the members of the lodge to answer in the sign, T h r e e Cl a p ­
p in g s , signifying, E n d l e s s J o y !
2 And Jehovih gave to man as the master’s sign in the lodge, A
HAND POIN TIN G TOW ARD A PE N , signifying, I H AVE PRO VED THIS
m ig h tie r t h a n the sw o r d . A n d lle gave to the members in the
lodge to answer in the sign, Cl aspe d h a n d s, a n d lo o k in g u p­
w a r d , signifying, In T h y P r a is e , J e h o v ih !
804
BOOK OF JEHOVIH’S KINGDOM ON EARTH,
WHICH CONTAINETH WITHIN IT
THE BOOK OF SHALAM.
ALL OF WHICH IS ANTE-SCRIPT.1
CHAPTER I.
I
N' the early days of the kosmon era, after
the revelations of the Father’s kingdom on
earth had been published, and was known
abroad over all the world, there went forth
many, in Jehovih’s name, to accomplish unto
the resurrection of man, and for the glory of
the Almighty, the new kingdom.
2. Foremost, amongst the many, there came
out of U z! one who was esteemed wise and
good above all others; and because he was a
representative man, the people named him,
Tae.
3. And Tae prayed unto Jehovih for light
and knowledge as to how best he could accom­
plish good unto the resurrection of the race of
man.
4. And Jehovih answered Tae, saying: Go,
bring My people out of Uz, and found them in
a place by themselves; for now is the begin­
ning of the founding of My kingdom on earth.
5. Tae answered, saying: Behold, 0 Jeho­
vih, I have gathered together many men and
many women, and they all profess a desire to
found Thy kingdom.
6. One desireth to be a teacher ; another, to
be a superintendent; another, an overseer;
another, an adviser.
7. And they are all learned and wise and
good in their own way; but, alas, they are
neither workers nor capitalists, the two chief
of all.that I require.
8. Now, I pray Thee, 0 Father, what shall
thy servant do ?
9. Jehovih answered Tae, saying: Go, seek,
and bring out of Uz orphan babes and castaway
infants and foundlings.
10. And these shall he thy colony, which
shall be My new kingdom on earth.
11. Tae inquired: What can a man do with
babes ? How shall I feed them ? Moreover I
have not money to hire nurses.
12. Jehovih said:. Have faith in thy Cre­
ator ; in a good work done unto My little ones,
behold, I will provide.
13. Whatsoever thou dost unto them, even
so dost thou unto Me, wherein thou slialt not
fail.
14. Neither shalt thou strive to teach any
adult man or woman who is without faith in
Me. Behold, My people are infants in this era.
15. Deal thou with them, and with such
only as are willing to serve them; for as much
as they are served, even so am I served also.
CHAPTER II.
SO, Tae gathered together orphan babes and
castaway infants and foundlings, a great
number.
2. And a woman named Es,3 heard of Tae
and his work, and she came to him, inquiring:
3. How can a man attend babes ? Now,
because I have heard of thy work, behold, I
have come to thee to labor for our Father in
heaven.
4. Tae said: Whoso would labor for our
Father in heaven, let her do unto these little
ones.
5. Es said : Even for that I am before thee ;
I beseech thee, put me to work.
6. Tae inquired: Knowest thou the care of
infants ? And she answered him, saying:
7. In such labor, alas, I have had no ex­
perience, but I know Jehovih will guide me
aright; otherwise, He had not inspired my
soul unto the work. All wisdom is possible
through Jehovih.
805
2 OAHSPE.
8. Tae said: Such being thy faith, thou art
the first chosen woman in the Father’s new
kingdom. Go, therefore, and fulfill thy part,
and may the Father be with thee.
9. So, Es went to work, accomplishing what
was required unto the infants.
10. And Tae went again unto Uz, and
brought hence more infants; many more than
were possible unto the care of one woman.
11. So Tae issued a call, to w it:
12. Wanted, fifty men and women, who are
Faithists in Jehovih, and are willing to take
part in founding the Father’s kingdom on earth
as it is in heaven!
13. And there came, in answer to Tae’s call,
thousands and thousands of men and women.
14. And Tae cried out: 0 Jehovih, what
shall Thy servant do ? Behold, I asked for
fifty men and women, and here are come thou­
sands and thousands.
15. Jehovih answered Tae, saying: Try
them My Son, and see if they be worthy. As
many as are prepared, thou shalt accept; as
many as are not prepared, thou shalt not ac­
cept. Behold, there is room for millions!
16. And Tae spake unto the multitude,
saying: I called for fifty men and women, and,
lo, here are thousands, willing to take part in
founding the Father’s kingdom on earth.
17. Now, behold, when I saw your great
number, I cried ou t: 0 Jehovih, what shall
Thy servant do ? I did ask for but fifty, and
there are come here thousands and thousands.
18. And Jehovih answered, saying: Try
them, My Son ; as many as are prepared, ac­
cept ; as many as are not prepared, accept not.
Behold, there is room for millions.
19. Now, therefore, how say ye: What is
the founding of the Father’s kingdom ? Who
here knoweth the way, and how to take part
therein ?
CHAPTER III.
IT came to pass that many of the multitude
answered Tae; and of all that thus spake,
the following were the chief words, to w it:
2. Sutta said: To do what I am willing to
do, is to take part in founding the Father’s
kingdom; therefore, hear me :
3. To adjust capital and labor, that each
shall contribute to the advantage and glory of
both.
4. That the capitalist shall receive good
profit on his capital; and the laborer high and
uniform wages.
5. To adjust them that they can live side by
side, equally, and neither above nor under the
other.
6. That they may have extensive domains
and beautiful joarks; excellent factories; virtu­
ous and industrious people.
7. The part that I am capacitated to fill in
this great work, is to reveal the key and the
plans ; to explain all things to both, the capi­
talists and laborers. |
|
8. After that manner, Sutta went on at
great length, and he was followed by several
others, who had similar plans, but each one
doubted the other’s capacity, as being qualified
for the work.
9. Aborn spake next. He said: I have heard
Sutta’s project. It is a farce. Capital and
labor cannot harmonize.
10. And even if they could, it would be a
worldly basis. It would not be the Father’s
kingdom.
11. In His kingdom there shall be neither
buying nor selling; neither servant nor master.
12. Now, behold, I say to you all, men and
women, as such, cannot harmonize together.
They are diverse in all their ideas and general
knowledge.
13. The only way to accomplish the Father’s
kingdom is through infants, to raise them up
in the way they should go.
14. But, even with these, failure will result,
save their pre-natal condition is provided for.
15. Therefore, the part I am capacitated to
accomplish is, to become father to innumera­
ble offspring, by most exalted and enlightened
women.
16. Also, I have great knowledge of physi­
ology, mentology and psychology, and I would
be willing to be examiner and dictator as to
prospective parents. |
|
17. Thus spake Aborn at great length; and
others spake in like manner, but each one pre­
ferred himself as the prospective father of the
offspring.
18. Next spake Thurtis. She said: This it
is, to found the Father’s kingdom on earth;
hear me, that ye may understand.
19. Behold, all things shall be possible
through woman, especially as to raising up a
new generation on the earth.
20. During the period of gestation, man
should not approach woman.
21. Nay, in that period, woman should be
treated as a very Goddess.
22. Her every want and whim and notion
should be gratified to the utmost.
806
BO O K OF J E H O V I H ’ S K IN G D O M ON E A R T H . 3
23. When she spake, or raised her finger,
during the gestative period, every man and
woman and child should run to do her service.
24. And she should be surrounded by cul­
tured and exalted companions, and charmed
with sweet music and delightful entertain­
ments.
25. Yea, as a very Goddess should all men
do her reverence.
26. When such a woman hath a child born,
behold, there will be one child for the Father’s
kingdom.
27. Now, behold, give me the choice as to
who shall father my children, and such a part
shall be my part, to help found the Father’s
kingdom.
28. After Thurtis, then spake many of the
women after the same manner, and each one
doubted the other’s capacity to fill the place,
but recommended herself.4
29. Amos spake next. He said: I have
heard all these beautiful systems; I am ready
for any of them. Behold, I am a landscape
gardener.
30. The part I can do is to lay out the
grounds; for plots of flowers and grass and
ornamental trees.
31. But ye shall provide laborers for me.
I work not with mine own hands; I plan and
design; my capacity is in my talent and in my
education. |
|
32. After Amos, then spake five hundred
physicians, each one offering himself, to be
the physician for the Father’s kingdom. Then
spake an equal number of lawyers in the same
way.
33. Next spake a thousand teachers of the
piano, each one offering to teach the young for
the Father’s kingdom.
34. And now, with slow and solemn aspect,
rose up and spake five hundred priests of
Brahma.
35. They said: We have heard; we have
seen. Behold, the Father’s kingdom is none
of these.
36. It is the second coming of Brahma. He
shall come in flames of fire, from the east and
west and north and south.
37. By the magic touch of his wand, the dif­
ferent castes of men shall be sorted; and the
dead shall come forth from their graves, and
Brahma shall judge them.
38. The sky shall be filled with holy angels,
the spirits of the saints, with wings of fire and
with tails a mile in length.
39. And the elect of the earth shall rise in
glory, and be immersed in Nirvana forever,
even at the feet of Ormazd.
40. This it is, to found the Father’s king­
dom on earth. After which, all flesh shall
come into life free from sin ; the corruptible
shall turn incorruptible forever.
41. Now, behold, our part, in founding His
kingdom, is to preach unto you Brahma’s ever­
lasting gospels. I
42. Next to speak, were five hundred Bud-
hist priests. They said :
43. We have heard and seen also. Our learn­
ing, no man may gainsay. As for Brahma and
his second coming, for that matter, he never
came once.
44. None have seen him, nor found his
dwelling-place. Therefore, he is but a super­
stition, a relic of the dark ages.
45. Hear us, then, as to the founding of the
Father’s kingdom on earth :
46. It is the second coming of Budha, when
every knee shall bow down, and own him Lord
of all the world.
47. Behold, Budha shall come with two
swords and twelve spears, and he shall have
ten thousand brides !
48. When Budha shall blow his breath upon
the earth, the graves shall be opened, and the
dead shall come forth, and speak.
49. And Budha shall judge them ; according
to caste, so will he separate them.
50. And ten hundred times ten thousand
million angels, with fiery wings and with tails
two miles in length, shall overspread the earth.
51. And all flesh shall become incorruptible;
the lion shall eat straw, and the lamb shall re­
joice in its kin without fear. |
|
52. Next spake five hundred Kriste’yan
priests. They said :
53. What profanity we have heard ! Be­
hold, as for Brahma and Budha, they are but
myths. It is the second coming of Ivriste,
which is the founding of the Father’s king­
dom.
54. Kriste said: Think not I came to send
peace on earth ; I came not to send peace, but
a sword.5
55. It is he that shall subdue all the world,
and make men bow down, and own him Lord
of all.
56. He shall come in a sea of fire, with mill­
ions of archangels. And when his servant,
Gabriel, bloweth his horn upon the earth, the
graves shall open, and the dead shall come
forth, and speak to the living.
57. And he shall judge them ; separating
807
4 OAHSPE.
them, the bad to everlasting torments, and the
good, who have worshipped him, shall rise and
inherit everlasting bliss.
58. Now, behold, the part we can do in
founding the Father’s kingdom, is to preach and
explain the beautiful doctrines of our blessed
Lord. |
|
59. When many others had thus spoken, Tae
said unto them: I called for such as had faith
in Jehovih. I am not in the labor of founding
a kingdom for Brahma, nor Budha, nor Kriste,
nor for any one but the Creator, our heavenly
Father.
60. As for the graves opening, I have noth­
ing to do with that; though, for the spirits of
the dead appearing face to face with the living,
behold, that hath been accomplished now for
more than thirty years, to hundreds of thou­
sands of good people. So with that I have
nothing to do either.
61. But since ye have not proved the com­
munion of angels during all these years, how
hope ye to labor for the Father’s kingdom ?
To all such I say, go your ways; I have no use
for you.
62. At once, one-half of the multitude rose
up, and departed, mocking, saying: The spirits
of the dead! We will have none such, but
angels with wings, and with fleecy tails a mile
in length.
63. Tae inquired once more: Who, here, hath
faith in Jehovih, and, if we labor together in
His name, living our all highest light, that His
kingdom will be founded ?
64. Hundreds and hundreds said: It depends
on having plenty of money and a good planta­
tion. With money, it can be accomplished;
without money, it cannot be.
65. Tae said • Your faith being in money, I
have no use for you. I called for those with
faith in Jehovih ! Therefore, go your ways also.
So, many more of the multitude departed, re­
turning to Uz also, even as had the others.
66. Tae asked again: Who here are capable
and desirous of being leaders, let them speak ?
67. More than a thousand cried out: Here !
That is my part. I am suited to it by nature
and by experience and by great wisdom.
68. Tae said unto them: Behold the spirit of
the age in which we live ! No man desireth a
leader or dictator over him. For that reason,
go your ways also; I have no use for you.
69. Tae asked again: Who here have made
a study of this subject, and are prepared to be
lecturers and teachers and advisers, let them
speak ?
70. And, behold, another thousand cried out:
That is my strength. I can explain all sub­
jects ; of diet, clothing, social intercourse, health,
marriage and worship!
71. Others cried out: I am a trance speaker;
I have angel guides two thousand years
old!
72. Others said: I am inspirational; the
ancient prophets are my spirit guides! St.
John, the revelator ! Confucius ! Hosea!
King Solomon ! Daniel!
73. Tae interrupted them, saying: Behold,
the signs of the times show us that, as to
founding the Father’s kingdom by -words, ser­
mons and lectures, they are worthless.
74. See here; I have gathered together hun­
dreds of helpless orphan babes. They care for
none of the things that have been offered ; they
need washing and feeding, and their clothes are
to wash and mend.
75. Who, so believing in the Father, that he
will give up self, in all respects, and work for
these little ones, having faith that Jehovih
will provide justly aud sufficiently unto all, let
him come.
76. You all do know how the farmers go
about gathering up calves and colts and the
young of all sorts; and they take them to a
good place and feed them; and when they are
grown up, they are the choice in market.
77. Now, behold, there are thousands of
fatherless and destitute children in Uz, which,
left to themselves, either die or grow up to be
thieves, robbers and murderers.
78. These are cheaper than calves and young
colts. And they may be raised to be of more
profit to themselves and to the state, than ten
times as many cattle.
79. Who, then, is ready to join in this labor,
without money and without price, devoting his
life to training them up to practical knowledge,
not only of books, but to use their hands in
trades and factories, that these little ones may
become useful citizens, and a joy to themselves
and glory to the Father. Let such speak.
80. And, now, behold, fifty men and women
spake, saying: Take us, in Jehovih’s name.
We have neither whim nor conceit to carry
out.
81. We are willing and anxious to go to this
labor, and we know Jehovih will provide unto
us. From day to day His Light will shine
upon us, and we shall know what to do.
82. Thy children shall be our children; thy
hardships our hardships. We come not for
rest, nor glory, nor for comforts; but we come
808
B O O K OF J E H O V I H ’ S K I N G D O M ON E A R T H . 5
to serve Jehovih in whatsoever He may give
us to do for His kingdom.
83. Tae said: In Jehovih’s name, I accept
you. Whatsoever is mine shall be yours also. |
|
84. Thus it came to pass, out of all the thou­
sands and thousands who came, only fifty were
accepted.
85. And the others went their way, mock­
ing, saying: A most beautiful Father’s king­
dom on earth!
CHAPTER IY.
H ISTO RY OF S H A 1A M , F O R M E R LY CALLED “ BOOK
OF S H A L A M .”
T
HE Voice of Jehovih came to Tae, saying:
Take thy people and go whither I will
lead thee, and ye all shall be blessed. Quite
sufficient are these, to begin the founding of
My kingdom on earth.
2. And Tae and his people went away to an
unoccupied country, by the river Shalam, so-
called because Tae had said:
3. I take the babes the Uzians would not
have, and I come to a place where the Uzians
would not live, and yet I will make it a place
of peace and plenty; therefore it shall be called
Shalam.
4. And when they had pitched their tents
and fed the children, Tae called them together
that he might speak before them.
5. Tae said: By and through Jehovih, are
all things accomplished, either directly or in­
directly.
6. If directly, by His inspiration, then are
all things well done, and in peace and right­
eousness and love and wisdom.
7. If indirectly, and through other inspira­
tion, then, indeed, is man answered in disaster
and unhappiness.
8. Foremost of all, must it be man’s aim to
receive light directly from Jehovih in regard
to all things.
9. To do which, man must approach his
Creator, in words and conduct, doing in prac­
tice the right which he perceiveth in judgment.
10. Now, therefore, from our youth up we
have repeated the prayer: Thy kingdom come
on earth as it is in heaven.
11. Yet, not one of us put forth a hand to
accomplish what we prayed for.
12. In which our prayers profaned the Al­
mighty.
13. For had we been true in heart, we had
taken hold in practice, according to our best
ability.
14. In not doing which, we were false before
Jehovih, and He could not answer our prayers
in truth.
15. Moreover, we had said to one another
from our youth u p: As ye would that others
should do unto you, do ye even so unto them.
16. Nevertheless, we served ourselves only.
17. We visited not the fatherless and mother­
less.
18. We sold not what we might, and gave to
the poor.
19. We professed faith in Jehovih, but we
manifested faith in money and in soldiers and
warfare.
20. We had said: Love the Creator with all
thy soul and heart and mind, and thy neighbor
as thyself.
21. Neither of which we fulfilled.
22. Now, therefore, we were unrighteous
toward man, and false before Jehovih.
23. In repentance and shame have we come
out of U z; because we could not fulfill the
commandments whilst dwelling in Uz. Behold,
we have come thence, to begin a new life upon
the earth.
24. That our labor and our lives may be
given unto Jehovih, with profit for the raising
up of the race of man, and for the glory of the
Almighty, let us covenant ourselves unto Him
in fullness of heart and of soul and with all
our mind, to practice all the commandments in
fullness. What say ye ?
25. The multitude answered with one voice:
We desire to covenant with Jehovih, that our
labor and our growth may contribute to the
founding of His kingdom on earth.
26. Make thou, therefore, thy covenant with
the Creator, and, that we may be in unison,
behold, we will repeat with thee thy words,
that Jehovih may be glorified therein.
27. Tae said: Hear me, then, ere we make
the covenant to Jehovih: In the heavens, the
angels surround the heavenly throne with col­
umns of fire and water; and all the space within
the circuit is named, the P l a c e o f t h e H o l y
C o v e n a n t , and it is appropriated to worship
and to sacred rites and ceremonies.
28. But places of amusement and of all other
kind of entertainments, not sacred in rites and
ceremonies, are situated external to the Place
of the Holy Covenant.
29. Now, therefore, in remembrance of Je­
hovih’s heavenly kingdoms, let us mark a cir­
cular line around about this place, and march
in procession dedicating the enclosure to the
Holy Covenant.
6 OAHSPE.
30. The multitude said: This is w ise; by
system and order and a place for all things,
harmony will answer unto us. Lead thou,
therefore, the way, and we will march with thee.
31. Then Tae marched, D r a w in g T he L in e
of T he Sacred Cir cle , and the multitude, two
abreast, marched after him.
32. Tae said: I draw the L in e of the
Sacred Cir cle unto Thee, Jehovih. In Thy
name I dedicate and enclose this, Thy P lace
of the H oly Co v e n a n t, to be Thine forever!
33. The multitude responded: May I remem­
ber Thy L in e of th e Sacred Circle, Jehovih,
and comport myself within it for Thine honor
and glory forever!
34. Within this place am I about to covenant
myself to Thee forever, as a laborer to fulfill
Thy kingdom on earth for the resurrection of
man.
35. Response : May I remember the little
ones within this Sa cred Circle, whom Thou
hast given into my charge, for whose welfare
on earth and in heaven, I am about to covenant
myself unto Thee, to make myself an example
and sacrifice before them during all my life.
36. Together: In remembrance of the pillars
of light in heaven, that surround the throne of
Thy Son, God of earth and heaven, we build
here a hedge and a fence, as a lasting testimony
that we dedicated to Thee, Jehovih, the enclosed
P lace of the Sacred Co v en an t.
CHAPTER V.
THE H O LY COVEN AN T.
T
HEN Tae and his hosts went into the midst
of the Place of the Holy Covenant; and
the hosts formed in a crescent, and Tae stood
betwixt the horns thereof.
2. And, whilst thus standing, Tae, being
moved by the Light of Jehovih upon him,
uttered the covenant, and his hosts, in concert,
uttered the words after him.
3. And these words were called, T he H oly
Co v en an t, even as they are to this day, to w it:
4. Thou, 0 Jehovih! As Thou hast declared
Thyself in the Book of Jehovih !
5. To Thee I covenant myself, to be Thine
forever! And to Thee only, 0 Jehovih !
6. And I abjure all Gods but Thee.
7. And I abjure all Lords but Thee.
8. And I abjure all Saviors but Thee.
9. In this, Thy Place of the Holy Covenant,
do I covenant myself unto Thee, to be only
Thine, and forever!
10. My corporeal body, I dedicate and cove­
nant unto Thee, to be in Thy service during all
my life.
11. Because Thou madest it out of Thine
own material, behold, it is Thine.
12. The workmanship is Thine; the material
is Thine also.
13. I have no claim upon it; unto Thee,
and for Thy service, do I resign it forever.
14. Into my charge Thou gavest it unto me,
as the habitation of my spirit.
15. Because it is Thy gift, I will care for it,
and keep it clean and pure, before Thee, that
it may be acceptable to Thee, and to the
presence of Thy holy angels.
16. My spirit I also dedicate and covenant
unto Thee, to be in Thy service forever.
17. My mind and soul, I dedicate and cove­
nant unto Thee, to be in Thy service henceforth
forever.
18. My whole self, whereof I am made, soul
and body, dedicate and covenant I unto Thee,
to be in Thy service forever.
19. Out of Thine own self madest Thou me,
soul and body, and they are Thine only, to be
used by Thee forever.
20. Appropriate Thou me, 0 Jehovih, my
corporeal body, and my spirit, my mind, my
behavior and my thoughts, to be of profit to
Thee, for founding Thy kingdom on earth.
21. And I covenant unto Thee, Jehovih, I
will search constantly into mine own every act
and deed and word and thought, to make myself
true in the practice of Thy highest Light upon
me.
22. That henceforth, forever, I will search
to find the highest Light, and I will practice
the same toward all men, women and children.
23. Unto them will I not only do as I would
be done by, but more ; I will do for them, with
all my wisdom and strength, all my life.
24. I covenant unto Thee, Jehovih, that,
since all things are Thine, I will not own nor
possess, exclusively unto myself, anything
under the sun, which may. be entrusted to me,
which any other person or persons may covet
or desire, or stand in need of.
25. Neither more will I talk of myself, either
in laudation of what I am, nor of what I have
done; but Thou shalt judge me, and hold me
accountable for shortness in word and behavior,
wherein, by any means, I may manifest self­
esteem or covetousness for fame, or the ap­
plause of men, even for any good I may have
done unto others.
26. Neither more will I censure nor criticise,
810
BOOK OF J E H O V I H ’ S K IN G D O M ON E A R T H . 7
nor blame, any man, or woman, nor any child
over fourteen years of age, as an individual,
in all the world, for any shortness in word or
deed they manifest.
27. For they are Thine, Jehovih, and not
mine, to be led or driven by me.
28. To all these Faithists, my brothers and
sisters in Thy kingdom, will I deal and think
and behave, in affiliation, as gently and truly
as were they my own blood and kin, brothers
and sisters, or father and mother.
29. And over these babes, which Thou hast
entrusted to me, will I be as loving and true
as were they mine own blood and kin, sons
and daughters.
30. According to Thy Light, which Thou
mayest bestow upon me, will I raise them up to
know Thee, and to be a glory in Thy kingdom.
31. First of my teaching unto them shall be,
to make them know Thee, and to remember
that Thy eye is upon them, and Thy hand
above them, to bless them according to their
wisdom, truth, love and purity.
32. And I will teach them the way of the
communion of Thy angels; to develop them in
su’is and sar’gis.
33. Teaching them to live for the spirit
within, rather than for corpor.
34. Teaching them by books and instru­
ments.
35. Teaching them useful trades and occu­
pations.
36. Teaching them music aud worship.
37. Teaching them dancing and gymnastics.
38. And, in all things, developing in them
all the talents Thou hast created in them, that
they may grow up to be an honor and a glory
on'the earth, and to rejoice because Thou hast
created them alive.
39. And I will emancipate them from in­
fancy at fourteen years of age; and bestow
upon them the rights of man and woman, to
their thoughts, words, deeds, choice and actions.
40. Throwing upon them, at that age, their
responsibility unto Thee, for their thoughts,
words, ideas and behavior, as fully as I claim
the same unto mine own self.
41. And now, 0 Jehovih, that this, Thy
kingdom on earth, may be known and dis­
tinguished from the habitations of the Uzians,
we make this our solemn oath unto Thee :
42. We will not, now, nor forever, make
war, nor engage in war, nor take any part in
war, for any God, nor Lord, nor Savior, nor
country, nor king or other ruler on earth; nor
will we aid nor abet war in any way whatever.
43. Neither will we, now, nor forever, eat
fish nor flesh of any creature Thou didst create
alive.
44. And we swear unto Thee, Jehovih, in
regard to these our babes, which Thou hast
given unto our keeping, to found Thy kingdom
on earth, we will raise them up to abjure war,
like unto this our oath unto Thee, and to prac­
tice not the carnivorous habit belonging to the
Uzians.
45. Neither will we use, no.r permit to be
used, in Shalam, any intoxicating drink, nor
weed, nor root, nor gum, nor any other drug,
for the contamination of human flesh by intoxi­
cation or for stimulation unnaturally.
46. Make us strong and wise, 0 Jehovih,
in this our covenant and oath unto Thee, for
Thine are the honor and the glory of all things,
time without end. Amen.
CHAPTER YI.
TH E COVEN AN T OF BROTHERHOOD.
OW, when Tae and his hosts had made
the covenant with Jehovih, behold, the
Voice descended upon Tae by enhancement,
with the holy angels of the God of heaven and
earth, and he said:
2. Whosoever choose Me, I choose in return.
3. Whosoever serve Me, I serve in return.
4. Alike unto like, created I the adaptation,
of angels and mortals.
5. As ye have drawn a corporeal circle
around My kingdom, behold, My holy angels
have drawn a spiritual circle around you.
6. As ye have dedicated to Me, so do I
dedicate to you, to serve you in holiness and
wisdom, by angels from the throne of My God.
7. As much as ye have come to raise up My
little ones, I will come to you, through My
angels, and raise you up also.
8. As ye make My little ones wise, and use­
ful, and to rejoice in their lives, so will I min­
ister unto you.
9. As ye are covenanted unto Me against
war, and to establish the practice of peace
on earth, so will My hand be over you in this
My kingdom, both on earth and in heaven.
10. And as much as ye are come to found
My kingdom on earth, even so have I opened
the kingdoms of the second resurrection in
heaven unto you.
11. Proclaim it in the east and west and
north and south, My kingdom is founded on
earth.|
|
811
8 OAHSPE.
12. The Voice departed, and then Tae, in his
own wisdom, faced to the east, and he said:
13. Hear ye, hear ye, 0 mortals and angels,
Jehovih’s kingdom is founded on earth !
14. Then, Tae faced to the west, saying:
Hear ye, hear ye, 0 mortals and angels, Je­
hovih’s kingdom is founded on earth !
15. Then, Tae faced to the north, and said:
Hear ye, hear ye, 0 mortals and angels, Je­
hovih’s kingdom is founded on earth!
16. Hext, Tae faced to the south, saying:
Hear ye, hear ye, 0 mortals and angels, Je­
hovih’s kingdom is founded on earth!
17. And Tae made the Sig n of the Circle
tw ice cut, and his hosts answered under the
sign, J e h o v ih ’s D a w n .
18. And, now, the Light of Jehovih came
upon Tae, and, of his own accord, he said :
19. Without a covenant of brotherhood, be­
hold, we are like an unorganized school without
a teacher.
20. As satan, in the management of his
soldiers for war purposes, hath demonstrated
the advantage of power through discipline,
let us be wise in the Father’s kingdom, by
discipline also, but in peace and righteousness.
21. Unity cannot be achieved but through
order and discipline and rites and ceremonies
and words.
22. Power is obtained more by concerted
oneness of purpose than by anything else under
the sun.
23. For which purposes, let us become
organic for the founding of Jehovih’s kingdom
on earth.
24. So that, henceforth, we shall be a unit
before the world, guided by Jehovih to the
single end of establishing a community that
can practice His commandments in full.
25. And, though we may fail in some meas­
ure, let us remember the generation we are
raising up shall have more advantages and
practice; and their successors shall also ad­
vance still higher.
26. Ultimately, all the world shall attain to
peace, virtue, plenty and wisdom.
27. Already are we covenanted to live our
all highest light, and to practice it.
28. How, then, shall we become organic, and
still have no leader or overseer ?
29. The highest wisdom in the state, or in a
community, is not with the majority, but with
a small minority.
30. The highest wisdom, which is the high­
est light, should guide the individual and the
community and the state.
31. How, therefore, let us divide ourselves
into groups of tens.
32. And each group shall select its wisest
man, as speaker, and his title shall be Chief.
33. And let the chiefs be a group also, and
they shall select a speaker, whose title shall
be C’chief.
34. Let the business within the colony be
divided into as many departments as there are
groups, one to each.
35. But let the united business of the colony,
in its relations to the world, and to sister colo­
nies, be in the care of the C’chief and the other
chiefs.
36. How, behold, in the kingdoms of heaven,
when a matter is announced, requiring the
Holy Council’s action, each and all the mem­
bers who desire, speak thereon, giving their
highest light.
37. And, after that, the chief giveth his
highest light, which is the decree.
38. So let it be with us.
39. And it shall be discovered in a short
time who is the highest light, not only of each
group, but of all the groups.
40. And whosoever is chief, shall be held
responsible for the errors or shortness of his
group; and whosoever is C’chief shall be held
responsible for the shortness or errors of the
whole colony as such.
41. Who, then, knowing that what is bound
on earth is also bound in heaven, is willing to
bind himself unto these heavenly laws for the
sake of Jehovih’s kingdom on earth ? |
|
42. When Tae asked this, the whole of the
multitude answered: In Jehovih’s name, I
bind myself in this also.
43. Tae said: Then, in Jehovih’s name,
repeat after m e:
44. In the name of Jehovih, I bind myself
to the C’chief’s decree; and I bind myself to
the chief’s decree also, and I bind myself in
the brotherhood of groups.
45. When they had thus repeated the words
of brotherhood, Tae said: Let the hosts form
in circle, facing the centre.
46. When they were thus formed, Tae went
round the circle on the inside, going with the
sun, shaking hands with each one as he passed,
saying: Welcome, my brother (sister), in the
Brotherhood of Paithists; with thee, I cove­
nant to be thine equal and obedient servant, to
whom I wed myself both in this world and in
the next, for the resurrection of man and the
establishing of Jehovih’s kingdom with mor­
tals.
812
BOOK OF J E H O V I H ’ S K I N G D O M ON EARTH . 9
47. Then, after Tae, the next one on his left
went round the circle also, shaking hands, and
repeating the marriage words of the brother­
hood.
48. And so on, they went, until all of them
had completed the Covenant of the Brother­
hood.
49. Tae s a id : I salute you all under the
sign, J e h o v ih ’s N a m e .
50. And they answered, by his instruction,
in the sign, M a n y i n O n e .
51. The Voice spake through Tae, saying:
Whoever, hereafter, shall join My kingdom,
shall repeat My Covenant and the Covenant of
My Brotherhood, before the C’chief and the
chiefs and before My chosen, in the manner ye
have done before Me and My holy angels.
CHAPTER VII.
FO U N D IN G TH E GROUPS.
THE Light of Jehovih being upon Tae, he
said: Let the examples of IJz be not lost
upon you. But where ye have learned, and
what ye have acquired, these shall ye appro­
priate wisely in Shalam.
2. For which purpose, it is wise that we
appoint our groups as now required, to be
added unto afterward, when more is required.
3. How say ye, then, shall we appoint groups
this day ?
4. Thereupon, different persons spake, and
the sum of their wisdom was that there should
b e :
5. A group of architects;
6. A group of clothiers ;
7. A group of dietitians;
8. A group of engineers;
9. A group of manufacturers;
10. A group of horticulturists ;
11. A group of agriculturists ;
12. A group of botanists;
13. A group of nurses ;
14. A group of physicians ;
15. A group of artists (sculpture, painting
and gardening);
16. A group of musicians.
17. And these were all the groups required
at that time. Accordingly, Tae proclaimed
them, and called for volunteers for each and
every group.
18. And these were filled, though, because
there were but fifty-two members, some of
them took membership in two or three groups,
so that all were filled.
19. The Light still being upon Tae, he said:
Since ye have made the groups, let each group
now select a chief.
20. Now, many of them spake up, saying : I
neither wish fame for being chief, nor do I wish
the responsibility of the position.
21. Tae said: Suffer me, then, to declare
the Light that is upon m e; which is, that ye
are here to fulfill whatsoever Jehovih may put
upon you, with all your wisdom and strength.
22. Whether ye be made chiefs or not made
chiefs, it is Jehovih’s work ye are here to ful­
fill, without any regard as to your personal
selves.
23. To covet chieftainship would be selfish;
to refuse chieftainship would be selfish.
24. We cannot found the Father’s kingdom
with any other members than such as say,
with all their hearts, and mind and soul:
Whatsoever Thou puttest upon me, O Jeho­
vih, that will I do with all my wisdom and
strength.
25. To have faith in this way, is to have
faith with practice; such a one is a Faithist in
fact.
26. Now, those who had spoken before re­
lented, saying : 0 Jehovih, what have I done ?
Behold, I tripped myself up even in the start.
Make this a rebuke to me, 0 Father, and heap
Thou upon me whatsoever Thou wilt.
27. Tae said: What any one can do, it is
well done; wherein he faileth, because of in­
capacity, behold, it is not his fault, but his
misfortune.
28. So, it came to pass, chiefs were selected
for every group, men and women.
29. And Tae was made C’chief. And so,
Tae delivered to each of the chiefs a synopsis
of his duties.
CHAPTER VIII.
TO the chief of architecture, Tae said: Thy
duties shall be one with thy group, and
what I say to thee shall apply to them also.
Thou shalt not only build houses for Shalam,
providing them comfortably with rooms and
with wholesome conveniences, but thou shalt
teach our adopted infants, by models and other­
wise, the art and science of architecture.
2. At a very early age thou shalt explain to
them, by blocks and with tools, the science
and measurements of architecture, as to the
names and kinds thereof, to the place and use
of braces, beams and roofs.
3. Moreover, as soon as they are capable of
813
10 OAHSPE.
holding a pencil, thou shalt teach them to
make drafts of houses, and the parts thereof.
And when they are old enough to handle
tools, thou shalt teach them to make models of
houses, and to estimate the strength of the
parts required.
4. To the chief of clothiers, Tae said: Thy
duties shall be one with thy group, and what
I say to thee is to them also. Thou shalt not
only provide clothing for Shalam, in wisdom
as to comfort, pattern and beauty, but thou
shalt prepare the way to teach these, our
adopted infants, the art and workmanship of
clothing the human form in the way most con­
ducive to health and comfort.
5. At an early age thou shalt teach them
the art of sewing and cutting, providing for
them models in human form, so they may
learn everything from a hat to a shoe, as to the
material used, the strength required, and how
to determine the same.
6. To the chief of dietitians, Tae said: Thou
and thy group shall be one; what I say to
thee is to them also. Thou shalt determine
and provide diet for Shalam; as to the best
herbivorous foods, and how to prepare them,
and how to preserve such as shall be kept
over.
7. In this matter thou shalt determine and
explain the constituent parts of the human
body, and shalt find and provide herbivorous
elements adapted to development and purity,
so that the best and strongest and healthiest
of men and women may be made out of these,
our adopted infants. Neither shalt thou fol­
low whims or fancies; but thou shalt support
thyself by facts collected from the different
nations of the earth.
8. And in the preparation of food, thou
shalt teach these infants the art and the
properties and all things pertaining to food
and diet. And explain to them the blood­
thirsty character of carnivorous animals, and
carnivorous people, giving them facts and
figures, so that in all thou teacliest them they
shall be learned wisely, and not in conceit
merely.
9. Thus spake Tae to all the chiefs, explain­
ing to them their parts. And after he had
finished with them individually, then he spake
to them collectively, saying:
10. The greatest of all learning is to learn
how to live in the best way, that we may be
happy here and hereafter. There is no other
learning so important as this.
11. To man, Jehovih provided neither wool
nor hair nor feathers to cover his body; and
yet He created him too tender to live without
covering.
12. In sexual relation, man and woman
alone, of all the animal world, can be taught
shame.
13. Whatever dress attracteth the least
thought to sex is the most modest dress : what­
ever dress giveth the fullest, best development
to all parts of the body, with adaptation to
comfort for the seasons, is the best dress.
14. Next to dress is diet. As to what is
best to eat, for the best, healthiest corporeal
man, and the best for the wisest, holiest spirit­
ual man, is the best diet.
15. These, with houses to live in, comprise
the chief requirements for the corporeal life
of man.
16. And yet, to produce these, and prepare
them unto man’s service, many trades and sci­
ences have been developed on the earth.
17. Now, behold, in this day, Jehovih hath
provided amply unto us. He hath opened up
unto us the nations of the earth, where we can
go and witness many things, especially as to
the habits and dispositions of man; as to his
mode of life, in food and clothes and houses.
18. Now, behold, ye have taken a great work
upon yourselves; which is to raise up these
little ones according to your highest light.
19. Ye have bound yourselves to follow your
own highest light. And ye know that all light
is progressive. Ye cannot settle down, saying:
I know enough!
20. But ye are bound to investigate. And
how can ye do this without acquainting your­
selves with what hath been proved amongst
other peoples ?
21. In some countries, infants are whipped
for crying; in other countries, they are held
up by the heels; and, in some countries, in­
fants cry not at all.
22. The chief of nurses shall discover these
facts, and appropriate them.
23. In like manner, shall every chief take
his part, and develop the highest proven and
possible standard.
24. As much as ye thus fulfill your places,
so shall be your satisfaction and happiness
afterward. As much as ye neglect your parts,
so will ye censure and accuse yourselves after­
ward.
25. As Faithists, ye accept all people as
angels ; mortals are simply undelivered.
26. All mortals are in an embryotic state,
preparing for birth (commonly called death).
814
BOOK OF J E H O V I H ’ S K IN G D O M ON E A R T H . 11
27. Heaven is now, and is near, even within
all who will accept it.
28. At an early age, infants can be taught
that to serve Jehovih bringeth happiness; to
serve mortal inspirations and surroundings
(satan) bringeth unhappiness.
29. Therefore, though ye teach our infants
about diet and architecture and clothing and
all other things, ye will still be but little
improvement on Uz, save ye teach them that
the chief aim of life should be to develop the
spiritual man that is within.
30. By this system of education in Shalam,
there shall be two branches, one relating to
corporeal things and one to spiritual things.
CHAPTER IX.
TAE said: Behold, the Uzians have schools,
and they teach their young by and in
books. But when their youth are thus edu­
cated, as to their brains, their hands are useless
for providing food and clothes and habitations.
2. Education, in regard to corporeal things,
must embrace the manipulation and handling
of corporeal things for useful purposes. And,
foremost of all problems is : How to provide
the necessities of life with one’s own hands,
that he may not be rendered a dependent on
others.
3. This shall be one of the first problems
ye shall make our infants understand.
4. Young children not only ask questions,
but they desire illustrations, with the privilege
of trying to do something themselves.
5. Their questions must be answered by
their nurses and their teachers.
6. It is not sufficient unto Jehovih’s require­
ments of you, that ye put off His children with
evasive answers, or with incomprehensible ex­
planations.
7. Education must be accompanied with prac­
tice. As, for example, ye show the child cer­
tain seeds, explaining wha.t will grow therefrom;
ye shall plant and illustrate. And when the
vine hath come up out of the ground, ye shall
not only illustrate its corporeality, but shall
display the life therein as a manifestation of
Jehovih’s Presence.
8. To simply teach the child the botany,
without reference to the spirituality that under-
lieth all living things, would have little effect
in turning the child’s thoughts to its own life
and growth in spirit.
9. At an early age, these infants shall be
thus put to work in gratification of their own
desires to do something; and their work shall
be educational, corporeally and spiritually.
10. And when they are large enough to han­
dle tools, they shall be permitted to work at
trades, or in art; and full and sufficient expla­
nations shall be given to all their questions.
11. And this shall come to pass in Shalam;
without tiresome study and without tiresome
labor, these infants, at fourteen years, shall be
wiser and better learned than Uzians at twenty.
12. For they shall not be limited to one trade
each, or one occupation each; but, to a great
extent, all of them shall know all trades and
occupations.
13. For botany, they shall have a garden;
and for astronomy, an observatory; for chem­
istry, a laboratory; for clothing, a factory; for
horticulture and agriculture, they shall have
orchards, fields and gardens.
14. Such, then, shall be the method of teach­
ing our infants.
15. Now, as to Jehovih and His creations, in
magnitude and perfection, they shall be ever
kept before the child’s mind, to exalt its grati­
tude and adoration, and to make it rejoice in
its own life.
16. |
|For there is not, in all the philosophies
in all the world, wherewith to restrain the
private life and habits from secret vice, save
through belief in Jehovih’s eye being ever
upon us. |
|
17. Nevertheless, a child that is raised up
without learning angel communion, is but half
raised.
18. By the actual presence of angels, and
by children seeing them and conversing with
them, the proximity of heaven to earth becom-
eth firmly established in the child’s mind, and
it beholdeth the fitness of one world to the
other.
19. For which education the infants shall, at
an early age, be made familiar with the unseen
world, by training in the crescent.
20. And their teachers shall try them to
discover su’is and sar’gis in them; and, finding
these talents, shall cultivate them in righteous­
ness and wisdom for the glory of the Father.
21. And it shall come to pass that many of
these infants shall not only see without their
corporeal eyes, and hear without their corporeal
ears, but they will attain to adeptism.
22. And the angels of heaven shall descend
amongst us, appearing so as to be seen, and
talking with us so as to be heard.
23. And, because of such exceeding great
815
12 OAHSBE.
light amongst us, no one shall practice decep­
tion ; for the minds and souls of all shall be­
come as an open book.
24. These are the promises Jehovih hath
given us; by the signs of the times they are
proven probable. Through faith in Him we
shall make these things true.
25. In faith He will bless you all.
CHAPTEB X.
OW, whilst the organization of Shalam
had been going on, Tae and his hosts had
interspersed the same in laboring; some in
building houses, some in digging and planting,
and others in clearing the ground from stones
and rubbish, whilst the women were busy with
the infants.
2. And it so happened that amongst the
hosts, Jehovih had provided a goodly number
of musicians, players and singers, who fur­
nished spiritual entertainment in response to
the prayers and sermons of such as suppli­
cated the Almighty.
3. In addition to these occupations, the
groups were cast into responsible positions
for the future; so that the members of all the
groups found it necessary to begin and pursue
a special line of education, themselves, so as
to become teachers.
4. Consequently, each group became as a
school in its specialty; for whoso had taken
it upon himself to live and practice his high­
est light was bound also to admit an increase
of light.
5. |
|Jehovih hath said: Two conditions have
I placed before all men, ascension and declen­
sion ; let no man stand still, for so I did not
create him.
6. Such as will not ascend, shall be in de­
clension ; such as desire not declension, let
them not stand still.
7. And I have given to My Gods and Lords
of heaven, and to wise men on earth, knowl­
edge to provide unto the multitude something
to do constantly, that satan (mischief) may
not enter in amongst them to their injury.||
8. Tae said: How is kosmon; men and
women know of their own knowledge a way to
provide unto self-development in wisdom, vir­
tue, truth and affiliation. |
|
9. And it was so; the hosts of Shalam had
been chosen and provided by Jehovih as an
example of self-purifiers and self-instructors
for founding His kingdom on earth.
10. Jehovih hath said: In kosmon, purifica­
tion shall not come by baptism with either
water or fire. But each one shall turn his
thoughts inward, to himself, becoming a con­
stant magistrate, sitting in judgment upon
himself as to his thoughts, works and be­
havior.
11. To perfect himself in his part, in the
family of My kingdom, is My new command­
ment unto My chosen.
12. Eor no man perfecteth himself unto full
requitement whilst he leaveth undone that
which he might have done. |
|
13. After a while, Tae and his hosts divided
and apportioned the hours of the day; so many
to labor, so many to rest, so many to study,
thus to one thing and another, that the groups
might be orderly, nevertheless, entire free­
dom was given to all the members to come and
go, to labor or rest, as they might elect.
14. How, it so happened that more than half
of the people were celibates, and they reasoned,
and said, inquiring: Is it not better that the
teachers and nurses be celibates ? And this
question extended throughout the colony, so it
became necessary to determine which should
be. And though the question was not weighty
of itself, yet, in order to provide an under­
standing for similar questions, the chiefs of
the nurses and the chiefs of the teachers ap­
pealed to Tae, who was C’chief.
15. And the Light of Jehovih came upon
Tae, and he said unto them: Did either one
shirk from service it would be plain what
should be judged for righteousness’ sake. But
because ye are ambitious to do good work,
which is tedious, with many trials, ye all de­
serve great honor.
16. Because ye are ambitious to serve the
Father, by serving these little ones, your as­
pirations are noble. Because ye are willing to
yield to one another any preference, ye are an
example of holiness.
17. The question ye have asked, which is
simply: Who can be the highest best teacher
of an orphan child, a celibate who has never
raised a child, or a married person who hath
raised a child ? is not a question, therefore, of
self-interest or self-gratification, but one of
knowledge.
18. If I decide this matter, behold, it would
be simply one man’s decision. W hy should I
make myself responsible in a matter that can
be determined by yourselves ?
19. Take ye, therefore, sufficient time to
inquire as to the facts that have been demon­
816
BOOK OB J E H O V I H ’ S K IN G D O M ON EARTH. 13
strated. Go, find of married people who have
raised up children of their own in the right
way, and number their proportion to those who
have raised up their children in the wrong
way. |
|
20. The chiefs took the matter in hand, and
they not only examined those in Shalam, but
hundreds of families of Uzians, and again they
came before Tae, to report.
21. And this was the sum of their report,
namely: Every one accuseth all others, that
no married people have raised up their children
in the right way, and, yet, each one accrediteth
himself as having raised his own in nearly the
right way.
22. Tae asked: But how found ye the chil­
dren they had raised ?
23. They answered: They were all raised
in the wrong way. Though they were good
enough in their own parents’ eyes, yet, to
others, they were far short of the mark of
either wisdom or righteousness.
24. Tae said: Why, then, since those who
have raised children have been failures, ye
shall surely not choose them. The celibates
have made no failures, for they have not tried.
25. Let this, then, be our rule and guide:
Since every mortal life should be made ripe
with experience in all things, and since celi­
bates have no children of their own, and since
these children are orphans and castaways, let
it be testimony that Jehovih hath thus pro­
vided the celibates as substitutes for natural
parents.
26. So, let the nurses and teachers, in their
youngest infancy, be celibates. |
|
27. And this was carried out in practice.
CHAPTER XI.
JEHOVIH prospered Shalam in every way,
more than had been possible to any other
people in all the world.
2. Whilst the nurses and teachers were pro­
viding for the infants, the rest of the people
were providing habitations, factories and edu­
cational workshops, and also tilling the ground
and ornamenting it with fields, gardens and
orchards, and with walks and terraces.
3. In regard to the houses, the temple of
Jehovih, the temple of Apollo and the gym­
nasium were the most important, and, yet,
none of these were like unto the buildings of
the ancients.
4. |
|Jehovih had said : Behold, the ancients
built their temples so durable that succeeding
generations forgot the art of building. Better
is it for man’s talent to remain, than for stones
and pillars of iron.
5. For which reason, in kosmon, thou shalt
not build imperishably in corporeal things;
but rather leave the way open for succeeding
generations to build also.
6. The temple of Jehovih, which was de­
voted to public worship on every seventh day
of the week, was provided with fountains in
the north-east and south-west, and with the
four lights of the square, and with the four
dark corners of evil and temptation, and with
a throne of Light in the east, with time-bells,
a gau and sacred wheel. The ceiling repre­
sented the stars and planets, interblended with
plateaux of the heavenly kingdoms. The east
was adorned with the rising sun, the south
with the sun at noon, and the west with the
setting sun. The north was adorned with the
pole-star and aurora borealis. The belt of the
zodiac, colored in cream-yellow, crossed over
the ceiling and faded down the east and west
walls. On the south wall was the coil and
travel of the great serpent (solar phalanx),
from the time of the Arc of Bon (of Moses,
Capilya and Chine) down to the Arc of Kos­
mon, in the etherean heavens. Flags of golden
colors were provided for the four lights, and
were mounted on silver-colored staffs inclining
toward the altar of the Covenant; and this was
in the place Tae stood, betwixt the crescent
horns, when they had, on the first day, made
the covenant. And in the place of the crescent,
where the fifty-one stood, was laid a stone
crescent, provided with seats and gate-ways
for successive affiliations to Jehovih’s kingdom.
The outside of the temple was of wood, and
was surrounded by posts made of native trees,
surmounted with a roof of cement.
7. When the temple was completed, Tae
said: Who but Gods could have made any­
thing so beautiful with such cheap material!
And if it perish in two generations, two things
man shall gain; the third generation can build
another; and, moreover, we shall not have left
a temple on earth that will call us back from
the higher heavens for more than two genera­
tions of time, to look after mortals who might
applaud us.
8. In regard to worship in the temple, Jeho­
vih had said:
9. As, in the olden times, I provided a
preacher to stand at the altar in the east, and
speak unto the multitude, behold, in kosmon,
817
14 OAHSPE.
the multitude shall render an account before
My altar of their fulfillment of My command­
ments, and My C’chief shall respond in My
name. |
|
10. And such, indeed, it was; instead of a
preacher denouncing people for their sins, it
was a place where the people returned thanks
and praises to Jehovih, with rejoicing, in an­
thems and songs of praise, with pleadings in
Jehovih’s name for the Uzians to learn the
lessons of the new kingdom.
11. And it came to pass that Uzians did
come, and listen, and look on, and examine,
saying and inquiring:
12. Why was not this tried before ? A
people without a leader!
13. And whilst they pondered, they looked
upon the meadows and lawns, the orchards and
hot-houses and the rich-growing fields, saying:
Is not this the garden of Paradise ? |
|
14. The temple of Apollo was devoted to
music, dancing, calisthenics, initiative proces­
sions, rites and ceremonies of amusement. The
interior was finished illustrative of proportions
and figures of symmetry and beauty. The
decorations illustrated attitudes, posings and
groupings. On the east summit was a figura­
tive illustration of the God Apollo with his
heavenly hosts, descending to earth looking at
a group of Druks (ill-formed mortals) with
long arms, who were squatting on their
haunches. Apollo was illustrating, on a well-
formed model, to his angels, how the Druks of
earth were to be changed into shapeliness and
beauty.
15. In its external structure, the temple of
Apollo illustrated a combination of one thou­
sand designs of architecture, arches, curves,
columns, pillars and so on. And yet all of
this was made of the forest trees of Shalam
and without cost.
16. Next to these was the gymnasium, which
contained also two swimming baths and one
hundred single bath-rooms.
17. Here were all kinds of places for de­
veloping muscular action, with swings, ropes
to walk, places for leaping, places for tum­
bling and climbing. This was under the charge
of the group of physicians. The temple of
Apollo was under the charge of the group of
musicians. The temple of Jehovih was under
the charge of the C’chief and his group of
chiefs.
18. Besides these, were the house of Archi­
tecture, the house of Mechanics, the house of
Horticulture, which adjoined the hot-houses
on the north and west. Here were grown all
kinds of fruit and herbs for food, and many
beautiful flowers, rich-growing all the year
round.
19. Then the Agricultural house ; then the
factories, for hats, clothing, shoes, cutlery,
and, in fact, all conceivable places required by
man.
20. And not the least interesting of all was
the house of the Nurseries.
21. Here were the heart and kernel of the
whole colony, the orphans and castaways
gathered up from amongst the Uzians.
22. Now, from the first of the inhabitation
of Shalam, the Voice had constantly urged Tae
and Es to make continual additions of infants
to the colony.
23. The Voice had said: Give thy people
plenty to do. Keep the nurses busy; give
them little to mourn for coming out of Egypt
(Uz) ; keep them at work; keep them in the
rites and ceremonies.
24. Then Tae said to E s: Take thou one of
the women with thee, and go back to U z;
gather in more infants.
25. And that ye may be known and respected
by the Uzians as to your occupation, go in
plain black dress, without oddity, and I will
give to each of you a wooden triangle, which
shall be suspended on your bosoms by a cord
over the neck ; for this is the symbol of earth,
sky and spirit, the three entities which con­
stitute the universe, being emblematical of
Jehovih.
26. So, Es took Hamarias, a young woman
of Thessagowan, and went back to Uz, and in
the cities gathered up infant waifs and brought
them to Shalam.
27. And thus, every year, they brought from
twenty to fifty additional infants, and adopted
them in the nurseries.
28. So that, in not many years, there were
more than a thousand orphans in the colony.
29. It so happened, in the second year of
Shalam, that a disease came amongst the cows,
and the physicians forbade the babes being fed
on their milk.
30. So, for some days, they were in straits
as to how to support the infants till other
milk could be supplied.
31. And one Abbayith, an elderly woman,
said unto them: Why worry yourselves ? Be­
hold, the corn is in ear. Go, gather it, and
press out the milk and cook it, and give to the
babes ; for this also is good milk.
32. So, they gathered the corn and scraped
818
BOOK OF J E H O Y I EL’ S K IN G D O M ON EA R TH . 15
it ancl pressed out the milk which, on being
boiled a little, was found to be excellent food
for infants.
33. Thus was discovered artificial milk, even
as it is bottled and sold to this day. And the
chemists also made water extracts from slippery
elm bark, and from flax seed, combined with
rice milk, and this also made an excellent
liquid food for infants.
34. Jehovili had said: Whether flesh or
milk or cheese that man useth for food, behold,
in the herbs and plants and trees I created, I
gave the same things. Let man discover them,
and understand the fruit of My inventions.
CHAPTER XII.
ES, the chief nurse, had said: I must tell
you of the wonderful Light of Jehovih,
that always cometh to us in time of emergency.
Even at the moment despair is about to reach
us, lo, His Light provideth unto us.
2. I had undertaken to nurse, with bottles,
ever so many babes, more than was possible
for one woman to attend, taking one at a time
on my lap, but I could not get round in time.
So, also, I had had observation that babes
should be held in somebody’s arms, and that
when they cried they should be taken up, held
upright, and diverted by walking with them
or by tossing them.
3. To do these things for many babes was
not possible for one nurse; so, after I had
prayed for strength and light as to what was
best to be done, the Voice came to me, plainly,
as if I had read it in a book, saying:
4. My Daughter, why thwartest thou the
way of My creations ? Had I designed My
little ones to be upright, I should have pro­
vided a way for them.
5. Thou shalt permit them to lie down, and to
roll about. Neither shalt thou encumber them
with pillows and cushions. Permit them to exer­
cise themselves by crawling in their own way.
6. And when the proper time cometh for
them to stand upright, and to jump, behold, I
will be with them. |
|
7. Es said: Now, thereupon, I began a new
system. I not only searched to know myself,
but to develop these little ones. And when I
took away the pillows and cushions, giving
them double blankets to lie on, and opportu­
nity to exercise by rolling about, behold, they
grew in strength daily, and not only soon
ceased to cry, but began to sing songs (to me
they were songs) and to laugh and amuse
themselves with their hands and toes and what­
ever they got hold of.
8. From this little light, of applying the law
of development unto babes, I applied myself
to make them understand that they should
divert themselves, without depending upon
their nurses. For many of the orphans we
had received were little tyrants, having been
spoiled by former nurses, and they screamed
constantly, to make some one carry them about
and divert them.
9. Now, therefore, I perceived that Jehovih
required more of me than merely to feed and
clean these little ones; the minds of the
spoiled ones had to be remodeled; they should
be made to comprehend that no one was slave
unto them ; and, moreover, that they them­
selves should cultivate patience, gentleness
and love, as better attributes than fretfulness
and authority.
10. For, let no one be surprised, even babes
can be spoiled to think themselves an au­
thority, with power to command obedience
from adults. And they discover, at an early
age, that to give vent to peevishness and pas­
sion bringeth the nurse to do them service.
11. And I saw, too, that some, even such
as could merely hold up their heads, became
jealous, to be the first fed, or the first washed, and
answered my negligence with fearful screams.
12. Now, it came to pass, when I ceased
taking them up to feed them, and did away
with the pillow-props, and laid them all down
alike, and gave them food at the same time
(according to their groups), I had not only
provided unto them better corporeal develop­
ment, but better spiritual development.
13. Such as had been peevish and jealous
ceased their former habits, and began to look
with respect to the other babes, rolling beside
them.
14. Not many months passed by till they
began to be interested in one another, exam­
ining their feet and hands, and evidently try­
ing to comprehend who they were, and whence
they came. And they also saw in one another
a representation of themselves, appreciating a
fellowship that was surpassingly beautiful.
CHAPTER X III.
TAE said: Never grew such straight and
handsome children as those of Shalam.
2. And it was so. And, moreover, they were
16 OAHSPE.
of all shades of color, and of all nations and
peoples on the earth.
3. And they were timed and disciplined
from the very first; a time to be fed, a time
for bathing, a time for dressing and a time for
sleeping.
4. Beside these times, the nurses provided
music twice a day for them, and at regular
hours. And many of the babes began to sing
and to beat time to the music, even before they
could stand upright.
5. And when the children were able to walk,
the nurses provided them, in processions, with
music to their steps; and a time was also set
apart for these.
6. Soon after this, they were given simple
calisthenics; and, in time after this, calis­
thenics proper, for the development of the
arms, limbs and person.
7. Thus were they trained to keep time with
music; to carry themselves erect; to control
the motions of their feet, limbs, arms and
hands, and, also, made to develop the full use
of their joints. And they were taught the
names of the bones, joints and muscles, by re­
peating the words in time to the music, being
in songs and semi-songs.
8. Great were the delight and interest these
little ones took in these exercises; and it came
to pass, that even whilst they were little more
than babes, they had mastered the names and
uses of the bones and muscles of the body.
9. And they were timed and limited in exer­
cise, adapted to the most delicate and slender,
and to the most robust; and every one learned
simply by diversion, and not by talk or labor.
10. After this, they were taught marching,
slow and fast, even running to time in music;
and, after this, simple tournaments.
11. Simple tournaments embraced games of
hunting and chasing; some of them taking the
part of foxes or wolves, and others, the part of
hunters. Yet, in all these games, the teachers
and musicians took part, directing and caution­
ing, guarding and supervising the games, teach­
ing the little ones the oneness of teachers and
pupils. Teaching the stronger children to be
observant and gentle toward the weaker ones,
illustrating to them how Jehovih had made
them all as brothers and sisters.
12. |
|Es said: Never was I so reproved for
the shortness of my former life, and for my
belief in the depravity of man, as now, when
these little ones demonstrated love and respect
toward one another, as if they had indeed been
begotten by the angels of heaven. They were
like little saints, and more of a lesson to their
teachers of the glorious creation of Jehovih,
than the teachers were to them of the wisdom
of man. |
|
13. Amongst their first lessons of labor were
those in the gardens, teaching them how to
plant; teaching them the names of seeds, flow­
ers, plants, trees and all growing things; ex­
plaining to them how Jehovih, by His Ever
Presence, giveth life and growth and form unto
all things.
14. And they listened, heeded, and, with de­
light, sought their turns and privileges to do
some little work.
15. Now, with the beginning of labor, with
them, was also the beginning of times and sea­
sons for recreation (play), which, for the first
six years, occupied the principal part of the
day. And, yet, every day they took lessons
of a few minutes in painting or drawing, or
demonstrating with blocks, cords, squares and
angles.
16. At six years of age, they were entered as
apprentices to labor, devoting half an hour
daily to knitting, or sewing, or working with
tools, giving them an opportunity of manifest­
ing their best adaptation.
17. At six years of age, they were also taught
for half an hour one evening in the week to sit
in the sacred circle for angel communion, that
they might become conversant with angels,
seeing them, and hearing them discourse on
heavenly things. Here they were taught pray­
ing in concert, and the order of praise to Jeho­
vih and His creations.
18. And the angels appeared amongst them,
oft carrying them in their arms, and otherwise
demonstrating the tangibility of the presence
of the spirits of the dead.
19. And the children were delighted, often
ejaculating thanks unto Jehovih and praise for
His everlasting heavens.
20. Now was also the time that many of
them began to manifest su’is, being capable of
seeing and hearing angels whilst in normal con­
dition, and also of seeing and hearing corporeal
things miles away, and without their corporeal
eyes and ears.
CHAPTEE XIY.
T
HIS, then, is after the manner of their
angel communion, to w it: The sacred cir­
cles were composed of sixty-six children, seven
teachers and one chieftainess.
BOOK OF J E H O V I H ’ S K I N G D O M ON E A R T H . 17
2. The chieftainess sat in the midst, and was
representative of the Light, repeating from the
words of Jehovih or His Embassadors. And
the responses were by the children, and by the
angels, and many of them were after this man­
ner, to w it:
3. Chieftainess: I am the Light and the
L ife ; My creations are for the joy and glory
of My Sons and Daughters.
4. Response: All Light is Jehovih; let His
Sons and Daughters rejoice in Him.
5. Proclaim Him with great jo y ; shout with
glee in the house of the Alm ighty!
6. C .: To show them the glory of My love,
and the wide dominions I created for their
everlasting inheritance, I send My holy angels
from My kingdoms on high.
7. R .: Who shall fathom the inventions of
Jehovih, and the foundation of His love ! He
provided His holy angels to come down from
the skies, the light and joy of His everlasting
heavens.
8. He fashioned a way for the soul of man
to live forever; from the resting-place of the
spirits of the dead, He bringeth them in the
Voice of His love.
9. C .: I have swallowed up death in vic­
tory ; the pain of the parting, betwixt the liv­
ing and the dead, I have bridged over with
Mine own hand, for the joy of My chosen.
10. R .: Greater than life, greater than death,
is the Almighty; with His own hand He han-
dleth them as toys; by His breath bloweth He
away all terrors.
11. He provided us a life on the earth to
learn earthly things; death was His invention
to adapt us to His imperishable heavens.
12. Glory be to Jehovih on high; glory for
His beloved angels who come to bless us.
13. Sing unto the Almighty, O ye little
ones; His eye guardeth over you ; His hand
reacheth to the uttermost places.
14. C .: The earth is My paradise; the songs
of My beloved reach up to My realms in the
skies.
15. R .: Proclaim the Creator to the ends of
the world; to His children He gave the earth
as a paradise.
16. Sing a song of gladness unto the Al­
mighty ; with the harp and the horn, and with
the voices of His beloved, mete out praise for­
ever !
17. Let us praise H im ; let us adore H im ;
the Almighty hath given us loves on the earth
and loves in heaven.
18. Shout unto Him in love; be outspoken
to the Alm ighty; He answereth in fair fields
and plenteous harvests. He filleth the air
with sweet perfumes; the color of the fields
and the forests are records of His skill. |
|
19. Now, during the chanting, the angels
came and joined audibly in the response, and
often took on the semblance oi corporeal forms
and walked about within and without the sacred
circle, and, at times, spake a few words of greet­
ing and joy in Jehovih’s name.
CHAPTER XV.
A T six years of age, the children were en­
tered in the school of oratory, and also
given the signs and graces of unspoken words
by means of gestures. And, now, they began
to take part in theatricals and operatic per­
formances.
2. For such purposes these two houses were
provided with angel chambers adjoining the
stages, and during the performances the angels
came in sar’gis, also taking parts in the operas,
ascending and descending before the audiences,
singing and speaking audibly, so all could hear
them.
3. Many of the plays and operas were com­
posed and prepared by the angels, who also
gave directions how to put the pieces on the
stage. And in some of the pieces there were,
of the children and angels combined, more
than three hundred performers on the stage
at one time.
4. Instead of the crude and loud-sounding
horns and hideous instruments, used by the
Uzians for their operas, the opera here was
provided with an organ of full power, and
with instruments of delicacy and sweetness, so
that the most refined ear should not be shocked
or pained by any crude or disgusting noise, so
common in the Uzian orchestras.
5. Now, as to the plays, whether in the
opera or in the theatre, they varied on differ­
ent nights, as to being adapted to young chil­
dren, or to older ones, or to adults. But, for
the most part, the plays and operas pertained
to illustrations embracing a life on earth and
an entrance into the lower heavens, showing
also the part in real life which angels of purity
take in guarding and advising mortals, by in­
spiration, to righteousness, and also showing
how drujas inspire mortals to sensual things
and to wickedness.
6. So, that the plays required the presence
of angels, to illustrate their parts in the affairs
821
18 OAHSPE.
of mortals; and every play was made a lesson
and sermon on life, so simple a child could un­
derstand them and apply the instructions to its
own soul.
7. Herein, then, was the difference betwixt
the plays and operas in Shalam, as compared
with plays and operas with the Uzians : With
the latter, they apply to the lives and adven­
tures of mortals, and to histories of mortal
affairs and occurrences wrapt up in inexpli­
cable causes; but the plays and operas with
the Eaithists, in Shalam, illustrated the same
thing's by showing the causes that govern and
control mortals by spirit-presence.
8. So that (for example), were it necessary
to exhibit a drunkard on the stage, it was also
shown how the drunkard was surrounded by
dark spirits (drujas), who inspired him to his
course; and also was exhibited the struggle of
his guardian angels to save him, showing thus
how the choice lay with himself as to whom
he would serve, satan or Jehovih.
9. In the simple plays, where the children
took their parts at first, they were taught,
without books, by repeating after their teachers.
10. And here was a new school, not known
amongst the Uzians; which was, to learn by
hearing words spoken, to repeat them. First,
they practiced with half a dozen words, then
with a dozen words, then with two dozen, then
four dozen, and so on. And it came to pass,
in a little while, many of the children could
repeat whole chapters, by simply hearing the
words spoken once.
11. Tae said: Here, first of all, began to
manifest that clearness of mind resulting from
an herbivorous diet which was and is wholly
unknown amongst the Uzians.
12. Tae said: And Jehovih further blessed
our children in su’is, so that many of them
who had not yet been taught to read, could lay
a hand on a printed page, and repeat it word
for word.
13. Tae said: And their little playmates,
hearing them, could repeat the same things.
And some of them would hold a sealed letter
in their hands, and read it word by word; so
that dissemblance and secrecy were become as
a farce before Jehovih’s children.
CHAPTER XVI.
|
|T E H O V IH had said : Let the order of the
ç j labor of My little ones be increasive ; one
half an hour a day at six years of age, one
hour a day at eight years, two hours at twelve,
and three hours at fourteen.
2. Nevertheless, these thou slialt temper
according to their strength and inclination,
making labor itself a delightful pastime. |
|
3. And it was so ; all avocations were as a
change from one amusement to another. And
so great were their capacities to comprehend
all things, that, at the age of fourteen, they
were master of all trades and occupations.
4. And, of the first thousand children that
reached fourteen years, scarce one could be
found but was master of horticulture, agri­
culture (with botany), engineering, surveying,
landscape gardening, architecture and general
mechanics. They knew how to make shoes,
hats, clothing (also spinning and weaving
cloth), the mathematics of musical instru­
ments ; and they were musicians as well.
5. Tae said: Though they lacked the age
and strength of full-grown men and women,
yet they had attained to practical knowledge,
the like of which had never been known to any
adults in all the world. Scarcely anything
was known that they could not make, or de­
scribe how it should be made.||
6. And yet, in all things, scarcely any part
had been taught them by means of books, but
by practical observation and by illustrations
and actual measurements.
7. Jehovih hath said: By My spirit, I move
infants to ask questions ; answer ye them, and,
behold, they shall become as Gods. For this
is a door I opened with Mine own hand ; whoso
answereth them not, shutteth the door against
knowledge, and ill-useth My loves.
8. Tae said : With all that our children
knew, behold, we still rebuked ourselves because
we had not answered half the questions they
had asked us. |
|
9. Now, from twelve to fourteen, they were
initiated into the religious rites and ceremonies
of the ancients, after the manner as set forth
in the Book of Saphah, with explanations of
signs, symbols, emblems and the sacred imple­
ments ; with the ranks of Gods and Lords and
Saviors and archangels ; with the divisions of
the higher and lower heavens ; with the first,
second and third resurrections in atmospherea,
as set forth in the Book of Ben ; and with the
cosmogony of the corporeal worlds ; the posi­
tion and travel of the solar phalanx ; with
actual observations of the stars, planets and
satellites, with their times and seasons, as set
forth in the Book of Cosmogony and Prophecy.
10. And they could point out the constella­
822
BOOK OF J E H O V I H ’ S K IN G D O M ON E A R T H . 19
tions; describe the distances and revolutions
of planets ; explain the zodiac, the polar lights,
and the use of telescopes and the spectrum.
And, yet, not one of them had been tired or
wearied in learning all these things.
CHAPTER XVII.
r p H E Voice came to Tae, saying: The four-
1 teenth year is My year. Behold, the bar-
vest of My laborers, who came first out of Uz,
is ripe unto deliverance.
2. In the heavens of My Gods, I bequeath a
time to labor unto them also; and when their
angel hosts are prepared for a new resurrec­
tion to a higher heaven, I come and deliver
them.
3. For fourteen years, thou and thine hosts
have labored with My infants; those which I
gave into your keeping have prospered, and
shall be now emancipated, and ye also shall
be emancipated from all further responsibility
over them, save such as ye may take upon
yourselves.
4. Call them together, old and young, and,
with suitable rites and ceremonies, fulfill My
commandments unto them, and bequeath unto
My children the titles, brides and bridegrooms
of liberty.
5. So, Tae appointed a day of emancipation,
and had it proclaimed before all the people of
the colony.
C. And, on the day named, there came into
the temple of Jeliovih one thousand of the
infants who had attained to fourteen years of
age. And they were clothed in white, with
uncovered heads, boys and girls, each carrying
a sprig of acacia, and they marched in, from
the west, two and two, but separated one to
either side, forming a crescent, with the horns
to the east.
7- The fifty-two founders sat in the east, and
were thus betwixt the horns of the crescent,
and they were clothed in black, with white
aprons, but with Zarathustrian hats6 on the
men’s, and with sky-crescents on the women’s
heads.
8. Back of the founders, were stationed
another thousand children of younger years,
and they bore the flower-wreaths intended for
the brides and bridegrooms of liberty.
9. But within the midst of the crescent
stood Es, facing the east. Still outside of the
crescent, were stationed the next younger class
of a thousand infants. And, beyond these,
were the members of Shalam; and beyond
them, were the visiting Uzians.
10. On the north and south were stationed
the musicians, and betwixt them and the cres­
cent horns, on the exterior, were the marshals
of Shalam.
11. Tae represented the Voice of Jehovih,
and Es the voice of the young brides and
bridegrooms who were to speak in concert with
her. After prayer and suitable music,
12. Tae said: In the name of Jehovih, and
by His Light upon me, I declare the place of
the Holy Covenant open to the voice of mor­
tals. Who here knowetb the times of Jehovih,
and the day and year in the place of His
kingdom ?
13. Es and the brides and bridegrooms of
liberty: In Jehovih’s name, greeting from the
west. Behold, this is the brides’ and bride­
grooms’ day of liberty. We stand before thee
and thy hosts to answer our love for the bene­
fits ye have bestowed upon us in the Father’s
kingdom. We bring to ye sprigs of acacia
as memorials of the everlasting life ye have
shown unto us.
14. Tae said: The east answeretli in love
and sorrow, but receiveth your memorials with
great joy.
15. E s: Before the Almighty, all things
move onward; to His decrees we bow in
reverence.
16. Tae: Are ye not satisfied ?
17. E s: We are more than satisfied with the
love and blessings we have received.
18. We were fatherless and motherless, and
ye gathered us up and fed us and clothed us.
But, greater than all, ye have taught us to love
and honor you in our Father’s name.
19. Tae: We went forth in duty, but Je­
hovih hath answered us with love. We found
you helpless, with none to care for you, or to
save you from destruction. We brought you
hither and provided unto you without price
and without hope of reward.
20. E s: But ye have bound us; how can
we ever repay ? None can know the fullness
of our gratitude.
21. Tae : We have watched you since before
ye stood upright; your every little step hath
been both a responsibility and a joy unto us.
0, why will you leave us ? Who knoweth
the love of the aged for the young, whom they
have watched from day to day ?
22. Es : We will not leave you; but, behold,
we are no longer babes, we are strong and
learned.'
823
20 OAHSPE.
23. As ye saved us, so let us go forth in our
might to save others. Who can teach the aged
that those they raised up are not always babes ?
0, give us our liberty ! Behold, we are clothed
as brides and bridegrooms !
24. Tae : And turn you loose without any
one over you to guard and bless you ?
25. E s: Jehovih will guard and bless the
righteous who serve Him. We are His !
26. Tae: Who is Jehovih ? and where ?
27. E s: He is the Life and the Knowledge,
Who is everywhere present, the All Person,
Who created us alive, Who, by giving, created
all things. He is our shield.
28. Tae: Your faith being in Jehovih, it is
w ell; but ye have bound us with your love.
What is bound on earth shall remain bound in
heaven. Though we give you the form of
liberty, yet our hearts will ever go out in love
to you.
29. Though we emancipate you here on
earth, remember, we are growing old. Ere
long, we shall join our fathers in heaven.
Whither we go, we shall again prepare unto
you.
30. And, when ye come again to us for a
season, behold, we shall again go on for a time
and a season.
31. E s: 0 Jehovih, preserve Thou us ever
pure and wise, that Thy hosts may continue
this love in our travel in Thy everlasting king­
doms !
32. Tae: Such is ever the beginning of a
kingdom of the Eather: Where a few gather
together in His name, fulfilling the command­
ments, there is the starting-place unto them.
33. Pity those that live and die in this
world, not having found and lived within a
kingdom of the Eather.
34. E s: To remain true to Jehovih’s heaven,
what a glory, time without end! Make us
strong and wise, 0 Father, to bring them into
Thy kingdom on earth. Help us to make them
comprehend.
35. Tae, in the Voice: With liberty I give
also responsibility.
36. Es, in the V oice: Thy chosen compre­
hend ; as Thou givest them liberty, even so do
they emancipate those who saved them.
37. Tae: To the helpless, I provide saviors ;
to the wise and strong, I say: Save yourselves.
38. Es : We want none but Thee, Jehovih,
to save us. We bind ourselves unto Thee from
this time forth, forever!
39. Tae: Whosoever striveth to save him­
self, shall not fail before He.
40. We covenant unto Thee, Jehovih, to
strive hereafter, forever, to save ourselves
from all sin and unrighteousness, in thoughts,
words and deeds, and to serve Thee with all
our wisdom and strength, by doing good unto
others as long as we may live.
41. Tae, of himself: Then, in Jehovih’s name,
and by His authority vested in me, I bequeath
you liberty forever. Jehovih be with you all.
Amen.
42. In Jehovih’s name we release our sav­
iors from all responsibility for us forever­
more. Jehovih be with you all. Amen !
43. Tae : Draw unto Me, and receive from
My hand, saith Jehovih. Whoso covenanteth
unto Me, I covenant unto him.
44. Whoso registereth unto Me, shall be
registered in My heavenly kingdoms. Upon
the entrance in heaven of My chosen, behold,
My holy angels are there to receive them.
45. The brides and bridegrooms: We cove­
nant unto Thee, Jehovih, to be Thine forever.
46. Begister us in thy everlasting kingdoms;
make us acceptable associates for Thy holy
ones in heaven.
47. Teach Thou us, 0 Jehovih, to look down
into our thoughts, words and behavior, every
day and hour, with swift remembrance to do
all the good we can unto others that Ave may
be an honor and glory in Thy works.
48. Tae: Come unto Me, My beloved; re­
ceive from My altar the token of liberty in My
name!
49. |
|The marshals then brought the points
of the crescent together, in front of Tae, leav­
ing a space between. The guards, then,
brought the children with wreaths forward,
filed to pass betwixt Tae and Es, who had
advanced to the apex of the horns. The sav­
iors (the founders) drew up in single file, facing
the west.
50. And, now, at a signal from the chief
marshal, the brides and bridegrooms turned
in at the crescent, two and two, and, as they
did so, they gave the acacia to the founders,
whilst the wreaths were placed on their heads
by Tae and Es, the bearers passing the other
way. And, as they did so, Tae said:
51. Beceive thou this token of liberty in
the name of the Almighty. It was grown by
Him, gathered by His loves, and is bestowed
by thy benefactor as a crown of Jehovih’s
kingdom on earth.
52. Es, in response: More precious is this
than the crown of any king or queen on earth.
In Jehovih’s praise I receive it; it is an em-
824
BOOK o r J E H O Y I H ’ S K I N G D O M ON EARTH. 21
blern of a new beginning in my life, a wreath
of liberty. The saviors (founders) said : This
acacia shall be my register before the Al­
mighty of your love. |
|
53. After this, the musicians sang and
chanted whilst the audience resumed seats.
54. Tae said: A new life is before you.
Heretofore, you have been directed and criti­
cised, and told what to do and what not to do.
Hereafter, ye shall not be thus disciplined, but
shall discipline yourselves.
55. As much as ye are thus bestowed by us,
so shall ye bestow one another. And, hence­
forth, ye shall not criticise or direct or dictate
to one another. As much as ye are free from
us, ye are free from one another.
56. Heretofore, ye reproved one another for
various trifling faults; hereafter, ye shall not
reprove one another, nor reprove any person
above fourteen years of age; remember con­
stantly that ye are not keepers or supervisors
over your equals or your elders.
57. And for such faults or shortness ye may
perceive in others, save infants, turn away,
behold them not, nor mention them. Such
matters are betwixt Jehovih and the doers.
58. And, now, behold, it is proper for you to
go into Uz, and see them, and observe how
they live, both in splendor and in misery.
59. For which purpose, ye shall be provided
in groups of dozens or more, and accompanied to
the cities of Uz to sojourn there for a season.
60. And, if it so happen that ye desire to
remain in Uz, then be it so; ye shall remain.
61. And, if ye desire to return hither, then
shall ye return.
62. But ye shall not return here as before,
as helpless babes, but as workers.
63. And, if ye elect to remain with us, then
shall ye make the covenant of brotherhood
with us, being one with us in all things, and
this place, or its sister colonies, shall be your
home as long as ye may desire.
CHAPTER XVIII.
HEN the groups were prepared to visit
Uz, Tae himself took charge of one
dozen, going with them. As the incidents of
these visiting groups were similar, the follow­
ing account of Tae’s group sufficeth here, to
w it:
2. Tae took them to the city of Meig, to the
most fashionable hotels, and had them pro­
vided with every luxury, so-called.
3. Hardly had he them located, when they
came before him, saying : Our rooms are small;
the air of the city smells foul.
4. Tell us, what is the meaning, so many
people strolling about in idleness ? Why do
they sit reading papers ? Which are the mas­
ters, and which the servants ? How do they
know ? Why do the servants not be masters,
and have the others serve them ? What beau­
tiful wagons ! What beautiful mirrors ! What
do the women have their clothes stuffed for ?
What are those bells ringing for ? Are they
in the temples of Jehovih ? Take us thither !
What causeth these disagreeable smells ? See
that old woman with a half naked babe, and
leading that dirty child! Why holdeth she
out her hand as we pass ? Is she a servant or
a master ? Why hath not some one told the
rich, it is wrong to pass that poor woman by
without helping her to a home ? Why does
she not come into our hotel, and have a room ?
What do the people mean about rights and
privileges ? Can one person in Uz have more
rights and privileges than another ? And why
so ?
5. What is that sour smell, down yonder, in
that cellar, where they talk so loud ? What
is sour beer ? See, behold, a man with a
bloody face ! Fighting ? What with, a tiger ?
Are those the flesh-eaters ? Why do they
smoke ? Why hath not some one told them
they should rather seek to purify themselves,
than to do in the opposite way ? 0, here is
the temple of worship, take us in !
6. Tae took them in, and they heard the
sermon, and afterward, they said:
7. 0 the mystery of mysteries! How can
these things be ? The chief preached most
excellently; he knoweth all the doctrines for
right-doing ; but why is it that his people heed
him not ? W hy doth he not gather up little
children, and raise them up to observe the
commandments ? He must be the best of men.
Take us to see him.
8. Tae took them, but a servant met them
at the gate, and demanded to know their busi­
ness.
9. They answered: We have come to con­
sult about the poor. Then the gate-keeper
withdrew a while, but returned, saying: The
preacher is not at home !
10. From an upper window, behind the lat­
tices, they saw his face ; not at home !
11. They said: Can these things be ? 0,
take us to the poor ; to the streets of misery !
Let us see them.
825
22 OAHSPE.
12. Tae took them, and when they looked
about, they asked: Why do the poor live in
the dirty streets ? Why do they not go away,
and dwell in the beautiful places ? Who gave
these different allotments to the rich and poor?
Why do the poor not clean themselves, and
clean their clothes, and clean their houses ?
Why do the poor remain in the cities ? And
huddle together in such little rooms ?
13. What is that large house ? A theolog­
ical college ? What is that for ? What is the
meaning of, teaching religion ? Can it be
learned with words ? What is the reason they
do not live religion ? Why hath not some one
explained to the professors that religion is a
thing of practice ? Could not they under­
stand. ? Why do they not love their neighbors
as themselves ? Dividing up what they have,
with the poor ? Why do these children go
without shoes, and so ragged and dirty ? Why
do not the professors and students in the the­
ological college go, and wash them and clothe
them ? |
|
14. Thus, Tae took them amongst the fash­
ion and splendor and amongst the poverty and
shame of U z; showing them the banks and
great merchant houses, and the fleets of ships;
and then to the prisons and poor-houses, and
to the houses for the insane, and to the hospi­
tals.
15. Now, since their infancy up, many of
them possessed su’is, and could see the spirits
of the dead, even as they saw mortals. And
they inquired of Tae concerning such spirits,
saying and inquiring:
16. Who are these restless, sullen spirits,
strolling about the banking houses ?
17. Tae answered them: These were bank­
ers ; these were the founders of great bank­
ing houses. As they bound their minds and
thoughts to earthly gain whilst they were mor­
tal, so drift they now, even as they bound
themselves on earth. They cannot go hence.
18. Again, they asked: Tell us, then, what
spirits are these strolling sulkily in merchant
houses and on the docks ?
19. Tae said: These were great merchants
and their ship-masters ; behold, they float also
into the places they bound themselves.
20. Tell us, then, who are these drunken,
foul-smelling spirits in the saloons ?
21. Tae said: These were tipplers, drunk­
ards, gormandizers; these were their mortal
resorts. They cannot go hence.
22. Thus, Tae explained the tens of thou­
sands of spirits that huddled around about the
different places in the city of Meig, in the land
of Uz.
23. Now, after the time of the visit was
completed, Tae said unto them: What will
you, remain in Uz, or return to Shalam ?
24. And they answered: 0, take us back;
give us clear air to breathe; let us be where
we can hear and see Jehovih!
25. But since thou and thy people gathered
us up in Uz, and bore us hence, let us go and
gather up infants also, and take them with us.
We will raise them up in the Light of our
Father in heaven.
26. So, in fact, did they; and they returned
to Shalam, taking with them a great number
of waifs and castaways and orphan babes.
CHAPTER XIX.
HEN the multitude returned to Shalam,
the place was more than filled, and the
Yoice came to Tae, saying:
2. Thou hast now fulfilled the first part of
My kingdom on earth, but, behold, it is yet
but a small branch of that which will over­
spread this great land.
3. Moreover, let the lessons of Uz be a profit
unto thee and thy people.
4. Because the Uzians build large cities,
their would-be reformers are powerless to work
righteousness amongst the people.
5. Let not the cities of My chosen be large
nor more numerous than Shalam is already.
Sufficient is such a size to all that is required
for the fulfillment of mortal life.
6. Therefore, thou shalt proclaim it unto
My chosen, that no city shall contain more
than three thousand people.
7. Suffice it, then, as I have placed the
example of bees before thee, showing how they
swarm, and go hence and establish a new hive,
according to their numbers, even so shall My
people go hence, and establish a new place,
after the manner of Shalam.
8. This, also, shalt thou proclaim unto
them; and thou shalt ask for volunteers in
My name to accomplish these things right­
eously, as an example to coming generations. |
|
9. So Tae called the people together, and
proclaimed Jehovih’s words, adding also :
10. Whoso volunteereth to go hence shall
not find the fullness of Shalam, but, instead,
shall find discomforts and hard work !
11. Beware of disappointments and trials
and hardships. For is it not the way with all
826
BO O K OF J E H O V I H ’ S K IN G D O M ON E A R T H . 23
men to desire to reap too quickly the harvest,
and to consider its fullness, rather than to con­
template the labor of tilling the ground and of
sowing ?
12. For the spirit of man conceiveth the
result of perfection; but the judgment looketh
to the labor required to bring it about.
13. Who, then, having the joys and fullness
of Shalam, will turn away from them, in order
to build another place, and yet, the while, not
repine for his choice ?
14. A colony shall stand as an individual
before Jehovih. A colony may thwart its own
righteousness by living for itself only.
15. The whole world is to be redeemed. It
is not sufficient for Shalam to say: Behold, I
am the fullness of the Father’s kingdom. Let
others go and do as I have done!
16. The selfishness of a colony shall be, there­
fore, guarded against, even as the selfishness of
an individual.
17. Discipline, as regardeth the means and
power of a colony, shall manifest in directing
to the given purpose of founding the Father’s
kingdom.
18. Shalam might appropriate her excess of
production, by sending into Uz, and giving to
the poor.
19. Jehovih forbid that this should be done.
The business of Shalam is not to distribute
charity where it would thwart its own purpose.
20. Shalam shall use her excess of means to
extending the Father’s kingdom, in building
new colonies.
21. Jehovih is with us, and we shall draw
Uz unto us, to make them know Jehovih. To
feed Uz in his debauchery is to send him in
the way of destruction.
22. Guard ye, therefore, the appropriations
of Shalam to such as labor for Jehovih’s king­
dom. As we have drawn a few away from Uz,
let us prepare to draw more.
23. The way is open for any to go hence to
found a new colony. Neither shall it be a
branch of Shalam, nor a dependent. But it
shall be an independent sister colony.
24. Neither shall it copy after Shalam, say­
ing : Shalam shall be our example.
25. This would be following an earthly light.
26. Neither shall its people copy after Tae,
saying: Tae did so and so, let us also.
27. For this would be following a lower light.
28. But it shall follow the Light of Jehovih
as it cometh unto you who found it.
29. Save Jehovih found it, they shall fail
who attempt it.
30. Jehovih designed not that man should
build his house exactly like his neighbor’s.
The misfortune of man is to copy after others,
instead of following Jehovih’s Light as it com­
eth to himself.
31. Let not this misfortune come unto Sha-
lam’s sister colony. Another locality will call
for other things. Be mindful of these, and
adapt yourselves accordingly.
CHAPTER XX.
ND there volunteered, and went out of
Shalam, two hundred adults and more
than three hundred children, of whom more
than a hundred were infants.
2. And they went into another part of the
country, and came to a place called Busiris,
which was unoccupied. And they purchased
the country there, and settled, and called the
colony Illaem, signifying, healing waters, for
there were mineral springs on the place, said
to contain great virtue in healing the sick.
3. Now, in a similar manner to Shalam, so
did Illaem, building and improving the place.
But the people of Illaem had less hardship, for
they drew supplies and assistance from Shalam.
4. Nevertheless, they had also many hard­
ships and trials, for several years.
5. And Jehovih prospered Illaem also; so
that it came to pass, that it was established in
great perfection.
6. As to Shalam, after the first swarm de­
parted, the inhabitants sent back to Uz, of their
women, whose allotment it was, and collected
yet more infants, castaways and orphans, and
brought them to Shalam, and raised them in
the same way.
7. From this time onward, every year, a
goodly number reached the age of fourteen,
and they were also liberated from infancy, and
admitted as brothers and sisters. And, nearly
every year, a swarm departed out of Shalam.
8. In addition to the infants admitted into
Shalam, there were also admitted many adults.
But these were examined after the same manner
as were those at the first founding of Shalam.
9. And none were accepted save those who
were Faithists in the All Person, Jehovih, and
who were willing to work.
10. But there came many of the poor of Uz,
seeking membership for charity’s sake.
11. But none of them were admitted. |
|
Je­
hovih had said: The laborers, in establishing
My kingdom, shall not do for charity’s sake.
827
24 OAHSPE.
Their labor shall be to provide a way to pre­
vent poverty, not to alleviate it. Behold, I
will have a new race of people in the world,
and they shall not waste their substance on
those that deny Me.]|
12. But the poor were fed and sent on their
way.
13. Now, it happened that many lazy peo­
ple from Uz, having heard of the beauty and
peace in Shalam, sought also to become mem­
bers, being willing to make any covenant and
to swear any oath, for sake of living in idleness.
14. But the Light of Jehovih had also
made this matter clear; so that they were
suffered to remain a while in Shalam at work,
and to attend the schools of discipline, that
they might be judged; and, if found worthy,
they were admitted, but if unworthy, they
were rejected.
15. But it came to pass, that many who
came with no thought of self-resurrection, but
came for a home, to be cared for by others,
were entirely changed in their habits in a few
months, being converted in truth from worth­
lessness to industry and self-improvement.
16. And many of these became zealous in
purification and in good works, even above the
average.
17. But nearly all who applied for admit­
tance were poor, or misfortunate, or dis­
couraged with life, and with the ways of the
world in particular.
18. Neither came many who were rich;
hence the saying, the difficulty for a rich man
to enter the kingdom of heaven.
19. For, having corporeal comforts, they
took little concern as to the spirit, and
especially as to affiliation.
CHAPTER X X i.
OF TH E VOICE OF JEH O VIH .
THIS is the sermon of the Voice, as de­
livered in Shalam to such as were admitted
on trial, to w it:
2. My Voice is with all men, saith Jehovih.
3. Whoso is admonished against wrong-do­
ing hath heard Me. By that shall he know
My Presence.
4. The man of Uz crieth out in mockery:
Who hath heard Jehovih? Do the Faithists
say, they have heard the Creator’s voice ?
How can empty space speak ?
5. But I am sufficient unto all My creations.
The ant heareth Me, and the bee, the bird
and the spider and all manner of living things
which I created.
6. How think ye they hear Me, learning to
do My will ? Go I to them with lips and
tongue, or with a trumpet ?
7. I am Spirit; I am the Soul of things.
By way of the soul is My Voice unto every
living creature that I created.
8. But man locketh up his soul, and will
not hear Me.
9. He heedeth that which cometh upon his
corporeal senses. And this darkness groweth
upon him, generation after generation.
10. Then he crieth ou t: Where is Jehovih ?
Who hath heard Him ? Perhaps the ancients;
but none in this day.
11. Jehovih saith : I am as one on the top
of a mountain, calling to all people to come
up to Me. But they hearken to darkness at
the foot of the mountain, calling them down in
corpor.
12. Now, behold, whatsoever thou hearest,
or seest or readest or any indulgence that
raiseth thee upward, the same is My Voice un­
to thee.
13. But, whatsoever thou hearest, or seest
or readest that casteth thee downward, is the
voice of darkness.
14. Whoso studieth to know the right, shall
hear M e; whoso striveth to be all truth, to him­
self and to others, already heareth My Voice.
15. Whoso indulgeth in anger, or vengeance,
or in wrong-doing, casteth a veil up betwixt
Me and himself ; he shutteth out My Voice.
16. It is a talent to hear M e; I bestowed it
upon all the living; it is seated in the soul.
17. By cultivation, it groweth; yea, it be-
cometh mighty above all other talents.
18. By its culture, man attaineth to all possi­
bilities, for so I created him.
19. When My Voice is weak, because of
the darkness of man, he calleth Me conscience,
or setteth Me aside as a faint impression.
20. But, with culture, behold, My Voice
cometh to man with words and with power.
21. And he knoweth Me, and is mighty in
good works and wisdom.
22. And he becometh a proof before the
world, that My Voice is with him.
23. Jehovih saith: Whoso hath not heard
Me, is in darkness indeed. He hath not yet
turned his thoughts inward to purify himself
and seek wisdom.
24. Whoso hath heard Me, knoweth it, and
all the world cannot convince him to the con­
trary.
828
BOOK OF J E H O V I H ’ S K IN G D O M ON EARTH . 25
CHAPTER X X II.
T
HIS was commanded unto the inhabitants
of Shalam, to w it:
2. Ye shall not persuade any adult to come
into the Father’s kingdom.
3. But ye shall say unto whoso cometh your
w ay: Come and see us, and judge thou, in
thine own way, what is best for thee and for
the world.
4. Others shall come to Shalam, inquiring
for curiosity’s sake, and for the sake of relat­
ing mischievous falsehoods founded on a grain
of truth.
5. Therefore, be ye guarded, saying to such:
The time of word-doctrines is at an end; ex­
amine thou, and judge as thou wilt.
6. Others will seek to convict you of self-
righteousness. Therefore, if they inquire after
this manner, to w it: Say ye, the Faithists are
immaculate ? or, say ye, all others are wrong ?
then shall ye answer them, saying:
7. Nothing mortal is immaculate; and, as
to others, we are not their judges. Go thou to
Jehovih, and inquire of Him. Sufficient unto
us is it to do all the good we can, having faith
in Jehovih.
8. Some will seek to trap you on the subject
of marriage, inquiring after this manner, to
w it:
9. Say ye, celibacy is higher than marriage ?
or, is marriage the higher ? What say ye of
marriage and of divorce ?
10. To these ye shall answer after this man­
ner: We are no man’s keeper; neither say we
whether celibacy or marriage is the higher.
We give liberty unto all to serve Jehovih, on
that matter, in their own way. One marriage
only do we permit to any man or woman.
And, though one or the other die, yet the sur-
viver cannot marry again. And, as to such as
are married, they can, at the option of either
one, return to celibacy, by being publicly pro­
claimed in the temple of Jehovih.
11. And if they inquire of you as to leader­
ship, saying:
12. Who is the leader ? Who is the high­
est? Who is the head? Ye shall answer
them, saying: Jehovih. We have no man-
leader; no man who is higher than another.
We are brothers and sisters.
13. They will press you, inquiring: Some
men can do more work ; some men are stronger;
some men are wiser; now, therefore, hew do
ye grade them that excellence may be known
and respected ?
14. To these ye shall reply, saying: All
men are Jehovih’s. He designed the strong
ones to carry heavier burdens than the weak;
He designed the wise ones to teach the less
wise. Why, then, shall we give any preference
to one over another ? They are not ours, but
Jehovih’s. Sufficient is it for us to do our
own parts, with all our wisdom and strength.
CHAPTER X XIII.
IN course of time, the first heirs of Shalam
came to maturity and to marriageable ages.
And since they had been guarded as to diet,
and as to controlling their passions, they were
unlike Uzians in their general characteris­
tics.
2. Because they had never known to say:
This is mine, and that is thine, they were
without selfishness or selfish desires; looking
upon all things as Jehovih’s, and on themselves
as laborers to render good unto others.
3. They said: We were created in order to
help rescue the world from darkness, and to
rejoice in our own lives, because of such good
as we can do unto others.
4. Behold, we were orphans and castaways ;
Jehovih wedded us to all the world. |
|
5. Having, therefore, wisdom and purity
within themselves, and, withal, having suffi­
cient association to choose from, they did
choose and wed for love’s sake.
6. Nor did any worldly ambition control
their choice, or influence them in hope of any
gain as to their wedded partners.
7. And it came to pass that the offspring
begotten of these were indeed a new race in the
world, as to wisdom, love, purity and spirit­
uality, and new also as to beauty and shapeli­
ness, the like of which had never been before
in all the world.
8. And they were by birth so developed in
su’is, that, when they were grown a little, edu­
cation came to them without books. To see
and to hear, either corporeally or spiritually,
was all they required in order to accomplish
wisely all things required unto mortals.
9. And, with them, the heavens were as an
open book; the libraries of the heavens as the
sound of voices full of wisdom.
10. And the angels of ancient and modern
times came, and stood by them, and walked
with them, revealing the past and the future.
11. And, now, the fame of Shalam and her
people was spread abroad, and, lo and behold,
829
26 OAHSPE.
colonies were springing up in the east, west,
north and south.
12. Hundreds of forest places and unoccu­
pied lands were purchased and put under cul­
tivation.
13. The wisest and best people began to
depart out of the cities of Uz. Many of the
Uzians, lawyers, preachers and priests and
physicians, gave up their callings. And they
went forth, saying: Alas, what good have I
produced in the world? 0 Jehovih, teach
Thou me the way to work in one of Thy king­
doms.
14. And some of the rich gathered up their
means, calling: Come, 0 all ye poor and help­
less ! Behold, I have purchased land; come
hither, and build a colony unto Jehovih.
15. And judges and governors gave up their
callings also, and went and joined the Faith-
ists, founding and practicing Jehovih’s king­
dom on earth.
16. And kings and queens and emperors de­
serted their thrones, and went and dwelt with
the poor.
17. So, colonies of Faithists in Jehovih
spread in every direction, becoming the chief
foundation of the state and of the world.
18. And, yet, none of these colonies were
bound by written laws, nor had any of them
leaders or masters, nor any government, save
the Light of Jehovih.
19. Nor was one colony bound by the cus­
toms and commands of another colony; but all
of them lived by the highest Light that came
to them.
20. Nor owned any man, woman or child
anything more than the clothes he or she -wore;
but all things were Jehovih’s, in care of the
keeping of the colony.
21. Nor was there buying or selling between
the colonies; but they exchanged with one
another according to production, and without
any regard to value.
22. And whosoever came and joined a colony,
bringing gold or silver or valuable goods cf any
kind, donated them to Jehovih, and not to the
colony, to be distributed according to the light
thereof for the Father’s kingdoms.
23. Neither labored any one for the colony,
but for Jehovih; nor did any colony hire any
man nor woman nor child to work for them.
24. Such, then, was Shalam and her exam­
ple before the world, of the Father’s kingdom
on earth.
EN D OF TH E H ISTO R Y OF SH ALA M .
CHAPTER XXIY.
T
HESE are the records of the C’cliiefs of
the Father’s kingdoms:
2. Jehovih separated the people, the Uzians
on one hand, and the Faithists on the other.
3. And He said unto the Uzians : Because I
called, and ye came not;
4. Because ye said: Thy kingdom come on
earth as it is in heaven, and ye put not forth a
hand in My behalf;
5. Because ye saw the multitude going after
intoxicating drink and smoke and opium ;
6. Because ye rose not up, saying: Stay thy
hand, satan!
7. But shirked, granting licenses unto these
sins ;
8. And ye have become a polluted people;
9. Given to drunkenness and to smoking and
to all manner of dissipation ;
10. Each one casting the blame on others,
and hiding himself in self-righteousness ;
11. Thus opening the doors of your houses
of debauchery as a temptation to the young :
12. Behold, I am risen in judgment against
you.
13. My holy angels I shall withdraw from
your cities;
14. And from your places of worship ;
15. And from your government, and your
law-makers and rulers ;
16. For they have profaned Me.
17. Making laws and granting licenses to
carry on evils, knowingly and wilfully, for
policy’s sake;
18. Hoping for personal favor and gain.
19. For they knew that what was not good
for one person, was not good for a nation;
20. And that, •whatever sin indulged in,
would, soon or late, bring its own punishment.
21. And they said: We derive a large rev­
enue from the duties and licenses for these
iniquities!
22. Thus hoping to justify themselves by
compounding themselves.
23. And I said unto them: A revenue thus
received shall be expended in prisons and
alms-houses, and shall not be sufficient.
24. Because ye granted licenses, and pol­
luted the people, behold, the pollution shall
more than balance the revenues.
25. The criminals and paupers shall be a
greater burden than though ye received no
revenue.
26. Behold, I showed unto you that, as an
individual could not sin against Me without,
830
B O O K OF J E H O V I H ’ S K I N G D O M ON E A R T H . 27
soon or late, becoming answerable unto Me, I
showed ye also that the same responsibility
and result would befall a nation or a people in
like manner.
27. For which reasons, and because of your
evasions of My commandments, I called unto
My God and Lords and My holy angels, say­
ing : Waste not your time and labor more with
the Uzians;
28. Nor answer ye their prayers when they
call on My name;
29. And, though their chief rulers and law­
makers be in the throes of death, and they
call, saying: 0 Jehovih, heal Thou our Chief
Magistrate!
30. Yet, ye shall not go unto them, nor do
them service more.
31. For they have become a conceited people,
saying: There is no God, and Jehovih is void
as the wind.
32. Behold, ye shall let them go their w ay;
their cities shall become full of crime, for
angels of darkness shall come amongst them,
and no city shall be safe from theft, murder
and arson.
33. And vagabonds shall travel in the
country places, stealing and robbing and mur­
dering.
34. And their great men shall take bribes,
and their judges shall connive with sin; and
the innocent shall be confined in mad-houses.
35. And justice shall depart away from
them.
36. The employee shall pilfer and steal from
his employer; and the employer shall hire
others to look after those in his employ.
37. But all things shall fail them.
38. For I will make them understand, I am
the First Principle in all things;
39. And that I am Justice ;
40. And that I am Purity;
41. And that whoso raiseth a hand against
justice, purity, virtue, wisdom and truth, also
raiseth his hand against Me.
42. I made the way of life like going up a
mountain; whoso turneth aside or goeth down­
ward, shall ultimately repent of his course, and
he shall retrace his steps.
43. To a nation and a people, and to a gov­
ernment of a people, I am the same.
44. Righteousness shall be first and foremost
of all things.
45. Their governors and law-makers shall be
made to know this.
46. When they were a monarchy, I held the
king responsible.
47. But when I gave unto the multitude to
govern themselves, behold, I gave also respon­
sibility unto them.
48. And they sought not to make laws for
righteous government unto the whole, but
sought to favor certain cliques of iniquities,
and to make laws to protect them in evil
manufacturies, and for traffic in tobacco and
opium and alcohol.
49. And no man more sought to be a gov­
ernor or law-maker for the good of the people,
or to serve M e;
50. But he sought office for profit’s sake and
vainglory.
51. Now, therefore, My holy angels went
away from them, and no more answered their
prayers.
52. And the righteousness of the first days
departed away from them.
53. And they became a nation of money-
getters and servants of mammon.
54. And I blessed not their marriages nor
their households.
55. And their sons and daughters respected
not their fathers and mothers; for, as the
fathers and mothers respected not Me, so came
disrespect and misery upon them.
56. And their sons and daughters became
profligates and idlers, growing up for no good
under the sun, depending on their wits to work
out a life of sin and luxury.
57. And whoso married, peace came not to
them; but contention and jealousy and bitter­
ness of heart.
58. And their offspring fell in the grades,
becoming outcasts and paupers and criminals.
59. And husbands and wives cried out for
divorcement on all hands.
60. And the law-makers granted them and
favored them; but, lo and behold, the evil mul­
tiplied on the earth.
61. In pity I cried out unto them, saying :
Ye may make laws forever, but My kingdom
cometh not by the road of man’s laws. Except
ye turn about, and begin anew, there is no help
for you under the sun.
62. But they would not hear Me.
63. Then I sent My angels unto them, teach­
ing them the same things that were taught of
old, amongst which were: As ye bind your­
selves on earth, even so shall ye be bound in
heaven; as ye live on earth, serving self only,
even so, in a selfish heaven, shall ye enter My
es worlds.
64. But they denied My angels, and abused
My seers and prophets.
831
28 OAHSPE.
65. In their own self-esteem, set they them­
selves up to judge Me, saying: There is no All
Person; there is nothing, save certain natural
and divine laws, and they are dumb, like the
wind ; they see not, nor do they hear.
66. Then I called out over the earth, saying:
The time of My kingdom is come. Now is the
time of My reign amongst mortals.
67. And those that had faith came; and,
behold, they have built unto Me.
68; I have a new people on the earth.
69. Again I called to My God and to his
angel hosts, saying: Behold, I have separated
the wheat from the chaff; I have divided the
sheep from the goats.
70. Go ye unto those that serve Me in the
practice of My kingdom, for they shall become
the chief peopl - in all the worlo.
71. They shall rejoice and. prosper in all
things ; they shall sing songs of glactness.
72. Their sons and daughters shall be an
honor unto them and a glory in My household.
73. Because they seek to serve Me by prac­
ticing good works with all their wisdom and
strength.
CHAPTER XXV.
THIS rule I made in all My works, saith
Jehovih: When I separate the people, the
good go away out from amongst the evil.
2. Even as I drew the Israelites out of
Egupt.
3. And, whoso go out, prosper in My hand;
I make them an everlasting people.
4. But those that remain, go down to de­
struction ; and they become unknown upon the
earth.
5. Their great men are forgotten, and their
wisest men lose caste in the histories of a
thousand years.
6 . Behold, these things I had made known
unto the generations of the earth.
7. Now, when I separated the Eaithists and
the Uzians, in the kosmon era, I sent angels,
warning them. I said unto them:
8. Flatter not yourselves that man is all
wisdom; I say unto you, I am with the right­
eous ; might shall not triumph through wrong­
doing. Behold, a judgment shall come upon
this people.
9. When I begin to call them, My chosen
shall come and found My kingdom; and they
shall come faster and faster every year.
10. And the Uzians shall fall into iniquity,
more and more every year.
11. And, now, behold what hath been !
12. The prince of devils came upon the
Uzians, saying;
13. Think not that I come to send peace on
earth; I come not to send peace, but a sword.
14. I come to set man at variance against
his father, and a daughter against her mother. |
|
15. Now, therefore, when My angels went in
behalf of My kingdom, behold, the prince of
devils did invade the places of the ungodly.
16. And, whoso received My angels, and
practiced righteousness, were fallen upon by
the emissaries of the prince of devils, and un­
mercifully treated with curses and tortures.
17. But I called the righteous hence, and
they built unto Me My kingdom.
18. And I said unto the Uzians : Let this
be a testimony unto you of the power of the
Almighty;
19. Ye go about building ships of war, and
harbors for defence, with torpedoes, and with
all manner of wicked inventions;
20. But I say unto you, this nation, this
government and this people shall not be
attacked in the places ye build.
21. It is within.
22. For I will draw away the righteous, and
none but rogues shall accept your great offices.
23. And this matter shall grow upon you in
the way of evil, declining in virtue more and
more every year.
24. Look, therefore, at your grade; judge ye
the words of the Almighty.
25. My hands fashioned the signs of the
times.
26. As the hirer this day hireth one man to
watch another, even so shall it come unto you
in the great offices of your government.
27. By force and by might, ye shall hope to
overcome the prince of devils, but ye shall
fail.
28. And, in proportion as ye go down in cor­
ruption, even so shall the Faithists go away
into My kingdoms.
CHAPTER XXVI.
T
HE C’chiefs said; And Jehovih prospered
the New Kingdoms, as they were called
in mockery, for they were not kingdoms, but
the opposite.
2. Jehovih had said: A republic cannot fol­
low the highest Light; it followeth the majority.
And a majority is, and was, and ever shall be,
the lesser light.
S32
BO O K OF J E H O V I H ’ S K IN G D O M ON EARTH . 29
3. Therefore, a republic is not the all high­
est government; and, since only the All
Highest can triumph in the end, behold, and
interpret ye what shall come to pass.
4. The C’chiefs said: But many understood
not. Nevertheless, the Faithists had little in
common with the Uzians.
5. The Faithists established a reciprocity be­
tween different colonies.
6. For, some were suited to agriculture and
some to manufactures..
7. And they exchanged produce, so there
was neither buying nor selling between them.
8. And it came to pass also, that, as some of
the colonies were situated to the south, where
it was warm, and some to the north, where it
was cold, so the people went and sojourned in
any place suited unto them, continuing their
membership wherever they went.
9. Now, thus it did come to pass, in Jeho-
vih’s kingdom on earth, man was without a
government, such as man’s government.
10. And this was the next higher condition
that came up after republics.
11. The angels of Jehovih, perceiving this
was coming to pass, said unto the Faithists:
12. Bother not your heads much about pass­
ing new laws for the Uzians; neither take ye
any part in the government, whether it doth
this or that.
13. For many men shall rise up, saying:
If the government would make a law of peace;
or, if the government would prohibit the traf­
fic and the manufacture of this curse or that
curse, —
14. But we say unto you, all these things
shall fail. Trust ye not in the ungodly to do a
godlike matter.
15. The societies shall fail; the Peace So­
ciety shall become a farce; the Prohibitory
Society shall be lost sight of.
16. Even the churches that profess peace
and temperance will not embrace peace and
temperance. They will fraternize with liquor-
traffickers and with colonels and generals of
war, for sake of policy.
17. The boast of the Uzians shall be: This
is a home for all peoples; but, nevertheless,
even in the midst of their boastings they shall
make prohibitory laws to the contrary.
18. For they are fallen under the lower light;
none can turn them about the other way.
19. Under the name of liberty, they shall
claim the right to practice ungodliness.
20. But ye shall come out from amongst
them, and be as a separate people in the
world. |
|
21. Thus it came to pass; the people were
admonished by God and his angels, and by Je­
hovih speaking in the souls of mortals.
22. And those that were of the Spirit be­
lieved ; but those that were of the flesh dis­
believed.
23. Wider and wider apart, these two peo­
ples separated. And the believers, having
faith in Jehovih, practiced righteousness, ris­
ing higher and higher in wisdom and purity.
But the disbelievers went down in darkness;
were scattered and lost from off the face of
the earth.
24. Thus, Jehovih’s kingdom swallowed up
all things in victory; his dominion was over
all, and all people dwelt in peace and liberty.
END OF BOOK OF JE H O V Ih ’ s K IN G D O M ON
E A R TH .
1 W e understand by this term, and also by the book itself, that,
what is set forth as being in the past, has not yet occurred. In
such respect it is a picture of the future, as will be demonstrated
in actual practice. The name, “ Tae,” is of course only figurative,
and is not a man of that name, as stated, but a representative, a
figurehead. See Book of Ben, p. 541.
2 W orld’s people. See Book of Ben, p. 541.
3 Es, in this case, must mean “ spiritual-minded.” See Book of
Ben, p. 541.
4 The names, Aborn and Thurtis, are correctly applied from
Hebrew. The extent of this family of philosophers, Aborn and
Thurtis, is surprising. They have figured in all ages of the world’s
history, even before the time of Sodom and Gomorrah. And
amongst the so-called advanced thinkers of to-day there are thou­
sands of them. They come under all sorts of names, from free-
love to libertinism.
3 Matthew x, v. 34.
6 A Zarathustrian hat is a cardinal’s hat; and originally, as seen
in the history of Zarathustra, is red, like blood. It is without a
rim, and is emblematical of the destruction of Faithists in a lions’
den. It is also used in the rites of Emethachavah. See Book of
Saphah.
833
BOOK OF DISCIPLINE.
CHAPTER I.
GOD R E V E A L E T II W HO HE IS.
T
HIS is the word from the organic heaven:
2. Hear the words of thy God, 0 man —
I am thy brother, risen from mortality to a
holy place in heaven; profit thou in my wis­
dom, and be admonished by my love.
3. For as I am thy elder brother, so shall it
be with thee, to rise also in time to come, and
look back to mortals and call them to the
exalted heavens of the Almighty.
4. To Jehovih all adoration and glory, for­
ever, Amen!
5. By and through Him is all life and mo­
tion, and power, things seen and unseen.
6. Nor is there an angel in heaven so high,
or sufficiently wise to comprehend Jehovih in
His entirety, nor to see Him as thou seest thy
fellow man.
7. For He is within all; beyond and over all:
8. Being Ever Present in all places:
9. Doing by Virtue of His presence:
10. Quickening all the living:
11. Adorable above all things:
12. Even as the sun is to the light of day,
so is Jehovih to the understanding of all the
living:
13. Whereon to contemplate is the road of
everlasting life, rising in wisdom, love and
power forever.
14. Hear thy God, 0 man, and distinguish
then that the twain, God and Jehovih, are not
the same one; nor more is thy God than what
thou shalt be in time to come.
15. First, mortality, then death, which is the
first resurrection; such are the spirits of the
dead — angels dwelling with mortals upon
the earth, where they abide, some for a few
years, some for a hundred anjl some for a thou­
sand or more years.
16. Second, angel organization in heaven,
and their abandonment of mortals, which is
the second resurrection.
17. As a kingdom on earth hath a king, and
the king is nevertheless a mortal, so in like
manner is the heavenly place of thy God a
kingdom of angels, and the chief over them is
God, an angel also.
18. Howbeit the kingdom of thy God em-
braceth all the heavens of the earth. So is it
also with all corporeal worlds and their atmos-
pherean heavens — a God and organic heavens
belonging to each and all of them.
19. Nor is this all; for there is a third
resurrection, in which the angels rise still
higher in wisdom, love and power, and are
sent by thy God into etherea, mid-way between
the planets — the highest of all heavens —
over which there are Chiefs, who are also Gods
and Goddesses of still more comprehensive
attributes.
20. Therefore I am as any other spirit of the
dead, a one time man upon the earth, even as
thou art in this day; but one within the
organic heavens of the earth.
CHAPTER II.
GOD E X P L A IN E T II THE F IR ST A N D SECOND RES­
U RR E CTIO N , A N D THE D IFFE R EN C E IN M A N I­
FESTATION S FROM THEM .
HEAR me, 0 man, and consider the weight
of the arguments of thy God. Thou
hast communed with the spirits of the dead;
thy father and mother and sister and brother
who are gone from mortality have spoken to
thee in spirit, and thou art convinced.
2. And thy kin and thy neighbor have done
so likewise; yea, from east to west, and north
to south the communion of angels and a multi­
tude of miracles have stirred up thousands and
millions — to know that the souls of the dead
do live.
3. Moreover thou wert taught in thy youth
to say: I believe in the holy communion of
angels.
4. And of a truth this hath come to pass.
And thou rejoicest with all thy heart and soul.
Thou puttest aside the ancient scriptures, say­
ing : Why shall I read them ? Do •
I not con­
verse with heaven itself ? Behold, I have seen
my father and mother and brother and sister
834
B O O K OF D IS C IP L IN E . 2
who were dead; they have spoken to me; there
is no devil nor place of hell.
5. For a season thy God hath suffered this
also to come to pass— that the spirits say there
is no G od; that there is no higher heaven than
to dwell upon the earth, to enjoy the things
thereof; to be reincarnated, and to live over
and over in mortality.
6 . That the evidence of my words might be
substantiated by thy experience, and thou be
led to consider the testimonies, present and
past, in order to comprehend the plan of Je-
hovih’s works, and the glory and completeness
thereof.
7. Consider then the result of angel com­
munion as thou hast found it, and bear witness
that Jehovih was wise in providing comfort to
both the dead and the living by this proximity
of spirit unto them, rather than a heaven far
remote.
8. Nevertheless, this also hath been proved
unto thee— that there are false angels and
wise angels, as well as false seers and wise
seers, and that out of the multitude of reve­
lations from them, there hath come neither
harmony nor good works.
9. They have been pullers down and clearers
away of the ancient revelations, doctrines and
religions; but they have built not an edifice of
unity and glory to the Almighty.
10. And it hath been shown thee that not
only the seer, prophet, su’is, and miracle
worker, but that all people are subject to the
influence of the spirits of the dead, even though
unconsciously to themselves.
11. And it hath been shown that the spirits
of the dead possess for a long period of time
the same characteristics and prejudices as when
in mortality; and since there is neither har­
mony nor community of life amongst mortals,
neither is there harmony nor community of life
nor of teaching amongst the angels who mani­
fest unto them.
12. For the angels through one prophet teach
one doctrine, and through another prophet
another doctrine, after the manner of the doc­
trines of the prophets themselves.
13. Consider also the multitude of infants,
that die without any knowledge of either earth
or heaven. And the multitude of unlearned,
and foolish, and depraved; for all of these as
well as the wise and good enter the first resur­
rection.
14. And of the wise and good, who strive for
continual elevation — how few, compared to
the whole! Yet such is the relative propor­
tions of angels of light and angels of darkness
in proximity to mortals.
15. Thus hath it ever been. Nevertheless,
in time long past, the minority, who were wise
and good were moved by the spirit of Jehovih
upon them, saying:
16. |
|Come ye together, 0 all ye who desire
to rise to a higher heaven; my heavens are for
raising the soul upward for ever and ever. |
|
17. And thy God gathered them together,
and said unto them:
18. Behold, this darkness is more than we
can bear; let us hence and inhabit a heaven
by ourselves, where there shall be no wrang­
ling, or falsehood, or malice, or blasphemy
against our Creator.
19. And they responded: Yea, let us hence.
And we will covenant ourselves unto Jehovih
to return no more to these regions, nor to mor­
tals on earth. For doth not the behavior of
mortals invite darkness rather than light?
Do they not want us for servants — to find
lost treasures or riches, or social indulgence ?
or to entertain them with miracles ?
20. Thus it came to pass that the wisest
and best angels departed away from the earth;
away from mortals, and away from the in­
harmonious presence of the legions of the
spirits of the dead, and they inhabited a heav­
enly region by themselves.
21. And they covenanted themselves unto
Jehovih not to return again single-handed to
minister unto mortals; neither to return again
to mortals save they came in phalanxes, and
only then when duly authorized and directed
by their most Holy Council, and their chief,
who was God.
22. Such then was the beginning of the
second resurrection; and the condition of
membership required the renunciation of all
associations and conditions below it. And
the rank of all such angels was, a n g e l s o f
G o d , or a n g e l s o f J e h o v i h , in contradistinc­
tion from the angels of the first resurrection, who
know no organization for righteousness’ sake.
23. But that mortals be not left in darkness,
behold thy God and his holy council prepared
certain rules of discipline and conduct and
commandments, whereby the angels of the
second resurrection should be as a unit in
their duties and teachings thereafter.
24. Chief of which rules was, that the
angels of Jehovih should never manifest them­
selves as individuals unto mortals, lest mor­
tals become servants to, and worshippers of the
spirits instead of the All Highest, Jehovih.
835
3 OAHSPE.
25. Second to this — that when the angels
of Jehovih should be appointed to mortals, it
should be as guardians over infants, to inspire
them by way of the natural consciousness with­
in, as to what was right and good in reference
to eternal life. And that such guardian
angels be in phalanxes of millions and tens of
millions (but still in close membership with
thy God and his Holy Council) in order to re­
lieve one another on guard.
26. For, by the inspirations of the angels of
thy God, the individual entity of a mortal is
directed in its normal growth; but by the
angels of the first resurrection, mortals are
used abnormally, by entrancement, by miracles,
or by sar’gis, oracles or otherwise.
27. That the angels of God might inspire
mortals with the same inspiration, behold, he
and his Holy Council prepared certain instruc­
tion with rules, words and commandments
adapted to the understanding of mortals for
the good of their souls, pandering not to their
earthly desires. Such words being designated
as sacred writings in the original, though for
the most part perverted or lost sight of after­
ward.
28. Chief angels over these phalanxes being
Lords, Marshals, Captains, and so on, the
second resurrection being orderly, disciplined
and organized in its glorious work.
29. Thus my Lords have angels under them
who are authorized and ordained in my name,
and in the name of Jehovih to abide for times
and seasons with mortals as guardians and
inspirers; to provide dreams, thoughts and
visions in the minds of mortals, and to other­
wise labor in elevating them in purity, love
and wisdom.
30. Such then are the angels of God and of
Jehovih. And their teachings are the same as
my Lord’s and thy God’s ; nor doth one of them
teach a matter in one way, and another teach
it differently; howbeit there are different
grades and systems adapted to the different de­
grees of intelligence of the different peoples
on earth.
CHAPTER III.
GOD ILLU STR A TE TII TH E D IFFE R EN C E OF M ETH ­
OD B E T W IX T THE F IR S T A N D SECOND RESU R­
RECTIONS.
OPEN thy understanding, 0 man, that thou
mayest discern the beauty and glory of
heavenly places prepared by thy God, Lords
and guardian angels.
2. For as we came up out of the first res­
urrection, which may be likened to a great
medley, a noise and confusion of a mighty
multitude, so covenanted we with Jehovih to
make ourselves orderly, and a unit in growth,
manifestation, expression and future develop­
ment, that the place of the second resurrection
should do nothing in common with the first.
3. For alike and like Jehovih created mor­
tals and angels to attract each other; and
since the aspiration and desire of most mortals
pertain to themselves as individuals, so the
twain bound themselves in the same pursuits
and earthly hopes.
4. For whoso on earth loved riches, or fame,
or great learning, or even evil, such as dissipa­
tion, drunkenness, gluttony, sexual indulgence,
or theft, gambling or arson, doing any or all
of these things for self’s sake, or for evil,
attracted angel companions of a like order,
who, by inspiration or otherwise, led him on to
achieve his heart’s desire.
5. And it came to pass when such mortals
died and entered the first resurrection, their
former inspirers became their companions and
rulers, having shaped their thoughts whilst in
mortality through their labors for self and
earthly objects. And these in turn became
angel inspirers unto other mortals of like char­
acteristics, so that a long period of time passed
away, before the spirits who were thus bound
to earth could be persuaded there were other
heavens open for them to come and inherit.
And as it was so then, even so is it this day
with the spirits of the dead.
6 . As there are good lands on earth still
unoccupied, whilst in other regions there are
great cities with mortals crowded together,
starving, and dwelling in misery, and they will
not hence, even so is the great multitude of
angels of darkness gathered together upon the
face of the earth — and many of them will not
hence into the higher heavens of Jehovih.
7. As cold metal in contact with hot metal
changetli temperature, so by angel contact with
the spirit of man, knowledge passeth from one
to the other. So also is it of the passions,
sentiments, desires and aspirations betwixt
the twain.
8. Also, as where the sea breaketh upon the
land, and the twain are ever in contact, so is
the spirit world ever in contact with the mortal
world (which place of contact was named by
the ancients the intermediate world or place of
purgation, wherefrom none could rise till made
organically pure).
836
BOOK OB D IS C IP L IN E . 4
9. Now therefore thy God showeth thee
certain signs characteristic of the difference
betwixt the angels of the first and the second
resurrection:
10. Of the first, coming as individuals,
whether professing names, signs or histories,
and especially the ancients. Whose words are
uttered from the standpoint of the earth look­
ing upward.
11. But of the second, as light only. Whose
words emanate from my holy places in heaven
coming down to thee.
1 2 . Of the first, flatterers, to win thy favor.
Whose counsel pertaineth to thyself and to
earthly things.
13. Of the second, to teach thee self-abne­
gation, and lead thee to do good unto others
regardless of thine own profit, caring little
whether thou art prosperous on the earth pro­
vided thou shalt be raised up in time to come.
14. For the revelations of the second resur­
rection come from the light of my Holy Coun­
cil, who have abandoned their earthly habits
and desires, knowing the way of raising up
everlastingly is by constantly putting away
the conditions below.
15. Thy God cometh not as an individual;
neither do my Lords (nor holy angels though
they come in my name). I come in legions of
thousands and millions.
16. Neither varieth the inspiration from my
kingdom one jot or tittle from what it hath
ever been, save in greater fullness, according to
the increase of capacity in mortals to receive
knowledge.
17. The spirit of my heavens pervadeth my
words ; through my holy angels I have spoken
unto thee from thy youth u p ; and in my
revelations thou perceivest the touch of my
hand.
18. I cry out Order, Purity, Discipline, Jus­
tice and Good Works — or, Retribution !
19. 0 man, beware of angels who say: In
heaven there is no organization, nor God, nor
Holy Council, nor discipline, nor order, nor
teaching, nor self-denial, or,
20. Who say: There is no God, no Jehovih,
no government in heaven, or,
21. Who say: There is no bondage after
death; no place or condition of suffering, or,
22. Who say: When thou diest thy spirit
shall enter paradise and dwell in perpetual
ease and glory.
23. Who say: Heaven is an endless summer
land, with silvery rivers and golden boats for
all, or,
24. Who say: Eat, drink and enjoy thyself
for the gratification of thine earthly passions,
for when thou art dead thy path shall be
straight to glory.
25. Who say: Heap up riches, for there is
no punishment after death, or,
26. Who say: Turn not thy thoughts into
thine own soul to discover thy ungodliness, for
when thou art dead thy spirit shall revel in
bliss, or,
27. Who say: The angel world is a place of
progression without self-abnegation and good
works, or,
28. Who saith: Behold me, I am from the
highest, most exalted sphere, or from a far-off
star, or,
29. Who saith: I have visited the planets, or,
30. Who saitli: Resurrection cometh by re­
incarnation— first a stone, then lead, then
silver, then gold, then a tree, then a worm,
then an animal and then man, or that a spirit
re-entereth the womb, and is born again in
mortality, or,
31. Who saith: Blessed art thou; for a
host of ancient spirits attend thee — thou hast
a great mission.
32. For all of these are the utterances of the
angels of the first resurrection. And though
they may inspire great oratory and learned
discourses, yet they are flatterers, and will
surely lead thee into grief.
CHAPTER IV.
GOD ILLU STR A TE TH THE CH AR A CTE R ISTIC S OF
M O RTALS ACC O R D IN G LY AS TH E Y A R E U N D E R
TH E IN FLU EN CE OF TH E F IR ST OR SECOND
RESU RRECTIO N.
CONSIDER the words of thy God, 0 man,
and profit thou in the application of thy
judgment for the growth of thy soul everlast­
ingly.
2 . Of the first resurrection man saith: I
know my rights and dare maintain them.
3. Of the second, he saith: I ask not for
rights for my own self; whatsoever is put
upon me, that will I bear.
4. Of the first: No man shall impose upon
me.
5. Of the second: Impose upon me whatso­
ever thou wilt.
6 . Of the first: Let me justify myself in
what I have done; behold, I am falsely ac­
cused.
7. Of the second: Jehovih knoweth my case;
837
5 OAHSPE.
neither will I plead in my own behalf. Who­
so is falsely accused, let him wait; in time the
Father will right all things.
8. Of the first: Let no man try to rule over
me ; I will maintain my liberty at all hazards.
9. Of the second: Since no man in all the
world hath full liberty — why should I ask it ?
10. Of the first: Make me a leader; let me
be the head.
11. Of the second: Make me not a leader5
lest I would feel responsible for those I led.
12. Of the first: I have done my share, let
others do as well.
13. Of the second: Though I do all I can,
yet I am short before Jehovih.
14. Of the first: 0 that I were rich as my
neighbor, what a great good I would do !
Id. Of the second: Take all I have, and at
once.
16. Of the first: Myself, and then my family
will I help; after that, others.
17. Of the second: We are all brothers and
sisters; why shall we prefer one of Jehovih’s
children above another ?
18. Of the first: I will not consider my short­
comings, lest I be dejected in spirit.
19. Of the second: Teach me, 0 Father, to
look into my every act, word and thought, to
purify myself in Thy sight.
20. Of the first: What might the world say ?
A h ! my reputation is at stake !
21. Of the second: What will Jehovih say?
With Him must I preserve my reputation, more
than with ten thousand worlds.
22. Of the first: Whoso injureth me shall
suffer by my hand.
23. Of the second: Let us render good unto
those that injure us.
CHAPTER V.
GOD SHOW ETH H OW M OBTALS M A Y A T T A IN IN ­
S P IR A T IO N FR O M JE H O V IH A N D FR O M THE
ANGELS OF TH E SECOND RESU RR E CTIO N .
W
HOSO ruleth over his own earthly desires,
passions, actions, words and thoughts,
being constantly watchful for the highest light
and greatest good, is on the right road.
2. And if he persist in this till it hath be­
come a constitutional growth within him, then
shall he hear the Voice.
3. Who then can judge him, save they have
also attained to the same high estate ? Is it
wise for the unlearned to dispute with the
learned; or the unholy with the holy ?
4. Shall the drunken man, reeking with foul
smell, sign the pledge to drink no more, and
straightway say: We temperance men! — and
presume to dwell with the pure ?
5. I say unto thee, till that man is purified
and grown to be constitutionally temperate he
is not temperate.
6 . Consider then the seers and prophets (who
hear the angels) whether they have grown con­
stitutionally to be one with Purity, Wisdom and
Goodness.
7. For this is required of such as presume
to hear me and my holy ones. And having
attained to this, who can judge them, save
they have attained unto the same ?
8. Shall a man inquire of the magician as to
the inspiration of the prophets of thy God ?
Or the angels of the first resurrection be con­
sulted as to their opinions of my revelations,
and their words taken for truth without sub­
stantiation ?
9. Let all things he proved, or supported by
corresponding testimony known to be true. As
the holy man perceivetli how things should be
in the heavens above, so they are. The unholy
man seeth heavenly things but dimly; he bind-
eth himself in ancient revelations which have
become corrupted.
10. Jehovih is as near this day as in time of
the ancients; put thyself in order, becoming
one with Him, and no book so easily read as
His created universe.
11. Inspiration cometh less by books, than by
what Jehovih wrote — His worlds. Read thou
Him and His works. Frame thy speech and thy
thoughts for H im ; He will answer thee in thine
own behavior, and in the happiness of thy soul.
12. Great wisdom cannot be attained in a day;
nor purity, and strength, to overcome tempta­
tion, till the growth be from the foundation.
13. The fool will say : The sacred books are
no more than man of his own knowledge might
write; yet, he hath not imitated wisely the
power of the words of thy God.
14. Let him do this well, and, behold, he
will also declare my words are from me. Yea,
he will recognize them wherever found.
15. It is the will and wish of thy God, that
all men become constitutionally capable of, re­
ceiving and comprehending the highest light,
and that they shall no longer depend upon any
priest, church, oracle or holy book, or upon con­
sulting the spirits.
16. That their behavior may make the earth
a place of peace, with long life unto all people,
for the glory of Jehovih.
838
BOOK OB D IS C IP L IN E . 6
CHAPTER VI.
OF JE H O V IH A N D HIS K IN G D O M ON E AR TH .
O MAN, apply thyself to understand the
spirit of my discourse, for herein shalt
thou find the key to the Bather’s kingdom.
2. These are the rules of the second resurrec­
tion: To become an interpreter and worker with­
out a written formula:
3. That whatsoever giveth joy to thy fellow
and rendereth peace and good will unto all —
shall be called light:
4. That whatsoever giveth sorrow to thy fel­
low, or discouragement to others — shall be
called darkness:
5. As to find fault with another, or to aggra­
vate unto displeasure — shall be called dark­
ness :
6. But to make another’s burden light, to
encourage him unto strength and happiness —
shall be called light:
7. To be forever complaining about this or
that — shall be called darkness:
8. To be forever imparting cheerfulness —
shall be called light.
9. Now therefore whoso becometh a member
of my kingdom shall practice light; but who­
so practiceth darkness, will depart away from
my kingdom of his own accord.
10. Neither shalt thou practice darkness upon
thy fellow for any shortness he hath done.
11. Nor shalt thou reprove him for error, nor
blame him, nor make thyself an inquisitor over
him, nor assume to be a judge over him.
12. Nor ask him to apologize, nor otherwise
seek to make him humble himself before thee.
13. Nor shalt thou boast over him because
thou art wiser or stronger or more expert.
14. Bor all such inquisition cometh of dark­
ness, and shall return upon him who uttereth
it, in time to come.
15. Bather shalt thou discover the good that
is in thy neighbor, and laud him therefor, for
this is the method of raising him higher.
CHAPTER VII.
GOD SH OW ETH THE D IFFE R EN C E B E T W IX T THE
R E LIG IO N OF THE OLDEN TIM E A N D TH A T OF
THE PRESENT.
T
O the All One, Jehovih, now as in the olden
time, and for all time to come, all honor
and glory, worlds beyond number.
2. The Highest Ideal, the Nearest Perfect
the mind can conceive of — let such be thy Je-
hovih, even as in the olden time, which is the
Ever Present thou shalt set thy heart and mind
and soul upon to love and glorify above all
things, forever and ever.
3. The All Highest in thy neighbor which
he manifesteth — that perceive and discourse
upon — all else in him, see not nor mention.
4. The All Highest subject — that discourse
upon — all else pass by.
5. The first lowest thoughts pertain to eating
and drinking ; and on these the man of dark­
ness delighteth to discourse.
6. The second lowest thoughts pertain to
sexual matters ; and on these the man of dark­
ness delighteth to discourse.
7. The third lowest thoughts pertain to man’s
selfishness, as bodily comforts and luxuries, as
ease and riches, as to what he hopes and desires
for himself ; and on these the man of darkness
delighteth to discourse.
8. The fourth lowest thoughts pertain to criti­
cising others, as to doctrine, religion, philosophy,
behavior and so on, forever pulling all things to
pieces ; and the man of darkness delighteth in
such discourse.
9. To abandon such discourse, and to dis­
course on the highest subjects, in preference,
such as teaching, imparting knowledge, suggest­
ing remedies for the unfortunate and unlearned,
for improving in excellence the homes of others,
the agriculture, mechanics and such like; the
man of light delighteth to apply himself to
these, both in word and practice, forever build­
ing up.
10. Consider then what thy mind shall go
in search of, that it may pursue the highest.
This is serving the All Highest, instead of
darkness.
11. Now all of these things were taught in
the religion of the olden time, and were given
to man by thy God to raise man up toward my
heavenly kingdom.
12. Nevertheless this religion pertained to
man’s own entity, a religion that was to be
answered either in reward or punishment upon
himself personally. His own salvation being
the subject paramount to all other considera­
tions.
13. And even where they founded brother­
hoods, as the brotherhood of Brahma; brother­
hood of Budha, and brotherhood of Jesus, they
were nevertheless but selfish brotherhoods,
whose aim was the salvation of each one’s own
self.
14. Neither was it possible in the olden time
to give man any other religion, it being neces­
839
7 OAHSPE.
sary to appeal to liis own advantages to make
him heed thy God.
15. But now, behold, 0 man, I come to give
a great religion, yet not to set aside the old;
I come to such as do fulfill the old, and to give
them the religion of Gods themselves!
16. Saying unto them: Go save others, and
no longer concern yourselves about yourselves.
17. Go ye and provide a place of second res­
urrection on earth, where the people shall put
away all low things and practice the all highest.
18. And call ye out unto the Uzians to come
and inherit the place with you.
19. Nevertheless whosoever is only concerned
as to the salvation of his own soul is not yet
ready for the religion I give unto you.
20. Mine shall not concern themselves as to
their own self’s salvation; for having faith in
Jehovih, that if they raise others up, with
their own wisdom and strength, they are already
saved, and without fear.
21. Compare then my second resurrection in
heaven with that which thou wouldst found on
earth for the glory and honor of thy Creator.
22. How chooseth thy God his initiates ?
Hath he censors '! — saying to all who come —
hold, be ye examined and tried, to prove ye
are worthy the second resurrection ?
23. Nay, verily, for this would imply inqui­
sition — a court of darkness.
24. Now, behold, O man, after the second
resurrection was established in heaven, I called
out unto all the heavens of the earth, saying:
Come, all ye of the first resurrection, also, let
my guardians go down to mortals and proclaim
unto all people — the kingdom of God is open
to all who choose to come.
25. Now some, who were not strong in faith
in Jehovih said: W ill we not be overrun with
angels of darkness ?
26. But thy God answered them, saying:
That is not our matter; ours is to serve Jeho­
vih by working for all whom He inspireth to
come unto us. Because any one desiretli to
come — that is sufficient testimony that the
light of Jehovih is upon him.
27. Others said: What of the indolent and
the shiftless ? W ill they not overrun us and
thus set aside the good we aim at ?
28. And thy God answered them, saying:
When ye practice the all highest, behold, the
others will depart away from you.
29. Then others questioned, saying: Sup­
pose they who come shall practice darkness —
such as slander, or tattling — what then shall
be done ?
30. And thy God answered them, saying:
Answer them not, lest ye also practice dark­
ness.
31. Again they questioned, saying: Suppose
they are good, but indolent ? Suppose they
say: Let us rest and sleep, Jehovih will pro­
vide for His chosen — what sayest thou of
them ?
32. And thy God answered, saying: Censure
them not, for they are weak or diseased. Let
your example heal them. Is it not in the cove­
nant to do good with all of one’s wisdom and
strength ? Because they do little, the matter
is betwixt them and Jehovih ?
33. Lastly, O man, how can they, who live
the all highest, cast the first stone at their
neighbor ?
34. For the act itself would be the commit­
ting of darkness.
35. Nevertheless whoso hath strength and
yet will not support himself — teach thou one
such man to change his attributes, and thou
shalt be honored amongst Gods.
36. Thy glory is to fulfill the all highest
thyself. When all who can, will do this,
thereon rest thy faith that the quickening
power and wisdom of Jehovih will sustain His
kingdom through His holy angels.
CHAPTER VIII.
GOD SHOW ETH W H A T IS M E A N T B Y FO LLO W IN G
THE H IGH EST LIG H T.
BE considerate of thy fellow man, and weigh
his standing place in the sight of thy God.
2. For one man saith: My highest light is
to get money; another, to get great learning;
another, to enjoy earthly pleasure ; another, to
contemplate sexual relations; another, to serve
Budha; another, to serve Brahma; another, to
serve Christ; another, to be efficient in war­
fare, and so on, every one from his own stand­
point.
3. Many are also under the prejudice of old
things, or the influence of a neighbor, or a
spirit or their surroundings, or the impulse
of their own flesh, and say: I too follow my
highest light.
4. Whereas they are in darkness altogether;
neither know they what is meant by the term
— highest light — often venturing an opinion
or a vague surmise instead, and believing they
are expressing their highest light.
5. For which reasons thou shalt explain that
840
BOOK OF D IS C IP L IN E . 8
only facts well known, or comparatively proven,
are light. An opinion is not light.
6. That whoso professeth light must know
the matter of his own knowledge.
7. That facts, numbers, figures or axioms
can demonstrate light; and that without these,
then the supposed light is only darkness.
8. Pursue this philosophy and thou shalt
easily discover who amongst you hath the
highest light; and also what kind of judgment
shall govern the chiefs rulings.
9. Some will desire to consult the angels, as
to which — in a given matter — is the highest
light; but I say unto thee, thou shalt weigh
the words of angels even as if they were mor­
tals, exacting similar facts and substantiation.
10. Was it not the consulting of the oracles
that destroyed Vind’yu (India), Socatta, Fonece
(Phoenecia), Persia, Ghem and Greece ? Such
consultation of angels is answered from the
first resurrection ; and it ever will be so, save
man exact from the angels facts and substantial
proof.
11. These, then, are rules of light: That
which is self-evident: That which is axiomatic:
That which is substantiated by facts: That
which hath a parallel in known things : Things
that lead to peace, order, and the uplifting of
thy neighbor and thyself.
12. Also to discipline thyself to be con­
stantly on the alert to be pure, good, truthful
and gentle in thy speech; to practice right­
doing — these are following the highest light.
13. This though is darkness — to express
fault finding, criticism, censure, or even an
opinion unsupportable by facts.
CHAPTER IX.
GOD SH OW ETH W H O IS A N D W HO IS NOT PR E ­
PA R E D TO E N TE R JE H O V IH ’ s K IN G D O M ON
E A R TH .
W
HOSO hath said: I have searched my
heart and mind, and, now before Jehovih
I desire to live a higher life.
2 . I desire to put away my selfishness, and
passions, and sentiments of unrighteousness
and unclean thoughts — and words.
3. I desire more to serve others than myself.
4. I desire no possessions, nor preference
over another, nor to be a leader nor a chief.
5. I wish to discipline myself not to speak
of myself.
6. I would learn to speak truth only.
7. I would that I were affiliative.
8 . I desire to do good unto others continu­
ally.
9. I long for association.
10 . I will not criticise any person, nor cen­
sure them, or find fault with them.
1 1 . I will conform to the rites and discipline
of the fraternity.
12. I will fulfill my covenants with Jehovih,
with all my wisdom and strength.
13. I renounce isolated labor.
14. I renounce the unorganized world.
15. I renounce the Uzians.
16. I consecrate myself to Jehovih.
17. I give up all unto Him.
18. What I do henceforth shall be by and
through the fraternity in His name.||
19. Then that man is prepared to enter the
Father’s kingdom.
20. But these are not prepared to enter the
kingdom, who say: I want a home for com­
fort’s sake, and where I may lead an easy life.
2 1 . I desire this because I shall have oppor­
tunity to improve myself.
2 2 . I desire this because I cannot care for
myself, and that I may be cared for.
23. Where I may shirk responsibilities.il
24. Weigh this matter, 0 man, and be thine
own judge as to whether thou art prepared in
heart and soul. Neither flatter thyself that
thou canst come in unprepared and not be
discovered. For soon or late thine inmost
thoughts will become known, and the fraternity
will not be thy place.
25. To put away flesh-food is easy, but to
put away dark thoughts and words — who can
do this in a day ?
CHAPTER X.
GOD R E V E A LE TH THE CURE FO R REM ORSE.
BE patient, O man, with thy neighbor and
thy brother.
2. Many men are far short in righteousness,
and without strength to accomplish to the
extent the mind conceives ;
3. And for having done wrong suffer lament­
ably, with none to relieve them ;
4. For which reason thou shalt provide them
honorable comfort.
5. In olden time, such ones confessed to a
priest, and he pardoned them, whereby they
were quieted and relieved of great distress.
6 . In a later time, it was said: Confess ye
one another.
7. But in this day neither of these is com­
841
9 O AH SPE.
patible with the intelligence of such as shall
be of Jehovih’s kingdom.
8. If then a man have remorse for having
wronged a brother or neighbor he shall so
acknowledge it to that member, and this shall
be restitution, even as if the wrong had not
been committed.
9. But if he hath wronged the community,
then he shall acknowledge it to the whole
assembly, and that shall be restitution, even as
if the wrong had not been committed.
10. And in either case he shall not take
further sorrow or remorse, or shame, nor shall
any member ever speak of the matter after­
ward, save to comfort him.
11. But in all oases confession shall be made
in the name of Jehovih, and forgiveness like­
wise. But whoso seeketh to justify himself, or
to make it appear that he was but partly cul­
pable, or that another led him into it — that
man shall not be forgiven.
12.. If he were led into it — then he who led
him knoweth it and shall exonerate him.
13. Whoso Jehovih hath created in prox­
imity as to time, country, place and association
— the same shall not be far distant on many
occasions in the next world; and in time to
come they shall be as if in a house of glass,
and all the deeds done while in mortality shall
be read as if in an open book.
14. Bor which reason thou shalt not tarry by
the way when thou hast wronged any man or
the community, but go quickly and confess,
that thy spirit become pure in the sight of
Jehovih.
15. Though thou grieve, saying: Shall I hum­
ble myself ? — I say unto thee this is God­
liness, for it is the purification of thyself, and
the beginning of power.
16. But if a man wrong himself, as by pollu­
tion, dissipation, or otherwise, this is sin
against Jehovih; and to Him shall he confess
privately, making a covenant with his Creator
to do so no more — which if he keep — then
the wrong is forgiven him, and he shall have
peace of soul.
CHAPTER XI.
GOD SIIOW ETH T H A T THE R E N U N C IA TIO N OF
THE U ZIA N S IS N ECESSARY.
H
EARKEX, 0 man, to the discourse of thy
God upon the second resurrection in
heaven, and apply thou these principles to
founding Jehovih’s kingdom on earth.
2. Many come to my holy place, saying:
Hear me, 0 God, I am weary of the first resur­
rection and of the earth. Open the gates of
paradise unto thy servant.
3. And I say unto them: Whoso will put
aside all that is below, shall dwell in this
heaven ; but whoso cannot in heart, and mind,
and soul renounce all that is below is not pre­
pared to enter.
4. Hath not Jehovih said on earth: Hus­
band and wife shall be the model and key of
Sly kingdom ?
5. As woman forsaketh father, mother,
brother and sister and becometh one with her
husband, so do they of the first resurrection
forsake all the earth and the lowest heaven in
order to become one with the kingdom of thy
God.
6 . For, save the mind and heart be one with
my holy place, the love of improvement will
also depart out of that man’s soul.
7. Isolation belongeth below the second res­
urrection, but unity is within it.
8 . He who hath disciplined himself to be
honest in his own sight may be in error; he
who striveth to do good on his own account
may be in error as to an ultimate good; and in
all cases man alone is weak.
9. Yet no man can practice the highest
whilst living with those who are inclined
downward.
10. In the second resurrection the angels are
relieved of individual responsibility, all matters
being under the wisdom of the Holy Council,
whose head is thy God.
11. First on earth, monarchies, then repub­
lics, then fraternities, the latter of which is
now in embryo, and shall follow after both the
others.
12. Behold, how hard it is for an ignorant
man to conceive of a state without a master,
or for the people of a republic to understand
a state without votes and majorities, and a
chief ruler. Yet such shall be the fraterni­
ties.
13. Have they not resolved their colleges
into teachers and pupils ? By their superior
knowledge do these heads receive their places,
yet not as rulers, but teachers.
14. Have they not resolved jurisprudence
so that testimony governs the rulings? Ac­
cording to evidence adduced and the knowledge
of the judge, so shall he decide, and not accord­
ing to his own volition.
15. Out of the wisdom of the college and the
court shalt thou discover the rules of frater­
nity, and by relieve-watch [rotation in office —
842
BOOK OF D I S C I P L I N E . 10
E d .] preserve tlie brotherhood against caste
and dictatorship.
16. See to it then, in departing out of Uz,
that thou take with thee only things that have
proved good — the rest leave behind.
17. As Jehovih gave woman to man, and the
twain became one in their aspiration, hope and
labor, and especially with reference to their
offspring, so shall the members of the fraternity
be such as having renounced all the world, can
become one with one another, and especially
for raising up the young to become the Father’s
edifice on earth.
18. As the husband is the representative
head of the family, yet he shall not tyrannize
over them,1 nor by his rulings make himself a
separate entity from the rest.
CHAPTER X II.
GOD DISCO UESETH ON LOVE.
M
ANY will come to thee, inquiring: How
sayest thou of such as are married, hav­
ing children of their own ? Shall they so love
the fraternity and the kingdom of Jehovih that
they shall set aside their filial love, assigning
their children wholly to the teachers, day and
night ?
2. Thou shalt answer them : Nay, in all the
fullness of their love, let them manifest unto
their little ones. And let this be a testimony
unto those who have children, how hard it is
for foundlings and orphan babes that have
none to love or caress them, that such parents
may add unto their household others also,
showing no partiality. And this is the highest
of all mortal attributes— to be impartial in love.
3. Not to abridge love but to extend it, God­
like, embracing all people, so shall the mem­
bers of the brotherhood labor with thy God
and his holy angels, for the glory of Jehovih.
CHAPTER X III.
OF DESTEOYEES A N D OF BU ILD EES.
O
NE goeth about preaching against heav­
enly revelations, and against the wisdom
of Jehovih ; and his daring speeches and good
logic fall upon errors and blunders in the writ­
ten words, and he draweth the populace, after
the manner of a gladiator.
2. Yet one such man that hath organized a
brotherhood for doing good — the world hath
not found.
3. Another man goeth forth preaching in
laudation of heavenly revelations, and on the
glory of Jehovih. The errors in inspiration
he heedeth not; the good he treasureth. He
may draw' but few unto him, and his work may
seem little.
4. But in time to come his work becometh
mighty over all the world. He organizeth his
people in love and fellowship.
5. The latter is a builder on Jehovih’s
edifice.
6. Let these two examples stand before thee;
and when the speech of the vain man is directed
against heavenly revelations, saying: This is
not of God; this is not of Jehovih, or this
is not of angels — know thou that that man
is not a builder.
7. But when a man saith all things are of
Jehovih, either directly or indirectly; what­
soever is good in them is my delight — know
thou that that man is a builder.
8. To strive continually to comprehend the
right, and to do it — this is excellent disci­
pline.
9. To be capable of judging the right, and
ever to practice it within a fraternity — this
is Godliness.
10. In the day thou judgest thyself, as with
the eye of thy Creator, thou art as one about
to start on a long journey through a delightful
country.
11. In the day thou hast rendered judgment
against thyself for not practicing thy highest
light, thou art as one departed from a coast of
breakers toward mid-ocean — like one turned
from mortality toward Jehovih! like one
turned from perishable things toward the Ever
Eternal — the Almighty.
12. And when thou hast joined with others
in a fraternity to do these things — then thou
hast begun the second resurrection.
CHAPTER XIV.
GOD DISCOUESETII ON THE A U T H O E IT Y OF HIS
OW N W OEDS.
F
IRST, freedom unto all people on earth,
and to the angels of heaven, to think and
to speak whatever they will.
2. Second, that since no man can acquire
knowledge for another, but that each and all
must acquire knowledge for themselves, thou
shalt dispose of whatsoever is before thee in
thine own way
3. Remembering that one man seeth Jelio-
843
11 O A H SPE .
vih in the leaves and flowers; in the mountains
and skies ; in the sun and stars ; or heareth
Him in the wind and all corporeal sounds;
yea, he knoweth his Creator in the presence
of everything under the sun. And he is happy.
4. Another seeth not Jehovih, nor knoweth
Him. Nay, he denieth there is any All Person
in the universe. He is not happy.
5. One man distinguislieth the harmony of
sounds, and he is delighted.
6. Another man cannot distinguish the
harmony, and he findeth no delight therein.
7. So, of the words of thy God, one man can
distinguish, and another cannot.
8. The revelations of thy God portray the
harmony and glory of Jehovih’s creations, and
of the organic heavens of His holy angels.
9. Whether thyself, or thy brother, or thy
neighbor, shall profess to reveal the words of
thy God — it is well.
10. Strive thou in this, and thou shalt im­
prove thyself thereby.
11. In the preservation of my words for
thousands of years resteth the recognition of
my authority.
1 2 . I call all people unto me and my king­
dom ; happiness proclaim I as a result of right­
doing and good works; whoever do these are
one with me in the framing of words.
13. To be one with Jehovih, this is Godli­
ness ; to be one with thy God, the way is open
to all men.l
14. To be organic for love and good works
— this is like the fraternities in heaven.
15. Whoever striveth for this hath my
authority already; his words in time shall
become one with me and my works.
16. To improve thyself in these holy things
is to discipline thyself to become a glory to thy
Creator.
17. Let any who will, say: Thus saith God,
or thus saith Jehovih, or thus say I. Truth
expounded shall never die; the discrepancy
from truth is short-lived.
18. Improve thyself, 0 man, to be sincere
in thyself and in all thou doest; and, when
thou hast attained this, thy words shall be
with power.
19. Remember thy Creator and seek to dis­
cover Him in the best perfections ; remember­
ing that darkness knoweth Him not, but Light
proclaimeth Him forever.
20. Eor on the foundation of an All Person,
and believing in Him, lie the beginning and
the way of everlasting resurrection. Without
Him — none have risen.
21. These are the words and discipline; in
such direction shapeth thy God the thoughts
of millions. The twain are the authority
vested in me, thine elder brother, by Jehovih,
Creator, Ruler and Dispenser, worlds without
end. Am en!
END OF BOOK OF D ISC IPLIN E .
l Book of Jehovih’s Kingdom draws a separate line for children under fourteen years of age.
END OF OAH SPE.
844
G L O S S A R Y
Adu — Death
Aji — First degree of density of an atmospherean world. Cosmic
dust.
Angels of God or of Jehovih — Angels who have no interest in the
affairs of men other than the redemption of their souls.
Arc of Bon — Three thousand year cycle which ended in 1848.
Asaph — A spirit who receives the newly born from earth.
Ashar — Guardian angel. Spirits associated with every mortal
whose aim it is to guide, but never command, to right action.
Asu — Adam. Subhuman man. The first created race of man­
kind.
Atmospherea — A degree of cosmic density. The atmospheric
envelope of the planet. Home of spirits newly risen.
Baugh-ghan-ghad — Origin of false doctrine that might makes
right.
Beast — The self (selfish) part of man. The animal man. The
earthly part of man. Anything that is enforced, as a religion.
Book of Ben — One of the thirty-six books of the complete
OAHSPE.
Chiefs — Those who by virtue of spiritual and intellectual devel­
opment are awarded leadership.
C’chief — Chief of chiefs.
Columbo — Columbus.
Corpor — That which has length, breadth and thickness.
Book of Cosmogony and Prophecy — A book in OAHSPE devoted
to science, astronomy and prophecy.
Dan, Dan’ha — Minor and major times of light in the planet’s
roadway.
Druja — An earthbound spirit.
Druks — (Cain) An extinct sub human race.
Es — Spirit and its implications. The Unseen field of causation.
Es enaurs — Heavenly musicians, composed of singers and
instrument players.
Ethe — The substance of etherean worlds, the solvent of Corpor.
First Resurrection — Lower heavens of the earth.
Gau — An instrument consisting of a triangle with plumb hung
from an angle used by ancient masons and astronomers.
Gods, Goddesses — Are spirits living in the third resurrection
located in the etherean heavens in interplanetary space.
Guatama — America.
Hada — Purgatory. A place of Chaos.
Ha’k — Darkness, ignorance and their implications.
Hored — The original heaven of the earth created to receive the
spirits of the first race that inhabited the earth.
Hotu — Barrenness.
I’huans — The second race or species of man created but now
extinct.
I’hins — Born of Asu (Adam) and the angels. Second Race
(Abel). Sacred people called so because they were the fruit of
both heaven and earth.
Infusoria — Protozoans that occur in infusions of decaying sub­
stance.
Ichthyosaurus — Extinct, prehistoric animal.
Israel — Those who worship one god only, the CREATOR of
heaven and earth named JEHOVIH in this book.
Jiay — An atmospherean world of the second degree of density.
Kayu — Confucius.
Kosmon — A time (cosmic) and condition of order as contrasted
with chaos.
Kriste or Christ — The name taken by the spirit who inspired the
Christian Religion. The followers of this religion have faith in
intellect and armies rather than in the Creator.
Lords — Executives, under God, of divisions of the earth.
Loo’is — Angels concerned with the spiritual eugenics of man­
kind.
Marshals — Angelic officers.
Nebulae — Third degree of density of matter.
Nirvana — Cosmic Consciousness. When the self blends into
the not-self, the soul into the oversoul.
O AH SPE — Sky, earth, spirit. The title of the new bible given
to the English-speaking peoples in the year 1881.
Orian — Orion. A ruler over etherean worlds.
Ormazd — The name of the Creator of heaven and earth used in a
former cycle as Jehovih is His name in this, the Kosmon cycle.
Pan — Signifying ground. The name of the submerged conti­
nent in the Pacific sometimes called Mu or Lemuria. Japan
is its remnant.
Sakaya — A prophet who lived about 2,500 years ago and taught
the doctrine of Jehovih the All One. About a thousand years
after his death the name Buddha was attached to him.
Book of Saphah — One of the books in OAHSPE which gives the
rituals of the ancient secret orders, keys to ancient languages,
etc.
Sargis — A condition which enables a discarnate being to manifest
to the senses of the embodied.
Second resurrection — The higher heavens of the earth where
God and His council and co-workers hold forth.
Se’mu — A scum that formed upon stagnant water in which life
originated upon earth. There are four phases through which
all material things pass; se’mu, ho’tu, A ’du and Uz. These
correspond to birth, maturity, death and disintegration.
Serpent, Great Serpent — The sun and planets comprising our
solar system.
Shalam — The place and method whereby the prayer of, “ Thy
kingdom come, Thy will be done” will be answered.
Su’is — An aptitude for registering the presence of beings in other
than corporeal conditions of embodiment.
Tae — The highest general expression of mankind. A repre­
sentative man.
Temple of Apollo — The Great Pyramid of Gizeh.
Uz, Uzian — The opposite of creation. One whose faith is in
things that pass away.
Vind’yu — India.
Zarathustra — The first great prophet who lived 8,900 years ago,
through whom the first bible was given mankind. He gave the
original ten commandments.
