{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__vezino___vezinos_non-hoardable_foolproof_monetary_systen.pdf","mytitle":"Vezinos Non-hoardable Foolproof Monetary Systen","mylang":"de"}
UEzmcs
Hon- tioarcU o.e
J
Foolproof
<t
TTlonetaru Sustem
Proauctioivfor-use
Under priuate ownership
A
NEW ERA OF CIVILIZATION
WITHOUT TAXES!
WITHOUT GRAFT!
WITHOUT UNEMPLOYMENT!
WITHOUT POVERTY!
by
Vezino
.".'.., .1 . . t ••
r-z>-My
/
Copyright 1938
by Vezino de Vezino
Printed in U. S. A.
Speakers and organizers wanted everywhere.
Books on sale at all book stores or will be sent
postpaid upon receipt of price, $1.00, from this
address, 6717 Laird Ave., Oakland, California.
Published by
Vezino deVezino
Oakland, Calif.
I i v w * *-***
UEZITIO'S
Xlon-Hodradble
Foolproof
ITlonetdru Sustem
Proauction'-fcKvuse
Under private owners
kip
A
NEW ERA OF CIVILIZATION
WITHOUT TAXES!
WITHOUT GRAFT!
WITHOUT UNEMPLOYMENT!
WITHOUT POVERTY!
by
Vezino
DEDICATION
To the victims of Interest, Profit,
Taxes, Unemployment and the Curse
of Poverty in all Lands; this book is
thoughtfully dedicated.
—The Author
a.
INTRODUCTION
In presenting this volume to the public with its
prayerful message of inspiration and hope for Econ
omic Reform and Social Justice! I am sensitive to
the fact that it will not meet with the approval of all
who read. But I have the courage to hope that it
will find fertile soil in the minds of those who are
free from selfishness and ignorance, and especially
those victims of the "profit system' who are denied
the right to consume what they want of the things
their own toil has produced.
Yes, I have the courage to hope that the message
this volume contains and the cause it advocates —the
Abolition of Poverty—will reach the underprivileged
millions for whom it is intended. And like the causa
of "Liberty" which gave birth to our country, it will
give birth to a New Era of Civilization wherein all
of us—not merely a privileged few, will have the
power to consume what we want of the things our
country can and does produce. This accomplished,
will mean for all of us—who are the victims of our
money-mad-clan and the imperfections of Government
—a better civilization than that which we now enjoy.
IV286463
In writing this message I have done my best to
present it to your mind in the plain and simple language
of the common people, with clearness and simplicity,
that none may misunderstand or misconstrue the full
import and meaning of my words.
Born with a goodly share of originality, I seldom
find it necessary to tread the beaten paths of others.
And so I bring to you, good people of America, and
to all my fellow-humans of our good earth, this mes
sage all dressed up in its originality direct from God's
great store-house of wisdom—the wondrous palace of
the mind.
"For the CAUSE that needs assistance,
For the WRONG that needs resistance,
For the FUTURE in the distance —
And the GOOD that I can do."
I have done my utmost in these pages to awaken
the 'God- within' that I might instill hope, courage and
ambition in the minds of my readers that they may
not hesitate to lend their whole-hearted co-operation
in the cause I have come to preach —the sublimest and
noblest cause since Jesus preached "Good-Will-To-
Men"—the Abolition of Poverty. i;
Knowing that Mankind is made up of just three
kinds of people—gods, devils and fools, or in other
words the godly, the devilish and the foolish. There
fore, in presenting the message this book contains, I
appeal to the more godly of my fellow-humans of our
good earth —to speakers and organizers everywhere,
and in every walk of life to lend their whole-hearted
assistance in this work of brushing the cobwebs of
superstition and selfishness from before the eyes of
6
those who spend their lives following blind leaders
'round about in the land of want, on the desert sands
of scarcity, getting nowhere but farther and farther
into the quicksands of poverty prepared for them by
the money-mongers of the profit system; to help
scrape the barnacles of prejudice, bigotry and ignor
ance from the minds of others and teach them to
THINK ! that they may become acquainted with the
'God-within' and learn the TRUTH ! "And the truth
shall set them free," the good book says. And I am
appealing to all followers of the true God, which is
Life, Power and Intelligence. It was a mistake to
call this Trinity the "Father, Son and Holy-Ghost,"
because "Holy Ghost" is to obstruse and hard to
understand by the children of Mankind. It was a
mistake also to write in our Christian bible : "/ am a
jealous God and shall suffer no other gods before
me." How much better it would be to have put it as
we find it in the non-Christian bible: "Ye zvho zvor-
ship other gods, zvorship me, for I am one and many."
However, I believe with Poe, that: "All are but parts
of one stupendous whole, whose body Nature is and
God the Soul." Truly, we are all God's children,
known on this earth as Mankind. And while on our
pilgrimage from the cradle to the grave, we should
strive to obey the Golden Rule —"To do unto others,
as ye would others do unto you." And so I am call
ing to all good men and women in America who
would join this greatest humanitarian movement for
Economic Reform and Social Justice since the world
began. Get your name on our Roll of Honor as a
member of the American Army for the Abolition of
Poverty, and thus lend your efforts and your influence
as a co-operator in bringing to a reality this great
cause which the evolution of civilization is here plac
ing before us—the Abolition of Poverty.
Would you do away with "Graft" and "thievery"
in high places and in low?
Would you do away with Commercial Plutocrats
and Political Grafters?
Would you do away with the "Stick-up" game
and "Gangsterism?"
Would you do away with all Crime for monetary
gain?
Would you do away with "Corporate Stock and
Bond thievery"?
Would you do away with "Money-Loan-Sharks"
and their dishonest methods of usury?
Would you free your homes and your farms from
the clutches of your money-mad-clan and their devil's
money system?
Would you do away with impoverishing "Interest
Bearing U. S. Bonds" which are fast bringing our
country to the verge of bankruptcy or repudiation?
Would you stop the destruction of food-stuffs
before the very eyes of hunger-tortured men, women
and children who are denied the power to consume?
Do you wonder where our "criminals" come from?
They come mostly from the ranks of these same
hunger-tortured men, women and children who, be
cause of "unemployment" are denied the opportunity
to earn their daily bread by honest toil.
Would you put an end to unemployment and
scarcity—the result of Capitalism's profit system—in
a land where there is plenty for all?
8
Would you make it unnecessary for our workers
to have to fight for a "living-wage" and thus put an
end to "strikes and lockouts" which are, and will con
tinue to be the great menace to industry under our
profit system.
Would you have an everlasting period of "pros
perity" with your country producing at its full techni
cal capacity?
Would you free our people from money worries
and put them on a Pay-As- You-Go-System—with
money to pay their way?
I am telling you here in these pages, that poverty
amidst plenty exists only—because of the ignorance
of those blind-fools. Are YOU one of them?
THINK MEN! THINK!
In these pages I am pointing the way to a New
Era of Civilization! Without TAXES! Without
GRAFT! Without Unemployment Without PO
VERTY!
Believe it or not! This is made possible by Ve-
.zino's Non-Hordable, Foolproof Money System
which, automatically gives us PRODUCTION FOR
USE under PRIVATE OWNERSHIP.
I adjure you, my fellow-humans, not only here
tn America, but in all lands of our greater country,
the earth, to study these pages and learn the
TRUTH ! And "the truth shall set you free."
—The Author
QUOTATION FROM THE DECLARATION
OF INDEPENDENCE
"We hold these truths to be self-evident, that
all men are created equal, that they are endowed by
their Creator with certain inalienable Rights, that
among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of
Happiness. That to secure these rights, Governments
are instituted among men, deriving their just powers
from the consent of the governed that whenever any
form of Government becomes destructive of these
ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to
abolish it and to institute new Government, laying its
foundation on such principles and organizing its
powers in such form as to them shall seem most
likely to effect their Safety and Happiness."
OUR GOAL
The Power to Consume all we want of the things
our country Can and Does Produce.
The Abolition of enforced Unemployment and Po
verty in America for all willing to work.
Work for all who can work; and as a reward to
those who lend their whole-hearted co-operation to
ward the Welfare and Happiness of our people in the
Production and Distribution of the nation's wealth,
they shall share equally with others till their every
need shall be supplied.
Hell for those who won't work.
10
PUBLISHER'S NOTICE
This writer makes no claim of being a
reincarnate Moses; a second Christ; or a
new Napoleon. Original and different-
from-the-rest. He comes with a message
every American should read and ponder
over.
Read him for his cause! Judge him by
the logic of his argument, and the facts
presented herein—he asks no more.
11
Uezino's Hort^Hoardable, Foolproof
TtlONECTJLRl] SySCTEItl
Moses is said to have led the children of Israel
out of the land of bondage. I come to lead the
children of Mankind out of the Land of Want.
Jesus ctpie to preach good will to men and to
save us from the sins of the world, and our im
mortal souls from damnation. He set an example
for us to follow by driving the money-changers
from the Temple. He foretold the coming of the
Kingdom of Heaven on earth, and inspired us to
hope and pray for the things that should be, in the
world God gave to men.
I come, kind-souls, to make possible the fulfill*
ment of the preachments and promises of Jesus of
Nazareth —the Man-God. Therefore, with your as
sistance and co-operation, kind-souls and fellow-
humans, we will begin our task by driving the
Money-Changars from the Temple. We will do
this by first substituting a more godly medium of
exchange; in form: a National Domestic Currency,
guaranteed by the Wealth of the Nation and the
Credit of the American people. Learn the truth
about
it,
and what
it
will do for you who live in
the Land of Scarcity and Want, in dire poverty
amidst plenty. Learn the truth! by
a
careful peru
sal of these pages. Then
I
know you will lend your
whole-hearted co-operation and support to the Amer
13
ican Army for the Abolition of Poverty. With this
army we hope to build a nation WITHOUT Taxes,
Graft, Unemployment or Poverty. A nation of
liberty, peace and plenty for all; a nation wherein
all may partake to his heart's content, of the things
that should be in the world God gave to men.
Verily I say unto you, my fellow-humans and to
the children of Mankind everywhere, the Kingdom
of Heaven on Earth is at hand; prepare to leave
this man-made Hell, and be counted among the
righteous, the Godly who have learned the truth
and the way from these pages. Read this book,
if you never read another. And may God bless
you to see the light and act aright.
TO THE AMERICAN MASSES
Come with me kind Souls, lost on your pilgrimage
Across the desert sands of scarcity,
Come! I mill guide you out and away
From this man-made-Hell of Poverty amidst
_ * , plenty.
Come! and I will shozv you the way
To a New Era of Civilization!
Where, in a tax-free Land of Liberty, peace and
plenty
"Scarcity," Unemployment and the "Curse of
Poverty" are unknown.
Come! To where all are free to partake of abundance
to their heart's content.
Come, Pilgrims! Let us be on our way ere we
perish here—
The prey of the wolfish-imps of the money-mad-clan.
Come!
—Vezino
14
THE AMERICAN ARMY FOR THE
ABOLITION OF POVERTY
Now organizing —The American Army for the
Abolition of Poverty, the greatest humanitarian move
ment for social justice since the world began, since
Jesus preached "Good Will To Men." .
* * *
Ladies and Gentlemen and Fellow Countrymen —
of whatsoever color, race, creed or sect, we care not
on what part of the globe nor under what flag you
first saw the light of day. We only want to know
that you are an American citizen willing to assist
in bringing about this greatest of all Economic Re
forms for the civilizing of mankind—the Abolition of
Poverty. We consider this the sublimest and noblest
cause, since Jesus preached "Good Will to Men."
WE ASK YOUR CO-OPERATION
And for this reason we are here to ask you, good
people of America, and especially you of the under
privileged millions whose toil creates not only the
necessities and comforts of this life, but also those
luxuries which only your so-called "privileged few"
may enjoy —because of the "curse of poverty" they
have crowned you with by the manipulation of an
unfair—if not devilish—money system, making them
selves the privileged few, and you, the underprivileged
masses —if you please. Such, good people, is the
Civilization of the "Era of Capitalism," now in its
declining years, and passing out as fast as the growing
intelligence of the Masses will permit.
Now listen, good people! In a fair and honest
government, money should be used as a medium of
15
exchange only, and not to be hoarded and used to
exact "interest" and "profit" from the more unfor
tunate —reducing them to poverty and slavery. And
you know I speak the truth. However, we are here
to ask you to join us in this greatest humanitarian
movement for "Social Justice" since the world began
—American Army for the Abolition of Poverty.
Now we want you to know that the American
Army for the Abolition of Poverty is a non-profit
organization, and we are not asking you to pay any
dues. All we ask that you do is READ our litera
ture ! Study our purpose ! And lend us your whole
hearted CO-OPERATION in this great cause to free
yourselves from the curse of poverty and make our
country a decent place in which to live. WILL YOU
DO IT?
As a member of this Army your name will be writ
ten on our Roll of Honor, not only as one who as
sisted in this great cause, the Abolition of Poverty,
but in the birth of a New Era of Civilization wherein
scarcity, interest, profit, taxes and graft, as well as
unemployment and the curse of poverty shall be
unknown. It is to be an era of cooperation and
Production For Use—under private ownership. Will
you not assist in the attainment of this "Kingdom of
Heaven on earth"? Then get your name on our Roll
of Honor.
We want you to know, good people, that we have
not come to lure you back to some crude form of
civilization wherein you would become the goose-
stepping slaves of a dictator. Nor have we come to
offer you socialism or communism—but pure "democ
racy" at the acme of its perfection.
16
OUR PURPOSE
Now listen, good people, for we want you to get
EVERY WORD of this that you may UNDER
STAND AND BE ABLE TO EXPLAIN TO
OTHERS just what we propose to do.
We propose that our Government shall first regis
ter and furnish numbered Identification Cards to each
and every citizen of the United States and its terri
tories who shall have reached the age of maturity.
And, we propose that our Government shall issue
a new National Domestic Currency —in checkbook
form only, non-hoardable and foolproof in every
particular, to be full legal tender for all. debts within
the LTnited States and its territories, and of NO
VALUE in foreign countries. And,
We propose that our Government shall continue
to use our present money —gold and silver—for
foreign exchange as now, in our dealings with
foreigners and with foreign countries, And,
We propose that our Government shall gather in
such of its present Currency and Coin as shall there
after find its way into circulation within our country
and its territories by requiring all persons paying out
same to copy the "Identification Number" of the
party to whom paid, and turn this in to the Govern
ment together with the "amount paid." That the
Government may withdraw it from circulation to be
used for governmental purposes, such as the payment
of our sailors, soldiers, naval officers and those who
represent us abroad, where the National Domestic
"Pay-As- You-Go" money would be of no value.
And,
17
We further propose that this non-hoardable, fool
proof individual check book currency shall be spend
able only by the individual to whom the Government
shall have issued, it. Now store that in your "think-
box" that you may remember it. All persons, re
ceiving this currency in exchange for Services, Goods
or other values will be required to deposit same with
the Government when applying for another allotment
or check book of this non-hoardable National Do
mestic currency for his or her own use.
These "deposits" will show the extent of your
co-operation in the production and distribution of
the necessities and common comforts of life, as well
as in the general Welfare, Progress and Prosperity
of the life of the nation.
When applying for your first allotment of this
non-hoardable National Domestic Currency (which
will be given you free of cost) you will be asked the
nature of your business? Trade? Profession or present
means of earning the "price of existence," so to speak.
And such other source of income as you may have.
All this will be carefully written under your number.
Also, your present earning capacity —profits, com
missions, salary, wages, dividends, rents, etc., all of
which will be carefully noted on the Government's
record of your number.
You will then be asked the following question:
"If we, your Government, keep you supplied with
UNLIMITED spending money, will you be willing
to turn over to the government your entire income
thereafter?" Realizing that your "entire income" will
soon be coming to you in NON-HOARDABLE AND
NON-SPENDABLE CURRENCY you will readily
pledge yourself to do so.
You will then be asked to pledge your whole
hearted co-operation in the Welfare, Progress and
Prosperity of your country, by remaining at your
present occupation or calling until some more im
portant work can be found for you. When you will
be asked to volunteer your service in that direction,
that the PRODUCTION and DISTRIBUTION of
NECESSITIES and COMMON COMFORTS of
Hfe may not be hampered by YOUR idleness or re
fusal to "do your bit"—which, of course, would cut
you off from your supply of cash. For I would
have you know this is a "Fool-Proof" money system.
However, after satisfying the Government that
you are not going to play a traitor's part at the birth
of this New Era of Civilization wherein all may
partake of abundance to their heart's content. You
will be given your first allotment of our new National
Domestic non-hoardable Currency. The face of it
will read :
^MIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII^i
Rational Bomtttit Current?
I Of tljf i
Qlmteb fetate* of America
i Guaranteed by the Wealth of the Nation and the §
| Credit of the American People. Legal Tender \
I for all Debts in United States of America =
\ and Possessions. Of NO VALUE in |
Foreign Countries. For use only by §
| Individual to whom issued.
I Issued to No At i
{
This day of Void after - I
I Paid to No For (Services/Goods) M. cent*.... I
| Signature Address — |
jIImiiIIiiIImmimiimiiIIiiii iiiimiiiiiiiiiiIIiiiiiIIIIIIII' mmmmmIIiiliniinim»»"
19
The back of these certificates will read :
NOTICE! Persons receiving this certificate i»
payment of no matter what shall deposit same with
the Government when or before applying for more of
this currency for personal use.
* * *
WARNING!! The use of this certificate as
money by other than party to whom issued, is Un
lawful and Punishable by IMPRISONMENT.
• * *
Now, good people, I know that you want to know
what kind of security, if any, is behind this National
Domestic Currency to give it VALUE. My friends —
if I may so call you—this currency is backed by the
wealth of the nation! By the gold and silver in our
vaults and in our hills—because it never needs to be
redeemed in gold or silver. It is only paid out once
for value received and is then returned to the
Government and destroyed. It is backed by our
farms and factories and the homes of our people,
by the faith and credit of the American people with
their rifles and machine guns, if need be. What
more do you want behind it ? THINK MEN f
THINK!
How many of you here have ever stopped to
think of what values are behind our present currency
which, as the Rev. Charles E. Coughlin tells us, is
largely "Fountain-Pen money." And he has taken
the trouble to learn the truth about it. Of course, we
have U. S. Bonds behind our currency. And what is
behind the bonds? Nothing but the faith and con
fidence of your ruling class in their ability to tax
you—the people—out of enough to pay the interest
30
and principle on the bonds as they fall due. And by
that process you are impoverished—and you don't
seem to want to realize it.
I am telling you here, good people of America,
that our present financial system is UNFAIR and
UNJUST to you whose toil creates the nation's
wealth. I want to quote here what one of the
Founders of this devil's money system said way back
in 1790:
"Permit me to issue and control the money of a
nation and I care not who makes its laws."
—Mayer Anselm Rotschield
Now it has become common knowledge among all
students of the world's very unsatisfactory economic
conditions that the money question or financial system
is the root of the evil. And this evil has been al
lowed to prevail for more than two thousand years,
because we read in the bible:
"The love of money is the root of all evil."
And listen to this ! As early as 1782, John Adams
wrote to Thomas Jefferson as follows:
"All the perplexities, confusion and distress in
America arise, not from defects in the Constitution
or Confederation, not from want of honor or virtue,
as much as from downright ignorance of the nature
of coin, credit and circulation." —John Adams.
It will be seen by this that early in the history
of our nation the sinister manipulation of money
had already brought unexpected perplexities, con
fusion and distress to our people here in America.
Our people—the Masses—then on a par with—
31
THE MAN WITH THE HOE
Bowed by the weight of the centuries he leans
Upon his hoe and gazes on the ground,
The emptiness of ages in his face.
And on his back the burden of the world.
Who made him dead to rapture and despair,
A thing that grieves hot and that never hopes,
Stolid and stunned, a brother to the ox?
Who loosened and let down this brutal jaw?
Whose breath blew out the light within this brain?
Is this the Thing the Lord God made and gave
To trace the stars and search the heavens for powre;
To feel the passion of Eternity?
Is this the Dream He dreamed who shaped the suns
And marked their ways upon the ancient deep?
Down all the stretch of Hell to its last gulf
There is no shape more terrible than this—
More tongued with censure of the world's blind greed*
More Ulled with signs and portents for the soul—
More fraught with danger to the universe.
What gulf between him and the seraphim!
Slave of the wheel of labor, what to him
Are Plato and the swing of Pleiades?
What the long reaches of the peaks of song,
The rift of dawn, the reddening of the rose?
Through this dread shape the suffering ages look;
Time's tragedy is in that aching stoop;
Through this dread shape humanity betrayed,
Plundered, profaned and disinherited.
Cries protests to the Judges of the World,
A protest that is also prophecy.
39
O, masters, lords and rulers in all lands,
Is this the handiwork you give to God.
This monstrous thing distorted and soul quenched?
How 7vill you ever straighten up this shape;
Touch it again with immortality;
Give back the upward looking and the light;
Rebuild in it the music and the dream;
Make right the immemorial infamies,
Perfidious wrongs, immedicable woes.
0, masters, lords and rulers in all lands,
How will the Future reckon with this Man?
How answer I his brute question in that hour
When whirlwinds of rebellion shake the world?
How will it be zvith kingdoms and with kings—
With those who shaped him to the thing he is—
When this dumb Terror shall reply to God,
After the silence of the centuries?
—Edwin: Markham
In that early day of our republic,' when John
Adams wrote to Thomas Jefferson of the "perplexi
ties, confusion and distress in America"' because of
the imperfections of our money system—and the
ignorance of those blind fools who knew nothing of
"the nature of coin, credit and circulation." Because,
as I said before, the masses of our people were then
on a par with "The Man With the Hoe" and could
not be expected to correct the evils of a financial
system prepared for them by their ruling class whom
they were wont to look upon as "great statesmen" who
were giving them the best they knew in Government.
Their minds were fixed only on the task of earning
23.
their daily bread; they gave.no thought to the nature
of "coin, credit and circulation," nor to the poverty
and misery it was to spread among them. They
were innocent, and, if you will pardon me for saying
so, they were ignorant, unthinking, blind fools.
But it is different now ! The Masses of our
people have learned to read. And many of them
are beginning to THINK and REASON. And today
most of them realize that they are the victims of the
IMPERFECTIONS of their Government! This,
because of the ignorance of those blind fools among
their statesmen who could, if they would, enact laws
that would at least LESSEN THEIR MISERIES
and bring them at least a little nearer to the goal they
are seeking —that of Social Justice! And you know
I speak the truth.
But seeing their ruling class bent on "stacking
the cards" against them, and playing into the hands
of those who enslave them—the imps of the money-
mad-clan. They hold counsel, and as a result of their
deliberations form into various groups—trade unions,
industrial unions, cooperatives, C.I.O's, Production
For Use, Old Age pensions, Socialism and Commu
nism —each believing that they have found the
shortest road to Social Justice—they continue to fol
low Blind Leaders 'round about on the desert sands
of scarcity; getting nowhere, but farther and farther
into the quicksands of poverty.
The parade goes on while the fervor of enthusiasm
lasts. Like the parade of the nations in their Arma
ment race to be prepared for the next WAR! The
M
Nations don't stop to think of higher taxes and prob
able economic ruin and revolution. And so it is with
the workers —the masses of our people who are being
organized in an economic race for "higher wages and
collective bargaining" that they may be prepared to
meet the next DEPRESSION ! If you please. They
too, don't stop to think of the greater costs and
higher prices, which is to rob them of their gains.
"But!" says their leader, "we will remedy that after
we get organized."
Now let me tell you here, good people of still
disunited organized labor. I say disunited! Disunited
by the different opinions of your leaders, disunited by
the superstitions or wrong conceptions of economics,
religion and politics. For in these wrong conceptions
and superstitions which you have yet to overcome,
your minds are kept filled with prejudice and steeped
in hatred. In this, you are still like "The Man With
the Hoe." You must learn to forget that you are
this or that! Remember only that you are workers,
and that as such, you must stand together and VOTE
WITH A PURPOSE!, if you would shorten your
journey thru this man-made-hell and reach the
promised land of Social Justice where all may par
take of abundance to their hearts content.
This can best be done by an improvement in our
monetary system—by the adoption of a National Do
mestic, Non-hoardable, Foolproof Currency, in check
book form only, for use in the United States and its
territories—of NO VALUE in foreign countries. We
shall continue to use our present currency and coin
as now in our dealings with foreigners and foreign
countries.
25
I am telling you here, good people of America,
that this new non-hoardable, foolproof National Do
mestic Currency, in check book form, and only spend
able by the individual to whom it has been issued
by the Government, will give us a financial system
that will put an immediate end to all forms of"
"Graft" by our ruling class—politicians, judges and
policemen.
A financial system that will put an immediate end
to the "Stick-up" game and all crime for monetary
gain—which now costs you taxpayers some fifteen
billion dollars annually. And you know I speak the
truth.
A financial system that will remove at once the
"Strike" menace to industry. Not only that, but
increase production to its full technical capacity. I.
know our industrialists will say amen to this.
A financial system that will create an immediate
and lasting building boom, which will transform our
country into a modern paradise, the like of which
has never before been dreamed of. Great modern
hotels and apartments will spring up everywhere to
accomodate those who prefer to live in them. While
beautiful roomy mansions would replace the cheap
little shacks that we are wont to call "Homes," in
this Land of Want, under the rule of the money-mad-
clan and their devil's money system.
A financial system thht will put an end to lying
26
and perjury among our money-mad-clan to lessen or
avoid the payment of their income tax—for there
will be no more income tax to pay. For I would have
you know, you taxpayers, that under my foolproof
National Domestic Individual Non-hoardable Money
—in check book form—NO TAX in any form would
be necessary. And what a godsend that will be—
only you taxpayers know.
Now I want you to put this into your THINK-
BOX and keep it there. Since everyone —from the
President to the dog-catcher is paid in this NON-
HOARDABLE, INDIVIDUAL, NATIONAL DO
MESTIC CURRENCY which MUST BE RE
TURNED TO THE GOVERNMENT by those re
ceiving it in payment for no matter what, puts the
country on a PAY-AS-YOU-GO basis. And no taxes
are required. For example : Should a "subway"
under a street or a "tunnel" under a river be re
quired, engineers are engaged by the proper authori
ties to prepare plans and estimates —the "Man-power
and machinery" is then put to work. And when
"Pay-day" comes, the Workers are paid as now, but
in NON-HOARDABLE, NATIONAL DOMESTIC
CURRRENCY. NO BONDS have been issued!
There is NO INTEREST to pay! Where the neces
sity for levying a tax? I am telling you here, Mr.
Taxpayer, that this foolproof, NON-HOARDABLE,
NATIONAL DOMESTIC CURRENCY will act as
27
a "magic carpet" upon which you will ride into a New
Era of Civilization where there are NO Sharks of
High Finance ! NO Stock and Bond thieves ! NO imps
of the Money-Mad-Clan to herd you—the masses—
into fields of scarcity that you may know HUNGER
and WANT! And where you are branded —if you
please, with the Curse of Poverty.
26
TO YOU WHO LABOR AND ARE
HEAVY LADEN
"Come unto me, all ye that labor and are
heavy laden and I will give you rest."
—Mathew 11:28.
You will pardon me if I modernize the above
Bible quotation for you American Workers who labor
and are heavy laden with Capitalism's curse of po
verty. YOU of the "underprivileged millions/T
mean. YOU whose toil creates the Nation's wealth.
YOU who allow yourselves to be driven like so many
stupid blind fools into periods of SCARCITY, HUN
GER and WANT in a land where there is plenty for
all—and you know I speak the truth. YOU "Dumb-
Doras" of disunited organized labor from whom
"Prosperity" is kept "just around the corner" by the
cunning of your so-called "privileged few" that you
may not become too well acquainted with it—lest they
lose control of you as their legitimate wage-slaves.
YOU who have so often been told that the cause of
your unemployment and distress is because your rep
resentatives at nation's capital are of the wrong. polit
ical faith—"throw them out!" you are told. "Put the
others in and get Prosperity back with you." And you
have been doing just that for the last 50 years; and
each time your reward has been 4 years more in the
Land of Want. And you know I speak the truth.
They tell you that the cause of all the perplexities,
confusion and distress in America is because of
29
OVER PRODUCTION ! And they actually destroy
the NECESSITIES OF LIFE before your very eyes,
while hunger gnaws at your vitals. And you know
I speak the truth.
•
They tell you that your Banking and MONEY
SYSTEM is the best in the world! That it cannot be
improved. And as long as you are stupid enough to
believe them, the imps of your money-mad-clan, you
will continue to tread your weary way thru Hell to
damnation.
Now let me modernize and bring up-to-date the
above Bible quotation as it would be written by
Mathew in this day and age.
"Come unto me all ye that labor and are
heavy laden with Capitalism's curse of
poverty, and I will give you light to see
the evil of INTEREST and PROFIT."
—Vezino.
an
THE THINGS THAT SHOULD BE IN THE
WORLD GOD GAVE TO MEN
"Man thinks in silence
And it comes to pass'"
The aivakening of divine intelligence
Within the human mind.
Realizing himself within
The wondrous palace of the Mind—
God's great store-house of wisdom.
He sees thru clairvoyant eyes
The things that should be
In the world God gave to men.
Enthusiasm fills his soul with joy;
Stirred to action by the God-zvithin—
Call it Ambition if you will—
He goes forth to preach,
Not the things that are!
In the Land of Greed and Graft,
Ruled by the imps of the money-mad-clan.
But the THINGS THAT SHOULD BE!
In the world God Gave To Men.
—Vezino.
And I'm telling you here, good people, it takes
COLTRAGE to preach Social Justice in a land where
the greed and graft of the imps of the money-mad-
clan is known by the dignified name of High
Finance; where the few live in abundance and style
themselves, the "Privileged Few;" where the many
know aught but scarcity, hunger and want; and are
dubbed the "Underprivileged Millions."
Alas! That this world should be
A man-made Heaven for the few.
A man-made Hell for the many.
But such are the cold realities
Of the Things That Are !
In the World God Gave to Men.
But have Courage! Kind Souls! Have Courage!
For this is an ever changing world where the sun
shine of joy and the shadows of sorrow cause men
to THINK.
And believe it or not, kind souls. Thinking men
soon discover and learn the power of silent thought.
And take it from me, your humble scribe. For I am
telling you here in my own original way. It's in the
unwritten law of Evolution! In the unfolding of the
human mind! In the growth of mankind's intelli
gence ! That men will learn by silent thought to com
municate with the Gods that be.
And when they learn to thus communicate, they
will be shown the shortest and easiest road to the
Things That Should Be In The World God Gave
To Men.
32
THE POWER TO CONSUME AND HOW
TO GET IT
I find that we can best acquire the power to con
sume all we want up to the capacity of our country
to produce, WITHOUT DISTURBING PRIVATE
OWNERSHIP. For what matters it if we national
ize our industries or allow them to continue under
private ownership, as long as we get sufficient pro
duction to satisfy the needs of our people?
The American Army for the Abolition of Po
verty, sponsoring Vezino's non-hoardable, foolfroof
money system—a National Domestic Currency for
use within our country and its territories only, and
spendable only by the person to whom issued —in
check book form. To be used pretty much as bank
checks are now used, with this exception, all per
sons of working age, having been given numbered
"Identification Cards," you make your check payable
to payee's identification number only—copying same
from his or her identification card, checking "goods,"
"service," "rent" to indicate what you paid for. Payee
must be careful to deposit same with the Government
when or before applying for his or her next allot
ment of this National Domestic Currency for person
al use.
We want you to understand that you are to be
kept supplied with this currency by your Government,
that you may have at all times the POWER TO
CONSUME. And you are to be the sole judge of
33
what you want to consume, of the things your coun
try CAN and DOES PRODUCE, whether it be
Food, Clothing, Shelter, Transportation or amuse
ment—you are kept supplied with the POWER TO
CONSUME. You can write your check for five
cents or five million dollars to supply your wants
if need be.
In return for the above Power to Consume, you
must give your whole-hearted cooperation—during
your working years—to the work of creating and
supplying these consumables —whether these consum
ables be hair-cuts in a barber shop or transportation
to a national forest, whether it be the transportation
of foodstuffs from the farm to the marts, you will be
required to do your part to the best of your ability —
in return for the POWER TO CONSUME.
To obtain this Power to Consume, you must join
the American Army for the Abolition of Poverty and
lend your wholehearted cooperation in furthering its
cause —that of sponsoring a National Domestic Cur
rency, non-hoardable and foolproof in every particu
lar—far superior to Gesell's demurrage principle —
which requires the affixing of stamps periodically to
national currency notes—now being advocated in
many countries. This is perhaps because they have
not yet learned the virtues of Vezino's National Do
mestic Currency system, which automatically gives
us Production for Use—under "private ownership."
PRODUCTION FOR USE has heretofore been con
sidered possible only under Socialistic or Commun
istic co-operation and utterly impossible under "priv
ate ownership." But I am neither a socialist nor a
communist. I am an advocate of "democracy"
34
democracy at the acme of its perfection.
Being born with a goodly share of originality and
being somewhat of an efficiency expert, I have solved
the problem of Production For Use—under private
ownership. Of course, this is only possible by the in
troduction and use in our country, of a National Do
mestic Currency —non-hoardable and foolproof in
every particular. With such currency for use as full
legal tender money within our country—backed by
the Wealth of the Nation and the Credit of the
American people—all business will continue as
usual, but only Domestic Currency will be used as
money. And you will be kept supplied with this
money by your Government, that you may have the
POWER TO CONSUME at all times.
Of course, if you care to pay out any of your
present coin or currency, based on gold or silver, you
have that privilege. But! You must be careful to
take the "identification number" of person to whom
you pay
it,
and turn this in to your Government to
gether with the amount paid, that your Government
may collect
it
from the said person (who will willing
ly
give
it
up in return for being kept supplied with,
the POWER TO CONSUME)— and take
it
out of
circulation for use in its new legitimate field, that of
dealing with foreigners and for foreign exchange.
FOREIGNERS— HOW THEY SHOULD BE
DEALT WITH
All foreigners visiting or living as sojourners in
our country, should be given GREEN identification
cards, and not allowed to take or send out of the
35
country more money than they brought into
it,
with
out first obtaining
a
permit from our Government—
and since National Domestic Currency
is
not issued
to foreigners—when paid with same, they may cash
them at Postal Savings or Government bank for sil
ver certificates and coin—as desired —when they will
be furnished Government Cards upon which to
write identification number and amount paid. These
cards may be dropped in a mail-box, no stamp re
quired. Foreigners remaining more than one year
within our country should either take immediate
steps to become
a
citizen or show cause why they
should not be deported.
NATIONAL DOMESTIC CURRENCY FULL
LEGAL TENDER FOR ALL DEBTS
When this NATIONAL DOMESTIC CUR
RENCY shall have been enacted into lawful money
within our country,
it
immediately becomes full legal
tender for ALL debts—which will include the mort
gage on your farms and your homes. To refuse to
accept this currency in payment of debt, rent, service
or goods, will be TREASON against your govern
ment—for which you may be shot as
a
traitor.
THE IMPERFECTIONS OF OUR MONETARY
SYSTEM AND ITS RESULTANT
POVERTY AND CRIME
Good People of America! (I say good people, be
cause I am not talking to the bad ones) You have
been viewing with growing concern the repeated acts
of violence in your country —"Stick-ups", "Graft"
and "Gangsterism." These we will admit are real
criminals of high and low degree—the result of the
imperfections of our monetary system. Why tolerate
it longer?
You have seen, too, frequent strikes and bloody
riots in your industrial centers, where many an honest
worker's life has been lost in the fight for a living
wage. This, too, is because of the imperfections of
<j(ur monetary system. Why longer tolerate thitf
menace to industry, to the progress and prosperity of
our people?
You have witnessed too, the wrecking of more
than 20,000 banks wherein thousands of honest work
ing people have lost their life savings; and you have
seen thousands upon thousands lose their homes and
farms—because of the imperfections of our monetary
system and the greed of our money-mad-clan—includ
ing our international bankers in whose hands our dis
honest politicians and pretending statesmen have, by
the National Bank Act and subsequent Acts, placed
control of our monetary system—our medium of ex
37
change—that they might use it to gamble with in
promoting their game of "Corporate Stock and Bond"
thievery; they call it by the more dignified name of
"High Finance" that you of the Masses may not
understand. This, too, is because of the imperfections
of our monetary system.
CRIME ON THE INCREASE
You have been told by J. Edgar Hoover of your
Department of Justice that CRIME IS ON THE IN
CREASE, and that it is costing you taxpayers in the
aggregate $15,000,000,000 each and every year. And I
am telling you here, as your efficiency expert, that
this is because of the imperfections of our monetary
system. Why not improve it and save these $15,000,-
000,000?
You have been told, too, back in 1935, by that
peerless statesman, the late Senator Huey P. Long,
who was murdered for daring to tell the truth, that
"six hundred families control more of this nation's
Wealth and in fact twice as much as all the balance of
the people put together." This, too, is because of the
imperfections of our monetary system which enriches
the few and impoverishes the many. And you know I
speak the truth.
You have been told by a writer of truthful facts,
James Truslow Adams, in his book The Epic of
America (which you should not fail to read) that
"fewer than twelve men control the wealth and des
tiny of the United States." Why? Because of the
imperfections of our monetary system. And the cure
of these imperfections is found in my non-hoardable,
38
foolproof, honest medium of exchange —a National
Domestic Currency for use only within our country
and its territories, and of NO VALUE in foreign
countries. We to continue the use of our present
money in our dealings with foreigners and foreign
countries. Read about it ! Study it ! It is foolproof in
every particular. Its adoption will mean a New Era
of Civilization ! Without TAXES ! Without GRAFT !
Without UNEMPLOYMENT ! Without POVERTY !
And all this under private ownership as now. I am
not advocating fascism, socialism or communism, but
pure "democracy" at the acme of its perfection.
"Learn the truth, and the truth shall set you free."
39
SOVEREIGN CITIZENS OR IGNORANT,
BLIND FOOLS?
Now, Good People of the American Masses, is it
because of the ignorance of those blind fools, so
numerous amongst us, that we continue to tolerate
these conditions? Or is it because we ourselves are
so stupid and ignorant that we don't know how to
correct these evils growing out of the imperfections
of our monetary system?
Believe it or not, good people, these conditions
exist today because we have not been watchful of
our sovereignity which has just about been taken
away from us—and may be taken away entirely in
the near future if we don't wake up. Our ruling class
—our statesmen and politicians have—for many years,
as you know, allowed a privileged few of the Classes,
the imps of our money-mad-clan, to control the vol
ume and regulate the value of our money. And they
have transformed our honest medium of exchange by
clever manipulation into a devil's money system, by
which they, the "privileged few", are immensely and
undeservedly enriched by the impoverishment of the
many —the masses of our people. Are we sovereign
citizens or ignorant, blind fools?
After careful study by efficiency experts of the
41
cause of "depressions" and the rapid growth of pov
erty in many lands where greater wealth is being pro
duced than ever before, it has been found, that not
only in our own country, but the troubles of the en
tire world is because of the greed of the money
changers— the imps of the money-mad-clan.
WHY WAIT FOR THE SECOND COMING
OF CHRIST
Shall we continue to keep our eyes and ears closed
and ignore the dangers that beset us, and wait for
the second coming of Christ to save us?
Shall we sleep the sleep of lethargy and remain
in a state of apathy and inaction, as the Chinese
people have done, until the imps of the money-mad-
clan and their fascist hordes lay their bloody hands
upon us as they have the people of Spain and China?
Good People of America, these are questions for
you to answer NOW. And your answer should be—
a Membership in the American Army for the Aboli
tion of Poverty.
The purpose of this army, as you know, is to free
the masses of our people from the curse of poverty
amidst plenty, by driving out of the land the Money
Changers, usurious Loan Sharks, stock and bond
thieves, international bankers and other imps of our
money-mad-clan whose principle business is keeping
the "Hog of Plenty" safely away from the Masses of
our people, while allowing the "Wolf of Want" to
prowl freely among them that they may know the
Curse of Poverty. WAKE UP and join the American
Army for the Abolition of Poverty. Do it NOW?
That with your co-operation we may end the rule of
our money-mad-clan and their political henchmen, and
install for ourselves and coming generations of our
43
countrymen, an honest medium of exchange. And by
so doing, we can attain for ourselves, good people of
America, while yet we live to enjoy
it,
DEMOC
RACY at the Acme of its Perfection.
And so
I
say to you American Workers, to you
industrial workers, to you farmers and laborers, and
to you of disunited organized labor, forget your petty
prejudices and jealousies, forget that you are this or
that, and in this one cause UNITE! Demand in
justice to all, that your Govrenment take your money
system out
of
the hands
of
private bankers, for
ever put an end to periods
of
business stagnation and
unemployment—"depressions" we call them.
That there must be a reason for periodical de
pressions and business stagnation in
a
land where
natural resources are in abundance, all will admit.
And, shall
I
tell you that that reason has been the
lack of good management on the part of our ruling
class. They first showed their lack of good manage
ment when, motivated by greed and avarice, tney
found that money —although intended only as
a
med
ium of exchange, its God-given purpose —could be
used to lend. And influenced by
a
small group of
selfish and avarcious usurers, who showed them that
great fortunes could be made
if
only the right to
issue and control the volume and value of money were
placed in their hands. Our ruling class fell for this.
The people were betrayed. The National Bank Act,
and subsequent Acts, including the Federal Reserve
Bank Acts, were passed in violation of the Constitu
tion of the United States, which distinctly says that
"Congress shall have the power to coin money and
44
regulate the tvlue thereof and of foreign coins."
This power was turned over to private bankers
not only in violation of the Constitution, but without
the knowledge or consent of the people. And ever
since that fateful day, your Government —with the
Wealth of the Nation and the Credit of the American
people behind
it,
has been borrowing money from
these private bankers upon INTEREST BEARING
BONDS. And you wonder why you are being taxed
out of your farms and your homes.
We are told today by irrefutable statistical facts
that these "private bankers" control more than one
fourth of the property and business of the United
States. Why? Because of the imperfections of our
monetary system.
45
MONEY— A GODSEND AND A CURSE
Before money came into use a barter system was
used, and history tells us that there has been used
at various times by various people, as a medium of
exchange, such things as Wampum, Sheep, Tobacco,
Salt, etc., until Divine Intelligence prompted someone
to go into the silent Land of Thought—which I call
the Wondrous Palace of the Mind—God's great store
house of wisdom, and came forth with a new idea—
Money.
Webster defines money as "a piece of metal, as
gold, silver, copper, etc., coined and stamped by
authority of government." And further defines it as
"Any written or stamped certificate or order, as a
government note, a bank note, a certificate of deposit,
which is payable in standard money."
In our day, honest money is the Credit of the
People, monetized by Government in Dollars and
Cents upon any material suitable for a Circulating
Medium of Exchange, made "Full Legal Tender" in
payment of all debts for commodity, property or
service values.
Money of itself is not wealth. It is merely a
Public Utility, used as a representative of value and
is redeemable in any commodity on the market for
sale.
The security which gives money its value, is the
Wealth of the Nation—the fiat—honor and stability
47
of the Government issuing it as a medium of ex
change for the convenience and welfare of its
people. As a medium of exchange it has been a
godsend. But misers, hoarders and devils have made
it a curse.
GODS, DEVILS, AND FOOLS
Now, in the cold reality of things as they are in
our day; we find that we are living in a world com
posed of just three kinds of people—Gods, Devils
and Fools, or, in other words, the Godly, the Devilish,
and the Foolish. These, after being well mixed, are
divided into what we know as the Classes and the
Masses —the "privileged few" and the "underprivi
leged millions."
And because gods are few and devils are many,
and the fools—most numerous among the masses of
our people, have the minds of children —read the
funnies, study the baseball games, prize fights, dog
and horse racing, and give no thought to economics
or the responsibilities of sovereign citizenship, the
devils have taken over our money system, our honest
medium of exchange, that they might control and
manipulate it as a gambling device to enrich them
selves by regulating the price of tke toilers' bread.
Now I want to quote here from Money And
Credits by John A. Simpson, "In January, 1920, while
in Washington on business for the Oklahoma Far
mers' Union of which I was State President at the
time, I visited John Skelton Williams, Comptroller of
the Currency. We had the following conversation :
Mr. Simpson: "When is deflation going to begin?"
Mr. Williams : "The other members of the Federal
49
Reserve Board voted a few days ago to have it begin
in May."
Mr. Simpson: "Don't you know that will be a cal
amity to this country?"
Mr. Williams: "I told the other members of the
board that it would break lots of little banks and they
cold bloodedly replied to me, "they ought to break,
there are too many of them." I told the other members
of the board such a policy would ruin lots of farmers,
and they just as cold bloodedly answered, "they
ought to be ruined, they are getting so prosperous
they will not work."
Since May, 1920, when this terrible deflation pol
icy was inaugurated, nearly 20,000 banks have closed
their doors. Two million farmers have lost their
homes through foreclosures and tax sales. Hundreds
of thousands of small business men have been put
out of busineess by bankruptcy courts.
"All the wars in which this nation ever engaged ;
all the calamities from the elements, fires, floods,
tornadoes; all the pestilence of disease in the 150
years of the life of our country all of it combined,
wars, calamities, pestilences, does not equal the mis
ery and suffering brought on the people by these
sejlfish, covetous, greedy, grasping international
bankers through the control of the money crop of
the country."
The above truthful words are taken from Mr.
John A. Simpson's "Money and Credits." And I
would have you know here, that the American
Army for the Abolition of Poverty has come to cor
rect the evil, by advocating Vezino's Non-Hoardable,
50
Foolproof Money System, which will automatically
five us: Production- For-Use —under Private owner
ship.
Here is a Money System that will drive the
"Money Changers" out of the Temple —by making
"Usury" a thing of the past.
Here is a money system that will compel honesty
among our politicians —by making "bribery" and
"graft" things of the past.
Here is a Money System that will make all
Crime for monetary gain a thing of the past.
Here is a Money System that will lift the bur
den of debt from rich and poor alike.
Here is a Money System that will make periodi
cal "depressions" a thing of the past.
Here is a Money System that will make the col
lection of TAXES a thing of the past.
Here is a Money System that will make "Strikes"
and "Lockouts" things of the past.
Here is a Money System that will make Unem
ployment and the curse of poverty things of the
past.
Here is a Money System that will bring an im
mediate and lasting PROSPERITY! That will trans
form our country into a modern Paradise —a veritable
"Kingdom of Heaven on Earth," such as Jesus fore
saw in the then distant future, when He uttered the
prayer : "Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, on
earth as it is in heaven."
A Money System that only "devils" and "fools"
will object to—What is YOUR objection?
51
STAMP MONEY NOT FOOLPROOF!
The Story of Woergl and Alberta
During the great depression when there was no
more money in circulation; having been withdrawn
by the banks and hoarded by the lucky few who
had not already lost it. Many kinds of scrip was
put into use by Co-operative groups and others who
found it convenient to have a medium of exchange
that would answer their purpose where regular
money was not to be had. Of the various kinds of
Scrip used, Dated Stamp Scrip proved to be the
most successful for use on a large scale. It proved
to be a Godsend in Woergl, Austria. For here May
or Unterguggenberger of Woregl, a socialist, quick
ly decided that so far as his town was concerned
the depression was not due to overproduction or the
lack of a planned economy, and he did not depend
on the government to bring relief to his distressed
people. Common sense told him that the trouble was
with the medium of exchange that had gone into
hoarding or otherwise disappeared. The people had
no money to trade with. Business was at a stand
still. The treasury was depleted. The Government
could render no aid because it too was heavily in
debt and its treasury depleted also.
However, a non-hoardable dated stamp scrip was
issued by the Woergl town council for use of the
Emergency Relief Department. The scrip was of
ficially designated as "Certified Compensation Bills."
53
On the right hand side of the face of the note, which
was entirely yellow in color, were twelve dated
spaces for the stamps, on the dated spaces was the
inscription "Relief Contributions," in small letters.
Each little stamp read "contribution." On the left
side of the bill at the top was the statement, "They
alleviate need, give work and bread." Underneath
was the seal of Woergl, and the official name, "Cer
tified Compensation Bill" Denominations of One,
Five and Ten Schillings were issued.
On the reverse side of the bill is the following
appeal :
TO ALL No
Slowly circulating money has thrown the world
into an unheard of crisis, and millions of working
people are in terrible need. From the economic view
point, the decline of the world has begun with horri
ble consequences for all. Only a clear recognition of
these facts, and decisive action can stop the break
down of the economic machine, and save mankind
from another war, confusion and desolation.
Men live from the exchange of what they can
do. Through slow money circulation this exchange
has been crippled to a large extent, and thus millions
of men who are willing to work have lost their rights
to live in our economic system. The exchange of
what we can do must therefore again be improved,
and the rights to live be regained for all those who
have already been cast out. This purpose the "Certi
fied Compensation Bills of Woergl" shall serve.
THEY ALLEVIATE NEED, GIVE WORK
AND BREAD.
M
The redemption of this Stamp Money or Scrip,
was guaranteed by the town of Woergl who decreed
at the outset that payment on arrear in taxes and
present day payments could be made in the stamp
scrip. Gas, water, electricity and other services which
Woergl furnished were also to be paid in scrip. This
gave the over-cautious merchants and others confi
dence, and in less than a week everybody in Woergl
was more than willing to accept it and pass it on.
Prosperity was again in Woergl. The unemployed
were put to work. Miles of streets were paved; new
sewers were laid and old ones repaired, etc.
Here are some facts which appeared in the New
Outlook in March, 1933, "A trustworthy correspond
ent and economist who visited Woergl on January
4th, 1933, and who had a long interview with May
or Unterguggenberger, learned the following facts:
"Stamp scrip is accepted everywhere and passed
on without difficulty or question, the only exceptions
being the post office and railway.
"We are extremely satisfied with the work per
formed by stamp scrip. I estimate that it circulates
at least 20 times as fast as legal tender money."
"In the first few days of the new scrip regime,
already 6,003 Schillings had been paid into the city
treasury to pay off the arrears in taxes and to meet
other bills. Today the outstanding claims of the city
have almost all been wiped out, and current bills
are being promptly met.
"After the plan had been in operation one month,
Woergl was able to extend loans to business men of
55
good standing. The Welfare Department has been
able to put more men to work and has asphhalted and
improved 7 streets, amounting to four miles of im
proved streets.
"Woergl has extended its sewer system in three
streets and improved it in other streets, and has
improved 14 roads of about 8 miles length. The for
ests have been taken care of, trees replanted and
wide areas cleared. A new ski-jump is being con
structed. A large water tank for protection against
forest fires and town fires is also under construction."
So signal had been the achievement of this Non-
hoardable, Stamp Scrip of Woergl, that economists
and statesmen —who had the welfare of the Masses at
heart —began to advocate its adoption in many lands.
And it is still being advocated in many lands. The
city of Chicago, is said to have rescued itself from
bankruptcy by its use. Believing that what had been
done on a small scale could be done nationally in
America, Senator Bankhead and Congressman Pet-
tengill introduced "Stamp Money" bills in Congress
in 1933. The bills were discussed on the floor of the
Senate as well as in the House, but they did not
come up for consideration—because of the imps of
the money-mad-clan and the ignorance of those blind
fools.
However, a non-hoardable stamp money was en
acted into law in Alberta, Canada. And would have
worked a miracle there had not the Money Changers
and other imps of the Clan bought it up, that it
might not return its expected revenue. It failed to
circulate in Alberta, because it was not "foolproof"
56
like VEZINO'S NON - HOARDABLE FOOL
PROOF MONEY SYSTEM, which provides you
with Pay-As-You-Go Full Legal Tender Currency,
which is SPENDABLE ONLY by YOU. Hence it
is of NO VALUE to the "Stick-up" man or to the
"Money-Mad-Clan." What a Godsend.
Vezino's Non-Hoardable Foolproof Money Sys
tem is not a "Stamp Scrip," but a National Domes-
itc Currency, good for all debts within the nation
and its territories or colonies. And of NO VALUE
in foreign lands. Gold and silver being the measure
of value in foreign lands; we shall continue to use it
in our dealings with them. But our people here in
the homeland, must not be limited in their purchas
ing power by the scarcity of gold and silver in the
land, kept hoarded by the Money-mad-clan; they
must have a purchasing power limited only by the
Wealth of the Nation of which they are a vital part.
I hold that those who do common labor in the up
building of our country, are entitled to a medium of
exchange that will give them the same purchasing
power as the man who sits a few hours a day on a
Supreme Court bench. They are entitled to the same
common comforts of life, and even to the available
luxuries their country has produced, as well as a Su
preme Court judge or those who sit in our Senate
Chambers. But because of the selfishness of the few
and our devil's money system, those who do the
hardest work in the up-building of the nation—in
the production of the nation's wealth, are not only
denied the common comforts of life, but are ofttimes
denied the privileged of earning the bare necessities of
life. And are looked upon with little more consid
57
eration than the homeless dogs of the street. And
you know I speak the truth.
However, I believe that those who work with
their hands and play an honest part in the upbuilding'
of the nation, whatever their task may be, that of a
dishwasher, common laborer, skilled mechanics or an
executive of some great industry; they are entitled to
every bit as large a share in the wealth produced by
their nation as a whole, as the chief executive of a
great industry or those who sit upon our Supreme
Court benches. And why not? Have they not played
as vital a part in the creation of the nation's wealth?
Would YOU deny them the same buying power at
the end of their hard day's work, as those who
work but a few hours with their heads? Don't YOU
think that those who do the rough hard work in the
creation of the nation's wealth, are entitled to an
equal share with those who do the planning? If you
don't. Then you had better have your head exam-
nied and your conscience psycho-analyzed—. It may
be warped and perverted by jealousy and selfishness!
You should read "THINK! MEN! THINK!" by
this author. "America, Awake !" by Oscar Brum-
bach, "The Epic of America" by James Truslow
Adams, "Looking Backward" and "Equality" by Ed
ward Bellamy, "Looking Forward" by Franklin D.
Roosevelt and "Money" by Rev. Charles E. Cough-
iln. Study the Plight of the Farmers who work from
58
day-light till dark to feed our people for barely
enough to pay the interest on his mortgage. He can't
afford to pay living wages. The money-mad-clan
regulates both the price and sale of his product.
Study the contents of these books and probably you
will be able to understand the necessity of a change
in our monetary system.
(9
LOANING MONEY TO THE GOVERNMENT!
A BANKER TELLS US HOW IT IS DONE
Mr. John A. Simpson of Oklahoma City, Okla
homa. Says: "When I was president of the First
National Bank of Weatherford, Oklahoma. One
day as president of that bank, I lent this Govern
ment $25,000. Figuratively speaking, I laid $25,000
of the bank's money on the counter of the Secretary
of the Treasury in Washington. He laid beside that
$25,000 for the bank this Government's note bear
ing interest at a certain rate, payable quarterly. The
note running a certain period of years. The note
was a Government bond with coupons attached. I
left the bond with the Secretary of the Treasury
and asked to have the Government furnish me
$25,000 of blank national bank notes. The Govern
ment very obligingly ran these blank notes in the
sum of $25,000 off their printing presses. They were
not money until I signed John A. Simpson right
over where the Government had printed on each
blank note, "President of the First National Bank of
Weatherford, Oklahoma." When I signed these notes
there was just as much money in the vaults of the
First National Bank of Weatherford, Oklahoma, as
there was when I took $25,000 out to lend the Gov
ernment. In other words, I had just as much money
to lend out to merchants and farmers at Weather
ford at high rates of interest, and at the same time
Uncle Sam, every three months, sent the interest on
61
his note that I had left with him in Washington.
When Uncle Sam has paid the last coupon on that
bond I left with him, he will have taxed you citi
zens of this country, more than $25,000 and paid it
to the First National Bank of Weatherford, Okla
homa ; in order to have me sign and make money for
the people of the United States to use.
"Every time you look at a national bank note, if
it is a $10 bill, you can be sure that this Govern
ment paid the bank that issued it $10 in interest to
have the banker sign it to make money for the peo
ple to use. If it is a $100 national bank note, this
Government taxed the people sufficient to pay the
bank $100 in interest for the people to have that bill
to use as a medium of exchange. That is your na
tional bank system. You have been told by these
cruel, inhuman, criminal international bankers
through the press of the country that this was a
sound money system."
62
THE WORRIES OF OUR BANKER CLAN
{A paraphrase of an article by George Hickling of
the Social Credit Newspaper)
A master Mind of the banking clan in a confi
dential talk to his financial friends of the clan, said:
"We are facing a crisis—the markets are glutted
with goods in spite of unprecedented unemployment,
and there is no doubt whatever that if we permit
this situation to persist and grow, those Social Jus
tice advocates will use it and the people will find
out what we must succeed in concealing—whatever it
may cost."
Here the Big Banker paused to let the signifi
cance of his opening words sink in.
"If I remind you, gentlemen, of those already ad
vocating a change in our monetary system on the
one hand, and on the other of the immense potentiali
ties of modern science and the use of machine power
in production, you will realize the extent of the dan
ger now confronting us.
"Happily for us, neither the producers or the
consumers as a whole realize the meaning of the
machine in production, or the meaning of our bank-
credit relating to price building and marketing.
"The danger is close at this moment owing to
the simultaneous presence (in an obvious way) of
unemployment and poverty in the midst of plenty,
63
and the various radical movements —some of whom
are actually waking the public up and showing them
that the machine in production and adequate money—
a national domestic currency —now being offered the
public for its most serious consideration as a Non-
Hoardable, Foolproof money system that will free
them forever from economic fear and want, and from
the power we hold by the wage-system in forcing
them to work our will or starve —I say. to us, this
picture is terrifying in the extreme, for there is no
doubt whatever that if ever the people see this clearly
—they will act ; and our day of power, power to rule,
power to reward, power to withhold, power to pro
mote our good servants into high places, power to
punish will be gone ! The people—mind you, gentle
men, the common people—will be free !
"They wiU have access, not only to the abund
ance machine production has made possible, but to
considerable leisure, also, and thereby acquire power
to develop a culture of their own choosing!
"To us, bankers and financiers, this prospect is
so appalling, carrying as it does, a threat t© the very
foundations of our civilization, that I know you will
forgive me if I stress again the nature of the danger,
"I say, if ever the people as a whole, or a vot
ing majority of them, glimpse the potentialities of
Vezino's Non-Hoardable Foolproof Money System. —
a National Domestic Currency, in check-book form,
which will put money into their hands, money to
buy the things they want regardless of cost; we of
the privileged few, gentlemen, will no longer remain
the "privileged few" which our present monetary
64
system has made us and guarantees us—by making
it possible for us to keep the curse of poverty upon
the common people. We must fight any and all
changes in our monetary system if we would retain
our present privileges. We must poison the minds
of the people against National Domestic Currency by
ridicule.
"But aside from those who would wreck our
monetary system and rob us of our special privileges
—the situation is still desperate. And while we have
succeeded in making the common people believe that
the Townsend Plan is impossible : we must now give
our attention ot the growth of organized labor—we
must not fail to brand the most dangerous of their
leaders as "reds." This will divide them and weaken
their effectiveness. We can spread fascism in their
ranks. And we must not allow them to become too
prosperous. This can best be done by restricting pro
duction—control of crops."
"We must be careful, however, to hide our motif
of restriction, we must pretend we are planning for
higher prices, then we will get the willing support
of the producers, for by promises of bigger returns,
greater financial profits, and so on, they will sup
port crop control legislation under the illusion that
we are planning higher prices for their benefit.
"The consumer always has and will continue to
accept our orthodox teaching that if there isn't much
food in the market they must pay more money to
get a bit of what there is.
"If we would retain our privileges, and remain
bankers and financiers, whose principal business the
65
collection of rent, interest and profit, we must not
have the markets glutted before the eyes of the con
sumers; our legislators must make it impossible or
illegal to grow so much.
"We must plan work but work of a kind
that won't glut up our home markets with consum
able goods. For example, machinery and armaments
for export, and especially public works as that keeps
the people deluded that we are at least making an
effort to fight unemployment.
"But the poor we must always have with us, if
as bankers and financiers, we would retain the power
we wield."
You can see by the above paraphrased article
that the poor bankers have their worries and their
viewpoints. Think! Men! Think!
HOW BANKERS PLANNED THE
PANIC OF 1893
"The Truth About Money" is told in an expose
of "The System," published by "Honest Money
Founders, Inc," 612 Michigan Avenue, Chicago,
(1935). A letter sent out by the Bankers Association
in the spring of 1891 reads:
"We hereby authorize our loan agents in the
western states to loan our funds on real estate to
fall due on Sept 1, 1894, and at no time thereafter.
We will not renew our loans under any considera
tion. On September 1, we will demand our
money. We will foreclose and become mortgagees
in possession. We can take two-thirds of the farms
west of the Mississippi, and thousands of them east
of the great Mississippi as well, at our own price
. . . We may as well own three-quarters of the farms
of the west and the money of the country. Then the
farmers will become tenants, as in England. After
Sept. 1, the interest we receive on coupons will be
accumulated. We will not lend any of our funds af
ter that date as we can make more money with-hold-
ing our interest income."
In other words, the bankers wanted "a planned
panic in '93."
67
HOW A MONEY SHORTAGE IS MADE BY
THE IMPS OF OUR DEVIL'S
MONEY SYSTEM
Read this letter from the Bankers' Association
to bankers and loan agencies:
"March 11, 1894. Dear Sir: The interests of the
national banks require immediate financial legislation
by Congress. Silver, silver certificates and Treasury
Notes must be retired and National Bank notes upon
a gold basis made the only money. This will require
the authorization of 500 million to a billion dollars
of new bonds as the basis of circulation. You will
at once retire one-third of your circulation (your
paper money) and call one-half your loans. Be care
ful to make a money shortage."
Believe it or not! That money shortage was felt
in more than 50,000,000 homes.
Now, good people, are we going to continue to
suffer scarcity and want at the hands of these wily
imps of our banker clan with their devil's money sys
tem, or have we the courage red-blooded Americans
should have to demand a change in our monetary
system—from a dishonest to an honest one Vezino's
Non-Hoardable, Foolproof monetary system— a Na
tional Domsetic Currency, issued by your Govern
ment in check-book form only, and for use only by
our people in our country and its territories; a cur
rency guaranteed by the Wealth of the Nation and
the Credit of the American people—what better basis
of value could you wish for?
PROPHESY! FEAR! AND FACT!
The following prophesy, fears and facts by three
of our greatest presidents —James Madison, Abraham
Lincoln and Woodrow Wilson —separated by half a
century—will perhaps impress you with the immedi
ate necessity of your lending such support and co
operation as lies in your power to assist in build
ing up the American Army for the Abolition of Pov
erty, whose sole mission is to usher in a new Era
of Civilization wherein all may enjoy Social Justice.
This can only be done by correcting the evils of the
world's monetary systems—the real cause of all our
devastating wars, depressions, misery and suffering
in all lands because of the selfish, covetous greed of
the imps of our money-mad-clan and their devil's
money system.
You are now asked to study the following quota
tions of prophecy, fear and fact.
QUOTATION FROM JAMES MADISON:
"We are free today substantially, but the day
will come when our Republic will be an impossibility.
It will be an impossibility because wealth zvill be con
centrated in the hands of a few. A republic cannot
stand upon bayonets, and when that day comes, when
the wealth of the nation zvill be in the hands of a
fexv, then we must rely on the wisdom of the best
elements in the country to readjust the laws of the
nation to the changed conditions.
71
QUOTATION FROM ABRAHAM LINCOLN
"/ see in the near future a crisis approaching that
unnerves me and causes me to tremble for the safety
of my country. As a result of the war, corporations
have been enthroned and an era of corruption in
high places will follow, and the money power of the
country will endeavor to prolong its reign by working
on the prejudices of the people until all tvealth is
aggregated in a few hands and the Republic is de
stroyed. I feel at this moment more anxiety for the
safety of my country than ever before, even in the
midst of war. God grant that my suspicions may
prove groundless.
QUOTATIONS FROM WOODROW WILSON
"The masters of the government of the United
States are the combined capitalists and manufacturers
of the United States.
"The government of the United States is at pre
sent a foster child of the special interests. It is not
allowed to have a will of its own.
"The government, which was designed for the
people, has gotten into the hands of bosses and their
employers, the special interests. An invisible empire
has been set up above the forms of democracy.
"America is not a place of which it can be said,
as it used to be, that a man may choose his own
calling as far as his abilities enable him to pursue it.
"American industry is not free as once it was
free: American enterprise is not free.
"We have restricted credit, we have restricted op
portunity, we have controlled development, and we
72
have come to be one of the worst ruled, one of the
most completely controlled and dominated govern
ments in the civilized world—no longer a govern
ment by free opinion, no longer a government by
conviction and the vote of the majority, but a gov
ernment by the opinion and the duress of small
groups of dominant men"
After reading the above quotations: THINK,
MEN! THINK! And think fast! If you don"t want
to lose your right to LIFE, LIBERTY AND THE
PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS—as they are now
losing it in other lands. And you know I speak the
truth.
73
OUR RULING CLASS— BE THEY GODS !
DEVILS! OR FOOLS?
What is wrong with our ruling class—our so-
called "leaders," executives and powerful men of
wealth throughout the world—be they gods, devils,
or fools? that they should look upon themselves as
the "privileged few" with the power to make Heaven
or Hell here on earth for the rest of us—whom they
dub the "underprivileged millions." Have they be
come so coarsened through the development of their
dissipated and depraved senses that they can no
longer "see" or "hear" the pitiable cries of hundreds
of millions of helpless hungry human beings? More
than 30,000,000 of whom die of actual starvation an
nually. And yet our ruling class orders us to destroy
food right before the eyes of these hunger tortured
human beings.
"What Fools these mortals be!"
—Shakespeare
If the world's so-called leaders and executives
were more humane in their actions toward their fel
low pligrims on this earth, they would not all«'W the
destruction of food-stuffs to boost prices and fatten
the purse of the profit-takers. They would sec to it
that their system of economics was so improved that
none need strave. It should be the first duty of lead
ers and statesmen —who constitute the ruling class in
all lands, to see to the production, distribution and
consumption of the nation's wealth, that all might
75
share according to his need. To see that all might
have opportunity to use his talents and his efforts
in the upbuilding, welfare, progress and prosperity
of the nation that all might be well fed. well clothed
and well housed. Why is this not done? Simply be
cause of our dishonest devil's money system, by
which our banker clan are allowed to steal hundreds
of millions of dollars from our people annually for
loaning our medium of exchange into circulation. A
function which should belong entirely to our govern
ment.
—Vkzino.
76
THE NECESSITY OF A NEW
ECONOMIC SYSTEM
After many years of careful study of the cause
of War, Poverty and Misery among the masses of
the people in all Lands, the Research Department of
The International Institute of Universal Research
and Administration, the "Sponsors" of Mankind
United—a world-wide organization for the Abolition
of Poverty—have found, and are willing to prove,
to the most skeptical, that the cause of all mass mur
ders—War, Poverty, Misery and Death by starva
tion of more than 30,000,000 annually in a world of
plenty, is because of the world's money-mad-clan
and their devil's money system; and they are willing
to prove to the most skeptical the NECESSITY OF
ESTABLISHING A WORLD-WIDE ECONOM
IC SYSTEM BASED UPON SOME MEDIUM
OF EXCHANGE AND CURRENCY OTHER
THAN GOLD OR SILVER.
That "some medium of exchange and currency
other than gold or silver" has been found in Ve-
zino's Non - Hoardable, Foolproof, NATIONAL
DOMESTIC CURRENCY— in Check-book form-
Full Legal Tender for all debts within the nation
and its territories or colonies. Of NO VALUE in
foreign countries. We shall continue to use our pre
sent medium of exchange and currency based on
gold and silver in our dealings with Foreigners and
Foreign countries—at least until they, too, have
77
forsaken their "devil's money system" and the evil
it entails.
Vezino's Non-Hoardable, Foolproof, National
Domestic Currency is SPENDABLE ONLY by the
individual to whom it has been issued. This puts an
END to the "Stick-up" game and "graft;" as well
as ALL CRIME FOR MONETARY GAIN. WHAT
A GODSEND!
Those receiving NATIONAL DOMESTIC CUR
RENCY in payment for services or goods are re
quired to return it to the Government when or be
fore applying for another issue to themselves.
No other money will be allowed to circulate ; those
paying it out are required to copy the "identification
number" of the party to whom paid, and turn this
in to the Government together with the amount
paid; that the Government may withdraw from cir
culation for use in its new legitimate field.
In other words your Government does not take
what money you now possess away from you, when
giving you your first allotment of National Domestic
Currency. But it does give you to understand that
when you spend any part of
it,
you must be careful
to take the "identification number" of party to whom
paid, together with the amount paid
;
and turn this
in to your Government. Your Government will then
demand
it
from party receiving
it
—who
is
under
oath to turn in—in or over to his Government all
money received by him from whatsoever source —ex
cepting money won in
a
foreign Lottery or coming
into your possession through inheritance.
78
MORTGAGED HOMES AND FARMS
Now you want to know about your mortgaged
homes and farms? Well! Don't worry about that.
For I would have you know that the National Do
mestic Currency system I am offering you herein, is
FOOLPROOF IN EVERY PARTICULAR. It is
issued as a FULL LEGAL TENDER CURRENCY
by your Government. To refuse to accept it as such
is TREASON against the Government—punishable
by death. So don't worry about your mortgages —let
the banker do the worrying.
HARD WORK ON THE FARM
I know that some of you think that nobody would
want to work on a farm and that we would all starve
for want of food. Say, listen! At the beginning of
the World War it took but a few weeks to set some
65,000,000 husky young men to murdering each other.
Don't you think that the same number could be set
to work on farms raising food, were it necessary?
They would certainly prefer it to going to war to
kill or be killed.
Listen, again ! Every farm would soon have an
out-door swimming pool surrounded by beautiful
shade trees, where the help—after a four-hour shift—
of hard work in the field could retire for a siesta.
All farms would provide rooms with private bath
for the help and farm workers would no longer be
obliged to find a place to sleep in the field, rolled-
up in a blanket to get a night's sleep—as they have
been doing under this devil's money system. And
you know I speak the truth.
With the latest improvements in farm machinery
79
each farm would produce to its full technical capacity.
If we find that we have large surplusage in some
crops and shortages in others. We will soon find a way
to regulate production to our needs without overfeed
ing the few and starving the many, as now. THINK,
MEN ! THINK !
Prices will be regulated by the cost of PRODUC
TION and DISTRIBUTION. And since all will
have money to pay the price—there will be no price
cutting Money will be worth 100 cents ©n the dollar
—never more, never less.
"Let us unite our efforts for the purpose of pro
viding "EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY FOR
ALL!" And when the time comes to pass along to
another experience, we shall not have to be ashamed
of the use to which we have put life's "priceless gift"
of intelligence—nor ashamed of the way we have
lived our lives."—Mankind United, pp. 162.
"Therefore all things whatsoever you would
that men should do unto you, do you even so
to them." —Mathew 7:12.
80
WHAT INVESTIGATING COMMITTEES
HAVE FOUND
During the carefully planned "depression" after
the World War when millions of our home owners
and fairly well-to-do citizens were made to realize
what "unemployment" meant, they were intentionally
included among the masses whom the imps of our
money-mad-clan had carefully planned to humble by
creating dire poverty among them. However, some
of the more intelligent among these, began to form
Committees to investigate the CAUSE of so rapid
a spread of poverty among the masses of our people
when great surpluses of food-stuffs lay rotting in the
marts. WHY THIS SENSELESS HUNGER AND
MISERY AMIDST PLENTY? And are still de
manding an answer to that question.
I quote here from the findings of the Committee
of the Association of Liberal Freemasons as follows:
"The predatory power of the privileged classes
has attained montrous proportions.
"Another fact of profound significance is that
no privileged class ever voluntarily relinquishes any
advantage which it has gained over the masses. In
precisely the same spirit that monarchs of old clung
to the idea of the divine rights of kings, the predatory
class of our time has defended to the last ditch its
established property rights to the utter disregard of
human rights. Condemning as criminal the violence
81
of the man who lias contended for the right to live
and to feed his children, they have stopped at nothing
in defending their property rights. Not satisfied with
the inhuman practice of turning the worker and his
family out of doors, they have frequently resorted to
any form of violence that would serve their ends. And
the hold which they have secured upon Government
has enabled them to commit the most heinous crimes
under the guise of law enforcement.
"The starling of helpless women and children,
the deliberate fomenting of strikes and riots, open
defiance of larv and Constitution, kidnaping, the cor-
uption of courts, legislatures and public officials, the
wanton destruction of life and property, deliberate
frame-up and conviction of persons known to be in
nocent and even judicial murder by way of the
noose and electric chair, all are crimes which this
predatory class is openly accused of having committed
directly or indirectly, and of which it stands clearly
convicted in the court of public opinion. And further
more, many of these crimes have been committed thru
or condoned by agencies of a Government whose
proper function is to protect rather than violate the
rights of a free people."
Abundant corroberation of the above statements
may be found in the findings of the Wickersham
Commission, the recent investigation by Senator La-
Follette's Committee, and in such publications as
82
Louis Adamic's Dynamite, and the Iniquities of Am
erican Justice— in THINK, MEN! THINK! by
Vezino.
Our purpose in presenting these statements here
is not to kindle hate nor to incite to revenge. Both
would be wrong from the two-fold standpoint of
principle and policy. Our purpose is to set forth cer
tain proven facts which clearly indicate the direction
in which humanity is moving, what its objective
should be and how that object can best be attained.
This Committee also found that the privileged
class with its predatory power had carried us much
too far toward a reactionary extreme, and that the
time has arrived for a decided and unmistakable pro
gressive move toward economic equality thru a re
form in our monetary system, and PRODUCTION
FOR USE. This will mean an economy of abun
dance rather than of scarcity, production for the
public good rather than for "private profit,," co
operation instead of competition, the Golden Rule in
stead of the rule of gold, peace instead of war, love
instead of hate—in short, democracy, or government
of, by, and for the people.
Believe it or not, the American Army for the
Abolition of Poverty is organized to bring this about
through "evolution" rather than "revolution," by
ballots, not bullets. By sheer force of numbers we
hope to turn the attention of our statesmen from the
83
further enrichment of the "privileged few" to the
needs of our "underprivileged millions."
Quoting again from Mankind United, page 238.
"Only by the international acceptance of a type of
currency based upon some medium other than "gold
and silver," can the wealth and consequent power of
the world's hidden rulers be destroyed. An attack
upon a "world-wide" front {and thru the avenue of
an "entirely new type of money" which can "only"
be used by the person to whom it has been issued)
constitutes "the one and only method by which to
prevent the civilisation destroying war of 1937.
84
AMERICA THE VICTIM OF HER
FINANCIAL VAMPIRES
America, once considered the richest nation on
the globe as well as the most powerful. A nation
whose natural resources are still more than enough
for the needs of all her people. As a nation, we have
built up what is probably the world's largest agri
cultural and industrial plant with perhaps the most
highly trained and efficient body of citizens to operate
it. In short, we have here in America all the raw
materials, the machinery and the men to provide more
than enough for all our economic needs.
And yet, our people live in poverty amidst the
plenty their toil has created, because of the selfishness
and avaricious greed of the imps of our money-mad-
clan—the vampires of the nation.
It is know that Hams and Bacon are allowed to
mould in storage, later Inspectors throw coal oil over
and burn. While fruit rots on the trees and vegetables
are being plowed under before the very eyes of
hunger tortured people.
"The millions who are in want, will not
stand by silently forever while the things to
satisfy their needs are within easy reach."
—Franklin D. Roosevelt
Our people are told, by the vampires of the na
tion, that we have "over-production!" But the people
who are compelled to live on "Nicknacks and Scarci
ties" know that it is UNDER-CONSUMPTION!
The Farmer being unable to sell his product, loses
the money to buy—the POWER TO CONSUME.
The farmer being unable to sell his product, loses
his farm to the banker-clan —the vampires of the na
tion, whose ambition and plans are first, to reduce
all property owners to tenants, and then to the status
of a Chinese coolie, that they may become the world's
dictators.
Today we find that these vampires of the nation—
these imps of our money-mad-clan, have by the clever
manipulation of their devil's money system so im
poverished America financially that it is almost im
possible for the government to meet its financial obli
gations by means of taxation. We as a nation find
it necessary to borrow our medium of exchange
from the banks of these same vampires who have
impoverished us by the manipulation of their devil's
money system.
Ye Gods! When will our politicians in Washing
ton, who call themselves statesmen, acquire intelli
gence enough to free our "Ship-of-State" from these
Financial Pirates and their devil's money system that
we may sail on debt-free seas safely into the harbor
of Prosperity? When will our Statesmen have the
courage and good sense to supply our people with a
Pay-As-You-Go Money System that will forever
FREE them from the worry of "debt"? You States
men should quit worrying about what's behind money.
You should more seriously consider what's in front
of money —goods, services and greater wealth for the
nation. Let me remind you here what Lincoln said
about money.
as
LINCOLN SAID ABOUT MONEY
As President, Abraham Lincoln had the courage
to stand up against the Financial Vampires of his
day and fesne government money to help finance the
Civil War. The quotation below is historic:
"Money is the creature of law and the creation of
the original issue of money should be maintained as
an exclusive monopoly of the national government.
"Money possesses no value to the State other
than given to it by circulation.
"Capital has its proper place and is entitled to
every protection.
"The wages of men should be recognized in the
structure of and in the social order as more impor
tant than the wages of money.
"No duty is more imperative on the government
than the duty it owes the people to furnish them
with a sound and uniform currency, and of regulating
the circulation of the medium of exchange so that
labor will be protected from a vicious currency, and
commerce will be facilitated by cheap and safe ex
changes.
"The available supply of gold and silver being
wholly inadequate to permit the issuance of coins of
intrinsic value, or paper currency convertable into
coin in the volume required to serve the needs of the
people, some other bases for the issue of currency
must be developed, and some means other than that
of convertability into coin must be developed to pre
vent undue fluctuations in the value of paper currency
or any other substitute for money of intrinsic value
that may come into use.
87
"The monetary needs of increasing numbers of
people advancing toward higher standards of living
can and should be met by the government. Such
needs can be served by issuing national currency and
credit through the operation of a national banking
system. The circulation of a medium of exchange
issued and backed by the government can be properly
regulated and redundancy of issue avoided by with
drawing from circulation such amounts as may be
necessary by taxation, redeposits and otherwise. Gov
ernment alone has the power to regulate the cur
rency and this credit of a nation.
"Government should stand behind its currency and
the bank. deposits of the nation. No individual should
suffer a loss of money thru depreciated or inflated
currency or bank bankruptcy.
"Government possessing the power to create and
issue currency and credit as money and enjoying the
right to withdraw both currency and credit from
circulation by taxation and otherwise need not and
should not borrow capital at interest as the means of
financing government work and public enterprise.
"The government should create, issue and circu
late all the currency and credit needed to satisfy the
spending power of the government and the buying
power of consumers. The privilege of creating and
issuing money is not only the supreme prerogative of
government, but it is the government's greatest crea
tive opportunity.
"I!y the adoption of these principles, the long-felt
want tor a uniform medium will be satisfied. The
taxpayers will be saved immense sums in interest, dis
counts, and exchanges. The financing of all public
88
enterprise, the maintenance of stable government and
ordered progress, and the conduct of the Treasury
will become matters of practical administration. The
people can and will be furnished with a currency as
safe as their own government. Money will cease to
be the master and become the servant of humanity.
Democracy will rise superior to the money power."
Now, I would have you listen to—
EDISON'S VIEWS ON MONEY
In an interview with America's great inventive
genius, Thomas Edison, on his trip to inspect Muscle
Shoals as published in the New York Times, Mr.
Edison said:
"If the currency is issued, $30,000,000, for financ
ing the finishing construction of Muscle Shoals work,
it will be the proper thing to do. Once the currency
method is tried in raising money for public improve
ments, the country will never go back to the bond
method.
"Make it perfectly clear that I am not advocating
doing away with banks and banking. Banks are a
mighty good thing. They are essential to the com
merce of the country. It is the money broker, the
money profiteer, the private banker, that I oppose.
They gain their power through a fictitious and false
value given to gold. Gold is a relic of Julius Caesar
and interest is an invention of Satan.
"Gold is intrinsically of less utility than most
metals. The probable reason why it is retained as a
basis of money is that it is easy to control. And it
is the control of money that is the root of all evil.
"Gold and money are separate things, you see.
Gold is the trick mechanism by which you can con
trol money.
"Gold is not money until the people of the
United States, and other nations, put their stamp of
approval on it. It is not the gold that makes the dol
lar. It is the dollar that makes the gold. Take the
dollar out of the gold, and leave it merely yellow
metal, and it sinks in value. Gold is established by
law, just as silver was, when silver was demonetized,
by law, and gold could be disestablished, demonetized,
by law, just as silver was. When silver was demone
tized the former so-called dollar became worth about
fifty cents.
"There is a complete set of misleading slogans kept
on hand for outbreaks of common sense among the
people. The people are so ignorant of what they
think are the intricacies of the money system that
they are easily impressed by big words. There would
be new shrieks of "fiat money," and "paper money,"
and "greenbackism," and the rest of it—the same old
cries which the people have been shouted down from
the beginning.
"But maybe we have passed beyond the time
.when the thoughtful 2 per cent—you know, I
gather from my questionnaire that only 2 per cent
of the people think," and Mr. Edison smiled broadly
—maybe they can't shout down American thinkers
any longer. The only dynamite that works in this
country is the dynamite of a sound idea. I think we
are getting a sound idea on the money question. The
people have an intellect which tells them that some
thing is wrong, and that the wrong somehow centers
in money. They have an instinct also, which tells
00
them a proposal is made in their interest or against
them.
"Now, as to paper money so-called, every one
knows that paper money is the money of civilized
people. The higher you go in civilization the less
actual money you see. It is all bills and checks.
What are bills and checks? Mere promises and
orders. What are they based on? Principally on two
sources —human energy and productive earth. Hu
manity and the soil —these are the only real basis of
money.
"Don't allow them to confuse you with the cry of
'paper money.' The danger of paper money is pre
cisely the danger of gold—if you get too much it is
no good. They say we have all the gold of the world
now. Well, what good does it do us? When America
gets all the chips in a game the game stops. We
would be better off if we had less gold. Indeed, we
are trying to get rid of our gold to start something
going. But the trade machine is at present jammed.
Too much paper money operates the same way. There
is just one rule for money, and that is to have enough
to carry all the legitimate trade that is waiting to
move. Too little or too much are both bad. But
enough to move trade, enough to prevent stagnation
on the one hand and not enough to permit speculation
on the other hand, is the proper ratio."
"Then you see no difference between currency and
government bonds?" Mr. Edison was asked.
"Yes, there is a difference, but it is neither the
likeness nor the difference that will determine the
matter ; the attack will be directed against thinking of
bonds and currency together and comparing them. If
people ever get to thinking of bonds and bills at the
same time, the game is up."
WHAT HENRY FORD SAYS
In speaking of "The shortcomings of our present
money system," Henry Ford said in an interview
with an Associated Press agent on November 24,
that:
"Two things have helped to bring the present
slow-down on. One thing was the uncertainty of
business regarding political interference, but Congress
is taking care of that. The other was the stock mar
ket fluctuations, which has an effect on the state of
mind of the American businessman. Money too long
has been a "principal commodity of commerce."
"Money," he said, "has become a business in itself
instead of an adjunct to business. Money is not
wealth ; wealth is what money buys. But that has
been turned upside down. The present system has
got us twisted into producing things to buy dollars
with, when what we need is a money system that will
produce dollars to buy goods with. Under the present
system the tail wags the dog. Money is just part of
society's transportation system for moving goods from
man to man; it breaks down so often that it is time
our financial engineers developed a better model."
"The present money system as exemplified by
those who manipulate it for profit," Ford said, "is
entirely out of date, and is in large measure respon
sible for recurring business recessions. It is a system
that seeks to control labor; wants to control Govern
ment, finances, food, industry and even the schools.
It manifests an avariciousness that would control
:verything."
"Here is a nation that might be the richest nation
in the world when actually we haven't enough of any
thing, because there is not enough production. The
need is here; the ability to produce is here; the stop
page is in the system that puts profits before produc
tion—and that is the money system."
"The solution," Ford said, "lies in teaching the
coming generation the real purpose of money and an
understanding of a system that may have been ade
quate for society's needs many years ago, but no
longer meets its requirements today."
"Honest financiers," Ford went on, "have done
a good job of making the present system work as
well as it has, but there will be a new race of 'finan
cial engineers' coming along whose pride will be the
social efficiency of the system, rather than its profit-
making possibilities. Their efforts, however, may be
hindered unless there is a more general understanding
of the present system."
ROOSEVELT ON MONEY
"The issuance and control of the medium of
exchange which we call money is a high pre
rogative of the government."
—Franklin D. Roosevelt,
To Congress, January 15, 1934
93
CONDITIONS BORN OF THE
IMPERFECTIONS OF OUR MONEY SYSTEM
Were I to call your attention here to the awful
conditions forced upon our people by the manipulation
and control of money, you would probably call me
a pessimist, and say, "I don't believe it." So, I am
going to call your attention only to such conditions
as seen by our great President Franklin D. Roosevelt,
who said in his report to the people on the condition
of our common country as of January 20th, 1937 :
"I see a great nation, upon a great continent,
blessed with great wealth of natural resources.
"I see a Unitad States which can demonstrate
that, under democratic methods of government, na
tional wealth can be translated into spreading volume
of human comforts hitherto unknown —and the
lowest standard of living can be raised far above the
level of mere existence.
"But here is the challenge to our democracy:
"In this nation I see millions of its citizens—a
substantial part of its whole population —who at this
very moment are denied the greater part of what the
very lowest standards of today call the necessities of
life.
"I see millions of families trying to live on in
comes so meagre that the pall of family disaster
hangs over them day by day.
"I see millions whose daily lives in city and on
farms continue under conditions labeled indecent by
94
a so-called polite society half a century ago.
"I see millions denied education, recreation and
the opportunity to better their lot and the lot of
their children.
"I see millions lacking the means to buy the pro
ducts of farm and factory and by their poverty
denying work and productivity to many other mil
lions.
"If I know aught of the spirit and purpose of
our nation, we will not listen to comfort, opportunism
and timidity. We will carry on.
"Government is competent when all who compose
it work as trustees for the whole people. It can make
.constant progress when it keeps abreast of all the
facts .
"If I know aught of the will of our people, they
will demand that these conditions of effective govern
ment shall be created and maintained."
Now, good people, I have called your attention
to what America's sanest minds have thought
and said about money. Will you not pause to con
sider the logic and reason of their argument? Or are
you going to ignore them and remain the ignorant
blind fools your so-called "privileged few" consider
you? Are you going to remain —as they want you to
—the victims of your money-mad-clan and their
devil's money system? Are YOU of America's under
privileged millions, satisfied to spend the best years
of your lives creating new wealth for an unappre-
ciating master class who throw you back but the
crumbs from their tables—a mere existence? Are you
satisfied with the humiliation of begging a few of the
necessities of life at the charitable institutions they
M
have prepared for you? Are you satisfied to see your
wives and children being made slaves of the masters
for the price of existence? Are you satisfied to re
main the modern wage-slaves of this Era of Capital
ism—this man-made Hell, with its murderous wars,
its taxes and graft, its unemployment and poverty?
Do you not think it is about time that we, the
people, wake up and, demand of our ruling class—our
servants at the nations Capital, that they quit playing
into the hands of the Financial Vampires of the
banker clan with bond issue after bond issue until we
have come to the very verge of bankruptcy, and are
obliged to tax the very shirts on our backs to pay the
interest. We could have been saved this burden of
debt, had our representatives issued these bonds in
currency form, redeemable at say, 5 per cent per
annum, or what we must now pay to redeem them
from the vampires of our banker clan. In this way
the interest could have been made to cancel the
principal.
Now, I know, good people of the underprivileged
millions, that you have been taught to believe by the
imps of our devil's money system that if bonds were
issued in currency form, they would soon drop to
less than a wartime German mark. Don't believe it.
Our bonds will be worth more if anything in the
form of U. S. Certificates than they are now worth
in the form of Federal Reserve Bank Certificates. It
was the banker clan in Germany and not the gov
ernment that reduced the value of the mark to rob
the people of the fruits of their toil.
I hold that it is CRIMINAL STUPIDITY on
the part of our ruling class, to borrow money from
96
private bankers on bond issues. Especially when they
haven't got the money to lend us—not even currency
paper money, until we print it for them—why not
print for ourselves? Are our bonds not as good se
curity for us—our people, as they are for the pri
vate bankers?
I am telling you here, good people of America, it
is our ruling class—those we hire to manage our
Government who are responsible for excessive wealth
among the ruling classes, and dire poverty among
the masses of our people. THINK, MEN! THINK!
Can we call ourselves a civilized and intelligent
people and continue to tolerate periodical "depres
sions" engineered by our banker clan—the imps of
our devil's money system, who get it in their heads
every so often that there is too much money in cir
culation. That the people are getting too prosperous.
The farmers are getting too much for their produce,
that there are too many small banks opening up to
infringe on their monopoly of the banking business.
They at once "deflate" the currency, by withdrawing
it from circulation. By calling in their loans as they
fall due; and refusing to "refinance." And, quite
often, by refusing to allow depositors to withdraw
more than small portions of their deposits or savings
from their banks. By such practice —which is the es
tablished method of conducting their game of high
finance —the people are again made to feel the curse
of poverty.
After all, good people of the common herd, does
it not show a lack of intelligence on our part as
sovereign citizens of what we love to boast about as
the greatest and richest nation—the American re
97
public, to allow such serious defects to remain in
its economic structure ? *Ifc it not true then, that if
these economic defects are allowed to remain in the
structure of our government, it will be because of
the ignorance of those blind fools among the masses
of our people who refuse to lend their assistance to
the building of the American Army for the Abolition
of Poverty? The greatest humanitarian movement for
Economic Reform and Social Justice since the world
began. The sublimest and noblest cause since Jesus
preached "Good Will To Men." THINK, MEN!
THINK!
* Should read : Is it not true then, etc.
THE CURE FOR ALL THE ECONOMIC ILLS
WITHIN THE STRUCTURE OF OUR
GOVERNMENT
The cure for all the economic ills or defects
within the structure of our government can be ac
complished by simple, easy steps. Our "Declaration
of Independence" says: "that all men are created
equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with
certain inalienable rights, that among these are Life,
Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness. That to secure
these rights, Governments are instituted among men,
deriving their just powers from the consent of tht
governed, that whenever any form of Government
becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of
the people to alter or to abolish it and to institute new
Government, laying its foundations on such principles
and organizing its powers in such form as to them
shall seem most likely to effect their Safety and
Happiness."
To accomplish these ends, by peaceful, yet force
ful methods —we must first arouse the people.
"A people once aroused becomes an irresisti
ble force before which no Government can
long withstand." —Franklin D. Roosevelt.
We are now organizing the American Army for
the Abolition of Poverty—in America. In every
State, in every County, in every City and Town
throughout the nation. Our purpose is to awaken the
people to the dangers that beset them by the subver
99
sive forces who would reduce our people to "goose-
stepping slaves" of Nazi or Fascist Dictators. To
educate and teach our underprivileged millions —"ill
fed, ill clothed, ill housed," living on "nick-knacks
and scarcities" because of the greed of our money-
mad-clan, in a land that can and does produce more
than enough for all to partake in abundance. That as
members of our Army, they may make forceful de
mands upon their representatives at Washington, to
give them the "Power to Consume" —which is now
denied them because of our devil's money system,
the money system of the "privileged few," the "profit-
takers" —the vampires of the nation. We must have
a different money system for use within the nation
to save our country from bankruptcy or fascism. And
that "different money system" is Vezino's Non-
Hoardable, Foolproof Money System —a National Do
mestic Currency, in check book form, as sponsored
by the American Army for the Abolition of Poverty
—for all citizens of our country,
a~fc
least, that our
people here in America may have the POWER TO
CONSUME what they want of the things their
country CAN and DOES produce.
100
WHAT WE DEMAND OF OUR RULING CLASS
First, we demand that Congress quit borrowing
money on bond issues, and exercise its Constitutional
Right "To coin money and regulate the value thereof;
and of foreign coin."
Second, we demand that Congress issue to all
citizens of working age numbered Identification
Cards. And to all foreign sojourners, tourists, etc.,
cards of a different color—GREEN—to readily dis
tinguish them from citizens.
Third, we demand that Congress issue a National
Domestic Currency for use only in our country and
its possessions, and of NO VALUE in foreign
countries. That this currency be backed by the
WEALTH OF THE NATION AND THE CRE
DIT OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
Fourth, we demand that this National Domestic
Currency be issued only in check book form, and
spendable only by the individual to whom issued by
the Government.
Fifth, we demand that this National Domestic
Currency be supplied to all citizens of working age
free of cost—a small charge may be made for first
allotment only, to cover costs—at their nearest
Postal Savings or Government bank where their
number has been filed.
Sixth, we demand that the face of this National
Domestic Currency read as follows:
101
.JHIIIHIIiriIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiniIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiIIiNIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiIIIIIIIIII%
1 National J£om«tttc Current? I
I of H* |
I ©mteo &tate* of America
= s
I Guaranteed by the Wealth of the Nation and the |
I Credit of the American People. Legal Tender |
i for all Debts in United States of America i
| and Possessions. Of NO VALUE in |
| Foreign Countries. For use only by =
| Indivi'dual to whom issued. 1
1 Issued to No _ Alt _ I
| This day of _ Void after I
| Paid to No For (Services/Goods)^ cents*.... |
| Signature Address _ 5
?IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIB?
The back of these certificates shall read as
follows :
NOTICE! Persons receiving this Currency in pay
ment for no matter what, shall deposit same with the
Government when or before applying for more of
this currency for personal use.
WARNING! The use of this certificate as money by
other than party to whom issued is unlawful and
punishable by IMPRISONMENT.
Seventh, we demand that all citizens, from Presi
dent to laborer be paid with National Domestic Cur
rency.
That all non-citizens possessing Green Identifica
tion Cards, when paid with National Domestic Cur
rency may exchange same for U. S. Silver certificates
or coin, at Postal Savings or Government bank,
where they will be given to understand, that the law
102
requires them to be careful to take the identification
number of all persons to whom they pay or give any
of this U. S. money together with the amount paid—
on blanks furnished for that purpose, that the
Government may again "pick it up" and withdraw
from circulation for use in its new legitimate field.
Eighth, we demand that all debts, including
promissory notes and mortgages owed by our people,
shall be payable in full with National Domestic Cur
rency. That our people may be forever free from the
worry of debt and the curse of poverty.That they
may know the joy of having money with which to
pay for what they want. That they may no longer
have to humiliate themselves begging for credit. That
they may know the joy of being able to CONSUME
WHAT THEY WANT OF THE THINGS
THEIR COUNTRY CAN AND DOES PRODUCE.
Ninth, we demand that our Government continue
the use of our present "currency and coin" with "gold
and silver" as its base, but wholly issued and con
trolled as provided by the Constitution of our
country which gives to Congress the sole power "To
coin money and regulate the value thereof; and of
foreign coin." That our government continue the
use of this money in its dealings with foreigners and
foreign countries as now. And,
We further demand that our Government appoint
Receiverships for all insurance companies and savings
institutions to see that the policy holders and depos
itors get back a fair share of their savings. As such
103
institutons will at once become obsolete as the new
era of civilization dawns upon the world—our part
of it. And
We further demand that all foreigners coming
to our country to seek a livelihood, aside from those
in the diplomatic service, shall after one year, be made
to either take steps to become citizens or show cause
why they should not be deported.
104
WHAT THIS NATIONAL DOMESTIC
CURRENCY WILL DO FOR US
Listen, good people of America, we all know—
«xcept the ignorant blind fools among us who will
not look or listen—that millions of honest, industrious,
worthy people in this land of boasted opportunity
are poorly fed, poorly clothed, poorly housed. Presi
dent Roosevelt has said that one third of our popula
tion, forty millions, are under-nourished. Thousands
die every year from these causes. Four out of every
five Americans will die penniless after a lifetime of
toil.
We all recognize these facts! And if we stop to
think we know, too, that there is no excuse for this
hell of poverty in America. But Capitalism, with its
money-mad clan and their devil's money system, and
blind, insatiable greed for PROFITS, is alone res
ponsible for this blighting scourge, this damnable
curse of poverty that crushes and deforms the race.
Now that a cure has been found, for all this
misery and suffering among our people, why not use
it? The power to do this rests wholly with you who
suffer most. YOU of the under-privileged millions,
will YOU not help to spread the Gospel of a New
Era of Civilization? Will you not help us to edu
cate and enlighten, to organize and enroll in the
American Army for the Abolition of Poverty, our
hunger— tortured million? That by sheer force of
numbers, we may brush our oppressors aside, and
105
with a National Domestic Currency of Plenty, re
build our country into a modern paradise —a veritable
"Kingdom of Heaven on earth," where all will be
forever free from the deadly blight of poverty. Free
to partake of abundance to our heart's content.
But what else will this National Domestic Cur
rency do for us? It will free us from TAXES and
GRAFT, and all CRIME for monetary gain.
It will automatically give us PRODUCTION FOR
USE, without disturbing "Private Ownership."
It will put an end to the fight for a living wage,
now being carried on by trade and industrial unions
and C.I.O's, to save themselves and families from
the curse of poverty.
It will save industry from the menace of "strikes"
and "lockouts" and industrial warfare, which is fast
driving the nation into fascism.
It will forever put an end to "unemployment,
hunger and want."
It will call into requisition all labor-savings
machinery—now held in disuse, because of the
ignorance of those blind fools.
It will shorten the hours of labor to six hours a
day, and a five day week.
It will give all workers four months vacation a
year with all the cash they want to spend! —including a
free trip around the world with all expenses paid,
and plenty of spending money besides.
It will give America—without a bond issue or
a penny of tax from her citizens, the greatest navy
106
ki the world, equal to the combined navies of all the
other nations in the world. We will then be able
to put down banditry of the nations single-handed.
It will make America the wealthiest, most highly
civilized and powerful nation on the globe.
It will depopulate our penitentiaries, and do away
with our charitable institutions, and cause a great
saving in our Department of Justice.
It will simplify our whole system of economics
and give us a Government of the people, by the
people, and for the people—a Democracy at the acme
of its perfection.
107
TO ATTAIN RESULTS LET US UNITE
That a New Era of Civilization is dawning upon
the world no intelligent person will deny. The Era
of Capitalism, as we know it today, is passing be
cause it has become so corrupted by the greed of
its Money-Mad-Clan and their devil's money system
that it is fast becoming intolerable to the masses
not only here in America, but in all lands of our
good earth where the growing intelligence of the
people is causing them to THINK! And thinking
men and women are the builders of Civilization;
and the kind of civilization depends upon the virtue
of the thoughts which they choose and encourage;
for mind is the master-weaver, both of the inner
garment of character and the outer garment of cir
cumstance.
"Mind is the Master-power that moulds and makes,
And Man is Mind, and evermore he takes the
tool of Thought,
And, shaping what he wills,
Brings forth a thousand joys, a thousand ills:—
He thinks in secret, and it comes to pass;
Environment is but his looking-glass."
—James Allen.
The human Will, the God-within, that unseen-
force will carry you to any desired goal; for when
the spirit rises and commands, 'tis said the gods are
ready to obey. Therefore, ere our alloted years on
this earth has ebbed away, let us join the American
Armv For The Abolition of Poverty; and thus
109
UNITED! become an IRESISTIBLE FORCE be
fore which our ruling-class, be they democrats or
dictators, must bow to our Will and commands.
Thus, will we win THE POWER TO CONSUME
WHAT WE WANT OF THE THINGS GOD
INTENDED ALL SHOULD SHARE; not merely
a "pivileged few." Show me a better way to attain
this result, and I will be with you.
Now my fellow-humans, since we are all agreed
that this is what we want—the POWER TO CON
SUME! TO RID OURSELVES OF SCARCITY!
AND WANT! But because of the ignorance of
those blind-fools among us, we don't seem to be
able to agree as to the best method of obtaining
WHAT WE WANT. Under these circumstances,
let us unite our various groups in the American
Army For The Abolition of Poverty, and give our
united efforts and votes to any and all economic
theories which appear to have the best chance of
being tested out. It will be a step toward our goal.
Some among us think that an improvement in
our tax system will cure poverty; and I have myself
invented a new system of taxation with that purpose
in view. But that was before I had finished my
research in the wondrous palace of the mind —
God's great store-house of wisdom, and got "money-
wise." But there are still others among us who
are believers in Silvio Gesell's Free Economy. The
principles of which are "Freed Land and Demur
rage Money." All over the world you will find
groups among the masses of the people exclaiming:
"I want to see this system of Free Economy tried
NOW that I may enjoy its benefits while I live."
110
Can we get these Groups here in America to join
the American Army for the Abolition of Poverty?
THINK! MEN, THINK! Here in America we
have too, many advocates of the Douglas Social
Credit System of "Stamp Script." Can we get
these to unite with us in the American Army for
the Abolition of Poverty? Then we have those
who advocate "Old-Age Pensions" as a cure for
Unemployment Scarcity and Want—the curse of
poverty. I myself am a member of one of these
groups, and know that it would further their cause
and greatly increase their influence by becoming
members of the American Army for the Abolition
of Poverty. "UNITED WE STAND, DIVIDED
WE FALL." Get Wise. Remember that while we
are divided into little groups we are looked upon
as harmless calamity-howlers. And the corrup
tion of our defective economic system continues to
enrich the few and impoverish the many.
While each nation has its particular kind of
money; but always borrowed from private bankers
upon Government Bonds which the people are taxed
to redeem over a period of years which returns to
the bankers usually double the amount loaned. Here
in America, the Government prints both the bonds
and the currency they borrow from the bankers.
Sounds silly, don't it? Well, it is just as silly as
it sounds. And it is so, because of the ignorance
of those blind- fools. Guess who they are? They
are responsible for the ignorance, the poverty, the
injustice and crime! The needless suffering, the
vice, the cruelty, the millions who know but Scarcity,
Hunger and Want, because of the greed of our
ill
Money-Mad-Oan and their devil's money system.
Won't YOU join the American Army for the
Abolition of Poverty, and help change these things,
to the things that should be in the World God gave
to men?
112
THE UNEQUAL REWARDS OF CAPITALISM
I am telling you here, good people of the nations,
that great wealth and dire poverty among the peo
ple of our so-called civilized nations are born of the
"unequal rewards" which Capitalism deals out to the
actors who play their parts according to its rules
in national economics.
"All the World's a stage, and Men and Women
merely players."—Shakespeare.
And so, upon the World's great stage in the
Drama of Life, each one must play in turn the part
assigned to us to the best of our ability —for the
good of the whole. Some have leading roles by
fate assigned to them, while others the meagre parts
do play. And as each actor makes his exit from
the stage ; we see the lowly "grave-digger" play his
part; for God has planned it so.
And since we all must needs play our part to
make the play complete, Where in God's name, is
the justice of rewarding one with "riches" and the
other—the many—with the "curse of poverty?"
Why should only a "privileged few" be allowed to
partake of abundance, while the "under-privileged
many" must get their subsistance from the table of
scarcity? The answer is: Because of the ignorance
of those blind-fools who believe in the "unequal re
wards" of Capitalism, and wish to continue the prac
tice. And as long as we continue the practice of
"unequal rewards" we will have millionaires and
113
paupers with us in dangerous quantities.
In New York City, largest center of population
in America, one person out of six is being supported
by public charity, because of our devil's money sys
tem and the unequal rewards of Capitalism. In
California, richest section of the United States, one
person in every five is receiving government relief
because of our devil's money system and the unequal
rewards of Capitalism. Believe it when I tell you
that the "Unequal rewards" of Capitalism has already
driven so many into crime, that it is unsafe to walk
even a few blocks in some of our cities without a
bodyguard, lest we be kidnapped and held for ran
som. And these conditions will continue to grow
worse as long as men continue to believe in the
"unequal rewards" of Capitalism.
While each nation has its own money system
under Capitalism, but always subject to the manip
ulations of "private bankers" generally known as
the "International Bankers," by some considered the
backbone of Capitalism and by others to be the
greatest set of scoundrels that ever tread the earth.
They are blamed for bringing about periods of busi
ness stagnation and national depressions, resulting
always in the enrichment of themselves while im
poverishing both the nation and the people. It was
during one of these periods of business stagnation—
that Silvio Gesell, an economist and thinker, gave to
the world a workable system of "Stamp Script"
known today as "Social Credit" money or "Free
Economy" now being advocated in many lands for
use as domestic money during great emergencies
where banker's money has been withdrawn from
circulation. For this I take my hat off to Silvio
Gesell. But my purpose here is to give you a few
reasons why a National Domestic Currency — in
check-book form, non-hoardable and fool-proof in
every particular, the money of the coming New Era
of Civilization as advocated by this writer, is far
superior in every way to Social Credit money or
Free Economy now being so enthusiastically advo
cated in many lands.
A Non-Hoardable National Domestic Currency
is superior because it requires no stamps or tax of
any kind for its redemption.
It is superior because it is backed by the wealth
of the nation and the credit of the American people.
It is superior because it puts an immediate end
to Capitalism's damnable profit system, and auto
matically gives us Production-for-use without dis
turbing private ownership.
It is superior because it does away with the
"unequal rewards" of Capitalism; thus giving all
the power to consume what they want of the things
their country can and does produce, not merely a
privileged few as it is today because of the unequal
rewards of Capitalism. I ask you who are still
selfish enough, and I might say devilish enough to
believe in the unequal rewards of Capitalism as
against this system of "equal rewards" offered by a
National Domestic Currency, to look about you and
see the needless poverty and crime it has wrought
in your own country. Look at Spain, where the
people were driven to revolution after being robbed
of their rightful share of the wealth they had pro
duced by the "unequal rewards" of Capitalism.
115
In the garden of democracy where the flowers
of economic liberty grow aplenty and abundance
for all is produced, We must get it out of our heads
that because one man sits in a swivel chair with a
pen in his hand, he is worth more in the production
of the nation's wealth, than the man who tills the
soil with pick and shovel. Both play the part fate
has assigned to them in the production of the
nation's wealth. Then why in the name of reason
and common sense should they not be allowed to
share equally in that wealth?
I am a believer in "equal rewards" to all who
give their best efforts and whole-hearted co-opera
tion in the upbuilding of our country, whether the
part they play be that of diplomat or common laborer.
In my philosophy each are entitled to THE POWER
TO CONSUME WHAT THEY WANT OF THE
THINGS THEIR COUNTRY CAN AND DOES
PRODUCE.
And it is also the belief of this writer that if
we can get all of the various groups now on the
battle-front as single units fighting Old General
Poverty and the Imps of our Money-Mad Clan, to
get together, unite , and form an all powerful allied
army for the abolition of poverty; that as a "voting-
unit" of sovereign citizens, whose voice would then
b« the nation's command. And thus united, these
various groups would then become that "irresistible
force" before which our Congressmen and other
Representatives at the nation's Capitol would Stop!
Look! and [Listen! If they desired to hold their
jobs as our representatives. And these groups
llfi
would no longer be looked upon as a lot of "Crack
pots" and harmless calamity-howlers.
The various groups referred to above, include
me Douglas Social-Credit Script, and the Gesellians
who want "Freed Land and Stamp Script"; Father
Coughlan's Social Justice group—fighting for an
improvement in our Money System; Upton Sinclair
and his End Poverty League ;The Utopian Society
of America, whose cry is for Production-for-Use ;
"Mankind United" with more than Eight-Million
members in the United States, and whose fight is
against the "International Bankers and their devil's
money system."
My National Domestic Currency, non-hoardable
and fool-proof in every particular, should satisfy
this group. And we have the millions of Dis-United
Organized Labor, including the Farmer groups.
To all of these groups I would say: As single fight
ing units, you will get nowhere but further into
the quicksands of poverty. Don't start a new poli
tical party. That too, will but waste your time
and money, and get you nowhere. As an efficiency
expert, a technologist and engineer, I would advise
you to forget that you are this or that, forget that
you are Catholic, Protestant, or Jew; forget your
petty prejudices and partyisms, and remember on
ly—that you are the victims of an UNJUST ECO
NOMIC SYSTEM which, if not changed, will re
duce you to "Goose-stepping-slaves" of a dictator —
and I don't mean "Maybe." You are the victims
of your money-mad clan and the "Profit System."
You are the victims of your "Banker-Clan and their
devil's money system." You are the victims of
117
your own ignorance and rpathy. Co-ordinate and
Co-operate! Join the American Army for the Abo
lition of Poverty! And make YOUR VOICE the
Nation's Command. And you will get YOUR
SHARE of the things that should be in the World
God gave to men. By the adoption and use of a
National Domestic Currency, as advocated by this
writer, you will get the POWER TO CONSUME
ALL YOU WANT OF THE THINGS YOUR
COUNTRY CAN AND DOES PRODUCE. You
will get PRODUCTION-FOR-USE ! WITHOUT
DISTURBING PRIVATE OWNERSHIP.
You will get a Pay-As-You-Go Money System
and be forever FREE from the worry of debt
thereafter. You will get a New Era of Civilization
WITHOUT Taxes, Graft, Unemployment, or Pov
erty. Remember—
"God helps those who help themselves."
Therefore, I am making this appeal to you of
the various groups of thinking men and women who
are spending your efforts trying to further some
particular idea or pet scheme for economic change;
which you believe to be the best method of ridding
yourselves of the curse of poverty and obtaining the
POWER TO CONSUME—Social Justice. To you
I would say: "Bring your pet theories of economic
reform for the betterment of your country and of
civilization in general, into the American Army for
the Abolition of Poverty. By so doing you will
help build that "irresistible force" which is to brush
aside all obstacles to the entrance of the New Era
of Civilization. A civilization WITHOUT Taxes,.
118
Graft, Unemployment, or Poverty. A veritable
"Kingdom of Heaven on Earth." To YOU who
pray in the churches and patiently await the coming
of God's kingdom. I appeal to you NOW ! To
come and help "chain the devil and throw him into
the bottomless pit," as the good book says he is to
"remain for a thousand years." "Thy will be done"
said Jesus. And "in His name" I plead for your
assistance NOW when the "Kingdom of Heaven
is at hand." Can we expect your assistance my fel
low Christians? Or are you going to line-up with
the devil and his imps, against this greatest human
itarian movement since the world began; against
this sublimest and noblest cause since Jesus preached
"Good Will To Men." Against the things that
Should Be, In The World God Gave To Men.
And now I ask you of the rank and file of the
A. F. of L. and C. I. O. to forget your petty dif
ferences in your hopeless struggle for a "living-
wage," and throw your united influence and force of
numbers into this great humanitarian movement —
the American Army for the Abolition of Poverty;
and thus make the struggle for a living-wage un
necessary. Take it from me, fellow-workers, it is
the shortest and easiest road out of this man-made
Hell. Surely you do not wish to continue to tread
the desert sands of "scarcity" getting farther and
farther into the quicksands of poverty? And surely
you are not such strong believers in the "unequal
rewards" of Capitalism and its "profit system" that
you wish to perpetuate that damnable system, and
continue making millionaires of the few, and pau
119
pers of the many? And you surely don't want to
wait—like your Italian and German fellow workers
—till you must choose between being shot or be
coming goose-stepping slaves of a dictator? Then
THINK! MEN, THINK!
And when you shall have thought it out in the
light of logic and reason, and if ye be neither devils,
nor cowards nor fools, you will come help build the
American Army for the Abolition of Poverty into
an irresistible force that will not only rid you of
the curse of poverty, but get you WHAT YOU
WANT, of the things your country CAN and
DOES produce. THINK! MEN, THINK!
i»
A NEW ERA OF CIVILIZATION
AND ITS MONETARY SYSTEM
That a New Era of Civilization is dawning upon
the world we must admit. It is to be an Era of
Co-operation and Production-for-Use under private
ownership. An Era of Civilization WITHOUT
Taxes, Graft, Unemployment or Poverty. An Era
of Civilization which is to bring about the Sisterhood
of Nations and the Brotherhood of Man. An Era
of True Democracy at the acme of its perfection,
where Social Justice, Liberty, Peace and Plenty
shall reign supreme. A government of the people,
by the People, and for the People.
Now it is my purpose here to tell you about the
Monetary system of this coming New Era of Civil
ization. It comes direct from God's great store
house of wisdom —the wondros palace of the Mind.
Non-hoardable and fool-proof in every particular;
far superior to any system of money yet devised
by the ingenuity of man. A National Domestic
Currency, in check-book form. Good only within
the nation and its territories or colonies, and of
NO value in foreign countries. Being a Pay-As-
You-Go Money system. It will free you from the
worry of "debt." For in the coming New Era of
Civilization there will be no such thing as debt.
Each citizen of working age is given a numbered
Identification Card, a duplicate of which, containing
121
your name, age, birth-date, place, nationality, occu
pation, earning capacity and such other information
as may be considered necessary by the Government,
will be deposited at your nearest Postal Savings
Department or Government Bank, where you will be
sworn to give your best efforts and whole-hearted
co-operation in your particular line of work or part
you play in the Drama of Life; until you shall have
passed the working-age of fifty years.
Now having pledged your best efforts and whole
hearted co-operation to the economic welfare and
prosperity of your country to the best of your ability
during your working years. In return for which,
you will be given an UNLIMITED checking account
with your government. In other words you will
be given a check-book of National Domestic Currency
for personal use, that you may never know poverty
again. The face of these currency-checks will read
as follows:
£IIIIiIIIIi iiiiiiiimiiimiiimiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiIIIImiiiiiiimiiiiiiimiiiiimiiiIIiiIIiH urn m II imimi*
1 Rational ©osnegtic Currency
| t&ititeb ^tatea of America j
I Guaranteed by the Wealth of the Nation and the |
| Credit of the American People. Legal Tender |
= for all Debts in United States of America =
= and Possessions. Of NO VALUE in 1
I Foreign Countries. For use only by |
I Individual to 'whom issued. =
| Issued to No At _ =
5 This day of Void after. |
| Paid to No For (Services/Goods) $ cents.... I
| Signature — Address |
' mimiiiiIIiiiiiiIIi iiiiiiiiiiiimimiimiiiIIIi iiIIiiiiiiiiiiIIi iiimiiIuiiiIiIIIIMiiIIF.
122
When applying for more of this "check-book
currency" you will be asked to turn-in the "stubs"
of the one you have just used up, and such of the
unused checks or currency you may have left. This,
to see that you don't do any hoarding. This being
a fool-proof system in every particular.
CONCLUSION
Now in closing, let me write upon your memory
in UNFORGETABLE WORDS : that this National
Domestic Currency is issued by your Government
against the Wealth of the Nation and the Credit of
the American people.
That it is Full Legal Tender in the United
States and its territories; and of NO VALUE in
foreign countries.
That we are to continue to use our present money
—gold and silver—in our dealings with foreigners
and for foreign -exchange as now.
That this National Domestic Currency is spend
able only by the individual to whom issued by the
Government.
That it is NON-HOARDABLE and MUST be
returned to the Government by those receiving it in
exchange for service or other values as a means of
showing their co-operation in the welfare of our
people and the progress of our civilization.
That under this new National Domestic Money
System, all business is to continue as now—under
PRIVATE OWNERSHIP.
133
That workers may be hired and fired as now.
That no individual of working age, who is physi
cally fit, will be allowed to loaf, spend his time in
idleness, unless he can show that he has sufficient of
the Old Money (our present money) to pay his way.
That all individuals or corporations paying out
Old Money or money other than our National Do
mestic Currency, in any amount, MUST take the
identification number of those to whom paid, and
turn this in to the Government together with the
amount paid, that the Government may pick it up and
withdraw from circulation for use in its new legi
timate field.
That this National Domestic Currency is not
available to sojourners or to those visiting in our
country. But all such individuals will be given tem
porary Green numbered identification cards—which
would distinguish them from our Slackers, who are
to be given Blue Cards with the word "SLACKER"
printed across the face thereof, and the words: "Pay
not more than THREE DOLLARS per day."
That if sojourners working in our country do not
become citizens within a reasonable time, they may be
sent back to their home land.
That it is against the law to support an able
bodied worker in idleness, under the penalty of hav
ing your cash supply cut off.
That this National Domestic Money is to be
issued in check book form only. That the checks
are numbered consecutively from 1 to 100. By this
124
the Government will know when you are out of
funds, and make note of same on their records.
That this National Domestic Money System is far
superior to any system of demurrage money —money
requiring tax-stamp to be placed upon it weekly or
monthly to keep it from deteriorating in value; such
money, although being advocated by Free Economy
Clubs in many lands, has proved itself to be NON-
FOOLPROOF! It was tried out as you will per
haps remember in Alberta, Canada. It failed there
because it was NOT A FOOLPROOF MONEY
SYSTEM. It was killed in circulation by the money-
mad-clan. This could not happen with my Non-Cir
culating, Non-Hoardable, Non-Taxable, Unlimited,
Individual, National Domestic Currency, Foolproof
in every particular under either public or private own
ership.
That its adoption and use will mean a New Era
of Civilization and automatically give us Production
For Use.
It will mean the end of Graft and corporate
thievery, the end of USURY with its impoverishing
effects.
It will mean the end of the "Stick-up" gan.c and
all Crime for monetary gain.
It will mean an immediate and lasting PROS
PERITY that will transform our country into a
modern paradise surpassing the wildest dreams of
such men as Plato, Marx, Bellamy or Lenin. I can
see it coming in the future—not very far away. A
125
Nation without taxes ! Without graft ! Without unem
ployment!! Without poverty! And all this will mean
DEMOCRACY at the acme of its prefection.
If you would play upon the World's great stage,
in the play of Life, but the nobler parts, join the
American Army for the Abolition of Poverty and
lend us your wholehearted co-operation in this
greatest humanitarian movement for Economic Re
form and Social Justice since the world began—the
sublimest and noblest cause since Jesus preached
"Good Will to Men" And I might add in closing that
possession of one of these books will assure you a
life membership in the American Army for the Abo
lition of Poverty. Get your name on our Roll of
Honor.
I thank for your kind attention.
—The Author
126
