{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__sturge-whiting___mystery_of_versailles.pdf","mytitle":"Mystery Of Versailles","mylang":"de"}
THE MYSTERY
OF VERSAILLES
A \C om plete Solution
By
J. R. STU R G E -W H IT IN G
RIDER & CO.
Paternoster House, Paternoster Row
London, E.C.4
TSS NEW YO&K
PUBLIC LMJIUIiF
969102A
AST02, LENOX AND
TILDitN FOUNDATIONS
U 193S L
m
M l
** ^ 2 ^
To those of you who have encouraged me as much
in fruitless endeavour as in m y modest triumphs, to
those before whom I need assume no role, adopt no
pose, and who will at once recognise their inclusion
herein, this book is dedicated.— J.R.S.W.
FOREWORD
T h e solving of the Versailles puzzle was long
overdue, and psychical researchers are indebted
to Mr. Sturge-Whiting for devoting so much
time and trouble to its elucidation. He will
not be thanked for his pains. An Adventure, the
record of the Trianon visit, is one of the classics
of psychic literature, and even the most sceptical
student of the alleged miraculous has been almost
forced to accept a paranormal explanation of the
“ visions” , failing a rational solution to the
mystery. Well, here it is. The more credulous
will not accept Mr. Sturge-Whiting’s answer to
the Versailles legend, and shouts of “ Iconoclast !”
will be raised. So many people prefer the “ bunk”
to the “ debunk” ! The fact that An Adventure has
stood its ground for nearly thirty years without
being seriously attacked is proof of how strong
a prima facie case was made out for the “ phen­
omena” . It is also proof of what an excellent
piece of work Mr. Sturge-Whiting has accom­
plished.
The analysis of the occurrences as recorded in
An Adventure has not been easy, as I know from
experience. In the winter of 1934 I was in Paris
and made a similar attempt, but found I could
not devote the necessary leisure to so important
a task. Dr. G. E. M. Joad and I, map in hand,
vii
Vlll FOREWORD
followed the paths traversed by Miss Jourdain
and Miss Moberly, hoping to glean some new
information, or make some discovery that would
throw light on the mystery ; but we realised
that much time would have to be spent in the
neighbourhood of the Trianon, and I abandoned
the idea. This was fortunate, because Mr.
Sturge-Whiting has now done the job so effect­
ively.
Why has the Versailles mystery persisted for so
long ? Only because o f the academic standing of
the two ladies who presented it to a credulous
world. When, in 1911, I read the history of the
case, I anticipated that it would become a major
problem for psychists solely on account of this
fact. Quite rightly, M r. Sturge-W hiting has not
impugned the good faith o f the authors of An
Adventure. But he has proved that they wrongly
interpreted what they saw and heard on that
memorable visit to the Petit Trianon. He has
also proved that faulty perception, lapses of
memory, an irresistible subconscious urge to
accept a supernormal explanation o f an occur­
rence when a normal one was available, plus a
certain credulity, are the real reasons why we
ever heard o f the “ adventure” at all. A nd if the
two adventurers had devoted m ore time in trying
to rationalise what they saw instead o f spending
ten years seeking evidence to support their belief
in a miracle, I should not now be writing this
Foreword.
To sum up, the impartial reader who has
FOREWORD IX
carefully studied the arguments both for and
against the Versailles story is faced with two
alternatives : he can either believe that large
blocks o f personal experience were displaced
from their proper positions in Tim e or that the
two ladies were the victims o f a self-deceptive
phenomenon. I have no doubt about w hat his
choice will be.
H a r r y P r i c e .
ig , Berkeley Street,
Mayfair, W .i
CONTENTS
CBAPTKK P A G !
FOREWORD . . . . . vii
PREFACE . . . . . XV
I. THE STORY AS WE HAVE IT . . 21
n. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS . . 3 1
m . THE I9OI STATEMENTS . . . 38
IV. PSYCHOLOGICAL CONSIDERATIONS . 48
V. ACTIVE RESEARCH . . . - 5 7
VI. THE PLOUGH . . . . 68
Vn. THE GUARDS . . . . 75
V n i. THE KIOSK . . . . . 83
IX. TH E RUNNING MAN . . . 9 1
X . TH E MAN B Y TH E KIOSK . . 102
XI. TH E ISOLATED R O CK . . * 1 0 9
XH. TH E L A D Y . . . . . I I 5
XHI. TH E JEU D E BAGU E . . - 1 2 5
X IV. TH E T W O LABOURERS W ITH A C A R T 13 5
x v . a q u e e n ’s m e m o r y . . . 1 4 6
X V I. APPEN D ICES— CONCLUSION . . 15 3
x i
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
Miss Jourdain’s “vanished” wood, showing
thick undergrowth . . frontispiece
The “Rocher Bridge” 33
The open gates leading to the theatre court 53
The closed gates leading to the gardener’s
compound . . . . . 73
The Chapel Door (closed since about 1850),
from which the “ Chapel Man” was
alleged to have appeared in 1901,
“ banging the door behind him” , . 89
The Belvedere or Temple of Music . . 113
Concealedwater tank hidden in an inaccessible
position at the top of the artificial
“Rocher” for the purpose of providing
“ thread-like cascades” and miniature
mountain streams . . . . 129
The Petit Trianon from the English garden
xiii
145
P R E FA C E
“ The visions of the two authoresses of An Adventure will
remain a classic case for all time on account ofits production
of questions which have never had to be discussed before
or since.”— Morning Post.
“ We record these things in order that they may
be considered whenever the time shall come when
a full explanation may become possible.” Thus
Miss Moberly at the end of the preface to An
Adventure.
It might well be considered that on this note
of simple sincerity the very beautiful story she
tells should be left in peace. A few months ago
I had hoped to write differently, but an intensive
study of the Trianon mystery has now rendered
this impossible. Faced with The Adventure in
the course of a sceptical study of recent philo­
sophies, I found myselfcompelled either to dismiss
it or recast the greater part of my almanac of
slow progress. As it stands, Miss Moberly’s story
is unique, and, like St. Paul, I have only too
recently been counted in the forefront of its
ardent protagonists— which, by virtue of prece­
dent in such cases, may account for the sincerity
of my present attitude. For to me the epic story
has assumed the colour of pathetic illusion*
though never for one moment have I questioned
the author’s integrity.
XV
XVI PREFACE
It demanded more courage than I care to
admit before the considerable edifice involving
the patient work of half a lifetime could be
dismissed as illusionary, and my conviction has
made me wonder how often, and in how many
directions, can one be blinded to the truth
through reverence either for the established
order or the weight of authority as represented
by its worthy upholders.
In view of the transparent and unassailable
honesty of the authors, their tireless and scholarly
construction of the case, and the unique support
of apparent confirmation which has been built
up, the intellectual revolt against its rejection has
been formidable indeed.
Had Miss Moberly been still living, and could
she read what follows, it is possible that she would
have dismissed it with the same remark as
appears in her handwriting at the foot of a press-
cutting in the Bodleian Library, amongst her
carefully arranged original documents, “ Not
worth answering” — and it would seem certain
that, in her view, at the time of the story’s first
publication nothing less than a supernatural
explanation of The Adventure would have
caused her the slightest interest. Both she and
Miss Jourdain had built for themselves a case so
impregnable as to be, for them, beyond all
question, and in attempting to shatter it I am
fully aware of the implications which might
attach to the principles involved. Indeed, this
aspect of the case has caused me considerable
misgiving. For if by a process of reasoning and
a study of the psychological issues involved one
can damage an edifice of such quality, what
indeed is safe ?
- It happened that at the time of my recent work
in this field I had been reading Frank Morison’s
Who Moved the Stone ? It was not long before I
entertained a strong suspicion that this book and
An Adventure had much in common— although
dealing with widely different subjects— both
pursuing a course strangely alike in logical
progress and synthetic construction.
One could, for instance, detach paragraphs
from each, almost identical in structure and
purpose, whilst the similarity in general appeal
on innumerable points is at times most noticeable.
Consider these two paragraphs :
“I picture him running out and calling to
them as they retreated, ‘Don’t be frightened,
you seek Iw S fc. He is not here,
behold 1 The placeTwhere they laid him !’ ”
And this :
“ We learned that there was a tradition that
in October 1789 a messenger was sent to
Trianon to warn the Queen of the approach
of the mob from Paris. . . . Suddenly we
heard a man running behind us. He shouted,
‘Mesdames ! Mesdames V 99
Both books seek to support a similar if widely
B
PREFACE Xvil
eJ h t -
XV1
1
1
separated theme, and both might therefore
submit to parallel treatment at the hands of a
sceptical critic. All this renders my task less
attractive, if none the less necessary.
It is with some hesitation that I, a layman,
feel justified in approaching a subject of this
nature, so essentially a field for experts; though
on reflection it would appear that there are few
fields more favourable to the still small voice of
uninformed opinion than that of metaphysical
truth, since in no other domain does one find
such flat contradiction amongst the giants, nor so
wide a gulf between the standpoints they occupy.
In considering phenomena of occult import I
am invariably reminded of the old proverb
“the exception proves the rule” , since at best all
psychic phenomena if they ever existed object­
ively are essentially in the nature of exceptions.
I would almost go so far as to say that in their
exceptional incidence they are themselves the
strongest evidence of their own impossibility !—
since as essentially exceptional, what of the rule ?
Consider Sir Oliver Lodge’s brilliant comment.
If, he points out, one accepts the statement
that a certain town was totally destroyed by fire
or volcano, and not a living thing survived, and then
subsequently a stray sheep or goat was found
wandering amidst the ruins— does not this isolated
exception strengthen the rule to all Eternity ?
It was on account of The Adventure’s total
dissimilarity from all other alleged phenomena,
and the number of strangely contradictory
PREFACE
PREFACE XIX
speculations occasioned by its challenge, that I at
once recognised it as unsuited to treatment along
the lines I had utilised to dispose of such stumb­
ling-blocks as spiritualism and telepathy, both of
which I had rejected after long study and patient
consideration.
The story contains, it must be admitted, the
ring of truth, not to mention the exceptional
qualifications of its authors to present a case as
free from obvious criticism as anything ever
recorded. Yet the very magnitude of its implied
speculations seemed to present a challenge which
must be met if hopeless confusion were to be
avoided.
It is one of the greatest tributes to The
Adventure that so few serious attempts have
ever been made to provide an answer which will
bear the light of serious consideration. And
even now I doubt whether anything at all con­
vincing could be offered in explanation outside
the scope of a considerable volume. Since it is
only by meeting the authors on their own ground,
demolishing stone by stone the structure so
arduously erected, that one can drive a wedge of
effective criticism which could hope to shake the
foundations of their work.
In the following pages, therefore, I shall
endeavour to criticise the remarkable story of
The Adventure from every relevant angle, since
in view of the facts as they stand some explanation
is necessary.
It is not usual for intelligent women to spend
XX PREFACE
half a lifetime in pursuit of a mere fantasy, and
to offer their findings to a sceptical world. What,
then, was the basis of this carefully substantiated
story ?
Where lay the cunning twist which welded a
mass of non-essentials into a fixed and unalterable
conviction ?
Who lit the burning flame which fired and
sustained the authors through eleven years of
painstaking research, and induced them to offer
such a tale ?
These last questions again recall the central
and most provocative challenge presented by
Mr. Morison’s Who M oved the Stone?
“ Only from an intensely heated centre of
burning zeal could this vast field of lava have
been thrown out from a tiny country like
Palestine to the limits of the Roman World.
. . . What that experience was, whether it was
physical, psychological, or both, or some
transient happening outside the sphere of our
immediate knowledge— is the crux of our
present study.”
Can it be that which serves for one is also
applicable to the other? I f so, there may be
something in the reasoning I shall advance
which reaches far beyond the limits of an alleged
vision at Versailles.
A n Adventure, on w hich th is book is based, w as first published
in 1911 b y M acm illan and C om pany. In 1931 it w as published in
the Readers’ L ibra ry b y F ab er and F ab er. T h e la test edition
appeared in I93& ^H
CH APTER I
THE STORY AS WE HAVE IT
The story of The Adventure is based initially
on the signed statements of Miss Moberly and
Miss Jourdain which were written independently
in 1901, some few months after the occurrence
itself, a fact which will receive further con­
sideration, and lodged finally in the Bodleian
Library. The crux of the whole problem centres
round a combined visit to the Trianon made on
August 10th, 1901, though the book also refers
to minor experiences which occurred later in or
near the same vicinity.
In brief, the following is what we are asked to
believe.
Early in August 1901 Miss Anne Moberly, \
head of an Oxford women’s college, had occasion J *
to be staying for a few weeks in Paris.
It was the year of the first great International
Exhibition, and she had gone over to spend a
holiday with a friend, Miss Jourdain, who at
that time occupied her own flat in the French
capital.
Both these ladies were associated with educa­
tional interests in this country, and they looked
forward to enjoying a leisurely tour of the
historical and architectural sights of Paris.
21
Neither of them, at that time, possessed anything
beyond the ordinary tourist’sknowledge ofthe city.
It was agreed between them that the mornings
and afternoons should be devoted to sight-seeing
excursions, and that they should go each evening
to the Exhibition, which was then attracting huge
crowds of visitors from all parts of the world.
On August ioth they decided to spend the
afternoon at Versailles, and as in those days it
took a considerable time to reach the Palace.
itself by train and tram, the afternoon had
advanced by the time they had walked through
the immense salons and corridors and had sat
down to rest against the open windows overlook­
ing the great gardens.
There still seemed time, however, to visit the
Trianons, of which, of course, both ladies had
heard, though neither knew anything further of
them than that they had been used by Marie-
Antoinette for pleasure purposes, and that they
were smaller residences inside the Palace grounds.
They ascertained from Baedeker’s guide the
general direction in which the Trianons lay, and
for the first time learned that there were two so-
named establishments, the smaller of which
appeared to be the more interesting. They
therefore set out to walk towards the position
indicated in the guide-book map, which led them
straight down the great gardens, alongside the
ornamental waters, and into a thickly wooded
glade. It was a sunny afternoon and a fresh
wind was blowing.
122 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
Following what they considered to be the right
direction, they came to a long, low building on
their left, which they took for the Grand Trianon.
Having passed it, they noticed a wide green
avenue on their right, perfectly deserted. Had
they followed this it would have brought them
direct to the front entrance of the Petit Trianon,
but they took, instead, a narrow lane leading
straight on through a thickly wooded glade.
At this point a feeling of depression seemed to
come over them, though at the time neither
mentioned it to the other. The wind seemed to
drop, and the trees and scenery took on an unreal
artificial aspect, to use their own words, “ as
though painted on canvas5
’.
They came to some farm-buildings, and met
two officials dressed in green uniforms, whom
they took to be gardeners. They asked one of
these men the way to the house, and were directed
somewhat bluntly to continue straight on.
Miss Moberly was afterwards able to describe
the two men in great detail, both as to appear­
ance, bearing, and dress.
The whole place had by this time assumed a
condition of sullen stillness, though neither of the
ladies referred to it. Passing some farm-buildings
on their right, they noticed some farm imple­
ments, apparently discarded, a plough, and a
cottage, outside which Miss Jourdain, only, re­
membered seeing a woman and child.
At this point they heard the sound of running
footsteps, and a young man wearing a green cloak
THE STORY AS WE HAVE IT 23
appeared with great suddenness immediately
behind them. He was out of breath, and did not
seem to have come along either of the adjacent
paths. He at once began to give them rapid
directions, telling them not to turn left, but to
turn right, and “ Cherchez la maison.” He said
many other things as well, but so rapidly as to
be almost unintelligible. Then the man ran
away, and they heard the sound of his footsteps
through the trees for some time after he was lost
to sight.
The two ladies followed the young man’s
instructions, turned right, and entered a narrow
grotto, at the opening to which was a stone
kiosk. As they passed it they both noticed a
repulsive-looking man who was sitting on the low
surrounding wall. He was wearing a large sun-
hat, and his face was heavily marked as with
smallpox. He turned and looked at them, but
said nothing. They followed the narrow path
leading through the grotto ahead, and crossed a
small footbridge which skirted a tiny waterfall
on their right. They were on high ground until
they reached an orchard-like meadow, from
which, at last, the front of the Petit Trianon itself
could be seen.
Miss Moberly noticed that the house was
smaller than she had expected, and her interest
in her surroundings at once became acute. In
front of the house, sitting on the rough grass
which grew right up to the terrace, a lady was
sitting, apparently sketching. There seemed to
24 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
be nothing to sketch, but her attitude and the
fact that she held a paper of some sort gave the
impression that she was sketching. Her dress
and general appearance were noted, and seemed
in no way remarkable at the time.
They walked up to the north terrace by steps
leading straight in front of them, and wandered
round to the west side, looking for an entrance.
The terrace continued on one level past the west
windows and in front of another building adjacent.
Suddenly a door in this second building
opened, and a young man ran out, banging the
door behind him. He ran rapidly towards the
two ladies and told them that they must not
remain there, and he offered to escort them
towards the main entrance. This he did, by
leading them down from the terrace on the west
side, through an opening and along the end of
the broad green drive, which they should have
taken before meeting the gardeners. After this
they joined a party of French tourists, who were
going round the house in charge of a guide.
Later they took a carriage and returned to
Versailles. They noticed during the short drive
that the wind was blowing and everything again
seemed fresh and natural.
Neither Miss Moberly nor Miss Jourdain
mentioned the Trianon visit again for a week.
When at last the subject was discussed, it seemed
to dawn on them that something most extra­
ordinary had happened.
Firstly, Miss Jourdain had not seen the sketch-
THE STORY AS WE HAVE IT 25
ing lady, though they had passed so close to her
that they had actually to make a slight detour to
reach the steps, nor had Miss Moberly noticed
either the cottage or the plough.
Suspecting a major mystery, these two ladies
were wise enough to write and sign, independently
of each other, separate accounts of the visit, and
to date them 1901.
Having done this, Miss Moberly went to
Versailles again in January 1902. To her
amazement the whole place had changed, or
seemed to have changed. She could not find
the grotto, nor was there any sign of the kiosk
against which the repulsive-looking man had
been sitting. There were no steps leading
direcdy up to the terrace o f the house, and the
door through which the young man had rushed
was quite invisible from where they had stood on
account o f an old wall which intervened. The
meadow in front of the house looked different
and clearer of trees than they had previously
seen it, and the spot on which the lady had been
sitting was now a well-kept drive, obviously not
new.
The idea now struck Miss Moberly that in
some manner, during the visit in 1901, they had
wandered into the past, and had seen the Trianon
exactly as it had been in 1789, the year in which
Marie-Antoinette had spent her last summer
there, and, further, that the lady seen sitting on
the terrace might have been the Queen herself.
With this idea in mind it was natural, of course,
26 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
to clothe everything and everybody seen or
remembered on the day in question with the
apparel and demeanour of their historic counter­
parts, the two gardeners becoming officials of
the Court, the two young men junior attendants,
or similar, and the repulsive-looking man a suit­
able aristocrat likely to have access to the Queen’s
grottoes at that time.
Had the story ended here it would have caused
little or no controversy, but it did nothing of the
sort. In fact, this was only the beginning— the
real adventure slowly unwinding before the
authors’ eyes during a period of some eleven
subsequent years. For every aspect of the
scenery noticed in 1901 was confirmed as having
existed in 1789, though in actual fact it had long
since altered or been destroyed.
No person living in 1901 could possibly have
known the place in such detail as the author’s
subsequent inquiries were able to establish, for in
every case where they asserted this or that to
have been present, or absent, old documents
have borne them out to the letter.
Even the names and history of the people they
met were one by one identified and described
in obscure papers which would ordinarily never
again have seen the light of day.
The grotto through which they walked had
been destroyed by Louis Philippe. The terrace
they traversed on the west side of the house was
replaced by a wall over a hundred years ago,
and the only access to what proved to be the
THE STORY AS WE HAVE IT 27
chapel door (from which the man had run,
banging it behind him) was removed long before
1901.
So careful were the principals in checking and
double checking all the evidence which went to
build up their remarkable case that it was not
until 1911 that anything of it was published,
when the whole story, now complete, appeared
in their anonymous book A n Adventure, a recent
edition of which has since appeared in the names
of the authors.
For a long time it. was extremely difficult to
obtain any information as to the detail arrange­
ment of the Trianon gardens and outbuildings as
they were in 1789.
However, by a stroke of good fortune there
was found, in 1903, hidden up a chimney near
Paris, an old map of the Trianon gardens, made
about 1780 by the Queen’s landscape gardener,
Mique, who subsequently followed his mistress to
the guillotine.
On examining this map closely it was possible
to identify the vanished kiosk, the alleged grotto,
the flat terrace in front of the chapel, and the
cottage which Miss Jourdain saw and which has
long since disappeared. A n enlarged section of
the map is reproduced in all editions of An
Adventure.
The investigations, after dealing with a mass
of exact documentary support for the story, also
include a great deal of circumstantial contribu-
tary evidence. For instance, Miss Moberly and
28 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
Miss Jourdain in 1901 noticed that there seemed
to be on all sides a tendency for the officials to
regulate and guide visitors, and a general
atmosphere o f restrictions and suspicion of
strangers. Actually, since the middle of the
nineteenth century visitors to Versailles have
been allowed to wander about where they liked,
quite unmolested. But it would not have been
so in 1789.
Then, again, even the repulsive-looking man
seen sitting by the kiosk was eventually placed.
In 1789 there had been at the Court of Louis
Sixteenth a Creole, the comte de Vaudreuil.
M uch patient investigation on this point not only
enabled a full description of this man to be
unearthed, but even reference to his pock-marked
complexion and that he was in the habit of
wearing a sun-hat found support in contemporary
records.
During the course of the long investigations
Miss Jourdain visited the Trianon on numerous
occasions, both in summer and winter. She took
photographs and interviewed local authorities,
always with the same positive results.
O n two or three subsequent occasions she
experienced a recurrence of the old strange con­
ditions, and these instances will be referred to
later. T o m y mind they form the weakest link in
the remarkable chain, and in the best interests of
the story should have been left out altogether.
It must be admitted that the foregoing resume
of the story of The Adventure does not do justice
THE STORY AS WE HAVE IT 29
to the challenge implied in its publication, as it
is only on considering the apparendy unsur-
mountable pile o f confirmation that one is able
to appreciate its unique strength. Let it be
admitted that never before has such a proposition
been offered in support o f the apparendy impos­
sible. It is the arch ghost story o f all time, and
must have proved a stumbling-block to coundess
self-satisfied sceptics ever since its appearance,
over twenty-five years ago.
30 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
C H A PTE R II
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS
T o speculate on the larger issues inherent in the
acceptance or rejection of The Adventure is not
within the scope of the present volume. Having,
however, given the story as it concerns the main
points— which, as I have already said, does little
justice to its value as a whole, it might be as well
to note the following. Its acceptance must of
necessity involve issues so contradictory as to
stagger the most vivid imagination. Far from
being merely a claim to post-vision— a difficult
enough conception in any case for most of us—
The Adventure seeks to support physical and
chronological phenomena quite beyond the
reach of any recognised system— and that with
a confusion of interdependence which complicates
them to all eternity.
For instance, the authors’ claim to have walked
over terraces and high ground which have since
disappeared, or been levelled, at a time when
other visitors were presumably using the locali­
ties in their modern form ! What unthinkable
superimposition could cover the requirements of
the nearest “ normal” visitor who followed the
couple over the rustic bridge ?
Again : the historical persons whom they met,
3
1
though living presumably in the year 1789, were
also appearing (and for a few moments acting)
arbitrarily in the year 1901. And nothing is
mentioned of the astonishment occasioned to the
“ gardener” , for instance, when questioned by two
beings from a remote future !
“They answered in a seemingly casual and
mechanical way” , says Miss Jourdain, in her first
statement, and on repeating the question they
only got the “same answer in the same manner”.
It is just this complication of “impossible”
suppositions, with their endless and confusing
contradictions, which renders The Adventure
unique in occult literature, and the urge either
to explain it or justify it as it stands becomes
almost overwhelming.
M y attempts to do so have at last led me to
the conclusion, somewhat reluctantly entertained,
that the whole thing can be explained in natural
terms.
Certain of the authors’ observations must, of
course, remain unanswered, since it is manifesdy
impossible after so long to parry successfully each
and every point. If, however, I am able to offer
the reader a picture more in keeping with common
reason than would be necessary to the story’s
acceptance, even in principle, then I have
achieved my object.
Notice first a very peculiar thing. The two
ladies took their memorable walk on August 10th,
1901, returning to Paris the same evening. Both
had seen people dressed in the unfamiliar
32 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
costumes of over a hundred years ago. Both had
felt strangely depressed and uncomfortable for
over half an hour, and were frightened simulta­
neously by the appearance of a repulsive-looking
stranger seated in semi-darkness under the trees.
Both had seen the scenery and trees become
“fixed, and as though painted on canvas” , and
yet neither mentioned any o f these things to the other
for over a week. “Nor did I think about it.”
May I here make one more quite unpardonable
digression ? It is to refer once again to a point
in Mr. Morison’s Who Moved the Stone? His
“mysterious seven weeks” , the weeks of silence
which followed the crucifixion, at the end of
which came the first recorded affirmation of the
resurrection. A week . . . seven weeks ?
The question which first raised the subject was
casual enough !— coming as it did a week later,
when the couple were back again in Paris. “ Do
you think that the Petit Trianon is haunted ?”
Miss Moberly asked. “Yes, I do,” was the
reply, and from that moment, casually at first,
notice, but with increasing zeal, the two intrepid
ladies commenced to build their remarkable case.
That they built backwards no one will deny, and
in its best interests this early reversal of progress
is regrettable enough. Had one of them been
sufficiently impressed at the time, and it seems
incredible in view of what followed that this
was not the case, local inquiries could no doubt
bave set the whole matter at rest within a few
days. The trees would have still been in full
c
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 33
34 t h e m y s t e r y o f Ver sa ille s
leaf, the waterfalls running at the same strength,
the cultivated flowers and shrubs, which change
so entirely in a season, still identifiable, whilst
persons about the place could easily have been
interrogated as to who and how many people
had visited there that day.
Instead of this, with waning memory, Miss
Jourdain makes the first of her next series of
visits in the depth of winter on January 2nd, 1902.
Note, particularly, that it is her impressions
on this visit which seem to consolidate and con­
firm the amazing theory subsequently advanced.
And yet, curiously enough, she never once
attempted to walk critically over the scene of her
original experience— but, instead, spent the whole
afternoon wandering about between the Trianon
and the Hameau, where the “ old feeling returned
in full force” . Mysterious music permeated the
air, and vague impressions of invisible crowds
encompassed her on all sides ; “ a man clothed
like those we had seen before” slipped smoothly
through the trees. She was overtaken by a tall
gardener (presumably ghostly) and “ made my
w ay from there to the French garden, without
noticing the paths I took” . This is significant,
as it refers to the section over which the ladies
had their first experience, and would indicate
that even in January 1902, with a memory faded
by nearly six months’ interval, the details had
not yet impressed themselves sufficiently to war­
rant even noticing the paths.
T h at evening Miss Jourdain heard related a
number of legends relating to ghostly apparitions
at the Trianon, most of which coincided broadly
with her most recent experiences.
It is noticeable here, for the first time, that
Miss Jourdain, for some unaccountable reason,
seemed totally unable to grasp her opportunities.
She had gone to Versailles to confirm a growing
conviction that it had been the scene of a remark­
able vision. She had had six months in which to
consider it from every angle, and would, under
these circumstances, have been expected to
welcome anything even remotely resembling the
first strange impression. Yet she calmly describes
this second strange adventure as though viewed
without surprise or emotion, even to the odd
details of the historic dress worn by farm-workers
and others, instead of at once accosting, or
attempting to interrogate, them with the leading
questions so urgently necessary to her case.
Miss Moberly’s second visit to the Trianon
was on July 4th, 1904. She found everything
changed, and could not locate the kiosk, the tiny
bridge, nor the narrow grotto. It might here be
noted, though I shall refer to it again, that she
did on this occasion see the Belvedere (a type of
kiosk), a rustic bridge, and ornamental waters.
Considering a lapse of three years, one stone
kiosk, one rustic bridge, and one rock-sided walk
would surely look very much like others of their
kind in each case, when the first impression must
of necessity have been rapid and casual, assuming
no special reason to note detail. Yet she makes
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 35
much of this “ difference” , and of the fact that
the area “ seemed clearer of trees” and more open
in character. Such a change of impression is
universally familiar on second visits, where in
many cases the same places seem almost unrecog­
nisable, except in the most general aspect.
Much has been made of the detailed descriptions
contained in the 1901 statement. I have myself
spent hours trying to trace the various small
scenes and comers described before fully appre­
ciating that the pictures presented are essentially
retrospective, and simply will not stand for analysis
in the cold glare of contemporary daylight.
That cloistered court at my old school, which
I can still picture theoretically in fullest detail,
would look quite different today if I were to call
in and wander through it again. It looked large,
venerable, and impressive once, but it would
probably strike me as small and quaintly
unimpressive now.
When I first went to boarding-school I thought
my father’s house was large. It was, but it had
shrunk to the dimensions of a tiny cottage on the
first day of the holidays. Visual memory can
be strangely deceptive— the standards are so in­
finitely elastic and change themselves from day
to day.
In every sense the present “ Rocher Bridge” ,
near the Belvedere kiosk, is a small rustic bridge,
though the description “ tiny” might possibly be
an exaggeration in terms. It crosses a narrow
stream and today a sheet of water is immediately
36 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
on the left, there being no foliage nor trees to
obscure it, though this might not have been so in
1901, in view of the constant pruning and general
attention which is given daily to the gardens at
this point.
Its whole setting suggests the description
*‘grotto55 from every angle, and it is situated in a
position o f deep shade and seclusion.
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 37
C H A PTE R III
THE igOI STATEMENTS
As we have noted already, the published story
of The Adventure centres primarily in the two
statements in writing made by Miss Jourdain and
Miss Moberly in 1901. I almost unconsciously
named Miss Jourdain first in this instance, since
both statements appear in some vague manner
to have been instigated by her, though nominally
throughout the work Miss Moberly takes an
implied seniority.
It might be as well to examine the two 1901
statements in some detail before proceeding
further, and in setting out to do so certain
observations at once become glaringly apparent.
In the first place, the statements are understood
to be, and have been described as, “ independent”,
and as far as their actual writing is concerned
they certainly are. They were not even written
on the same day, and were executed in different
places, but they followed much mutual discussion,
both in this country and in France, during the
three months which elapsed before the decision to
write them was finally arrived at.
There is no question as to the authorship and
nominal independence of the documents, both
of which I have examined minutely. One,
3
8
Miss Moberly’s, is considerably longer than the
other, and the handwriting of each is, of course,
beyond question. They bear the date 1901, but
it should be noticed that when they appear in
print they are not strictly adhered to, though no
actual claim is made on this point. The state­
ments are so nearly identical with the published
versions that few people, even if they read the two
together, would regard the small difference as of
any importance, since at most they could be
regarded as paraphrases, with modifications in
keeping with the style and requirements of the
book.
On further reflection, however, it seems
incredible that the authors should have allowed
the smallest discrepancy to creep into the repro­
duction of these vital statements, especially in
view of the obvious form in which likely destruc­
tive criticism would be expected to develop.
I shall refer to this in detail later, and for the
moment must content myselfwith an examination
of the statements as we have them, though I do
not propose to reproduce them here in full.
It is important to remember that no less than
three months had passed before anything at all
was committed to writing, with the exception of
a letter, descriptive of the Trianon visit to which
Miss Moberly refers as having been written to
someone in England at the time she first suggested
to Miss Jourdain that the Trianon was haunted,
and which must have been the last— and probably
the only— written record of the afternoon’s
THE 1901 STATEMENTS 3 9
experiences before either of the parties suspected
anything unusual.
Where is that letter ? And why, in view of all
that followed, was it not immediately recovered
for reference? No record is available to show
that an attempt was made to recover it, and it
does not seem to have occurred to anyone that
it might well throw invaluable light on the early
impressions so belatedly recorded !
The two statements have a “ natural” variation
in detail consistent with the observations of two
different people who are together at the same
scene; but it is difficult to overlook the fact that
after so much mutual discussion they must, ipso
facto, be to a large extent interdependent,
however much each may have attempted to avoid
it at the time of writing, and this must be borne
well in mind when considering them in detail.
Now, considered broadly, remembering the
lapse of time involved, and with regard to the
implications inherent in this study, one is com­
pelled to feel astonished at the wealth of detail so
confidently recorded.
Further, the supernatural aspects of what the
parties are supposed to have seen are described
in such detail as to be wholly inconsistent with
their first impressions of the place which, on
their own admission, caused them not the slightest
suspicion.
Imagine, for instance, having noticed that
when the “ running man” appeared he seemed to
“ grow out of the scenery” , and when he “ fust
40 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
settled his feet on the ground” did so “ with a
little quiver of adjustment” (app. p. 116)
without at the time thinking it in any way
unusual !
And Miss Jourdain’s statement. “ I remember
drawing my skirt away with a feeling as though
someone were near and I had to make room, and
then wondering why I did it.” Such an impres­
sion might reasonably have been apparent at the
time, but to recall a mere “ feeling” , even a week
later, seems remarkable, to say the least, especially
when no thought of anything unusual connected
with the incident had crossed her mind during
the interval.
It will be noticed that both statements agree
largely as to the points at which the feeling of
THE ig O I STATEMENTS 4 1
existence of a discrepancy amongst the earliest
of the original documents in the case. There
was no actual reason for this, excepting a growing
dislike for the form and structure of certain
aspects of the case. In view of this, a discovery
I made on the occasion of my last search seems
to have the greatest possible significance, since
it bears on obscure points which had hitherto
given me much trouble.
The reader will understand this better when
I come to discuss the points in question, but it
is enough for the moment to note that certain
descriptive parts of the 1901 documents have
been left out of the published version, whilst in one
or two cases descriptive matter appears to
have been added, inconspicuously, here and
there.
Now, to me this appears indefensible. One
would have at least expected that the original
statements would have been word perfect in
their ultimate form, even, if necessary, without
regard to grammar and syntax; but the dis­
crepancies exist. The most significant of these
I will quote in full, though their importance may
not be realised until later.
In Miss Jourdain’s original statement we read:
“ In front of us was a slope, leading down to a
stream, which on our right hand fell over stones,
and was crossed by a rustic bridge.”
Now, this has been omitted from the published
version, and instead o f this description we have
Miss M oberly’s 21s follows : “ Silently we passed
42 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
over a small rustic bridge which crossed a
tiny ravine. So close to us when on the bridge
that we could have touched it with our right
hands, a threadlike cascade fell from a height
down a green pretty bank, where ferns grew
between stones. Where the little trickle of water
went to I did not see, but it gave me the impres­
sion that we were near other water, though I
saw none.”
Now as I shall claim that on the day in
question the two ladies crossed the present
Rocher Bridge, the discrepancy here is signally
impressive.
But I find myself in a still stronger position in
noting a sentence in Miss Jourdain’s statement
which, conveniendy enough, has not been re­
printed. It reads as under :
“ As we walked, I found myself wondering
whether anyone had ever stumbled over from
the path into the water on our left.”
W hat water? Miss Moberly noticed none.
According to her, she was walking in a narrow
grotto on a bridge over a tiny artificial cascade,
the water from which ran downwards towards
some unseen pool? Miss Jourdain actually felt
the necessity for care in avoiding a fall into the
water on her left.
The present Rocher Bridge crosses a stream,
coming apparently from the right, and skirts a
considerable stretch of water on its left, quite
deep enough in appearance to look unattractive
as an involuntary bathing-pool. So that though
THE I goI STATEMENTS 43
44 th e m ystery of Versailles
neither of the statements describes the setting of
the bridge correctly, Miss Jourdain does so in a
passage which has been left out o f the published
version.
A further difference between the two versions
of the statements detracts little from the uncer­
tainty as to the true nature of the locality, for
in Miss Jourdain’s final version o f the scene,
apparently added later, we read :
“ We walked on, crossing a small bridge that
went across a green bank high on our right hand
and shelving down below as to a very small over­
shadowed pool of water glimmering some way
off. A tiny stream descended from above us,
so small as to seem to lose itself before reaching
the little pool.”
So with this passage we get back to the tiny
stream and almost invisible pool, and hear no
further of the near-by water mentioned in the
original statement.
Now, with these conflicting descriptions in
mind I will give you an impression of the bridge
as I saw it this year, using approximately the
same number of words and similar treatment.
From the north side I approached a slope
leading to a small rustic bridge which crossed a
little stream flowing under it to the lake on my
left. It fell over stones, forming a miniature
cascade before reaching the lake itself. O n the
right of the bridge, so close that I could have
touched it, was a rugged, precipitous rock with
irregular crevices and small caves opening into
it. It towered up high above the bridge, and
looked damp and cool. A t the end o f the bridge
the tiny path led through a narrow grotto
apparendy cut in the rock itself.
T hat is the present Rocher Bridge and its
setting ; which in retrospect becomes to Miss
Moberly and Miss Jourdain the vanished grotto
and artificial waterfall.
I agree with Miss Moberly that the whole
place “ has a sombre look suggestive o f damp­
ness” , and I noticed that even on a hot summer
day it was so dark as to render photography
difficult with an ordinary camera— the photo­
graph I took there last August failing to come
out clearly due to under-exposure.
Had neither of the ladies noticed the very
prominent stretch of water which lies adjacent
to the bridge, one might have considered the
matter differently, and in the published version
of the statements no such water is mentioned.
But the unpublished and very clear description
of a feeling of danger in falling into deep water
would seem to stamp both later descriptions as
unreliable, and is exactly in accordance with thefacts.
It would be quite possible to slip from the
path, and I could well imagine a woman accus­
tomed to taking charge of young children feeling ’
the sense of danger there.
Again, in the 1901 statement Miss Jourdain
describes the person who came across the terrace
to direct them in these terms : “ . . . until a
boy came out and directed us to go to the other
THE I9OI STATEMENTS 45
entrance” . But in the published version of her
separate account we have : “ While we were on
the terrace a boy came out o f the door of a second
building which opened on it, and I still have the
sound in m y ears o f his slamming it behind him.”
This description o f a sound would be remark­
ably vivid if used some hours after the event.
Surely after at least four months, and probably
very much longer, it is exaggeration beyond all
reason? It appears, I think, however, in the
Moberly statement from the first and would
tend to support the theory that if the statements
are nothing else, they are essentially collabora-
tory, if not consciously so, and indeed after so
much mutual discussion in the interim I fail to
see how they could possibly be otherwise.
Again, on the question o f the “ running man”
we find a small but significant addition in Miss
Jourdain’s final account which does not appear
in the o rig in al:
“ I do not remember the dress, except that the
m aterial was dark and heavy,” to which in the
published version is added, “ and that the man
wore buckled shoes.”
There m ay be other slight differences between
the original and the later statements, but there
would not appear to be anything o f great
importance. I have not had long enough to
check the w ording to the letter, and I noted that
quite naturally some o f the less im portant parts
o f the statem ent w ere paraphrased without, I
think, losing anything o f their m eaning.
46 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
By far the most im portant single discrepancy
appears to be the reference by Miss Jourdain to
the close presence o f a sheet o f water, since this
is the only mention o f it as it refers to this
part o f the story, and in m y opinion fixes the
locality o f the bridge irrevocably. In fact, both
accounts, w ith this included, are fairly good
after-descriptions o f a walk over the R ocher
Bridge, and I am certain that I could have
given nothing more accurate from mem ory if
I had crossed it as they did with no reason to
m ake a special note o f its topography.
W ith these and unim portant minor exceptions,
the 1901 statements appear to have been faith­
fully reproduced.
THE I go I STATEMENTS 47
C H A PTE R IV
PSYCHOLOGICAL CONSIDERATIONS
M uch has been made throughout by the authors
of An Adventure of what one might describe as
the “atmosphere” of the place, and for my part
I feel there is much to say on this point necessary
to an understanding of its constant stress. Shortly
after commencing a detailed study of the
Trianon Mystery, I happened to read an article
in the Autocar written by Miss Helen McKie in
which she describes a three-day trip to Paris
by road. She and her friend motored to Versailles
and, after parking the car, proceeded on foot
for a visit to the Palace.
“The gloomy day,” she writes, “threatening
rain, had its compensations, for with the excep­
tion of the attendants and an odd gardener or
so we had Versailles to ourselves.” Both attend­
ants and odd gardeners appear so often and so
significantly in An Adventure that I was anxious
to read further.
“No one can fail to be impressed with the
grandeur and dignity ofVersailles, however many
times he may have been there. The atmosphere
vibrates with the majesty of the ancien regime
coupled with a feeling o f tragedy which at times
becomes almost overwhelming.
48
PSYCHOLOGICAL CONSIDERATIONS 49
“ We wandered through those wooded avenues
. . . and eventually arrived at the Petit Trianon,
which, in spite of its dignified simplicity, seemed
to look out with tragic reproachful eyes from its
blank shuttered windows. . . . The whole pro­
duced an air of wistful gaiety. . . . I wonder what
it is that produces that profound air o f tragedy over Ver­
sailles. It cannot be accounted for entirely by
the fate of the unhappy Louis Sixteenth and
his beautiful queen. It seems to go deeper than th a t”
In a much more general way these very
practical tourists seem to have caught something
of the feeling which induced Miss Moberly and
her friend to endow the place with special
influences, without in any way suggesting that
they were other than entirely subjective. I
suggest that, though quite different, this frank
description of the influence of Versailles and its
surroundings is equally impressive and much
more accurate than that of many passages in
the book in question. But having no other
“ axe to grind” , our motoring friends uncon­
sciously get nearer a true description of the
“ feeling of depression” than was possible to two
visitors who had convinced themselves they had
been in the presence of the supernatural.
Neither description is far wrong, though
presented so differendy.
I myself felt it twice this year. But it was not
then due either to the tragedy of the monarchy
or to anything inherent in the surroundings, but
entirely accountable to my late absorption in
D
the mystery under consideration, which at that
time, as far as I was concerned, had still to be
explained. I felt the strangest reluctance to
enter certain sections of the grounds, which on
both occasions were quite deserted, and though
knowing it to be completely irrational, eyen a
tendency to scrutinise obvious American tourists,
when they did turn up m-the^afternoon, in a
laughable attempt to discover some oddity about
their dress or demeanour which would stamp
them as irregular or peculiar. Not too difficult,
I may say, considering the outfits some Americans
affect abroad in heat-waves !
The effect of stillness amongst large trees when
there is no wind is easy to appreciate, as also
one could at times picture the dark background
“ painted on canvas” , especially in the region of
the Belvedere and at the back of the English
garden.
The Trianon itself does look “ unnatural” with
its silent and reproachful air. It is unnatural
for a house of this size and type to remain
furnished, standing in its own well-kept grounds,
yet uninhabited except by the poignant memories
of the past. Look at the photograph of it from
the north side and you will catch something
of what I am trying to describe.
“ There were no effects, of light and shade,”
Miss Moberly remarks, “ and no wind stirred
the trees. It was intensely still.” But remember
that the English garden where this impression
appeared the strongest is protected on the north
50 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
PSYCHOLOGICAL CONSIDERATIONS 5 1
side by large trees, on the south by the Trianon
itself and its outbuildings, whilst the Rocher
Bridge and the site of the ancient grottoes lie in
a deep basin where even a gale would barely
penetrate.
Finally, arriving outside the house after going
through it with a guide, Miss Moberly remarks
that everything again was fresh and natural,
and that owing to the wind she put on her coat.
I took careful note when I was there and re­
marked specially that whilst there was a light
breeze blowing across the open park towards
the southern entrance to the house itself, not a
breath o f wind penetrated the gardens at the
other side. I walked rapidly from one side to
the other several times to confirm this.
Now, a feeling o f depression is a very vague
thing to define except on a purely subjective
basis. It is extrem ely doubtful whether any
locality has attached to it an atmosphere calcu­
lated to depress persons entering its field o f
influence, except for reasons at once apparent
either to the norm al emotions or reason o f the
observer. O ne can be hopelessly depressed b y
a m usical com edy, or, I im agine, fail to feel so at
a funeral, if the right person is being disposed
o f ! Y e t Miss M oberly and Miss Jourdain are
certainly under the impression that the influence
was objective in character, and attached to
certain clearly defined lim its and localities. M iss
Jou rdain p articularly refers on several occasions
to “ entering a field o f influence” ju st as real as
are both convinced that something outside their
own minds accounted for the feelings they suf­
fered, when clearly, apart from the normal
reactions of educated persons to such surround­
ings, this could not have been the case. Both
speak of a return of the feelings when thinking
over the experience, evidence in itself as to the
purely subjective nature of their first impressions.
It might be noted here the readiness with
which Miss Jourdain was willing to listen to
legends and unfounded rumours current in Paris
at the time.
During the autumn of 1901 she wrote to Miss
Moberly on several points bearing on the investi­
gation which was then just starting. In her
letter she quotes an entirely unproved story
that the Queen was to be seen at the Trianon on
a certain day in August, and that all the other
inhabitants of that time occupied their accus­
tomed places for a day and a night. I forget
Vio r o v o o f T»7Vkivlir»rr Vvi14
- cilia n Q n m 1 nli r oncYcrocifo
am perhaps anticipating a generalisation 1 hope
to make later, it would seem that the whole
history of France must be combed and scratched
for anything which would meet the facts of
their amazing allegations, wherein may lie the
key to the whole mystery, since with such vast
resources, granted the indomitable will to suc­
ceed, it could only be a matter of time before
each and every vacancy was suitably filled.
In 1789, for instance, there were attached to
the Court something like six hundred and fifty
major members either living in the Palace or
the town, and we are not told how many per-
54 t h e m y s t e r y o f Ve r sa ille s
1789. The chapel man was one. He must be
found. Without going a step further, assuming,
a list of the names of the Trianon staff in that
year, which was readily obtainable, it was merely
a question of choosing a young one, housing
him in the attic over the chapel door, and giving
him an obvious reason for interfering with anyone
on the terrace.
Imagine going one afternoon to Hampton
Court and mixing freely with the visitors,
speaking to some, noticing others. Return to
London, and a week later go to the British
Museum or elsewhere and study the intimate
history of Henry Eighth and his home life at
some selected date. It would certainly not be
long before you were able to find a part for each
of your selected actors, even if you had not at
the time been able to clothe them suitably!
Granted an unexpected retrospect, and the case
is surely parallel.
I am strongly inclined to date the birth of the
illusion, destined eventually to become The
Adventure, to the moment during the Paris
conversation when one or the other of its authors
first recalled the “ running man” . The general
idea of “ haunting” was touched on, and details
of the Trianon visit would be mutually re­
called.
“And do you remember how that fellow near
the kiosk suddenly appeared ?” I can imagine
one of them saying, to which the other would
reply, “ Yes, he seemed to come from nowhere,
PSYCHOLOGICAL CONSIDERATIONS 55
didn’t he ? It was curious.” “ A nd now I come
to think o f it, wasn’t he dressed rather unusually ?
D id you notice where he went afterwards ?
Seemed to disappear into thin air. . . . But he
called out after us— he shouted, ‘Mesdames.’ ”
T w o women suddenly confronted by an un­
known m an who seemed afterwards to have
appeared from nowhere. . . .
T w o women remembering a visit to a tomb
in the early hours o f the morning. . . . H e
shouted, “ Mesdames.”
“ H e saith unto her, ‘M ary.’ ”
Llewellyn Powys, faced with a not dissimilar
speculation in the course o f a critical examination
not without parallel, makes these comments :
“ H ow, then, did the story o f the resurrection
get spread abroad ? It must be remembered
that the accounts we have o f it were written
down long after the event was im agined to
have taken place. People either believe in the
resurrection or they do not. T hey either know
it to be true or know it not to be true. For a
lover o f wisdom to accept such an occurrence,
the most infallible proofs would have to be
accessible. T h ey are not. . . . Inherent in
m an’s nature is the disposition to be gulled.
. . . It is impossible to hold the theory that
the rum our was the result o f a deliberate
invention.”
In that shifting and uncertain sand was the
seed sown and nurtured, later in full stature to
add its obscuring and deceptive shadow to the
rest ? For in some such w ay the strange convic­
tion stirred and lived ; tended b y honest hands
to blossom at the end o f eleven years as The
Adventure.
56 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
C H A PTE R V
ACTIVE RESEARCH
It was not until January 1902 that any active
researches were made on the spot by either of
the principals, and on the second day of that
month Miss Jourdain made a special visit to
Versailles with the object, at last, of attempting
a first-hand “ check-up” on the various details
which had been under discussion for over five
months.
Her account of this visit seems to me most
unsatisfactory in many directions. Instead of
going at once to the area in which the adventure
was supposed to have taken place, she spent the
whole afternoon in the region of the Hameau,
only once crossing a corner of the area covered
on the famous walk during August, and then
taking litde or no account of what she saw there.
This not only delayed confirmation of details
which must only too rapidly have been fading
from her memory, but served if anything to
introduce new elements of doubtful value calcu­
lated to obstruct rather than clarify the issue.
She would have defended this action, I think,
by pointing out that at the time it had not
occurred either to her or Miss Moberly that the
scenery as well as the inhabitants of the Trianon
57
had changed since they saw them in 1901. This
is clearly indicated in the book itself, and whilst
in some ways it tends to justify inadequate and
wrongly concentrated investigation, it lengthens
the all-important interval between the original
experiences and their alleged confirmation, a
matter of vital importance where questions of
visual memory are concerned.
In her preface to An Adventure Miss Edith
Olivier is careful to point o u t:
“ The fact was that in the early days the
scenery had not appeared to them interesting
enough to be remembered, and unless they turned
back to the original narratives they forgot that
those points which had now come into promi­
nence had been there in the background from
the first.5
5
This position at least throws even more res­
ponsibility upon the wording of the 1901 state­
ments, which, as I have pointed out, show
serious discrepancies in several important details
as they stand, whilst they themselves make no
claim to have ever been written down before
November 1901, three months after the first
visit. Further, Miss Moberly has not hesitated
many years later in making additional observa­
tions on the question of the scenery as she saw
it in 1901, and in her preface, elaborates on the
appearance of the alleged grotto and what could
be seen from it, etcetera, in terms outside the
original statement.
In October the writer made a further journey
58 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
ACTIVE RESEARCH
to Versailles with a view to confirming a number
of points still in doubt, and spent most o f the
afternoon of Sunday the twenty-fourth covering
the ground on which Miss Jourdain had her
second experience, and which is fully described
in The Adventure, Chapter II.
Referring to this account, we find that Miss
Jourdain made this special visit in the depths o f
winter in January 1902, and made straight for
the path which leads to the Temple de FAmour,
presumably to ascertain whether it bore any
resemblance to the original kiosk which she said
she had seen in August 1901. I f we accept this
reason— and I can, under the circumstances, see
no other— the question of a change of scenery
must have already occurred to her— a fact which
wholly contradicts her action later in the day
when she passed over the original ground
“ without noticing which paths I took” (page 62).
“ On crossing the bridge which leads to the
Hameau,” she remarks, “ the old feeling returned
in full force ; it was as if I had crossed a line
and was suddenly in a circle of influence.”
She noticed some labourers and a cart. “ The
men wore tunics and capes with pointed hoods.
. . . I turned aside for an instant— not more—
to look at the Hameau, and when I looked back,
men and cart were completely out of sight.”
I stood on this spot and tried to visualise her
experience as so carefully recorded. There were
no workmen or carts to be seen, but the w ay
in which groups of visitors appeared and dis-
59
appeared amongst the trees could easily have
given an impression similar to that which Miss
Jourdain regarded as evidence of supernatural
appearances. The whole setting lends itself to
uncertain identification o f both stationary and
moving objects, and anyone in the right mood
for self-deception could find few places better
suited to its incidence.
In spite of the reason for her visit, she remarks
in this connection : “ I did not dwell upon any
part of the incident, but went on to the Hameau.”
I can but pass over the amazing description
which follows this observation aspurely imaginary,
and since it is not included in any part of the
subsequent confirmatory researches it is quite
impossible to deal with it objectively. I refer of
course to the sound o f women’s voices, the
impression of invisible crowds, and the echo of
distant music, etcetera.
Had we been dealing only with records
relating to subjective experiences, records of
dreams and the like, there would have been little
or nothing to differentiate the story of The
Adventure from the plethora o f occult data
which still pours into the editorial departments
of nearly every kind of newspaper and journal— 4$
data which I am strongly inclined to dismiss in *
toto as manifestations o f mass self-deception,
accountable to our ignorance of the more sub­
versive aspects of the human mind. I must,
therefore, except in so far as the allegations of
concrete confirmation are concerned, ignore all,
60 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
ACTIVE RESEARCH
or nearly all, even in this story, which stands
unsupported by subsequent findings of a tangible
nature.
When, therefore, in the narration of Miss
Jourdain’s second visit, she again becomes more
concrete in her presentations, it is possible to
proceed further.
After meeting and talking to a gardener to
whom we shall refer again, she found herself in
a wood of very tall trees with such high thick
undergrowth that she could not see through it
(page io i). She describes the position of this
wood with some accuracy, and remarks that it
was interspersed with paths running this way
and that, which seemed to lead nowhere in
particular. Now, during subsequent visits, both
ladies failed apparently to locate or identify this
wood, or recognise its described characteristics,
assuming inter alia that it had been cut down
within the last hundred years, but had existed in
1789 in the form in which Miss Jourdain saw it.
I spent a great deal of time in the locality in
question, and came to the conclusion that,
allowing for the lapse of years, the present time of
year, and the apparent procedure as to forestry
and clearance work in the area, the wood in
question is still, and was at the time of Miss
Jourdain’s visit, just as might be expected under
the circumstances, or substantially as she des­
cribed it in 1902. Her reference to thick under­
growth was not at first easy to explain away,
but became so at once when I discovered a
6 l
THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
62
section so thickly grown over with high black­
berry bushes as to be quite impassable, and
other very large areas ending abruptly along
straight sections where cutting had been arrested
by the end of the week’s clearance work, still
thickly studded with the short stubs of millions
of similar trees.
There seems therefore ample evidence to
support the contention that if a wood with thick
undergrowth was noticed by Miss Jourdain in
1902, it was entirely in accordance with the
then probable condition of the place, assuming
that at the time clearance work in that section
had not been recently completed. If, for instance,
the area I examined, as near as possible to the
described spot, were allowed to grow up un­
checked for some months only, the condition
would again be exactly in accordance with her
original picture, and have, therefore, not the
slightest significance to the case in question.
In view of this, the tireless research dealing
with the point in question which probably proves
fairly conclusively that a thick wood did exist
there in 1789 becomes singularly unimpressive.
Miss Moberly remarks that in the gardeners’
wages book for 1789 the gatherings-up and
occasional burnings of undergrowths in a wood
(apparently in this part of the garden) are
alluded to (National Archives O i 1876). And
on my visit to the Hameau this year I counted
the remains of over seven bonfires on the newly
cleared areas, clearly showing the extent of the
ACTIVE RESEARCH
clearance work still in progress and supporting
my contention that little or no change either
physical or in relation to procedure is likely
to have taken place here even since the time
of Louis Sixteenth, who is known to have taken
a personal interest in the park and its m ain­
tenance.
She also trium phantiy states that in M ique’s
map of 1783 the wood with its diverging paths
can be plainly seen. 6
‘It is approached b y the
two bridges over the river, and stretches towards
the hill on which the Orangerie stands.” W hich
description, with the allowances I have just
enumerated, is an accurate portrayal o f the
present nature and location o f the place.
One more word in this connection. Miss
Jourdain seems to attach importance to the
difficulty she had in finding her w ay amongst
the confusing paths at a time when the under­
growth was thick and impenetrable. I myself,
in spite of the recent clearances, and in a mood
of great concentration, with m ap in hand, failed
on two occasions to use the same actual paths
when trying to retrace m y steps to and from the
Orangerie, and would certainly have experienced
the same confusion had I walked there before
the clearances had been made. T h e area is
essentially formless and difficult to visualise in
the absence of local landmarks.
During the walk through the wood, Miss
Jourdain states that she heard the sound o f a
stringed band drifting past her from the house.
63
The sounds were very soft and wtenrmem
(page 102). “ She could afterwards write
from memory about twelve ban” in the key 4
A flat, but without all the inner harmonies,
Now, it is greatly to the credit of the author*
that even this vague statement was investigated
with tireless energy. “The bars were shewn toa
musical expat, who said that the ban could
hardly all belong to one another, but that th
e
idiom dated from about 1780” (page 103),
A search was started through a mass of un­
published music in the Conservatoire de Munqne
in Paris, where the twelve bars were eventually
“recognised” as forming the motif of a light
opera of the eighteenth century. A list ofpossible
compositions is given in The Adventure, several
of which had been played at the Trianon theatre
in 1780. Note here that the eternal 1789 is for
once abandoned in favour of an earlier date.
Now, on this question I can only speak from
personal experience, and as far as I can see it
would be difficult otherwise to obtain any sort
of ruling likely to be helpful to the case. 1
maintain that it would be impossible for anyone
to retain in memory twelve bars of an entirely
unknown air, unless at once recorded or sung
persistently until an opportunity for doing so
presented itself. Instead of this, we know that
after hearing the music Miss Jourdain continued
her lengthy walk, talked to a gardener, and, if
I read her correctly, made inquiries in Versailles
on other matters before she attempted to commit
64 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
ACTIVE RESEARCH
the music to writing, whilst we have no record
of her attempting to keep the fleeting and uncer­
tain air in mind by humming it to herself or
recording it on the spot.
It is well known that in many nervous dis­
orders, and in most cases of high fever, for
instance, the patient hears, or thinks he hears,
sorpe sort of music filtering through his brain.
It is, I believe, caused by the passage of bipod
through the inner ear, and aggravated naturally
by reminiscent factors latent in everyone, and
especially in the minds ofmusicians, a distinction
implied in the record, in so far as Miss Jourdain
was able to give a technical identification
afterwards.
To me the whole incident and its subsequent
examination is an indication of the extravagant
measures adopted by the authors where even the
remotest considerations are concerned. And
apart from direct influence of the incident, or
its value in estimating the issue as a whole, it
strikes me as redundant and unworthy of the
major items in the catalogue of evidential
considerata.
The question of music is raised again in the
latter part of Miss Moberly’s book where she
records the experiences of an American family
living in Versailles, though in this case less
definite attempts are made to substantiate the
claims concerned.
I shall deal with the matter of Miss Jourdain’s
meeting and conversation with the tall gardener
E
under another section, but one thing becomes
at once apparent in this instance— the strange
and incredible lack of enterprise displayed in
the face of such an opportunity, by which, as
far as I can see, the very essence of the whole
mystery might well have been examined and
located at first hand. Unless, indeed, once again,
the realisation of abnormality came afterwards—
the fatal tendency which marks the course ofthe
whole story.
Before leaving the question of Miss Jourdain’s
walk in 1902, I would like to refer to the feelings
of compulsion to which she alludes when unable
to make up her mind which paths to take and
which direction to follow in the region of the
woods. Since visiting Versailles I have heard
from a lady interested in the subject that a
similar feeling came over her in what I gather
to be much the same locality. She tells me that
at one point where the paths diverged nothing
would have induced her to take the one her
husband had commenced to traverse, owing to
a sudden inexplicable fear which caused her to
halt suddenly and, calling him back, proceed
the other way. I wrote this lady in reply asking
for fuller details and if possible a plan or indica­
tion of the spot in question. There has been no
reply, nor has m y addressed envelope been
returned. I had hoped to examine the spot
when next at the Trianon, but shall not apparently
be able to do so, and am again driven to the
conclusionthatmy correspondent not only realised
66 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
A C T IV E RESEARCH
the retrospective nature of her “ experience” , but
had the moral courage to abstain from com­
pounding an illusion.
Incidentally, at the end o f this walk Miss
Jourdain actually passed the Belvedere, which
she t(took for granted was the building we had
seen in August” , takingfor granted m y own certain
conviction that this in fact was the case. D oubts
on the subject were to come later in the researches
when, with still dimmer memory, the identifica­
tion of this building becomes one o f the central
points in the theme. So that whatever we m ay
have to consider with regard to this building
later, it may be borne in m ind that in 1902 Miss
Jourdain herself passed it, and has recorded her
belief in its identity with the kiosk o f 1901. In
view of later categorical denials o f this fact, the
remark in question is at least interesting.
67
CHAPTER VI
THE PLOUGH
In order to facilitate the reader’s appreciation of
the many points to be considered, I have thought
it advisable to adhere broadly to the sequence
followed in An Adventure, wherein the authors
have built up their evidence around various
heads representing the major items concerned
in the original “ apparitions” .
The first incident calling for consideration
under this heading appears to be Miss Jourdain’s
remembered glimpse of certain farm implements,
amongst which was a plough.
This plough was apparently lying alongside
what they later came to know as the “ logement”,
but which looked like farm outbuildings at the
time, and is mentioned casually enough when
first recalled, “ among others a plough” .
Once the researches had been seriously under­
taken, not unnaturally the memory of each item
seen in this location was carefully considered, and
the plough singled out for special attention.
In 1905 inquiries were made, and it was ascer­
tained that within the memory of one gardener
no plough had been kept at the Trianon— “there
was no need of one, as the Government only
required the lawns, walks, water, trees and
68
THE PLOUGH
flowers to be kept u p ” . B y 1908 w e find M iss
Jourdain, on the strength o f h er eight-year-old
memory o f a fleeting glan ce, entering in to a
discussion on the types o f p lou gh used in 1789
as com pared w ith that o f m odern tim es, from
which she learned that there w ou ld be a g reat
difference. E ven tu ally it w as ascertained th at
during the reign o f Louis Sixteenth a p lou gh h ad
been kept at the T rian on , b u t h ad been dis­
posed o f during the R evolu tion , and th at in those
dayst here had been plou gh lan d w h ere later
the H am eau was built.
A n old print show ing the D au p h in learn in g to
use a plough is reproduced in one o f the earlier
editions o f An Adventure. O n e cann ot b u t ad m ire
the tenacity o f purpose w h ich w en t to ach ieve
this rem arkable find, and, in keeping w ith the
whole o f the rest o f the investigations, its acquisi­
tion was a m atter o f tedious and pain stakin g
work, w ith m any abortive results an d dis­
appointing failures. A p lou gh h ad to b e found.
It was found.
Nevertheless, the evidence, if it can even b e so
called, in this instance am ounts to little m ore
than a collection o f rem otely connected d a ta,
m ainly o f a negative description, an d based in
the first place on a m em ory im age o f extrem e
weakness.
I must assume th at M iss J o u rd a in d id see a
plough am ongst a num ber o f other farm im p le­
ments, and w as ab le to recall it afterw ards.
This itself, incidentally, is a rem arkab le th in g,
69
since at the time o f her first visit the implement
itself cannot have been o f any interest, and could
easily have been something different. Few
women unconnected with agriculture would
even have noted the object amongst others, and
of all collections o f objects, farming machinery,
especially when out o f action, surely represents
the most formless and indistinguishable stock-in-
trade imaginable. Think of the typical agri­
cultural show, where instrument-makers have
their stands. Those devoted to ploughs, reapers,
grass-cutters and the like look just a jumble of
blades and handles to the uninitiated, or certainly
do to me.
We have, however, her recorded memory, and
the carefully prepared record of the research
which amounts to this :
In 1901 a plough was seen. Four years later,
in 1905, she was told by a gardener that no
plough was kept at the Trianon as none were
needed, etcetera. Did this gardener necessarily
refer to a period of over four years ?
It was eventually proved that a plough, not
in use, was kept (preserved) at the Trianon and
sold with the King’s properties during the
Revolution. If it was never used and merely a
relic, why should it be lying in the open air in
the logement courtyard, along with other imple­
ments presumably still in use ?
The evidence continues with the remark that
“ it would seem that no plough was used . . .
even in old days, for amongst a list of tools
70 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
THE PLOUGH
bought for the gardeners from 1780-1789 there
is no mention o f a plough. . . . In an old
map there is ploughed land w here later the
Hameau was built” (page 68). T h us no plough
was used in olden times because none was purchased
between 1780 and 1789, whilst the ploughed land
where now the H am eau stands presum ably
attended to its own surface treatm ent !
In 1789 the logem ent du corps de gardes, w hich
was mistaken in 1901 for farm buildings, w ou ld
almost certainly be in occupation b y the gardes
themselves, since the Q ueen w as presum ed to
be in residence.
Under these circum stances it w ou ld be ex­
tremely unusual to have farm im plem ents lyin g
in or near the courtyard, and still m ore so a
special plough w ith historic and personal associa­
tions which was being kept as a relic o f the reign
of Louis Fifteenth. A t that date only m ilitary
equipment would be likely to be in evidence,
and all farm im plem ents, if indeed there w ere
any, would surely be stored inside the gardeners5
enclosure.
B utin 1901, w hen the w hole group o f buildings,
including the logem ent, w ere presum ably occu ­
pied by civil governm ent em ployees and gar­
deners, as it is today, less care w ou ld b e exercised
to keep that particular spot free from u n tid y
farm implements. T h u s the picture the authors
draw of its general appearan ce is far m ore in
keeping w ith its m odem than its ancient aspect.
When I was there this year, a pile o f u n tid y
71
stones and rubble was spread half way across the
area in question, and a wheelbarrow lay upturned
against them.
Before leaving the examination of this area, it
would be well to consider the very obscure ques­
tion of what I shall describe as the “Avenue and
Gate55.
This matter is not singled out by the authors,
nor, I think, considered a major point, but as it
is mentioned several times, and figures in Miss
Jourdain’s alleged final supernatural experience
during a visit in 1908, I thought it advisable to
track it to its source.
The incident is, I think, important, as it tends
to prove an aptitude for confusion of similar
scenes, which characterises the whole story, and
which I shall advance in fuller detail in connec­
tion with the kiosk. There are two principal
gates leading eastward from the path the authors
took. One appears to have been closed for
centuries, and at some time gave access to the
gardeners’ enclosure. The other, which as far
as I can ascertain has had the actual gates
removed for many years (the bastions alone
remaining in situ), leads direct to the theatre
court, and would be used by carriages arriving
from the Palace. There is little doubt that the
authors, in building memory images in support of
matters concerning this locality, have confused
the two gates beyond all hope of identification.
Once the idea of changed scenery had gripped
their imagination, the different aspects of these
72 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
THE PLOUGH
two gates, both leading in the same general
direction, lent themselves admirably to the general
deception. Both testify to having seen wide-open
gates with a well-kept curved drive leading
inward between trees, but both assert that it was
the closed gates which were open, implying the
vice versa.
N ow, a fifty p er cen t con fu sion o f c h a ra c te r­
istics gives us the desired k ey, as th e closed gates
are backed b y tall trees, w h ose tru nks ca n b e , a
seen over the w oo d w o rk , w h ilst th e op en gates
do lead “ to a w ell-k ep t cu rved d rive w ith in ” . ^ *
Obviously, a v e ry sligh t m iscon cep tion w o u ld
bring these differences to b e a r on th e fixed id e a
of a m iraculous ch an ge in scen ery a t this p o in t.
In the ligh t o f this exp lan atio n , it n o w seem s
quite clear to m e th at th e gates w h ich m elted
before Miss J ou rd ain ’s eyes in 1908 w ere in fa ct
the open ones lead in g to th e th eatre co u rt.
Though w hy, after all h er tireless efforts to v e rify
the facts w h ich h ad gon e before, she d id n o t a t
once run throu gh them a n d m ake sure o f h er
ground, sim ply passes com prehension. O n c e
again, at the eleventh h ou r, she b elieved h erself
to be witnessing the o rigin al p h en om en a in fu ll
force, yet, to use h er ow n w ords, she “ in stan tly
decided to keep to m y p lan o f go in g straigh t o u t
by the lane, and once outside th e lan e, things
became natural again ” .
There is a footnote u n d er this description
(page 108) referring to th e g a te pillars, w h ich
Miss Jourdain tells us “ w ere stan d in g stead y”
73
74 t h e m y s t e r y of Versailles
during the miraculous “ melting away” of the
gates between them. It records that the pillars
were old and probably had not been renewed
since their original erection. She had just passed
the closed gates, and turned her eyes ahead again.
Turning round suddenly, having advanced oppo­
site the open ones, in the mood which possessed
her, they appeared to be the first ones with fa
gates removed and, having more prominent side
pillars than the first, lent themselves more readily
to the deception and left the impression recorded.
I re-acted this scene myself, simulating as far
as possible her mood and attitude, and the
whole incident suddenly became clear to me.
The rest was sheer fright.
Incidentally, the scientific-minded might note
that in just such manner, with almost unlimited
acceleration, the modem cine-camera would be
used to provide a conscious illusion of dis­
appearing gates, passing first a closed gate before
the eyes, and following it with an interval by a
similar open one.
The interval was provided by the lady turning
her head away momentarily— the focus— by her
change of position in the meantime and the
element of deception, present in all moving-
pictures, by her admittedly strange mood.
C H A P T E R V I I
T H E G U A R D S
The second event of importance recorded in the
original statements made by the authors was
their meeting with the two gardeners, of whom
they asked directions. These two persons are
later referred to as guards, though they were
taken for gardeners in the first instance.
R eferring to th e 1901 statem ents, w e h a v e
respectively the follow in g w o rd in g in relatio n to
this incident :
Miss M o b erly : “ T h e re w ere th ree p ath s in
front o f us, an d as w e saw tw o m en a little
ahead on the centre one, w e follow ed it a n d
asked them the w ay. A fterw ard s w e spoke o f
them as gardeners, because w e rem em b ered a
w heelbarrow o f som e kin d close b y an d th e look
o f a pointed spade.55
Miss J ou rd ain : “ T h e re w ere tw o m en th ere
in official dress (greenish in co lo u r), w ith som e­
thing in th eir hands, it m igh t h a ve been a staff.
A w heelbarrow an d som e oth er gard en in g tools
were near th em .”
N ow , the authors h ave fixed th e p o in t o f this
m eeting som e tw en ty or th irty feet farth er b a ck
in the course o f the w alk th an I am p rep ared to
75
concede. There is evidence that it took place at
a point opposite the front of the present gardener’s
cottage, and not alongside the wall opposite th
e
reservoir, as they believe. As the reader w
ill
have gathered, I freely admit the encounter, and
that the persons in question were actually
gardeners working, or in attendance on work, in
the immediate vicinity. I f this assumption is
correct it supports a later contention that th
e
woman and child seen by Miss Jourdain in a
doorway were in fact standing in the doorway of
the cottage itself, and not in that of a non­
existent cottage which had to be found in th
e
ancient maps and located alongside what is now
a blank wall.
“ It was not until we reached the crest of the
rising ground where there was a garden that I began
to feel that we had lost our way. . • • There
were two men there.5
5
Now, I have carefully examined the ground at
this point on several occasions, and find it quite
impossible to see how the men could have been
encountered on the spot indicated later by the
authors.
Firstly, Miss Jourdain speaks of the crest of
the rising ground, whereas the traditional spot
would necessarily be well behind the crest, and
on a steepish hillside ; and secondly, the garden
does not come into view until the crest is reached.
Also we have Miss Moberley’s statement,
“ There were paths in front of us5
5
, which fixes the
spot at a point over the actual crest of the hill
76 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
from w hich alone it is possible to see any paths
at all.
Curiously enough, in August 1937 I m yself
found two gardeners w orking at this spot— a very
natural sort o f local centre for workm en in the
vicinity, as it is close to the cottage and accessible
to all parts o f the English garden, near the tool
supplies, and the entrances to the gardeners’
enclosure.
Both statem ents record having asked the w ay,
whilst Miss Jourdain mentions having repeated
the question and received the same reply,
“ Straight on” , in a m anner w hich she describes as
“ casual and m echanical” , or scarcely in accord­
ance w ith w h at one would expect from men
suddenly confronted b y two wom en from another
and distant w orld l
N ow , the directions these m en gave them are
very im portant in the ligh t o f subsequent events,
and should be particularly noticed. From this
spot the direction “ straight on” is singularly
am biguous, and there is no question that the
gardeners realised this a few moments later,
w hen th ey saw the ladies aimlessly wandering
dow n a p ath w hich w ould have led them direct
to the Hameau, had they not sent a young man
running after them to put them r ig h t!
I am not impressed w ith the detailed descrip­
tion o f these tw o m en which comes to light only
d u ring the research portion o f Miss M oberly’s
book. T h e original statements describe them as
gardeners, and m eeting them evoked no special
THE GUARDS 77
curiosity at the time. This was to come after­
wards, like most of the observations bearing on
the mystical elements involved.
In spite of the accurate description of the green
uniforms worn by these men which both the
authors subscribe to later, it seems very curious
that at the time it did not seem in any way odd
that gardeners should be so equipped. They
were accepted as gardeners, even up to the
belated statements of November 1901, though in
this record Miss Jourdain does use the expression
“greenish in colour” .
Later they become “guards, dignified officials” ,
etc., whilst staves instead o f spades are added
during the research references.
The way in which details are enumerated,
both in this and other instances, long after the
original memoranda, is a characteristic of the
whole story, and must not be ignored.
Painstaking research, not unnaturally, elicited
that two guards would have been on duty, or
about the place, on October 5th, 1789. Even
their names were noted, the brothers Bersy, and
that they would have been dressed in green
uniforms was also confirmed from contemporary
records (p. 71). But surely the Trianon must
have been duly guarded during the Queen’s
residence, and there could not have been less
than two available for that part of the garden,
whilst even the authors admit that there were
three brothers doing that duty at the time. It
was not, therefore, difficult to fill the roles once
78 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
THE GUARDS
the records became available— merely a matter of
selection ! Had not the Bersy brothers been
available, one feels that suitable men could have
been “ brought” from any section of the ancient
staff!
Pages 69 to 71 of An Adventure testify to the
tireless efforts put forth to verify the uniforms and
probable characteristics of the “ guards” whose
first appearance, bear in mind, gave only the
ordinary impression of gardeners, as, indeed,
gardeners they must have been.
It might also be noticed that the visit was
made in working hours. Four p.m. and the
month was August, when activity in the gardens
would be expected to be at its height. I was there
in August myself, and gardeners were in evidence
in several different quarters, including the exact
spot in question. A Frenchman, M. Sage, who
walked over this spot in 1912 after reading the
first edition of An Adventure, reports also that
almost exactly opposite the gardener’s cottage
he found four gardeners at work !
Everything, therefore, points to the fact that
not only was this the most likely spot on which
the presence of gardeners might be expected,
but that the frequence of these men assembled
for various reasons in it adds strong testimony to
the contention that this was the spot and not
the traditional one on which the encounter took
place.
That the men were gardeners seems certain,
even if “ decked out subsequendy by tricks of
79
8o
memory, after the idea of haunting had occum
n
to them” (the authors).
The Cottage, Woman, and Girl
Whilst speaking to the two men, MissJourdain
observed on her right hand a solidly built cottage
with stone steps, on which a woman in o
ld
-
fashioned dress was standing, handing something
to a girl of about thirteen or fourteen, who w
ore
a white cap and skirts nearly reaching to h
er
ankles (p. 71).
It should be noted that the statement specific­
ally records that the couple were noticed whilst
speaking to the two men, a m emory having essentially
the note o f definity and strengthened by an
association of ideas. If, therefore, our contention
as to locality holds good, the woman and girl
were standing at the doorway o f the present
gardener’s cottage, which could easily, in retro­
spect, appear as small and detached. It is
actually detached, but owing to its being built
with a frontage continuing in line with a high
wall, subsequent examination o f it might indicate
otherwise.
In their subsequent researches, assuming this
couple to have been seen in a non-existent
cottage on the now discredited site alongside
the blank wall farther down the sloping ground
opposite the reservoir, the authors came to some
remarkable conclusions..
As usual, with infinite pains, they discovered
THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
THE GUARDS 8l
that in 1789 there lived in one of the gardener’s
cottages a young girl Marion. This Marion was
located in a story by Julie Lavergne (read in
1906), and would, according to calculations,
have been fourteen years old at the time (1789).
Now, I shall, of course, hold that the persons
seen were, in fact, a woman and girl much as
described, who happened to be outside the door
of the present cottage on that August afternoon.
Why this could not have been confirmed, even
as late as six months after, is difficult to under­
stand, but instead of attempting to do so, the
usual historical explanations were at once entered
into to the exclusion of practical considerations.
Thus, whilst the contemporary evidence was
rapidly becoming less and less reliable through
the natural changes which take place in personnel,
particularly in the case of young persons, the
search for a character suited to 1789 went on
unabated.
Not unnaturally, with the mass of documents
available, a young girl was found and named
Marion, the semi-authentic character of Julie
Lavergne’s romantic story of the Trianon. Once
having placed her, the authors seemed satisfied,
and made no further recorded inquiries, though
we now know that even the position of the house
was entirely wrong.
It was fortunate for their case, though doubly
misleading, that on Mique’s map a building was
marked as having existed at or near the spot
which they took for the one on which they met
F
the gardeners, also some vague marks on the
present wall where it might have been attached.
From a close examination of this rather vague
map I am convinced that the building was not
a cottage, and the level of the ground at that
point would seem further to bear me out in this.
It would have been an odd locality to have built
one in any case, and out of keeping with the
rest of the gardeners’ menage as it is today.
This in addition to the fact that the locality
itself is so manifestly in error.
It might be as well here to note that had a
fraction of the time spent studying the National
Archives and other obscure documents been
devoted to a systematic census of the contemporary
personnel, An Adventure might well have never
been written at all. It would almost seem at
times that anyone approaching the authors with
a claim to recognition by them during the first
few years would have been told not to waste
their tim e: “ You do not interest us— you did not
live in 1789” ; “ We cannot have met you, my
friend— you are a modern man, and not he for
whom we seek” !
82 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
C H A PTE R V III
TH E KIOSK
“O n our entrance into the English garden in
1901” , Miss Moberly states (p. 72), “ we found
our path crossed by another, beyond which, in
front of us but rather to the left hand, stood a
small circular building having pillars and a low
surrounding wall. It was on rough, uneven
ground, and was overshadowed by trees.”
Following the exact route, and standing on the
spot referred to here, I recently took the greatest
care to recapture the motif of this description.
And allowing for faults in memory amounting,
admittedly, to those of over a week’s standing,
and probably much longer, I confirmed my first
opinion as to the cause of the vital mistake in
this instance.
As I stood on the spot it was possible to give a
description so like the original as to make no
material difference when the question of retro­
spective memory was duly allowed for.
A t this point the path is “ crossed by another” ,
and, as recorded, “ rather to the left hand” stands
a small circular building with a low surrounding
terrace, and walls under each of several windows,
which occupy the flat hexagonal sections into
which it is divided. The kiosk (Belvedere) has
83
84 the mystery of Versailles
not actually walls surrounding it, but the general
impression would give this idea to anyone
viewing it momentarily and trying to remember
it at a later date. It is very much “over,
shadowed by trees5’, and could be said to stand
on rough, uneven ground. It is exactly the spot
on which visitors would be tempted to stop for
rest, and in all probability sit down for a moment
on the steps, from which a view of the lake can be
obtained.
So overshadowed is the Belvedere that, except
from a distance, it is very difficult to photograph,
and unless the authors walked some distance
away in a southerly direction it is possible only
to obtain a view of less than about a quarter of
the building at once.
Whilst I was there several groups of visitors
used it as a halting-place. A group of schoolgirls
stopped to discuss further progress, and several
took photos, and a young couple actually sat
down on the steps.
The photograph I did take was obtained with
some difficulty owing to the restricted light, and
shows as much of the building as was possible
without going to a great distance and into a
locality not in any way concerned in the story.
I thought it as well to include a figure in this
view, and was obliged by a man who was
standing on the terrace at the time. I think I
have got him in the wrong place, and his attitude
is hardly that of a courtier, but he serves the
purpose, I think, and I am deeply obliged to him.
Incidentally, I hope he will never know that he
served as a model for Miss Moberly’s “ repulsive-
looking man” , as he seemed quite pleased to sit
for me, and was watched by his two admiring
offspring, who hid discreetly in the bushes at my
request!
If I had passed casually over this route and
been asked to describe the building, I should
certainly have remembered it as a small garden
kiosk or ornamental outbuilding, probably with
low walls, and certainly as much overshadowed
by trees. I should, in recalling it, almost
certainly have said it was round, though it is
actually hexagonal, and would, in all probability,
have said it had pillars from the impression caused
by the small pillars supporting the sections of
wall under each window.
This last impression would in all probability
have been very much strengthened by a composite
memory, including the Temple de 1’Amour,
which is visible to all visitors to the English
garden, and which has pillars exactly as described
by the authors. In short, a week later, if a
description had to be given by a casual observer,
the one given by the authors would almost exactly
coincide with what one would expect to obtain. And so
little doubt on the subject had entered the heads
of the couple as late as January 1901 that
Miss Jourdain passed it again on that date,
presuming without misgivings that it was, indeed,
the same building.
Y et later they were both to deny absolutely
THE KIOSK 85
that the Belvedere was “ their kiosk” , and the
longest search o f the whole investigation was
devoted to proving their belated contention.
It is interesting here to note that never at any
time did the authors claim to have seen more
than one kiosk, nor more than one rustic bridge.
There is one kiosk, and they saw one. There is
one rustic b rid ge; they walked over one.
Having, however, convinced themselves that the
scenery seen in 1901 was not that of 1789? it wa$
necessary to effect the identification relating to
the change in dates. And it is my contention
that even with all the work expended, and all
the painstaking researches, they have not effec­
tively proved this garden to have been different
in any essentials from what it is today.
The Belvedere was built in 1781? being
actually completed in M ay o f that year,* and
stood, therefore, exactly as it does at present,
with much the same arboreal setting. It has
never been altered or added to in any way, yet
to meet their case the authors had to find another
and smaller kiosk in a different situation.
The evidence which they advance to cover
this alleged difficulty represents the most tireless
and exhaustive efforts apparent in the whole
history of their researches.
They even studied the gardeners’ wages book
for the period, from which they extracted records
of proposed garden buildings, or <
£
ruines” , some •
of which may, or may not, have materialised
*Le Petit Trianon, L£on Rey.
86 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
THE KIOSK
There is reason to think that in some cases a
start was made, with subsequent alterations, and
in others the projects never reached beyond the
plan stage. They had this in their favour : at the
time in question vast sums were being spent, and
wasted, on getting the gardens exactly to the
Queen’s liking, and much activity is recorded in
schemes which were discussed, commented upon
by the King, and eventually discarded.
In his excellent illustrated book on the Trianon
recently published, M. Leon Rey gives what he
describes as a “ tableau chronologique” , setting
out in detail, even to the exact days concerned,
the history of every major undertaking and
alteration effected in the Trianon gardens from
1774 to 1789. There is no mention of any other
kiosk, though the history of the building of the
Belvedere is given in full. For example :
“ 1778* March. Commencement de la con­
struction du belvedere” ; and again : “ May 31st,
1781. Le belvedere est acheve.”
Everything of importance is referred to in this
schedule, even to the construction and completion
of minor parts of the various outbuildings and
the exact dates on which they were first used.
Would he have omitted the inclusion of an
elaborate garden-kiosk in a list which includes
every other building and even the planting of
trees and shrubs ?
The authors rely on the vaguest evidence in
support of there having been another and different
kind of kiosk in the position in which they
87
thought they first saw it. “ In 1909 two old maps
were procured from Paris; in one, dated
1849 (?) there is something which may indicate
a small round building placed on the rocher
behind the Belvedere. The other map was
reproduced from an old one in 1705. . . . In
this map below the name ‘pavilion de musique,
(the Belvedere) is the name ‘le kiosque’. It does
not seem likely that a second name for the
Belvedere should be given, and it may, therefore,
refer to something else which does not appear on
this map.”
To me it seems most likely that the two names
were used, the second description “kiosque” in
explanation to the technical personnel concerned,
that the building named Belvedere was, in fact,
a kind of kiosk.
Miss Moberly draws the far-fetched conclusion
from this dual marking that “ therefore the mere
chance name which from the first moment we
gave to our building was justified by there having
been something called by that name exacdy in
that part of the garden” . There was. And the
Belvedere was undoubtedly the building in
question.
Again, purely circumstantially, it would seem
most unlikely, having regard to the care with
which the gardens are laid out, and the attention
paid to suitable balance and studied irregularity,
that another kiosk would stand at any time so
near the Belvedere. Such an arrangement
would tend to ruin the aspect aimed at, and the
88 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
The Chapel Door (closed since about 1850J fro m which
the “Chapel Man” was alleged to have appeared in 1901,
“banging the door behind him” .
THE KIOSK
second building at such a point would be quite
superfluous, if not actually unsuitable, with so
many open and more convenient spots available.
As I have said, the wasteful and prodigal
expenditure lavished on the Trianon gardens
during the reign of Marie-Antoinette seems to
have resulted at this period in a large number o f
abandoned plans and expensive alterations. The
present rocher alongside the rustic bridge was
altered and rebuilt many times before it finally
suited its designers. This naturally gave the
authors much additional scope for what they
mistook for relevant matter, once having obtained
access to the private wages book and gardeners*
daily records.
It was all part of the reckless spending which
the Queen eventually deplored.
The Queen herself has left behind her a
reference to the immense sums which were spent
on the Trianon during the time of her residence.
“ II est possible que le Petit Trianon ait
coute des sommes immenses, peut-etre plus
que je n’aurais desire; on avait ete entraine
dans les depenses peu a peu ; du reste, je
desire, plus que personne, que l’on soit instruit
de ce qui s’y est passe.*S|S-Pr0c& de la Reine.
That much o f these sums went in abortive
schemes is obvious from the records in the
gardeners’ wages books and technical records left
by Mique and others, in themselves most in­
teresting historically, if wrongly applied.
89
THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
90
This section o f th e researches incidentally
would be o f incalculable value to an author
dealing w ith certain aspects o f th e Queen’s life.
And it is doubtful whether any writer, even in an
effort to stress this very prominent aspect of her
final unpopularity, has found himself in possession
ofdetail even h a lfso precise or well authenticated.
The authors o f An Adventure were rarely
satisfied with recorded data, but went always to
the earliest and most original documents for their
facts. Where less well-supported data is quoted,
or circumstantial evidence relied upon, it is
always clearly indicated as such. Their trans­
parent honesty can never be questioned.
CH APTER IX
THE RUNNING MAN
In the 1901 statement Miss Moberly describes
this incident as follows :
“ It was a great relief at this moment to hear
someone running up to us in breathless haste.
Connecting the sound with the gardeners
[N O TICE!—-
j.r.s.w .], I turned and ascer­
tained that there was no one on the paths,
either to the side or behind ; but at almost the
same moment I suddenly perceived another
man quite close to us, behind and rather to
the left hand, who had, apparently, just come
either over or through the rock (or whatever it
was) that shut out the view at the junction of
the paths. The suddenness of his appearance
was something of a shock.
“ The second man was distinctly a gentle­
man ; his face was glowing red as through
exertion. . . . He looked greatly excited as he
called to u s : ‘Mesdames! Mesdames! II ne
faut pas passes par la.’ He then waved his
arm, and said, with great animation: ‘Par
id . . . cherchez la maison.’ I looked at him
again, and to this he responded with a little
backward movement and a most peculiar
smile.”
9*
Now, with the exception of a few remarks
describing his dress, this statement may be taken
as exactly what occurred, or appeared to occur.
And before going any further, does it not pretty
fairly present a picture of the sudden appearance
of a third gardener, or someone connected with
the other two gardeners, who had been sent on
to put the ladies on the right track after seeing
that they were completely lost as a result of the
rather lazy and ambiguous directions contained
in their“ straight on5
5instructions ofa few minutes
earlier? The point at which they encountered
this second man is fixed in my opinion almost to
an inch, by the reference to the kiosk alongside
which they were standing, and from which three
very dark and winding paths diverge. The
“ very peculiar smile” would be quite natural to
someone who had run forward and found two
people hopelessly lost in a locality which he
knew well.
The rock (“ or whatever it was” ), which in
later mention becomes “ an isolated rock”
(undoubtedly a high mound of earth which still
stands at this point, overgrown with shrubs), does
very effectively “shut out the view at thejunction
of the paths” .
Further, anyone approaching it from where the
first two gardeners were standing would have to
do so by coming right roundit, from one side or the
other, and consequently, if running, would
appear at the spot almost instantaneously. /
Whilst I was standing on this spot recently
92 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
weighing up the position from every possible
angle, I heard running footsteps myself, but, like
the authors also, could see no one. Suddenly,
with a skid of slipping feet, a small schoolgirl
appeared from behind the mound, nearly knock­
ing me down with a scooter she was pushing !
I was grateful for the intrusion, for a more
perfect and unpremeditated example of what
must have occurred could scarcely be imagined.
And although I had already formed my own
picture of the occurrence, it was quite surprising
how suddenly the child appeared, “ as if from
nowhere” .
Now, in my opinion, as stated elsewhere, this
incident constituted the beginning of the whole
strange illusion.
It evoked no special comment at the time, but
viewed in retrospect lent itself to speculations
which were destined to grow into something so
mysterious as to give rise to the very mystery
itself. Obviously, once the idea of a sudden and
miraculous appearance had occurred to the
authors, and in the absence of the local setting
(which was not revisited until four years later),
the true explanations of the sudden appearance
could never be appreciated. The mysterious
elements would be exaggerated and made, later,
to fit the circumstances of what they became to
believe to be the case until, later on, we have
Miss M oberly describing the miraculous way in
which the man’s feet first touched the ground,
“ with a flicker of adjustment” , though no hint of
THE RUNNING MAN 93
94 the mystery of Versailles
any such impression finds its way into the
original statements.
T o me the illusion which owes its birth to this
incident is overwhelmingly impressive, so certain
am I that it formed the central and primary
m otif for the whole story. If in the present
century two highly intelligent women could so
shape the event as to build upon it a structure
sound enough to deceive several at least of the
greatest intellects o f our time, how much of
history can still command our trust ? But this is
digressing.
It must also be remembered that by the time
the authors were able to return to the spot, when
the true nature of the locality could have been
examined and the probable cause of the sudden
appearance properly estimated, they had long
since come to believe that they were in some quite
different place at the time. Though even in
spite of this one feels that a careful survey of the
ground— inch by inch, so to speak— would have
served to recall it. The new picture of the whole
area had, however, by 1904 become to them a
fixed “ memory5
5
, and it is possible that the
dismissal of an imagined scene, particularly after
years of concentration on it, would be more
difficult by then than a logical mental correction
of the original impression.
Never once, as far as we know, did the authors
attempt to overthrow their new conviction, even
as an assumption, in order to test out the theory
on rational grounds, nor indeed to afford the
roacn to tne subject winch precludes one trom
using them of sheer obstinacy in this direction,
he conclusions at which they eventually
ved in connection with the “ running man”
)lve a story of 1789, with some claim to
henticity, the dramatic beauty of which is
f sn im n rp scn /p c»c tn AKopnr® ioona
The story as related can be made to suit th
e
case fairly well if the obvious objections are
ignored. We are told that on receiving the
message the Queen suggested walking back to
the Palace through the woods, and was d
is­
couraged by the messenger, who indicated that
she should return to the house (Trianon) to await
her carriage. In this incident the authors seem
to see some inexplicable parallel with the man’s
urgent injunction to “cherchez la maison”, w
hich
remark, incidentally, could never have applied
in the historic case, being both disrespectful and
entirely irrelevant.
On the other hand, the contemporary figure
sent forward by the two gardeners would have
used exactly this expression, knowing that by
turning to the right the house itself would
immediately come into view. And having
regard to the nature of the paths and obstructions
at this point, it would be almost the only possible
way of giving clear directions in a few words.
The issue is further complicated by the fact
that, as far as can be ascertained, using negative
evidence of unquestionable value the Queen’s
grotto was never situated anywhere in the
locality concerned, but some considerable dis­
tance away, behind the Belvedere.
Much attention is later given to the accent
used by the running man in giving his directions
in French.
It is difficult to imagine anyone remembering
an accent in a foreign language a week later,
9 6 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
but even had they done so the fact that it
appeared to have an Austrian inflection seems to
prove little, and rather exemplifies the lengths
to which the authors went on matters of detail in
supporting their contentions.
O f the description of the man’s clothes, there
is little we can say at this distance, but remember­
ing the discrepancy in the original documents
with regard to Miss Jourdain’s mention of his
buckled shoes, it would seem likely that our
observations in respect of the two gardeners
would equally apply : “ decked out by tricks of
memory to represent historical characters” .
Miss Jourdain remarks that “ the man ran off
with a curious smile on his face . . . the running
ceased as abruptly as it had begun, not far from
where we stood” . Once having rounded the
mound of earth, this is exactly the impression
his rapid departure would convey.
Now, the incident of the “ running man”
cannot well be fully investigated without further
reference to the grotto, or “ grotte” , in or near
which the Queen was said to have been sitting
at the time of her hurried summons.
All the various detailed references to the
appearance of the grotto at the time, with their
mention of the stream, the fallen leaves, etc.
(Madame Lavergne), can have no connection
with the point at which I claim the running man
was encountered. And the authors would, of
course (for a different reason), make no attempt
to associate the details in question with the
G
THE RUNNING MAN 97
junction of the paths close by the Belvedere
They must therefore be considered only as
referring to the ancient grotto lying to the east
of the Escargot hill, and on the opposite side to
the Belvedere from the point we are dealing with.
I cannot find one scrap of real evidence that
there ever existed an artificial grotto at any other
than the traditional position against the Escargot
hill. There may have been projects, but nothing
which materialised sufficiently ~to be worthy of
record in accredited histories of the place.
In Leon Rey’s book there is a sketch of the
Queen’s grotto, a dark passage under artificial
rocks, in many ways strongly suggesting the
present rocher, but larger and probably more
elaborately constructed. We know this was
finally levelled by Louis Philippe, probably on
account of the difficulty in keeping it working
properly with its elaborate irrigation system and
artificial waterfalls. Everyone in authority at
once points out the site on which it stood, and no
question is ever encountered as to doubts in the
matter. The Queen’s grotto was a well-known
piece of extravagance at the time, and is men­
tioned in revolutionary literature.
In his tableau chronologique M. Leon Rey
gives the following data : On July ist, 1780, the
construction of the grotto was commenced, and
it was probably finished towards the end of
August. The Belvedere was at that time also
under construction near by, but, owing to the
elaborate sculpture and interior decorations,
98 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
took considerably longer, not being finished
until May 31st, 1781. The rocher had been
started in August 1779 and finished after many
alterations in 1782, so that these three major
operations were in progress at the same time.
It seems, therefore, inconceivable that with
such detail as this available for these items,
further grottos in a different position should have
somehow completely escaped mention. Neither
is there any mention of anything else of the kind
in the whole chronological list from 1774 to 1789,
in spite of the very small items which figure
therein.
There seems no question to doubt that in
studying the gardeners’ wages book the authors
have seized upon a lot of totally irrelevant matter
to support their beliefs, most of it never intended
for further study by anyone, and grossly mis­
leading.
Imagine, in this connection, examining the
whole contents of a drawing-office, unearthed
after many years from the debris of a factory
explosion. If, for instance, at the time of the
disaster a new type of air-liner was being pro­
jected, and all the original draft plans, rough
sketches, suggestions for fittings, etc., etc., were
found and examined, I venture to suggest that
the most amazing monstrosity could be thereby
reconstructed. For in such cases far more
drawings are produced than ever reach the
workshops themselves. The most odd ideas are
considered, sketched out and abandoned, though
t h e r u n n in g m a n 99
probably not actually destroyed until all is
completed.
There is evidence also that in several cases the
authors have noted and even mentioned projects
which are now known to have been abandoned,
in order to strengthen this part of their story.
Taken separately, they are not impressive, but
lumped together, so to speak, they make a fairly
formidable contribution.
Miss Jourdain’s stubborn confidence in this
matter is worthy o f note. Miss Olivier, in her
preface, uses this to the authors’ strong
advantage, though, o f course, I cannot see it so.
“ In the wrong place” , “ it is amusing to read this
confident comment on the old maps” . It is
. . . but rather pathetic !
“ The map we found this morning at the
archives at Versailles, and the one of Contant de
la Motte, give the grotto in the wrongplace” , states
MissJourdain in one of her letters. Yet when the
evidence suited her I venture to suggest that
these very same maps and documents were called
to very good account. The old map must have
been wrong, and, therefore, of no further use . . .
“ but the papers I found in Paris seem to point the
other way” — her way ?
In 1904 Miss Moberly asked to be shown the
traditional grotto, and was taken to one on the
farther side of the Belvedere “ near the hill called
l’Escargot” , which was formed in 1781. “ We
felt sure that this could not have been either of the
two grottos mentioned in the archives.” And
100 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
here I think she was right, but to little purpose,
as the grottos mentioned in the archives never
materialised.
It is interesting to notice that all the extracts
from the archives relating to grottos and similar
works— several referred to as “ projets” — are dated
some time before the authentic record of the
building of the actual Queen’s grotto, as though,
after considering the various schemes, they were
eventually abandoned in favour of the one on the
Escargot site.
That the Queen’s grotto was a most elaborate
structure is at once apparent from the remarks of
all who mention it. It was built up of rocks
specially imported for the purpose, and water was
laid on at various points to supply artificial
cascades and miniature streams. Many of the
old control taps can still be seen almost buried in
the ground between this site and the reservoir.
Miss Moberly’s suggestion that these same rocks
were used later to build the rocher cannot be
true, as we know this to have been completed
some years before 1789. It is a separate structure,
designed and carried out to a definite scheme, as
we shall see later.
“ In 1780, August, masses of rock were pro­
cured, and the petite rivi&re began, and also a
hill was thrown up pour couvrir la grotte” (p. 81).
Exactly ! We have this confirmed already in
Leon Rey’s schedule. “ The Queen’s grotto at
1’Escargot.”
THE RUNNING MAN 101
CHAPTER X
T H E M AN B Y T H E KIOSK
O n their first visit the authors describe having
seen a dark-complexioned man, marked by small-
pox, sitting close to the kiosk, wearing a large
dark cloak and slouch hat.
“ There might be nothing surprising in what
we saw if the kiosk could be found” , remarb
Miss Moberly (p. 75), and since we are now in a
position to state that the kiosk certainly has been
found, and was, in fact, the Belvedere, there will
not be very much more that we can say on this
incident.
As pointed out elsewhere, it became necessary
to the case that a dark-complexioned man with
pock-marked features should be located amongst
the possible inhabitants of the Trianon in 1789,
and the comte de Vaudreuil was eventually
allocated to fill the role. The author rather
weakens her case, even in this instance, by remark­
ing that at one time this man was one of the
Queen’s innermost circle, but had in 1784
acted an enemy’s part in persuading her to act
in a politically dangerous play. It was not
difficult to find reference to people whose faces
were disfigured by smallpox in 1789, as this
disease had been raging for years in and around
102
Paris, many of the Court personnel being known
to have contracted it.
There are always a large number of very dark-
complexioned people to be seen in Paris, and the
man who obliged me by posing for his photo on
the Belvedere steps was an example of the type.
That a similar visitor occupied this position on
August 10th, 1901, now seems certain, and in
view of the little importance even the authors
attach to the incident, there seems little further
that one can say in the matter.
Again, the question of the man’s strange clothes,
though in this instance described with much less
detail, seems only to call for the usual comment
which need not be repeated.
t h e m a n b y t h e k io sk 103
Bridge Over Little Cascade
It has been impossible in making a full analysis
of the evidence to avoid a certain amount o f
repetition, owing to the way in which the authors
have thought fit to consolidate their case. In
doing so they have been compelled to rely on
many interdependent facts which precludes their
being divided sharply for consideration as
separate items.
This applies particularly to the question of the
rustic bridge, or the “ bridge over the litde
cascade” , which they held to have been an
ancient structure occupying some part of the
Queen’s grotto in a situation which we can now
no longer allow— namely, between the large lake
and the theatre, or just to the western side of the
present rocher.
A t a risk of repetition, therefore, I propose to
examine this part of the evidence somewhat
closely.
In Chapter III we considered a number of
aspects of this particular section of the walk and
came to the conclusion that, even after a critical
examination of the original evidence, it was
obvious that the bridge in question was the
present rocher bridge. The descriptions, it will
be remembered, allowing for memory faults, tally
very fairly with what one would have expected
them to relate, with the exception of one point,
“ the tiny thread-like cascade” , which Miss
Moberly describes as having been passed so near
that she could have touched it with her right
hand.
Now, for a Jong time this gave me much trouble,
as I felt it unlikely that such an accurate picture
could have been retained without some cause.
It might have been that the impression was built
up of composite data in retrospect— the cascade
itself an exaggeration of the damp, dripping
aspect of the rock linked with the memory of
other waterfalls in the grounds; but I was not
too satisfied as to this, and resolved to prpbe
deeper.
I made a special visit to the Trianon with a
view to further study of this and other problems;
and with success, I am now convinced that the
104 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
rock has yielded its secret, though not without
much trouble and some risk.
I arrived at the Trianon in the early afternoon
and went straight to the rocher in the hope of
obtaining photographs before the light became
too weak. Several of these I was able to take,
and two are successful, though photography is
very difficult anywhere in the vicinity, owing to
the overshadowing trees.
Having done so, I commenced a minute study
of the bridge and rock itself, determined to find,
if possible, how the idea of “ a little cascade”
came to materialise in 1901. There is a thin
trickle of water over stones below the bridge,
referred to by Miss Jourdain (I suggest rather
unwillingly) in the published portion of her
statement (Chapter III, Pathetic Illusion), and
this, I felt, might easily have supplied the element
in the retrospective picture under consideration.
But I was still dissatisfied.
I suddenly noticed that at the base of the rock,
so placed as to be visible to people on the bridge,
were two or three irregular stone pockets, or
pools, obviously either intended for the growth
of ferns and rock-plants or to form intermediate
rock pools to catch a water-supply the source of
which was not apparent. As the rock stands up
straight on fairly high ground, no natural stream
could ever flow over it, and with the exception of
intermittent dripping after rain I could not see
how ever anything in the nature of a cascade
could have issued from any part of it. Yet
THE MAN BY THE KIOSK IO 5
certain narrow crevices bore the appearance o
f
having had water running over them, and th
e
re
was one of these, very natural in appearance
over each of the little basins.
Failing to find any possible water-supply fro^
the bridge or ground-level, I decided to climb the
rock, which was precipitous and slippery after a
w et week-end.
A t some risk (incidentally, the problem of
getting up was nothing to that of getting down
again) I scaled the rock from the back, and sat
for a moment to regain my breath. At first,
nothing. . . . I was about to descend when I
noticed an old pipe, cut off short, at the very
highest point, and quite invisible from any other
viewpoint than the one I then occupied. It had
its end turned down over some ivy, below which I
found a cunningly concealed lead tank half full
o f water ! Further, scratching amongst the ivy
revealed three other hidden tanks and the
remains of more piping. So the rocher had
been fitted at one time with a concealed water-
supply !
Now, this was a considerable find, though not
in any way conclusive, as there was no means of
finding exactly how and where the water was
allowed to run when the system was in working
order, and as the pipes leading to the tanks had
been cut off short it was impossible to experiment
in any way.
Whilst on top o fthe rock I scooped up with both
hands as much water as I could, and allowed
I ° 6 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
it to splash over the sides of the tank. For several
seconds the whole rock dripped water, which
found its way to almost every side through cracks
and crevices, and I came to the conclusion that
in some such way the original system had been
allowed to operate. Further close examination
revealed small holes and the remains of pipes
leading to various parts of the rock, all carefully
hidden and in most cases covered with cement.
It is clear, therefore, that the whole system
had been designed so that by turning on a water-
supply the artificial rock should be provided with
little cascades (thread-like cascades) arranged
to fall with studied naturalness into the little
moss-lined basins and away under the bridge by
concealed conduits now completely blocked up
and unrecognisable. One such basin and crevice
was situated in such a position that it could have
been touched by the right hand of anyone on
the bridge.
I found it impossible to ascertain whether or
not any part of this system had been working in
1901. The official I questioned did not even
know of its existence ! But one thing can be
noted : that as the present condition of the water-
supply is largely due to natural decay, it would
be somewhere nearer working order in 1901 than
it is today. And even if not actually working,
the tanks might well have been overflowing from
the rain which Miss Moberly tells us had fallen
the previous day, as it did when I stirred it up
by hand.
THE MAN BY THE KIOSK 10?
Now, with this information and our previous
deductions the difficulty of the cascade seems to
have been duly resolved, allowing always for
faults in memory.
Whilst on my last visit I noticed also that by
making a right turn after passing over the bridge
— and I am inclined to think the authors did this
— one has to pass through a small cavern, which
itself could only be described as a grotto. In
doing so one passes yet another of the moss-lined
basins at the foot of a (now) dry crevice.
The very comprehensive extracts from the
archives and elsewhere which the authors have
quoted describing the Queen’s grotto through
which they thought they had passed bear much
natural resemblance to my descriptions of the
rocher, with its one tiny grotto, through which
they did actually walk. This is not surprising,
as, apart from the site, there were many similari­
ties. Both had cunningly concealed water-
supplies and were constructions of rock and
stones. And though the one is now completely
destroyed, one feels that much can be learned of
it by a study of the other. To confuse the actual
rocher with a description of the Queen’s
grotto is, I think very natural, in view of the
circumstances, and one would want the most
positive proofs available before accepting the
implications concerned in the certainty of their
separate identity.
Nothing in the authors’ observations would
justify us in coming to such a conclusion.
I°8 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
C H A P TE R X I
TH E ISOLATED R O C K
It will be remembered that the authors seemed
to think that when approached by the “running
man” alongside the kiosk they were standing
by what was later described as an isolated rock.
We have already identified this as a high
mound of earth covered with trees and shrubs,
and noted that it would effectively conceal the
approach of anyone coming from the direction
of the gardener’s cottage, until they had actually
arrived at the spot.
In support of this, having in fact been an
isolated rock, Miss Moberly goes to considerable
trouble. Amongst other observations, she implies
the possibility of this rock having been broken
up or removed in sections, some of which she
tries to identify with certain isolated rocks now
lying in the small pool under the rocher.
With commendable imagination, she also notes
that a pine tree appears to be growing on one
of these, and remarks that this species of tree
was known to have been planted high up over
the Queen’s grotto to give the appearance of a
Swiss mountain (page 87). The suggestion here is,
of course, that the present pine tree now growing
109
on the rock in the rocher pool was a seedling
which adhered to it before its removal.
She also notes, and I have confirmed, that at
the side o f the piece o f rock in question is what
looks like an artificial projection, and hints that
this might have been the support of a bridge
similar to the one she thought she had crossed
in 1901.
I can see little value in these observations.
We know that the rocher was subjected to
frequent alterations before it was finally com­
pleted, and the tool-marked rock in question is
far more likely to have been a portion of some
earlier detail concerned in the construction of
the present design than that it should have
been imported from elsewhere. It stands now
in a very natural position, quite in keeping with
the rest of the structure, and is cemented in
places, to support it in the position calculated
to give it the best appearance.
Incidentally, another observation made by Miss
Moberly is disposed of at once by my discovery
ofthe old irrigation system on the top of the rocher.
She remarks (page 88) that “ a rough rock
staircase which has no meaning is attached to this
rock behind” , and at once notes that a staircase
was mentioned as having been within the grotto
(Queen’s grotto) leading up to its entrance on
the high ground on the “ montagnes” . The
implication here being, ofcourse, further evidence
that the “ vanished” grotto had been utilised for
supplies in building the rocher.
no THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
i
THE ISOLATED ROCK I I I
We now know, of course, that this “ rough rock
staircase”— which is, incidentally, hardly recog­
nisable as such— was arranged in order that some
agile attendant could at times reach the tanks in
order to clean and attend to them. It was so
designed as to look as little like a staircase as
possible, and was extremely difficult to climb,
but would serve as some sort of access on the
rare occasions when it was necessary. Naturally,
knowing nothing of the hidden tanks, Miss
Moberly would consider this vague stairway to
“have no meaning” .
“There is now no isolated rock standing up as
we saw it behind the running man— only
mounds covered with shrubs and trees. . . .
In 1788 rocks were placed in various parts,
and one is specially mentioned, piece don-
nant au bord du lac de l’ancien c6te des
rochers. . . au long du chemin de Pemplacement
de la Ruine sur la conduitte en bois a la
deuxieme source du Ravin. This would have
been the path we were on in 1901” (page
88).
But since this would equally apply to condi­
tions on the eastern side of the Belvedere, it
can have little bearing on the case in question.
In any case, it would be difficult to imagine
a reliable distinction having been drawn between
“ an isolated rock” and a high mound of earth,
long after the original visit, when the only
factor likely to have impressed the observers
would be its capacity for obscuring the view at
thejunction of the paths. Besides, it only becom
es
“an isolated rock” after considerable m
editation,
being described at first as “a rock, or w
hatever
it was” .
1 12 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
The Pelouse
“Beyond the little bridge our pathway led
under trees; it skirted a narrow meadow of
long grass, bounded on the further side by
trees, and very much overshadowed by trees
growing in it. This gave the whole place a
sombre look suggestive of dampness, and shut
out the view of the house until we were close
to it ”
This description of the next stage of the walk,
which appears in Miss Moberly’s original state­
ment, holds good in all essential respects today,
provided that she did in fact turn right at the
rocher after passing through the tiny grotto
which forms part of it, and strengthens my
conviction that she did so. In any case, it would
fairly describe the slightly more eastward route
she would otherwise have taken, which after
a few yards brings one in front of the house at
the same point.
I followed the route most carefully, with the
statement in my hand, and with the exception
of the impression that there were more trees
on the pelouse than is actually the case, the
description would be reasonably correct today.
It would be as well at this point to consider the
The Belvedere or Temple of Music. The “kiosk” of “ An H I
point at which th?"running m M ^appe^ed. ° t0graph take" fr° m the
THE ISOLATED ROCK
often affirmed statement that the grass in front
of the house grew right up to the terrace, and that
it was rough grass.
This year I noticed that the grass in this area
was cut .fairly short, presumably by some form
o f m otor lawn-mower, and when I was there it
had just been freshly run over. Assuming,
therefore, that a hand mower was used in 1901,
as there were then no motor units available, and
that it had not been cut for some days, the
impression of rough grass might easily have been
afforded. The grass is not even now of fine
quality, but like a field which has been used for
some time as a lawn.
But the m ain point in this connection is the
reference to its growing right up to the north
terrace.
M y contention is that this was never the case,
and that a path or drive has always separated
the terrace itself from the lawn in front. It is,
in any case, unlikely that the lawn would be
allowed to grow untidily up against the actual
stonework.
In M . Leon R ey’s book there is a sketch show­
ing this lawn, with the house in the background.
T h e illustration is described as from the ‘‘collec­
tion Parmentier” and “ d’apres une aquarelle ayant
appartenu a la Reine” , and clearly shows a wide
path between the terrace and the edge of the
grass. This would seem to contradict Miss
Jourdain’s information to the effect that up to
1835 the grass had grown right up to the terrace
H
” 3
as described, and there is little reason to think
that it ever did so.
In this illustration the trees surrounding the
lawn are placed much as they are today, and
there are none on the lawn itself, as Miss Moberly
seemed to think.
It is interesting to note that it was not until
1779 that the old theatre which formerly stood
on this site was finally demolished. That would
allow a maximum of ten years for any trees
which were subsequently planted thereon to
reach the maturity suggested in the impression
the authors give at the time they first saw it.
Therefore at all material times— those during
which the Queen was in occupation— the lawn
as far as we can now see has been, and must
have actually appeared, much as it is today.
I have often been surprised in reading the
details of the research that no mention was ever
made of a particularly prominent tree which
stands at the edge of the lawn near the eastern
end of the house. This is now of great age, and
spreads itself out over a very large area. Other
trees are specifically mentioned, notably the one
nearly opposite, on the site of the old “jeu de
bague” ; but this one, a Japanese specimen which
Marie-Antoinette herself planted, has escaped
attention. It can be seen in nearly all photos of
the Trianon taken from the English garden.
1 14 t h e MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
C H A P TE R X II
TH E L A D Y
If the pathetic illusion which underlies The
Adventure was due in the first place to some
twist of the imagination, caught up in a moment­
ary setting of unique advantage around the
incident of the “ running man” , it might never
have survived without the stimulating vision of
the mysterious lady. From the point in the
records at which Miss Jourdain introduced this
daring speculation, the whole amazing labour of
investigation takes on an air of new enthusiasm
and new hope. “ She might have been the
Queen herself.”
jyiost casual observers who did not take the
trouble to examine or even read the whole story
must have pictured it essentially as a vision of the
romantic Queen. Before having the story brought
before me in detail, I should have so described
it, even if dismissing it immediately as just one
more legend woven around a figure of universal
glamour.
The authors have laboured even harder and
more persistently in support of this aspect of
their speculations than of all the other details
combined, and it behoves us therefore to devote
attention to it in keeping with its special import.
We are asked to believe that on August ioth,
1901, Miss Moberly, though not Miss Jourdain,
saw Marie-Antoinette sitting against the terrace
at the Trianon, sketching. Miss Moberly could
afterwards describe her dress and appearance in
minute detail, though Miss Jourdain limits her
acquaintance with her to a feeling of presence
which she remembered afterwards when the idea
had thoroughly taken root.
T h e reader will have long since foreseen the
present writer’s belief as to the real nature of
this central incident. Somewhere, if still living,
there is a lady, perhaps English— since her dress
, appeared to be in keeping w ith that o f English
tourists o f her day— who m ay even yet possess
the sketch or painting perhaps hastily executed
during that hot afternoon at Versailles. I would
dearly love to have that picture, for whatever its
character— a few brief lines— an uncompleted
outline— suggestions o f a tree-trunk— it is the
work of a queen ! A queen who lived for eleven
years in the hearts and memories o f her devoted
creators, and on in the pages o f history for a
further two decades.
Miss M oberly’s original account o f this incident
runs as follows :
“ There was a terrace round the north and west
sides of the house, and on the rough grass, which
grew right up to it, a lady was sitting, holding
out a paper as though to look at it from aims’
I l6 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
THE LADY
length. I supposed her to be sketching, and to
have brought her own camp-stool. It seemed as
though she must be making a study o f trees,
for they grew close in front 9f her, and there
seemed to be nothing else to sketch. She saw
us, and when we passed close by on her left
hand she turned and looked full at us. It was
not a young face, and (though rather pretty) it
did not attract me. She had on a shady white
hat perched on a good deal of fair hair that
fluffed round her forehead. Her light summer
dress was arranged on her shoulders in hand­
kerchief fashion, and there was a litde line of
either green or gold near the edge of the hand­
kerchief, which showed me it was over, not
tucked into, her bodice, which was cut low.
Her dress was long-waisted, with a good deal o f
fullness in the skirt, which seemed to be short.
thoughtshe was a tourist' [?], but that her dress
was old-fashioned and rather unusual— though
people were wearing fichu bodices that summer
— I looked straight at her ; but some indescrib­
able feeling made me turn away, annoyed at
her being there.”
This description was first recorded three
months after the incident. “ I thought she was a
tourist.”
I have read and re-read this passage m any
times, trying to visualise the writers’ impressions,
and have come to the conclusion that they are es­
sentially synthetic. One would almost expect after
117
the first “ brief” details that the lady’s chest and
waist measurements were to follow, with notes
on the quality of materials ! And yet Miss
Jourdain never ^even saw her— a fact which, to
the authors, seemed to have the greatest signi­
ficance and to me only goes to show how
ordinary and natural the encounter must really
have appeared to both.
When I was at the Trianon this year I counted
no less than five persons either sketching or
painting, two at the house itself and three at the
Hameau, and photographers, who are always
very much in evidence now, would be fewer
at the beginning of the century.
There seems litde doubt that in recalling the
exact position of the sketching tourist the
authors have blundered considerably, and in
doing so have introduced another element of
topographical error which strengthens the illu­
sion of changed scenery.
According to Miss Moberly, she was sitting
against the terrace opposite the western end of
the house, approximately opposite the end win­
dow. They walked up to her, leaving her slightly
on the left hand as they passed up the steps to
the terrace, from whence they saw her again
from behind, “ and noticed her fichu had become
pale green” .
Now, Miss Jourdain insists that the steps she
went up were not the present ones leading from
the corner of the French garden, and she had
gone to immense trouble in trying to find evidence
I l8 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
THE LADY
of different steps, leading directly up from the
English garden, which she considers were the
ones used in 1901. I cannot see the slightest
reason for this observation.
Reference to the conditions at this point known
to have been existing in 1789 only complicates
the issue still further, since at that time, owing
to the existence of the “jeu de bague’5 (long since
removed), there was no access to the terrace
except by the present central steps, to which
the authors never refer. They are convinced
that they used steps which were located some­
where between the central flight and the present
ones from the French garden, when to me it
seems obvious that it was the latter up which
they actually did ascend.
Miss Moberly still further complicates this
involved issue by suggesting that as the “jeu de
bague” was in position in 1789 it accounted for
her inability to see the chapel, or anything of
the French garden, until she actually reached
the terrace. But as the contemporary pictures
of this structure show it to have been joined to
the terrace by a high wall, and with no steps
anywhere near it, this only confounds the issue
still further. Moreover, in making this suggestion
she implies that, with all her keen appreciation
of detail, she could not remember the appearance
of this unusual and striking building, w hich was
an odd structure of Chinese design, having a
sort of roundabout in front of it on w hich the
Queen and her friends used to amuse themselves.
119
The idea of this building seems never to have
occurred to her until she had read of it in histori­
cal records of the place.
There seems little doubt to my mind that the
sketching tourist was sitting against the extended
wall which gives the authors so much trouble,
and considerably farther to the westward than
they placed her afterwards, when the rest of the
description becomes much more in keeping with
the probable facts.
It was 4 p.m. in the afternoon, and at that
time in summer the spot I have in mind is
comfortably shaded, and generally it is a spot
at which anyone provided with a camp-stool
would be tempted to rest. Further, a stranger
approaching the house from the front would
instantly see that there was no door on that
side, and would tend to seek access to the terrace
at a point nearest the western side, where there
would more likely be an opening to the main
entrance. In doing so they would take the
present French garden steps which are just
round the end of the extended wall, which would
hardly be noticed by a newcomer— especially if
someone was sitting against it tending to shorten
its apparent length.
The whole confusion regarding these steps
seems to have arisen as a result of Miss Moberly’s
inability to recall the wall and the few steps
round the end of it which had to be negotiated
to reach the stone staircase, and as far as I can
see any effort to refer this difference to the
120 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
THE LADY 121
conditions of 1789 makes the whole thing far
more difficult. None of the ancient conditions
in any way coincide with her 1901 memory,
whereas with only the slightest fault in her
memory of them they meet the present condi­
tions admirably.
A glance at the picture in M. Leon Rey’s
book makes this doubly clear, for with the
ancient “jeu de bague” in situ, the topographical
details described in the original statements
become completely meaningless. I feel sure that
the authors cannot have seen a contemporary
illustration of the “jeu de bague” or they would
have hesitated before even suggesting its existence
at the time in support of this incident.
In any event, having once entertained the idea
of this visitor being the Queen herself, they
embarked on the usual programme of identifica­
tion, all of which appears to me to be singu­
larly unimpressive.
As in the case of all the other special points
considered, once identification with ancient con­
ditions had been embarked upon, all obvious
natural objections seem to have been totally
disregarded.
For instance, Miss Moberly ascertained that
from May 1789 to October of the same year,
owing to the strained relations between the
monarchy and the nation, visitors had been
allowed to wander about the Trianon gardens
as they liked, though not actually on the terraces
and private areas. Under such circumstances,
122 THE M YSTERY OF VERSAILLES
even if the Queen were in residence, which is
very doubtful, would she be likely to leave the
urgent privacy of her apartments to come and
sit where everyone could see her, some distance
from any easy line of retreat, on the grass in
front of the north terrace ?
I am myself almost convinced that in October
1789 the Queen was not in residence at the
Trianon at all, and if the legend of the running
messenger finding her in the grotto is true, then
she had gone there for a walk directly from the
Palace. Incidentally, Miss Moberly remarks
that on approaching die house she noticed that
all the windows were shuttered ! With the
exception of one into which they tried to look
from the west terrace. Could this have been so
if the Queen was in occupation at the time?
Although usirig the comment in my own favour,
I find it difficult to reconcile the fact with the
later account of the authors’ tour of the house
in the company of a French wedding-party,
which can hardly have taken place behind
shuttered windows.
Leon Rey, in his tableau chronologique, gives
a schedule of dates during which the Queen
was in residence at the Trianon. According to
this, the last time appears as “ 1788, from 1st to
25th of August” , whilst for the year 1789—
“ pas de sejour” . And since the dates are very
exact and regular for a period of over sixteen
years, the record would at least appear reliable.
All the available evidence therefore is most
THE LADY
unfavourable to the possibility of the Queen being
at the Trianon on the material date, a considera­
tion which, in the exuberance of their search for
less important details, the authors seem to have
overlooked.
Continuing her evidence on this count, Miss
Jourdain resorts to various contemporary inti­
mate works dealing with Marie-Antoinette and
her life at Trianon, amongst which is the Journal
de Madame Eloffe.
From this journal she implies what we can
only assume to be an actual recognition of the
dress she was wearing at the time she was “ seen”
in 1901.
“ Madame Eloffe repaired several light
washing, short skirts, and made, in July and
September, two green silk bodices, besides
many large white fichus. This agrees exactly
with the dress seen in 1901. The skirt was
not of fresh white, but was light-coloured—
slighdy yellowish.”
The journal of Madame Eloffe was not read
until seven years after the alleged apparition,
yet the exact shade of her skirt was recalled,
though at the time of the first glimpse of the
ensemble it was thought to be the dress of an
ordinary tourist! Such a feat of memory, where
the necessity for exactitude cannot have been
premeditated, simply passes understanding.
It must be remembered that there are a
123
number of independent legends surrounding the
Queen, in most of which she is said to appear,
usually seated, in various parts o f her domain.
All figures o f deep romance inspire these super­
stitions, but their very prevalence would be
calculated to stimulate the im agination o f minds
already deeply committed, in some inexplicable
manner, to a composite illusion, tangible enough
to form the basis o f An Adventure.
124 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
C H A P T E R X III
TH E JEU D E BAGU E
W e have already referred to this ancient device
which has long since disappeared from the
Trianon, having been pulled down some time
during the middle of the nineteenth century. It
would seem that at last its incongruous unsuit­
ability was realised, and the general appearance
of the north front of the house thereby im­
measurable improved.
Miss Moberly, with 1789 in mind, uses the
existence of the jeu de bague to explain what
she described as a “ barrier” obstructing the
view on her right-hand side as she approached
the house. Walking over the same ground, I
cannot see that anything other than present
aspects are required to recall this impression.
And we have already noted that, had the jeu
de bague been in its old position her description
of the appearance of things at this point would \
be hopelessly in error.
Miss Moberly remarks that, owing to this i
vague “ barrier” , “ we could see nothing but the 1
meadow on our left hand, and the house with j
its terrace in front” , but makes no reference j
to the striking and unique Chinese monstrosity
k
which would have been easily remembered by
its quaint appearance. There is a large and
shadowy tree still standing on the site of this
structure which today almost completely blocks
the view on the right-hand side of anyone taking
the course she describes, and I can see no reason
to find a substitute for it in confirmation of a
very fair remembered picture of the scene.
The authors remark that the jeu de bague was
a circular building masked by trees, though in
the illustration referred to in the last chapter it
was nothing of the sort. The jeu de bague itself
was a kind of mechanical riding-school, not
unlike a primitive roundabout, having dragons
and horses on which the players rode, playing a
game not unlike “ tent-pegging” . Around the
western side of the machine there stood a semi­
circular gallery in Chinese design, from which,
presumably, spectators watched the competi­
tions. This, with the usual prodigality character­
ising every activity at the Trianon, was joined
to the house itself by an underground passage, so
that visitors could walk the few yards between
them without getting wet in winter, whilst at a
later date an elaborate tent-like awning connec­
ted the gallery to the theatre some distance
away with the same object.
The Chapel Man
“ Whilst we were standing at the south-west
comer of the terrace above the French garden,
126 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
the door of a building at right angles to the house
suddenly opened, and a young man came out
and slammed the door behind him. He came to
us very quickly along a level. His manner was
jaunty and imperious, and he told us that the
only way to the house was by the cour d’hon-
neur. It was difficult to hear what he said.
We thought at once that we were trespassing,
and looked for some way down the terrace,
upon which he constituted himself our guide,
and with an inquisitive, amused expression went
with us a litde way down the French garden,
and showed us out into the avenue by a broad
road. There is much to say about this inci­
dent” (Miss Moberly continues, and notes) :
“ He was the second person that afternoon who
had excitedly insisted on our going one way
rather than another . . . no one has ever
stopped us since, nor can we hear of anyone
else who has been guided as we were.”
But the first instance of guidance was speci­
fically requested by the authors, when they asked
the gardeners twice how to find the house, the
running man being undoubtedly associated with
this request.
The spot on which they found themselves at
the moment in question is somewhat uniquely
embarrassing to anyone endeavouring to gain
entry to the house itself. One can look over the
wall at this point and see everyone going in and
out (as they did), but there is no apparent
THE JEU DE BAGUE 127
access to the front entrance without climbing a
very high wall with a drop of some twelve feet
on its other side. T o a stranger there is no
obvious w ay round at all, and the only possible
detour could never be found without guidance.
W e learn that the visitors were in the act of
examining an unshuttered window, and they
refer to their “ bewilderment” . There was still
chivalry in France, even in 1901, and what
could be more natural than that some young
employee, accustomed to seeing visitors “ trapped”
at this point, should run up quickly, taking the
few short steps in his stride, and, walking to them
over the remaining thirty yards of level terrace,
offer to show them the way out ?
I have spent much time on this spot, from
which the upper part of the chapel door is
visible, and the few steps up which the man
would run are quite invisible, there being no
reason for a stranger to realise their existence.
Approached suddenly from behind (they were
at the time looking at the unshuttered window),
and turning round at the sound of running foot­
steps, it would be singularly easy to imagine that
the man had come from the chapel door and,
not having seen him mount the steps, that he
had approached them on one level. The sound
of the “ banging door” , which if really remem­
bered (not in Miss Jourdain’s original statement)
would have taken place some few seconds before
the man himself was sighted, could easily
have been the sound of dropped tools, the dis-
128 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
carding of a wheelbarrow, or even the hasty
stumble up the flight o f steps.
I came to the conclusion that had I been
approached at that mom ent by someone who
had not been seen to clim b the short steps I
should certainly have described him as having
come to m e along the terrace, and at least from the
direction of the white door if that detail had
happened to fix itself in m y memory at all.
But it would seem that by the time Miss
Moberly had come to rebuild the situation in its
ancient setting, all question of trying to find a
natural solution had long since been abandoned,
and a most elaborate structure of historical detail
is offered to cover the occurrence.
Not unnaturally, with so many first-hand
records at her disposal, Miss Jourdain was able
to obtain the nam e o f the Queen’s concierge,
who, again not unnaturally, was found to live
in rooms at the back o f the chapel. From this
it was presumed that the man concerned had
been working in a loft which has a window over­
looking the terrace, and had been so alarmed at
finding strangers there as to run out at once to
safeguard the sacred precincts of the house,
whilst the Queen herself remained, presumably,
still seated against the terrace wall where the
intruders had just passed her.
As far as we know, the authors do not claim
to have noticed anything unusual about the
clothing o f the “ chapel man” , and it would
rather appear that his inclusion in the list of
THE JEU DE BAGUE 129
ghostly encounters appears somewhat late in the
story as they themselves conceived it.
In view o f these observations, it seems scarcely
necessary to examine too closely the details
which were extracted from the history of the
place, and which aim m ainly at proving how
impossible it would have been for the white
door to have been opened, or banged, by anyone
in 1901. In the first place, there has been no
internal access to this door within the living
memory of anyone. It opened at one time from
the now isolated gallery in the chapel, the stairs
to which have long since broken down and been
removed. The authors admit that to reach them
from any position in which the concierge would
have been likely to have been working would
have involved a longish journey, a climb up these
vanished stairs, and a run along the gallery, et
cetera— in any case an effort demanding great
urgency. Whereas the gardener of our theory
could have reached them in a few seconds.
But the evidence on which they base the
strongest claim concerns a fortunate find, only
half proved, that at some remote date the
terrace had been maintained on a level with
the chapel door. This information is deduced
from odd remarks and notes in the archives
elsewhere, from which it would appear that at
one time the house was connected to the kitchen
buildings (lying beyond the chapel) by a con­
tinuous ground-floor passage. It is possible that
this may have been so, or at least that the lay-out
130 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
in piea , join in g the bit ot terrace outside
apel door to die terrace b y the house.
ould have been the level way along which our
*ie to u s”
, it is, I think, m ore than probable that
vas at one tim e a ground-floor passage
le house to the kitchens, and that it m ay
Lad a flat top. B ut surely, evidence for
:e, it is easier to im agine a slightly w rong
sion o f how the m an cam e along the
than to displace him b y over a hundred
a tim e and rebuild the terrace to plans o f
oubtful character in order to ensure his
g a few yards farther on one level,
lust be rem em bered that on such details
;e the authors had the long lapse o f tim e
m ch in their favour. It is obvious that a
a such as the T rianon, w ith its several
s, and the know n extravagance o f the Im -
era, w ould suffer endless im provem ents and
ions during the period o f over one hundred
and it w ould seem only necessary to
search long enough to find confirmation for a
very wide range o f topographical and architec-
tural differences. I am myself very doubtful
about the early construction of this terrace, as,
to use the words of Miss Moberly’s friend, the
French colonel, the present arrangement is “bien
symetrique” . Also the description of the covered
passage, with the covered way, through which
the Queen could walk to the chapel was only
hearsay, gathered from someone who showed
the authors through the chapel courtyard.
I think there have certainly been alterations
made at this point at some time or other, but
fail to see how such an exact reconstruction can
be justified from the sources of information avail­
able. In any case, the evidence is only faintly
relevant in view of all the other considerations
surrounding the alleged incident, but in fairness
to the authors it must be included.
“ We did not lose sight of the man when he
came to us” , Miss Moberly notes, implying, of
course, that they did not see him descend the
steps from the chapel door and remount the ones
to the terrace. But it seems certain to me that
they did not see him at all until he had reached
the terrace, after which he would approach them
on the level as described.
Why also does not Leon Rey mention this
covered passage and the covered way to the
chapel, when both the underground way to the
jeu de bague and even the tent-like awning to
the theatre are specially referred to ?
132 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
“The road from the garden to the avenue
(through which the man ushered us) was not
far from the chapel, and was broad enough
to admit a coach. The present one is narrower
and farther to the west.”
I cannot agree with this observation and its
alleged confirmation, and hold, after careful
examination, that the authors were led out by
passing down the French garden and through
the present opening.
Confirmation of this last change in the scenery
and buildings is sought in two directions, both of
which appear very unreliable.
In the first place, Mique’s map shows some­
what vaguely what might have been an opening
rather nearer the chapel than the present one,
though this does not appear to be open at its
inner end, but closed by a wall. Whereas in
the same map the present opening is shown to be
open at both ends and much as it is today. A
close examination of this map seems also to
show the same wall which at present covers the
outer end of the existing opening, though not
the small door in it through which one has to
pass. The authors have seized on the very doubt­
ful impression of a second opening or carriage­
way to meet their case, with scanty justification.
Further researches on the spot convinced the
authors that they had found the remains of the
second opening, and they mention a change in
direction of the paving-stones at the point in
THE JEU DE BAGTJE 133
question, im plying the one-time existence of a
carriage-drive. Miss M oberly also refers to “ the
jam b o f an old opening still projecting from the
building” . I searched long and thoroughly for
both o f these features but could find nothing.
Neither can I see the slightest trace o f “ the marks
of an opening o f some sort” on the avenue side.
Nor do I consider any further confirmation
necessary on so indefinite an impression. “ The
road from the garden to the avenue was not far
from the chapel.” Neither is the present one.
“ It was wide enough to admit a coach.” The
width of the present opening is over twelve feet,
but no coach could now enter it, owing to its
being closed at one end except for an ordinary
door. Possibly quite a recent feature.
Also, had the authors emerged into the avenue
by the imagined nearer opening, a further
statement at once becomes contradictory. “ We
came out sufficiently near the first lane we had
been in to make me wonder why the garden
officials had not directed us back instead of
telling us to go forward.” Even the present
opening would make this rather an exaggeration,
and an impossible observation had they emerged
into the avenue still farther to the eastward.
134 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
CH APTER X IV
THE TWO LABOURERS WITH A CART
Miss M o be r ly recalls that on her second visit,
in January 1902, Miss Jourdain saw in a field
near the Hameau two labourers, in brown tunics
and bright-coloured short capes, loading a cart
with sticks. The capes hardly came below their
shoulders, and had hoods ; one was bright blue
and the other red.
These men were presumed to be apparitions,
and the evidence supporting this is based on
the following observations from the archives :
“ In 1906 we discovered that the tunic and
short cape were worn by the bourgeoisie in the
fourteenth century”
“ In 1908 we had ‘proof5 that artisans were
wearing them in the eighteenth century, and
that some of the men at the Trianon in 1776 had
‘hardes de couleur5.5
5
In August 1908 Miss Moberly learned from
a gardener that “ carts of the present day in
France had scarcely altered at all in type, and
that the two now used at Trianon . . . were of
the old pattern.5
5
It would seem hardly necessary to comment
further on the above observations, which I leave
135
to the consideration of the reader as they stand
Were these men ghosts or contemporary
labourers using one of the present-day carts ? ^
The T a ll Gardener
Miss Jourdain (during her walk in 1902) “then
went along the upper path, and when between
the Escargot hill and the Belvedere, she met a
very tall gardener of apparently great strength,
with long, muscular arms. She thought that,
with his long hair and grizzled, untidy beard and
general appearance, he had the look of an
Englishman rather than a Frenchman. He was
dressed in a rough knitted jersey, and a small
dark-blue round cap was set at the back of his
head. She inquired where she would find the
Queen’s grotto, and he walked a little way
beside her to show her the way.”
Now, no actual claim seems to have been
made that this man was a supernatural being,
and in view of the trivial evidence against his
being a perfecdy normal person the authors
seem to have been satisfied with a mere implica­
tion.
Their reason for giving him special mention
seems to be that he directed Miss Moberly to
what she considered was the correct site of the
Queen’s grotto, to the west side of the Belvedere
near the theatre.
As though to weaken the case for his super­
natural character, Miss Moberly points out that
136 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
tne autnors managed alter much work to extract
from the old gardeners’ wages book the name of a
man who was known at the time as “ 1’Anglais”
(probably a nickname), and, jum ping to the
conclusion that this bore direcdy on Miss
Jourdain’s vague impression of his English appear­
ance, included it as the counterpart identity in
the case.
“ We found, some years later, that this position
had been accepted as correct” (p. 106). And yet
in M. Leon Rey’s very recent book the grotto
is most definitely shown on the Escargot site,
and no reference made anywhere even in h
is
detailed schedule to its ever having been else­
where.
I strongly suspect that Miss Moberly had grave
doubts herself as to the supernatural nature of
this person, for amongst all her “points” he is
„ treated with the least degree o f finality, and
specifically as one of Miss Jourdain’s per­
quisites.
I38 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
Mique's Map
A ll th ro u gh o u t th e lo n g research th e authors
h a v e relied for to p o gra p h ic a l con firm ation on
th e an cien t m a p b y M iq u e , th e Q u e e n ’s land­
scape gardener, w h o e v en tu a lly follow ed his
ro yal mistress to the guillo tin e.
A v e ry close stu d y o f the p h o to gra p h ic repro­
duction o f this m ap has con vin ced m e th at in
d raw in g their m a n y conclusions th e y h a v e used
m ore im agin ation than could be justified. T h e
m ap is exceed in gly v a gu e as to detail, an d it is
im possible in m a n y places to distinguish w ith
certainty betw een w alls, openings, paths, and
flower-beds, etc. T h e claim to h av e located
an indication o f the Q u ee n ’s grotto on the site
behind the rocher is sim ply incom prehensible,
for this spot appears to m e, even through a
t h e t w o l a b o u r e r s w i t h a c a r t 139
microscope, exactly like all the surrounding
ground—an irregular stretch of uneven ground
interspersed with badly defined paths.
Even the recognised grotto is quite indistin­
guishable from its immediate surroundings, and
it seems unreasonable to fix anything beyond
very general dimensions in any part of the
enlarged section.
As to the openings through the kitchen
buildings, beyond the fact that some sort of
second opening (now no longer there) is vaguely
indicated, nothing at all can be gathered as to
their nature or width. Actually, in the map
neither opening appears to give a passage right
through, though the one farthest from the chapel
(the present one) would be accurate today if it
included a small door on the avenue side. I am
myselfvery much of the opinion that the second
opening relied upon by the authors is not a
“through” opening at all.
The Belvedere is indicated, and also the
position of the rocher bridge, but there is nothing
to confirm the flat terrace linking the house with
the chapel, or the existence ofthe alleged covered
way to the chapel and kitchens.
Also the object which MissJourdain takes for
her vanished cottage is, I think, some other and
less important kind of building, a potting-shed
or “lean-to” outhouse,forinstance. Itsindication
on the map would seem to have influenced the
authors against the evidence of their memories
(recorded) in shifting the scene of their meeting
with the guards to a point from which I claim
to have effectually dislodged them.
Actually, the map in question is almost useless,
except as a very general guide to relative posi­
tions and approximate dimensions. It varies
hopelessly from accurate modem plans, and is
sketchy and untidy on all matters of detail.
Like all plans of the Trianon itself, it fails to
give any definite indication of the construction of
the terrace between the house and the chapel,
which is shown in every case as a conventionally
curved corner piece, matching up symmetrically
the corresponding section at the other end.
Probably the landscape gardeners of 1780, when
'the profession was in its infancy, were not skilled
cartographists, and would employ professional
architects in all matters appertaining to actual
buildings, walls, etc., confining their attention
to general effects and forestry considerations.
It seems certain that Mique’s map was never
intended for accurate surveying of a type neces­
sary to the authors in making their difficult
deductions, and far too much importance has
been placed upon its apparent revelations. It
seems, however, reasonable to suppose that it is
quite authentic in all other respects.
I have not myself seen the original, but it is
clear from the very excellent photographic
enlargement that nothing further could be de­
duced by doing so, as the microscope brings out
every detail as far as its accuracy allows.
Incidentally, the original is very valuable,
140 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
having on it a number of comments in Louis
Sixteenth’s own handwriting.
In Section IV of the Appendix to the last
edition of An Adventure Miss Moberly recounts
what she seems to consider corroborative evidence
bearing on the haunting of the Trianon and
Versailles— a most extraordinary series of hap­
penings related by an American family.
These people, Mr. and Mrs. G. and their
artist son, lived for some time in the rue Maurepas
at Versailles, and their rooms looked over the
bassin de Neptune, an ornamental comer of
the great park containing a number of statues
and artificial waters, etc. They were all three
firmly convinced that everything inside the park
was more or less haunted, and make the most
astonishing and sweeping observations, which
no one else in this well-populated street and
district seems to have been able to corroborate.
Amongst other things, they state that “ no
wind ever seemed to blow inside the park, though
other people declared that there was just as
much as outside” . Presumably the trees, which
at this point extend outside the railings, must
have been in natural motion up to an exact
dividing line, beyond which they remained
fixed and rigid ! “ Except for a very occasional
breeze. . . . It was only in 1908 that they
actually saw people they could not account for.”
I saw innumerable such people on my various
visits, but failed to attach any importance to
them. “ They asked if Miss Moberly had seen a
THE TWO LABOURERS WITH A CART I4I
cottage outside the Trianons, and she at on
described one between the canal and the avenue
which, in 1901, she had walked past but neve^
saw again.” . . . Miss Moberly had seen it
without a roof, with three bare walls and a
raised floor. Mr. C. had seen it whole, six or
seven years later, with people in old-fashioned
clothes looking out of the window ; but he could
not always see i t ! It appeared and disappeared
and reappeared in an extraordinary way.
I have seen this cottage, one of the original
gardener’s houses, and it stands amongst trees
some way back from the avenue. It is difficult
to locate, and very easy to miss when trying to
spot it from a carriage or when walking along
the avenue, as there is no means of fixing its
position amongst the trees. Its present condition
is particularly good, suggesting that it has
probably been re-roofed or renovated at least
within the last twenty years, and may well have
been noticed whilst under reconstruction. In
any case, with such a strange vision before him,
why did not Mr. G. make immediate inquiries
on the spot ?
O f course they had seen the 4
‘Queen” — all
three together— usually sitting in some part of
the grounds on a camp-stool, and dressed in the
same cream-coloured skirt in which Miss Moberly
had seen her. This skirt seems to have given her
good service. On two occasions she had been
sketching, presumably in daylight. “ They never
doubted she was ghosdy, on account of the way
142 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
t h e t w o l a b o u r e r s w i t h a c a r t 1 4 3
inwhich she appeared and disappeared, seeming
to grow out of, and retire into, the scenery with
a litde quiver of adjustment. The last point we
assured them we had specially noticed, when
the ‘running man5 first settied his feet on the
ground” (p. 116). Specially noticed, remember,
when for over a week the incident had not
caused them the slightest astonishment.
This “quiver of adjustment” appears from
time to time throughout the whole story. It is
highly suggestive, and in a way impressive, until
one remembers that in all natural parallel cases
the “quiver” is caused by the medium of vision
(cinema projector lens, or shaky binoculars, etc),
and testifies strongly to a purely subjective fault
in recognition.
There is a wine-shop somewhere in China
outside which hangs the figure of a common
soldier. Below it is a notice which reminds
customers that when this soldier looks like a
field-marshal you have had enough.
As artists, they carefully noticed the lady, and
the second time they saw her “Mr. C. was oyer-
come with such ‘terrific fatigue5 that they all
wenthome”. One wonderswhetherfordifferent
reasons our soldier would in this case have
enjoyed promotion ! There is a very thin line
dividing fatigue from many forms of neurosis,
and Mr. C. eventually had to leave Versailles
altogether owing to the “strange atmosphere”,
which everyone else found perfectly healthy.
Mr. C. also heard music coming from the
Belvedere, but did not apparently think it worth
while investigating. They heard curious hissing
sounds. One of the commonest early symptoms
of neurasthenia is the persistence of hissing and
whistling sounds in the patient’s head, accom­
panied by “ fatigue” in a multitude of various
forms, whilst the eyesight is affected as to focus
and stability in a large percentage of cases. The
impression of distant music has been experienced
at times by almost everyone in enfeebled or
fevered condition.
As far as can be gathered, these imaginative
Americans had seen almost every mysterious
happening reported in the authors’ story, includ­
ing the grass which grew up to the terrace front,
the missing steps from the English garden,
innumerable “figures” dressed in ancient cos­
tumes, and the missing cottages.
There is one paragraph of which I can make
absolutely nothing (p. 115).
Referring to the cottage between the canal
and the avenue (not actually in the Trianon
gardens themselves, but in part of the great
park), the authors state: “ Miss Moberly had
seen it without a roof, with three bare walls and
a raised floor, and she now considered that the whole
series of experiences had begunfrom the time when she
stepped up on to thefloor.”
There is no other reference which I can find
relating to her having ever been near the cottage
itself, and the conclusion above appears com­
pletely without meaning.
144 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
tgsfl
INIHN
mm»****>...*
■ "«
m m
:!is aa
11« at
as is
I aass
1 BBSS
-as ss
IBB Bi
B B B f t l
•B SB;
BB if !
• • s i
• b •§*
■ ■ *§l
w sm f<
r ?
THE TWO LABOURERS WITH A CART 145
After leaving Versailles as a home in 1909,
these Americans occasionally went back to it,
and had noticed with surprise that at those times
(which were quite normal) the Petit Trianon
had seemed smaller and more open than before,
but that the Grand Trianon seemed much larger
than when seen in eighteenth-century aspects.
This latter observation is the only rational
comment attributable to these helpful people, as
the illusion of changing dimensions in revisiting
old scenes after a lapse of time is well known to
everybody, and rather goes to indicate that a
change of domicile had benefited their mental
health.
I regard the whole story in so far as the
Am erican family are concerned as little more
than a sidelight on the peculiar mentality of its
members, particularly Mr. C., and its inclusion
quite unworthy of the otherwise formidable
creation of the authors.
CH APTER X V
A q u e e n ’s m em or y
A l t h o u g h closing her book on a note of inter­
rogation, Miss Moberly has, since early in the,
day, toyed persistently with a conception of
great beauty and pathos.
It has seemed to her that possibly on August
ioth, 1901, she and her friend had somehow
“ entered into an act of the Queen’s memory” ,
and hints that the feelings of depression and
restricted movement might have been accounted
for in this way.
August ioth, 1792, was the day on which the
Tuileries was sacked and the R oyal Fam ily escaped
to the Hall of Assembly, where they were penned
up for many hours, hearing themselves practically
deposed, and within sound of the massacre of
the Swiss guards and their servants. “ W hat
more likely, we thought, than that during those
hours in the hall of the Assembly, or in the
Conciergerie, she had gone back in such vivid
memory to other Augusts spent at Trianon that
some impress of it was im parted to the p lace?5
5
The association of this alleged m em ory w ith
the incident of the urgent messenger at the
Queen’s grotto (the running man) w ould fix this
146
memory to one o f O c to b e r 5th, 1789, and in
adm itting the theory, all the other conditions at
Trianon m ust coin cid e w ith this d ate, as indeed
we are led to believe.
Now firstly, as I have remarked before, it is
very doubtful whether the Queen was ever at
Trianon at all during 1789. But even had this
been established, the extravagant theory is
innocent of any continuity.
If, for instance, one could countenance it in
respect of the authors’ encounter with the
“running man” and follow their assumption
that the incident refers in some way to the
Queen’s legendary meeting with the hurrying
messenger at the grotto, then it becomes quite
untenable in the case of the chapel man or the
vision of the Queen herself. For to achieve these
recaptured episodes they would perforce have
had to enter the “ acts of memory” of several
different people within the space of half an hour.
Consider also the detail afforded in the authors’
descriptions of the persons encountered. Would
the Queen ever have conceived such detail in a
poignant and fleeting glimpse into the past ?
This very beautiful and pathetic conception
is the motif for an imaginative appendix to early
editions of An Adventure which, if shorn of its
impossible implications, would be worthy of
independent publication. For in her Reverie
Miss Moberly draws a picture of the last scenes
at Trianon and the dreadful days immediately
following the fall of the Tuileries with such feeling
a queen’s memory 147
and tenderness as one rarely encounters in
authentic history
It is the best thing An Adventure has to offer
and it is not included in the latest editions.
Nevertheless, the tentative “ explanation” can
have no value outside the realms o f fantasy. No
one has ever been known to enter the “ act of
mem ory” o f another, nor can the term itself be
applied other than subjectively, though even
then it would appear to be an exaggeration in
terms.
Miscellaneous Contradictions and Comments
There are a number o f minor observations
which have not properly suited me for inclusion
in the several sections dealing with specific
incidents, and which I will now consider separ­
ately.
Page 19. Miss Jourdain, whilst searching for
the site of the “ vanished kiosk” , stumbled upon
a piece of stone column still standing, on what
she considered was very near the “ right” posi­
tion. “ It cannot have been put there lately as
it was well inside the tree which was growing
round it.” She made a sketch o f it. I myself
found this stone column, still where she first saw
it, and also made a rough sketch. Arm ed with
this, I toured the whole garden looking for some­
thing which might give me a clue to its identity.
I found it at the foot of the terrace to the French
garden, where several other exactly similar short
I4 8 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
columns are placed as ornaments. The one in
question almost certainly came from that part of
the terrace which was removed when the jeu de
bague was pulled down, and there will probably
be others about the place somewhere.
Page 40. A further description of the alleged
grotto is to be found in the authors’ preface. “ It
was a narrow path, having rocks on one side,
and deeply shaded by trees, completely shutting
out any view.”
The “ rocks on one side” here is very signifi­
cant, as it is known that the Queen’s original
grotto was constructed entirely of rock, whilst
the present rocher bridge has a prominent rock
on one side only. The persistent avoidance of
any mention of the lake, which can now be
seen alongside the rocher bridge, or indeed any­
where in the description of this part of the
garden, is negatived by Miss Jourdain’s unpub­
lished original statement regarding the danger of
falling into the water. There is no other water,
other than this lake, which could possibly suggest
this imagined fall. I f they saw the lake at all the
description of the imaginary grotto at once
becomes invalid, since they insist that it was
situated behind the rocher and, owing to its
character, excluded all outside views. We have,
however, Miss Jourdain’s unpublished statement
regarding the water, which could not possibly
refer to a “ threadlike cascade” . Imagine anyone
fearing to fall into a “ threadlike cascade” ! “As
we walked, I found myself wondering”, Miss
a queen’s memory 149
Jourdain remarks, “ whether anyone had ever
stumbled over from the path into the water on our
left”
Page 41. Referring to their previous knowledge
of the Trianon, Miss M oberly remarks “ . . . and
had not even read Baedeker on the subject” .
Now, Baedeker’s guide for 1900 has little to
say beyond giving general directions and a very
brief account of the architectural features of the
Trianon, but we have it from Miss Moberly that
whilst sitting in the Palace before starting on
their walk they referred to this guide for general
directions. It took me exactly three minutes to
read the whole relevant section, and it seems
more than likely that the authors did so on that
occasion.
Page 41. We learn that “ though on the after­
noon of our first visit to the Petit Trianon there
were moments of oppression, yet we were not
asleep, nor in a trance, nor even greatly sur­
prised— astonishment came later” . This seems
to illustrate the main contention that perfectly
normal experiences were afterwards decked out
in the clothing and colour of mystery, which
deepened and consolidated itself as imagination
gave way to new “ memories” .
Page 45. Contrast this with a passage in the
original statement: “ Everything suddenly looked
unnatural, therefore unpleasant; even the trees
behind the building seemed to have become flat
and lifeless, like a wood worked in tapestry [original
italics]. There were no effects of light and shade,
150 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
and no wind stirred the trees. It was intensely
still.” But they were “ not even surprised” !
Page 58. Miss Moberly, when talking to her
brother, was asked whether the last man they
had seen (the chapel man) was a real person.
She “assured him with great amusement that we
had not the smallest doubt* as to the reality of
them all” !
Page 63. On revisiting the Trianon in 1902,
Miss Jourdain assured^Miss Moberly that the
place was entirely different. “ The distances were
much less than we had imagined : and the
ground was so bare that the house and the
Hameau were in full view of one another ; and
that there was nothing unnatural about the
trees.”
In 1937 I considered this statement on the
spot, and I cannot agree that normally, in
summer, the Hameau and the house are easily
visible simultaneously, except from certain
directions. As to the distances seeming much
less, I have already referred to this well-known
impression when revisiting a place for the second
time.
Page 65. Both these impressions are again
referred to here as though great importance is
attached to them.
Page 88. “According to the old picture by
L’Espinasse (1793) there was nothing over the
low bridge . . . but there was by the side of it,
just where the grotto would have ended, a cavern
in a rock.” The rocher was built before 1793,
a queen’s M
EM
ORY 151
and the cavern would be the present one at its
southern side. This would indicate further
confusion between the '“ rocher and the vanished
grotto” .
Page i io. The walk with the two French gentlemen.
No new evidence o f any value seems to have
arisen from this expedition. The French officer
was able to confirm certain details already known
regarding ancient uniforms, and to cite vague
probabilities regarding the cottages which might
at some time have existed in the grounds. I
suspect that their final conclusions, though polite,
were entirely uncompromising. “ They were
ready to accept the stQry as it stood” , which
might mean anything.
It should be noted in connection with Miss
Jourdain’s impression of not at first being able to
see the house and the Hameau at the same time,
but being able to do so on her second visit. On
their first walk such simultaneous views would
be quite impossible owing to the nature of the
ground, but in 1902 Miss Jourdain was in
localities from which they could be seen simul­
taneously.
152 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
CHAPTER XVI
APPENDICES— CONCLUSION
Considerable correspondence in the Listener and
elsewhere follow ed a talk I gave from the B.B.C.
in O ctober o f last year w hen the story o f An
Adventure w as broadcast for the first time.
T here w ere the usual apologists who offered
“ solutions” in m onotonous conformity with their
particular brand o f superstition— some brilliant
and searching com m ents, w ell worth answering,
and a num ber o f frankly abusive gibes. In
answer to one, I w rote as follows ; the letter being
subsequently published in the then current issue
o f the Listener :
“ I w as very interested in the letter of your
correspondent M r. ------ relating to the talk I
gave on the M ystery at Versailles, and agree
w ith him on several o f his comments, though I
* cann ot see eye to eye on others. I have ample
evidence that the history o f the Petit Trianon
itself w as com pletely unknown to the authors,
and the subsequent research seems all along to
confirm this view . Baedeker has practically
nothing to say on the matter, and all French
histories are inclined to treat this particular
153
15 4 t h e m y s t e r y o f Versailles
part of the domain with little more than
passing attention.
“ I have for many years believed that a false
appreciation of what I call ‘subjectivism* has
led humanity into more errors than any other
single psychological factor.”
The last disconnected comment sums up my
whole attitude towards the occult, and seems to
provide cover for ninety-nine out ofevery hundred
alleged phenomena calling for examination. The
hundredth, in these days of relativity, no open-
minded critics could exclude.
When one considers that each and every case
of reported phenomena appearing to violate the
laws of nature can, and do, emanate from minds
varying in capacity from recognisable dementia,
to the critical and brilliant intellects of such men
as Lodge and J. W. Dunne, it is to remark, not
how many, but how strangely few of such pro­
positions are offered for solution.
When Bishop Barclay could go so far as a total
denial of all objective reality, calling (not
unnaturally) upon God to meet the require­
ments of an apparently substantial universe—
and numerous modern idealists give but scant
credit to .underlying truth— outside the observer’s
sphere of vision, we mere laymen must be doubly
on our guard.
Miss Moberly’s Adventure at first looked
different, and for a time I was almost deceived.
The old familiar tests failed to penetrate the
I
appendices— conclusion 155
substance of her unusually well-defended thesis,
with its strong claim to objective confirmation.
It had to be tackled, literally, on its own ground
before it finally yielded.
Without in some way clearing the vast agglom­
eration of purely subjective experiences from the
field of exploitation, I fail to see how scientific
researchers are ever to get to grips with problems
of this nature.
Whilst waiting in the train at the Gare du Nord
after a day at Versailles, I noticed a figure “ 3” ,
hanging from the station roof. It was a metal
device resembling a large stencil and probably
referred to the number of the platform. Viewed
through the carriage window, which was wet, the
figure had in some way become triplicated and
looked, at first glance, like **333” ? I gazed at it
for a time, pondering on the nature of appear­
ances.
If, I reasoned, the figure I can see is 333 and
I care to assert it, who can ever truthfully deny
me? I should be told, of course, that the
refraction of the wet glass was deceiving me. But
since, if I were not looking at it through glass,
I should be using the lenses of my eyes, a natural
transparent media, can I thus, with any more
confidence, define its true nature ?
Yes. But by the doubtful expedient only of
reducing its appearance to a common denomina-
tor— that of general opinion and mutual consent,
which, in matters of ultimate reality, must in the
nature of things be equally unreliable.
I56 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
I myself happen to suffer from defective colour-
vision. I cannot distinguish between certain
primary colours, and confidently assert that this
and that flower are alike, where you would state
with equal certainty that they were entirely
different. Both of us cannot be correct, yet it is
only because colour-blindness has an incidence of
something like seven per cent, of the population,
instead of seventy per cent., that for the time being
I am “ wrong” and you are “ right” . It is possible
to imagine a race or generation where these
percentages were reversed. Where, then, would
lie objective reality where colours are concerned ?
A small boy of my acquaintance recendy
asked his mother whether he and his father really
existed. Or did she think that, perhaps, they
were only a part of his own imagination ? Out
of the mouths . . . !
All this may appear very obvious to intelligent
readers, and is as old as the hills, but seems to
have a peculiar significance in the present issue.
I can never prove the authors of An Adventure to
have been wrong without impugning their own
intellectual honesty, which I think is self-evident.
All I can do is to place them outside the majority
verdict of the average, say, visitor to Versailles.
No one can go further than this.
It seems undeniable, for instance, that St. Paul
was visited by a dazzling apparition on the lonely
Damascus road, and that certain of the disciples
gazed wonderingly at the face of the Resurrected
Christ. Christianity itself proves it, if docu-
mentary evidence is insufficient to do so. E very
church spire th rou gh ou t C h risten d om stands in
mute evidence to its u n d o u b ted veracity. T h e
best that any critic ca n do in h an d lin g these
situations is to p rove, i f possible, th at you or I,
had we been there, w o u ld h ave seen no such
thing.
N aturally, in d raw in g conclusions one cannot
ignore questions o f con tem porary tem peram ent,
the spirit o f the age, con tributory influences, etc.,
though w ith ou t in an y w a y affecting the m ain
premise.
So m uch close study o f the T rian on m ystery,
and so long an association w ith the recorded
findings o f its authors, h ad m ade it strangely
difficult at tim es to realise the ruin I have wrought.
It m ay b e an aspect o f the very tendency in
hum an nature on w h ich I base m y calculations
that it seems w ell-nigh impossible to perceive the
m inute residua to w hich, for m e, T h e Adventure
has been reduced. A n hour at Versailles . . .
h a lf an h our’s w alk through the Q ueen’s exclusive
gardens . . . a visit to the house . . . a carriage
drive “ w here all w as fresh and natural” , thirty-
seven years ago !
W h o am ongst the com pany o f casual visitors
th at d a y w o u ld rever have anticipated such a
sequel ? W h o w ould have im agined that the
ordin ary scenes and persons encountered by
m an y should be destined to imm ortal fam e?
O r th at the simple experience open to all and
sundry o f w alking through these historic grounds
a p p e n d ic e s — c o n c l u s io n 1 5 7
should give birth to the only serious claim—
except one— to the witness of a physical subjective
displacement in time ?
I have in my possession a letter from an old
friend of both the authors, eighty-five years of
age, in which she speaks of the suffering and
humiliation endured by them as a result of the
ridicule and open accusations levelled at them
ever since their story was first made public, and
of the joy with which, in her old age, Miss
Moberly first read the findings of Einstein, whose
speculations she felt favoured the acceptance of
her visions. To this lady, and others, I can offer
just this consolation :
My close acquaintance with The Adventure,
far from discrediting the character and integrity
of its courageous authors, has, on the contrary,
endeared them to me in a manner quite unusual
in an association of purely academic and
retrospective character.
To these brave ladies The Adventure was
vividly and patently true. If I find truth in its
complete negation, then it is indeed the same
truth, and honour is satisfied
That I have destroyed something of great
beauty I am only too ready to admit, and it is
not without a certain sadness that I accept the
penalty inseparable from active scepticism. Yet
there are many who would find themselves
similarly impelled in like circumstances. It were
better surely for mature minds that, where
capable ofdemonstration, the truth should prevail,
158 THE MYSTERY OF VERSAILLES
however m any tender illusions m ay lie prostrate
in its path.
Was it an unworthy sense of thwarted
hope, a cynical determ ination to share my
disappointment, w hich led me to my consider­
able labour o f dem olition? I would, I think,
do m yself injustice w ere I to leave it at that.
R ather w ou ld I contem plate the possibility that
in seeking to fathom a mystery so well founded
I m igh t perchance have wielded some minor
tool o f reason capable o f further use in abler
hands th an m ine.
APPENDICES— CONCLUSION 1 59
THE END
/
