{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__saltmarsh___evidence_of_personal_survival.pdf","mytitle":"Evidence Of Personal Survival","mylang":"de"}
EVIDENCE OF
PERSONAL SURVIVAL
FROM
CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
by
H. F. SALTMARSH
LONDON
G. BELL & SONS, LTD
I 9 3 8
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
BY WESTERN PRINTING SERVICES LTD., BRISTOL
This volume is based on material in the posses-
sion of the Society for Psychical Research and is
published with the consent of the Council, who,
whilst they do not necessarily endorse any opinion
expressed in the book, welcome this opportunity
of bringing the evidence before the public.
The author desires to make acknowledgment of his debt to
the Council of the Society for Psychical Research for per-
mission to print extracts from Proceedings,also to Mr. J. G.
Piddington for his kind advice and assistance.
GENERAL INTRODUCTION
THIS book is one of a series on the subject of Psychical
Experiences. The Society for Psychical Research, it
should be stated at once, is in no way responsible for
any of the deductions made, or theories advanced. All
it has done as a Society is to allow members of the
various groups who have been preparing the books to
have access to unpublished records in its possession,
and to grant permission to reprint records published in
its Proceedings,and, in special cases, records privately
printed in its Journal.
The stories of Psychic Experiences that appear in this
series are on a completely different level from the
majority of such stories published in most papers and
magazines. Few people realize the meticulous care
which the Society's investigators have always taken to
test the good faith a,nd the accuracy of those whose
experiences have appeared in the Proceedingsand
Journal, as also the good faith and the accuracy of those
who contribute corroborative evidence.
The object of this series is to put before the ordinary
reading public examples of the evidence for various
super-normal occurrences and faculties which the
Society has been collecting for over half a century, and
is still collecting.
The lack of interest shown by ordinary readers in this
body of carefully tested evidence may be due to its
bulk and complexity, and partly, perhaps, to their
vii
viii GENERAL INTRODUCTION
awareness of the fact that the majority of men of science
fight shy of it. One reason for the aloofness of most men
of science is probably the absence of any theory which
successfully attempts to bring the various phenomena
into even a semblance of unity.
In the present series no attempt can, of course, be
made to supply such a theory. Nevertheless, it is much
to be desired that someone with a thorough knowledge
of the evidence should try, as Frederic Myers did
nearly forty years ago in his Scheme of Vital Faculty
(HumanPersonality,
Vol. II, pp. 505-54), to construct' a
connected schedule or rational index of phenomena so
disparate that the very possibility of their interdepen-
dence is even now constantly denied.' And that such
an attempt should be made afresh is all the more to be
desired because since Myers's death phenomena of a
new type have been observed.
While, then, the authors of these small books recog-
nize the need for some unifying theory, they have con-
fined themselves to the less ambitious and less arduous
task of marshalling a quantity of well-attested evidence
for phenomena of many different kinds. For such views
and comments as may be found in any of the books the
individual writer, as has been stated above, is alone
responsible.
CHAPTER I
THE purpose of this little book is to put before those
who have not made a study of the subject some of the
evidence which psychical research has been able to
collect concerning the possibility of survival. It forms one
of a series of such books, and is part of an attempt to gain
a wider interest in the results of over fifty years ofinquiry
by members of the Society for Psychical Research.
Up till now the reading public has had, no doubt, a
certain amount of rather vague and somewhat inexact
knowledge of what the Society has done, but owing to
the fact that the records of its work are contained, for
the most part, in its Proceedings
and Journal, which are
not generally accessible, it is chiefly among its members
that there exists any considerable acquaintance with
the evidence which it has collected,_and with the critical
analyses and commentaries to which that evidence has
been subjected. Moreover, the study of these records
is, it must be admitted, a laborious task, and entails a
great deal of very tedious reading, besides a not incon-
siderable amount of special technical knowledge.
The Society as a body has no opinions, except that
there are problems to be solved and that the critical
method of approach may possibly lead to a solution.
On the covers of the volumes of Proceedings
is always to
be found the following notice: 'The responsibility for
both the facts and the reasonings in papers published in
the Proceedings
rests entirely with their authors.'
I
2 INTRODUCTION
Thus it is that there is to be found among its members
the widest divergence of opinion on most of the various
topics which are discussed. There are those who are
avowed Spiritualists, that is to say, who accept as a
fact that the human personality persists after the death
of the body and that it can, in certain favom:able
circumstances, communicate with those on earth;
while there are others who hold the view that physical
death entails the complete cessation of anything which
could be called a personality.
These differences of opinion are, for the most part,
concerned with the interpretation of facts and the
inferences to be drawn from them, alth9ugh in certain
branches, more particularly in those dealing with
physical phenomena, there is no general agreement as
to the validity of the evidence; thus some believe that
the evidence for the existence of physical phenomena,
such as movements of objects without contact, known
as telekinesis, materializ;:itions, or the production of
visible or tangible forms, and so on, is sufficient in
quality and quantity to carry a provisional conviction;
while others are inclined to dismissthe whole thing as due
to fraud, mal-observation, or some other normal cause.
In this book, however, we are not interested in
physical phenomena, and the facts which constitute our
evidence cannot be denied, as will be seen in the sequel.
Various interpretations can, no doubt, be placed upon
them and various causes assigned, but no one can dis-
pute their reality except on the fantastic suggestion that
a number of eminent scientists and scholars combined
together to perpetrate a silly practical joke for the
purpose of de.ceiving the readers of the Society's pub-
INTRODUCTION 3
lications. Before embarking on my account of the
phenomena, I should like to make a few further remarks
concerning the scientific nature of the study.
In the ultimate resort all science depends on human
testimony. It is true that in certain sciences, such as
physics and chemistry, this testimony is reduced to its
simplest form, and may be no more than the observation
and recording of the movement of the needle of a
galvanometer or similar instrument. There are, how-
ever, sciences where observation and testimony plays a
larger part, notably those concerned with living things,
such as biology in its many branches, and psychology.
In psychical research observation and testimony are
of primary importance, for we must depend on them
for most of our facts. Even where planned experimen-
tation is employed, it is very rare that the necessary
observation can be reduced to the level of pointer
readings, that is to say, the recording of the movement
of the indicator of a scientific instrument.
It is a truism that human testimony is unreliable;
human memory is fallible and there is an innate ten-
dency in most people to embroider and amplify. The
courts of law, which have also to depend mainly on
human testimony, reject hearsay evidence and will not /
listen to 'what the soldier said,' thus implicitly acknow-
ledging the inherent weakness of the only available
source from which knowledge of fact can be derived.
The scope and accuracy of the powers of observation
of the ordinary individual are far more restricted than
is usually admitted. This has been tested by direct
experiment by members of the Society.1 A faked seance
'Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XL, pp. 363-87.
4 INTRODUCTION
was arranged, that is to say, the experimenter pretended
to be a medium producing physical phenomena under
the usual conditions oflighting and so on; the observers
knew that it was faked and were instructed to watch
carefully what happened. They recorded their impres-
sions and these records were compared. It was found
that the correctness of the testimony of the sitters in
answer to a questionnaire of fifteen points concerning
what happened, varied from 5.9 to 61 per cent, averag-
ing 33.9 per cent. Only one sitter, out of the whole
forty-two, scored some success in reply to every question.
This weakness of observation is further plainly seen
when it is considered how much more is taken in by
the trained observer than by the untrained. Now it
cannot be said that anyone is really trained to observe
the type of fact which is of interest to psychical research,
for these facts are so various in character and cover the
whole range of human activity.
Where definite experimentation is undertaken, some
training in observation is possible, but unfortunately,
experiment plays a comparatively small part in supply-
ing the psychical researcher with material. It is true
that efforts have been, and still are being made, to
extend the use of experimentation, but we still have to
rely for most of our evidence on ordinary observa-
tion. That herein lies one of the major causes of
difficulty in the subject was recognized by those direct-
ing the Society from the very outset, and they endea-
voured to meet it by laying down rigid canons of
evidence, and refusing to publish any case which did not
comply therewith.
More than this could not have been done, and I think
INTRODUCTION 5
that it may be said that on the whole these canons have
been strictly observed.
But it follows that no conclusions arrived at from
consideration of alleged phenomena can be held to be
established with complete certainty. One must always
insert some such clause as 'provided that the evidence
can be accepted.' That the effect of such a qualification
depends on the nature of the alleged facts is obvious.
It would be, for example, far more important in cases
where spontaneous phenomena, such as phantasms or
hauntings were concerned, than in those which fall to be
discussed in this book, that is to say, where the bulk of
the material consists of writings done automatically.
Here we have the advantage of dealing solely with
documentary evidence-evidence, that is to say, which
is objective and permanent, concerning which errors
of observation and exaggeration cannot arise.
There is one further point which must be touched upon
before we can get down to cases. In almost all sciences
the element of personal feeling and predilection is, if not
completely absent, at any rate of negligible proportions.
Though scientists may have pet theories or a general bias
towards one particular type of interpretation, these are
not likely to exercise any compulsive influence over
their conclusions. One cannot imagine an astronomer,
for instance, being swayed in his judgment by his
personal desires to the extent of refusing to accept plain
facts or to draw plain inferences. He may, possibly,
lay a greater stress on certain aspects of his problem
because such are favourable to his pet theories, but I
doubt whether the course of knowledge is materially
influenced.
6 INTRODUCTION
In psychical research, however, the position is very
different and it is the common experience of most
workers therein that divergent views are held, not
merely with firmness, but also with something amount-
ing to passionate resolve. In particular, in the matter
of survival, one is apt to find that comparatively few
students can maintain the attitude of dispassionate
impartiality which is essential to the scientist. Of
course, in a matter where human life and fate an~
involved, wherein man's most intimate hopes, fears and
affections depend upon the answers to the questions,
it is not reasonable to expect everybody to be cold and
unemotional, yet any other attitude is prejudicial, if
not actually fatal, to the scientific method.
It must be remembered that there are two sides to
this question. It sometimes happens that the strong
feelings involved have the effect of rendering an
investigator hypercritical. A man may long to believe,
yet, just because he is aware of the strength of his
longing, he may become unduly sceptical for ·rear that
his desire may warp his judgment.
The aim of the method is the discovery of hypotheses,
not of absolute truth, and hypotheses are; or at any rate
ought to be, constructed to withstand rough handling.
If any hypothesis be so fragile as to crack under the
strain of criticism, then it is worthless. It is surely
unwise, therefore, to fix your heart on any hypothesis,
for should criticism succeed in overthrowing it-and
one never knows what may happen to even the most
firmly rooted hypothesis-your heart may be broken
in the fall.
All, then, that can be expected from scientific inquiry
INTRODUCTION 7
is the ascertainment of the probability in favour of some
particular hypothesis. In the case of psychical research
these probabilities will J?-ot,as a rule, be very high by
reason of the disabilities under which it labours, some
of which I have pointed out. If, therefore, one turns
to psychical research expecting to find a 'sure and.
certain hope' one is doomed to disappointment.
I do not deny that there may be other sources of
knowledge besides scientific inquiry, and that these may
yield a 'sure and certain hope.' I neither affirm nor
deny it, it is quite outside my province.
There is, perhaps, one reflection in this connection
which should be made. It has arisen from the fact
that, as remarked above, our most intimate hopes, fears
and affections, are concerned with the answers to the
problems of psychical research, many people who have
taken up the study have erected a religion upon it and
that this has gone a long way towards confusing the
issues and discr~diting the purely scientific approach
in the eyes, not only of the orthodox scientist, but also
in those of the orthodox religionist of other persuasion.
CHAPTER II
FoR the benefit of those who have no previous
knowledge of the results of psychical research, I
propose to state briefly a few of the hypotheses for
which a greater or less degree of probability has been
established, but I shall touch only upon those which
are relevant to the particular branch to be dealt with
here.
The first, both in order of time and in magnitude of
probability, is telepathy. This has been defined as
'the communication of impressions of any kind from
one mind to another, independently of the recognized
channels of sense' (Myers),1or 'the acquisition of the
mental content of another without the intermediary of
the organs of sense' (Driesch). 2
Driesch divides it into two distinct kinds; first pure
telepathy,wherein the agent, i.e. the person who nor-
mally possesses the knowledge, communicates it to the
percipient, i.e. the person who supernormally acquires
it; second, thoughtreading,wherein the percipient draws
the knowledge from the mind of the agent. In pure
telepathy the agent is the active party and the perci-
pient passive, in thought reading the percipient is active
and the agent passive.
'Human Personalityand Its Survival of Bodily Death, by F. W. H. Myers.
Vol. I, p. XXII.
'Psychical Research, by Hans Driesch (trans. Theodore Besterman),
p.71.
8
GENERAL PHENOMENA g
There may be also cases where both parties are
active in varying degrees.
Now, although we can make these distinctions in
theory, we have no certain grounds for holding that
they actually exist in fact, the most that we can say
in any case is that it looks more like one than the other.
There is a further possible alternative which has been
suggested, though, from the nature of the facts, little
or no objective evidence of its truth is obtainable; this is
that the communication of impressions from one mind
to another is carried out by means of the intervention
of a third agency, such as a disembodied spirit. As we
do not know for certain that disembodied spirits exist,
nor, even if they do, whether they can communicate
with embodied minds, this hypothesis cannot be taken
as being much more than pure speculation.
The fact is, that although we have very good - some
would say, conclusive - evidence, that impressions are
communicated from one mind to another in this super-
normal fashion, when we call it telepathy we are simply
attaching a label to cover our ignorance. We know
nothing of its real nature or of its modusoperandi. Thus
when the sceptic asserts, as he frequently does, that all
supernormal mental phenomena can be covered by
telepathy, he is simply explaining one mystery by
another.
The next type of phenomenon to be mentioned is
clairvoyance. Myers defined it as 'the faculty or act of
perceiving, as though visually, with some coincidental
truth, some distant scene.'1 Clairaudience could be
similarly defined by substituting hearing for sight. He
'Human Personality, Vol. I, p. XV.
B
IO GENERAL PHENOMENA
preferred, however, the term telresthesia to cover both
clairvoyance and clairaudience.
Driesch defines clairvoyance as being 'the super-
normal acquisition of knowledge about objective
concrete situations.' 1
Clairvoyance, or telresthesia, may transcend the
ordinary limitations of sense perception, both in the
matter of space and of time. Thus the clairvoyant or
seer may obtain knowledge of distant scenes, or some
object which is normally inaccessible, such as the
contents of a sealed envelope or a passage in a closed
book. He may also acquire knowledge of past or even
future events.
The evidence for clairvoyance, though considerable
in amount, and high in point of quality, does not reach
the level of that for telepathy; however, many students
of the subject consider that it stands on a substantially
firm foundation as regards its actuality.
As in the case of telepathy, we know practically
nothing of its nature and modusoperandi.
It is usually assumed that in clairvoyance the perci-
pient or seer is the only person involved - no agent is
necessary; but it must be borne in mind that many
cases of apparent clairvoyance may be really telepathic,
for, where the situation supernormally perceived by the
seer is being, or has been, normally perceived by another
person, the seer's knowledge may be derived from the
mind of that person, either by pure telepathy or by
thought reading.
Just as telepathy was subdivided, so we can form
various sub-groups of clairvoyance; first, spatial clair-
1 PsychicalResearch,p. 72.
GENERAL PHENOMENA II
voyance, where distant scenes or otherwise inaccessible
objects are perceived; second, temporal clairvoyance,
which could be further split up into retro-cognition and
pre-cognition, i.e. supernormal knowledge of past and
future events.
Clairvoyance and telepathy merge into one another
apparently by imperceptible degrees, but until we
understand more of their modusoperandi,
.we cannot say
whether they are actually different faculties or only
different manifestations of one supernormal faculty of
acquiring knowledge.
We must now consider some of the modes in which
these two faculties, telepathy and clairvoyance, are
shown, but I must first of all introduce the conception
of the subliminal, or as some prefer to call it, the sub-
conscious mind.
I cannot do better than quote from Myers' Human
Personality,Vol I, p. 14: 'The idea of a threshold (limen,
Schwelle) of consciousness; - of a level above which
sensation or thought must rise before it can enter into
our conscious life; - is a simple and familiar one. The
word subliminal- meaning "beneath that threshol?" -
has already been used to define those sensations which
are too feeble to be individually recognized. I propose
to extend the meaning of the term, so as to make it
cover all that takes place beneath the ordinary threshold
or say, if preferred, outside the ordinary margin of con-
_sciousness.. . . Perceiving ... that these submerged
thoughts and emotions possess the characteristics which
we associate with conscious life, I feel bound to speak
of a subliminalor ultra-marginal
consciousness.
. . . I find it
permissable and conveni-ent to speak of subliminal
12 GENERAL PHENOMENA
selves, or more briefly of a subliminal self. I do not
indeed by using this term assume that there are two
correlative and parallel selves existing always within
each of us. Rather I mean by the subliminal self that
part of the Self which is commonly subliminal; and I
conceive that there may be, - not only co-operations
between these quasi-independent trains of thought - but
also upheavals and alterations of personality of many
kinds, so that what was once below the surface may for
a time, or permanently, rise above it. And I conceive
also that no Self of which we can here have cognisance,
is in reality more than a fragment of a larger Self.'
I think that it is perhaps a pity that the prefix 'sub'
has always been used in this connection, whether in
subliminal or in subconscious, for it almost irresistibly
brings in the idea of beneathconsciousness, thus tending
to make one think that the contents of the subliminal
mind are lower or more rudimentary in character than
those of normal or supra-liminal consciousness. This is
not so, for the subliminal may, and frequently does,
contain elements which are definitely higher or more
advanced than our normal faculties.
The subliminal, it is true, is partly a rubbish dump,
but it may also be a gold mine; it is littered with worn-
out relics of other days, but it is the storehouse of for-
gotten memories; from it proceed dreams and delirium,
but it may also be the fountain from which springs the
inspiration of genius. It observes and records much that
passes unnoticed by the supra-liminal. The subliminal
is capable of carrying on an independent train of
conscious process - I hesitate to call it thought, though,
judging from the glimpses which we occasionally get,
GENERAL PHENOMENA
it is a process in many ways the same as our ordinary
thought. Some writers, including Myers, as we have
seen above, have boldly spoken of the subliminal self as
distinguished from the supraliminal or manifested self
of everyday life.
In normal circumstances there is a close relation-
ship between the subliminal and the supraliminal,
although the former does not intrude into view but
remains more or less active below the surface. There is
a constant interchange between the two levels, parts of
the content of the supraliminal consciousness sinking,
as it were, into the subliminal, while occasionally the
results of subliminal processes and activity force them-
selves to the surface.
In ordinary sleep the supraliminal is almost com-
pletely in abeyance, but the subliminal remains active,
producing the material and weaving the patterns of our
dreams.
But there are occasions when this close relationship
is disturbed, and the subliminal takes to itself a greater
degree of independence. This is usually known as
dissociation.
It would be too great a digression to cite the evidence
on which these views are based, I will, therefore, content
myself with enumerating a few of the main types. They
are the phenomena of multiple personality, of hypnosis,
unconscious mentation, as, for example, when the
solution of some problem which has baffled our ordinary
thought springs suddenly into our minds.
There are good grounds for believing that the super-
normal faculties exercised in telepathy and clairvoyance
belong to the subliminal, and although it would perhaps
GENERAL PHENOMENA
be going too far to say that this is definitely established
in all cases, I think that it is safe to say that it is generally
true. Moreover, we may go further and say that in the
majority of cases at any rate, these phenomena take
place when there is a certain amount of dissociation
between the subliminal and the supraliminal. The
dissociation may be so slight as to be not noticeable,
but I, personally, am inclined to think that it is always
there.
Now as regards the modes in i.yhich telepathy and
clairvoyance are commonly manifested, we have first,
spontaneous telepathy between two individuals, as in
cases when the same idea comes simultaneously into -
both minds. There is as a rule no conscious endeavour
on the part of the agent to send a message, or on the
part of the recipient to put himself into a state favour-
able to receive it. Dissociation, if it is present at all, is
so slight that it can rarely be detected. Almost every-
one, I imagine, has had personal experience of this
phenomenon, with some people it is of everyday
occurrence. In these cases it is usually impossible to
say whether it is the agent or the percipient who is the
active party. Spontaneous clairvoyance is usually
accompanied by a more marked degree of dissociation;
it occurs when a person suddenly acquires knowledge
of a distant scene or a past or future event. It is much
more rare than spontaneous telepathy and compara-
tively few people experience it.
Next come induced telepathy and clairvoyance.
There are several methods which are commonly used.
Thus two persons may deliberately try to obtain
telepathic communication, one acting as agent and
GENERAL PHENOMENA
thinking of a certain object or idea, the other as perci-
pient endeavouring, by holding the mind blank, to
throw himself into a receptive state. Considerable
success, far beyond anything which could be attributed
to chance, has frequently been obtained in experiments
of this sort. Dissociation here may become quite
marked, particularly with the percipient. Then there
are those more advanced cases where trance is em-
ployed. A few peculiarly constituted individuals are
able to go into a trance state, more or less at will. In
such a state dissociation is very high and sometimes
the subject seems to be capable of becoming highly
receptive to telepathy, or of exercising thought reading
and clairvoyance with a considerable degree of success.
Such individuals are usually called 'Mediums.' The
term is a bad one, and I much prefer the synthetic
word 'Metagnome.'
It is somewhat unfortunate that psychical research
is encumbered with terms which implicitly assume
some sort of spiritistic hypothesis; thus the term
'medium' suggests a medium of exchange or trans-
mission, a mediator between two parties; the term
communicator, again, implies a personal identity.
I do not say that the spiritistic hypothesis is untenable,
but it is clearly undesirable that terms which beg the
question in respect of any hypothesis whatsoever should
be used.
However, they have the sanction of custom; more-
over, they are for the most part convenient in avoiding
cumbrous circumlocutions. I shall therefore continue
to speak of mediums, communicators, .::ontrols, spirits,
messages, and the 'other side,' but I want to make it
16 GENERAL PHENOMENA
perfectly clear that in doing so I imply no acceptance
of any explanatory hypothesis whatsoever.
In what follows when I speak of a medium I shall
mean exclusively one who produces the so-called mental
phenomena, i.e. speech, writing or communications by
any other method, such as table-tilting. In most
instances when this term is used it will be of a person
who produces these phenomena in trance, when there
is no trance I prefer the term 'automatist.'
Generally speaking, trance mediums have what is
called a 'control.' This purports to be a disembodied
spirit who, as a rule, claims identity with a deceased
human being, very commonly of a rather exotic
extraction, such as a Red Indian Chief, or, as in the
case of Mrs. Osborne Leonard's control, Feda, an
Indian girl; the control frequently a,dopts a childish
manner of speech or uses broken English.
In the case of Mrs. Piper, the one medium, as dis-
tinguished from automatist, here concerned, the con-
trols were a group of rather enigmatic personages
known as Rector, Prudens, Imperator and Doctor.
They were not, so to speak, 'all her own invention,'
but were taken over, or at least their names were, from
Stainton Moses, a clergyman, who had manifested
remarkable mediumistic powers and was well known
both in spiritualist circles and among those interested in
psychical research.
I shall have more to say about these controls, but
should mention here that in their case the manner of
speech was by no means childish, it was, in fact,
extremely dignified.
It must also be said that the claim that they were
GENERAL PHENOMENA
the same set of individuals who had controlled Stain ton
Moses cannot be admitted as being established.
Although these claims have never been substantiated,
and in some cases have been proved to be almost
certainly false, so much so that many students hold that
the control is only a kind of secondary personality of
the medium, it must be admitted that they maintain a
consistency of character and behave as though they
were separate individuals. As one might say, the
dramatic personation is good.
The function of the control is to direct proceedings
'from the other side,' to arrange the methods and
manner in which the sittings are held, and to receive
the messages from other purporting communicators,
i.e. from what claim to be the surviving spirits of
deceased human beings desirous of communicating
with those remaining on earth. The control then
delivers the message through the medium, or acts as an
amanuensis.
The scene which is portrayed may be thought of
somewhat as follows. The medium may be likened to a
telephone with a loud-speaker to which the sitter listens
and through which he may speak to the control. At the
other end is the control who converses with the com-
municators and relays the messages through the tele-
phone. Occasionally the sitter may catch fragments of
conversations going on between the control and the
communicators, also the communicator may sometimes
oust the control, and speak directly through the
telephone.
This is, of course, a fanciful picture, and must not be
taken too seriously: whether it really represents what
r8 GENERAL PHENOMENA
actually takes place need not be considered here, all
that we are concerned with is the content and meaning
of the messages. Sometimes, even with a trance
medium, the messages are written instead of being
spoken. If the messages are veridical, that is to say,
truth-telling, and if the knowledge contained in them
should be such that it cannot be ascribed to the
medium's consciousness, then we must find some
hypothesis to account for,it.
Besides trance mediumship there are other methods
whereby sensitive persons may render themselves
receptive to supernormal influences.
There is, first, crystal-gazing or 'scrying.' This
practice is of ancient origin, we have records of its
employment in very early times. Sometimes a ball of
crystal or glass is used, sometimes a pool of some liquid,
occasionally the polished thumb-nail. It does not seem
to matter what is used, the modusoperandi
is always the
same. The scryer concentrates attention and gazes
fixedly at the object, and gradually scenes appear on its
surface, or, if a crystal is used, in its interior; these
scenes may be simply a kind of externalized dream,
but sometimes they are veridical, that is to say, they
convey information not known normally to the scryer.
The function of the crystal or pool of liquid appears
to be simply to induce a state of dissociation, thus
rendering the emergence of subliminal impressions
easier; the fact that the scenes appear to be in the
crystal is due to externalization of the subliminal
impression, it is a form of induced hallucination.
There are also several forms of what is technically
called 'automatism.' One of the most common of these
DRAMATIS PERSONJE 19
is automatic writing, which may be performed with or
without a planchette. The planchette, as most people
know, is a small heart-shaped board with a pencil, point
downwards at one corner, and two little wheels or
castors at the others, so that it can move easily over the
paper, causing the pencil to leave marks. The operator,
or operators, rest a finger lightly upon it, taking care
not to direct its movement consciously.
In some cases, however, the automatic writing is done
simply by holding a pen or pencil, and allowing the
hand to move as it were by its own volition. Quite a
large number of people can do this with a little practice.
In other cases, though the hand does not move
automatically, the automatist does not know the mean-
ing of what is being written. He or she may know what
word is being actually written, but does not connect the
words up into sentences.
In still other cases the automatist writes down words
and sentences which come into the mind from the
outside, as it were. It is as though the words were being
taken down from dictation.
There is probably always a certain amount of dissocia-
tion when automatic writing is being performed, but it
is frequently imperceptible.
As a very large proportion of the evidence to be
discussed here comes through automatic writing, I shall
describe, in some detail, the methods employed by two
or three of the principal automatists. I reserve a
description of Mrs. Piper's methods until later.
The first to be mentioned is Mrs. Verrall. She was a
lecturer in classics at Newnham, and wife of Dr. A. W.
Verrall, the well-known Cambridge classical scholar.
20 DRAMATIS PERSON lE
She was also a member of the Council of the Society
for Psychical Research. In a paper on her automatic
writing, published in Proceedings,S.P.R., Vol. XX,
October, 1906, she says: 'Whether I write in light or
dark, I do not look at the paper. I perceive a word or
two, but never understand whether it makes sense with
what goes before. Under these circumstances, it will
be seen that though I am aware at the moment of
writing what language my hand is using, when the
script is finished I often cannot say, till I read it, what
language has been used, as the recollection of the words
passes away with extreme rapidity.
'I have tried more than once to reproduce from
memory what has just been written, but I have never
been able to give more than a word or two and I have
no impression as to the general sense, if there has been
any. 1
'I usually write when I am alone, and I prefer not to
have a bright light; it is desirable also to write at a time
of day or under circumstances when I am not likely to
be interrupted. But none of these conditions is essen-
tial. 2
'It is quite common for me to write in a railway-
carriage with other travellers present. 2
'My left hand writes automatically as well as my
right; I should say that I normally can write with both
hands, and use the left when the right is incapacitated
by writer's cramp. 2
'I am sometimes exceedingly sleepy during the
production of the writing, and more than once I
1
Op. cit., p. 12. 'Op. cit., p. 13.
DRAMATIS PERSONJE 21
have momentarily lost consciousness of my surround-
ings.' 1
It will be observed from what Mrs. Verrall says about
getting sleepy while writing, that some degree, often
considerable, of dissociation was present.
A large part of her script consists of purported com-
munications from Mr. F. W. H. Myers, poet, classical
scholar, and one of the founders of the Society for
Psychical Research. He was the author of Human
Personality and Its Survival of Bodily Death, from which
I have already quoted, as well as volumes of poems,
essays, etc. He died on January 17th, 1901.
The next to be described is the lady who is known
as Mrs. Holland. She was at first not personally
acquainted with any of the officers or members of the
Society, but corresponded with Miss Alice Johnson, the
Secretary. She lived at the time in India, but came
home for a year or so in April, r904. She met Miss
Johnson for the first time in October, 1905, and Mrs.
Verrall in the November following.
She began automatic writing for her own amusement
in 1893.
The bulk of her script at the period for the first ten
years, consisted of verse. In a letter to Miss Johnson,
dated September 14th, 1903, she says: 'The verses,
though often childishly simple in wording and jingling
in rhyme, are rarely trivial in subject. Their striking
feature is the rapidity with which they come. I once
wrote down fourteen poems in little over an hour ....
When I write original verse I do so slowly and carefully,
with frequent erasures: automatic verse is always as
1
Op. cit., p. 14.
22 DRAMA TIS PERSON lE
if swiftly dictated and there are never any erasures.
I am always fully conscious, but my hand moves
so rapidly that I seldom know what words it is
forming. 1
'I have been asked if automatic writing has ever
stated facts previously unknown to me, which were
afterwards proved to be correct.' She then quotes a
poem written automatically, which ran as follows:
'Under the orange tree
Who is it lies?
Baby hair that is flaxen fair,
Shines when the dew on the grass is wet,
Under the iris and violet.
'Neath the orange-tree
Where the dead leaves be,
Look at the dead child's eyes!'
'This is very curious,' said my friend, 'there is a
tradition that a child is buried in the garden here, but
I know that you have never heard it.' 2
She mentioned a few other instances wherein her
script seemed to contain information unknown to her,
and says : 'Since then I have felt on three occasions that
some unseen but very present personality was striv-
ing to transmit a message through me to a well-
beloved. '3
InJune, 1903, Mrs. Holland read Myers' great work,
Human Personality. This led to her getting into corres-
pondence with Miss Johnson, also, apparently, to a
change in the character of her script; at any rate
whether or not there was any connection with her
reading the book, a marked change in the script fol-
1
Proc.,S.P.R., Vol. XXI, p. 171. 'Ibid., p. 1 73. 'Ibid., p. 174.
DRAMATIS PERSON JE
lowed immediately. Instead ofpoems, which presumably
were the work of her subliminal mind (she is widely
read in the English poets, and as her letter above
quoted mentions, writes original verse herself) her
automatic writing from this period purports to be
inspired chiefly by Fred Myers, but also, to a lesser
extent, by Edmund Gurney (diedJune 22nd, 1888), and
Pro£ Hy. Sidgwick (died August 28th, rgoo), the two
friends to whom Myers had dedicated his book, and
with whom he had been associated in life in the work
of psychical research.
These may be described as being almost controls
in the sense described above (p. r6). The Myers
control preferred to write with~a pen, while the Gurney
control used a pencil. Miss Johnson says: 'As usual in
automatic writing, there are various different indica-
tions of which "control" is purporting to be present.
Occasionally, but not very often, the "control" uses a
signature - either in full, or in initials. Often the
contents of the writing leave no doubt as to who it is. _
And, as usual, varieties of handwriting are associated
with the different controls, though they are not always
used consistently for the same one.' 1
That the automatic writing took place in a state of
partial dissociation is clearly seen from the fact that at
one time Mrs. Holland was much troubled because of
a strong tendency to go into trance when writing
automatically; she sought Miss Johnson's advice as to
the best way to counteract it. MissJohnson advised the
use of auto-suggestion, and this was completely success-
ful il'.i preventing actual trance, but I think that there is
'Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXI, p. 180.
DRAMATIS PERSON.lE
no doubt that a state of partial dissociation continued
to prevail.
The third automatist whom I propose to describe
was known as Mrs. Willett. In a paper published in
Proceedings,Vol. XLIII, May, 1935, Lord Balfour
discusses the psychological aspects of Mrs. Willett's
mediumship. With the bulk of the contents of this
paper we are not now concerned, but I draw upon it
for a description of the modusoperandiof Mrs. Willett's
automatism.
Lord Balfour says : 'In her early girlhood Mrs.
Willett discovered that she possessed the power of
automatic writing, but, having no one to guide or advise
her, she soon gave up the practice of it.
'In the second half of r908 circumstances into which
I need not enter led to a renewal of her interest in the
subject. 1
'During the first stage the communications reach the
automatist when she is alone, and in a condition normal
or hardly to be distinguished from the normal. They
take the form of automatic script in a hand different
from Mrs. Willett's ordinary handwriting. But it does
not appear that the act of writing is fully automatic in
the sense that the hand seems to be moved for her by
some external influence and without her co-operation
- though something of the kind did apparently occur
on one unique occasion. According to her own account
the words seem to form in her brain "a hair's-breadth"
before she sets them down; but this does not mean that
her mind anticipates the sense of what is coming, but
only each individual word as it comes. As to her
1
Op. cit., p. 49.
DRAMATIS PERSONJE 25
recollection, when the script is finished, of what she has
written, it is not easy to form any precise estimate, and
probably the extent of it varies considerably.' 1
A second stage, introducing a fresh method, occurred
Ill 1909.
Mrs. Willett began to receive impressions mentally.
In a letter to Mrs. Verrall she says : 'I heard nothing
with my ears, but the words came from outside into my
Inind as they do when one is reading a book to oneself.
I do not remember exact words, but the first sentence
was : "Can you hear what I am saying?" '2
In a subsequent letter she says: 'I got no impression
of appearance,only character, and in some way voice
or pronunciation.' 2
Mrs. Willett wrote down the communications which
came to her in this manner in her ordinary way.
A third stage developed when it became customary
in September, 19m, for someone to sit with Mrs.
Willett. Lord Balfour says of it: 'Its course is a progress
towards deeper and deeper trance.' 3
In this stage Mrs. Willett, though she continues to
produce automatic writing as formerly, speaks a con-
siderable part of the communications. It is as though
she were listening to and reporting the words of some
one who was invisible and inaudible to the sitter.
The controls are the same group as for Mrs. Verrall
and Mrs. Holland, viz. Myers, Gurney and Sidgwick,
with occasional interventions from one or two more of
this group of friends.
There were, besides these three ladies, several other
automatists who played a part. I will, however, make
1
Op. cit., p. 50. • Op. cit., p. 52. ' Op. cit., p. 56.
C
DRAMATIS PERSONJE
no attempt to describe their individual methods as to
do so would occupy much space and add little of value.
Their names were Mrs. Forpes (pseudonym), Miss
Helen Verrall (daughter of Mrs. Verrall), a brother
and sisters known as the 'Macs' and one or two more.
Last, and by no means the least, the famous trance
medium, Mrs. Piper, of Boston, U.S.A. Mrs. Piper,
probably the most remarkable trance medium known,
had been working for members of the Society for a
considerable number of years, and had, during the
period November, 1906, to June, 1907, paid a visit to
England for the purpose of giving sittings.
With a professional medium it is necessary to take
precautions and to institute investigations which.might
be deemed superfluous if applied to a private non-
professional automatist. With the latter the question
of fraud can hardly arise; no reasonable person could
suggest that a group of ladies of the culture and intelli-
gence of those here involved, would combine together
to carry out a scheme of concerted cheating - a con-
spiracy of fraud, and persist in the practice for over
thirty years. Moreover, it is hard to assign any motive
for such conduct: had it been for the sake of a practical
joke, it was surely a strange sense of humour which
could derive satisfaction from anything so cumbrous
and prolonged; had it been for the sake of' showing up'
the investigators, the scheme missed fire for the plot
was never divulged.
However, the investigators took what precautions
were possible to avoid leak!l,geof information from one
automatist to another, also investigation into their
knowledge of facts, both supraliminal and subliminal,
DRAMATIS PERSONJE 27
was, of course, undertaken. It should be stated here
that in every case the automatists gave the fullest
assistance to the investigators, and frequently furnished
information which led to the discovery of a normal
source from which the knowledge might have been
derived.
They also, in some cases, voluntarily submitted them-
selves to restrictions in the matter ofreading, abstaining
from looking at books and other publications, the
reading of which might invalidate the evidence. Thus,
Mrs. Holland, for example, preferred to be kept in
ignorance of the success, or otherwise, of the investiga-
tions while they were being carried out. 1
A further argument against the suggestion of collu-
sion, were one needed, may be derived from the fact
that the 'Myers' of Mrs. Holland's scripts is so totally
unlike that of Mrs. Verrall's; in fact, in many respects
incredible. Had the automatists conspired together in
a plot, Mrs. Verrall, who knew Myers, would have
seen to it that the personation in the scripts of the other
automatists was at least plausible.
With professional mediums, however, one must always
bear in mind the possibility of conscious or unconscious
fraud. The investigation concerning Mrs. Piper in this
respect was most searching and thorough-going, she
was even watched by private detectives in case she
should be making si.irreptitious inquiries for the purpose
of obtaining information which might later be retailed
as being supernormally acquired. The result of this
investigation was completely satisfactory; not the
smallest indication of anything un·derhanded or dis-
' Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXI, p. 175.
DRAMATIS PERSONJE
honest was found. Everyone who has had any dealings
with her has been completely satisfied as to her bona
fides.
As has been mentioned above, the controls in Mrs.
Piper's case at the time, were personages known as
Rector, Imperator and Prudens. Whether they were
actually, as they claimed to be, the surviving spirits of
persons deceased long ago, it is not necessary to discuss.
They were distinguishable personalities, even if they
were no more than secondary personalities of Mrs.
Piper herself. Rector acted as amanuensis for a large
part of the proceedings, and purported to write through
Mrs. Piper's hand messages which he received from
other ostensible communicators. These communicators
included Myers and his group, also Dr. Richard Hodg-
son who had himself been prominent in the investiga-
tion of Mrs. Piper's mediumship, and a communicator
known as George Pelham (pseudonym), usually spoken
of as G.P.
Mr. Piddington, one of the investigators, describes
Mrs. Piper's trance as follows: 'Mrs. Piper sits at a
table with a pile of cushions in front of her, and com-
poses herself to go into trance. After an interval vary-
ing from two or three to ten minutes her head drops
on the cushions with the face turned to the left and the
eyes closed, her right hand falling at the same time on
to a small table placed at her right side. A pencil is put
between her fingers, and the hand proceeds to write.
The writing being done without the aid of sight and
with the arm in a more or less strained position is often
difficult to deciphe'r, at least without practice; but in
spite of its not being easy to read, it is remarkably con-
DRAMATIS PERSON lE
sistent in character, so that, its peculiarities once
grasped, the correct interpretation of all but a few
words is not a matter of conjecture. The coming out
of trance is a longer process than the going into trance.
After the hand has ceased to write the medium
remains quiescent for a few minutes. She then raises
herself slowly, and often with difficulty, from the
cushions. When her body is erect, she begins to speak.
Her utterance at first is usually indistinct, but as she
gradually regains her normal condition it becomes
clearer. 1 The trance-script was always kept out of Mrs.
Piper's sight and taken away at the end of the sitting,
so that she never saw it or had access to it at any time.
In her normal condition she neither asked for nor
received any information whatever about what had
happened at the sittings, except that she was occasion-
ally told that the results were considered interesting and
promising, and that they were of a different nature
from what had previously been obtained. Since there
is strong ground for believing that in her normal state
she remembers absolutely nothing of what has occurred
in the trance state, it would seem impossible that in
the intervals between the sittings she could have got
up any information bearing on them, even had she
wished to do so.'2
Thus, besides what was written while Mrs. Piper was
in trance, there were spoken messages in what was called
the 'waking stage.' These referred to, and sometimes
amplified, the information given in the written mes-
sages; sometimes fresh topics were initiated in the
waking stage.
• Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXII, p. 24. • ibid., p. 25.
DRAMATIS PERSONJE
Finally, I must mention the investigators. It was
usual for the automatists to send their script immediately
after its production to a particular investigator who
studied it and compared it with scripts from other auto-
matists; thus Mrs. Verrall first sent hers to Sir Oliver
Lodge, later to Mr. Piddington, while Mrs. Holland
posted hers to Miss Johnson.
The chief investigators were Mr. J. G. Piddington,
the Rt. Hon. Gerald Wm. Balfour (now Earl of
Balfour), Sir Oliver Lodge, Mrs. Sidgwick, and Miss
Alice Johnson, Secretary of the S.P.R. Mrs. Verrall
filled the dual role of automatist and investigator.
It so happens that most of these were well versed in
the classics and were thus able to appreciate the many
classical allusions and literary puzzles based on classical
authors which abound in the scripts. As I have already
mentioned, Fred Myers was a classical scholar.
Such is the miseen sceneof the series of cases which I
now turn to discuss.
/
CHAPTER III
THE unique and peculiarly interesting feature of this
serjes is that they purported to be experiments invented
and arranged on 'the other side.'
On January 17th, 1901, Fred Myers djed. He had,
during his life, played a leading part in scientific
psychical research and had an intense desire to discover
objective evidence of survival such as would establish
high logical probability, in fact, what would be con-
sidered as proof in any science of observation. He,
himself, fully believed in survival, although he knew
that the evidence available was not sufficient to compel
general belief. In the communications which purport
to come from him through automatic writing we can
see again and again the passionate longing to prove his
continued existence, and to convince his friends on
earth of his identity. For example, in Mrs. Holland's
script of January 12th, 1904, Myers, purporting to
communicate, writes : If it werepossiblefor thesoul to die
back into earthlife againI shoulddiefrom sheeryearning to
reachyou to tell you that all that we imaginedis not half
wonderfulenough
for the truth,1and through Mrs. Piper, I
am trying with all theforces . . . togethertoprove that I am
Myers,2 and again through Mrs. Holland, Oh, I amfeeble
with eagerness
- how canI bestbe identified.
3
1
Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXI, p. 233.
• Proc.,S.P.R., Vol. XXII, p. 105.
• Proc.,S.P.R., Vol. XXI, p. 234.
31
32 PLAN OF CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
Now Myers, as an experienced psychical researcher,
was fully aware of the difficulty of eliminating the
possibility of explaining away evidential messages by
telepathy or clairvoyance. The matter stands thus.
The very large bulk of those cases wherein evidence of a
supernormal kind is put forward as proving personal
survival, consists of communications of knowledge
which is not in the possession of any living person
·concerned, but was, or could have been, possessed by
the individual from whose surviving spirit the messages
purport to come.
Now, it is clear that for such communications to be
of any value as evidence, the information conveyed
must be capable of verification, and this implies that
some living person must know the facts or else that some
record exists or some circumstances from which the
facts may be inferred.
But if this be so, it is always possible to hold that the
information was conveyed telepathically to the mind of
the medium from the living person who knew the facts,
or else that the medium clairvoyantly became aware of
the record or circumstances in which it is embodied.
We have to bear in mind that it is not only the ordinary
supraliminal knowledge of living persons which is
available, but also the subliminal; further that a tele-
pathic impression may be received and lie dormant in
sub-liminal mind of the percipient, emerging into
ordinary consciousness only after a lapse of time, some-
times of quite considerable length.
In these circumstances it is hard to imagine any
possible evidence which could bring unequivocal proof
of survival. Now Myers, as I have said, was fully aware
PLAN OF CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 33
of all this, and what makes these experiments so pecu-
liarly interesting is that, if we take the statements of the
communicators at their face value, it looks as though his
surviving spirit had invented a means of getting over
the difficulty and had endeavoured to carry it out.
I must, however, lay stress on the words 'at their face
value.' Whether this represents a true picture of what
actually occurred and whether the spirit of Fred Myers
survived his bodily death and carried over into his new
mode of existence his memories, affections and interest
in psychical research, must be decided on the evidence
itself.
When reading the reports of the cases and the scripts
of the various automatists, one can hardly help feeling
that it was indeed Myers, Gurney, Sidgwick and the
rest, who once had lived on earth and worked enthu-
siastically for psychical research, continuing their
labours from the other side, and making strenuous
endeavours to prove their identity.
But feelings are not enough, in fact, they should be
sternly put aside by those who seek scientific knowledge.
I shall have to speak of the dramatic personation later
and try to assess its evidential value, but until it has
been subjected to severe criticism its persuasive
influence must be discounted.
Briefly, the plan which purports to have been devised
by Myers and his associates on the other side is as
follows.
Suppose a message in cryptic terms be transmitted
through one automatist, and another message, equally
incomprehensible, through a second at about the same
time, and suppose that each automatist was ignorant
34 PLAN OF CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
of what the other was writing, we have then two mean-
ingless messages entirely disconnected with each other.
Now, if a third automatist were to produce a script
which, while meaningless taken by itself, acts as a clue
to the other two, so that the whole set could be brought
together into one whole, and then show a single
purpose and meaning, we should have good evidence
that they all originated from a single source. .
It may be looked at like this. Two people are each
given one piece of a jigsaw puzzle, taken separately
each piece is meaningless, nor will they fit each other.
A third person is then given a third piece, and when the
pieces are all brought together, it is found that they
not only fit each other, but that when fitted they
exhibit a coherent picture showing evidence of design
and purpose.
It is quite obvious that telep~thy between the auto-
matists, in so far as their supraliminal knowledge is
concerned, would not explain these facts, for none of
them is able to understand the meaning of their own
particular fragment, and so could not possibly convey
to the other automatists the knowledge required to
supply the missing portions. In most cases the puzzle
- for the very essence of the whole thing is that they
are puzzles - has been solved by an independent inves-
tigator, in fact, frequently the automatists themselves
have remained in ignorance of any scripts but their
own.
It is true that this independent source might possibly
be the subliminal mind of one of the automatists, or
that of some living person. We can only form a tentative
decision on this point when we have studied the actual
PLAN OF CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 35
cases as we have to rely entirely on internal evidence,
i.e. the nature and characteristics of the messages.
A case such as this where three automatists are
concerned would be the ideal type of Cross Corres-
pondence, as they are called, and it must be admitted
that up to the present no perfect example has been
found.
A less convincing form of cross correspondence would
be where two automatists independently produce
scripts which, taken separately, are meaningless, but
when put together are found to be complementary and
mutually explanatory. Of this type we have several
good examples.
Besides these cross correspondences there are a large
number of instances where the script of two or more
automatists has references to the same subject at about
the same time. In such cases the complementariness is
reduced to simple reference to a single topic, and, in the
absence of other evidence, we should have no hesitation
in explaining them, provisionally at least - for all
explanations are provisional at the present stage of our
knowledge - as being due to telepathy between the
automatists.
That telepathy does occur I have little doubt, but
the cases seem to form a series of ascending corp.plexity
until we reach a point at which the hypothesis of simple
telepathy fails. Where the line should be drawn it is
impossible to say.
This, then, is the scheme or plan which, by their own
account, was invented by the communicators on the
other side, and we have passages in the scripts to bear
this out. For example, the automatist is sometimes
36 PLAN OF CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
exhorted 'to weave together' and told that singly they
can do little. In Mrs. Verrall's script we find : Record
the bits and whenfitted they will make the whole;
1 again, I
will give the words between
you neitheralonecan read but
togetherthey will give the cluehe wants.2
Moreover, there occurs in several instances instruc-
tions to the automatist to send her script, either to one
of the other automatists, or else to one of the investi-
gators, in fact, it was on account of such instructions
that in one or two cases the automatists were first
brought together.
I will conclude these preliminary explanations by
quoting a few passages from a paper by Miss Alice
Johnson, Proceedings,
Vol. XXI, June, 1908, wherein
the theory of Cross Correspondences is fully discussed
for the first time. On page 375, she says: 'The charac-
teristic of these cases - or at least of some of them - is
that we do not get in the writing of one automatist
anything like a mechanical verbatim reproduction of
phrases in the other; we do not even get the same idea
expressed in different ways - as well might result from
direct telepathy between them. What we get is a
fragmentary utterance in one script, which seems to
have no particular point or meaning, and another
fragmentary utterance in the other, of an equally point-
less character; but when we put the two together, we
see that they supplement one another, and that there is
apparently one coherent idea underlying both, but only
partially expressed in each.' On page 377, she writes:
'Now, granted the possibility of communication, it
may be supposed that within the last few years a certain
'Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXI, p. 385. • ibid., p. 382.
PLAN OF CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 37
group of persons have been trying to communicate with
us, who are sufficien1y well instructed to know all the
objections that reasonable sceptics have urged against
the previous evidence, and sufficiently intelligent to
realize to the full an the force of these objections. It
:: :i::~p{h~s;f a:hr: c~:::~c;;;;~;;n~::~e:~~:t:ee~
the sceptic's objecti6ns ....
'We have reason to believe ... that tlie idea of
making a statement in one script complementaryof a
statement in anotheri had not occurred to Mr. Myers in
his lifetime, for there is no reference to it in any of his
written utterances on the subject that I have been able
to discover. . . . Neither did those who have been
investigating automatic script since his death invent
this plan, if plan it 8e. It was not the automatists that
detected it, but a student of the scripts; it has every
appearance of being in element imported from outside;
it suggests an independent invention, an active intel-
ligence constantly at work in the present, not a mere
echo or remnant of individualities of the past.' And
on page 389, 'Assuming that the controls are actually
trying to communicate some definite idea by means of
two different automatists, whom at the same time they
were trying to prevent from communicating tele-
pathically with one another, what the controls have to
do is to express the factors of the idea in so veiled a form
that each writer indites her own share without under-
standing it. Yet the expression must be so definite that,
when once the clue is found, no room is left for doubt
as to the proper interpretation.
'It will be seen that, ex hypothesi,the idea must be
38 PLAN OF CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
prevented from reaching the subliminal consciousness
of the automatists; yet we cannot be certain in any
case that it has been so prevented, as we can only
interrogate their supraliminal consciousnesses. It is
conceivable, however, that the controls are more
capable than living persons of m,anipulating their own
telepathic faculties. Just as we in ordinary conversation
can say what we like and abstain from saying what we
wish not to say; so it is possible that the controls can
telepathically convey certain things to the automatists,
stopping short at whatever point they choose, and thus
excluding subliminal comprehension of the underlying
ideas.'
CHAPTER IV
I NOW propose to give a selection from the large mass
of evidence which is contained in the Volumes of
Proceedings
of the S.P.R., from about 1906 until 1917.
I shall be able to give only very condensed summaries
of the cases, the original reports being in many instances
very long; moreover, I shall quote only some half a
dozen or so of each class. It has been a difficult task to
condense these reports so as to present a fairly adequate
picture; many of them are extremely complicated, most
involve reference to classical and literary topics and in
some instances the evidential value turns upon some
subtle point of classical scholarship or literary criticism,
so that it may be doubted whether the full strength can
be appreciated by the reader who is not versed in these
subjects. However, the investigators have explained
fully their reasons for the conclusions at which they have
arrived, in language which makes it possible for the
ordinary reader to understand, even if he may not fully
appreciate. He may not be able to judge from his own
knowledge whether these reasons be good or not, that
must be left to the experts.
Still, apart from these difficult points of classical
erudition, there is a very large mass of facts concerning
which the ordinary reader can pass judgment. If an
impartial consideration of these facts should tend to
support the findings of the investigators, then it may
reasonably be held that the interpretation which they
39
40 SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
have put upon the obscure passages - an interpretation
which is in accord with those findings - gains con-
siderably in plausibility.
As regards the omission of the great number of the
cases from the account given here, I do not think that
this need in any way prejudice the reader in forming
his judgment. I have selected what I consider to be a
fair representative sample and have included those
cases which throw light on some special points, such
as modusoperandi.
To repeat the same thing over and over again would
not help in any way unless we should accept the canon
of evidence laid down by Lewis Carroll in Hunting the
Snark, 'What I say three times is true.'
If a sufficient number of actual cases is cited to give
the reader a thorough knowledge of the general
characteristics, and if he knows that these cases are only
a few out of many similar ones, he is just as well able
to form a judgment as he would be if he had waded
through the entire series. When an expert judges a
cargo of wheat he does not examine each bag but takes
a representative sample and decides on that.
I shall first give a selection of incidents which tend to
show, on the face of them, that some telepathic exchange,
whether it was pure telepathy or thought reading, takes
place between the automatists, or that one automatist,
by clairvoyance, obtained knowledge concerning
another's script.
I must repeat here that in postulating telepathy or
clairvoyance we are simply giving names to phenomena
which we do not in the least understand; we have not,
in the strict sense, explained them. But as there is a
Sllv,{PLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 41
very large mass of first-class evidence which goes to
show that transference of impressions and -acquisition
of knowledge does occur by means other than the
normal senses, we are compelled by the rules of scientific
procedure to class together all cases which can be
brought under these headings rather than to assume
that they belong to a different type which involves the
co-operation of an additional factor external to the
percipient and the agent.
But I think that we shall see, as we go along, that the
cases get more and more complex, and that the diffi-
culty of accounting for the facts by the supernormal
transference of information, or by the supernormal
acquisition of knowledge by the automatist without
external assistance, grows progessively greater.
In my opinion we soon reach a point where the
hypotheses of simple telepathy and clairvoyance
become so strained that they are untenable, provided
that some other not too intrinsically improbable
explanation can be found.
The next class of cases are those of simple cross
correspondence; these are those where in the scripts of
two or more automatists there occurs the same word or
phrase, or else two phrases so similar as to be clearly
interconnected.
Of course, it is obvious that these words or phrases
must be in some way marked out as being intended to
be cross-correspondences, the mere occurrence of two
phrases in common use in the scripts of two automatists
would be of no evidential value whatsoever, it must
frequently happen by chance.
As with the first class of cases, we shall see that these
D
42 SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
grow progressively more complex, and that the dividing
line between them and the succeeding class cannot be
drawn with any degree of certainty.
This succeeding class is that of complex cross
correspondences : these are .cases where the topic or
topics are not directly mentioned, but referred to in an
indirect and allusive way. As a general rule these
references are made by means of quotations from
classical or literary sources, or else by mention of some
other topic which is connected by association with the
one originally given.
I will give a fanciful example of what is meant by a
complex cross correspondence. Suppose that the topic
chosen was 'Time.' Automatist A, might start the ball
rolling by a quotation fro{n the hymn, 'Like an ever-
rolling stream.' Automatist B might follow on with a
quotation from Alice in Wonderland dealing with the
discussion concerning Time at _the Mad Hatter's tea-
table, e.g. 'He won't stand beating,' or, 'We quarrelled
last March - just before he went mad, you know' and
then, Automatist C gives the clue with 'Time and tide
wait for no man.' If the investigator were to recognize
the source of these quotations, he would see that there
was a common idea in all of them, viz. Time. This
would, of course, be an extremely simple example, but
it may serve to make the underlying idea clear. Most
of the actual cases are far more subtle and it was not
until after much research that the connections were
discovered. It is probable that even now a good many
have been overlooked.
To solve puzzles devised by a scholar such as Myers,
required investigators endowed with considerable
SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 43
knowledge, even if they were not all of them com-
parable with him in scholarship.
Dr. Verrall was a classical scholar of a high order,
and although he was not, strictly speaking, one of the
investigators, he gave advice and assistance. Mrs.
Verrall was, as has been mentioned, lecturer in classics
at Newnham, and among the others were some whose
knowledge of classical literature was extensive.
In what follows I shall adopt the methods of ter-
minology of the original reports. The writers of the
automatic scripts are termed automatists, and this
name is also applied to Mrs. Piper, who, although a
trance medium, produces the bulk of her material in
writing. As has already been explained, she speaks
while coming out of trance, and anything taken
from what is then said will be referred to as 'waking
stage.'
Script is the word usually used for the writing of the
automatists, and this includes the drawings which are
frequently made in the same automatic fashion.
Those personalities, or rather, one should say, those
purporting personalities who inspire or produce the
script through the hands of the automatists, are usually
spoken of as communicators. Where it is possible to
distinguish one communicator from another and to
identify him, he will be called by the name which he
claims to bear with a suffix letter. Thus Myersp stands
for that, whatever it is, which inspires thos~ scripts
of Mrs. Piper which purport to be the work of the
surviving spirit of Fred Myers; similarly, Myersv stands
for the author of similar communications through
Mrs. Verrall. The suffixes H.V stands for Miss Helen
44 SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
Verrall's communicators, H for Mrs. Holland's and W
for Mrs. Willett's.
When the name Fred Myers or Myers alone is used,
it must be understood that the living man of that name
is being referred to. The other communicators,
Hodgson, Gurney, Sidgwick and the rest, are treated
in the same way.
It must be clearly understood that this terminology
is adopted solely for the sake of convenience and
brevity. It does not imply any acceptance of the hypo-
thesis that the scripts originate from, or are inspired
by, the surviving personalities which are named or,
indeed, from any personality external to the mind of
the automatist.
That they are so inspired is the constant claim made
by the scripts themselves, but this cannot be accepted
prior to investigation of the evidence, in fact, it is solely
to test this claim that the whole investigation was
undertaken.
Thus, though we may speak of Myersp or any other
communicator saying or writing so and so, it is always
with the definite reservation that no such personality
may exist at all as a separate entity.
To adopt any other terminology would, however,
entail such ponderous and tiresome circumlocutions
that the reader would soon become wearied of reading
over and over again the same set of conditioning
clauses.
The identification of the communicator is frequently
easily made, because the scripts are signed, or else the
name is given; when in Mrs. Willett's scripts Myers
purports to communicate, the name Myers will appear
SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 45
sometimes three or four times in one paragraph. There
is also in some cases a difference in handwriting, though
there is not always any resemblance with the actual
handwriting of the communicator when living. With
Mrs. Holland, MyersH usually prefers a pencil, while
GurneyH uses a pen.
Identification can also be made with a fair degree of
certainty in many instances from the general charac-
teristics of the script. The dramatic characterization
is sometimes very high, and there is, on the whole,
great consistency throughout the scripts of one auto-
matist, though it must be admitted that the charac-
terization ofMyersv, for example, does not always tally
with that of MyersH or Myersw, nor is it always a true
portrayal of the man himself as he was known by his
friends in life.
I shall discuss this point at some length in my con-
cluding chapter.
I will commence by giving extracts from a script of
Mrs. Holland, November 7th, 1903,1 purporting to
come from Myers. (It should be remembered that Mrs.
Holland had read Human Personalityfor the first time
in June, 1903.) It begins with a scrawl ending with the
initial F (Myers frequently signed himself in this way).
Mrs. Holland then wrote in her own hand, a question
to the communicator. My handfeels veryshaky- shallI let
it scrawl? MyersH replied: Yes let it go quitefreely just
exactlyas it likes, and then goes on, My Dear Mrs. Verrall
I am veryanxioustospeaktosomeof theoldfriends - Miss J. -
and to A. W. (Miss Johnson and Dr. A. W. Verrall are
meant). Then followed a long description of a man
• Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXI, p. 186.
46 SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
which was in the main accurate of Dr. Verrall, and an
address, 5, Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge. After some
matter, which neea not be repeated here, the address is
given again, and finally came the words : Send this to
Mrs. Verrall,5, SelwynGardens,Cambridge.
Mrs. Holland knew the name Mrs. Verrall, as it
occurs in Human Personality,but beyond that she had
no knowledge of her. She certainly did not know her
address, or even if there were such a place as Selwyn
Gardens, Cambridge. She had never been in Cam-
bridge.
It was this script which led to the association between
Mrs. Holland and Mrs. Verrall, an association from
which there arose many cross correspondences.
Now Fred Myers had lived in Cambridge and was an
intimate friend of the Verralls. If, therefore, he sur-
vived death and retained his interest in psychical
research, it is quite understandable that he should have
endeavoured to bring about this association so that he
might put into practice the scheme of cross correspon-
dences which he and his group had devised, and to
do this what better or more straightforward way
could have been chosen than to instruct one of the
automatists to send her script to the other, giving both
name and address?
If the knowledge of the address did not come from
the surviving spirit of Myers, an alternative must be
found.
Mrs. Holland had been in communication with Miss
Alice Johnson on the subject of automatic writing, and
Miss Johnson, of course, knew Mrs. Verrall very well
as another automatist, so it was possible that the
SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 47
information was conveyed telepathically by her. It is
not likely that it came from Mrs. Verrall direct, as she
had not heard of Mrs. Holland at that time.
If it was not telepathy from Miss Johnson, we can
only suggest that it was either telepathy from some
unknown person, or else that Mrs. Holland somehow
or other perceived the address by clairvoyance.
A few weeks previously to this, Mrs. Holland's script
contained a detailed description of a room which she
was unable to recognize. 1 Miss Johnson, to whom the
script was sent, was equally at a loss. However, some
two years later Mrs. Verrall happened to be reading it
and at once recognized the room described as being her
dining-room. The description was correct in every
respect but one, viz., that there was a bust on a pedestal;
it was curious that a friend of Mrs. Verrall's on being
told of this description, said : 'But there is a bust in
your dining-room.' He had apparently mistaken a
filter, which stood in a dark corner of the room, for a
bust.
Now, if this knowledge was acquired clairvoyantly
by Mrs. Holland, and if clairvoyance be somehow or
other analogous to ordinary vision, it seems quite
possible that she had made the same mistake. On the
other hand, the message purports to come from Myers,
so it might be that the mistake was his.
On January 5th, 1904, MyersH described in the
script a woman in some detail. 2
On }{arch 22nd follow-
ing, Mrs. Holland had an impression which corres-
ponded very nearly with the description, but contained
other details. 3
Both these were sent to MissJohnson who
'Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXI, p. 194. •ibid., p. 212. 'ibid., p. 257.
48 SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
recognized them as mainly correct of Mrs. Verrall,
with which opinion Mrs. Verrall herself agreed.
It must be remembered that at this time Mrs.
Holland had not met Mrs. Verrall, and only knew of
her through having seen her name mentioned in
Human Personality,and from Miss Johnson's letters.
In subsequent scripts there were several instances of
supernormal knowledge of Mrs. Verrall and her
doings. It is not necessary to quote all these in full. I
will give just one instance.
On March 28th, 1906,1 the script contained the
words, A new dressnot a blackonethis time. Mrs. Verrall
notes on this (April 10th, 1906): 'Some time ago, I
think on February 2nd, I called on my dressmaker to
arrange for an evening dress, which I intended should
be black. She, however, insisted on a colour, and I
eventually agreed. About March 11th, I appointed
March 31st to be fitted.'
All these incidents can be explained on the hypo-
thesis of telepathy between Mrs. Holland and Mrs.
Verrall, or clairvoyance on the part of Mrs. Holland,
and had they stood alone, we should have been com-
pelled, by the canons of scientific procedure, to accept
that explanation provisionally.
If, however, we find other incidents in the scripts
which would necessitate a considerable stretching of
the hypothesis to make it cover the facts, it will throw
some doubt upon it as a valid explanation.
Here is another incident which looks, on the face of it,
like simple telepathy. 2 Mrs. Forbes had tried, as an
'Proc., S.P.R.,~Vol. XXI, p. 339.
'Proc., S.P.R.,lVol. XX, p. 256, et seq.
SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 49
experiment, to impress Mrs. Verrall with the idea of
lilies and this had failed. About a month later Miss
Verrall, who knew nothing about the experiment, had
the following in her script. If you had seenherpicking
liliesyou wouldhave understood,
and, the houseis largeand
thereis a belt efrhododendrons.
In thenorthyou haveseenit.
Notyou, I mean, but Mrs. Forbes. In reply to questions,
Mrs. Forbes said : 'I looked at the lilies and cut some,
and mentally asked if it would be possible to tell our
friends at Cambridge (the Verralls) about them. We
have been planting a belt ofrhododendrons to the north
of the garden.' Both Mrs. and Miss Verrall were
ignorant of this latter fact.
In the next case the hypothesis of telepathy becomes
a little strained. 1 On April roth, 1903, Mrs. Forbes
wrote automatically: Willyou be so goodas to write- to
arriveto-morrow
- to tell Mrs. Verrallour lettermust be read
with onewordcorrected,
whichmeansmore. E.G. (Edmund
Gurney). A growerefflowers oneyear will be a sower of
seed. Send the message. Then followed instructions for
Miss Verrall to write with planchette. Neither Mrs.
Forbes nor Mrs. Verrall could make any sense of this
message, but Miss Verrall explained it at once. She had
been staying with a· friend who was a professional
gardener and during her stay there was much dis-
cussion over a suggestion made by her friend's new
head man, that certain plants should be grown from
seed instead of from cuttings as hitherto. The new
man was particularly skilled in raising plants from
seed.
If this was due to telepathy, it was not between Mrs.
'Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XX, p. 254.
50 SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
Verrall and Mrs. Forbes, but the agent was presumably
Miss Verrall.
I am not keeping to the chronological order in giving
these examples, but rather picking out those incidents
which will illustrate the point which I am wishing to
make, viz., the difficulty of explaining the information
shown in the scripts on the hypothesis ofsimple telepathy.
Beginning in March, 1901,1 Mrs. Verrall's script
contained what she took to be references to Mrs.
Forbes; on March 21st it contained the Latin words,
Ne falle rogatricem(Do not fail (?) her who asks). On
March 24th, Mrs. Forbes writing with planchette with
another person had, Tell Mrs. Verrallto sendyou herlast
writing. There is, therefore, a possible connection
between the two scripts.
On August 28th Mrs. Verrall wrote automatically,
words in Latin, of which the translation is : Sign with the
seal. The.fir-treethat has alreadybeenplanted in thegarden
gives its own portent. Then followed some scrawls and
drawings of a sword and a suspended biJgle.
The suspended bugle is part of the badge of the
regiment to which Talbot Forbes, Mrs. Forbes's
deceased son, who purported to communicate through
her, belonged. Mrs. Forbes had in her garden four or
five fir-trees grown from seed which had been sent her
by her son, and were called by her Talbot's trees. This
was unknown to Mrs. Verrall.
On the same day Mrs. Forbes's script contained the
statement that her son was looking for a 'sensitive' who
wrote automatically so that he might obtain corrobora-
tio.n of her writing. Thus, though the same subject was
'Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XX, p. 222, et seq.
SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 5 r
not mentioned in both scripts, there appears to be a
connection between them.
The next case1 which I shall quote, is of a more
advanced type, and for it we must introduce Mrs.
Piper for the first time.
On January 31st, 1902, Mrs. Verrall wrote, auto-
matically: Panopticon,
then in Greek characters, sphairas
atitallei syndegmamystikon ti ouk edidos. (Latin) volatile
ferrum - pro telo impinget. The whole quasi-Greek
sentence appears to mean something like 'universal
seeing of a sphere fosters the mystic joint reception.'
Volatile ferrum = flying iron, and is used in Virgil for
'spear,' 'pro telo' = for a weapon, 'impinget' = will
hit.
The whole thing seemed nonsense to Mrs. Verrall,
and she was unable to make anything out of it.
Mrs. Piper was at this time at Boston, U.S.A., and at
a sitting with Dr. Hodgson on January 28th, 1902, he
suggested to the control that he should try to appear to
Miss Verrall holding a spear in his hand. The control
evidently misunderstood, for he asked : 'Why a sphere?'
Dr. Hodgson repeated the word 'spear' and the control
said that the experiment should be tried for a week.
On February 4th, at the next sitting, the control
claimed to have been successful, but he spelled the word
'sphear.' It was evident that the misunderstanding still
persisted to some extent. Although the claim to have
appeared was false, it seems to be much beyond chance
that Mrs. Verrall should have in her script, only three
days later, both the Greek word for sphere a:r;ida Latin
phrase meaning spear.
• Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XX, p. 213, et seq.
52 SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
Here the hypothesis of simple telepathy requires very
considerable stretching to make it cover the facts.
First, the message reaches Mrs. Verrall instead of Miss
Verrall. I do not think that any stress can be laid on
this, for the same thing frequently happened; it seemed
as though the communicators were either indifferent,
which of the two automatists they used, simply taking
whichever was available, or else that they were actually
not always able to distinguish. In any case, telepathic
messages do sometimes miss their proper targets and hit
another; until we know more of the conditions in which
it occurs, no explanation of the reason for this can be
suggested.
A far more formidable objection to the telepathic
hypothesis rests on the form in which the message was
received. Mrs. Piper knows no Greek or Latin, Dr.
Hodgson might have known the Greek for sphere and
Virgil's use of 'volatile ferrum' for spear, but the
message which he would have intended to send would
have been of spear alone. It is true that the confusion
between the words which Mrs. Piper's control had
made might have been transferred to his mind, but it
does not seem very likely; moreover, there appears to
be no reason why he should use Greek and Latin
instead of English, the more so as the impression which
it was desired to convey was a visual and not a verbal
one.
As regards the percipient, it might have been that
the· translation into Greek and Latin was performed
by her subliminal mind, but it is curious that such
translation should have resulted in what appeared to
her as mere nonsense. I do not say that it is impossible,
SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 53
or even highly improbable, only that it is curious and
involves an added difficulty to the telepathic hypothesis.
If, on the other hand, one considers the view suggested
by the communicators, the whole thing appears to be
more reasonable. Myers undoubtedly had the neces-
sary knowledge of Greek and Latin and if he desired,
in accordance with the scheme of cross correspondences,
to convey the message in an indirect and allusive form,
he certainly succeeded in doing so, although I cannot
see any reason why he should have made it into
nonsense; anyone equipped with the classical and
literary erudition of Fred Myers would, one would
imagine, have made a much neater job of it.
In studying these scripts one comes constantly up
against this difficulty, viz., that so much consists of
disjointed fragmentary sort of matter. It is true that
with most of the automatists we do get long coherent
passages sometimes, showing high intellectual power
and a comprehension of the difficulties of the problem,
but there is also a great amount of apparent nonsense,
and it is in this part that we find most of the evidential
matter.
I do not think that it can be said of the automatists,
with the exception of Mrs. Piper, that the intellectual
level of the scripts was ever higher than could be
attributed to them, they were all cultured and well-
read women, so that it is not beyond the bounds of
possibility that the source from which these portions
of the script were drawn was the subliminal mind of
the automatist.
Moreover, when we consider the case of Mrs. Piper
and those passages which show intellectual attainment
54 SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
beyond her reach, it must be remembered that the
sitters were in nearly every case persons of culture and
learning, so that if we concede the possibility of tele-
pathic exchange between medium and sitter, we can
account for the phenomena by regarding the sub-
liminal mind of the sitter as the source of the knowledge
shown.
We are, therefore, in something of a dilemma. If
the source of the scripts were really the surviving
personalities of Myers and his friends, how was it that
they were able to transmit through the automatists
clear and logical disquisitions on the theoretical side of
the subject, yet when it came to getting through the
more important evidential matter, they were able to
make only what, in my opinion, must be considered a
rather poor job?
In this connection I quote here a passage from an
early script of Mrs. Holland 1 wherein MyersH describes
the conditions under which he labours. He writes:
The nearestsimileI canfind toexpressthedifficulties
of sending
a message
- is that I appearto be standingbehinda sheetof
frosted glass which blurs sight and deadenssounds- dictating
feebly to a reluctantand somewhatobtusesecretary.'
There are several such passages in these scripts : both
MyersHand GurneyH exhibit a tendency to scold the auto-
matist most unmercifully, and I think that it is great
tribute to Mrs. Holland that she accepted it all in good
part and continued to carry on in spite of these scoldings.
But, it may be said, if the secretary can receive these
long discourses without confusion, in spite of 'the
frosted glass,' why is it that the evidential parts are so
1
Proc.,S.P.R., Vol. XXI, p. 230.
SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 55
scrappy and muddled? Suppose that, on the other
hand, we ascribe the non-evidential parts of the script
to the subliminal mind of the automatist - and it is not
impossible that even the scoldings came from thence
- we are left with the problem of accounting for the
cross correspondences.
It may be, of course, that there are two sources from
which the messages come which operate in alternation,
or else are somehow mingled.
It has been suggested - and there are fairly good
grounds for the suggestion - that the communicators
are limited by the normal contents of the mind of the
automatist; thus, while Greek and Latin quotations
are freely given through Mrs. and Miss Verrall, who
are thoroughly conversant with those languages, it is
very rare to find them with Mrs. Holland and Mrs.
Willett, who normally know very little of the classics.
It must be looked upon as being partly a process of
selection from already available material, rather than
the introduction of entirely fresh matter from the
outside. We may think of the communicator surveying,
as it were, the contents of the mind of the automatist
and picking out such things as will best suit his purpose
to weave into the pattern he desires.
On this view, perhaps, we may gain a partial under-
standing and a possible explanation of the peculiar
character of the scripts. It is true that we do sometimes
find in the scripts evidence of knowledge which was
not normally in the possession of the automatist, but
we cannot ever exclude the possibility of its being
conveyed telepathically to her subliminal mind from
some living person.
56 SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
There is quite a good example of this in a script
cf Mrs. Holland's, January 7th, 1904.1 MyersH writes
therein : I want to make it thoroughlycleartoyou that the
eidolon
is notthespirit,onlythesimulacrum.He was discuss-
ing the question of apparitions and the views expressed
were similar to those held by Fred Myers, as were given
fully in a chapter on 'Phantasms of the Dead' in Human
Personality. As Mrs. Holland had read this book, we
may suppose that her memory of it was the source from
which this script was derived, except for the combined
use of the words 'eidolon' and 'simulacrum,' which
does not occur in that chapter. Mrs. Verrall, on read-
ing the script, pointed out that these words were used
in a correct and scholarly style, such as would not
normally be expected from one who, like Mrs. Holland,
is not a classical scholar. But this usage would have been
appropriate for Myers himself, familiar as he was with
Homer and Lucretius wherein they occur.
The next incident which I shall summarize, intro-
duces a fresh type of puzzle. On March 7th, 1906,
Mrs. Verrall's script 2 contained an original poem,
commencing with the words:
Tintagel and the sea that moaned in pain.
When Miss Johnson read this she was struck with its
similarity with a poem by Roden Noel, entitled
'Tintadgel,' which, to the best of her recollection, Mrs.
Verrall had never read.
On March rrth, 1906, Mrs. Holland's script con-
tained: This isfor A. W. Ask him whatthedateMay 26th,
r894, meantto him - to me- and to F. W. H. M. I do not
'Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXI, p. 215, et seq. 'ibid ., p. 317, et seq.
SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 57
think that theywillfind it hard to recall,but if so- let them
ask Nora. -
The date given, which conveyed nothing to Mrs.
Holland, is that of the death of Roden Noel; the
initials A. W. refer to Dr. Verrall, F. W. H. M. is, of
course, Myers, both of whom knew Noel, though not
intimately. Nora means Mrs. Sidgwick and the
instruction to ask her is singularly appropriate as Noel
was an intimate friend of Dr. Sidgwick.
On March 14th, r 906, before any of these facts were
known to Mrs. Holland, she wrote, automatically:
Eighteen,fifteen,four, five, fourteen, Fourteen,
fifteen,five,
twelve. Not to be takenas theystand. SeeRev. r3, r8, but
onl,ythecentraleightwords,notthewholepassage.
Mrs. Holland did not look up the text, and the whole
thing was quite meaningless to her. But Miss Johnson
did do so, and found that the central eight words were:
'for it is the number of a man.' Acting on this hint,
she translated the numbers given in the script into
letters of the alphabet, and found that they spelled
Roden Noel, R being the eighteenth letter, and so
on.
It should be said, however, that in a script of
February 9th, 1906,1 i.e. about a month earlier Mrs.
Holland had written another list of numbers which
had, in the same way, given the name of Richard
Hodgson, 2 and that this had been pointed out to her
by Miss Johnson, so that it is possible that while the
Roden Noel message meant nothing to her normally,
it was understood subliminally.
1
Proc.,S.P.R., Vol. XXI, p. 304.
'Dr. Richard Hodgson, died December 20th, 1905.
E
58 SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
There was a further reference to Roden Noel in her
script of March 21st, 1906, and in Mrs. Verrall's of
March 26th,, 1906. On March 28th, 1906, Mrs.
Holland's script contained the name Roden Noel
written out in full, a reference to Cornwall which was
appropriate for him, and a description of him which
was partially correct.
I must not occupy much further space with these
cases of simple cross correspondence, but will conclude
this section by summarizing briefly, a further two or
three characteristic cases. The first is on the word
'Arrow' and can be summarized best by the following
table, which gives all the necessary facts in brief. 1
Feb. 11th, 1907-Mrs. Verrall'sscripthasadrawingofthree
converging arrows, followed by the words : 'Tria conver-
gentia in unum.'
Feb. 12th - Hodgsonp says he has given 'Arrow' to Mrs.
Verrall.
Feb. 13th- Mr. Piddington sees Mrs. Verrall's script of
February I Ith.
Feb. 17th-Miss Verrall's script has a drawing ofan arrow,
followed by the words 'many together.'
Feb. 18th about I r.15 a.m. - Mrs. Verrall's script has
several words beginning with ' a' and ' ar' such as
'architrave,' 'arch,' etc.
Feb. 18th, about I r.30 a.m. - Hodgsonp reminds Mr.
Piddington to 'watch for arrow.'
Feb. 19th, 10.55 a.m. - Mr. Piddington sees Mrs. Verrall's
script of 18th and Miss Verrall's of 17th.
Feb. 19th, I r.20 a.m. - Hodgsonp says Mrs. Verrall wrote
'ar' and 'w.'
Feb. 20th - Mr. Piddington tells Hodgsonp that Mrs.
Verrall has written several words beginning with 'ar.'
•Proc.,S.P.R., Vol. XXII, p. 77, et seq.
SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 59
Feb. 25th-Hodgsonp asks: 'Got arrow yet?' Mr. Pid-
dington says Mrs. Verrall has not written the word, but
has drawn an arrow. Hodgsonp says he will make a
further attempt to make Mrs. Verrall write 'arrow.'
Mar. 18th - Mrs. Verrall's script has a drawing of a bow
and arrow, an arrow, and a target.
June 4th - Mrs. Verrall learns for the first time that 'arrow'
has been the subject ofa cross-correspondenceexperiment.
Laurel and laurel wreath form the subject of a simple
cross correspondence. 1 On February 26th, 1907, in the
waking stage of Mrs. Piper's trance, the word 'laurel'
was repeated several times, and I gaveher thatfor laurel
said. (When 'I gave her' is thus used it refers to Mrs.
Verrall.) On February 27th, Myersp said: I gaveMrs.
Verralllaurel wreath. On February 6th, Mrs. Verrall's
script had: Laura and another. Thereis a greatobstruction
this morning (probably referring to the automatic
writing). Apollo's laurel bough (twice given), Laureatus
(Latin = laurelled), A laurel wreath, then a drawing
representing a laurel wreath, coronalaureata (Latin =
laurel crown), With laurel wreath his brow serenewas
crowned,and a laurelcrown.
Neither the word 'laurel' nor 'wreath' occurs else-
where in Mrs. Verrall's scripts of this period.
On March 17th, Miss Verrall's script contained the
words: Laurelleaves
areemblem. Laurel
for thevictor'sbrow.
This is the only occurrence of the word 'laurel' in her
scripts of this period.
Some of these passages are included in another cross-
correspondence, viz., the 'Medici Tombs' case, which I
shall summarize later.
'Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXII, p. 94, et seq.
60 SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
Thanatos.
1 In the waking stage of Mrs. Piper's trance
on April 17th, 1907, a word was spoken which was at
first heard as Sanatos,and then repeated as Tanatos. Mrs.
Sidgwick, the sitter, inserted a note on the record to
the effect that 'Thanatos' was probably meant. On
April 23rd, again in the waking stage, it was correctly
pronounced as 'Thanatos,' on April 30th it was said
three times and on May 7th, I wanttosay Thanatoscame
again in the waking stage.
Thanatos is a Greek word meaning 'Death.'
Repetition of a word in this disconnected fashion is
usually a sign that it has been used for a cross corres-
pondence.
On April 16th, 1907, Mrs. Holland, in India, had in
her script : MauriceMorrisMars. And with thattheshadow
of death
fell uponhis limbs.
'Maurice Morris' are probably first attempts to get
the Latin word 'Mors' which, of course, means 'Death,'
the occurrence of the English word 'death' in the next
sentence points to this.
Mrs. Verrall's script of April 29th, 1907, had:
Warmedbothhandsbeforethefire of life. It fades andI am
readyto depart,then a drawing of a triangle or else the
Greek letter delta; then, Manibusdate!iliaplenis (Latin
for 'Give lilies with full hands'), a little later: Come
awqy, Comeaway, Pallida mors (Latin = pale death)
occurs in a sentence, and finally: You havegot the word
plainly writtenall alonginyour own writing. Look back.
Mrs. Verrall had always taken the Greek letter
'delta' as a sign for death. 'Mani bus date !ilia plenis'
is a quotation from the Aeneid where Anchises foretells
1
Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXII, p. 295, et seq.
SIMPLE CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 61
the early death of Marcellus. 'Come away, come away'
is, of course, from Shakespeare, and the next word in
the song is 'death.'
Thus we have the keyword given by three auto-
matists, and in three different languages, besides
allusive references.
If the coincidence of the idea were due to direct·
telepathy, Weshould hardly expect to find it take this
form.
The word 'death' only occurs once in Mrs. Verrall's
script of this period, and four times in Mrs. Holland's.
Finally, the 'Laus Deo' case.1 In the waking stage
of Mrs. Piper's trance of April 17th, 1907, the word
Lausteowas spoken, and then Laus Deo, the first word
being obviously an attempt at the latter.
It is quite clear that the communicators or controls
sometimes have to have two or three shots at a word
before getting it right, frequently one can see them
feeling their way by closer and closer approximations
(See 'sanatos,' 'tanatos' and 'Maurice, Morris, Mors.')
If one takes at their face value the accounts given by
the communicators of the conditions under which they
work, it is clear that they do not always know exactly
what has been got through, although they sometimes
seem to be aware that a shot has missed its mark.
On November 16th, 1906, Mrs. Verrall's script had:
Laus in aeternum,Deo_
Laus et Gratia. The cross corres-
pondence is obvious, though the time interval is some-
what long. The words appear only this once in Mrs.
Piper's trance and once in Mrs. Verrall's script of the
period.
1
Proc.,S.P.R., Vol. XXII, p. 304, et seq.
CHAPTER V
IN this chapter I propose to summarize, very briefly,
some half a dozen or so of the more complex and highly
developed cases. In some of those which I have given
under the heading of simple cross correspondences it
will have been noticed that the communicators go
beyond the mere repetition of a word or phrase through
two or more automatists, and approach the more
elaborate and complicated puzzles with which we have
now to deal. It is quite obvious that mere repetition
would not be evidence of anything beyond pure tele-
pathy or mind reading on the part of one or other of
the automatists concerned, but where the idea is
suggested by allusions, or conveyed in a disguised form,
then the telepathic hypothesis becomes more difficult
to sustain.
The original reports of the cases which I am about
to mention occupy many hundreds of pages in Proceed-
ings, and to appreciate fully all the various points
brought out by the investigators requires, not only
lengthy and close study, but also some considerable
knowledge of classical literature. It is quite certain,
therefore, that in the summaries to which the exigencies
of space confine me, a good deal of the evidential value
has been lost. In a way this may not be altogether a
bad thing, for it can be fairly said that I have not
overstated my case.
62
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 63
The first incident 1 to which I refer is, strictly speak-
ing, not a cross correspondence, but an experiment in
telepathy.
In April, 1901, Dr. A. W. Verrall decided to try an
experiment in telepathy with his wife, who had just
then begun automatic writing. Mrs. Verrall knew
nothing of his intentions or even that an experiment
was being tried.
He wrote down three Greek words which he tried to
convey to her telepathically, thinking that, should he
succeed in doing so, they might appear in her script.
These words were 'monopolon es ao.' This comes from
the 'Orestes' of Euripides, and is usually taken to mean
'to the one-horsed dawn,' the phrase 'one-horsed'
referring to the one-horsed car of the dawn, as dis-
tinguished from the four-horsed chariot of the sun in
Greek mythology. Dr. Verrall, however, was inclined to
translate the word 'monopolon' as 'solitarily wander-
ing.' It had occurred in a passage which was set in a
translation paper at an examination _forthe Cambridge
classical Tripos in which he was concerned many years
before. In June, 1go1, Mrs. Verrall's script had a
reference to the East, i.e. the quarter of the dawn. In
July, a Latin sentence describing an old man and
containing the Greek word 'monochitonos,'meaning
'with a single garment,' appeared, it also contained the
Latin word alba, used in the sense 'white.' In the
Greek word we may see an attempt at 'monopolon,'
the first part being correct, while the word 'alba' is a
late Latin word for 'dawn.' References to this old
1
Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XX, p. 156, et seq. See also Vol. XXX, p. 175,
et seq.
64 COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
man in a white robe appeared in many of the subsequent
scripts, but space forbids me to quote them.
On August 13th, there was a possible allusion in a
'crowing cock,' and a motto about dawn, and in the
next few scripts the idea was constantly cropping up.
On August 29th the Greek letters es were given, and
on September 2nd, es to, evidently an attempt at
'es ao,' this was followed by monostolos,
monochitonos,
monos. . . but I want thefinal word.
On September 7th moles to came in, and on Septem-
ber 9th, the cryptic sentence, Pye is also a bird but not
ours, and again, on September 12th, Pye gives one clue
but thereis another. The first attempt at 'monopolon' on
September 2nd, was very nearly correct, except that 'st'
stood in ·place of 'p' or rather the Greek 1t called 'pi.'
The sentences about 'pye' may, therefore, be looked
upon either as a kind of punning reference to this
error or else to a dreamlike association between the
missing letter and a bird; in either case it shows a
recognition of the letter wanted to complete the desired
word.
In all the above scripts we can see repeated attempts
to get through either the meaning, the sound, or the
spelling of the words, and the communicating agency,
whatever it may have been, seems perfectly aware that
it had failed. In many of the scripts these attempts are
accompanied by instructions to show them to A. W., or
else it is stated that A. W. will understand,
or A. W. must
besatisfied. Dr. Verrall was familiarly known as A. W.
by many of his undergraduate friends.
Before giving it up in despair another line of
approach is tried.
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 65
On September 9th, the following was written : Find
theherbMOLY that will help,it is a guide,then in Greek:
Seekandyou will.findat last. This conveyed no meaning
at first, although it was recognized that a reference was
made to a passage in Milton's Comus,running as follows:
'And yet more med'cinal it is than that moly
Which Hermes once to wise Ulyssesgave.'
It was only after some years that it was discovered
that the passage from Milton had been set as the
subject for Latin hexameters in the same Tripos
examination in which the phrase 'monopolon es ao'
was included. -
When it is considered that the subjects in these
examinations can be drawn from the whole range of
literature, it is obvious that this association in the
scripts of the word 'moly' with the test phrase could
hardly have been due to chance.
But the matter did not end there. It was not until
1918 that Mr. Piddington published a paper 1 giving
the results of his study of the case. He identified the
old man in white with Oedipus of the Greek tragedies
by Sophocles, and he claimed to show a consistent and
intelligible plan running through the whole.
He adduces very strong arguments, based on the
actual words used in the scripts, to show that 'these refer
to a footnote in Sir Richard Jebb's edition of the
Oedipus Tyrannus, and he argues that it is hard to
suppose that all this arose from the mind of Dr.
Verrall, who was concerned only with the transmission
by telepathy of a sentence of three words, and he
•Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXX, p. 175, et seq.
66 COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
suggests that the Myers group of communicators took
over, as it were, the management of the experiment,
and adapted it to their own purposes.
His argument is too long and too subtle to be sum-
marized here, involving, as it does, recondite points of
classical scholarship. Even apart from Mr. Pidding-
ton's theories, it is difficult to attribute this case to
simple telepathy, the constant shifting of the ground
and variation of expedient seems inconsistent with that
view.
I am painfully aware that the account here given is
woefully inadequate, and must seem to the reader to
be 'a bald and unconvincing narrative,' but the case is
so involved that nothing short of a prolonged and
careful study of the original reports can give anything
like an adequate appreciation of its value.
The next is called the 'Hope, Star and Browning'
case.1 This is a very complex case, involving Mrs. and
Miss Verrall, as well as Mrs. Piper.
In Mrs. Verrall's script of January 23rd, 1907, there
appeared : an anagram would be better. Tell him that - rats,
star, tars and so on ... or again, tears, stare. Then follows
an anagram which Mrs. Verrall subsequently remem-
bered as having been made by Myers, her husband
and Sir Richard Jebb.
On January 28th, her script starts, Aster (Latin =
star) Teras (in Greek characters, meaning wonder or a
sign). The world's wonder. And all a wonder and a wild
desire. The very wings of her. A WINGED DESIRE.
Upopteros eras (Greek = winged love). Then there is
• Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXII, p. 59, et seq., and Vol. XXVII, p. 28,
et seq.
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 67
Blake. And mockedmy lossof liberty. But it is all thesame
thing- the wingeddesire. Erospotheinos(Greek = love -
the much desired) thehopethatleavestheearthfor thesky -
Abt Vogler
for earthtoohardthatfound itself orlostitself - in
the sky. That is what I want. On earth the brokensounds
- threads- In the sky, theperfectarc. The C majorof this
life. But your recollectionis at fault. Then followed
drawings
-
A DB is thepart that unseencompletes
thearc.
Mrs. Verrall's note at the time was, 'January 29/07.
'Is the enclosed attempt at Bird? "winged" upopteros,
and Abt Vogler (Vogel) suggests it. The later part is
all quotations from R.B.'s Abt Voglerand earlier from
the Ring and the Book. "Oh Lyric Love, etc." '
On February 3rd, Miss Verrall, who knew nothing
of Mrs. Verrall's scripts, wrote, among other things: A
greenJerkin and hoseand doubletwherethe song birdspipe
their tune in the early morningtherapeutikos
ek exoticon(a
healer from aliens). Then followed a monogram and
drawings of a star and a crescent moon, with the words:
A monogram,the crescent
moon,remember
that, and the star.
After some other words, which I need not give, there
came a drawing of a bird.
On February 11th, Mr. Piddington was sitting with
Mrs. Piper and Myersp wrote: Did she (Mrs. Verrall)
68 COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
receive
the wordEvangelical? Mr. Piddington replied that
he did not know, and Myersp went on: I referredalso
to Browningagain. I referredto HopeandBrowning. . . I
also.said Star.
In a later sitting it was made clear that the word
'Evangelical' had been distorted in transmission, and
had been intended for 'Evelyn Hope,' the title of a
poem of Browning's.
On February 15th, Mrs. Verrall told her daughter
that a cross correspondence had been made, but in
order that her script should not be influenced, gave the
words as 'Planet Mars,' 'Virtue' and 'Keats,' instead
of 'Hope, star and Browning.'
On February 17th, Miss Verrall's script contained a
drawing of a star, then: That '?f)as
thesign she will under-
stand when she sees it. . . . No arts avail . . . and a star
aboveit all ratseverywhere
in Hamelintown.
On March 6th Myersp told Mr. Piddington that he
had given Mrs. Verrall a circle, and then attempts at
drawing a triangle were made, and he said: It did not
appear. He also said, in reply to a question by Mr.
Piddington, that he also wrote something about Bird
when he gave the circle.
Now Mr. Piddington had asked Myersp on January
r6th, 1907, if he would mark attempts at cross
correspondences in some way, say by drawing a circle
with a triangle inside, as a sign that one was being
attempted.
Myersp was evidently referring to Mrs. Verrall's
script ofJanuary 28th, quoted above, but was incorrect
in stating that the triangle had not appeared, he had
succeeded better than he knew.
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 69
The anagrams must first be explained. There is a
possible use for anagrams in automatic writing, for they
form a disguise for the word and thus prevent the mind
of the automatist from understanding immediately
what is being written. In this case, however, there may
be another explanation. Mr. Piddington, when going
through Dr. Richard Hodgson's papers, after his death,
came across a good many scraps of paper on which
anagrams had been worked out. He remembered this
when he read Mrs. Verrall's script and requested
Hodgson's executors to let him have these scraps. On
one of them he found the anagram, 'Arts, star, etc.,'
as well as the other anagram in the script.
He found, also, correspondence with Myers which
showed that he had been exchanging anagrams with
Hodgson for at least five or six years. Among this was
a post card dated 1896 on which Myers had written:
'As many more anagrammatic epigrams as you like.
F.W.H. M.' When it is remembered that Richard
Hodgson was one of the group of communicators with
Myers, the coincidence is, at least, suggestive.
The employment of this device of using anagrams to
conceal the meaning of what was being written from
the automatist would seem to come quite naturally
from both Myers and Hodgson, whereas it is not one
which would have normally occurred to Mrs. Verrall,
who was not particularly interested in them.
There is an obvious cross correspondence in these
scripts. Mrs. Verrall's first contains the word 'star,'
her second, 'aster,' the Latin for star, also a quotation
from Browning's poem 'Abt Vogler,' containing the
word 'hope,' which, by the way, is a misquotation, for
70 COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
it should be 'passion.' (It has been suggested that this
misquotation was deliberately done so as to draw
attention to the word. There are several other apparent
instances of the same thing in other scripts.) In Miss
Verrall's first script a star is drawn, and 'remember the
star' is written. In her second it is again drawn with
the words, 'that is the sign she will understand,' thus
corresponding with the Greek word, 'teras' in Mrs.
Verrall's script. (' Teras' is sometimes used in the
plural for a constellation), it is also an anagram for the
Latin word for star, 'aster.' The word 'arts' corres-
ponds with Mrs. Verrall's anagram for star. Then, 'a
star above it all,' and finally, 'rats everywhere in
Hamelin town,' brings in another of the anagram
words besides Browning, the author of the poem.
From Mrs. Piper we have the word 'Evangelical,'
later stated to have been a mistake for 'Evelyn Hope,'
which brings in the word 'hope' as well as the author of
the poem, Browning, also the direct statement by Myersp:
'I referred to Hope and Browning, I also said "Star." '
There are also some other less direct correspondences,
for example, in Miss Verrall's first script, the words _
'a healer from aliens' might have been a reference to
the Pied Piper, who obviously complies with this
description, moreover, there occurs in the previous
sentence the word 'pipe.'
In Mrs. Verrall's second script there are many
references to wings, e.g., 'the very wings of her,' 'a
winged desire,' etc., so much so, that she asks in her
note : 'Is enclosed attempt at Bird ?' In Miss Verrall's
script there is a drawing of a bird, followed by the
word 'bird.'
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 71
Then there is the drawing of the circle and triangle
in Mrs. Verrall's script, with its reference to Browning's
poem 'Abt Vogler,' 'In heaven the perfect arc, etc.',
and Myersp statement that he had given the circle
and said 'Bird' at the same time.
At a further sitting with Mrs. Piper on March 13th,
1907, Myersp repeats that he drew a circle for Mrs.
Verrall, then he drew a circle and triangle, and a
little later said : But it suggested a poem to my mind,
hence B
S (i.e., Browning, Hope, Star).
H
Finally, on April 8th, Mrs. Sidgwick had a sitting
with Mrs. Piper, whereat Myersp again repeats that he
drew a circle, and adds that he drew, or tried to draw,
a star, and finally says, 'also a crescent,' all of which
statements were correct, except that the star and
crescent were drawn for Miss Verrall and not for Mrs.
Verrall.
This case seems to fulfil the requirements for an
ideal cross correspondence pretty nearly. We have a
complex set of references made allusively and by
implication in the scripts of two automatists, so that,
taken by themselves, they are quite meaningless. In
the third, Mrs. Piper's, the words are given outright
and thus disclose the clue by means of which the whole
puzzle is made clear.
Although exact calculations cannot be made, it seems
pretty obvious that this result could not have been due
to chance alone.
I pause here in my account of the evidence to con-
sider briefly what implications can be seen to follow
from this case. I think that it is indisputable that the
72 COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
various scripts are interconnected, so that w.e must
suppose either that there was collusion between the
three automatists, or else that some directing agency
inspired them all. That there was collusion is so
fantastic an idea that it requires no discussion. What
then was the directing agency ? If it were one of the
automatists, the most plausible suggestion is that Mrs>
Verrall was the one responsible. Her scripts come first
in the point of time and initiate the whole thing. Yet,
as is shown by her note of January 29th, she had not,
at least in her supraliminal mind, recognized all the
topics involved, she took the chief reference to be to
'Bird,' which actually was only subordinate. It was
not until after the clue had been given in Mrs. Piper's
sitting of February r rth that she recognized the 'Hope,
star, Browning' motif.
We must, therefore, suppose that her subliminal
mind devised the complicated puzzle and carried it out
by incorporating parts in her own script, and tele-
pathically influencing her daughter to write other parts,
and Mrs. Piper to give the clue, while all the time her
normal consciousness remained in ignorance.
If it were not Mrs. Verrall who was responsible, we
must ascribe the authorship to some external intelli-
gence. It might have been, at least in theory, the
subliminal mind of some one living, but I venture to
think that it would be a difficult task to suggest any
plausible candidate for the office. If, however, we
accept the possibility of the continued activity of the
minds of deceased human beings, the explanation that
the scripts were inspired by Myers, or by him and other
members of his group, seems to cover all the facts.
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 73
In assessing the relative probabilities of these alterna-
tives we must bear in mind the use of the anagram
device. This, as has been said, would have been quite
natural for Myers and Hodgson, but, to say the least,
unexpected from Mrs. Verrall.
Autos ouranos akumon.
1 This incident also is an
extraordinarily complicated one. Mr. Piddington's
original report covers some sixty-five printed pages,
while a second by Miss Johnson, takes another fifty.
It all started with an idea of Mrs. Verrall's. It
occurred to her to put a test question to Myersp, and
she laid down the following conditions.
(r) It must be unintelligible to Mrs. Piper.
(2) It must be short.
(3) It must concern some subject with which Fred
Myers had been thoroughly familiar.
(4) The answer must be complex and require allu-
sions to several associations.
(5) It must be proved to have been known to Fred
Myers.
(6) Both question and answer must be connected
with subjects already mentioned by Myersv,
She finally hit upon the Greek phrase 'autos ouranos
akumon.' This is a quotation from the Neo-Platonist
philosopher, Plotinus, and means, 'The very heavens
waveless.' Plotinus, in describing the conditions
necessary for the attainment of ecstasy or communion
with the Divine, says that the individual soul 'must be
freed from deception and every kind of beguilement,
'Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXII, p. 107, et seq., and Proc., Vol. XXVII,
p. 77, et seq.
F
74 COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
and ,be in a state of peace, also that the earth must be
calm, the sea calm, and the air, and the very heaven
waveless.'
Mrs. Verrall chose it because the passage had been
used by Fred Myers as a motto for his poem on Tenny-
son, also a translation of it occurs in the second volume
of Human Personality,1further, that it seemed to be
conr1ected with a phrase that had occurred in one of
her scripts, viz. 'Celestial halcyon days.'
On January 29th, I 907, Mrs. Verrall, sitting with
Mrs. Piper, put the question to Myersp and spelled
over each word. On the next day Myersp mentioned
'larches' and 'laburnum' together. As it happened
this association brought Tennyson to Mrs. Verrall's
mind, both trees being mentioned in 'In Memoriam'
in striking passages.
It is, perhaps, significant that the verse in which
'larches' occurs, ends with the line: 'The sea-blue
bird of March,' i.e., the kingfisher or halcyon.
Shortly after this numerous references to Tennyson's
works appeared in Mrs. Verrall's script, containing
allusions to calm and serene spaces, thus, on February
12th Avilionwhereblowsnotanywindis quoted. This was
associated in the script with faery landsforlorn, which,
besides being a quotatio.n from Keats, is the title of a
poem by Myers, in which the words, 'that heaven high
vault serene' occur.
In this script several of Tennyson's poems are referred
to, viz., 'Voyage ofMaeldune,' 'Merlin and the Gleam,'
'The Passing of Arthur' and 'Lucretius.'
Fred Myers, in his lifetime, was an intimate friend
1
Human Personality,Vol. II, p. 291.
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 75
and great admirer of Tennyson, and was well acquainted
with his works. It was not until five years afterwards
that Mr. Piddington noticed that two of the quotations
in the script are derived from two different passages
in the 'Odyssey.'
On February 25th, there came another quotation
from Tennyson. The lucidinterspace
of worldand world.
On February 26th, Autos ouranosakumonwas written
in Greek characters, followed by, I think I havemadehim
(probably the control, Rector) understandbut the best
references
will be madeelsewhere,not Mrs. Piper at all. Of
course, this may have come from Mrs. Verrall's own
mind, and is not at all evidential in itself. It was
followed by : And may therebe no moaningof the bar- my
pilotface toface, and the names of Tennyson and Brown-
ing were given with comments on them, including the
words : After the earthquake
and thefire and the wind, in the
stillness comes the voice that can be heard, alluding,
obviously, to Elijah on Mount Horeb.
On March 6th came the words, the calm, the heavenly
and earthlycalm, and a quotation from 'In Memoriam,'
And in my heart,if calmat all. JJarrycalm,a calmdespair.
Finally, on March r rth her script combined allusions
to Plato and Tennyson, with phrases about unseenand
half-seen
companionship
- voiceless
communings
- unseen
presence
felt. -
These continual references to Tennyson's 'In
Memoriam' led Mrs. Verrall to suspect a more definite
connection between that poem and Plotinus, a connec-
tion which she finally traced, and concerning which she
published a paper in the Modern LanguagesReview,
July, 1907.
76 COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
Now Myers was well aware of the influence of
Plotinus on Tennyson, as is shown in his essay on
'Tennyson as a Prophet,' in which stress is laid on the
affinity between them. In a footnote in another book
Myers says that that essay was based partly upon
Tennyson's own conversation.
It will be seen how all these references, not only
contain the idea of heavenly calm, which is, of course,
the meaning of the Greek phrase, but also, in the case
of 'In Memoriam,' go even closer, for that poem has
definite connections with Plotinus; moreover, calm
is mentioned therein in connection with the poet's
trance when he seeks communion with his dead friend,
thus forming an exact parallel with the context of the
Greek words.
It should be observed that, although Mrs. Verrall
knew of the connection which the quotation from
Plotinus had with Tennyson through Myers, having
used it as a motto for his poem, she did not suspect
the much closer link which the scripts themselves led her
to discover. Fred Myers, however, was fully aware ofit.
We must now turn to the other side, viz. Mrs. Piper's
trance.
On March 6th, 1907, Myersp gave, without ex-
planation, these words : Cloudless
skyhorizon,followed by
a cloudlesssky beyondthe horizon; in the waking stage
following came the words : moaningat the bar whenI put
out to sea,also ArthurHallam, Goodbye.Margaret. (Mrs.
Verrall's name is Margaret.)
The question of cross correspondences had been
under discussion at this sitting.
On March 13th Myersp said: I saw Mrs. Verrall and
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 77
gavehera sign like this- then followed a rough drawing
- and said I have crossedit. He .explained, on being
questioned, that the drawing represented a bar.
Up to this time Mr. Piddington, the sitter with Mrs.
Piper, had no knowledge of Mrs. Verrall's scripts
concerning this matter, except one referring to 'cross-
ing the bar,' and a quotation from 'In Memoriam,'
which he did not recognize. He had not read 'Plotinus,'
nor Myers' poem on Tennyson, nor, although he read
Greek, did he know the exact meaning of the rare
word 'akumon' : it seems highly unlikely, therefore,
that the knowledge displayed in Mrs. Piper's trance
was derived from his mind.
As regards Mrs. Verrall, it must be noted that she had
not grasped the significance of the combination of quota-
tions from 'In Memoriam' and 'Crossing the Bar' until
after this sitting with Mrs. Piper, so that if the know-
ledge were derived from her mind, we must suppose that
she had subliminally seen the connection before she
discovered it normally.
Mrs. Verrall, herself, had a sitting with Mrs. Piper
on April 29th, and the words Azure and blue sea were
given, which were taken to be an association with
'halcyon days.'
At the end of the sitting there was a disconnected
reference to Swedenborg, St. Paul and Dante. Next day
Myersp claimed to have answered the question about
the Greek quotation, saying that it had reminded him
of Socrates and Homer's Iliad. _
The references to these names seemed at first to be
simply nonsense. But on May 1st Mrs. Ve~rall's script
contained the words : Eagle soaring over the tomb of
78 COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
Plato; this is a phrase descriptive of Plotinus quoted
in Myers' Human Personality.
1
This led her to investigate further, and she found that
in the Epilogue of that book the vision of Plotinus is
described, and is prefixed by a quotation from Plato's
Krito, in which the story of Socrates' vision of a fair,
white-robed woman is given. This woman speaks a
line from Homer's Iliad. Thus Plotinus had been
associated by Myers in his life with Socrates and Homer,
an association very unlikely to have been made by
anyone but a Greek scholar such as he was.
But a further, and even more significant discovery
was made. On the same page that contains the phrase
'eagle soaring over the tomb of Plato,' there is a list of
'the strong souls who have claimed to feel it' (ecstasy)
and among these, after Plotinus and before Tennyson
occur Swedenborg, St. Paul and Dante. We thus see
in the scripts and trance utterances a number of
unusual associations which had been made by Myers
in his lifetime.
And to conclude the business, on May 6th Mrs.
Sidgwick, sitting with Mrs. Piper, had intended to ask
Myersp again for the name of the author of the Greek
quotation, but he forestalled her by saying: Will you
sqy to Mrs. V. Plotinus? She asked : 'What is that?' and
Myersp replied: .A{yanswerto autosouranosakumon.
I have devoted a great deal of space to describing
this highly complex incident, because· it seems to me
to be one of the best examples which we have of the
complex type of cross correspondence. The knowledge
shown in the Piper sittings was completely outside Mrs.
1
Op. cit., Vol. II, p. 261.
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 79
Piper's own range, also was unknown to the sitter, Mr.
Piddington and to Mrs. Verrall, but it had been in
the possession of Fred Myers and was characteristic of
him.
The answers given were allusive and indirect, and
thus avoided the possibility of explanation by direct
telepathy, moreover, on more than one occasion the
scripts themselves gave guidance to the investigators by
supplying the necessary clues which led them to dis-
cover the associations, as, for example, when the phrase
'eagle soaring over the tomb of Plato' directed Mrs.
- Verrall's attention to that part of Human Personality
where she found the unlikely associations between
Plotinus, Socrates, Homer, Swedenborg, etc.
The next case which I shall summarize is far less
complex, it is the Euripides case.1
On March 4th, 1907, in Mrs. Verrall's script,
appeared, HerculesFurens(' The Mad Hercules,' a play
by Euripides). This was followed by a message to Dr.
Verrall about the play. Then: Ask elsewhere
for the
BoundHercules(an incident in the play is the binding of
Hercules to a pillar).
On March 25th, Mrs. Verrall's script had: The
Herculesstorycomesin thereand the clueis in the Euripides
play if you couldonlyseeit. Bound to thepillar.
In Mrs. Holland's script of April 16th, there was:
Lucus. Margaret. Tofly tofind Euripides. Philemon.
Now Browning translated the 'Hercules Furens' of
Euripides and this translation appears in a poem,
entitled' Aristophanes' Apology.' One of the characters
in the 'Hercules Furens' is Lukos or Lukus, and in
'Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXII, p. 210, et seq.
80 COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
Browning's poem another is Philemon, who is made to
say: 'I'd hang myself to see Euripides.' There is thus a
clear reference to this Browning poem in the script, a
poem which is mainly concerned with Euripides. The
name Margaret refers to Mrs. Verrall.
In the mt:antime, on April 8th, at Mrs. Piper's sitting
with Mrs. Sidgwick, Myersp mentioned several words
and phrases which he claimed had been given as
cross-correspondences, among these is Euripides.
Mrs. Piper had no knowledge of the classics and Mrs.
Holland although she was familiar with the English
poets, did not: read Greek, and her direct acquaintance
with the works of classical authors was slight. She
stated definitely, in reply to MissJohnson, that she had
not read 'Aristophanes' Apology' - 'it was one of the
peaks in the Browning range which I still wa:itto scale.'
Mrs. Verrall was, of course, quite familiar with the
'Hercules Furens' in the original Greek.
If the source of these allusions in the three scripts were
the same, it is possible to see why that which came
through the subliminal mind of Mrs. Verrall should be
couched in classical terms and refer directly to the
original play, while through Mrs. Holland the quota-
tions should be from a translation by an author with
whom she was familiar, though she had not read this
particular work. Mrs. Piper, on the other hand, had
very likely never heard of the 'Hercules Furens,' and it
is very doubtful whether she had read any Browning
translations, so that all we get through her is the simple
word 'Euripides.' Classical references are rare in Mrs.
Piper's and Mrs. Holland's scripts.
The next is again fairly simple, but exhibits certain
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 81
instructive and interesting features. I call it the
Spirit - Angel case.1
In Mrs. Verrall's script of March 25th, 1907, there
was : But let Piddingtonknow whenyou get a messageabout
shadows,then followed various classical quotations in
which the Latin word for 'shades' and the Greek for
'shadow of a shade' occur. Shade or shades in this
sense mean the ghost or spirit of the dead.
On March 27th Mrs. Holland had in her script the
word tenebrae(Latin for shadows) also the word shadow
in English.
On April 8th with Mrs. Piper, Myersp says: Spirit
and angel. I gave both, and, Nearly all the wordsI have
written to-day are with referenceto messagesI am trying
togive throughMrs. V.
To complete the case, I give in full the script of Mrs.
Verrall of April 3rd.
Write threewords- something
abouttheirserriedranks- the
avengingflame- the troop triumphant-
no not quite that
flaming swords- no
flammantiamoeniamundi (Latin = flaming walls of the
world). But wingsorfeatheredwingscomein somewhere.
And with twain he covered
hisface
Try pinionsofdesire
The Wings ofIcarus
(Then a drawing of a wing with feathers.)
longpointed rainbowwings. But you keepgoing round(he
ideasinsteadof giving thre.e
plain words
LOST PARADISE REGAINED
Of man'sfirst disobedience
- nothatis something
else
'Proc., S.P.R. Vol. XXII, p. 220, et seq.
82 COMPLEX CROSS· CORRESPONDENCES
aflutteringfaint desire. Triumphanthosts in longarray the
wingspoint upwardsbehindthemarshalled
hosts.
It is a picturecanyou not seeit? with sweepingstationary
wings, not usedinflight, but making a great aureolebehind
the centralgroup. The hostsof heaven. (Scribbles.) No, I
can'tget it at all.
Leaveit to-day
hisflame-cladmessengers
(Then a drawing of an angel with wings.)
thatis better
F.W.H.M. has sent the messagethrough- at last!
I have quoted this in full because, besides showing the
cross correspondence for 'angel,' it exhibits clearly how
the two factors - if there really be two - which go to
make up the script interact with each other. These two
factors are the subliminal mind of the automatist, and
the external source which introduces the topics; this
hypothetical external source utilizes the contents of the
subliminal memory, selecting those things which will
serve to introduce the topic to which it is desired to refer.
But occasionally the subliminal of the automatist seems
to take charge and to wander away on associations of
its own. Thus Lost Paradise Regained sets it off on
reminiscences of Milton's poem, and the next words are
a quotation from him, having no bearing on the topic
desired.
Then the external source interposes: 'No, that is
something else,' and brings back the original topic of
angels and wings with the word 'fluttering.' One can
almost see the fumbling endeavours to get the idea
through a refractory medium and the despair: 'No, I
can't get it at all.' Then one more attempt which
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 83
finally succeeds in giving a drawing of an angel with
wings, and the final expression of triumph and relief.
'That is better. F.W.H.M. has sent the message
through at last.'
There is one further significant point. The words,
'flammantia moenia mundi' are quoted from Lucretius
i, 73, and Myers wrote a poem, entitled, 'The Passing
of Youth,' the last lines of which are a paraphrase of
the passage from Lucretius from which this quotation
is taken. But Myers added in his paraphrase, 'with
wings unfurled,' whereas 'wings' does not enter into the
lines of Lucretius. It seems likely, therefore, that the
association would be more natural to the mind of Myers
than to that of the automatist who did not discover the
connection between the Myers' poem and Lucretius
until some months later.
Light in the West.1 I have found it quite impossible
to summarize this case; it is highly complex and
involves so many references and subtle associations that
no condensed account could give an adequate picture
of the whole.
Those concerned were Mrs. Verrall, Mrs. Holland,
Mrs. Piper and Miss Verrall. The main idea is the
union of the East and the West, and this is conveyed
by the Latin word 'claviger' which appeared in Mrs.
Verrall's script. It means 'club-bearer,' also 'key-
bearer.'
The three personages to whom it has been applied
are Hercules, the club-bearer; Janus, the key-bearer,
and St. Peter, also a key-bearer. 'The Myth of
• Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXII, p. 241, et seq., and Vol. XXVII, p. 127,
et seq.
84 COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
Hercules,' though belonging to the West, probably had
part of its origin in the East; Janus, the two-faced
Roman deity, is essentially western, but stands for the
union of the West and the East, as he is able, with his
two faces, to look in both directions at once. St. Peter,
an Oriental, became the head of the Western church.
There are secondary references to the same topic,
e.g. bridging of the Hellespont whereby East and West
were joined; also in some quotations from Tennyson's
'Maud.'
Arising from this main stem are other cross corres-
pondences involving quotations from Dante, in parti-
cular referring to the monster Geryon, on which Dante
and Virgil were carried, connected with Geryon or
Geryones, the monster slain by Hercules and mentioned
in Euripides' play, 'Hercules Furens.' From Dante
again comes the idea of identification of opposites,
which is, of course, involved in the main topic. This is
given in Mrs. Holland's script where the words, Martha
becameas Mary - and Leah as Racheloccur.
Martha and Leah are given by Dante as exemplars
of the active type, while Mary and Rachel are con-
templative. That this is connected with the main topic
is clearly shown by the words which immediately
precede, madetheEast as beautifuland as richlycoloured
as
the West. Mrs. Holland had not read Dante, and knew
practically nothing about the 'Divina Commedia.'
Arising further out of these associations, came others
which formed subordinate cross correspondences, such
as Aphrodite, Cytherea, Daffodils (Tennyson), and
Daffodils (Wordsworth), and from thence to the
Wordsworth country.
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 85
The entire case is a complicated web of cross
correspondences, one leading out of the other.
Mr. Piddington, in his original report, exercises a
great deal of ingenuity and classical erudition in making
out the pattern, and he succeeds in putting up a per-
suasive case for the view that it all resulted from a
preconceived design on the part of someone, most
probably the communicator, Myers and his group. His
arguments are subtle and rather finely spun, frequently
they depend on fine points of classical scholarship. I
do not, however, feel quite happy about it all, as it
seems possible to me that the main design which Mr.
Piddington traces had its origin in his own mind.
Possibly the arguments would appeal with greater force
to a classical scholar than to one like myself, who is
not versed in that lore.
Nevertheless, there is unquestionably an intricate
mass of cross correspondences which are evidential in
themselves, even if they do not form parts of a larger
pattern as Mr. Piddington claims. To those interested
in the subject I would recommend a careful study of the
original report, which will repay any labour expended
on it.
Ave Roma lmmortalis.1 In Mrs. Verrall's script of
March 2nd, I 906, there occurred the Latin words,
primus interpares,meaning 'first among his peers,' also a
statement that she would receive a message through
anotherwoman. On March 4th her script contained :
Pagan and Pope, the Stoic persecutorand the Christian.
GregorynotBasil'sfriend oughtto bea clue
. .. ·. Paganand
'Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXI, p. 297, et seq., and Vol. XXVII, p. r 1,
et seq.
86 COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
PopeandReformerall enemies
asyou think. Then in Latin :
The crosshas a meaning. The crossbearerwho is one day
borne.
Dr. Verrall, on reading this first script, identified
'prim us inter pares' as the Pope, and possibly this
accounted for the references to Popes in the second
script. He did not say so at the time, but he was
reminded by this second script of Raphael's picture in
the Vatican of Pope Leo I meeting Attila and turning
him back from sacking Rome. The Stoic persecutor
was identified by Dr. and Mrs. Verrall as Marcus
Aurelius.
It was quite clear that events in the history of Rome
were being referred to.
On March 7th Mrs. Holland's script contained the
words : Ave Roma Immortalis. How could I make it arry
clearerwithoutgivinghertheclue?
There is an obvious cross correspondence here, unless
we attribute the simultaneous reference to Rome to
chance, but in that case the words : 'How could I make
it any clearer, etc.,' would have no meaning.
Miss Johnson, with much labour and ingenuity,
traced a number of other points in Mrs. Verrall's script
which showed that Rome was the subject to which
reference was being made, but it is not necessary to
quote them here.
I include this case for the reason that the investigators,
Miss Johnson in particular, expended on it a very large
amount of research, and appeared to think that it was
an outstanding example of the complex type of cross
correspondence. I must confess, however, that I
personally do not feel inclined to attach so much
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 87
importance to it. It appears to me to be one of those
cases where the explanation by simple telepathy
between the automatists is quite plausible.
The Medici Tombs case.
1 Beginning in November,
1906, there commenced to appear in Mrs. Holland's
scripts, references to shadows, death and sleep, dawn,
evening and morning, and in two cases the name
Margaret was written, signifying a cross correspondence
with Mrs. Verrall. On January 21st, 1907, in Mrs.
Verrall's script, laurels and laurel wreath were men-
tioned several times.
The following is from the waking stage of Mrs. Piper's
trance of February 26th, 1907,2
at which Mr. Piddington
was the sitter.
Morehead(?)
J.G.P.: 'Morehead'?
Morehead(?) (or some such name or word) - laurel
for laurel.
J.G.P. Say that again.
for laurel. I sayI gaveherthatfor laurel. Goodbye.
A few moments later Mrs. Piper looked at Mr.
Piddington with an expression of disgust and alarm,
and said:
Thereare- a nigger. Oh dear. Yougo out.
I don't likeyou at all.
(Rub hands together.) Dead.
Later on came :
Well, I think it was somethingaboutlaurelwreaths.
At a sitting on the next day it was stated:
I gaveMrs. V. laurelwreaths.
'Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXVII, p. 50, et seq.
2
See also Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXII, pp. 94-5.
88 COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
On March 17th, Miss Verrall's script had: Alexander's
tomb... laurel leaves, are-emblemlaurelsfor the victor's
brow.
On March 27th Mrs. Holland had: Darkness,lightand
shadow,AlexanderMoor'shead.
On October 7th, 1908, the Mac script contained:
Dig a graveamongthelaurels.
Thus we have a set of topics interconnected together,
but with little apparent meaning. Light and shadow,
death and sleep might be associated normally, but
laurels, Morehead or Moor's head, and Alexander did
not seem to fit at all.
Then, after the lapse of nearly two years, the clue
came through a different automatist, Mrs. Willett. On
June 10th, 1910, her script contained the words:
Laurentiantombs,Dawn and Twilight.
On July 8th, 1910, in Mrs. Piper's trance, the subject
was again referred to in the words : Meditation,sleeping
dead,laurels.
It was not until 1912 that the riddle was solved, when
it was seen that the whole series of references pointed
to the Medici tombs. The laurel was the special emblem
of Lorenzo, the Magnificient.
On the tomb of Lorenzo, Duke of Urbino, there is a
figure known as Il Pensieroso (vide, 'Meditation' in
Mrs. Piper's script) of which Elizabeth Barrett Brown-
ing wrote, 'with everlasting shadow on his face' ; also,
two recumbent figures representing Dawn and Twilight,
or Morning and Evening: on that of Giuliano, Due de
Nemours, two figures representing Day and Night.
Alessandro de Medici, the most infamous of the
family, was murdered and his body secretly placed in
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 89
the tomb of Lorenzo, Duke of Urbino. This tomb may
therefore be called Alexander's tomb. He was son of
Clement VII and a mulatto slave, and is shown in his
portrait as having woolly hair, thick lips and generally
a negro-like appearance. He was known as II Moro
(the Moor). It is, therefore, quite correct for him to be
called Alexander, Moor's Head.
Miss Verrall, at this time, had never been to Florence,
and though she knew of the existence of the tombs, had
no other knowledge concerning them. To the best of
her belief she had never heard of Alexander de Medici,
and took the words 'Alexander's tomb' in her script to
refer to Alexander the Great.
Mrs. Holland, however, knew the tombs; moreover,
her script had had references previously to Diamond
Island where the Lodge-Muirhead system of wireless-
telegraphy was being tried in which she took an interest.
It seems probable, therefore, that 'Alexander Moor's
head' in her script was derived from the name of Dr.
Alexander Muirhead, and this view is strengthened by
the fact that the words are connected with a drawing of
masts, and the words : 'The tall mast, but this one is
not at sea.' But there is in the same script a quotation
from Othello which goes to show that there was an
association with Moors.
However, even if this explanation of the occurrence
of the name be accepted, it does not bar out the
possibility that there was a double reference intended.
As has been mentioned before, the communicators seem
sometimes to be able to seize upon normal memories in
the mind of the automatist, and to use them for their
special purposes.
G
go COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
It is not unreasonable to suppose that, if these scripts
are really due to the inspiration of a source external to
the mind of the automatist, it is somehow easier for the
communicator to cause that mind to function along its
accustomed lines; thus the use of Greek and Latin
words in Mrs. and Miss Verrall's scripts, and the com-
parative absence of those languages from those of the
other automatists. This view is strongly supported by a
consideration of the Piper contribution in the sitting of
February 26th.
Some weeks earlier, Mrs. Piper had a sitting with
Professor J. H. Muirhead. It was not until the summer
of 1936 that Mr. Piddington learned that Professor
Muirhead had been introduced to Mrs. Piper by name,
and he tells me that he believes that what he heard as
'Morehead,' was a mispronunciation or mishearing of
the name 'Muirhead.'
But the view that this was spoken with a double
reference is supported by the following words : 'I gave
her that for laurel' ; 'that' evidently referring to the
name just spoken. Now 'laurel' is the keyword in this
Medici case, laurels being the special emblem of the
Medicis. There is further confirmation in the mention
of the word 'nigger' a few moments later. There is no
possible association between the name Muirhead, laurel
and nigger, but there is a very close connection if the
name was intended to convey 'Moor's head' through
Alessandro de Medici, Il Moro.
The last case which I have selected to be summarized,
is the Lethe case.1
1
Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXV, p. 113, et seq. See also Vol. XXIV, p.
86, et seq. and pp. 327-8.
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 91
In March, 1908, Mrs. Piper, being back again in
Boston, U.S.A., had been having sittings with Mr. Dorr,
and Myersp had been asked what the word 'Lethe'
suggested to him.
It occurred to Sir Oliver Lodge that it would be a
good thing if the Myers communicator, who purported
to write through Mrs. Willett, were asked the same
question, so in September, 1909, he wrote the following
letter, to be read by Mrs. Willett to Myersw.
'My dear Myers, I want to ask you a question - not an
idle one. WHAT DOES THE WORD LETHE SUG-
GEST TO YOU?
'It may be that you will choose to answer piece-meal and
at leisure. There is no hurry about it. OLIVER
LODGE.'
I will summarize here some remarks which Sir Oliver
Lodge makes in his report on this incident. 1 He says
that he does not regard the various Myers personalities
which come through Mrs. Piper, Mrs. Willett, Mrs.
Verrall and Mrs. Holland, as being all exactly the same.
The utmost assumption is that each contains something
of the real Myers. The personalities would probably
differ, because in no case is the Myers element pure and
undiluted. It must surely be influenced by the material
channel through which it conveys its intelligence. In
the case of an entranced medium it might be anticipated
that the control would be more complete, and that the
effect of the 'dilution' less than with a medium not
entranced, such as Mrs. Verrall.
He says further: 'It is becoming clear to me that
when communications are being sent in such cases as
1
Op. cit., pp. 118-9.
92 COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
those of Mrs. Verrall, Mrs. Holland and Mrs. Willett
the process con~istsin a kind of selection rather than in
creation and origination.'
Myersw himself seems to recognize this, for he says
in script, February 10th, 1910: That I havetousedifferent
scribes,meansthat I must show differentaspectsofthought,
underlying
which,uniryis to befound; and in a later script:
June 5th, 1910 : Write the word 'Selection.' Who selects,
n-ry
friend Piddington? I addressthis questionto Piddington.
Whoselects
?1
On February 4th, Mrs. Willett sat for script, and the
following was written: Myers yes I am here. I am reatfy
now to deal with the question
from Lodge. Beforeyou open
the envelope
rereadhis letter toyou the one that accompanied
theletterto me.
Mrs. Willett then opened the envelope, and read the
letter to Myers twice. The script then began at once:
MyerstheWill againtolive theWill againtolivetheRiverof
forgetfulness notreincarnationOnceonlydoesthesouldescend
the way that leadsto incarnationthe blendingof the Essence
with the instrument Myers tu MarcellusEris you know the
line you (Mrs. Willett) I mean.. . . Write it nevertheless,
and add Henry Sidgwicks In ValleReducta. . . . Add too
the Dovesand the GoldenBough amid the Shadows add too
Gonot to Lethe ... Myers. . . . Therewas a doorto which
I found no key ... and Haggi Babba too. This is dis-
connected
but notmeaninglesstheshiningsouls shiningby the
river brim. The pain forgotten but thereis anothermeaning
anothermoreintimatelink and connection
that now I cannot
give it doesnotescapemeI seethebearingRoseflutteringrose
leavesblownlike ghostsfrom an enchanter
fleeing Myers and
1
Op. cit., p. 128.
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 93
Love Lovetheessential
essence
notspiltlikewaterontheground
far offforgottenpain not here (A break and pause here.)
Darien thepeak . . . in Darien the Peak . . . Peak PEAK
(another pause.) mMyersI havenotdone
yet to Lodgethis
may havemeaningto Lodgethis may havemeaning Let him
remember
theoccasion
Myers I am not vague I am not vague
I want an answer to this . . . to this Scriptfrom Lodge
Myers tell him I want an answer Does he recognizemy
recognition Does he recognizemy recognition
Myers pause
(did so) Let Lodge speak (?) speak let him speak Myers
enough
for to-dayMyers let Lodgespeak. F. ,
The next day, in the evening, while looking at The
Times, Mrs. Willett felt an overpowering urge to write,
and although other people were in the room, sat down
and obtained the following script, which she describes
as the most untidy which she has ever had. There was
some scribbling, but the rest was clearly written. It was
as follows.
Youfelt the call it I it is I whowrite Myers I need
urgentlyto say this tell Lodgethis word Myers Myers get
th_e
word I will spell it (scribbles) Myers yes the word(?)
is DORR
We (?) H (scribbles, perhaps M) Myers the word is
(scribbles) D DORR A{yersenoughF.
Mrs. Willett could make nothing of this, except that
she knew the name Dorr as that of an American who
had had sittings with Mrs. Piper. She knew nothing of
his connection with the 'Lethe' question.
As regards the script of March 4th, the allusions to
Lethe are obvious. 'The will again to live' is a quota-
tion from a translation of Virgil made by Myers himself,
94 COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
and refers to the souls mustering on the banks of Lethe,
waiting to drink the waters of forgetfulness, and thus
will again to live on earth. 'The blending of the essence
with the instrument,' is a paraphrase of a passage in
Virgil's Aeneidwhere Anchises explains to Aeneas con-
cerning the Lethean spirits. 'Tu Marcellus eris' is a
quotation from the Aeneid,but Mrs. Willett had seen it
recently quoted in Proceedings. It is, therefore, not
evidential except that it is doubtful whether she knew
its connection with Lethe. 'In valle reducta' is the
opening phrase of Virgil's description of the River of
Lethe. Mrs. Willett had seen these words in a report on
the Mac scripts, where they were represented as having
come from Henry Sidgwick. The memory of this may
have accounted for the mention of his name here.
The doves and the golden bough are further references
to Virgil's account of the journey of Aeneas to the
infernal regions. He had to obtain the bough before
he could reach the River Lethe, and it was the doves
who guided him to it in the woods round Avernus.
The subject is then changed, and a quotation from
Omar Khayyam is given which has no obvious con-
nection with Lethe, also the name, Haggi Babba.
Some month later, Myersw says that he made a pun
somewhere: 'I, Myers, made a pun, I got in a word
I wanted by wrapping it up in a quotation.'
Sir Oliver Lodge interpreted this as referring to the
word 'door' in the Omar Khayyam quotation as a
pun on the name Dorr, the American who put the Lethe
question to Myers through Mrs. Piper. Haggi Babba
he thinks is meant for Ali Baba and is brought in because
of his connection with the door of the robber's cave
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 95
which opened only to the words 'Open Sesame.' This
door might clearly be described as 'a door to which I
found no key.' From the fact that the name Dorr was
given spontaneously on the following day this inter-
pretation seems justifiable.
Moreover, at about this time Mrs. Forbes' script
contained allusions to Sir Oliver Lodge and opening
doors. The Mac script had a similar reference to 'key
and door,' but as this occurred some eighteen months
earlier, it can hardly be considered. as having any
connection; there was, however, a simple cross corres-
pondence with Mrs. Holland's script of about that date,
which contained a drawing of a key.
In the remainder of the script there are other indirect
references to Lethe, but those which I have quoted will
suffice to. show that whoever or whatever it was which
inspired the script, was conversant with Virgil and his
account of Aeneas' visit to Lethe, also that there was a
connection between this topic and the name Dorr.
Though Mrs. Willett knew practically no classics, she
had read Church's Storiesfrom Virgil,but a study of that
book convinced Sir Oliver Lodge that she could not
have derived the knowledge shown from that source.
He states that at the time he was not familiar with the
Sixth Book of the Aeneid, which is the one concerned.
Myers, however, was in his lifetime, a great student of
Virgil.
Myersw evidently understood what was being done,
for he says in a script of February 10th: Dorr's scheme
excellent. That I have differentscribes(automatists) means
that I must showdifferentaspectsof thoughtsunderlyingwhich
uniry is to befound and I know what Lodge wants. He
96 COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES
wants me to prove that I 'haveaccessto knowledgeshown
elsewhere.
I think that it may be fairly said that Myersw, what-
ever he may have been, succeeded, if not in proving this
conclusively, at least in giving evidence of considerable
weight in support.
In later scripts he shows himself possessed of wide
classical knowledge, completely beyond anything which
could be attributed to Mrs. Willett.
Sir Oliver Lodge, commenting on this, says :1 'The
way in which these allusions are combined or put
together, and their connection with each other indi-
cated, is the striking thing - it seems to me as much
beyond the capacity of Mrs. Willett as it would be
beyond my own capacity. I believe that if th~ matter
is seriously studied, and if Mrs. Willett's assertions
concerning her conscious knowledge and supraliminal
procedure are believed, this will be the opinion of
critics also; they will realize, as I do, that we are
tapp1ng the reminiscences not of an ordinarily educated
person but of a scholar - no matter how fragmentary
and confused some of the reproductions are.'
Besides these cases which I have summarized, there
are a number of others, some of which were treated at
great length by the investigators. I have abstained
from attempting to give any summary of them, partly
because of their complexity and the difficulty of giving
any adequate account in a form condensed to the
degree that is here necessary, and partly because I do
not wish to weary my readers.
To those who are sufficiently interested in this matter
1
Op. cit., p. 172-3.
COMPLEX CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 97
of cross correspondences, I would recommend a careful
study of the original reports in the volumes of the
Proceedings
of the Society for Psychical Research, and I
have put in an Appendix a full list of those volumes in
which reports bearing on the matter may be found.
CHAPTER VI
IN this chapter I propose to summarize two cases
which, though not strictly speaking cross correspon-
dences, may logically be included in the series, seeing
that the evidence was the production of one of the
leading automatists, Mrs. Willett, and that one of the
communicators was Dr. Verrall who had been con-
cerned, though indirectly, with the earlier experiments,
and that the object was the same, viz. proving identity.
They were investigated by the Rt. Hon. Gerald W.
Balfour (now Earl of Balfour), and reported in two
papers published in Proceedings,
Volumes XXVII and
XXIX. The first is known as the 'Statius,' the second,
as the 'Ear of Dionysius' case.
I will take the Statius case first.1
On July 6th, 1912, a few weeks after the death of
Dr. A. W. Verrall (June 18th, 1912), Mrs. Willett's
script contained the following: Does she rememberthe
passage in which there'sa referenceto a river? A traveller
looksacrossit, and seesthe inn wherehe wishesto be; and he
seesthe torrentand is torn both ways, half disliking to battle
with thecurrent,andyet desiringto beat his destination.
Should it be possible to identify this passage, the matter
wouldproveinteresting.
What thepassagedoesnotsqyI drawfrom my own mind to
make the connection
clear.
•Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXVII, p. 221, et seq. See also Vol. XXVII,
pp. 244-9 and 458-74.
98
STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES 99
Thepassageis notfrom ChristinaRossetti; but I want to
say that too:
Yea, beds
for all that come-
You cannotmiss that Inn.
The passage referred to was not traced; and the
matter fell into abeyance until on August 13th,. 1913,
the following appeared in her script: Someoneindignant
at thedelaycallsout
HAS THE PASSAGE
beenidentified
aboutthetravellerlookingacrossa stream;dips
his staff in,fears to wade, takes a run, heart misgiveshim.
(Here Mrs. Willett said out loud : 'Someone is laughing
so.'-NoTE BY SITTER)longsto beoveranddonewith
Faith and
Hair
in a Temple
(Drawing of a wheel) Wheel.
Pilgrim.
Therewasa reason
for theCHOICE, ifyou.findthepassage
alludedto, it will beclear.
Have thisseento,for heswearshe will nothereexercise
any
patiencewhatsoever.Not evenabout
LavenderorLub.
Another reference was made on August I7th, I913,
as follows:
But it is of anotheroneI want to write. I said Pilgrim.
Now write this-
Not a one-horsed
dawn, but a two horsedchariot,though
one-horsed
in a way mightfit, because
as compared
to another
charioteer's
exploits,his werebut a one-horsed
affair. It is a
poem I am alludingto.
100 STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES
A man who drovetwo horsesin a less ambitiousmanner.
His predecessor
-
DoesGodexactdaylabour,light denied?
That oughtto makeit clear.
Hair in a templewas said.
And again on September 8th, 1913.
He of thelittlepatiencedemandsnowthis thirdtimewhether
the Pilgrim has beenunderstood.
Now if I say PassionatePilgrim, I know all sortsofcon-
notationswill be draggedin. But think of thepassagestwice
inserted.
The River andhe.whowouldbeacross.
Letting I would not wait uponI would.
That seems
jumbledup somehow,nevermind.
A passionatePilgrim but
NOT H.S's
one
What movesthe stars and all the heavenlybodies? Dante
makesit clear.
ThenagainI repeatand will continue
to repeatuntilyou are
all sick and tiredofthesubject
HAIR IN A TEMPLE
That belongs
The investigators formed the conclusion that the
scripts were somehow connected with Dr. Verrall, and
the statement that 'Dante makes it clear,' gave them
the clue. In the spring of 1913 a volume of essays by
Dr. Verrall was published, one of which, entitled:
'Dante on the Baptism of Statius,' had appeared
originally in the Albany Review of 1908. Mrs. Willett ,
had never heard of the AlbanyReview,and although she
STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES 101
had received a copy of the volume of essays in May,
1913, she had not read any of them. Anyhow, as the
volume was not published until after the date of the
first script, it could not have been the source of the
information contained therein.
Statius, a Latin poet of the second half of the first
century A.D., was an imitator of Virgil. His principal
work, The Thebaid,described the legendary war against
Thebes. He was inclined to be rather long-winded and
dilatory, and some authorities think that the name
Statius = the 'Stayer,' was given him as a nickname
on this account.
In the PurgatorioDante describes how he and Virgil
met the soul of Statius who, having just completed his
purgatorial expiation, was free to accompany them on
their journey. Statius, having been in Purgatory, must
therefore have been a Christian, and Dante, according
to Dr. Verrall, had 'the audacity to date the baptism
by a particular passage in the Thebaid.'
Dante makes Statius say: 'I had received baptism
before, as a poet, I had brought the Greeks to the rivers
of Thebes.'
Dr. Verrall, in his essay, then discusses the meaning
of the passage in Dante where Statius is represented as
making this statement, and shows how he describes
himself as lingering on the other side of the river of
baptism, but before he brought the Greeks in his poem
to the Theban River, he, himself, had made the passage.
The actual words which Dante puts into his mouth
are: 'Ere in my poem I had brought the Greeks to
Thebes' river, I received baptism, but through fear I
was a secret Christian, long time pretending paganism.'
102 STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES
The passage in the first script clearly describes a
traveller hesitating to cross a river, and is obviously
apposite to Statius.
That this was the actual reference intended is con-
firmed by the words : 'What the passage does not say
I draw from my own mind to make the connection
clear,' which is a paraphrase of the opening sentence of
the speech of Statius, and by the statement in the last
script that 'Dante makes it clear.'
If this identification of the passage be admitted, we
have to account for its appearance somehow. Mrs.
Willett could not have possessed the knowledge
normally, so that we are compelled to adopt either the
hypothesis of chance, or that of supernormal acquisition.
It is clear, I think, that all four scripts refer to the
same topic, and exhibit a coherence and design of a
sort.
The first script sets the puzzle, and in those following
we see a semi-humorous impatience, and in each fresh
clues given. When at last the solution is found the
matter is dropped.
I doubt whether this could reasonably be ascribed
to mere chance, the concordance is too great. If it were
due to supernormal acquisition, Mrs. Willett could have
acquired the information either by clairvoyance or
telepathy. If the former, we must assume that she
perceived clairvoyantly a copy of the AlbarryReview of
1908, a review which had a very narrow circulation
and short life, and one of which she had never even
heard; or else she perceived the unpublished volume of
essays.
Then from this source, she elaborated the puzzle in
STATIUS AND EAR QF DIONYSIUS CASES 103
her subliminal mind, and later devised all the fresh
clues given in the subsequent scripts, some of which
were drawn from other sources. Such an elaboration
would entail minute study of the essay, and I find it
difficult to suppose that her subliminal mind could have
carried it out. In my opinion the hypothesis of clair-
voyance, though abstractly possible, is practically
untenable and fantastic.
If it were due to telepathy, there appear to be two
alternatives, i.e. telepathy from some living person,
and telepathy from the surviving consciousness of a
deceased human being.
Suppose it were telepathy from some living person,
the most plausible, in fact, one may say, the only
plausible suggestion, is that it was derived from Mrs. or
Miss Verrall. They were in possession of the knowledge,
and they were both capable of elaborating such a
puzzle. But it must have come from their subliminal
minds, for, until they learned of the solution proposed
by Lord Balfour, they were unable to make anything
ofit. It is possible that this elaborate scheme might have
been devised by the subliminal mind of one or other
of them, and yet left the supraliminal in complete
ignorance, but on the whole I think that it is rather
unlikely. 1
If it were telepathy from a deceased person, all the
evidence points to that person being Dr. Verrall.
The reader must decide for himself which of these
alternatives is preferable. As I said at the outset,
complete proof cannot be obtained, all we can hope
for is probability.
1
See op. cit., p. 235, for Lord Balfour's comments on this point.
104 STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES
There are a few subsidiary points in the later scripts
and these I will shortly describe. -
In all three 'Hair in a Temple' is emphatically
mentioned.
Lord Balfour, in commenting on this, states that it
conveys to him a definite and evidential meaning.
There are, he says, only two passages in classical
literature to which it can be referred, one a poem by
Catullus called, 'The Hair of Berenice,' the other a
poem by Statius himself. If it were the latter it is surely
suggestive, but he considered that the weight of
evidence was in_favour of the former. It may well
have been, of course, that there was here a double
reference, and that Dr. Verrall, supposing his mind to
have been the source, utilized this as giving added
cogency to the evidence. He had undoubtedly been
familiar with both passages.
Unfortunately, the reason for ascribing the reference
to the Catullus poem cannot be given, and, as Lord
Balfour says : 'I must ask you to accept from me
that there is a connection, but one which I have
to leave unexplained, because it involves a reference
to private matters which I am not at liberty to dis-
close.'
I think that no one will have any difficulty in accept-
ing Lord Balfour's assurance on this point.
The next item is' Pilgrim,' or 'the passionate Pilgrim.'
The word 'Pilgrim' is, of course, a clear association
with the traveller hesitating to cross the river. A clue
to the meaning of all this part of the scripts may be
found in the words, 'A passionate Pilgrim, but not
H.S.'s one.' H.S. stands for Henry Sidgwick, and in an
STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES 105
early script of Mrs. Verrall's 'the passionate pilgrim'
occurs in a passage which was afterwards connected by
her with Professor Sidgwick. This passage had been
published and read by Mrs. Willett. Lord Balfour
suggested a further explanation, but I need not give
any summary of it here.
The reference to 'one-horsed dawn' is, of course, to
the experiment in telepathy known by that name,
which was instituted by Dr. Verrall. I have sum-
marized it on page 63. This is most ingeniously con-
nected with a poem by Gray, entitled 'The Progress
of Poesy, a Pindaric Ode,' wherein Dryden is compared
with Milton, and the simile of a two-horsed charioteer
is used. The words in the script: 'Does God exact
day labour, light denied?' are a quotation from
Milton's sonnet on his blindness. In Gray's poem
reference is made to Milton's blindness. The last
work on which Dr. Verrall was engaged before
his death was a set of lectures on Dryden, in the
course of which this passage from ,Gray's ode was
quoted.
The last point is the cryptic phrase, 'Lavender or
Lub.' These words had appeared in a script of Mrs.
Verrall's on January 13th, 1908, and had been read by
Mrs. Willett. Lord Balfour had also seen this script
and knew that the original source of the words was a
poem in Punch wherein several variations on the
alternative names of the fish, Chavender or Chub, were
made. What neither of them knew was that these lines
had been exceedingly familiar to Dr. Verrall, and had
become a standing family joke. Mrs. Verrall wrote in
answer to Lord Balfour's inquiry : 'During many years,
H
106 STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES
for instance, the mention of bathing invariably pro-
duced the lines :
And when I take my Tavender
My Tavender or Tub.'
It appears quite obvious that all these passages point
unmistakably to Dr. Verrall, so much so, that if the
source was not in his mind, they must have come from
someone who was most intimately connected with him,
that is to say, Mrs. or Miss Verrall. I have already
discussed the question of their authorship in regard to
the Statius passages, and it seems to me that these
further points of identification go a long way to rein-
force the unlikelihood of ascribing it to either of them.
The final case of which I shall treat is 'the Ear of
Dionysius. '1
Here again the automatist was Mrs. Willett, and the
investigator Lord Balfour.
The first mention of the topic was on August 26th,
1910, when the following words were spoken. (It must
be remembered that in the. more advanced stage of
Mrs. Willett's mediumship, spoken as well as written
messages were given) Dionysius' Ear, the lobe.
The name was given the Italian pronunciation. The
reference was entirely disconnected, and nothing was
made of it by Mrs. Verrall, who was sitting with Mrs.
Willett.
The 'Ear of Dionysius' is a kind of grotto in the
quarries at Syracuse, in Sicily. These quarries had
been used for a prison for the Athenian prisoners of
1
Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXIX, p. 197, et seq. See also pp. 260-9 and
270-86.
STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES 107
war after the failure of the siege of Syracuse, and later
were again used for other prisoners by the elder
Dionysius, Tyrant of Syracuse. The grotto is supposed
to have the properties of a whispering gallery, and it is
partly for this reason and partly on account of its shape,
that it came to be known as 'the Ear of Dionysius,'
though the name dates only from the sixteenth century.
Mrs. Willett had spent some time in Italy and knows
Italian, but had never been to Sicily. She may, how-
ever, have heard of the grotto, as it is one of the show
places of Syracuse.
Nothing more was heard of this topic until January
roth, 1914, when the following script was written: Do
you remember
you did not know and I complainedof your
classicalignorance IGNORANCE. It concerned
a place
whereslaveswerekept- andAuditionbelongs,alsoAcoustics.
Think of the WhisperingGally [sic].
To toil, a slave,the Tyrant- and it was calledOrecchio
-
that's near
OneEar, a one-eared
place,nota one-horsed
dawn(here the
automatist laughed slightly), a one-eared
place- You did
not know (or remember)about it when it came up in con-
versation,and I said Well what is the use of a classical
education
-
Wherewerethefields of Enna
(Drawing of an ear.)
an ear1y [sic] pipe couldbe heard
To sailfor Syracuse
Who beat the loud-sounding
wave, who smote the moving
furrows
The heelof theBoot
Dy Dy andthen
you thinkof Diana Dimorphism
108 STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES
Tofly tofind Euripides
not thePaulinePhilemon
This sortof thingis moredifficultto do thanit looked
Sir Oliver Lodge was the sitter at this sitting, but the
message appears to have been addressed to Mrs. Verrall
who had been the sitter on the earlier occasion. She
had made a note shortly after that sitting (i.e. in
August, 1910, nearly two years before his death) to the
effect that she had asked her husband what was meant
by the words, 'Ear of Dionysius,' and she afterwards
remembered that he had expressed surprise at her
ignorance. He had explained that it was the name of a
place at Syracuse where Dionysius could overhear con-
versations. This is clearly reflected in the opening
sentences of this script. Unfortunately, Lord Balfour
was unable to say whether he had mentioned this ·
conversation between Dr. and Mrs. Verrall to Mrs.
Willett. He had a dim recollection of having done so,
but Mrs. Willett, herself, remembered nothing of it.
This is a pity, as an otherwise good piece of evidence is
spoiled.
Mrs. Willett gave the Italian word for ear, viz.,
'orecchio/ which recalls her use of the Italian pro-
nunciation of Dionysius on the first occasion.
Our old friend, the one-horsed dawn, is again brought
in, but this by itself is not evidential as the phrase was
familiar both to Mrs. Willett and to the sitter, Sir Oliver
Lodge.
Enna, which is next mentioned, is a town in Sicily
and the fields of Enna were famous as the scene of the
rape of Proserpine.
'An ear-ly pipe' is a reminiscence from Tennyson,
STATIUS AND EAR OF J?IONYSIUS CASES rog
being brought up, presumably, by the punning associa-
tion with 'ear.' 1
The next sentences, 'To sail for Syracuse,' 'Who beat
the sounding wave, etc.,' and 'the heel of the boot,'
evidently refer to the Athenian expedition against
Syracuse and to the Athenian prisoners of war who
were confined in the quarries. Some of the words here
are again reminiscent of Tennyson.
Then comes an attempt at the name Dionysius.
'To fly to find Euripides' is a phrase which had
appeared in a script of Mrs. Holland's (see page 79)
which Mrs. Willett had read; it refers to Browning's
poem,' Aristophanes' Apology.' In this poem Balaustion
tells Philemon that she had sent the original tablets of
Euripides' play, 'Hercules Furens,' whi~h he had given
to her as a parting gift, to Dionysius, Tyrant of Syra-
cuse. Mrs. Willett had not read this poem, but she had
seen references to it in the reports of the 'Euripides'
1 Mr. Piddington has pointed out to me that there may also be an
association of ears of corn with Demeter and Proserpine.
This would connect up with 'the fields of Enna' and he quotes two
verses from Swinburne's poem, 'The Garden of Proserpine.'
Although the fields of Enna are not mentioned in this poem, there
is an implicit connection, for they were famous as the scene of the Rape
of Proserpine. These verses, which moreover make contact with the
script at other points, are as follows:
And
Here life has death for neighbour
And far from eye and ear
Wan waves and wet winds labour
Pale, without name or number,
In fruitless fields of corn
They bow themselves to slumber.
The points of contact are obvious; death, slumber, eye or ear, and
waves.
·Two lines from this poem of Swinburne's are quoted in the next script,
a fact which lends confirmation to Mr. Piddington's suggestion.
110 STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES
cross correspondence in Proceedings,
so it is just possible
that she may have known of the connection with
Dionysius, though it does not seem likely as this point
was not mentioned in the earlier reports.
The next script from which an extract is quoted is that
of February 28th, 1914, Lord Balfour being the sitter.
Some confusionmay appearin the matter transmitted,but
thereis now beingstartedan experiment
not a new experiment
buta newsubjectandnotexactlythatbuta newlinewhichjoins
with a subjectalreadygot through
a little anatomyifyouplease
Add oneto one
OneEar X [sic] oneeye
(Then a drawing of an ear and an eye in a circle)
the oneeyedKingdom
no, in the K of theBlind the 1 eyedman is King
It is abouta 1 eyedman (Man was crossed out in the
original)
1 eyed
The entranceto thecaveArethusa
Arethusais onlyto indicateit doesnot belongto the I eyed
A FountainontheHill Side
(Then a drawing of a volcano or smoking mountain)
What aboutBaulastion[sic]
(Then a drawing of a boot)
(Laughs) Supposed
to bea WellingtonBoot
12 little niggerboysthinkingnotof Sryx
Somewereeatenup and thentherewereSix Six
(At this point Mrs. Willett ceased to write and began
dictating to the sitter)
Someonesaid- OhI'll try,I'll try. OhSomeone's
showing
me apictureand talkingat thesametime.
STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES 111
Someone
said to meHomer
. ...
Nor sightsnorsoundsdiurnal
Here whereall windsarequiet
(Swinburne, 'The Garden of Proserpine')
... It's abouta cave,anda groupof men. Somebody
then- a
trident,ratherlike a toasting
fork I think.
Poseidon,Poseidon
Whowasit said,It maybethat thegulfs will washus down
- find thegreatAchillesthat weknew (Tennyson's Ulysses)
Ne' s gotaflaming torchin hishand. And thensomeonesaid
tome, Can'tyou thinkofNoah andthegrapes?
Optics- 0hi that,you know(putting a finger to her eye)
... Somebody
said to me,Don'tforget aboutHenrySidgwick,
thathepleasednothimself. Doyou knowheusedtoworkwhen
he hated working. I meansometimeshe had to grind along
withoutenjoyingwhat he was doing. That's what I'm trying
to do now. Doyou know that man with theglitteringeyesI
oncesaw? He hit me with one word now (Note by Lord
Balfour : Here Mrs. Willett traced a word with one
finger along the margin of the paper. I failed to make it
out and handed the pencil to her, whereupon she wrote)
Aristotle
(Dictation resumed) And Poetry, the languageof the
Gods. Somebody
killeda Presidentonceandcalledout- some-
thing in Latin, and I only heard one word of it, Tironus,
Tiranus, Tiranius- somethingabout sic. (Note by Lord
Balfour: ' Sic semper tyrannis' - uttered by Booth
when he murdered Lincoln. . . .)
What is a tyrant?
Lots ofwars- A SiegeI hearthesoundof chipping. Its on
stone
. ...
112 STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES
Fin andsomething
gleba. Find - Oh it's got to do with the
serf. It's aboutthatmanwhosaidit was better- Oh! a shade
amongtheshades.Betterto bea slaveamongtheliving,hesaid.
Oh, thetoil- Woeto thevanquished.
That one eye has got somethingto do with the one ear.
That's what they wantedme to say There'ssucha mass of
things,you see, rushingthroughmy mind that I can't catch
anything.
(A pause and_ then sobbing) He was turned into a
fountain thatsortofStephenman,hewasturnedintoafountain.
WHY? that's thepoint: WHY?
Oh dearme! Now I seemto bewalkingabouta school,and
I meeta darkboy,and- it's thenameofa FieldMarshallI'm
tryingto get, a Germanname. And thenso_mething
says, All
this is only memoriesrevived:it's got nothingto do with the
purely literary- There are two people in that literarything,
chiefly concerned
in it. They're very closefriends - they've
thoughtit all out together.
Somebody
saidsomethingaboutFatherCamwalkingarmin
arm- with the Canongate? What doesthat mean?
Enoughfor this time. Thereis sensein that whichhas been
got throughthoughsomedisentanglement
is needed.A Literary
Associationof ideaspointingto theinfluence
of two discarnate
minds.
Most of the topics of the previous script are again
mentioned; these need not be further discussed, but
may be briefly enumerated. They are:
The Ear of Dionysius.
The stone quarries in which the vanquished Athenians
worked.
Enna (indirectly suggested by a quotation from 'The
Garden of Proserpine').
STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES 113
Syracuse (Wars - a Siege, and Arethusa).
The heel of Italy (Wellington boot).
The Adventures of Balaustion.
It was further said that an experiment was being
tried, and in a part which I have not quoted, it is
expressly enjoined that May (Mrs. Verrall whose name
is Margaret, but who was·always called May) is to hear
nothing of it. It is also stated that it is the work of two
friends who were no longer in the flesh. They are
indicated as being Professor Butcher and Dr. Verrall.
The 'man with the glittering eyes I once saw,' refers
to Professor Butcher. Mrs. Willett had seen a vision of
him a few weeks after his death: in her record of it,
made the following day, she says: 'Last night after I
had blown out my candle and was just going to sleep,
I became aware of the presence of a man, a stranger,
and - almost at the same moment - knew it was Henry
Butcher. I felt his personality very living, clear, strong,
sweetness and strength combined. A piercing glance.
He made no introduction, and said nothing. So I said
to him: "Are you Henry Butcher?" He said: "No,
I am Henry Butcher's ghost." I was rather shocked at
his saying this, and said : "Oh, very well, I'm not at all
afraid of ghosts or of the dead." He said: "Ask Verrall
if he remembers our last conversation, and say the
word to him: Ek e tee." '
This last was apparently meant for 'Hecate' which
had a significance for Dr. Verrall. Professor Butcher
had written a work on Aristotle. So the name 'Aristotle'
written by Mrs. Willett after Lord Balfour had failed
to understand the letters traced on the table, serves as.
an additi9nal point of identification.
114 STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES
The references to the school, dark boy, etc., concern
Dr. Verrall, of whom they were veridical. 'Father Cam
walking arm in arm with the Canongate' signifies the
association between the two friends. Dr. Verrall, was,
of course, a Cambridge man, while Professor Butcher
was professor of Greek at Edinburgh, hence 'the
Canongate.' He was also a highly distinguished
Cambridge man and was member of Parliament for
the University.
Mrs. Willett had met Dr. Verrall two or three times,
but not Professor Butcher, though she knew the latter
by name.
Besides the topics already mentioned there are two
additional subjects which are introduced into this
script; they are the stories of Polyphemus and Ulysses
from Homer, and of Acis and Galatea from Ovid. The
first story recounts how Ulysses was driven by storm
to the lands of the Cyclopes, how he and twelve of his
comrades sheltered in the cave of one of them, Poly-
phemus, the one-eyed son of the sea-god Poseidon.
Polyphemus imprisons them in the cave and proceeds
to devour them two at a time. Ulysses and his remain-
ing companions, having made Polyphemus dead drunk
with wine which they had brought from the ship, burn
out his single eye with the glowing point of an olive
stake which they had thrust into the embers. Next
morning they escape from the cave, concealed under
the bellies of the sheep which had been herded there
for the night.
Ancient tradition located the cave in Sicily, though
Homer is silent on the matter.
The references in the script to this story are obvious
STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES 05
once we have the clue, e.g. '12 little nigger boys, etc.,'
mention of Homer, a cave, Poseidon, the flaming torch,
of Noah and the grapes, etc.
The second story also brings in Polyphemus : Acis, a
shepherd dwelling at the foot of Mount Etna, loves
Galatea, a sea nymph. She is also beloved by Poly-
phemus, but rejects his suit. He, mad with jealousy,
hurls a rock at Acis and crushes him to death. Galatea
gives her dead lover a kind of immortality by changing
him into a stream which issues as a fountain from the
rock which killed him. The references to this story are,
'a fountain on the hill-side,' the drawing of a volcano,
and 'he was turned into a fountain that sort of Stephen
man.' The reference to Stephen being, of course, on
account of the similarity of the manner in which St.
Stephen and Acis were killed, i.e. by stoning.
The next script in the series, on March 2nd, 1914,
was as follows.
The Aristotelianto the Hegelianfriend greeting. Also the
Rationalistto the Hegelianfriend greeting. (The Aristote-
lian is Professor Butcher, who had written about
Aristotle, the Rationalist, Dr. Verrall, with a side
allusion to his book, Euripides the Rationalist. The
Hegelian is Lord Balfour, the sitter.)
Thesetwainbeaboutaparticulartaskandnowproceed
withit
(Then came a drawing of a Zither.)
a ,Zither that belongsthe sound also stones, the tool of
prisonersandcaptivesbeneaththe Tyrant's rod
The Stag notStag, dogo on
Stagyr writerite
(Here Mrs. Willett ceased writing, and proceeded to
dictate)
116 STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES
Somebody
said to me Mousike.
Do you know, it's an odd thing, I can see Edmund [i.e.
Edmund Gurney] as if he were working something;and
the thinghe is workingis me. It isn't reallyme,you know;
it's only a sort of asleepme that I can look at. He is very
intent- and thosetwo menI don't know. One'sverybig and
tall, with a blackbeard. The otherman I don't seeso well.
But he holdsup a bookto me.
Oh! Somebodywrote a book about something,and this
man, who'sholdingup thebook,wrotea bookabouthim. And
the reference
he wants isn'tjust now to what he wrote,but to
what thispersonhe wroteaboutwrote.
What doesArs Poeticamean?
Edmund said to me Juvenal also wrotesatires- and then
he laughedand said, Goodshot.
The pen is mightierthan the sword. Oh, it's so confusing
- stonesbelong,and so doesthepen. Oh!
Somebodysaid, Try her with the David story. She might
get it that way. The man he sent to battle hopinghe'd get
killed, because
he wantedhim out of the way.
A green-eyed
monster.
Now, all of a suddenI hadit. Jealousy,thatfirst infirmity
of petty minds.
What doesSicilianArtemismean?
Suchan oddold humanstoryof longago.
He that hath an ear to hear,let him hear.
What is an earmadefor?
Oh, this old bothersome
rubbishis so tiresome.
(Here Mrs. Willett commenced writing again, and
first drew an ear and a circle).
Find thecentre. (Here she added an eye in the circle)
Not toyou to Goldennumbers
goldennumbers,butaddr to r
STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES 117
twosingles,dissimilarthings,but both
found normallyinpairs
in humananatomy- Good.
Gurneysqys she has doneenoughnow, but thereis more,
much more,later. Until the effortis completedthe portions
as theycomearenotto beseenbyairyotherAUTOMATIST.
E.G.
The passages, 'Try her with the David story, etc.,'
'A green-eyed monster' and Jealousy, etc.,' are answers
to the question asked in the previous script, viz. why
Acis was changed into a fountain. Zither, Mousike,
Stagyr and Ars Poetica are references to Aristotle, the
Stagyrite, and thus indirectly to Professor Butcher, who
wrote a treatise on Aristotle's Poetics
;1 there is also a
further association from the subject of Poeticsto Satire,
one of the classical forms of poetry. This is reinforced
by the mention ofJuvenal, the classical satirist.
To recapitulate, we have now the following list of
topics.
The Ear of Dionysius.
The stone quarries of Syracuse.
The story of Polyphemus and Ulysses.
The story of Acis and Galatea.
Jealousy.
Music.
Something to be found in Aristotle's Poetics.
Satire.
So far there seems to be very little to connect up the
various pieces, but in August, 1915, a further script,
contained the following passages; Mrs. Verrall was the
sitter.
1
Horace's Ars Poetica is referred to at least three times in Professor
Butcher's book, Aristotle's Theory of Poetry and Fine Art.
118 STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES
Someone
speaksa tall broadfigure with a dark beardand
eyesthat emit light with him standsthe man whosaid I am
HenryButcher'sghostdoyou remember?
Ecate
The Aural instructionwas I think understood
Aural apper-
tainingto theEar
and nowhe asksHAS theSatiresatirebeenidentified
Surelyyou havehad my messages
concerning
it [it] belongs
to theEar andcomesin
It hasa thread. Did theynottellyou efreferences
toa Cave
The mildeyedmelancholy
LotusEaterscame
That belongsto thepassageimmediately
beforetheoneI am
now tryingtospeakef. menin a caveherds
listendon'ttalk (Mrs. Verrall had repeated two words,
half aloud.)
herdsand a greatloadeffirewoodand theEYE
olivewoodstaff,
(then a drawing something like an arrow head)
themanclungto thefleeceof a Ram andsopassedoutsurely
that isplain
well conjointhat with Cytheraand the Ear-man
The Rosemansaid AristotlethenPoetics The incidentwas
chosenas beingevidentialof identityand it aroseout of the
Ear trainof thought.
Thereis a Satire
write Cyclopean
Masonry, why doyou say masonryI said
Cyclopean
Philox He laboured
in thestonequarries
anddrewuponthe
earlierwriter
for material
for hisSatireJealousy
The story is quite clear to me and I think it should be
identified
STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES II9
a musicalinstrumentcomesin somethinglike a mandoline
thrummingthrummingthat is thesenseof the word
He wrotein thosestonequarriesbelongingto the Tyrant
Is a,ryof thisclear?
(Drawing of an ear)
You havetoput Homerwith anotherandtheEar themeis in
it too. Thepen dippedin vitriolthat is whatresultedandS H
knowsthepassagein Aristotlewhichalsocomesin. There'sa
fine tangle
for your unravelling
andheof theimpatience
will
Let herwait tryagainEdmund
Sicily
He says whenyou haveidentifiedthe classicalallusionshe
wouldlike to betold.
It will be seen that the same subjects were again
mentioned with but little extra added, but that little
extra gave the key to the puzzle.
The important words were, 'Cythera,' 'Cyclopean,'
'Philox,' 'He laboured in the stone quarries and drew
upon the earlier writer for material for his Satire.'
'Jealousy.'
Now Philoxenus of Cythera was a poet of some repute
in antiquity, but very little is known of him nowadays
except to specialists in classical literature, as only a
few lines of his work have been preserved.
His story is as follows. He was a writer of dithy-
rambs, a kind of poetry which combined music with
verse in which a Kithara or Zither was generally
employed. He spent some time at the court of Diony-
sius of Syracuse, and ultimately quarrelled with his
patron and was imprisoned in the quarries. Accounts
differ as to the cause of the quarrel. According to some
Dionysius was offended because Philoxenus refused to
120 STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES
praise his poems, another version is that the quarrel
was on account of the poet's 'too close intimacy with
the Tyrant's mistress, Galateia.'
The most famous poem of Philoxenus was one
entitled, 'Cyclops or Galatea,' and was a burlesque on
the love of Cyclops for the Nymph; it was written to
avenge himself on Dionysius who was wholly or par-
tially blind in one eye. In it he represents the Tyrant
as Polyphemus and himself as Odysseus. It may
therefore be described as a satire.
These facts are very little known and are drawn from
Lempriere's ClassicalDictionaryand Dr. Herbert Weir
Smyth's GreekMelic Poets,neither of which works were
known to Mrs. Willett.
It is evident that all the leading topics as enumerated
in the lists given above, are combined into one whole
in this narrative.
The scene - the stone quarries and the 'Ear of
Dionysius,' Polyphemus and Ulysses from one story,
supply two of the characters of the satirical poem of
Philoxenus, Galatea from the other story supplies the
third character. Jealousy, the motive. Music and
Zither come in as being the accompaniment of the
particular form in which the poem was cast, viz. the
dithyramb. Satire, the character of the poem.
The references to Aristotle link up with both Professor
Butcher and with Aristotle's Poetics, in which the
dithyramb is described, not only so but this actual
poem of Philoxenus is cited as a specimen of satirical
poem.
The final script which closes the incident, seems to
make it clear that the solution found is correct, it came
STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES 121
on August 19th, 1915. Lord Balfour being the sitter;
the following is an extract.
(Sitter: First of all, Gurney, I want to tell you that
all the classical allusions recently given to Mrs. Verrall
are now completely understood.)
Good- at last!
(Sitter: We think the whole combination extremely
ingenious and successful.)
and A Wish-
(Sitter: What is the word after 'A.W. '?)
A W-ish
(Sitter: Yes)
Also S H-ish
A. W. and S. H. are, of course, Dr. Verrall and
Professor Butcher.
All the facts were normally unknown to Mrs. Willett,
the books from which they might have been derived
were such as were most unlikely to have come under her
notice, being of interest only to specialists. None of the
group of investigators knew anything about Philoxenus
of Cythera and his work, until the occurrence of the
name 'Philox' in the script led Mrs. Verrall to make a
search. It was only a ripe scholar who could have
devised this literary puzzle, and even among scholars
there are comparatively few who could be credited
with the requisite knowledge.
Among these, however, was Dr. Verrall in his life-
time. Dr. Smyth's book, which contains the fullest
account, was in his possession and had been used by
him in connection with some of his lectures.
That it was not derived telepathically from the mfod
of someone living, cannot be disproved, but at the same
I
122 STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES
time it was found impossible to suggest any person who
could have filled the role. It seems unlikely that a
scholar, entirely unconnected with the group of experi-
menters, and probably unaware of their existence as
such, should, without any apparent motive or interest,
intervene subconsciously in the experiment and foist
upon the investigators a complicated and subtle literary
puzzle under false names.
Moreover, the positive indications that the source is
to be found in the minds of Dr. Verrall and Professor
Butcher, are, to say the least, significant.
The reminder in the first script to Mrs. Verrall of his
surprise at her ignorance concerning the 'Ear of
Dionysius' would have been very striking, but unfor-
tunately this point is vitiated by Lord Balfour's inability
to say with any certainty whether he had mentioned it
to Mrs. Willett or not. He, himself, believes that he did
not mention it, and Mrs. Willett had no _recollection
of having ever heard of it.
The characteristic traits and mannerisms of Dr.
Verrall which were so strongly shown in the 'Statius'
case, are not so apparent here· but are not wholly
absent.
I think that the conclusion to be drawn may be fairly
stated thus.
While there is not positive proof that the operating
mind was that of Dr. Verrall, assisted by Professor
Butcher, as is specifically claimed in the scripts, there is
strong evidence in support of that view, and to accept
any other alternative would require a stretching of hypo-
thesis and an unlikely combination of circumstances.
Moreover, if we accept the statement explicitly made
STATIUS AND EAR OF DIONYSIUS CASES 123
in the scripts, that a complex puzzle had been deli-
berately set and that the various quotations and
allusions were given as parts of that puzzle and aids
to solving it, then the view that other 'Communications,
some of which have been summarized earlier in this
book, bear the same character, receives considerable
support.
The fragmentary, enigmatic and allusive nature
of these communications is intentional, and their
obscurity is due not solely to the deficiencies of the
investigators. Puzzles which are too easily solved fail
of their purpose.
CHAPTER VII
WE must now address ourselves to the task of summing
up the evidence and arguments on both sides.
I should first, perhaps, explain what I consider to be
my position in the matter. I could have approached it
from the standpoint of an advocate briefed to argue in
support of one particular view - say the hypothesis that
the scripts were inspired by, and the information con-
tained therein derived from, the surviving personalities
of Myers, Gurney, Verrall, and the others. Had this
been so, I should have tried to present the evidence in
the light most favourable to that view, although I
should not have suppressed any that was unfavourable.
As regards the arguments, I should have felt it per-
missible to put forward only those which supported
my case, leaving those against it to 'counsel' on the
other side. If I mentioned hostile arguments at all, it
would have been only when I considered that I was
able to refute them.
But I do not conceive that my duty lies in this
direction; my function is more that of a judge who has
to sum up the evidence and arguments on both sides,
leaving it to the jury to decide.
The judge may indicate his own personal opinion,
but if he be truly impartial, he should lay as much
stress on those points which tell against it as on those
which support it.
In speaking of a jury, I mean, of course, the readers
124
SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION 125
of this book (with my usual caution, I feel bound to
put in the proviso, 'if there be any') but the analogy
is not quite exact.
A jury in an English Court has to find one way or the
other, in a Scottish Court there is a third alternative,
viz. 'Not proven,' but the juryman here is not called
upon to do this; the utmost that can be expected of
him is that he should decide on the relative probabilities
of the alternative hypotheses, of which there may, of
course, be more than two. It is not at all likely that he
will in any case be able to assess these probabilities at a
definite figure, and thus give a mathematically exact
verdict, the most that he will be able to say is that such
and such a view is highly probable. It will be lucky
if he can go even as far as this, most likely he will have
to be content with finding that the balance of prob-
ability lies in a particular direction.
As I said at the very outset, the scientific method
cannot yield certainty, and in this matter, as in many
others, we have to be, and are, content to act upon
probable hypotheses.
The first point to be noticed is that the cases which I
have cited are only a sample of a considerably larger
number. I think that this sample is fairly representative
of the whole, and I have included in it some which
appear to me to be of a lesser evidential value than was
assigned to them by the original investigators.
I have been most anxious not to overstate the case.
The sample is, in my opinion, sufficiently large to
enable the reader to form his judgment, and I doubt
whether he would have been aided in doing so had the
whole number been put before him, as those which have
126 SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION
been omitted do not contain any facts of a different
type.
To repeat evidence over and over again increases its
weight in one respect only, though this respect is of great
importance, viz. as against chance. Were we to find
in the scripts of several automatists one or two scattered
cases of cross correspondence, we might reasonably
attribute them to chance coincidence, but should they
occur in large numbers, the tenability of that hypothesis
is much lessened. Further, when this large number
of cross correspondences is accompanied by definite
indications of intention, and indeed, by explicit state-
ments in the scripts that they are parts of a planned
experiment, then explanation by chance alone can be
confidently rejected.
That the number of cross correspondences which
occurred in the scripts of this period is sufficient to
exclude chance, is a matter which the jury must decide,
and in making their decision they must bear in mind
quality as well as quantity.
When the topic mentioned is highly specific and not a
mere commonplace, the possibility of chance coinci-
dence is much lessened; thus, though two automatists
might very likely make references to the works of some
poet, say Tennyson, in their scripts of a particular short
period, that they should both refer, not only to the
same poem, but also to one particular passage or subject
in the poem, is much more unlikely. This, as we have
seen, is precisely what happened.
In my opinion the chance hypothesis has very little
to recommend it, though it is, of course, abstractly
possible. I have little doubt that the jury will be nearly
SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION 127
unanimous in their verdict against it. However, it is
for each individual juryman to decide for himself.
The next hypothesis is that of collusion or fraud.
Here we are, I think, on even firmer ground. Pre-
cautions to avoid any of the automatists acquiring
knowledge of the contents of the scripts of others were
taken. Where, in any particular case, an automatist
was in possession of such knowledge, the fact has been
mentioned and allowance made. The reader will
doubtless call to mind several instances of this.
But apart from this, the character of those engaged
affords an amply sufficient refutation of the hypothesis.
I cannot imagine that anyone would seriously suggest
that all those engaged in the experiment deliberately
set out to deceive. I do not think that I need add any-
thing to the comments which I have already made
on this point (see page 26).
In my opinion the hypothesis of fraud is so fantastic
that it need only be mentioned to be dismissed. Of
course, anyone is entitled to believe what absurdities
he pleases, but there are consequences entailed by
doing so; one of these consequences is that no attention
need be paid to the judgment of a person who seriously
entertains ridiculous beliefs.
The next point to be considered, is the nature of the
evidence and the possibility of mistake in reporting.
This possibility, which presents a very real difficulty in
most spontaneous cases, hardly arises here. When we
are dealing with eye-witness accounts of alleged super-
normal happenings, there is always a possibility of
mal-observation, and-even more important - of bad
reporting, exaggeration, lapse of memory, and so on.
128 SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION
But with the scripts of automatists none of these
possibilities exists; there is the permanent objective
evidence of the documents themselves. They can be
examined and studied at leisure. It is true that in a few
instances, particularly with Mrs. Piper, there was some
uncertainty in reading a word here and there, and, in
the spoken matter of the waking stage, difficulty of
hearing, but these form a very small proportion of the
whole and wherever they occurred they were noted and
allowance made.
Thus, it is that, from the point of view of the evidence
itself, these cross-correspondence cases stand at a far
· higher level than the bulk of the material with which
psychical research has to deal. The scripts are there
for anyone to examine, the only question is their inter-
pretation, and to this question we must now turn.
Even if, in face of the assertions of the automatists
themselves, it is denied that they were automatically
written in the sense described on page 19, we still
have to account for the concordance between them. Con-
scious collusion would have been fraudulent, and this we
have ruled out, chance coincidence we have already dis-
cussed ; it remains, therefore, to find another hypothesis.
In the case of Mrs. Piper the writing was done in
conditions which rendered it practically impossible for
her to have known what was being written; with the
other automatists I do not think that any reasonable
person would doubt their word. I am not, of course,
suggesting that Mrs. Piper's word is in any sense
untrustworthy, but the professional medium must be
prepared to be subject to a type of criticism which is not
levelled against the non-professional.
SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION 129
As a matter of personal opinion, I fully accept the
statements of all the automatists; whether this opinion
be shared by my readers is for them to decide, but even
if they disagree it does not materially affect the issue.
The main task is, therefore, to explain how the
concordance between the scripts of the different auto-
matists arose.
The first hypotheses to be tested are those of clair-
voyance and direct telepathy, or mind reading.
We have other evidence that these phenomena occur,
and if it can be shown that either of these hypotheses,
or a combination of both taken together, can be made
to account for the facts, then, by the canons of scientific
method, we must accept that explanation provisionally.
Further, we must be prepared to allow some stretch-
ing of the ordinary conception of clairvoyance and
telepathy; we know so little of the conditions in which
they occur and of their modusoperandi,that we cannot
lay down any hard and fast limits. Whether the
stretching which is required is reasonable or not is a
question for the jury to answer.
Clairvoyance has been defined as 'the supernormal
acquisition of knowledge about objective concrete
situations (page IO).
Let us see what would be entailed by supposing that
the cross correspondences were due to the exercise of
this faculty by one or other of the automatists. Auto-
matist A writes a script - that is an objective concrete
situation - Automatist B clairvoyantly becomes aware
of that script and is thus able to make references in her
own script to some topic contained therein. Of course
this all takes place subliminally.
130 SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION
Moreover, it is quite possible that the script of
Automatist B might make the reference oblique and
allusive, such a thing is not beyond the powers of the
subliminal mind.
To take a specific instance: in the 'Ave Roma
Immortalis' i;ase, Mrs. Holland might have become
clairvoyantly aware of Mrs. Verrall's scripts, and recog-
nized them as having reference to Roman history; her
own script comments thereon as one might say: 'Hullo!-
Rome.' The succeedings words : 'How could I make
it any clearer without giving her the clue,' are, perhaps,
more difficult to account for, but it is not beyond
possibility that they arose from subliminal invention,
particularly if the writer had knowledge of the cross-
correspondence idea.
But when one comes to apply the hypothesis to the
more complex cases, difficulties rapidly increase. Clair-
voyance would give knowledge only of what had
actually been written, so that if the concordance
between the scripts is not merely one of identity or
simple reference to the same topic, some further ampli-
fication of the hypothesis must be made. Where the
concordance consists of appropriate complementary
quotations, the question whether the clairvoyant auto-
matist had normal knowledge of their source imme-
diately arises. Where this was so we might suppose
that the elaboration was performed by her subliminal
mind, but when no normal knowledge was possessed,
as, for example, in Mrs. Holland's scripts, which
appeared to derive from Browning's 'Aristophanes'
Apology,' a poem which she had not read, we should
have to suppose that a further act of clairvoyance was
SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION 131
performed to give her supernormal knowledge of that
poem. But in that case, how did she know where the
words which she clairvoyantly perceived in the script
of the first automatist came from? To recognize the
quotation implies some knowledge of the source.
It is quite true to say that actual concrete records,
such as books and documents, were in existence in
almost all cases, and thus might, in the abstract, be
available to clairvoyant perception, but the difficulty is
to account for that perception being turned in the
proper direction.
Where there are several scripts concerned, or in cases
where the cross correspondence involves more than two
automatists, a further crop of difficulties arises.
Until we can lay down with some certainty the limits
of possible clairvoyance, we cannot say definitely that
explanation by that hypothesis is impossible, but if we
have to make a large number of unsupported assumptions
which ascribe to the faculty powers far exceeding any-
thing of which we have independent evidence, then its
plausibility becomes much weaker and we are com-
pelled to test other hypotheses.
If we can find one which covers the facts without
entailing similar assumptions, or which involves a
smaller number, we must accept it provisionally, pro-
vided that its antecedent improbability is not so great
as to outweigh its advantages in this respect. Let us,
therefore, test the hypothesis of telepathy between the
automatists. On this hypothesis simple correspondence
is easily explicable, but in the more complex cases,
where the corresponding reference in the second script
is indirect and allusive, we must suppose that the matter
132 SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION
had been previously elaborated in the subliminal mind
of the agent automatist, i.e. the one who sends the
message. This, in itself, is not impossible, nor, in fact,
too improbable to be accepted in most of the cases,
and were it not for one or two facts which appear to be
incompatible with it, it is the explanation which I,
personally, should be inclined to accept.
But these facts must be covered somehow, they
cannot be ignored.
For example, in the 'autos ouranos akumon' case,
Mrs. Verrall was led by the scripts to discover a con-
nection between Tennyson's 'In Memoriam' and
Plotinus, which she had not before suspected. Can we
assume that her subliminal mind knew of this connec-
tion before, as the result of some study and research,
she became supraliminally aware of it? In the 'One-
horsed dawn' case, she was normally ignorant of the
fact that 'herb moly' had any connection until a long
time after it had appeared in the script.
In the 'Lethe' case the appropriateness of the con-
junction of the names of Dante, Swedenborg and St.
Paul was not recognized until the clue given in the
script directed Mrs. Verrall's research.
There is one point on which I have already touched,
but perhaps insufficiently stressed. The suggestion that
the puzzles were devised and the communications
inspired by the subliminal mind of some one living
involves the ascription of intent to deceive. We must
assume, therefore, that this campaign of deception was
carried on consistently over a period exceeding twenty
years, during which the personnel of the group of
automatists changed from time to time as fresh recruits
SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION 133
came in or members dropped out. Several of the
recruits were unknown to the members of the group
before joining it, and in some cases they never became
personally acquainted. Yet the plan of cross corres-_
pondences was consistently carried on.
It is true that if it were within the power of an
hypothetical disembodied mind, or group of minds, to
initiate and carry out the plan, it is, so far as we can
see, equally within the power of an embodied mind.
There is no reason to suppose that the enfranchisement
from the prison of the flesh endows the surviving mind
with added powers of telepathy. It may be so, but in
the absence of any evidence, we must not assume it.
The point is that the embodied mind must have
had the intention to deceive, and it is hard to suppose
that this intention would persist over so long a period
covering so many changes.
Even more significant, perhaps, than the fact that
changes in the group of automatists produced so little
change in the character of the communications, is the
striking change which followed the death of Dr. Verrall.
He had, in his lifetime, taken no very active part in the
business, he was interested and gave advice, but was
neither an automatist nor an investigator, properly
speaking.
But immediately after his death we have two impor-
tant cases, the 'Statius' and the 'Ear of Dionysius,'
wherein he purports to appear as communicator, and
in these cases there is exhibited a manifest difference in
style which differentiaties them sharply from those
which purport to come from the Myers group.
On the other hand, the death in 1916 of Mrs. Verrall,
134 SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION
one of the principal automatists, made very little
difference in the character of the communications.
While these facts are not conclusive as against the
telepathic hypothesis, for it is possible that if the sub-
liminal mind of someone living were responsible for the
phenomena, that mind might have appreciated the
point, and utilized it as an aid in its plan of deception,
they seem to me to render that hypothesis considerably
less plausible.
Further, some of the .most characteristic individual
possessions of the human mind are the associations
which it makes between ideas. These associations are
the result of past history and are as clear an indication
of psychical individuality as finger-prints are of
physical. No two persons will make exactly the same
associations between ideas, because no two persons
have ever had exactly the same history.
If, then, we come across peculiar and unusual
associations which we subsequently discover to have
been made by some particular individual, there is good
reason to ascribe to that individual's mind some share
in their origin.
In many cases we find associations which had been
made by Myers in his lifetime, and were thus normal
for him, but which were unlikely to have been made
by the automatist; so that unless we can show that they
could have been derived from the latter's knowledge of
Myers' works or history, it is difficult to avoid the
conclusion that his mind was somehow responsible for
their appearance in the script. ,
In. the 'Statius' and 'Ear of Dionysius' cases, the
knowledge shown and the associations made were all
SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION 135
clearly appropriate to the mind of Dr. Verrall, or, in the
latter case, to Prof. Butcher's as well. It is not im-
possible that they might have been derived from the
subliminal mind of Mrs. Verrall, but in that case we
must credit her with supernormal knowledge of the
classical works and books of reference from which
alone that knowledge could have been drawn.
That many of the cases are in the nature of literary
puzzles can hardly be doubted, and if this be so, some
mind or minds must have designed them. It is too
improbable to be seriously suggested that the coherence
and design which is exhibited in the more complex
cases was simply due to chance. It is constantly claimed
that these puzzles have been set by that mind which
inspired the scripts and the claim seems, on the whole,
to be justifiable.
There was no person living who consciously and
supraliminally designed the puzzles, so we are left with
two alternatives, viz., that they were designed by the
subliminal mind of someone living, or by the surviving
mind of a deceased person. I think that we may
reasonably narrow down these alternatives by restrict-
ing the possible authorship to members of the group of
automatists and investigators on the one hand, and the
surviving personalities of Myers and his associates on
the other. It is, of course, possible that the source was
quite extraneous to either of these groups, but there is
no indication of any evidence that it was so.
Now any mind which possessed the requisite classical
and literary knowledge could have designed the
puzzles, and there were in both groups persons who
fulfilled this condition. It is true that in the case of the
136 SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION
living group there are some instances where the know-
ledge was not supraliminally possessed, as for example,
the connection between 'In Memoriam' and 'Plotinus'
and the others which I mentioned a few pages pre-
viously, but as we have no means of determining the
extent of the subliminal knowledge of any person, this
cannot be held to be decisive.
In speaking, as I have done, of a group of surviving
personalities, it must be understood that I do so only
as an hypothesis. Unless such hypothesis is a priori
impossible or of so high an antecedent improbability
as to be unworthy of serious consideration, it is per-
missible so to speak. There are those who, on other
grounds, have already come to the conclusion that the
death of the body entails the final extinction of any-
thing which could be called a personality or mind, and
for these no evidence, such as has been here presented,
will avail to influence their decision. They are quite
right in taking this attitude so long as they remain
satisfied that the grounds of their original conclusion
are adequate. For them survival is either impossible,
or so improbable as to be practically impossible, so
there is nothing more to be said about the matter.
However, there are many others, equally competent,
who do not accept this conclusion, and for them the
evidence of cross correspondences may possess validity.
As it is only such persons, if any, who are likely to read
this and similar books, it is to them alone that I address
my remarks.
We have now arrived at the position that the two
most probable hypotheses which we can make to
account for the facts are telepathy between the auto-
SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION 137
matists and/or the investigators, combined with ·
subliminal in excess of supraliminal knowledge, and
inspiration of some sort from the surviving personalities
of Myers and his group. Both these hypotheses, we
have agreed, are not so antecedently improbable as to
be rejected a priori,and it only remains to weigh one
against the other and to make a provisional decision
based on an estimate of their relative probabilities.
We have, as I see it, four relevant questions to answer.
First. What is the probability that any member of
the living group subliminally invented the plan of
cross correspondences, devised the literary puzzles and
foisted them on the other members of the group? In
considering this question it must be remembered that if
responsibility for the invention and execution of the
plan be ascribed to the subliminal mind of one of the
living group, we must also ascribe to that mind the
intention to deceive.
Second. What was the probability that a member of
the living group possessed the requisite subliminal
addition to his or her normal knowledge? In all cases
I think that it may be said that some member of the
other group had the necessary knowledge when alive.
Third. Were the associations displayed more appro-
priate to one group than to the other, and what was
the probability in the matter?
Fourth. Was the dramatic personation exhibited by
the scripts such as to warrant us in ascribing author-
ship, and, if so, with what degree of probability?
Regarding the first question, we have independent
evidence which tends to show that the subliminal mind
may indulge in deception of this kind, although I do not
K
138 SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION
know of any instances where it was carried to anything
approaching the pitch and elaboration here shown, nor
carried on- continuously over so long a period of
years.
As a rule these other cases of deception are simple
impersonations, as when messages purporting to come
from the surviving personalities of deceased human
beings ar~ given through a medium or automatist.
Moreover, there is the question of selection of the
material for the puzzles and the combination of the
various parts into .a coherent whole. This represents a
formidable task for some of the more complex cases.
However, the fact that this task was actually performed
by somemind, shows that it is not beyond the powers of
the subliminal, for we cannot admit that the supra-
liminal is necessarily superior in intelligence, if any-
thing the reverse may be true.
But I suggest that it may seem unreasonable to
attribute to the same level of consciousness intellectual
powers of a very high order and a rather stupid spirit
of trickery and deception. One would not expect a
scientist of the first rank to publish a set of false state-
ments and fallacious inferences, cunningly designed to
deceive, for the sole purpose of bolstering up an
erroneous hypothesis.
There is some internal evidence in the scripts which
bears on the matter. If we study the 'Statius' and 'Ear
of Dionysius' scripts, I think that we get a strong
impression that the author of these was well acquainted
with the plan but had had no actual experience of
carrying.it out. This seems to be the obvious meaning
of the words used in the first script in the 'Ear of
SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION 139
Dionysius' case: 'This sort of thing is more difficult to
do than it looked. '1 If the communications were in
some way inspired by Dr. Verrall, this remark is
singularly appropriate.
The communicator's style and technique in these two
cases seem somewhat different from those shown in the
cases attributed to Myers. This is what we Inight
expect if they were inspired by Dr. Verrall.
The second and third of these questions have been
discussed pretty fully in passing, and it is unnecessary
to add much here.
The 'Ear of Dionysius' case is, perhaps, the best
evidence on the matter, not only on account of the
richness of detail but also of the inaccessibility of the
source of the knowledge. That source was a highly
technical work by an American scholar, such that it
would be read by few even among classical students ;
the clue was given by the name of Philoxenus of Cythera,
a classical poet of whom very little is known.
The answer to the third question depends, of course,
upon the attitude taken up as regards the second. If
one of the automatists possessed the requisite subliininal
knowledge, she Inight have made the associations. On
the other hand, in the absence of such knowledge it is
highly unlikely that they would have occurred by mere
chance.
It must be remembered that where there are two or
more independent conditions of which the probability
has been assessed, the combined probability is the
product and not the sum of the individual probabilities
Thus, suppose that we assessed the probability m
1
Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXIX, p. 199.
140 SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION
Question r as 3 to r against a member of the living
group having devised the puzzles, i.e. probability = ¼,
and in Question 2 as 4 to r against such member hav-
ing the requisite subliminal knowledge, i.e. probability
= ½,
the combined probability against assigning author-
ship to that group is lo or r g to r against.
I do not suppose that any reader will feel disposed to
attempt to assign a numerical value to any of these
probabilities, such a thing is clearly impossible, but it is
well to bear in mind that two independent probabilities
reinforce each other to a greater extent than by mere
addition.
The conditions contained in Questions 3 and 4 are
not wholly independent, so the mode of combination
of their probabilities would not be the same as for
r and 2. However, if they be in the same sense they
lend added weight, if they be in the opposite sense they
may detract, but not necessarily to the same extent as
they would add. For example, if we felt pretty sure
that no member of the living group devised the puzzles
or had the requisite subliminal knowledge, the fact that
the dramatic personation was poor need not seriously
upset our confidence. It might be that dramatic
personation was not being aimed at.
Common sense is the only guide in this matter,
mathematical treatment is not applicable.
Concerning the fourth question, some further dis-
cussion is necessary. It must be remembered that some
of the automatists, in particular Mrs. and Miss Verrall
and all the investigators, were personally acquainted
with Myers and other members of the group in their
lifetimes; of the other automatists, Mrs. Piper must
SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION 141
have known Myers fairly well, for she stayed at his
house for some weeks, she was also well acquainted
with Hodgson as she had had a long series of sittings
with him in America.
It must be admitted that in the case of Myers the
characteristics or, as I have called it, the dramatic
personation shown in the scripts is very unequal.
But in this connection I would refer to the remarks
made by Sir Oliver Lodge, quoted on page gr, where-
in he points out that the Myers personalities which
come through the different automatists are not all
exactly the same; the Myers element is in no case pure
and undiluted.
The most striking instance of dramatic personation
is in the 'Statius' case, concerning which Rev. M. A.
Bayfield, a most intimate friend of Dr. Verrall's, writes :1
'These additional reasons for assigning to Dr. Verrall
the scripts which we are examining can, I fear, be fully
appreciated only by those who knew him somewhat
intimately, for they consist in the exhibition in the
scripts of two traits of his personality which, highly
characteristic though they are, would not be likely to
come under the notice of an ordinary acquaintance,
or be known by hearsay to a stranger.' Concerning
certain passages in the script, he writes :2
'All this is
Verrall's manner to the life in animated conversation.'
'When I first read the words quoted above I received a
series oflittle shocks, for the turns of speech are Verrall's,
the high-pitched emphasis is his, and I could hear the
very tones in which he would have spoken each
sentence.'
1
Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXVII, p. 244. 'ibid., p. 246.
142 SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION
He sums up in these words :1 'It remains to mention
one more point which also impresses me strongly. We
have here an extraordinarily faithful representation of
Verrall in respect of a peculiar kind of impatience and
a habit of emphasis which he had in conversation, and
of his playfulness and sense of humour. In what way
are these lifelike touches of character introduced?
How are they worked into the essential matter of the
scripts? Have they the air of being inserted by an
ingenious forger (the unprincipled subliminal of some
living person) with apurpose,in order to lend convincing
vraisemblance
to a fictitious impersonation; or do they
give us the impression of being spontaneous and genuine?
Unless I am inexcusably mistaken, no one accustomed
to estimate the internal evidence afforded by a docu-
ment of doubtful origin could hesitate as to the
answer.' 'To me, at least, it is incredible that even the
cleverest could achieve such an unexampled triumph in
deceptive impersonation as this would be if the actor
is not Verrall himself.'
It is, of course, difficult for those who have no
acquaintance with the dramatis personae to form a
judgment in this matter, but I think that the opinion of
one who, like Mr. Bayfield, counted Dr. Verrall as his
'oldest and dearest friend' must carry considerable weight.
Mrs. Willett's acquaintance with Dr. Verrall was
very slight, far too slight for her to have had so intimate
a knowledge of his personality as to reproduce his
characteristic mannerisms to the extent shown in the
scripts, so that unless we can ascribe the whole thing
to telepathy from some living mind, there seems a
'Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXVII, p. 249.
SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION 143
high probability that it was somehow inspired by the
surviving consciousness of Dr. Verrall.
Finally, before submitting the case to the jury for
their verdict, there is one general consideration which
must be mentioned. We can understand, or at least
we think that we can understand, pretty well what is
meant by communication from a living person, whether
fro~ the supraliminal or subliminal part of the mind.
It is true, perhaps, that if we tried to state definitely
what is implied by this partition of the mind, we might
get into serious difficulties. I, personally, think that
we should most certainly do so.
But without going into the metaphysics of the thing,
we have a rough idea sufficient for the purposes of the
hypothesis.
We have experience of countless instances of supra-
liminal mental events and we also have experiential
knowledge of other events which look as though they
were mental yet are dearly not supraliminal. It is
these which we call subliminal. We may not under-
stand fully their nature or modusoperandi,but they are
sufficiently familiar for us to feel at home with them.
The same may be said, though in a somewhat less
degree, of telepathy; we do not understand it, but we
have come across it sufficiently frequently for us to
employ the conception of it in our hypotheses without
feeling much discomfort.
Thus it is that we can put forward the explanation of
telepathy from the living, combined with sublminal
knowledge in excess of the normal, and feel more or less
satisfied that we know what we are talking about.
But communication from, or inspiration by, the
144 SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION
surviving consciousness of deceased human beings is a
very 'different pair of shoes.' I know that many,
perhaps most, people would, at first sight, see no
particular difficulty in the conception of survival,
whether they accept it as fact or not. They might say:
'I know what I mean when I talk about the mind or
consciousness of a living human being, I also know
what I mean when I talk about his body; the two things
are clearly distinguishable. By survival, therefore,
I mean that the first goes on existing when the second
has been destroyed.'
This attitude, however, involves a good many
assumptions, both explicit and implicit, for which we
have no sufficient warrant.
The only minds of which we have any experiential
knowledge are embodied minds, we have no certain
knowledge of a disembodied one. We do not know
that the conditions of space and time to which we are
accustomed prevail in the state of existence which the
hypothetical disembodied mind must occupy; neither
do we know that the familiar categories of cause and
effect, sameness and difference and of number, apply in
that state. They may do so but until we have some
definite experience on which to found them, our
opinions on the matter can never be more than
assumptions, which, however plausible they may be,
are not based on experiential knowledge.
Moreover, experience seems to be subject to certain
fundamental laws or principles: these have been
variously formulated; as an example I would cite the
law known as the 'Law of Contradiction.' This states
that two contradictory propositions cannot both be
SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION 145
true at the same time; or the law of' Excluded Middle.'
A either is B or is not B.
These laws appear to us to be self-evidently true; we
cannot conceive an exception. Yet we have no right
to assume that they necessarily apply in a state of
existence of which we have no knowledge whatsoever :
the King's writ may run all over his dominions, but not
necessarily across the frontier.
To discuss the matter further, would take us too far
out on the perilous waters of metaphysical speculation,
but I can give one example. Speaking for myself I
think that I have an unescapable conviction of being
one and only one person, my moods may vary but be-
hind them all is one and only one 'me.' I cannot con-
ceive myself as being split up into two, or as merging into
someone else's self. I am I and no one else. Of course I
may be unique in this, but I imagine that most people
feel the same.
But Sir Oliver Lodge speaks of the Myers personali-
ties as manifested through the various automatists not
being all the same: there is some part of Myers present
but the personality of the script is a compound or
mixture. 1
1
It should be noted that this opinion, expressed by Sir Oliver Lodge,
is only one possible interpretation of the facts. They may be explained
equally well in the following manner. We derive our conception of the
communicating personality solely from the internal evidence of the
scripts. It is as though we were forming an estimate of the character
of some one, of whom we had no other knowledge, by reading letters
which he had written. Now, if these letters had been the joint production
of two people, say, that they had been written by a secretary, not from
dictation, but from notes supplied, they would exhibit a compound or
mixture of characteristics. The scripts may be looked upon as being of
this nature, the communicator inspires them in some way, but the
automatist acts as secretary rather than as a mere amanuensis, and thus
contributes a considerable share of the internal characteristics.
146 SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION
We may be unable, with our embodied minds, to
conceive how two separate personalities can merge into
one, yet if disembodied minds exist at all, the condi-
tions of their existence may, for all that we know, be
such that the hard and fast lines of demarcation
between individualities no longer prevail. If, while I
am in the body, I am I and no one else, it does not
necessarily follow that when freed from the body this
will remain true. It might be, as some have held, that
the disembodied mind or soul is somehow reabsorbed
into a cosmic soul and yet retains its personality.
Moreover, the mewhich I recognize as myself in this
life is a composite entity, it is composed of both mental
and physical factors. This is immediately obvious if
one considers how great is the influence on the self of
the state of bodily health, what sweeping change in
character may be produced by drugs or injury to the
brain. But, although it is generally agreed that there
is a factor in the manifested personality due to the
physical organism, there is wide divergence of opinion
as to its extent and importance.
The tendency of physiologists and some psychologists
is to assign to the physical the predominant share in the
partnership, many authorities even go so far as to reduce
mind to the level of a sort of by-product, an epipheno-
menon as it is called, of the working of the cerebro-
neural organism. If, however, these extreme views
should be correct it is oflittle use to discuss the question
of survival, for; while survival may remain conceivably
possible, it seems so highly improbable as to be hardly
worth consideration.
To discuss the matter in all its aspects is quite beyond
SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION 147
the scope of this book, but I have thought it right thus
briefly to mention it, so that, in considering their
verdict on the evidence put before them, my readers
may avoid falling into the error of assuming that the
nai've, uncritical hypothesis of survival, i.e. that that
which survives is an exact replica of the personality
which was manifested in this life, is the only possible
alternative to complete extinction.
They are at liberty to hold that evidence establishes
a probability that there is some sort of survival of
personality, while leaving undefined the exact nature
of that personality and the conditions in which it exists.
That so large a tincture of agnosticism should per-
vade our opinions is, in my opinion inevitable and not
undesirable. Though it may be that the 'me' which I
have recognized as myself in this life may cease to be
after physical death, there may be a larger 'me' which
survives. 1
To some this may appear an unsatisfactory conclusion,
and extinction of that which they have been accustomed
to regard as being their total and only self, an unwelcome
thought, but it must be remembered that if that self
no longer exist it can no longer suffer any pain or dis-
appointment, while, if there be a larger self which
survives, that survival may be far more satisfying to it -
than would be any continuance of the partial mani-
festation which played its fleeting part in this life.
This then is the case for survival as presented by the
evidence of cross correspondences and automatism,
and I leave it to the jury of my readers to form their
own op1mons.
1
See last sentence of the passage from Human Personality,quoted on
p. 12.
APPENDIX I
To those of my readers who are sufficiently interested
I would suggest three experiments.
First. Let them try to construct cross correspon-
dences normally. Thus, let an author be chosen with
whose works they are well acquainted, and then some
topic or quotation be picked out. Then from another
book by the same author or from a different part of the
same book other quotations must be sought which bear
allusively on this topic, yet avoid direct mention of it.
Punning references may be employed. When this had
been done let the two sets be submitted to some person,
who will play the part of investigator, to see whether
the puzzle can be solved. Should he fail to do so, a
further clue can be sought which will bind it all together
into a coherent and intelligible whole.
If this experiment be tried, it will, I think, be found
that a good deal of research, knowledge and ingenuity
is required and that, in the words of Mrs. Willett's
'Verran-' communicator, 'This sort of thing is more
difficult to do than it looked.'
Second. Choose a book by an author with whose
works you are well acquainted, and from it pick a
passage by chance. You could open it at random and,
with the eyes shut, put your finger on the page, then
take the passage indicated. Do the same thing with
another such book and then try to work out a cross
correspondence between the two passages. This
149
APPENDIX I
experiment will give an indication of how far pure
chance is likely to have been responsible for the con-
cordance found between the scripts of the automatists.
The third experiment is to try to obtain automatic
writing.
Quite a large proportion of those who have tried
have succeeded in obtaining automatic writing, but
there is no reason to suppose that in any except a very
few cases there was anything else involved beyond some
level of the subliminal mind of the writer.
The process is quite easy; one simply sits holding a
pencil with the hand resting on a sheet of paper in the
attitude of writing and allows the mind to drift. Con-
_scious attention must be withdrawn from the hand.
Probably nothing will result from the first attempts, but
with perseverance there is a fair chance of success.
Once the first scrawling motions are made experience
will show what are the best conditions and the best
methods. A planchette could also be tried, or some
form of ouija board.
But I would add a most emphatic warning. Leave it
all severely alone unless you are prepared to maintain
a cool, detached and preferably rather sceptical
attitude towards the phenomena. It should be treated
seriously, of course, but not emotionally. If the experi-
menter is prone to· see in every script messages from
the dead or weighty pronouncements from august
spiritual beings, then the experiment had better be
dropped.
Scripts must be judged from the nature of their
contents and in so judging it should be borne in mind
that there is a level of the subliminal mind which is apt
APPENDIX I
to be rather 'tricky' and is not above staging a false
impersonation.
The very large bulk of the matter which comes
through most automatists is only a kind of dream stuff,
it is only on very rare occasions and with very few
specially gifted automatists that anything supernormal,
such as telepathy or clairvoyance, may occur. If the
automatist is imbued with the idea that the spirits of the
dead will communicate through the scripts, it is quite
likely that the subliminal mind will endeavour to
'oblige' by supplying plausible sounding messages.
Where it is possible, those who desire to try the
experiment should seek guidance and advice from some
experienced person.
I repeat my warning: leave it alone altogether unless
you are quite sure that you can adopt and maintainthe
cool, detached, scientific attitude, otherwise you will
run the risk of self-deception and possible mental and
moral disturbance.
LIST OF REFERENCES
FoR the convenience of those who wish to make a
thorough examination of the question, I append a list
of the Volumes of Proceedings
in which may be found the
full reports. It will be noticed that there are a great
many cases of cross correspondence to which I have
not referred.
Vol. XX, pages 1-432. Mrs. Verrall. 'On a Series of
Automatic Writings.' Her methods are described and
reports of the first cross correspondence cases, mostly
simple, are given. It also gives examples of telepathic
phenomena, etc.
Vol. XXI, pages 166-391. Miss A. Johnson. 'On the
Automatic Writing of Mrs. Holland.' Description is
given of the development of the phenomena and many
cases of cross correspondence, including the 'Ave Roma
Immortalis' case. Miss Johnson also gives the first clear
exposition of the theory of cross correspondences.
Vol. XXII, pages 19-416. Mr. J. G. Piddington. 'A
Series of Concordant Automatisms.' This contains
reports of a large number of cases of cross correspondence,
both simple and complex. It is a most important source
of information.
Vol. XXII, pages 417-40. Mrs. Sidgwick. 'An Incident
in Mrs. Piper's Trance.' This describes an incident, not
a case of cross correspondence.
Vol. XXIII, pages 122-6. Mrs. Sidgwick and Mr. Pid-
dington. 'Note on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control in
England in 1906-7. A discussion offeatures of the control.
152
LIST OF REFERENCES
Vol. XXIII, pages 286-303. Prof. A. C. Pigou. 'Psychical
Research and Survival after Bodily Death.' A criticism
of the cross-correspondence evidence for survival.
Vol. XXIV, pages 2-10. Miss A.Johnson. 'Supplementary
Notes on the First Report on Mrs. Holland's Script.'
Vol. XXIV, pages 11-30. Mr. J. G. Piddington. Supple-
mentary Notes on' A Series of Concordant Automatisms.'
Vol. XXIV, pages 31-8. Mrs. Sidgwick, Mrs. Verrall and
Mr. J. G. Piddington. Joint Introduction to a series of
three articles on 'Further Experiments with Mrs. Piper
in 1908.' This includes list of sittings and references.
Vol. XXIV, pages 39-85. Mrs. Verrall. 'Classical and
Literary Allusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance.'
Vol. XXIV, pages 86-169. Mr.J. C. Piddington. 'Three
Incidents from the Sittings: "Lethe," "The Sibyl," "The
Horace Ode" Question.'
Vol. XXIV, pages 170-200. Mrs. Sidgwick. 'Cross
correspondences between Mrs. Piper and Other Auto-
matists.'
Vol. XXIV, pages 201-63. Miss A. Johnson. 'Second
Report on Mrs. Holland's Script.' Contains reports on
several cases of cross correspondence, including the
complex case, 'Sevens.' Also a reply to Professor Pigou's
criticisms.
Vol. XXIV, pages 264-318. Mrs. Verrall. 'A New Group
of Experimenters.' A description of the phenomena of
the 'Mac' group.
Vol. XXIV, pages 319-26. Miss A. Johnson. 'Sequel to
the "Sesame and Lilies" Incident.'
Vol. XXIV, pages 327-8. Mr. J. G. Piddington. 'Post-
script to the "Lethe" Incident.'
Vol. XXV, pages 113-75. Sir Oliver Lodge. 'Evidence of
Classical Scholarship and of Cross-Correspondence in
some New Automatic Writing.' This contains the report
on the 'Lethe' case in Mrs. Willett's script and discussion
thereon.
L
154 LIST OF REFERENCES
Vol. XXV, pages 176-217. Mrs. Verrall. 'Notes on Mrs.
Willett's Scripts of February, 1910.' These bear on the
'Lethe' and other cases.
Vol. XXV, pages 218-303. Miss A. Johnson. 'Third
Report on Mrs. Holland's Script.' Reports of cross
correspondences. Mostly simple. Also note on the
principle of Selection in the Production of Scripts.
Vol. XXV, pages 304-19. Mrs. Verrall. No~e on the
Cross Correspondence " Cup." '
Vol. XXV, pages 320-37. Mrs. Verrall. 'Miss Verrall's
Script of March 16th, 1908 : a Correction and an Addi-
tion.'
Vol. XXVI, pages 24-56. Mrs. Verrall. 'A Month's
Record of Cross Correspondences.'
Vol. XXVI, pages 57-144. Dr. Joseph Maxwell, M.D.
'Correspondances Croisees.' Criticism of the evidence
and theory of Cross Correspondences.
Vol. XXVI, pages 145-6. Editorial Note on above.
Vol. XXVI, pages 147-70. Mrs. Anna Rude. 'The Latin
Message Experiment : A Criticism.'
Vol. XXVI, pages 171-3. Mr. J. G. Piddington. 'Note on
Mrs. Hude's Paper.'
Vol. XXVI, pages 174-220. Mr. J. G. Piddington. 'A
Hitherto Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode
Question.'
Vol. XXVI, pages 221-30. The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour.
'Some Observations on Mr. Piddington's Paper.'
Vol. XXVI, pages 231-44. Mr. J. G. Piddington. 'A
Reply to Mr. Balfour's Observations.'
Vol. XXVI, pages 245-50. Mr. J. G. Piddington. 'Two
Tennysonian Quotations in Mrs. Verrall's Script.'
Vol. XXVI, pages 375-400. Mrs. Sidgwick. 'A Reply to
Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper on "Cross Correspon-
dences" and the Experimental Method.'
Vol. XXVI, pages 401-18. Appendices to above by Mrs.
Verrall, Miss A. Johnson and Mr. J. G. Piddington.
LIST OF REFERENCES 155
Vol. XXVII, pages 1-156. Miss A. Johnson. 'A Recon-
struction of some "Concordant Automatisms." This
contains additional details of the' Ave Roma immortalis.'
Latin Message, 'Hope, Star and Browning,' 'Alexander's
(Medici) Tomb,' 'Autos ouranos akumon' and 'Claviger
(Light in the West)' cases, and discussion thereon.
Vol. XXVII, pages 221-43. The Right Hon. Gerald W.
Balfour. 'Some Recent Scripts affording Evidence of
Personal Survival.' The 'Statius' case.
Vol. XXVII, pages 244-9. Rev. M.A. Bayfield. 'Note on
the same Script.'
Vol. XXVII, pages 250-78. Mrs. Verrall. 'A Further
Study of the Mac Scripts.'
Vol. XXVII, pages 458-91. Mr. Hereward Carrington,
Ivor Lloyd Tuckett, M.D., and Rev. M.A. Bayfield. 'A
Discussion of the Willett Scripts.' Messrs. Carrington and
Tuckett criticize the report on the 'Statius' case. Mr.
Bayfield answers their criticisms.
Vol. XXIX, pages 1-45. Mr. J. G. Piddington. 'Cross-
Correspondences of a Gallic Type.' This contains
accounts of several fresh cases and criticizes the views
expressed by Dr. Geley and Dr. Joseph Maxwell.
Vol. XXIX, pages 197-243. The Right Hon. Gerald W.
Balfour. 'The Ear of Dionysius: Further Scripts Afford-
ing Evidence of Personal Survival.'
Vol. XXIX, pages 245-59. Mrs. Sidgwick. 'On the
Development of Different Types of Evidence for Survival
in the Work of the Society.' This includes a discussion
of the Cross Correspondence evidence.
Vol. XXIX, pages 260-9. Miss F. Melian Stawell. 'The
Ear of Dionysius : A Discussion of the Evidence.'
Vol. XXIX, pages 270-86. The Right Hon. Gerald W.
Balfour. 'The Ear of Dionysius: A Reply.'
Vol. XXIX, pages 306-49. Mrs. W. H. Salter (neeMiss
Verrall). 'SomeExperimentswithaNewAutomatist.' Con-
tains accounts of some fresh cases of cross correspondence.
LIST OF REFERENCES
Vol. XXX, pages 115-229. Mr. J. G. Piddington. 'Fresh
Light on the "One-Horse Dawn" Experiment.'
Vol. XXX, pages 291-5. Sir Oliver Lodge. 'Note on Mr.
Piddington's paper called "Fresh Light on the 'One-
Horse Dawn' Experiment."'
Vol. XXX, pages 296-9. Mr. J. G. Piddington. 'A Reply
to Sir Oliver Lodge's Note.'
Vol. XXXVI, pages 345-75. Mr. J. G. Piddington. 'One
Crowded Hour of Glorious Life' cross-correspondence
case.
Vol. XXXVI, 455-70. Mr. A. F. Hall. 'Criticism of Mr.
Piddington's paper on "One Crowded Hour of Glorious
Life" case.'
Vol. XXXVI, pages 471-6. Mr. J. G. Piddington. 'Reply
to Mr. A. F. Hall.'
Vol. XXXVI, pages 477-505. Mr.J. G. Piddington. 'The
Master Builder' cross-correspondence case.
Vol. XXXVI, pages 525-54. Mr. W. H. Salter. An
Experiment in Pseudo-Scripts. An accoµnt of an attempt
to determine how far chance could produce cross-
correspondences.
Vol. XLIII, pages 41-318. Gerald William Earl of
Balfour. 'A Study of the Psychological Aspects of Mrs.
Willett's Mediumship, and of the Statements of the
Communicators Concerning Process.' This paper, though
it makes no direct reference to cross correspondences,
contains most important discussion of the process and
methods.
GLOSSARY
Of terms, and special uses of words, commonly
found ·in the literature of psychical research.
Agent. One who takes the part of transmitter in telepathic
communication.
Automatic writing. Writing executed without the conscious
use of thought or muscular control by the writer. The
term is also applied when the act of writing is consciously
directed but the origin of the words or ideas is unknown
to the writer.
Automatist. One who writes, speaks, or performs other
significant action, without conscious volition. The term
is somewhat widely applied, so as to include cases in
which only the mental action involved is involuntary.
Auto-suggestion. Suggestion applied to onesel£ (See
Suggestion.)
Clairaudience.Perception as sound of an impression in some
way true to fact, and not perceptible to the ordinary
senses.
Clairvoyance. Perception of real objects or facts not within
range of the ordinary senses. (Strictly used of perception
in visual form; but the word often denotes paranormal
perception of other kinds.)
Communicator.A personality seeming to be that of a deceased
person or other discarnate being.
Control. (1) A personality regularly represented as using
and taking charge of a medium during trance; (2) The
direction of a medium's speech or action by another
personality.
Discarnate. Disembodied, opposed to incarnate.
157
GLOSSARY
Dissociation. Independent activity of a part of the mind,
which behaves in some way like a separate individual.
Externalized. This word is used of an impression, arising
within the mind, which is perceived as though comin:,
from without.
Extra-SensoryPerception. (Abbreviated, E.S.P.). Perception
without use of the known senses. A general term, used to
include such conceptions as telepathy, clairvoyance and
precognition.
Hallucination. A supposed sensory perception which has no
objective cause within the range of the sense concerned.
(A hallucination may or may not represent a fact under-
lying the impression received.)
Illusion. The misinterpretation by the mind of something
actually perceived.
lrifl,uenced
Writing. Writing in which the flow of ideas is
affected as though by unspoken suggestion from another
mind.
Medium. One able to respond to and give expression to
paranormal influences, expecially those appearing to be
personal influences. -
Metagnome. An alternative and less question-begging term
for 'Medium', introduced by Boirac. Driesch defines
it as 'a person from whom supernormal phenomena
originate or in express relation to whom these phenomena
occur.'
Paragnosis.
Paranormal.
effect.
Equivalent to extra-sensory perception.
Outside accepted experience of cause and
Percipient. One who takes the part of receiver in telepathic
communication.
Phantasm. The appearance of a person (in less common
usage, also of a thing or event) as conveyed to the mind
in hallucination.
Precognition.Perception or awareness of future event, apart
from information or inference.
GLOSSARY
Psychic. This word is applied in general science to all
action that has a mental as distinct from a physical basis.
In popular speech it has a wide usage qenoting anything
paranormal. In psychical research the word is largely
avoided as ambiguous, but it can occur in either the
scientific or in the popular sense.
Purporting. Professing or seeming. It is said that a pheno-
menon 'purports' to be due to some paranormal cause
when the evidence for such a cause is intended to be
taken without prejudice for or against.
Retrocognition. Perception or awareness of past event not
known to or within the memory of the perceiver.
Script. A piece of automatic writing: the record of an
automatist's utterance.
Subliminal. Lying beneath the 'threshold' of consciousness.
Practically equivalent to subconscious, or to 'uncon-
scious' as a psychological term.
Suggestion. The impressing of ideas or feelings upon the
mind, one's own or another's, so that they become effec-
tive without conscious volition on the part of the mind
impressed.
Supernormal. See paranormal. The word does not neces-
sarily imply a superior level of action or being.
Telekinesis. The causing of material objects to move without
touching them or subjecting them to any known physical
force.
Telepathy. Transmission of an image, idea or impulse from
one mind to another by paranormal action of the minds
concerned.
Veridical. Conveying facts, or ideas that can be shown to
have basis in fact.
THE SOCIETY FOR
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
founded 1882
The Society is always grateful for
information relating to occurrences
that seem to be of a paranormal
nature, and is also prepared to advise
members of the public, free of charge,
in cases where unexplained pheno-
mena have occurred, or on general
questions of psychical research.
Particulars of Membership, and other
information relating to the Society's
activities may be obtained from the
Secretary at the following address'.
31 Tavistock Squf,lre
London W.C.1
Telephone
EUSton 2934
