{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__ransom___a_short_history_of_the_theosophical_society.pdf","mytitle":"A Short History Of The Theosophical Society","mylang":"de"}
A SHORT HISTORY OF
THE THEOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY
C O M P I L E D B Y
JOSEPHINE
RANSOM
WITH A PREFACE BY
G. S. ARUNDALE
-1938
THEOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING HOUSE
ADYAR, MADRAS, INDIA
P U B L I S H E D B Y —
THE THEOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING HOUSE
Adyar, Madras, India
P R I N T E D B Y —
C. Subbarayudu at THE VASANTA PRESS
Adyar, Madras, India
C O P Y R I G H T • ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
THE G O LD E N ST A IR S
A clean life, an open mind, a pure heart, an eager
intellect, an unveiled spiritual perception, a brotherliness
for one’s co-disciple, a readiness to give and receive
advice and instruction, a loyal sense of duty to the
Teacher, a willing obedience to the behests of TRUTH,
once we have placed our confidence in, and believe that
Teacher to be in possession of it;'a courageous endu­
rance of personal injustice, a brave declaration of prin­
ciples, a valiant defence of those who are unjustly attacked,
and a constant eye to the ideal of human progression and
perfection which the secret science depicts—these are
the golden stairs up the steps of which the learner may
climb to the Temple of Divine Wisdom.
B
Dedicated
to all
Theosophists
P R E F A C E
T he Theosophical Society has reason to be grateful
to Mrs. Ransom for this short history of its growth
from 1875 to 1937. Both Colonel Olcott’s Old Diary
Leaves and Mr. Jinarajadasa’s Golden Book o f The
Theosophical Society are histories, but neither are they
short histories, nor was there at the disposal of their
writers a considerable amount of important material
which has only recently been discovered in The
Society’s Archives.
In any case, it is highly desirable that from time
to time histories of The Society shall be written,
partly to bring existing histories up to date, but also
to be the medium for that new light on the work of
The Society which from time to time will show more
clearly the real, and sometimes the inner, trend of its
activities.
It stands to reason that this short History will by
no means satisfy everybody : This should have been
given more prominence ; that should have been
relegated to obscurity ; such and such an event has,
in the critic’s view, been entirely misconstrued. No
two people will see the history of The Society alike,
and this fact is one of the reasons for the value of
many histories, so that many angles of vision from
which The Society’s life is viewed may be set forth.
V ili
And I need hardly say, I hope, that The Theosophi-
cal Society as such has no official responsibility for
any statement made in this History’s pages. This
History is not an official history, and I venture to
think that either we shall never have an official his­
tory, or that if ever we have one it will be written
under the mellowing influences of long distances of
time after the events described have taken place.
But I feel bound to say with all emphasis that
Mrs. Ransom, as a very impersonal student of Theo­
sophy and The Theosophical Society, has been
scrupulous to state facts and only facts, and has
chapter and verse for every line and page. The
fact that the History has been designed to be short
has made its writing much more difficult, for it is as
difficult to avoid making a bare statement too bare
as it is to avoid making a full statement too full. She
has, however, been careful to omit nothing that has
seemed to be essential to clarity and justice, and
from my own perusal of every page of the manuscript
I think she has been most successful in conveying to
us the bare truth as to The Society’s growth without
allowing to appear any of those frills of interpreta­
tion which too often conceal, or at least distort, the
truth itself.
It may some day be possible to embark upon
the expense of a large history of The Theosophical
Society. In the mean time, since such expense
would be prohibitive and the wisdom of such a
publication at present doubtful, I am sure this short
account of The Society’s life up to 1937 will supply a
IX
longfelt want, for every active member of The
Society should find constant use for a careful and
entirely unbiassed history both for his own enlighten­
ment and to help to refute the many misconceptions
so prevalent in the outer world.
As there is likely to be a considerable demand for
this book ? Mrs. Ransom (care of The Theosophical
Publishing House, Adyar, Madras) will be glad to
receive as soon as possible any corrections of fact
which readers may be able to offer out of their special
facilities for information. These will, as verified, be
embodied in subsequent editions.
Adyar, 1938
C O N TEN TS
PAGE
PREFACE . vii
Introductory . . . .
Spiritualism . . . .
I
7
Helena Petrovna Blavatsky 27
Henry Steel Olcott 35
The Masters 42
1874-75 : Preparation 57
1875-79: The Theosophical Society 76
Appendix I. The Other Founders 110
II. The Theosophical Society and The
Arya Samaj 115
1879-82 In India 123
The Subba Row Medal 189
1884 The Founders visit Europe 191
The Indian National Congress 207
1884-5 The Coulomb Conspiracy 209
1885-7 Expansion in East and West 217
The Key to Theosophy 263
1888-91 H. P. B.’s Last Years 265
1892-95 Stormy Years 286
1896-1900 Peaceful Growth 316
1901-05 The New Century. Opens with Promise 340
1906-07 Problems of Morality 355
1908-12 Under Mrs. Besant’s Leadership 375
1913-18 Theosophy applied 401
1919-24 Problems of Neutrality 430
1925 The Fiftieth Year 467
1926-30 New Aspects of Brotherhood 473
1931-33 Pause 479
Xll
PAGE
1934-37 Under Dr. Arundale’s Leadership . 514
Conclusion . . . 543
Objects and Rules of The Theosophical
Society . . . . 545
National Socities . . . 554
Activities undertaken or promoted by
Members . . . 554
Bibliography, etc., . . . 559
Index . . . . 565
IN T R O D U C T O R Y
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY is a World-Movement
of ever-expanding influence and power. Like all truly great
movements its sources are not to be sought in mundane regions
and activities, but in the heights of superhuman spiritual
realities, whence emerge those forces which direct evolutionary
destiny. Since this is so, it is necessary to approach a history
of The Theosophical Society with a brief summary of its
inner origins.
It has been consistently affirmed by all who have
exercised the highest authority in The Society that these
origins are to be found in a group of Superhuman Men,
Teachers, Masters, Adepts, Whose universal knowledge of
evolution and its laws constitutes them the wise Initiators
and Guides of all movements designed to influence profound­
ly the growth of the world, and Whose directions The Theo­
sophical Society has, through its leaders, with considerable
success striven to follow.
One chapter, however brief, must be devoted to an
attempt to summarise from accessible information the nature
and work of these Superhuman Men. This information re­
mains somewhat meagre, though more is now available
publicly than was ever before disclosed. The purpose, it is
declared, of Those among Them interested in promoting The
Theosophical Society was :
1. " . . . to assist in showing to men that such a
thing as Theosophy exists, and to help them to ascend
towards it by studying and assimilating its eternal verities."
This department of the work of The Society was entrusted
2 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
to Madam Helena Petrovna Blavatsky (H. P. B.) because of
her rare and precious gifts.
2. To promote " a genuine practical Brotherhood of
Humanity, where all will become co-workers with Nature "
. . . " a real Universal Fraternity." ' In this department
Colonel Henry Steel Olcott proved eminently practical
and effective.
A chapter must be devoted to the lives of each of the
“ Co-Founders” of The Society, as, without some acquaint­
ance with their powerful personalities, it would not be easy
to understand the development of the Theosophical Move­
ment while they remained responsible for it, under the
Masters’ guidance.
At the time The Society was formed “ Modern Spiritual­
ism ” was attracting serious and world-wide attention. Both
Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott were for some years
deeply concerned with this movement ; the former purpose­
fully defended and explained true Spiritualism, and exposed
its abuses ; the latter investigated its phenomena. Many
noted 'Spiritualists throughout the world became members of
The Society and assisted its growth. Some indication must
therefore be given of the position and influence of Spiritual­
ism at that period.
The Theosophical Society has passed through several
well-marked and profoundly important phases. They are :
1. From its Inception in 1875 to 1884
During this time H. P. B. and Col. Olcott are together
laying distinctive and enduring foundations. Isis Unveiled is
published, challenging scientific “ materialism ” and religious
dogmatism. The Headquarters, and all Executive powers,
are transferred from America to India, where H. P. B. and
Col. Olcott finally establish themselves in the first Occult
Centre at Adyar, Madras. Both in India and Ceylon
they stimulate the various religions into renewed activity,
1Mahatma Letters, pp. 23-4.
INTRODUCTORY 3
Buddhism particularly. H. P. B. continues to excite keen
world-wide interest by her constant and striking phenomena.
Mr. A. P. Sinnett is given instruction by actual correspondence
with various Masters, which he ably embodies in several
books. The Theosophist is started (and is still pursuing its
successful career). The Society commences that expansion
throughout the world which continues, despite periodic dis­
turbances within and attacks from without. The note of
Brotherhood begins to sound forth insistently.
2. From 1885 to 1891
In Madras the attack upon H. P. B., in which Christian
Missionaries engage, is launched. The Society for Psychical
Research, recently formed, takes upon itself to appoint an
inexperienced investigator to examine the issues raised by the
attack. Statements are published, no defence is permitted,
and the self-appointed judges declare H. P. B. an impostor,
and her previous phenomena, of which they knew nothing,
to be fraudulent. H. P. B. leaves India to reside in Europe,
then in London. She immerses herself in writing the famous
epitome of Theosophy, The Secret Doctrine, and other most
valuable books, in starting and editing the magazine Lucifer,
and in teaching the essentials of Theosophy. She establishes
the Eastern or Esoteric School of Theosophy to train in
practical occultism those prepared to make the necessary
effort in self-discipline and trustworthiness. Men and women
of note gather round her. The Theosophical Society is now
greatly expanded. The Adyar Library is opened. Col. Olcott
develops his notable efforts to draw all the Buddhist sects
in several countries into a great unity. H. P. B. passes.
3. 1892 to 1907
W. Q. Judge, one of the original members who had done
much excellent work for The Society in the U. S. of America,
attempts to secure the Presidentship. He fails. He secedes,
together with a large majority of the Lodges in the United
4 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
States. Mrs. Annie Besant rises to prominence, and com­
mences her magnificent services to India along religious,
educational, social, and later political lines. Hinduism is
greatly stimulated. She becomes sole head of the Esoteric
School. She travels very widely in the interests of The
Society, as does Col. Olcott. Dissensions arise over a line
of action taken by Mr. C. W. Leadbeater and cause much
perturbation. Col. Olcott passes.
4. 1907 to 1933
Mrs. Annie Besant is elected President. A period of
rapid expansion begins, and the publication of much
momentous literature, which is still in universal demand.
J. Krishnamurti is introduced to the world as a probable
vehicle of the expected World Teacher. The Society is
a dynamic force flowing in many directions, fertilising the
fields of Religion, Education, Freemasonry (admitting women)
and Social Service. A second Occult Centre is established
at Sydney, Australia, with Bishop C. W. Leadbeater in
charge. A third Centre is established in Huizen, Holland,
with Bishop J. 1. Wedgwood in charge. Christianity receives-
special attention in these two Centres. J. Krishnamurti
announces his views and decides not to be connected
with any organisation. These views cause disturbance.
Dr. Besant passes.
5. 1933 to 1937
In 1934 Dr. George Sydney Arundale is elected
President, and, inspired by his emphasis upon “ Straight
Theosophy ” and consolidation, The Society enters upon
a new phase. Bishop C. W. Leadbeater, noted occultist
and rare clairvoyant, passes. Mr. C. Jinarajadasa takes his
place as head of the Esoteric School and of the Sydney
Centre. Dr. Arundale’s keen interest in Youth enlists
its services, which are directed by Shrimati Rukmini
Devi, wife of Dr. Arundale, in the World Federation of
INTRODUCTORY 5
Young Theosophists. She becomes head of the Huizen
Centre.
These are some of the main trends in a fascinating
story, whereinto are woven the activities of man s many-
sided nature. It is a story of great Ideals and of the people
who courageously work out these Ideals—so well expressed
in the now familiar and distinctive Three Objects :
1. To form a nucleus of the Universal Brotherhood
' of Humanity without distinction of race, creed,
sex, caste or colour.
2. To encourage the study of Comparative Religion,
Philosophy and Science.
3. To investigate unexplained laws of Nature and
the powers latent in man.
Through the devoted services of its members, The
Society holds an unchallenged position to-day as a tried and
experienced pioneer in the promotion of the progress of
humanity towards its goal of Universal Brotherhood; the
realisation of the Unity of the Eternal Self in all things ; and
the unfolding of the divine qualities in human nature.
That everyone will agree with my rendering of the
history of The Theosophical Society can scarcely be expect­
ed, but I have endeavoured to be fair and impartial—and
this is not always easy. I would recommend the reader
of this history not to be too concerned with success and
failure as they come and go, but to watch the steady
fulfilment of a purpose no matter what the obstacles. That
purpose burns, an unquenchable beacon, along the pathway
of The Society. It is unquenchable because its flame is fed
from sources which we do not supply, and which none may
extinguish save Those who in Their wisdom lit it so long ago.
I must put on record my appreciation of the encourage­
ment given me in this congenial task by the President,
Dr. G. S. Arundale, at whose request it has been undertaken.
He has generously put at my disposal the archives and
6 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
records of The Society. Mr. C. Jinarajadasa has also given
me access to other necessary and valuable information. To
Mrs. N. Langdon Thomas my thanks are specially due, for,
without her assistance in examining the large mass of avail­
able material, and in doing all the typing, I could not have
completed this History in the time allotted.
J. R.
Adyar, 1938
S P IR IT U A L IS M
E ven the earliest records of man on Earth yield intimations
of the interplay between the physical and other worlds,
especially that which is next and nearest to the physical and
is very simply called “ astral ” in Theosophical literature,
because of the somewhat luminous quality of its atmosphere.
Entities in the astral world can and do communicate in
some fashion with those still living in this world. These
entities may be beneficent or maleficent according to the
nature and intention of the communicants in both worlds.
This inter-communication between the physical world and
another became known in the latter half of the nineteenth
century as “ Spiritualism.”
The vicissitudes of Spiritualism have been many. In
the very far past it was at its best when the “ Gods walked
with men,” for mankind was simple and devoid enough of
“ sin ” to make such intercourse possible. But when man
began to eat of the fruit of the “ tree of knowledge ”, or
experience, for a time the lower side of his nature dominated,
because he lacked discrimination as between the desire that
led to happiness and the desire that led to unhappiness. So
he courted and won intercourse with the lowest in man and
nature, and went to such lengths in old Atlantis, in opposi­
tion to the upholders of all that was good and right, that a
condition, among many, of sheer evil prevailed. So terrible
a condition ensued that a cataclysm became the only cure.
One legacy of those dark days is an uneasy conscience and
a sub-conscious fear of the “ dark ” recesses of our physical
animal ancestry which betrayed the Atlanteans, and which,
if given appropriate stimulus, can still wreck us morally, if
the proper control is lacking.
8 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Hence theurgy, necromancy and all practices which deal
with either “ magical ” acts in order to bring about intercourse
with invisible beings, superior or inferior, or communication
of any sort with the so-called dead, were long dreaded or
forbidden. Only in the very secret sanctuaries of arcane
schools, well-guarded from any misunderstanding by the
profane, were the higher evocations permitted at all. The
lower continued, but were equally well-guarded from the
fury of the frightened masses should they come to know
of such unholy rites. Even quite recently sensitives
and psychics, called “ witches ” and “ wizards,” have been
looked upon with fear and suspicion, and have been harshly
persecuted and punished. Modern mediums, whether good
or bad, have not wholly escaped suspicion, fear, and dislike
of their powers by an unenlightened public.
Since the United States of America has been the prin­
cipal stage upon which has been played the modern drama
of revived interest in and practice of intercommunication
with the other world, a slight sketch of what has taken place
is desirable.
It goes back as far as 1692 when, in Salem Village,
Mass., a typical outburst of the older kind of practice took
place. It began with the accusation by ten young girls that
a West Indian slave and two old women had bewitched
them, A veritable hysteria of supposed obsession spread
and was soon opposed by an equally violent storm of anta­
gonism. In four months hundreds were arrested and tried,
nineteen hanged and one pressed to death for refusing to
plead. The relatives and friends of the victims were also
cruelly persecuted. The general belief was that the N. Ameri­
can Indians were under a compact with the devil to transfer
allegiance from God to himself. In return they received
certain occult powers by means of which they were enabled
to injure their fellow-men, and also to exercise more or less
control over the elements. Certain clergy in the colony incul­
cated the doctrine that the persecution of the unfortunates
SPIRITUALISM 9
would find favour with God, and proportionately distress
and cripple the Evil One. But reaction set in and the
prisoners held on a charge of witchcraft were released.
For a long time afterwards nothing was said to arouse
interest in such phenomena, till the present “ dispensation ”
was ushered in, prefaced all over the world, and especially
in America, by “ signs,” through mediums, of a determined
effort by “ something ” to call the attention of the living to
invisible but active agencies. “ Knockings ” or rappings
became familiar, but no one could make sense of them.
In Rochester, U.S.A., where lived the family of John Fox,
the same poundings and rappings also occurred, specially
round the persons of his three daughters, Kate in particular.
These knockings were regarded as strange, unaccountable,
possibly evil. At last little Kate, eleven years old, rapped
on the head of her bed and said loudly : “ What are you ?
Who are you ? Rap now as many times as I do.” Her raps
were repeated. Experiments were made ; numbers were
specified and repeated without a single failure by the
invisible agents. The K ey was discovered ! There was intelli­
gence behind the persisting noises. This happened in March
1848. This date is regarded as the beginning of “ Modern
Spiritualism,” called also the “ New Dispensation,” and the
“ New Spiritual Dispensation.” Other and more important
phenomena followed. The attention of the civilised world
was drawn to the flood of communications, levitations,
materialisations, rapports, etc., which took place freely in the
U. S. A. and elsewhere.
A story is told that one spirit, answering severe com­
ments on what seemed like childish rapping and bell-ringing,
replied : “ What do you do when you want to enter a house
and find the door locked ? You knock and ring.” The
spirit went on to explain that for half a century they had
been knocking and ringing, trying to attract attention. They
would far rather withdraw from earth, but higher and wiser
spirits wished to call the world’s attention to the actual facts
I
IO A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
of the life beyond the physical. Only some spirits could
thus call attention, others were of too ethereal a nature, and
those who could not do it for themselves could influence for
this purpose earth-bound spirits who were magnetically
chained to the scenes of their earthly misdeeds.
By 1865 Spiritualism had completely captured public
attention in America, Britain and France. The phenomena
produced through the best known mediums stimulated curio­
sity to the highest pitch. A literature began to grow up.
Private circles for investigation multiplied rapidly. The
denunciation of professional mediums only led to greater
interest.
The next group of special importance was the Eddy
family. It is interesting to note that the mother of this
family of mediums was a descendant of one of those
sentenced at Salem in 1692, but was aided to escape.,
Second sight and mediumship ran freely through her family,
also the gift of clairvoyance. She married Zephaniah Eddy, a
man of little education, narrow-minded, intolerant, terribly
bigoted. In fear his wife hid from him her psychic gift.
Very soon it showed in the children and could not be eradi­
cated, despite severe punishments, backed by prayers to drive
out the devil. The neighbours feared and despised the
Eddys, and even at school the children were tormented be­
cause the others were afraid of them. Notwithstanding his
intense aversion from the gifts of his children, Eddy was not
above hiring out some of them to travelling showmen, and
they suffered abominably. They eventually returned to
their home in Chittenden and for two years reluctantly be­
came the centre of world-wide interest in the phenomena
they could neither check nor control. There Col. Olcott
went to examine and report upon the phenomena, and
there H. P. Blavatsky was sent to meet and draw him into
the work with which she had been entrusted.
In order to understand the events that took place in the
period after Madame Blavatsky landed in America and the
SPIRITUALISM lí
preparation in 1874-1875 for the founding of an organization
to carry out a very specialised task, it is necessary to trace
briefly the development of Spiritualism from about the time
of the “ Rochester Knockings ” to the time when H. P. B.
challenged its methods, the abuses that had grown up, and
announced her mission to explain the truth behind the pheno­
mena. It is exceedingly interesting to watch events unfold
which led to the formation of The Theosophical Society and
how, through their interest in Spiritualism, people scattered
throughout the world gradually converged into the final effort
led by H. P. Blavatsky and H. S. Olcott.
For this purpose Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten’s book
Nineteenth Century Miracles (1884) is laid under considerable
tribute, rather than some more modern book, for the reason
that she was for forty years or more a well-known public
medium, lecturer and traveller, in close and intimate first­
hand touch with all that was going on throughout the world
of Spiritualism. The other most considerable source of infor­
mation is H. P. B.’s thirty-two large and valuable SCRAPBOOKS,
which are filled with cuttings from a wide selection of news­
papers and journals from many countries. Mrs. Britten points
out, that “ Modern Spiritualism ” owed its birth to Kate Fox’s
discovery of the meaning of knocks. There had been pheno­
mena of all the familiar kinds, but religion took refuge in its
ignorance of their meaning by declaring them the work of the
devil ; and most scientists, with little or no investigation,
declared such phenomena fraudulent. Mrs. Britten thought
that the reason for the great interest and spread of Spiritualism
in the United States was due to the free and on the whole
sympathetic publicity given to it. A devoted spiritualist
herself she affirmed that :
The philosophy of spiritualism grows out of its facts—for if spirits
are not the authors of the communications received in their names the
whole theory of a hereafter—as demonstrated by Spiritualism—crumbles
into dust and ashes . . . The intercommunion between the two
worlds must be based on the impregnable rock of truth. But psychologi­
cal conditions are subtle and often incomprehensible and should be
approached calmly and considerately.”
12 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
It is not possible to follow Mrs. Britten’s survey in more
than a few countries—Germany, France, Russia, England—
but these provided the main stream of interest and pioneering
experiment.
GERMANY
In Germany, Spiritualism was not encouraged because of
the policy which forbade the investigation of subjects not
fostered by the Government. Despite this restriction,
Dr. Anton Mesmer arose, used the magnet in curing
disease, but soon found that the chief virtue resided in
himself, so he applied magnetic passes with his hands and
thus transferred energy to his patients. The French Academy
of Sciences, to whom he presented his discoveries, scornfully
rejected them, they were outside its own grooves. Denounc­
ed as an imposter and deserted, yet Mesmer opened the
way to the investigation of “ life forces ”, and found new
followers. Problems of “ Obsession ” or “ Demoniacal
Possession ” were next studied ; also the healing of diseases
through prayer. There was also the harrassing of certain
types of individuals by hauntings, knockings, the throwing
about of things (poltergeist), inspirational speech in public,
and the return of those called dead. Came then Baron von
Reichenbach (d. 1869), experimenting with sensitives, and
concluding that from every object—human, animal, vegetable
or mineral—emanated a luminous force which could be
detected. He called it “ Odyle ” or “ Od Force.” He was
met with insult and contempt.
The writings of Kerner, Ennemoser and others on
matters more closely approaching “ Spiritualism ” created
interest, but only in 1865 was it possible to publish the first
journal devoted to Spiritualism. This was followed by the
Leipsic Psychische Studien, 1874, .conducted, by the Hon.
Alexandre Aksakoff, who, owing to the opposition of the
Church, was unable to publish anything in Russia. With him
H. P. B. freely corresponded, and she sent him articles for
SPIRITUALISM 13
publication. Among other contributors to the Psychische
Studien were the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (a cousin of
H. P. B.) and her husband, and Baron Guldenstubbe, one of
her friends, and H. I. H. Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg,
who wrote later on the Reincarnation controversy, which
invaded the ranks of the Spiritualists in Germany. He said
he could positively assert that “ when spirits are high and
advanced the doctrine of reincarnation is taught, and often
sustained by proofs . . . the bad spirits not only speak
against reincarnation, but often deny even the existence
of God.”
An American medium, Dr. Henry Slade, passed through
Germany and gave special courses to the Professors at
Leipsic University, who bore witness to his truthfulness and
absolved him from any fraud. As a result of these courses
Prof. Zöllner published a book—Transcendental Physics. In
it he showed how the phenomena was due to a force,
which he described as “ a fourth dimension in space.” He
challenged the world to account for the phenomena save by
a “ spiritual ” hypothesis, as alleged by the mediums. This
book was translated into English by C. C. Massey, one of
the founders of The Theosophical Society in America, where
he was on a visit at that time, and later the first President of
the British Theosophical Society.
FRANCE
Following Mesmer, the Marquis de Puysegur in France
hit upon mesmeric sleep (or trance), leading to clairvoyance.
Somnambulism was the next word. The Chevalier de
Barberini by mesmeric passes and will power induced trance
and ecstacy. His patients or “ lucids ” had visions, and
described the apparitions of the dead. These “ fanatics
were called Spiritualists.” Another of the early followers
of Mesmer was Baron Jules D. Dupotet who went deeply
into the subject of magnetic force. His psychological
researches, witnessed by men of science, were recorded in
14 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
the Journal de Magnetisme and revealed how varied were the
phenomena displayed through his magnetised subjects. He
challenged the world to account for them save as spiritual
appearances. In 1880 he became an honorary member of
The Theosophical Society and was made a Vice-President,
it was a great friend of his, a mesmerist, Henri Evette, who
was so struck with the powers of H. P. B., when a young
woman, that he wished to make her a medium under his
direction. Evette became a member in 1884 of the early
Theosophical group in Paris. In France, from about 1856,
two men exercised special influence in directing public atten­
tion to Spiritualism. One was Allan Kardec and the other
Prof. Z. T. Pierart. The former edited La Revue Spirile, the
latter La Revue Spiritualiste.
The Spiritists, following Kardec, advocated Reincarnation.
His theory was that man has but two principles—spirit (or
soul) and body and that between these two there is the peri-
spirit, which after the death of the body can and does com­
municate, and that the soul, for the sake of experience, sought
incarnation not once but many times. With this theory of
man’s constitution H. P. B. never agreed. She was already
conversant with the more scientific Eastern theory of the
sevenfold principles of man and the development of each and
all that constantly takes place. The Spiritualists taught that
the soul of man undergoes but one mortal birth, and continues
its progress through eternity in spiritual states.
Kardec’s proper name was Hippolite L. D. Rivail ; but
he preferred to be known by the names he said he had
borne in two previous lives—Allan and Kardec. As a
result of seances he attended, he published The Spirits
Book, which has become a classic and a text-book among
his followers. There was but little Spiritualistic literature in
France when Kardec issued his journal La Revue Spirite,
but by 1864 ten others appeared, all following the Kardec
school. The doctrine of Reincarnation was vigorously de­
bated, and indisputable proof of it demanded. M. Pierart’s
SPIRITUALISM 15
magazine reported the American psychological phenomena,
and carried on despite all clerical and Jesuit opposition, sub­
stituting a new journal when the first was suppressed. These
two main groups became somewhat too settled in their
opinions, so that by 1880 H. P. B. exclaimed of the Kardec
group—“ The Kardecists, a sect of infallible and inviolable
doctrines.” When Kardec died his work was carried on by
his devoted followers, M. and Mme. Leymarie, who were
friends of H. P. B., and whom she warmly defended when
his opponents succeeded in having Leymarie imprisoned for
a time.
By 1883 other groups had formed and other journals
were in existence, particularly the Bulletin, edited by M. Ch.
Fauvety, President of La Société Théosophique d’Orient et
d’Occident, Paris. In this Bulletin H. P. B. conducted with
M. Tremeschini a considerable controversy on Theosophic
Occultism and Spiritism, corresponding also with Comman­
dant Courmes (1880) * 1and M. A. Bilière (1880).* The Theo­
sophic groups then in existence were : (1) The Theosophical
Society of the East and West (1882) ; President, Duchesse
de Pomar (Lady Caithness) : (1884) Vice-President,
M. Thurmann ; * Secretary, Mme E. de Morsier, (1884)*
and twenty-seven others, including Dr. Chas. Richet,* Edou­
ard Schuré,* and Louis Dramard. " (2) La Société Scientifique
des Occultistes de France (1882) : In this group were twenty-
one people, among them a great physician and student of
Hermetic Philosophy, Dr. Fortin,* President, and Mme For­
tin.* (3) La Société Théosophique des Spirites de France
(1880). Here we find M. and Mme Leymarie* (the earliest
members of the T. S. in France), M. and Mme Camille
Flammarion,* A. Biliére,* Commandant D. A. Courmes,*
Henri Evette,* and M. Tremeschini.* All these Groups were
duly chartered by Col. Olcott, and later, out of them, after
various changes, grew the French Section of The Theosophi­
cal Society.
1Names marked with an asterisk signify they were or became F.T.S,
16 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
RUSSIA
Spiritualism as a doctrine was introduced into Russia in
1854 by those who had witnessed phenomena abroad and
studied the works of Allan Kardec. D. D. Home,1 the
medium, visited St Petersburg in 1871. He gave demon­
strations in the Imperial Palace, where was a keen interest in
Spiritualism. This was strengthened by Home’s marriage
to a relative of the Hon. Alexandre Aksakoff. But there was
no freedom in the Press. The State Church did not allow
anything to be published on the subject—exile to Siberia
was for those who did. When Prof. N. A. Wagner went
to St. Petersburg, it was with difficulty that he obtained
permission to lecture on “ Animal Magnetism ”, as such
a title approached a subject which had been condemned
alike by clerical and scientific authorities, the former attri­
buting all psychic phenomena outside the Church to Satan,
and the latter to physiological disturbance which could be
rectified by orthodox medical attention.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakoff was the “ pioneer
Spiritualist of Russia.” He was of the ancient nobility,
educated in the Imperial Lyceum, a tutor to the Czarewitcn,
a member of the Imperial University, and Councillor of State
in the Imperial Chancellery. The Psychische Sludien, which
he founded, he was forced to publish in Germany. He
invited scientific men from the University of St. Petersburg
to witness some phenomena, but they feared to do so. In
1880, however, a few took courage and formed a Society for
the study of psychic science. The Government would
have granted their application, but the Church interposed
on the ground that no science was wanted to prove the
power of Satan, and the Church needed no help in pro­
claiming the immortality of the soul. Aksakoff was not a
Kardecist, but concerned himself with experiments in medium-
ship and physical manifestations. H. P. B. was of course
1Whom H.P.B. never met, although there have been many assertions
that she learned of Spiritualism from him. Scrapbook, /•
SPIRITUALISM 17
well known as an author in Russia under her pen-name of
“ Râdhâ Bâi ”, and her fortunes were followed with close in­
terest, for her family was famous in the literary world as well
as in Russian history and society. She had already translated
for Aksakoffs journal Col. Olcott’s Chittenden letters and
his People from the Other World.
Another student of Spiritualism in Russia, and an old
friend of H. P. B.’s family, was Prince Emil de Sayn Wittgen­
stein 1 (F. T. S.), cousin of the Empress and aide-de-camp to
the Emperor, whose confidence he enjoyed. He assisted the
Emperor to acquire a most complete library of Spiritualist
books. In 1870 Aksakoff formed a circle among his friends
and relatives, and convinced A. Boutlerof, Professor of
Chemistry, and also the University, of the reality of the pheno­
mena. D. D. Home’s visit in 1871 furnished further proof.
Aksakoff translated Prof. Crookes’ experiences from the
Quarterly Journal of Science, and was allowed to publish the
first book on Spiritualism and Science.
In 1874 came the French medium, Brédif, and so
convinced was Prof. Wagner that he opened the campaign
for Spiritualism in the best Russian journal, Revue de
l'Europe. The Press took offence. The University also ; and
thereupon- impelled the Société Physique to investigate the
phenomena and assigned the most eminent professors to the
duty. This was the first-known scientific committee formed
for such a purpose, and it was arranged they were to hold
forty séances. When Aksakoff wrote to H. P. B. for help,
he mentioned that it would interest her to know that Prince
A. Dolgorouky, of her own family, the great authority on
Mesmerism, had told him that the spirits which played the
most prominent part at séances were elementaries, gnomes,
etc. His clairvoyants had seen them and described them as
1Wrote to The Spiritualist, 1878, describing how he was shielded from
danger, during the war with Turkey by one of the “ leading Brethren of
the Society.” H. P. B. commenting on this letter, said of the Master M.,
“ our Guru wrote personally to the Prince.” See The Theosophist, March,
1883, p. 142.
2
18 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
such. Aksakoff asked her to select a thoroughly reliable and
competent medium, one who could sit in the light so that the
movement of solid bodies without contact could be easily
observed. H. P. B. and Col. Olcott finally selected Dr.
Henry Slade, after thoroughly testing him. He delayed on
the way in England, where antagonism to his exhibitions
finally took the shape of a prosecution led by the scientist,
Dr. (Sir) Ray Lankester on a charge of “ vagrancy ” and
obtaining money by “ subtle means and devices.” He was
defended by C. C. Massey, “ who saved him on a technical
point, on appeal.” By the time he reached St. Petersburg
the Committee had ceased to exist. There had been delibe­
rate effort made by two or three scientists to nullify the whole
arrangements, as they were determined to argue and convince
others that such phenomena were all charlatanry and not
worthy of serious investigation.
In 1882 a small magazine was started, really in the in­
terests of Spiritualism, but it had to deal with the subject very
circumspectly. It was called the Rebus, and H. P. B. wrote
for it. The interdict against Spiritualism was by this time so
far removed as to allow the publication of some of Karaec’s
work. It was H. P. B.’s aunt, the Hon. N. A. Fadeef, who
gathered together some of those Spiritualists and others whose
interest had been aroused in Theosophy, and formed a Lodge
in the early 80’s. But the interest could not develop readily
—there was still too much opposition. It was about twenty-
five years later that The Theosophical Society really started,
only to be driven out afterwards to exist as The Theosophical
Society outside Russia.
ENGLAND
From 1812 onwards there had been the persistent evi­
dence of the “ other world ” through rappings, bell-ringing and
so on, much suspected as being evil. There had been well-
known hauntings, and books appeared describing them, Mrs.
Crowe’s Night Side o f Nature being one of the best known.
SPIRITUALISM 19
There were the happenings at Epworth Parsonage in the
family of John Wesley. Also the Irvingites of the Pentecostal
tongues, in whose congregations healing occurred ; but it
was not long before all this was considered Satanic, and
Irving was tried and had to withdraw. In 1851 a Club was
started in Cambridge by distinguished members of the Uni­
versity, to collect and examine evidence of the supernatural.
It was popularly known as “ The Ghost Club.” Robert
Dale Owen wrote of this Club in his Footfalls on the Boun­
dary o f Another World. Its full title was “ The Cambridge
University Society for Psychological Investigation.”
Soon after the “ Rochester Knockings,” American
mediums began to demonstrate in England, as elsewhere, the
system of rappings to communicate with “ spirits ” and also
produced manifestations, and were hailed with much delight.
But there was also great antagonism. Nevertheless, many
serious investigators were anxious to experiment. The great­
est impression was made by D. D. Home. Scottish by
birth, he was brought up in America and his mediumistic
•career was quite an epoch in the history of Spiritualism in
Europe. He went to England in 1855, at the age of 22. He
did not practise professionally, rarely sat in dark circles,
refused to submit to tests, refused contacts with tables, etc.
His most striking phenomenon in London was the passing
horizontally of his body out of a window in one room, 60 feet
above the ground, and in at another window in the next
room. This was borne witness to by H. D. Jencken (who
married Kate Fox), Lord Lindsay and others. Prof. Crookes,
the great scientist, industriously pursued researches into
Spiritualism and was supported by other eminent men and
women. Among them were those who afterwards played
their part in The Theosophical Society—Lady Caithness (after­
wards Duchesse de Pomar), Prof. A. R. Wallace, the great
naturalist, the Master of Lindsay, the Earl of Crauford
and Balcarres, F. R. S., President of the Royal Astrono­
mical Society, Dr. George Wyld, Prof. Wm. Crookes,
20 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
C. C. Massey, writer and barrister-at-law. Other mediums
continued to come from America and there were professional
mediums in Britain, including the celebrated Florence
Cook, whose ‘ spirit guide’ was “ Katie King,” daughter
of “ John King.”
In 1865 Mrs. Hardinge Britten decided to return to live in
England and instead of retiring found herself the centre of
activity. Her talks drew many, for her specialty was inspira­
tional speaking. Gradually interest grew and in the same
year an association was formed called “ The Association of
Progressive Spiritualists in Great Britain.” Its object was to
further the interests and principles of Spiritualism, “ this
Divine philosophy.” They tried to have the Royal Society
discus» Spiritualism, but Prof. Tyndall and some of his
confreres scornfully rejected all attempts to bring any such
matters before their august body, for they thought that what
the Society did not already know could not exist or was not
worth knowing.
In 1869 a group of distinguished literary people formed
“ The Dialectical Society,” with the determination to investi­
gate modern Spiritualism. In the list of those who carried on
the investigation we find the names Mrs. Hardinge (Britten),
H. D. Jencken, M. R. I., Benjamin Coleman, Prof. Crom­
well F. Varley, D. D. Home, Signor Damiani, Lord Lindsay,
and among their correspondents were George H. Lewes, Lord
Lytton, Robert Chambers, Edwin Arnold, T. A. Trollope,
Leon Favre, the Countess of Caithness, Camille Flammarion.
Antagonistic papers were received from Professors Huxley
and Tyndall, Charles Bradlaugh and others. The result
of the enquiry was to declare that the phenomena they
witnessed were sufficient “ to establish the fact of an
unknown and supersensuous and intelligent power com­
municating with mortals both by physical and intellectual
modes . .
By 1873 it was resolved to form a national organization
in Great Britian—the “ British National Association of
SPIRITUALISM 21
Spiritualists.” Among the Vice-Presidents were E. Dawson
Rogers, C. C. M assey1 and George Wyld, M. D.:,: Miss
Emily Kislingbury* was Secretary. Among the Honorary or
Corresponding members were Prince Emil de Sayn Wittgen­
stein'- (Russia), the Baron and Baroness von Vay ; (Austria)
Baroness Guldenstubbe (Paris), the Hon. Alexandre Aksa-
koff* (Russia), Babu Peary Chand Mitra:,: (India, and first
President of the Bengal Theosophical Society, 1882), W. H.
Terry'* (early member of The Theosophical Society in
Australia), M. Leymarie:,: (Paris), Epes Sargent (in America,
wrote also for the Spirilual Scientist), Henry T. Child (U.S.A.,
exposed by H.P.B.), G. L. Ditson:,: (U.S.A. a cosmopolitan,
a friend of H.P.B. and knew her family. He too wrote for
the Spiritual Scientist), Prof. A. R. Wallace*, Signor Damiani
(Italy, a friend of H.P.B.), A. J. Riko (Holland, a Spiritualist
since 1858, and in correspondence with Col. Olcott).
In 1882 the B.N.A.S. changed its name to “ The Central
Association of Spiritualists Prof. (Sir) W. F. Barratt invited
and held Conferences which resulted in the formation of a
“ Society for Psychical Research.” This Society was the
afterwards ungenerous antagonist of H.P.B. Its aim was
to approach the enquiry into Spiritualism solely from a
scientific standpoint ; while the Central Association stood for
a belief in spirit communion and the propagation of Spiritual­
ism. Membership in the S.P.R. did not imply “ the accept­
ance of any particular explanation of the phenomena in­
vestigated, nor any belief as to the operation, in the physical
world, of forces other than those recognised by Physical
Science.” Six Committees were formed and at the head of
that on Mesmerism was Dr. G. Wyld. The President was
Henry Sidgwick, Trinity College, Cambridge, whose heart­
less condemnation of H.P.B. stains his own name. Among
the Vice-Presidents were : the Rev. Stainton Moses* Arthur
J. Balfour, M.P. On the Council were Charles C. Massey*,
1Those marked with an asterisk became members of The Theosophi­
cal Society.
22 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
F. W. H. Myers ",1 W. G. Wyld, M. D.* Others on the list
may also have been later F.T.S.
Mrs. Britten pointed out that the simultaneity of spirit­
ualistic events throughout the world made it clear that they
must have all developed from one powerful centre. Seemingly
her intuition was right. In any case there are many activities
sponsored or initiated by the Great White Brotherhood.'
One such activity, though not directly connected with it,
is that located in Yucatan, Mexico. The head of this
Yucatan Lodge is a great Chieftan. The members are of
the Fourth Race, part of which flourished so greatly when
America was still Atlantis, and who continue to use Fourth
Race methods of occult progress. The bulk of humanity is
still Fourth Race, and this Occult brotherhood of Yucatan
looks after them. Their methods now, as in the past, are
through what is called “ the lower psychism,” that is, through
phenomena connected with the physical plane, and tangible,
so that physical plane proof might be afforded of the reality
of hidden worlds. The results of that method tended to
materialise religion. People sought to prove the spiritual
by the material . . . The Fifth Race had to pass
through the intellect to the higher intuition, the “ higher psy­
chism.” When it was seen that the Fifth Race was drifting
into materialism in the scientific world, and that knowledge
was progressing much faster than the social conscience and
moral evolution, it was thought necessary to start a move­
ment which would appeal to those who were materialistically
minded and afford them some tangible poof on the physical
plane of the reality of the superphysical, of the unseen, to
prevent the spread of materialistic science. Hence the
“ Spiritualistic " Movement.
The Yucatan Brotherhood guided this rescue movement;
and H.P.B., because of her great gifts, was entrusted with
1Those marked with an asterisk were or had been members of The
Theosophical Society.
2 What follows is summarised mainly from Dr. Besant’s, Talks with a
Class, and C. W. Leadbeater’s The Astral Plane.
SPIRITUALISM 23
the task of guarding it against the degrading practices of
unscrupulous mediums, and keeping it valuable to educated
and cultured minds. We have seen how it did appeal to
scientists and thinkers, until the over-materialistic S. P. R.
struck so fatal a blow at the valiant flag-bearer, by
ignorantly classing her with vulgar tricksters.
The centre of Spiritualism, then, was in the United
States, from which country the majority of mediums went
all over the world. In early 1875 the progress made by
Spiritualism was astonishing. Several of the big news­
papers in New York were freely devoting their columns
to reports from such able investigators as Col. Olcott and
others. Noted Spiritualists were moulding opinion and set­
ting up specialised schools of Spiritualism, which found
adherents everywhere. Men and women of education,
culture, position and authority, in almost every country,
followed with keenest interest the remarkable manifesta­
tions that were taking place. Interest was mainly directed
to phenomena. One group sought through the reality of
the phenomena a high moral explanation, a means of com­
munication between heaven and earth, a new science, a
new happiness, a belief in the purity of the “ Spirits ” and
that it was all of God. To Mrs. Britten and to others
Spiritualism was a real “ New Dispensation,” a new religion.
Aksakoff said : “ One thing I regard as incontestable,
that if the mystery which shrouds the human soul was ever
penetrated, and the fact of individual immortality admitted
by science, it must be by the study of the phenomena of
spiritualism.” To yet others it was a subject for careful
scientific exploration. Despite the interest and the flood of
literature, there was however no particular organised investi­
gation, no philosophy about it was shaping. There was
much testing of mediums by sceptics, without adding to
belief. Mediums were often genuine, but many were
fraudulent, and lived by trickery and worse upon a gulli­
ble public. It was so exceedingly difficult to detect the
24 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
false from the true that for some the whole thing seemed
nothing but trickery. Also, a storm was threatening
to break.
From about 1850 what was known as “ Free-love ”
began and finally spread in a flood of licentious doc­
trine, illustrated by life and conduct. A certain number
of prominent Spiritualists took part in this development.
The worst of them stood for “ social freedom and the abro­
gation of the marriage laws.” A few lawless persons led
the movement, seeking notoriety at any cost. Some, it was
known, were in the pay of certain clergy anxious to
destroy the credit of even the best type of Spiritualism, and
the most odious doctrines were universally preferred without
discrimination against the entire rank and file of Spiritualists.
The best of them fought against this with energy and ability.
The pernicious effects of the consorting of careless mediums
with depraved spirits were shown in many ways—especially
in the supremacy over the mediums and their patrons which
animal instinct was suffered to acquire. Too many cases
were brought forward to permit of doubt, and weird and
unholy sects arose. Free-love was openly advocated from
the platform by some mediums before crowded audiences.
Men and women basely claimed their readiness to give their
bodies to anyone they chose—their spirit-wives or spirit
husbands, and clergymen even boasted of the number of
their spirit-wives whom they recognised in the persons of the
women of their congregations. It was all speciously disguised
as a new form of social freedom, and its followers went under
the name of “ Radicals ” and “ Free Platform Spiritualists.”
It was inevitable that the whole Spiritualistic movement
seemed, in the eyes of decent people, to be tainted. It looked
perilously like the story of Atlantis over again, though in much
milder measure. No wonder the Master K. H. said of this
kind of Spiritualism :
“ We feel that the time is approaching, and that we are bound to
choose between the triumph of Truth or the Reign of Error and—Terror.
SPIRITUALISM 25
We have to let in a few chosen ones into the great secret,—or allow the
infamous Shammars to lead Europe’s best minds into the most insane and
fatal of superstitions—Spiritualism.” 1
The Masters were strongly opposed to this reckless
mediumship, because it brought a series of untold evils for
the new Ego to be born under the nefarious shadow of the
vehicle reinforced by the conditions of materializations at
seances.'
Into this maelstrom H. P. B. was plunged. Her ridicule
of Dr. Beard for his ignorant attack upon the Eddys ; her
exposure of Dr. Child and the Holmes ; the trenchant, con­
vincing arguments in her articles on the nature of the agency
directing mediumistic phenomena, and the very different
agency directing “ true spiritualism ” ; her revelation that
there is an age-old secret wisdom, taught by the Sages in
symbol and metaphor, and still in the charge of the Wise who
exact preparation, dedication and self-sacrifice on the part of
the would-be neophyte seeking to enter Their Brotherhood
where is cherished the Ancient Ever-living Truth—all this
left H. P. B. in the centre of the stage. She found herself
surrounded also with the difficulties of “ infidelity, doubt and
blindness.” But the saving of the situation lay with her,
whatever it might cost. She fervently denied that she was a
medium, for she was not subject to the whims or will of
“ spirits.” At the same time she courageously claimed that
she could produce phenomena at will. And she did. No
one else in the world dared to make such a claim. She
justified it. She paid heavily for it.
For the sake of the world H. P. B. was to try “ to stop
necromancy and the unconscious black magic exercised by
Spiritualists,”—to uphold instead “ spiritual spiritualism ” and
gradually to bring forward the truths of Occultism, and to
convince the world of the “ actual existence of Eastern
Adepts in Occult Sciences.” Leadership was hers, and she
1Mahatma Letters, 284.
- Ibid., 113.
26 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
worked with passionate earnestness to lead aright, In 1875
she wrote to Aksakoff, “ I have entirely devoted myself to
Spiritualism. Not to the phenomenal material side of it, but
to Spiritual Spiritualism, and the propaganda of its sacred
truths. All my efforts tend to one thing, to purify the new
religion from all filthy weeds . . .” It seemed a forlorn
hope, but she had courage. Many failures had still to be
faced. H.P.B. was prepared to face them. It was for her to’
make the next move.
H E L E N A P E T B O V N A B L A V A T S K Y
H elena P etrovna H ahn was born prematurely at the
midnight hour between 30 and 31 July (12 August, Russian
Calendar) 1831, at Ekaterinoslav, in the province of the same
name. The strange and untoward incidents accompanying
her birth and baptism caused the superstitious Russian
retainers and servants to forbode for her a life of vicissitudes
and trouble. Because of these apprehensions she was
greatly spoilt, and her only authority was her own will.
Helena (called also Hélène, Heliona, Ileana and Helen)
came, on her mothor’s side, from the princely ruling
Dolgoroukis, of whom her grandmother, Princess Elena
(Hélène) Pavlovna Dolgorouki, who married André Mikae-
lovitch Fadéef, was ths last direct representative. On her
father’s side she was descended from the ruling Princes of
Mecklenburg, the Rotternstern Hahns, some of whom had
been naturalised Russians for 300 years. The Hahn family
was descended from a famous German Crusader, a Count
Rottenstern, who added Hahn, a cock, to his name because
the crowing of a cock near to his tent in the Holy Land
saved him from assassination at the hands of a Saracen.
In after years when Col. Olcott asked why permanent
control was not put upon Madame Blavatsky’s fiery temper,
a Master explained to him that such a course would lead to
death from apoplexy. The body was vitalised by a fiery and
imperious spirit which from childhood had brooked no
restraint, and if vent were not given for the excessive
corporeal energy the result must be fatal. He was told to
look into the history of the Dolgoroukis to understand what
was meant.
28 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
The Dolgoroukis were direct descendants from Rurik,
the first to govern a large part of the country which came to
be called Russia. The ‘ Russ ’ were Northmen, Scandi­
navians, roving tradesmen, seeking profit and power, and
also warriors and chiefs desiring to rule. From among them
the Slavs of Novgorod invited Rurik, 862 A.D., and his two
brothers to help end their feuds. Thus started the political
history of Russia. The two brothers disappeared, but Rurik
consolidated his authority and built up in Novgorod the first
civil government and a wealthy trading market for East and
West. Rurik, the first Kniaz, or Prince, ruled for fifteen years.
During that time his son Igor and his nephew Oleg conquered
much territory south and west. Igor made Kief a great
centre. His fierce, courteous warrior son Sviatoslov, 957,
made his three sons, of different mothers, the first Princes
in Russia. The Principality of Kief carried with it the so­
vereignty of Russia. One, Vladimir, (d. 1015) powerful, of
limitless activity, a pagan, realised that a consolidating religion
was necessary, and chose Christianity because of the magni­
ficence and beauty of the Greek churches and services. He
was baptized and his whole army, and gradually the people.
Yaroslav the Wise, his son, (d. 1054) framed the first code
of laws, the Russian Pravda, or Right. His three sons
married Greek, Polish and German Princesses, and his three
daughters the Kings of Norway, France and Hungary.
In Hints on Esoteric Theosophy,' it is said that H. P. B.
possessed “ in some degree as an inheritance from an adept
ancestor, the special capacity requisite for great success in
occult studies.” This was apparently Vseslav (disappeared
about 1095), son of Yaroslav’s elder brother. His claims to
sovereignty had been overlooked and he strove all his life to
be recognised, but failed. The people believed him born of
enchantment and feared him. He was credited with powers
of disappearance, and incredible swiftness of movement. Be'
-cause of the strange system of each member of the family
1By A. O. Hume, p. 73.
HELENA PETROVNA BLAVATSKY 29
moving in turn nearer to the Kief headship when it became
vacant, quarrels, hatreds and murders of those in the way never
ceased. Vladimir II, Monomachos (11 13-25) had eight sons,
the sixth of whom Yuri (George) was called Dolgorouki
(long-handed or grasping). He founded Moscow, and from
him descended all the Grand Dukes in Russia, the powerful
northern line of Princes so famous in history.
In 1224 the Mongol hordes over-ran Russia, conquering
and destroying all they could reach. No one could live who
did not bow down to them, the “ Golden Horde.” All
Princes had to appear yearly with tribute before the Khan,
and receive investiture from him. For two hundred years
this lasted till Ivan III (d. 1533), a Dolgorouki, refused
the tribute, 1480, and threw off the Mongol yoke. The
arrogant Golden Horde broke up, and over its remnants
at Astrakhan H. P. B.’s grandfather was Governor. Ivan
III united all Russia and thought the title of Grand
Duke was not sufficient. Ivan IV, the Terrible, on attaining
his majority at 17 years of age, demanded to be crowned
with the title of Tsar (Caesar). He drew all authority to
himself. His son Fedor being unfit to rule, Boris Goudenoff,
the regent, developed this authority into compulsory service
for the aristocrats and serfdom for the people. With Fedor
died out, 1598, the long Dolgorouki dynasty. Then the
Romanoffs were called in, a “ younger ” branch, as Michael
Romanoff was a grandson of Ivan IV. Even so, we find
the Dolgoroukis influential and controlling counsellors
and advisors in the Courts of the succeeding Tsars. A
Dolgorouki Princess was betrothed to Peter II, but he died
before the marriage.
From this brief indication of H. P. B.’s ancestry it will
be understood why she was so well known, not only in
Russia but throughout Europe, and why she was so anxious
not to implicate her family in any of her own actions ; though
for herself she was a rebel against public opinion and the
conventions of society. At eleven years of age Helena’s
30 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
mother died. She had feared her exceptional daughter’s life
would be full of suffering. Helena, her sister Vera and her
brother Leonid, went to live with their grandparents Fadeef at
Saratov, where their grandfather was Civil Governor. They
lived in an immense old mansion, where the long lofty halls
were hung with portraits of Dolgoroukis and Fadeefs. There
were gloomy caverns underground, haunted by the ghosts of
serfs beaten to death by the previous owner’s tyrannous
steward. Alone of the children, Helena dared take refuge
in these dark regions when she wished to avoid lessons, and
only a corps of strong-bodied servant men could fetch her
out by force. She declared she was never alone ; always
there were invisible companions with whom she played and
talked. Sometimes she took refuge in a large-criminal-in­
fested forest near by. The only one who could really control
the wilful small Helena was her grandmother Dolgorouki,
herself a remarkable character. She was a woman of great
erudition, an archaeologist and geologist of note. She was
well known for her work on natural history, archaeology
and numismatics, twenty volumes of which were preserved
in the University of Petrograd, and she corresponded with
savants. When she died her collection of antiquities, relics,
minerals and articles of vertu was so great that it was sub­
sequently presented to the Government.1 In the apartments
of H. P. B.’s favourite aunt Mile N. A. Fadeef, was a re­
markable private museum and a rare and precious library.
All these collections were H.P.B.’s delight and she could put
herself in psychic touch with the various objects, stuffed
animals and birds, skulls, fossils, shells and skeletons, and
describe their long past history.
Fairy tales and old legends, told to her by the servants,
were Helena’s special delight, while she avoided as far as
she could the dry lessons of the governesses, though she
1G. L. Ditson in Banner o f Light, Nov. ¡875—Scrapbook, L Ditson
stayed at the house of H. P. B.’s sister in Circassia in 1868, and knew
all her history and antecedents. Scrapbook, XIX (2), p. 118.
HELENA PETROVNA BLAVATSKY 31
had brilliant abilities, and learned languages with ease. In
later life she knew at least eight languages and as many
dialects. She had also considerable musical talent, which
her father encouraged. Again and again her recklessness
led Helena into physical danger, and always there was One
whom she saw, though not physically, who rescued or pro­
tected her and whom she knew to be her Guardian. She
was in contact, not only with the physical world, but also
with the elemental denizens of another, and with those
human beings who are called “ dead,” but who are actively
interested in the physical world and wish to communicate
with it. Such capacity is called “ mediumship.” At first
she could not control these conditions, but gradually she
mastered them, especially when she came under the direction
of the Great White Brotherhood, whose willing and devoted
servant she became. Her family was well aware of her
extraordinary gifts, and that wherever she was phenomena
occurred.
All too soon the question of marriage loomed for Helena
Hahn. There are several accounts as to why she married,
in 1848, the elderly General Nicephore V. Blavatsky, Vice-
Governor of the Province of Erivan. General Blavatsk}'^
ancestors were derived also from the early Russ adventurers,
who settled in S. E. Russia, the Ukraine, and probably in­
termixed with the Tartars. His family came of the “ Hetman
Blavatko ” or chiefs, an essentially military society. The
General took Helena to a summer retreat in Erivan. She
tried to escape on the way but failed, and for three months
lived there in misery, for she would concede nothing.
At last she managed to escape to her family, who sent her
to her father. She feared he would want her to return to
her husband, so she escaped again, in disguise. Then began
years of wandering and adventure.
During her travels Helena Petrovna Blavatsky (H.P.B.)
kept in touch with her father, who realised that his unusual
daughter must go her own way. Pie kept her supplied with
32 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
funds, though she was often in want, for she was careless of
money. General Blavatsky himself endeavoured to obtain
a formal divorce, but Russian laws were strict. It was
necessary for H. P. B. to spend ten years out of the country
to make the separation legal.
H. P. B. was emphatic that prior to the formation of
The Theosophical Society her private life concerned no one
but herself, and she only reluctantly gave any details about
it. There is much to be learned of it however, scattered
throughout a number of books and records. It is impossible
here, for want of space, to give details of her many journeys
all over the world in search of occult knowledge, during
which she found her way to the ashramas (retreats) of her
Master and other members of the Great Brotherhood in the
Himalayas, where she garnered the priceless knowledge with
which she afterwards enriched the world’s literature. She
acquired a profound knowledge of the philosophy and
esotericism of Tibetan Buddhism, which shows in her
writings.
On the physical plane H. P. B. met her Master and
Guardian first in 1851 in London, and more frequently later.
She so oriented herself to His thought in true disciple-
fashion that she was sensitive to His every hint or direction.
Under His guidance she passed from strength to strength in
her power to control many unusual forces, by means of which
she produced the phenomena which caused so much scepti­
cism, alarm, opposition and shock to a materialistic and
conventional world.
In the section of this History entitled “ Preparation,”
are traced her efforts and her success in bringing into being an
organisation to combat the prevailing lack in the West of a
profound and searching understanding of life such as existed
already in the East, and to make it accessible to the many
instead of only to a few scholars, most of whom seemed to
have little insight into the meaning of the riches they
handled.
HELENA PETROVNA BLAVATSKY 33
H. P. B. entered the Spiritualistic movement to explain
its phenomena, to expose its frauds, to enlarge its spiritual
scope, and to give to it the dignity in the world of science
which was its due. But scientists mostly decided not to
follow the road of investigation along which she led—it was
too thorny, too uncharted. It was easier to leave it alone
and declare her mistaken. There is no need here to recite
the number of phenomena with which she enticed eager,
adventurous minds to explore and know for themselves the
deeper laws of life. There is such a mass of these pheno­
mena that the mere bulk of them is impressive and cannot
lightly be dismissed. They await the patient investigator
who will sift, weigh and present them with judgment and
acumen.
About the time that H. P. B. was instrumental in
establishing The Theosophical Society her appearance was
often mentioned in newspapers and elsewhere. She was
described as being of average height, sharing the family
plumpness which turned to corpulency as she grew older,
and which was aggravated by her sedentary life. She had
a massive face, often described as Kalmuck, though she had
no Mongol blood, which suggested power and culture, “ a
rare countenance,” and over her features a combination of
moods seemed constantly to play. Her hair was light
brown, thick, very wavy, silken soft and drawn back from
her face. Her brilliant penetrating blue-grey eyes were
characteristic of her race, as was her self-possession and her
air of command. Her beautiful arms and hands were
regarded as ideal models for a sculptor. She dressed usually
in a loose robe, which suited her, and despite all excentrici-
ties of appearance, she impressed all who met her with a
sense of her dignity and imperiousness.
H. P. B. with all these gifts seemed indeed the right
person to undertake the great task entrusted to her. Much
has been written of her dual personality, and into that again
it is not possible to go here. There was undoubtedly a
3
34 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
great personage behind the personality, and that personage
came and went according to need ; one whose wisdom was
far greater than could be given to the unready, one whose
knowledge was at times forbidden expression lest it cause
trouble through misunderstanding ; but one whose courage
and trustworthiness privileged her to be a Messenger of
Truth from the Great White Brotherhood to the world at
large.
In 1881, when the septenary “ term of trial” of The
Society drew near, the Master M. wrote of Madame
Blavatsky and Col. Olcott :
“ One or two of us hoped that the world had so far
advanced intellectually, if not intuitionally, that the Occult
doctrine might gain intellectual acceptance, and the impulse
given for a new cycle of occult research. Others—wiser as
it would now seem—held differently, but consent was given
for the trial. It was stipulated, however, that the experiment
should be made independently of our personal management ;
that there should be no abnormal interference by ourselves.
So casting about we found in America, the man to stand as
leader—a man of great moral courage, unselfish, and having
other good qualities. He was far from being the best,,
but . . . he was the best one available. With him we
associated a woman of most exceptional and wonderful
endowments. Combined with them she had strong personal
defects, but just as she was, there was no second to her
living fit for this work. We sent her to America, brought
them together—and the trial began. From the first both she
and he were given to clearly understand that the issue lay
entirely with themselves. And both offered themselves for
the trial for certain remuneration in the far distant future as—
as K. H. would say—soldiers volunteer for a Forlorn Hope.” 1
1Mahatma Letters, p. 263.
H E N R Y S T E E L O LC O TT
Urged by a friend “ to let my Biography be written
. . . I told him I considered such things trash,
seeing how men are lost sight of in the progress
of the race. Ephemera ! ” 1
H enry Steel Olcott, President-Founder of The Theo-
sophical Society was born at Orange, New Jersey, 2 August,
1832. His ancestry was English Puritan, and of the same
family as Dr. John Alcocke, who, in the reign of Henry VII,
became Bishop of Ely and in 1496 founded Jesus College,
Cambridge, over the entrance of which is to be seen his coat
of arms of three cock’s heads with other symbols. As
Madame Blavatsky's family has the same heraldic crest,
Col. Olcott placed a bas-relief over the door of the Western
Library, Adyar, combining the two, placing the standing cock
of the Hahns in the centre and the three heads, of the Al-
cockes, in triangle form, around it. The name Alcocke
gradually changed into several forms, one of which was
Olcott. One of the family, Thomas Olcott (Alcott) migrated
to America and settled first at Hartford, Conn., and then at
Cambridge, Mass., 1635, and helped to form a new Colony.
There is not much trace of Henry Olcott’s early educa­
tion, but the later stages were continued at the University of
New York, with emphasis on the scientific side of agriculture.
A crash in his father’s business compelled him in 1851 to
seek work elsewhere. A friend advised him to try Cleve­
land, O. There he fell into despondency over his position.
He was advised to go to Elyria, O., where he worked a
1Col. Olcott's Diary, July 1891.
36 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
50-acre farm on a share basis for two years. He was already
attracted to the study of Hypnotism and Mesmerism and
had read Prof. (Dr.) Braid’s books on Trance and Hypno­
tism. As the daughter of a neighbour was about to undergo
a small operation for some inflammation of the jaw, her
father asked Olcott to make her unconscious so as not to feel
the pain, which he did successfully. He did not use this
power again till 1883, when he discovered his unusual
mesmeric and healing gifts.
At Amherst he came into contact with a spiritualistic
group, and found here the beginning of that line of
thought which led eventually to H. P. B. and the Theo-
sophical movement. His family were Methodist, but this
form of religious conviction had never appealed to him. He
returned to New York, and by the time he was twenty-three
had won such success at the model farm of Scientific Agri­
culture near Newark, New Jersey, that he was both nationally
and internationally well known. The Greek Government offer­
ed him the Chair of Agriculture in the University of Athens,
which he declined. In 1856 he availed himself of a legacy
to become co-founder of the Westchester Farm School, near
Mt. Vernon, N. Y. This was the first scientific school, upon
the Swiss model, devoted solely to agriculture, and was the
pioneer in the United States of the present system of national
agricultural education. About this time Henry Olcott wrote
three books on Agriculture, one of which, on Sorghum and
Imphee, the Chinese and African Sugar Canes, a Treatise upon
their Origin, Varieties and Culture, 1857, ran into seven
editions, and was placed in school libraries. It caused a brief
panic among foreign sugar planters. In order to further his
studies of sugar-bearing grasses, he was offered a botanical
mission to Caffraria (or Kaffraria, a now unused designation
of eastern Cape Province, S. Africa). This too he declined.
Nor would he accept the Directorship of the Agricultural
Bureau at Washington, D. C., nor the managership of two
immense properties, preferring personal liberty of action. In
HENRY STEEL OLCOTT 37
1857 Olcott became a life member of the U. S. Agricultural
Society. He visited Europe, 1858, in the interests of agri­
culture and his Report of his observations was published
in Appleton’s New American Cyclopaedia, 1859. He was
awarded the largest silver medal (which he long treasured)
made up to that time, presented by the Dept, of Agriculture
for the best reports of the Chicago Exhibition, 1859.
Recognised as an expert, Henry Olcott became one of
the two Agricultural Editors of the famous New York
Tribune, and American correspondent to the Mark Lane
Express (Lond.), the great Corn Trade journal. The Mt.
Vernon Horticultural Society passed a vote of thanks to him
for his able address at their Exhibition ; at which a special
session was held by the Agricultural Committee of the
Legislature of Massachusetts to hear him on the adaptability
of the new sugar plant, Holeus Saccharinus, to cultivation in
New England—especially in view of the growing troubles in
the South, the great sugar producing area.
In December 1859 Olcott was present at the hanging of
John Brown at Charlestown, Va., which was the prelude to
the breaking out of civil war between the North and the
South in April 1861. For many years John Brown had
worked passionately for the abolition of slavery and the
South would have none of him. The New York Tribune was
the leading Abolitionist journal in the North, and published
vivid accounts concerning Brown’s agitation. So furious were
the Virginians about this that they drove out anyone they
suspected of supplying information, and threatened they
would hang the unknown reporter on sight. The reporter left,
but waylaid those coming and going and so managed to
secure a considerable amount of information.
The Virginians were determined that no Northerner
should witness the hanging of Brown, and feared attempts
to rescue him. The Tribune was anxious to have someone
present, and Olcott volunteered to go. Escaping risks on
the way and in constant peril of detection, he managed by
38 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
ruses to get to Charleston. Anxieties had caused him to
forget his trunk, labelled New York, on which were his
initials. All luggage had to go the Provost Marshal to be
examined. It was a matter of life and death. He went to
a young Staff officer whom he thought he could trust and,
under seal of Masonic confidence, told him who he was and
asked him to go to the Court House and claim and bring
away the trunk. This he did. Olcott witnessed the hanging
of the brave and fearless old Abolitionist.1
Henry Olcott married in April 1860 and had four child­
ren to whom he was much attached. His wife was estranged
from him through his later choice of destiny, and sought
and obtained a divorce, and remarried 1881. He kept in
touch with his children, and had a family reunion with
his relatives during his last visit to the United States
in 1906.
At the outbreak of the Civil War in 1861, Olcott enlisted
in the Northern army. Owing to a severe fever and obstinate
dysentery (which troubled him periodically throughout his
life) he was invalided to New York. When about to leave
for the front again, 1862, he was chosen by Stanton, Secretary
of State for War, as a Special Commissioner of the War
Department of the Mustering and Disbursing Office, with the
delicate and arduous task of detecting and exposing the
“ gross frauds and crimes which during the war had been
attempted or perpetrated by unprincipled peculators regard­
less of the welfare of soldiers and sailors.” He fought with
great moral courage through calumny and opposition, till the
worst offenders were tried and imprisoned. After two years
Olcott was loaned to the Navy Department in Philadelphia
to do the same service, and came through, as wrote the
Assist. Secretary of the Treasury, with no stain on his re­
putation, though he faced and dealt with men of power and
audacity who resented interference with their corrupt
1Taken from Col. Olcott's own account “ How we hanged John
Brown," reprinted in New India, 17 Nov. 1928, p. 15.
HENRY STEEL OLCOTT 39
practices. He was complimented by those in authority for
his honourable service and unfaltering courage, his integrity,
patriotism, and uncompromising faithfulness to duty. During
the course of these services Olcott rose to the rank of
Colonel.
In 1865 Col. Olcott resigned his Commission and retired
into private life. He had evidently studied Law previous to
his army experiences, and by 1868 he was admitted to the
Bar and specialised in Customs, Revenue and Insurance
cases. He soon came to the front in his profession, and his
legal opinions and his advocacy were eagerly sought. His
clients were numerous and important.
Col. Olcott was appointed Secretary and Director of the
National Insurance Convention—composed of the officials
from the various States, called to codify and simplify the laws
affecting Insurance Companies. He brought his pheno­
menal energies to bear on the subject. The Conference
continued for two years. 1 he Statute drafted by him and
another able lawyer had the distinction of being passed by
ten State legislatures. His notes on the Conference were
published in two large volumes, and are still the standard
work on Insurance in the United States.
In 1867, when Mr. W. E. Chandler retired from the
Treasury, he recommended President Johnson to appoint
Col. Olcott as his successor. This suggestion was warmly
supported, but a political crisis occurred and Olcott sided
against the President, who, though he had fully determined
upon it, could not then make the appointment.
The “ Rochester Knockings ” took the Spiritualistic
world by storm in 1848, and aroused deepest interest.
Scientists fought shy of these phenomena as a rule, till the
time of Profs. Wallace, Crookes, and others, because of the
many “ gross impostures ” connected with them. The Faculty
of Harvard, 1857, had pronounced against them. Then the
Eddy manifestations drew the startled attention of the world.
Trickery did not explain them. Col. Olcott records that one
40 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
day in 1874 he was thinking over a heavy law case when it
suddenly occurred to him that for years he had not been
paying much attention to the Spiritualistic movement. He
bought a copy of the Banner o f Light and read in it of the
remarkable manifestations at the Eddy farmhouse in Chit­
tenden, Vt. He at once realised the importance of these,
if true. He went to Chittenden and wrote his observa­
tions for the New York Sun. These were copied throughout
the world. The editor of the New York Daily Graphic pro­
posed that he should return to Chittenden and, with an artist
to make sketches, make a thorough investigation, his reputa­
tion for impartial judgment being so well known. He went
back to the Eddys and stayed there for about twelve weeks.
Twice a week there appeared in the Graphic his letters about
the “ Eddy Ghosts.” It was the publication of these letters
that drew Madame Blavatsky to Chittenden to meet Col.
Olcott. They became friends at once.
So keen was public interest in the Colonel’s reports
that newspapers in which they appeared were sold for
a dollar a copy, and seven different publishers contended
for the right to publish them in book form, but he had
arranged for their publication at Hartford, Conn. Before
the book appeared a blight fell upon the Spiritualistic
situation, due to the exposure and denunciation as cheats
of the mediums, Mr. and Mrs. Holmes. The Colonel’s
publishers were so alarmed that, in order to increase
interest in the book, he arranged seances with Mrs. Holmes,
under his own test conditions, which he carried out
successfully with the help of Madame Blavatsky. Then
he went to Havana, N.Y. State, and saw and recorded also
the truly marvellous ” phenomena of a materialisation and
transfiguration medium named Mrs. Compton. He added
these experiences to his book and it was published, under
the title of People from Another World.
Col. Olcott s intimacy with Madame Blavatsky grew.
She began to teach him Occultism and brought him into
HENRY STEEL OLCOTT 4V
touch with the Masters of Wisdom, Who had long planned
for him to assist Them in the founding and development
of The Theosophical Society, 1875, to which he presently
devoted all his time and his splendid gifts. This noted,,
successful man of affairs, in whose grasp lay a great world­
ly career, sacrificed it all in obedience to an inner urge. By
1878 he had lost both wealth and position. His sacrifice
was complete. He laid all his splendid gifts unreservedly
on the altar of a great ideal, to which he gave unswerving
allegiance for the rest of a remarkable life.
T H E M A S T E R S
Who is the Mahatma ? 1 He is the man Who has become perfect,
. . . Who has reached union with the Divine . . . Who by slow
degrees has developed the possibilities of His spiritual nature, and stands
triumphant where we are struggling today.
A nnie Besant, in The Masters as Facts and Ideals.
H. P. B. in her first challenges to public thought hinted at
the existence of great and wise Men, who are possessed of
super-human knowledge and power. Presently she began to
write of a Great Brotherhood of such wise Men, with some
of Whom she was in constant touch. Then Colonel Olcott
issued the Circular on behalf of the “ Brotherhood of Luxor,”
which caused much comment, curiosity and interest. Visitors
to H.P.B. soon became aware that in and through her were
displayed unusual phenomena, the power to accomplish
which she attributed to one or more of Those to Whom, as
Teachers, she looked for guidance, and Whom she served
with such intensity of purpose.
Col. Olcott’s Diaries, begun in 1878, are very rich in
records of the help given to H.P.B. and himself by several
of the Great Ones, on Whose behalf they had undertaken to
face the world and challenge its religious and scientific or­
thodoxies. Little by little H.P.B. let him know of the exist­
ence of Eastern and other Adepts and Their powers. His
first contact was with a Hungarian Adept, the Master
Rakoczi ; then he was brought into pupilage with the
Master Serapis of the Brotherhood of Luxor, the African
Section of the Great White Lodge. This first Guru (Teacher)
he describes as “ a stem disciplinarian . . . a man of
1Lit. maha =great, and atma=Self ; a Master of Wisdom.
THE MASTERS 43
splendid masculinity of character.” Later, he was trans­
ferred to his own Master of the Himalayan Group, of Whom
he declared in The Theosophist1he was an “ accepted pupil,”
and with Whom he remained in communion until the time
of his passing. In those early years he said he was privi­
leged to know four other Masters as well—a Copt, a re­
presentative of the neo-Platonist Alexandrian School, and
an English philosopher, gone from men’s sight, yet not dead,
and a very high Master of Masters.
In Isis Unveiled (1877) H. P. B. wrote freely yet guarded­
ly of the “ Oriental Kabalists ” (Rishis) of a very ancient
pre-Aryan India, with quite other geographical boundaries
than now, where was cherished a “ secret doctrine ” that
agreed with truth ; of Chaldean Magi who were “ masters in
the secret doctrine,” and of correct astronomical calculations,
from whom the Jews learned its “ metaphysical as well as
practical tenets ” during their Babylonian captivity, and
embodied them in their Kabala, Zohar, and Genesis : of
Egyptian temple hierophants who, mighty in their day, taught
their neophytes the secret doctrine of evolution, and laid the
foundations of chemistry ; of the Theurgists of early Samo-
thracian ana later Eleusinian mysteries, where the “ occult
properties of electricity and magnetism ” were known and
taught. Thus did she trace in part the mighty stream of
Wisdom which has come down “ from time immemorial ” to
the present day. She wrote also of their inheritors, the
Masters and Initiates of today, high among them being “ the
venerable Mah ” (the first syllable of the word Mahachohan)
“ who lives at this very day in a spot unknown to all but
initiates.”
Well-authenticated accounts of the many appearances
of the Masters are given, not only in Col. Olcott’s Diaries
but also in early numbers of The Theosophist, in The
Occult World, The Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnett, Hints
on Esoteric Theosophy and H. P. B .’s Letters to A. P. Sinnett,
'April, 1882; Supplement.
44 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
etc. It is possible to construct from these quite an imposing
list of the number of people who saw Them, and to gain a
clear idea of the nature and influence of Those in Whose
august hands lies final authority. In The Mahatma Letters
we find the Masters Themselves speaking of Their “ Chiefs,”
in ascending rank, till, at the apex, there are Those Who can
“ no longer err” and Who “ appear on Earth but at the
origin of every new human kind ” . . . and whose
“ mission is but to strike the KEY NOTE OF TRUTH, which
vibration runs its course to the end of the cycle.” (p. 41).
1. This “ Chief” or “ Planetary Spirit” is one and
himself, but at the same time is also an aggregate of many
types of consciousness and in this aspect is known as a
Dhyan Chohan, or Lord of Mind, and as the body of Dhyan-
Chohans, his collaborators or blended units of differing
degrees of attainment, who bear a variety of names and to
become one of which is open to every purified Ego—the
result of effort and experience.
2. Under the Planetary Spirit are these Dhyanis as
collective host, lordly, self-existent, each of whom, as an
individual Self perceives the S elf—for the human intelligence
becomes or perceives Universal Intelligence. This Omni­
present Universal Spirit is the temple of Nature M an in
his turn is the temple of his true Self, therefore he shares in
the Universal Intelligence. To know this is the goal of
evolution.
3. Those who know it as a conscious reality are the
“ Adepts,” in differing ranges of experience. They are
members of the Occult Hierarchy who, by tremendous
effort, have made themselves into conscious co-workers with
the great Plan conceived, originated and kept in motion by
the Logos, God, or Planetary Spirit of a universe, large or
small. These Adepts bear names which indicate their
authority, or attainment and responsibility. All must come
through the human, man, or thinking process. 1 here are
“ seven stages ” of Initiation in an Adept’s growth, in the
THE MASTERS 45
■degrees of which he gradually discovers the secret of the
sevenfold principles in nature and man, and awakens his
own dormant powers. The world of force is the world of
Occultism, and the only one whither the highest Initiate goes
to probe the secrets of being. The Adept sees and feels and
lives in the very source of all fundamental truths. To the
last and supreme initiation every chela—(and even some
Adepts) is left to his own device and counsel. He has to
fight his own battles, and the familiar adage—“ the Adept
becomes, he is not made ” is true to the letter.1
After Adepts, in descending order come Arhats, then
Initiates of three other grades, and lastly accepted and
probationary pupils (chelas).
In 1888 The Secret Doctrine was published, and the nature
of the Occult Hierarchy was explained more fully therein.
H. P. B. traced, to its beginning on Earth, the work of the
Hierarchy, Whose members are the Guardians, and also
Teachers to Man, of the Divine Wisdom which we call Theos­
ophy. She told of the coming from Venus to Earth, six and a
half million years ago, of the small band of mighty Beings “ to
form the nursery for future human Adepts on this Earth.” The
head of the band is the “ Wondrous Being,” the Initiator,
“‘ the Tree, from which in subsequent ages, all the great
historically known Sages and Hierophants, such as the Rishi
Kapila, Hermes, Enoch, Orpheus, etc., have branched off.”
“ It is under the direct, silent guidance of this M a h a -
GURU that all the other less divine Teachers and Instructors
of Mankind became, from the first awakening of human
consciousness, the guides of early Humanity. It is through
these “ Sons of God ” that infant Humanity learned its
first notions of all the arts and sciences, as well as of
spiritual knowledge, and it is They who laid the first
foundation-stone of those ancient civilisations that so sorely
puzzle our modern generation of students and scholars.” '
1Paragraphs 1, 2 & 3 are summarised from The Mahatma Letters.
- The Secret Doctrine, /, p. 229, 1893 edition.
46 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
The Secret Doctrine also gives the descending scale of
Beings from the first Mighty One, the Lord of the World,
down through the Pratyeka Buddhas and Buddhas, the
Manu, Bodhisattva, and Mahachohan, the Chohans, the
Aseka Adepts, the Arhats, and the Initiates of the remain­
ing three degrees, to the accepted and probationary
pupils. From The Secret Doctrine may be gathered the
names of some Initiates who have played a special part in
the advancement of religion, philosophy, art and science. For
instance, H.P.B. says St. Paul, Plato and Moses were Initiates,
and that there were and are Initiates in many countries, if
not all. Among those who attain Adeptship (Masterhood),
a few only remain on Earth to promote its evolution in ac­
cordance with God’s plan. At present only some fifty or sixty
are so engaged. In the spiritual world the Occult Hierarchy
focusses the Life of God. In the physical world They main­
tain three centres of the Occult Brotherhood, each “ widely
separated geographically, and as widely exoterically—the
true esoteric doctrine being identical in substance though
differing in terms ; all aiming at the same grand object, but
no two agreeing seemingly in the details of procedure.” 1
In later books, such as The Masters as Facts and Ideals,
The Inner Government o f the World, Talks on the Path o f
Occultism, and in The Masters and the Path, more detailed
accounts are given of the nature and work of some of the
members of the Occult Hierarchy. This information can
here be summarised only with brevity.
In The Inner Government o f the World is given a fine
description of the divine source from which the very greatest
officials in the Hierarchy derive all authority. “ The highest
Ishvara emanates the root of matter. The Ishvara of our
solar system working on that . . . the Ether of Space,
isolates a portion of it by a Ring He makes round it, and
within that Ring-enclosed space our solar system is formed.
His breath going into this primary Ether forms the primary
1Mahatma Letters, p. 399.
THE MASTERS l 47
bubbles . . . and out of these the atoms of the solar
system are formed by aggregation.” Of this great Ishvara
(God, or Lord, or Logos) the Sun is the physical body, his
■golden vase of Light. In this aspect of Brahma (Creator
or organiser of material) Ishvara builds the aggregations and
of this rough material shapes sub-planes. In His aspect of
Vishnu (preserver of form) He shapes the material into forms,
assisted by mighty Devas (Angels) and their hosts. In His
aspect of Shiva (destoyer, or liberator from form) He brings
spirit and matter together, for the sake of experience, in an
infinite variety of ways, none being permanent. These three
Supreme Beings who sustain the solar system are its God­
head, and are the fount of authority of the Occult Hierarchy,
which in its sublime Lords and Chiefs wields that divine
authority on our small Earth and inflexibly pursues God’s
plan of Evolution, to the understanding of and participation
in which they call to the inherent Godhead in man. Raying
out from this central Life are the Seven Spirits before “ the
Throne,” whose representatives on Earth are the Chiefs of
the Official Hierarchy, and the Heads of the great specialised
yet interblending Rays.
0
THE LORD OF THE WORLD
The Lord of the World is the “ One Initiator ” at the
Head of the Hierarchy, and the other great officials hold re­
presentative offices under Him. He is the agent on earth of
the First Logos, Whose consciousness He shares. His Keynote
is Will, for He wields the divine Will on earth. Though He
dwells in consciousness on the Adi (first plane), He descends
to the Atmic (third plane), and appears at times through the
body He uses at Shamballa, an oasis in the Gobi Desert.
This body is like that of a Youth of sixteen summers, and is
artificially kept alive and unchanged throughout thousands
of years. The Lord has as Pupils three Lords of the Flame
Who came with Him from Venus. He deals with the Heads
of the Occult Hierarchy. He confers the Third Initiation, or
48 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
deputes one of His three Pupils to do so. Those climbing
upwards to His status, the ninth or highest Initiation, are
called Pratyeka Buddhas when they reach the eighth. His
representative is the Manu. Occasionally an Avatara
“ descent,” of one of these Three appears in the outer world.
THE BUDDHA
The present Buddha is the first of our humanity to reach
this exalted position. He is One with the Second Logos,
whose Wisdom He embodies. Wisdom, therefore, is his
Keynote. His consciousness dwells on the Anupadaka
(second plane), and he descends only to the Buddhic level.
He takes charge of the special work of the Second Ray for
the whole world, devoting himself to that part which lies in
the higher worlds. He appeared as Vyasa, Hermes, the
first Zoroaster, Orpheus and lastly in India, as the Buddha
of the Fourth Race, Prince Siddhartha, or Gautama the
Buddha. Yearly he overshadows and blesses the world at
Vaisakh, the May full-moon. He is the “ patron of all
Adepts, the reformer and codifier of the occult system.” The
highest Initiation on this Ray is the eighth. His representa­
tive is the Bodhisattva Maitreya.
THE MAHACHOHAN
The consciousness of the Mahachohan is one with the
Third Logos. He dwells in consciousness on the Nirvanic
(Atmic) plane and His Keynote is Divine Activity. He
descends to the physical plane. His work in the world is
done through the other five Rays, of which He is the Head.
He directs the minds of men so that culture and civilisation
will unfold according to cyclic plan. He is a great statesman
and organiser, and possesses warrior-like qualities. To attain
to His degree of greatness and perfection is the goal on our
Earth of Rays three to seven. His is the Seventh degree of
Initiation. His body is Indian, “ with very clear cut features,
THE MASTERS 49
very calm, looking an embodiment of law. He speaks with
weighty decisiveness that is most impressive.” 1
These three “ mighty officials are not merely reflections
of the Three Aspects of the Logos, but are in a very real
way actual manifestations of Them . . . They . . .
have reached grades of consciousness on the planes of nature
beyond the fields of humanity, where dwells the manifest­
ed Logos.”
THE MANU VAIVASVATA is the First Ray representa­
tive, under the direction of the Lord of the World. His Key­
note also is Will, Power. He is the Manu of the Fifth Root
Race. His will is constantly at work modelling for the entire
period of this Root Race the details of its evolution. When a
Manu takes charge of a Root Race, He brings down the
thought-form of it from the Divine Mind, and according to
that plan He selects from the world such men and women as
most closely resemble the type, draws them apart, and gradu­
ally develops in them such characteristics as the new Race
requires. When this has been done as far as possible,
He Himself incarnates in the segregated group. His physical
descendants only constitute the new Race type. In these
pure-blooded descendants, secured by forbidding marriage out­
side the group, He again incarnates, and continues to mould
the physical, as He has done all the time the subtler vehicles,
nearer to the model given Him by the Logos, Whose Plan it all
is. He deals with the Kings, Rulers and Governors of the
world. His Initiation is the Seventh He lives on the
southern slopes of the Himalayas. His body is Indian,
of a magnificent patriarchal type. His successor is the
Master Morya.
THE BODHISATTVA MAITREYA. His Keynote is
Wisdom. He is the assistant, representative of and successor
in office to the Lord Buddha. His Initiation is the Seventh
and His is the office of “ the Christ.” He sends out all
great religious Teachers, and is the Head of all Faiths.
1 From Dr. Besant’s Letters to Bishop Leadbeater.
4
50 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
He incarnated as Shri Krishna in India, and as the Christ in
Palestine. He sent as His messengers : Mitra to Persia ;
Lao-tze and Confucius to China ; He overshadowed Tsong-
kha-pa in Tibet. Among His Pupils whom He sent into
the world were Nagarjuna, a S. Indian Brahman, who be­
came a Buddhist monk, (d. 180 A.D.), and was later the Master
K. H. ; Aryasanga, a Peshawar Brahman, who became a
Buddhist, born about 350 A.D., and was later the Master Djual
Khool ; Ramanujacharya, (b. 1127, in S. India) founder of the
Vishishtadvaita system of philosophy, and an incarnation
of the Master Jesus; Madhavacharya, S. India, died 1317,
founder of the Advaita system of philosophy ; the Prophet
Muhammed, (d. 632 A.D.). When His work is completed, the
Lord Maitreya will become the Buddha of the Fifth Race.
His body is of Celtic (Irish) origin. The post of Bodhisattva
falls vacant once in each Root Race, but there are already
many now being prepared who are destined to fill the office
in the far future.
THE MASTER M. is the Chohan and Head of the
First Ray, and is the assistant and successor to the
Lord Vaivasvata Manu. He has taken the Sixth
Initiation. His Keynote is Power or Strength. His work
is to guide men and form nations. He was one of the
two Masters Who formed The Theosophical Society, Who
makes a link with every member who joins and guides
some to do so, because of reasons in their previous lives.
He wears an Indian body of kingly Rajput type, expressing
power, strength and imperious dignity. He lives in a valley
near Shigatze, Tibet, but travels, and has been seen
physically by a number of people in The Theosophical
Society.
THE MASTER K. H. is the Chohan of the Second Ray,
and is the assistant, successor and representative of the Lord
Maitreya. His keynote is Wisdom. His work has to do with
religion, education, art, and all that prepares Him to be the
next Bodhisattva, and afterwards the Buddha of the Sixth
THE MASTERS 51
Root Race. He spends much time in active meditation on
the world, sending out streams of thought and benediction.
He is the guardian of the Occult Museum which exists in
vast subterranean halls near His house in the same valley as
that of the Master M. He is a great linguist and musician.
In one of His former incarnations He was the great philoso­
pher and teacher Pythagoras. His body is that of a fair
Kashmiri Brahman. He too travels, and a number of people in
The Theosophical Society have seen Him. In ancient Egypt,
or Khem as it was then called, Mr. Sinnett made a link with
the Master K. H. through a great act of service. Hence the
thousandfold return He made to him in this life. H. P. B.
first met this Master in 1868.
THEVENETIAN MASTER is the Chohan and Head of the
Third Ray. His Keynote is Adaptability or Tact. In the
people of this Ray, engaged in the service of man, the charac­
teristic of adaptability and its influence tends to make them
fit themselves to others the better to help them. The advanced
members have a rare faculty for doing the right thing at
the right moment, and for this reason the science of Astrology
is connected with this Ray—to know the exact time to do or
not to do things. The Master’s body is Venetian, with
Gothic blood, and He is the most handsome of all the mem­
bers of the Brotherhood. He was Plotinus in the Alexan­
drian Schools of Philosophy.
THE MASTER SERAPIS is the Chohan and Head of the
Fourth Ray. The special work and keynote of this Chohan
is Harmony and Beauty, and people belonging to His line
eagerly seek to introduce these qualities into their environ­
ment. In this Ray art is pre-eminent and many artists
belong to it. The Master Serapis is a fair Greek by birth,
distinguished and ascetic, blue-eyed, with sunny red-gold hair.
All His work has been done in Egypt and in connection
with the Egyptian Lodge. He took much interest in the
founding of The Theosophical Society, helping and guiding
its founders, especially Col. Olcott.
52 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
THE MASTER HILARION is Head and Chohan of the
Fifth Ray. His Keynote is Science (detailed knowledge), the
splendid quality of scientific accuracy. He influences great
scientists, and those well-advanced along this Ray are noted
for their ability and dependability in scientific investigation.
He gave the wonderful classics, The Voice o f the Silence
through H. P. B., and Light on the Path through Mabel
Collins. The Venetian Master translated the aphorisms in
Light on the Path, in their earliest form, from the Sanskrit
into Greek, for the use of his Alexandrian pupils, of
whom the Master Hilarion was one. In turn, the Master
Hilarion translated and gave them to The Theosophical
Society and the world through Mabel Collins. In that
former life the Master Hilarion was Iamblichus of the
Neo-Platonic Schools. He worked in the Gnostic move­
ment and still helps Christianity. His body is of handsome
ancient Greek type, born in Crete or Greece, and he lives
sometimes in Egypt. H. P. B. spoke of Him as the Cyprian
Adept. She saw Him both in Egypt and Greece, and He
helped her write some of her stories. The story, The En­
souled Violin in The Theosophisl, Jan. 1880, is signed by Him
as Hillarion Smerdis, F.T.S., Cyprus, Oct. 1st, 1879. H. P. B.
met Him first in 1860.
THE MASTER JESUS is Chohan and Head of the Sixth
Ray. His Keynote is intense Purity and a Fiery Devotion that
brooks no obstacles. He is the Master of devotees and has
charge of the saints and mystics of every religion. He is an
“ ideal of righteousness.” Fie became the Guardian and is
the Shepherd of the Christian Church—founded by the Christ,
Who occupied His body—inspiring, disciplining, purifying
it century after century and now pouring forth the stream
of Mystic Christianity. He wears a Syrian body and lives
on Mt. Lebanon among the Druses. Jesus reincarnated
as Apollonius of Tyana, and was sent by the Brotherhood
on a mission to found magnetic centres for use in great
events then far in the future. In a previous incarnation he
THE MASTERS 53
was the great Vishistadvaita teacher Ràmànujàchàrya (12th
century), declaring the Love of God and the ways of uniting
with that supreme Love.
THE MASTER THE PRINCE RAKOCZI is the Chohan
and Head of the Seventh Ray, the Keynote of which is Ordered
Service, or Ceremonial Magic. In this work He employs the
services of great Angels, who obey Him implicitly and love to
do His will. He is much engaged with ceremonial, not only
in this but in other worlds, and still works some of the rituals
of the Ancient Mysteries, long forgotten in the outer world.
He is much concerned also with the political situation in
Europe and North America, and in the growth of modern
Science. He speaks all European and many Oriental langu­
ages. A splendid and rhythmic Latin is the special vehicle
of His thought. This high Prince, the last of the Rakoczi
house, has a Hungarian body, is slim in appearance and of
great dignity, and has retained His body for a very long time.
He was also known as the Comte de St. Germain. In early
Theosophic literature He was called “ the Hungarian Adept."
He travels very widely. Some of His past incarnations
were : St. Alban (d. 226 or 303), the Neo-Platonist Proclus i
(410—485), Roger Bacon (1275), Christian Rosencreutz (1378
—1484), Hunyadi Janos (1387—1456), Robertus the monk
(16th century), Francis Bacon, Lord Verulam (1561—1626).
Of other members of the Occult Hierarchy a little is
known. The M a st e r J u p it e r , First Ray, Who acts for the
Hierachy as guardian of India, is said to have been in the
past the Rishi Agastya. He penetrates deeply into the
abstruser sciences of which chemistry and astronomy are the
outer shells. He was sometimes spoken of as Nàràyan,”
by H. P. B., and greatly assisted her in writing Isis Unveiled.
His home is somewhere in the Tiruvallum Hills, Madras
Presidency. In The Theosophist, June, 1882, He writes about
the difficulties then occurring in relation to the Àrya Samàj,
and describes Himself as “ One of the Hindu Founders of
the Parent Society.” His body is of Hindu birth, upright
54 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
and alert. The M a st e r DjUAL K hool is on the Second Ray,
and was a pupil of the Master K. H., near Whom he lives in
the same valley. His body is Tibetan and His appearance
somewhat rugged. In previous lives He was Dharmajyoti, a
follower of the Buddha ; Kleinias, chief pupil of Pythagoras ;
and Aryásanga, about the 7th century, A.D., who founded
the Buddhist monastery in the Himalayas to which H. P. B.
went to study, and there obtained a knowledge of the
material which she afterwards published as The Voice o f the
Silence. He visited H. P. B. at Cairo and was there seen by
C. W. Leadbeater, who was travelling with her to India.
At Adyar He assisted with the early preparation of The
Secret Doctrine, and taught Mr. Leadbeater and others.
The two Masters Who live in England are said to be :
(1) He who was known in His last life as Sir Thomas
More, and (2) He who was known as Thomas Vaughan,
'* Eugenius Philalethes.”
The physical bodies the Masters prepare for themselves
are rare, precious, and take considerable time and energy to
produce. They therefore cause them to last as long as pos­
sible, sometimes hundreds of years. The Masters use several
places where They reside temporally or permanently. Some
such are—Tibet: Than-la, Terich-mir valley, Sakkya-jong,
Shigatze, Kokonor. China. India : Southern slopes of
Himalayas, near Darjeeling, Tiruvallum (Madras Presidency),
Bombay. Egypt : Luxor. Syria : Lebanon Mts. Europe :
Hungary, possibly Greece. England. America : Yucatan.
What holds this Brotherhood together ? Duty,—answer­
ed the Master K. H. “ And duty, . . . is for us,
stronger than any friendship or even love, as without this
abiding principle which is the indestructible cement that has
held together for so many milleniums, the scattered custodians
of nature’s grand secrets—our Brotherhood, nay, our doc­
trine itself—would have crumbled long ago into unrecognis­
able elements.” 1
1The Mahátmá Letters, p. 351.
THE MASTERS 55
We see therefore that this great Brotherhood is an order­
ed Hierarchy, and to what has been written about it the
student can himself find corroborative evidence in the great
Scriptures of the world. The only way to win to the Temple
of Divine Wisdom is to “ get a knowledge of spiritual facts
by personal experience and from actual observation.” To
gain access to the great Brotherhood, it was recommended
that those who would be the followers of the Adepts into
Their spiritual world must sink all personality into one idea—
“ absolute right and absolute practical justice for all.”
Besides Their Cosmic activities the Masters are said to
engage in other work as follows : (1) From the highest
spheres They shed light and influence on all the world, to be
used by those who are receptive. (2) They pour spiritual
energy for distribution through those specially connected
with religions. (3) They send out thought-forms of high
intellectual power, to be caught up, assimilated and used by
men of genius. (4) They notify to Their disciples tasks that
need doing. (5) They generate thought-forms which in­
fluence the concrete mind and guide along useful lines.
(6) Helping in the astral world the so-called dead ; super­
vising of and teaching young pupils ; sending aid in in­
numerable cases of need. (7) Watching tendencies of
events, the correcting and neutralising as far as law permits
of evil currents, balancing forces that work for and against
evolution, strengthening good, weakening evil. (8) Working
with the Angels of Nations, guiding the spiritual as the
Angels guide the material ; choosing and rejecting actors
in the great Drama ; influencing the councils of men, and
supplying the needful influences in the right direction.
(9) Inspiring those “ end of the century ” efforts when one or
more messengers are sent out to stir the world to greater
knowledge and progress along some special line ; and
particularly to break the bonds of orthodoxy, dogma and
hardness of thought which clog human growth. (10) Above
all, They are that “ Guardian Wall around humanity within
56 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
which it can progress uncrushed by the tremendous cosmic
forces that play round our planetary house.”
We have seen how the Masters reach out to help the
world, and there are many books which teach the ways man
may serve Them. Though the grades of service to Them
are for all alike, yet the method of reaching and the speed of
attaining any grade depend on the character and temperament
of the pupil. The Way, the Path to the Masters, is revealed
with great beauty in Dr. Besant’s book. Initiation : The Per­
fecting o f Man. For members of The Theosophical Society
Col. Olcott’s recommendation will perhaps serve best of all :
“ I have been going on all these years on the hint given me
long ago by a Master, that the best way to seek Them was
through The Theosophical Society.” 1
1See also O l d D i a r y L e a v e s, ii, p. 72.
1874-1875: P R E P A R A T IO N
“ Ante and Post Natal History of The Theosophical
Society and the Tribulations, Mortifications and
Triumphs of its Fellows.”
W ith this inscription H.P.B. prefaces the first of her thirty-
one precious SCRAPBOOKS. At the top of the first cutting
she wrote these words :
“ The Curtain is raised—H.S.O.’s acquaintance on
October 14, 1874 with H.P.B. at Chittenden
In the top middle of the page is a portion of an article
about the arrival of Countess Helen P. de Blavatsky at the
Eddy’s home in Chittenden, Vermont. It was written by
Col. Olcott and appeared in the New York Daily Graphic,
for which paper he was reporting on his investigations of
the world-renowned Eddy mediuinship. He wrote that her
adventures would make one of the most “ romantic stories ”
ever told. He was about to describe the documentary proof of
her identity and family that she had allowed him to inspect,
but she cut it short.1
H. P. B. had gone to Chittenden ostensibly, like many
others, to observe the phenomena ; but actually, firstly, to
meet Col. Olcott as directed, and begin to train him for the
work ahead ; secondly, to carry out certain experiments her­
self, and test her own power to controHhem. Regarding their
meeting, Col. Olcott afterwards wrote :
“ A strange concatenation oi events brought us together and
united our lives for this work, under the superior direction of a group of
Masters, specially of the One, whose wise teaching, noble example,
benevolent patience and paternal solicitude have made us regard him
1The excised portion appears in Col. Olcott’s book, P e o p l e f r o m t h e
O th e r W orld .
58 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
with the reverence and love that a true Father inspires in his children.
1am indebted to H. P. Blavatsky for making me know of the existence of
these Masters and their Esoteric philosophy, and later, for acting as my
mediator before I had come into direct personal intercourse with them.”1
Col. Olcott was one of the first whom H. P. B. drew into
such relationship, and, as will appear, she sought eagerly for
others to train likewise, and over and over again formed
them into small groups, in the hope that they would pledge
themselves as fully to the Cause she had at heart as she
had done. Much later on her efforts succeeded.
As regards the phenomena she witnessed, and often
controlled, she saw how her own recollections and brain
images were drawn from her memory and disfigured in the
confused amalgamation that took place between' their re­
flection in the medium’s brain, which instantly sent them out,
and the shells" which sucked them in like a sponge and
objectivised them—a hideous shape with a mask on. She
•could watch the process. She knew William Eddy to be a
genuine medium and the phenomena as real as could
be, so when after two years of great publicity he was attacked
•for cheating, she defended him in the newspapers.
For many reasons, past and future, said H. P. B., the
United States of America have a peculiar Karma with such
1I n c id e n ts in th e L i f e o f H . P . B la ü a lsk y , p. 182.
2H. P. B. made it perfectly clear that “ shells" were the cast-off
astral remnants of those who had passed onwards. According to the
sensuous affinities of these shells, contracted of course while still on
earth, would be their attraction to mediums. Whatever cravings they
bad they would blindly satisfy through the medium or urge him to
develop it. The “ Spirits," (or Egos, as we would now call them), of the
departed, move on into the higher astral or into the heaven world,
and completely lose all touch with earth. To reach them the living
must in thought and love draw near to them, especially during sleep ;
the law prevents them descending to us. Their “ shells " have nothing
in common with them, any more than has a dead physical body with the
vanished occupant.
“ Elementáis " and “ Elementary Spirits ” are names freely met with
in these early days, and mean what we would now describe as “ nature
spirits ”—denizens of earth, air, fire and water. They often take part in
seances and are given to mockery and mimicry. Such a conception of
the part played by “ Elementary Spirits ” was a revolutionary idea in
.Spiritualism.
1874-1875: PREPARATION 59
mediumistic phenomena, and are “ a most prolific hotbed for
mediums and sensitives.” She pointed to the law which
governs such “ epidemics ” of invasion by denizens from the
other world. She said “ the intensity of the epidemic depends
upon the welcome they receive, upon whether they find the
doors opening wider to receive them or not, and whether the
necromantic plague is increased by magnetic attraction, the
desire of the mediums, sensitives, and the curious themselves,
or whether again, the danger being signalled, the epidemic is
wisely suppressed. Such a periodical visitation is now
occurring in America. It began with innocent children—the
little Misses Fox—playing unconsciously with this terrible
weapon. And, welcomed and passionately invited to come
in, the whole of the dead community rushed in and got a
more or less strong hold of the living. . . At the
Eddys she watched these “ soulless ” shadows preserve
themselves at the expense of the hundreds of visitors and
the mediums.
Under the advice and guidance of her Master she saw :
(1) That those apparitions which were genuine were produced
by the ghosts of those who had lived and died within a certain
area of these mountains ; (2) those who had died far away
were less entire, a mixture of the real shadow and of that which
lingered in the personal aura of the visitor for whom it pur­
ported to come ; and (3) the purely fictitious ones, . . .
the reflections of the genuine ghosts and shadows of the
deceased personality . . . it was not the spooks that assi­
milated the medium, but the medium, William Eddy, who
assimilated unconsciously to himself the pictures of dead
relatives and friends from the aura of the sitters. . . . ‘‘ It
was a sight to see the welcome given to these umbrae by
the spiritualists . . . a joy and happiness that made my
heart bleed for them. . . . If they only knew that these
simulacra of men and women are made up wholly of the
terrestrial passions, vices and worldly thoughts, of the resi­
duum of the personality that could not follow the liberated
60 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
soul and spirit, and are left for a second death in the
terrestrial atmosphere, that can be seen by the average
medium and the public. At times I used to see one of such
phantoms quitting the medium’s astral body, pouncing upon
one of the sitters, expanding so as to envelop him entirely,,
and then slowly disappearing within the living body as
though sucked in by its every pore.” 1
H. P. B. tried to make some at least of this clear to
Col. Olcott, and that the Eddy phenomena were no proof of
the intelligent control of mediums by “ spirits." He thought
he knew better, and disputed with her. He did not
see the force of her hints, but she drew out his own
ideas and expressed pleasure that he had intuitively thought
along the occult lines she had herself pursued. As he knew
next to nothing about Eastern philosophy, she was silent
for the time being on that subject. “ Without being asked
by H. P. B. to give up the spiritualistic hypothesis, I was
made to feel that, as a true science, Spiritualism could only
be said to exist in the East, and its proficients were pupils
and teachers of the Oriental schools of Occultism.” '
Up to the time of H. P. B.’s visit, the apparitions and
spirit guides ” who had appeared at the Eddys, were mostly
Indians, as would be natural, or Americans, or Europeans
akin to the sitters, about one hundred and nineteen alto­
gether. Instead, she summoned seven “ spirits ” whom she
had met during her travels, and caused them to appear fully
clothed in all their various dresses and costumes, of which
the other sitters knew nothing. One of them brought to her
the buckle from a medal of honour which had been granted
to her father, and the buckle had been buried with him in
Russia.
H. P. B. left Chittenden and returned to New York. Col.
Olcott remained to finish his researches, but she kept up a
correspondence with him. He began to realise that she had
'I n c i d e n t s , pp. 177-9.
■O ld D i a r y L e a v e s, i, p. 43.
1874-1875 : PREPARATION 61
the design of gradually showing that behind the phenomena
of Spiritualism there was something far greater. About this
time, or a little later, she told him that the outburst of
materialistic phenomena, which had for so many years been
exciting keen interest and controversy, had been caused by
the Brotherhood of Adepts as an evolutionary agency.1 To
emphasise this she took the opportunity given by a Dr.
G. M. Beard, physician,—who scoffed at the Eddy manifesta­
tions, and said that with a few dollars worth of drapery he
could clothe all the pretended appearances—to flout him in
a letter published in the New York Daily Graphic, 27 Oct.
1874. She wrote that though ‘ a Spiritualist' of many years
standing, I am more sceptical in receiving evidence from paid
mediums than many unbelievers.” She cited the many other,
as well as the seven appearances,1at the Eddys, and declared
that a few yards of drapery could not provide the elaborate
and different costumes. . . . When she received such
evidences as at Chittenden she felt bound in honour, under
penalty of confessing herself a moral coward, to defend the
mediums as well as the thousands of Spiritualists against
slander. She challenged Beard to the amount of $500 to
produce anything similar. This challenging letter gave
H. P. B. great publicity, a publicity not confined to America,
but which circled the world. It brought her also the larger
responsibility of teaching the truth, a responsibility which
weighed upon her more and more heavily as time went on.
Dr. Beard did not take up her challenge, but wrote an
article in which he was supposed scientifically to expose
phenomena. H. P. B. dealt with him severely in the
Press.
1See Chapter on Spiritualism, p. 22.
- In the Scrapbook H. P. B. crossed out the word “ Spiritualist ”
and wrote “ Occultist ” in its place.
3H. P. B.’s own illuminating comment written in the margin was :
“ They may be the portraits of the dead people they represent (they
certainly are n ot spirits or Souls) yet a r e a l phenomena produced by
the Elementarles.’’
62 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
From this time forward H. P. B. was writing continu­
ously on Spiritualism to the newspapers and journals, and
was apparently issuing some of her articles as pamphlets,
which were sold by the thousand.
Col. Olcott’s articles on the Eddys continued to appear,
and, whenever criticised in the Press, H. P. B. took up their
defence. When the Colonel returned to New York, he called
upon H. P. B., who continued his occult education ; in which
he was helped also by “ John King,” who answered by means
of raps the questions put to him. The Colonel in his turn
assisted H. P. B. to find engagements to write weird stories
for some journals, for she had to earn her own living. She
also translated his Chittenden letters for the Russian papers.
In December, 1874, H. P. B. wrote to the London Spirit­
ualist that it was her duty to defend Spiritualism from “ the
attacks of imposture under its too transparent mask of
science.” . . . For fifteen years she had fought her
“ battle for the blessed truth.” She had travelled and
preached it . . from the snow-covered tops of the
Caucasian mountains, as well as from the sandy valley of
the Nile. . . “ For the sake of Spiritualism I have became
a wanderer on the face of this earth. . . . Knowing this
country to be the cradle of modern Spiritualism, I came over
here . . . with feelings not unlike those of a Moham­
medan approaching the birth place of his prophet.” It had
been computed there were about eleven million Spiritualists
in America, and “ when one man . . . dares to defy
such a formidable body as that there must be some cause
for it . . . the American Spiritualists have allowed
themselves to be ridiculed and slighted by everyone who
had a mind to . . . but Spiritualism is not ‘ fashionable ’
as yet, and that’s where the trouble is.” One writer deplored
the frequent accounts of trifling phenomena and suggested
the “ spirits ” should do something of practical utility. H.P.B.
replied “ we have to defend phenomena and prove them
true before we teach philosophy.”
1874-1875 : PREPARATION 63-
To H. P. B.’s apartments in New York came the usual,
throng of those interested or curious to hear and speak with
her. Among them was William Quan Judge, who had read
Col. Olcott’s book, People from the Other World, and wrote
to him about it. He asked Judge to call upon H. P. B. He
did so, and was immediately and deeply attracted and im­
pressed by her. She showed him at once that she knew all
about him, his private affairs and family history, to which she
could have had no access. She always remained kindly and
friendly to him, and appreciative of his efforts to help The
Theosophical Society. He saw her perform many phenomena,
some of which are described in Old Diary Leaves, Vol. i.
In Philadelphia two mediums, Mr. and Mrs. Holmes,
were giving supposedly remarkable demonstrations of
materialisations of the famous ‘ Katie King.” They were
under the direction of a Dr. Henry T. Child. He and the
Holmes conspired to have “ Katie ” cleverly personated by a
living woman, but there were many well-known Spiritualists
who believed her to be the genuine “ Katie,” and wrote to
the papers endorsing the manifestations with the weight of
their own names. Finally, suspicions were aroused. H. P. B.
and Col. Olcott were both given “ Orders ” by the Master
Scrapis to expose Child and the false phenomena, and at the
same time to defend the genuineness, as far as it went, of the
mediumship of the Holmes. The exposure was made,
distressed many, and caused the more rabid and fanatical to'
denounce H. P. B. herself and those who had assisted in the
exposure. H. P. B. rehabilitated Mrs. Holmes. Aided by the
power of the Master she brought out the figures of John and
Katie King, causing a real manifestation to take place, to the
alarm of Mrs. Holmes. Despite her solemn promise to
H. P. B. never to resort again to trickery, Mrs. Holmes after­
wards did so, and H. P. B. was then directed to leave her to
her fate.
The name of “ John King ” seems to have been used by
H. P. B. to cover several facts. The appearance of the John.
6 4 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
King who assisted at seances was that of a man with a dark
pale face, black beard, dressed in white flowing garments
and turban. She spoke of her Master, who had a similar
appearance, as “ a ‘ John King,’ ” one who had saved her life
several times, and was her watchful Guardian. There was a
second John King, the buccaneer, the “ messenger of the
living Adepts ” who for forty years, under this pseudonym,
had assisted at the better class of seances all over the world.
This was the “ earth-haunting soul of Sir Henry de
Morgan,” “ the busiest and most powerful spirit connected
with modern Spiritualism.” “ Consult your John King,’’
wrote Aksakoff, when he asked for a medium in 1875,
“. . . I am certain he will not refuse our committee, and I
hope he will give our scientists hard work.” Finally, there
was a third John King, a somewhat troublesome, often
obliging elemental, who exercised the usual elemental delight
in humbugging people. The John King who was Sir Henry
de Morgan took no further part in spiritualistic work after
1877. His expiation was over. While H. P. B. was in
Philadelphia John King (the buccaneer) assisted her to make
a painting of himself on white satin, doing most of it himself.
This picture caused much comment at the time, and is still
preserved at The Society’s Headquarters, Adyar. It was
because of John King’s fame that Dr. Child dared to produce
a book which had been dictated by himself as the biography
of Katie King. When Col. Olcott went to Philadelphia, John
mapped out for him the whole secret history of the affair.
Evidence corroborated his story, and thus enabled the
Colonel and H. P. B. to make a complete exposure of the
“ Katie King ” manifestations.
Another account of John King the buccaneer was that
he had lived in the time of Charles ii, and been appointed
Governor of Jamaica, presumably having given up his
piratical career. The Katie King who was said to be this
John’s daughter was named Annie Owens (de) Morgan.
Her account of herself was that she was the daughter of the
1874-1875 : PREPARATION 65
famous buccaneer who suffered death upon the high seas for
piracy. She was about twelve when Charles I was beheaded.
She had married and had two children. She had committed
many crimes, but had died young, at the age of twenty-two
or three. Her consistent statement was that she had been
given the work of convincing the world of Spiritualism, in
order to atone for the past. In the house of the medium,
Florence Cook, London, she was completely at home and
walked freely about. In May 1874 she said good-bye,
affirming that she would not appear again on earth.1 It will
be clear therefore, why H. P. B. not only suspected, but knew,
that the Philadelphia “ Katie King ” was an impostor.
Col. Olcott gave the whole story in his book, People
from the Other World, and this affair and its sequel brought
them both still greater publicity, and plunged them into a sea
of controversy in both the American and European Press.
H. P. B. realised that some would call her an imposter for the
part she played in producing and controlling phenomena ;
but, she prophesied : “ The day will come when posterity
will learn to know me better.” To this she added, “ Master
M. brings orders to form a Society—a secret Society like the
Rosicrucian Lodge. He promises to help.” Evidently
Spiritualism had showed itself as not the most useful way of
1This Florence Cook was the medium who worked with Prof.
William Crookes. The above account is taken from There is no Death, by
Florence Marryat, 1891. She wrote in another book. The Spirit World,
1894, that “ John King" was an old friend of hers . . . He had
expiated his evil life through his dedication to his work in the “ other
world," always working for the good of others. John told her it took a
large number of spirits to make one seance a success. He placed a
circle of them a quarter of a mile wide, with pickets on the outskirts, to
give the alarm when necessary against undesirable intrusion from
malevolent entities. In his Library Col. Olcott had an old bookentitled—
The History o f the Bucaniers o f America ; from their First Original down to this
Time. Written in Dutch by Jo. Esquemeling one of the Bucaniers, and
thence translated into Spanish, etc. Lond. 1699. “John King” phenom­
enally precipitated on the blank leaves preceding the title page, some
doggerel verses, addressed “To my fast friend Harry Olcott.” In these
it is said that though Capt. Morgan buccaneered, yet he knew wrong from
right, never in fight showed his heels, was a good Knight, and, when he
passed away was praised for his virtues. He disguised his famous name
under the title “ John King.”
5
6.6 A SHORT HISTORY.jW'ITWE ;Ti4gtisOR0iCAL SOCIETY
banging ;tpipaastthedesirjedTeaching:to theipubbsnoflsome.-ofi
die.Lgreat! ¿Truths/,-.loir lifoj the aTiiithsjibehindvappferancejsq
fctjRn&riiwab/mahihg heraldidfforts:itb/pbint/obfeithergebuihe>iiti
naodemi .-Spiratu^lismij te> «exposbaiithfeisifrauduientunan^/to
creabeL-a/ibetterrliteraturertondaak wititeitheopkilosophy:i.and
occialtisim;jidij^the bbiaveir^nt^rn-Bw-trrcshelostOQci/ aloneydoc
GoLi.QLcottriJV;as a&Oi®t -hut a tyrotandshe-fhadToiacelpubli-e
¿pinion:cantb cHan^eriitdn^anneddoifcoiyitbJupk;-arscHmeetcd3
pftenLonqhe ione-band- bitterlyii^ardd, hatfdh and^cohdenufJed/
¿bd oh theiofcher.cbkndlK andjfjjanaticfdlyjupheld.!':;ij gnirmiftc
,wynWiiile,btfc:P[<:B8 'Mmsjoa .BhiiadelpHia ,moihe:rwiiifcdr) ofl
1874-5, .onfecofrithQ&esAvho ;:assfetfid;i6 'iharHblhxdai&ffaih wasl
aiiyfa^B.etartttllkiii He -^adaanlirhpottjer’anbnpinessiCitadirig be-
tweeniiluasjaaanjd lihe U/rirtediSidtes. .\fdeNhiadjde@n ihterest\
esde mojGotis^Iicobrajidpbitfceiuierilciie^tQrSisoapdlijhadocvvrilieahl
e^rhssingqhis.'iddaiDe ttoimeetdrloRi BiitaJtalk -qyetvSpiritual«
ishl rwith)jber;jTii Heiadiihirecllihen pjioioundl^sfeiut'jwbehl Hd
pnesentlyisgi^vgnimatijjjnonfially <iiiciihedj rebiberjabuffed: hkm
HisoJderaolikih/.'increasedi-alsQ',bisithTeat3 totaledbis; lifdaf shei
dkibshibT .h c cd ^ to ih isb rip rQ b o saii& tta& fier vHnF.iB. nwedtllito
PMIad^lphiaioitoecaJled—
uponcdierndailyu c:Hfei(decj.aied JM
vpOuidi-adk nothidg (but(-thenpleasuhi ofsnatching;¡ouchhef|
¿md;iwolillbmakemo dlaimitosaibytofit-be(privilegesrofitaeddqd!
life1
;! rFinallyiv'sheulconsfinteid to be.nQiniBallynhisi'Tvifer^^vith
7W:o'U Tfyc,(. -jiVv .stood toriion/; ;n oioiw arid ■lyp.i .lAviir,)/, oonoiol ;i
andHridependent.-as.-everhi So they,_were; r!:tavhutly marrietb’l
/B;iiitl!'thd:'iilisl5,a<
ifd
aril ioI gnisnow ?.vov/ , ,d!tow
immenaeiiqisgusboand they
. ^t id'bhhVbdih^'f^-adkw mbhilk a mf A
i sblb
■i. slaciu-obnu JcriiK”« y/iceBooon nonv; m ieie s/li avia
-b
-_
-!jbiwla» a.hcouldr,not,JeavejBetahelliHat once,;dor.-sha-had
is «
adv.ising.•amputation,bailor./June,.,-vfhen.qiatters.,seemed-idear
h im : -kh'e 'bhe h^ht1
. V
JSl¥d theft
i rrcnn °rnC fV
- bi-i:lIjaetb prl £i>tj)nv ¿ifiiot bj2U
3
iq ?T,v/ yews ooeenq
left Betanelh, though for a time later"qnii$heiiwtas io. utgeridy
1874-1875 : PREPARATION 67
in need that she thought of returning to him. Yet the Masters
did not wish her to do so, and as funds arrived she did not,
for she detested him. It was not until three years later that
he finally sued for divorce on the ground of her desertion.
The summons was served on her in New York ; Mr. Judge
acted as her Counsel, and divorce was granted May 25, 1878.
Col. Olcott had expressed to her his amazement that she
should marry a man twenty years younger than herself, so
much her inferior and with very little means, his business not
being well established. She explained that there was this
temporary link between them which she could not escape,
and it was in the nature of a punishment for her awful pride
and combativeness, which impeded her spiritual evolution,
while no lasting harm was done to the young man.
Despite her illness and this unhappy marriage, H. P. B.
unflaggingly dealt with her large correspondence and pursued
her task of upholding and teaching “ true Spiritualism.” So
far had Col. Olcott progressed in his studies in Occultism
that in January 1875 he was in Boston, lecturing on “ Human
Spirits and Elementaries ” and “ Eastern Magic .and Western
Spiritualism.” In the first lecture he-explained thendifif^reniae
between the “ Spirit " whaofbokiTitilb orlrTo partin Seaiicei,
and the nature^spiritooraEierirefitar30ivjio. tookjaiiconsiderable
part;;:, in-'thersecohd lectbre!Are endeavoured to familiariseithe
jpufedio min^acwith/ithecideavaf'.'Mcrgieilbr.OctullSimj'^anditTfie
difference between it andcWesterin'hiediumistierphenomena.
orb [ EahLyijkiol'875oHv.rPJ B.obpcamerintereste^oin the.Sp/H/ua/
iScientisiyiVa) iniaE .'bright! independent journal ydniihiiehriQssly
icciticiseidjfabusesc.J dtloisasopublished arid.gdifed)layI Eliiaddge
/Gerry ,¡Brawn;; iin.iBoston.noit; iwasorbalisedothatiso rb 3artiof
rjourpaHwiasohfecesstir-jo .\lrhihhicwou1drseientifica1lyi scrutinise
othieo(validity; of¡¿Spiritualistic’ pketiompria;.expound!jtheriphilo-
-sophjo¡which!-so farbitr-had lacked, .and. noMomerely.jrelale
geritheY thsUimaSsoxirf ordinary oimarvdls;’i1
•;and rn miracles!,”
¿0$,J f e ft, m & cd
gifts claimed by so many. Theointentiririijwdsictorjhave.la
6 8 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
paper which would emulate the better class Spiritualistic
journals of Europe and England. H.P.B.’s policy had caused
some of the American journals to refuse to print her articles,
especially one entitled “ Who Fabricates which contained
direct charges against Dr. Child, indicting him as a conspi­
rator with Mr. and Mrs. Holmes. It appeared in the Spiritual
Scientist. Gerry Brown had written appreciatively to H. P. B.
about her defence of the Eddys, against Beard, and sent
her a copy of his paper. She procured other copies, read
them attentively, approved of the tendencies expressed,
and subscribed for the journal at once. She learned that
Brown was well-educated, well-connected, but very poor ;
for, to become a Spiritualist and editor of a spiritualistic paper,
he had quarrelled with his family. “ Brown’s specialty
seemed to be to win his way by fearless criticism of abuses.”
Other journals, whose policy was to praise and uphold
indiscriminatingly all manifestations and bogus communica­
tions, opposed him untiringly and mercilessly. H. P. B,
admired his sacrifices, his struggles and his bravery, and
wanted to help him. Col. Olcott, too, was keen that there
should be a respectable paper to work for the cause they
had at heart. The Master Serapis directed that all three
should work together, for “ the Cause depends on the closest
unity between you three—our Lodge’s chosen Triad.”
Through H. P. B., Gerry Brown was given psychic contact
with some members of “ The Lodge.” 1
H. P. B. began at once to plan how to raise funds for the
journal and to get more subscribers. She and Col. Olcott spent
about $ 1000 altogether in paying off debts to prevent the paper
closing down. To save the situation at a critical moment, money
was sent by “ the Lodge ”through H. P. B. and John King. For
a time the financial position was secure, and all seemed to
be going well. H. P. B. also persuaded men of note, in­
terested in Spiritualism, to write for the Scientist. Among
1The Lodge : this simple title was often used in. the early literature
for the Great Occult Brotherhood.
1874-1875 : PREPARATION 69
these, besides Col. Olcott, were Prof. J. R. Buchanan, a
distinguished anthropologist, whom H. P. B. quotes in Isis
Unveiled, Epes Sargent, a well-known literary man and
author. Charles Sotheran, editor of the Bibliopolist, Dr. G. L.
Ditson, a traveller and linguist, who summarised spiritualistic
information in foreign papers, General Lippitt, and the Hon.
A. Aksakoff (Russia). She tried to persuade Flammarion,
the great astronomer (France) and her friend Prof. Hiram
Corson of Cornell University also to write. She thought
a more experienced editor might be an advantage and
apparently suggested the Colonel, but he asked S700 a
month, and that she saw no way of raising. But he wrote
excellent leaders and articles for it and worked hard to secure
subscribers. The Masters themselves wrote for it, as is seen
in a story called “ The Unsolved Mystery ” (a strange event
that happened in Paris) by the Master Illarion (Hilarion).
This was supported in a subsequent article by a European
pupil of the Master M., who knew the actors in the story.
Further, about this time two Masters, Illarion and another,
passed through Boston. They are described in the Scientist,
as “ Oriental Spiritualists of high rank ” . . . “ and it is
not impossible that they will establish relations with those
whom we regard as the leaders in spiritualistic affairs.” It is
H. P. B.’s note in the SCRAPBOOK. which gives the clue to their
identity. She writes : “ At . . (Atrya) and 111 . . (Illarion)
passed thro’ New York and Boston . . . " She adds that
the Master M. was appearing daily in his astral form (Kama
Rupa)—so important was it to get something launched which
would explain matters, for Spiritualism itself was brushing
too close to its own kind of materialism.
In April 1875, Col. Olcott wrote a circular called
“ Important to Spiritualists.” It pointed out that since the
first ” rappings ” not only had a vast body of Spiritualists
been created, but a large and constantly increasing number
of superior minds were stimulated to a desire and an ability
to grasp the laws which lie behind phenomena. . . The
70 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Spiritual Scientist provided the kind of paper that should have
been established long before—a paper which would give
more space to the discussion of principles, the teaching of
philosophy and the display of conservative critical ability . . .
It was a standing reproach to American Spiritualism that it
taught so few things worthy of a thoughtful man’s attention,
so few of its phenomena occurred under conditions satis­
factory to men of scientific training, and that the propaganda
of its doctrines was in the hands of so many ignorant, if not
positively vicious, persons . . . The books available
were too highly priced to be accessible to the masses who
needed them . . . To lead in the fight with old superstitions
and mouldy creeds a few had united, and had created an
organ to help them . . . They had selected the Spiritual
Scientist and had sought the co-operation of writers whose
names would be a guarantee of brilliant success . . .
Assistance had already been promised.
When the circular was ready to issue, the Colonel asked
H. P. B. if he should send it out anonymously or append
his name. She said it was the wish of the Masters that it
should be signed : “ For the Committee o f Seven, BROTHER­
HOOD OF L u x o r .” She explained that their work was being
supervised by a Committee of seven Adepts belonging to the
Egyptian group of the Great Brotherhood. She pointed out
to him the acrostic made by the initials of the six paragraphs.
It spelt T uiT lT , one of the names of the Egyptian Adept
under whom Col. Olcott was then working. The circular
was forwarded to Brown by direction of three of the Great
Ones, and published by him in the Scientist. There was
much public comment on it, some of it very derisive. It
was looked at askance by the orthodox and described as
a “ New Departure ” ; and Col. Olcott had the bravery to
write to the newspapers saying with regard to the signatories,
that he “ had direct conversation with members of the parent
Eastern Lodge of the Brotherhood of Luxor.” 1
1Scrapbook, iii.
YT3ioos j / j :V
87f^
e<
IQ
7i5 :3preparation 1
h taohs a 21
E>ut5n4 ther,test ofiijl875feHteP:i B.rWorkediverydiialrd for
the jpunjaJ.bi-jBlitlinBEOWTie waszr.a) conVincedobelidvern-iQ
“ Spints,o8
-.an<i'uH.iP^B)BWas^;r3
«rig:to iweanuiway'theipublixi
mind fromrltH©j idea-¡that therejwererYl Spirits:«"oatthe;bhck:df
all phdnQmena;: but: thatcVnbst ^ofribwasdone Hayr“,element
taries ” >making /<usdni©
ferb shells,’•
.1
;and ->
tHht biuch!nobit vpab
delusionrr.Coki Qlcottbtoo;..was writing.onr-tHqseo!Eleme’ntaiy
Spirits." sH«i- wasni viery .caustiHa iii.nhisn fcondemnatiormof
frauds andrtricksrrIwhich- offended=
:marry. oaBgh earljf -1826
Gerry Brown:ihhd.'¡withdrawn from thdinitriangle,Ibandipre}
ferred to gOfhisrbwn. way-arid keeprhistbehefi/irioYSpiritsd’nAs
H. P. B. said, -ihena1might:-
■
hari-e become:rajifidder,,"rbdt:jir-e)
ferred otherwise.rdn!nl!878 .the. journal qeasedorfiublJcation
for lack of adriquatte'SubjporbiriHd^BrawniweritJibanikmptJ'iovo
In the Jurie,^h&75h Spiciitial:Sder3liBicappearedian article
on “ RosicrucihmSm$rn soli ehtidedi becausei H:dPl Bancalied
herself a Rosiqmqiahelil lb iwafcrisignediT Hiraf,”. a JnahQ
made up of theTinitials of iiv.enycning mhnojdfnrthosffiitlseys
there were not >s^cmariy::hnrasem©rits;n dircb mostiseducated
people belonged-
1to ,E{tJirar^ SoaietSesi .This//groupsafofivd
belonged to one stich-dn Bfbofilyn, and ihetjedebatadidts©*}!
imaginable subjecbr jThpyodbcidedOtai iJestrihumamclbdiility
in order “ to contribdtei id irbehavrouristisdjpsychbidgyVnrgo
conceived the idea djrierrdirig an artirile-'to therrtovbimpoitarit
Spiritual Scientist. The nahids. of’th^'fiwWwdre:HirtricksHvins,
Robinson, Adams anddriklosL Faur-obthem jocularly suggdgt^
ed they would, withouticonsulting onebndihdri^hite^fd axbcle
consisting of psychic and esoteric ^sejkenc^whrch'Wer&’
.taqbe
sent to Fales, the genius of the-pariyrithefe conjunctorp~wh8se
duty it was to combine their effortsuhtowctehereribwhciled
, , , , . o yo-icog orb, ",3gbq.J gpoiiojeyTfijOrlj ‘j
1It was one ot this group, Ivins, who, as her lawyer, conducted
H. P. B.’s Long Island suit to >ii^subcer^ful cdnfcludi61i._£K^ns'-^itrd^hat
while this suit was pending Hv R.fi.'WKSbusyhrrSn§ratibg;iiiI'd Rflssitifi
Buckle’s H is t o r y o f C iviliz a tio n a-rid Da'fwin’s O r i g i n df'S'picoi's'-?1'
Hinricks, conducted the suit thatbifr 16901
-Pf.c,P.')Bs brdugHf'agaitiit tne
New York Sun for libel He foroed:a-reffadiioni ahd'.ah^brilogyH^tliS
published in the Sun’s editorial pag'feS/ AlS6',l!somal!mdiiillferi:6f:tfiiy-!ittl8
group attended the preliminary meetingS;i-df;',The'IThfe'osdb^lf:a'li®6,ciet^!
72 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
The article stated that scientific research led to the
generalisation that no force is ever annihilated . . . for the
law of dynamic conservatism embraces the universe. From
the ultimate essence have sprung or evolved the countless
varieties and concatenations of force and matter, all inter­
dependent and all cognate with the unknown centre. The
oriental philosophers taught the same dogma, but in grander
forms . . . Through all ages and in every land there
have been those who saw and wrote in eternal words the
oracles of the infinite . . . Even the blindest are be­
coming conscious that in the history of the human mind
Cabalism, Alchemy and Rosicrucianism have not been
accorded their proper place . . . and ancient Egypt has been
overlooked with rare perversity. They traced the adoption
of a new religion from the East, and shining through it the in­
heritance from the Cabala and the mystic learning of the
Orient . . . The evolution of life is perpetually from the
macrocosm into the microcosm . . . T o him who rises
through study and holiness into higher powers, all mysteries
become unravelled, and new faculties, or new use of old
faculties is given . . . T o the adept the world is first flux
and reflux. Then all is One. One spirit actuates, in manifold
manifestations, the Cosmos, which is but an emanation from
itself . . . (From Memories o f an Active Life, author not given.)
H. P. B. took advantage of this article to write a reply
entitled, “ A Few Questions to Hiraf,” which she called
“ My first Occult Shot,” and said that she wrote it at the
express orders of the Master Serapis. Taking Hiraf’s word
“ Rosicrucianism,” she indicated it to mean the nature and
continued existence for ages past of the Occult Hierarchy,
“ the mysterious Lodge,” the source of Occult tradition, which,
The Bye-Laws were under consideration, and Fales solemnly took part,
making suggestions and amendments in a spirit of fun, and no doubt
making them simpler and less mysterious. H. P. B. looked on. The
“ Hiraf ” article was quoted far and wide, even long afterwards, and it
was agreed that perhaps the light-hearted authors wrote more wisely and
prophetically than they knew. As recently as 1923 Hinricks, the last of
the group, wrote to Mr. Jinarajadasa on the above matters.
1874-1875 : PREPARATION 73
in the East, passed from age to age in the Secret Schools,
where only Initiation could give entry to the Neophyte after
due tests and trials. She outlined the philosophy of Occult­
ism and the ideas on Cosmogony it represented. Then she
said, “ Religion and sciences, laws and customs, all of these
are closely related to Occultism, and are but its results . . .
disguised by the hand of time . . She designated the
kind of “ true Spiritualism ” for which she stood as the
4
1purest of the children of Ancient Magic,” and indicated
that all who had witnessed a real materialisation had be­
come unwittingly the “ initiated neophytes of the Ancient
Mystery ; for each and all of them have solved the problem
of Death, have ‘ lifted the veil of Isis
This article brought H. P. B. a still larger correspond­
ence, and it marks the opening of her work as a teacher. It
contained an outline of the great flood of noble litera­
ture which The Theosophical Society has since sponsored
into the world.
Early in May Col. Olcott wrote to the New York Graphic
•complaining that the review of his book, People from the Other
World, gave a false impression as to the severity of the
tests ” and safeguards he imposed on mediums. The
large sale of his book had proved the continued interest in
materialisations, while “ before long things will occur that
will raise excitement to fever heat. A ‘ Miracle Club ’ is be­
ing formed by some of the best of our citizens, who have
•secured the attendance of a gentleman in whose presence
every wonder of Modern Spiritualism occurs in the light.”
The door was to be closed to all save members, and even
the place of meeting was not to be divulged. The medium
was to be David Dana, brother of Charles A. Dana,1
editor of the New York Sun. David had been visiting
H. P. B. frequently, and she hoped he would assist them
in the Club, which was started with the Colonel as organiser.
They received applications daily from those wishing to
1The same whom H. P. B. sued for libel in 1890.
74 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
join, but only a few were selected, as they desired the
Club should be composed of men of such “ scientific
and other attainments as shall afford the public a perfect
guarantee of the trustworthiness of any conclusions that may
be reached.” Gerry Brown was to publish the results in the
Scientist, to which journal H. P. B. was to contribute, at the
same time, translations from the Russian of the results of
seances held in St. Petersburgh by Prof. Wagner and two
other eminent professors, with a French medium. To the
cutting in the SCRAPBOOK. about the Club, H. P. B. added
“ An attempt in consequence of orders received from T . . .
B . . .” (Tuitit Bey). The medium proved to be penniless
and in business difficulties. H. P. B. immediately pawned
her long gold chain and gave him the proceeds.1 But he
failed them altogether, and was reported to have spread
calumnies against her. So the Miracle Club came to nothing,
even though the Master Serapis in his first letter to
Col. Olcott said, “ don’t give up thy club. Tr y .”
In the June Spiritual Scientist appeared a “ Notice to
Mediums,” over the signatures of H. P. Blavatsky and H. S.
Olcott, asking for applications from “ physical mediums ”
willing to go to Russia for examination before a Committee
of the imperial University. Conditions were laid down.
Gerry Brown was authorised to receive personal applications
from mediums in the New England States.
Many applications were received and some tested ; but
private mediums refused to subject themselves to publicity
and annoyance. So choice had to be made from among the
professionals. The remarkable phenomena occurring with
some of those tested were reported throughout America
and Europe, and also those done by H. P. B. herself.
Though Dr. Henry Slade at first refused to go, he finally
consented to do so in 1876, after his powers had been
1Someone redeemed the chain. In Adyar, at the Ninth Annual Con­
vention (1884), a subscription was started to create a Permanent Fund ;
H. P. B. put up her chain at private auction. It was bought by Mr. E. D.
Ezekiel and the money handed over to the Treasurer.
1874-1875 : PREPARATION 75
submitted to the scrutiny of a special committee of The Theo-
sophical Society, which had been formed by that time, and
which certified to Aksakoff its belief in his genuineness.
Another great task undei’taken in this summer was the
beginning of the book, Isis Unveiled. One day H.P.B. show­
ed the Colonel some sheets of writing and told him she had
written them “ by order,” but what it was to be she did not
yet know. She put the manuscript away and nothing more
was done about it for some time.
H. P. B. was now settled in New York, the centre of all
these pioneering efforts, and working tirelessly to try to bring
about the creation of the nucleus of students who were needed
for the Masters’ work. Then came a further direction : “ Orders
received from India direct to establish a philosophico-religious
Society and choose a name for it—also to choose Olcott,
July, 1875.” So wrote H. P. B. in the SCRAPBOOK.
The special point to note here is, of course, the use of the
words “ philosophico-religious.” The new effort was not to
be “ Spiritualistic,” in the usually accepted meaning of the
word. Phenomena were not included ; and it was a cause
of complaint from the Colonel that H.P.B. obstinately, he
thought, refused to show any in the months following Felt s
defection.
In his editorials in the Scientist Col. Olcott summed up
the position of the moment and welcomed the Spiritualistic
crisis, for he said all these things had been foretold them.
There was a way out, and they had somehow to find it.
T H E T H E O SO P H IC A L S O C IE T Y
1875—1878
“The objects of the Society are, to collect and diffuse a knowledge
of the laws which govern the universe.”
—B y e - l a w s o f T h e T h e o s o p h i c a l S o c i e t y , 1878.
“ Our Theosophical Society is the Great Republic of Consci­
ence . . . ” •
—H. P. B. 1881.
“ Had the formation of The Theosophical Society been postponed
a few years longer, one half of the civilized nations would have become
by this time rank materialists and the other half anthropomorphists and
phenomenalists.”
—H. P. Blavatsky in T h e K e y to T h e o s o p h y , 1889.
A t the time of the formation of The Theosophical Society,
H. P. B. was living at 46, Irving Place, New York. Here she
was eagerly sought out by those interested in the occult and
attracted by her remarkable personality, in the courageous
challenge she flung at scientific materialism, and in the stand
she made for the “ science of ancient and proved Magic.” 1
On 7 Sept., 1875, Mr. George H. Felt, an engineer and
architect, gave a highly instructive lecture on “ The Lost
Canon of Proportion of the Egyptians,” to about seventeen
people gathered in H.P.B.’s rooms. Felt showed how, upon
a certain temple wall, a “ Star of Perfection ” could be inscrib­
ed, within which the whole secret of geometrical proportion
would be read, and the hieroglyphics outside the star were
mere blinds to deceive the curiosity-seeker. The “ Star of
1H. P. B used the word Magic as a substitute for both Occultism and
Theosophy, neither of which meant anythirg to the public at that time.
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 77
Perfection ” consisted of a circle, with a square within and
without, containing a common triangle, two Egyptian triangles
and a pentagon. This diagram not only unlocked the secrets
of the Kabala, but when applied to ancient Egyptian archi­
tecture as well as to the Greek, showed how all masterpieces
of both were constructed, even the statues. In musicr
in prismatic colours, in the configuration of leaves, and
in the world’s circumference, he found the same law of propor­
tional harmony. This diagram, applied to the Egyptian
table of hieroglyphics, indicated the parts to be read, and re­
vealed startling correspondences. He applied it also to the
Mosaic account of creation and the story of Eden, and show­
ed here also the correspondences, all pointing to a common
knowledge in the Kabalistic schools of the long past. Felt had.
found that the Egyptian priests were adepts in magical
science, and had the power to evoke and employ the spirits of
the elements. They had left formularies on record, which he
had deciphered and put successfully to the test. He held
that the almost uncouth figures of Egyptian temples were not
mythical, but representations of actual forms seen by the
“ spirits ” of the old Egyptians. He declared that he could,
by following out certain formulae discovered in Egypt, trans­
late or transform his mind into another or different state, so
that he too might see the figures.
An animated discussion followed, during which the idea
occurred to Col. Olcott “ that it would be a good thing to
form a Society to pursue and promote such occult research.”
He passed a note to H.P.B,, who agreed.1 He then spoke
of the philosophic character of ancient Theosophies and their
sufficiency to reconcile all existing antagonism, and of
Mr. Felt’s achievement in extracting the Key to the architec­
ture of Nature from the scanty fragments of ancient lore.
1Mrs. Besant remarks in L u c ife r , April 1895, p. 105 : “ She [H.P.B.]
has told me herself how her Master bade her found it, and how at His
bidding she wrote the suggestion of starting it on a slip of paper and gave
it to W. Q. Judge to pass to Col. Olcott, and then the Society had its first
beginning . . .
7 8 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
He proposed to form a society for the investigation of science
and religion ; the society to be entirely eclectic, the friend of
true religion and the enemy of scientific materialism. It
would be a nucleus around which might gather those willing
to work together to organise a society of occultists, begin to
collect a library, and to diffuse information concerning those
secret laws of nature which were so familiar to the Chaldeans
and Egyptians, but were unknown to the modern world of
science. Mr. Felt was to teach the right kind of person how
to evoke and control the elementáis. It was unanimously
agreed that a society be formed for the study and elucidation
of Occultism, the Kabala, etc. It should be free from the
least sectarian character and be unquestionably anti-material-
istic. Mr. W. Q. Judge proposed Col. Olcott as chairman,
and the Colonel proposed Mr. Judge as Secretary.
On 8 Sept., at the adjourned meeting, Col. Olcott was
elected as Chairman and Mr. Judge as Secretary. From
among those present the following sixteen handed in
their names as willing to form and belong to such a
Society : Mde. H. P. Blavatsky, Col. H. S. Olcott, Charles
Sotheran, Dr. Charles E. Simmons, H. D. Monachesi, C. C.
Massey (Lond.), W. L. Alden, G. H. Felt, D. E. de Lara,
Dr. \V. Britten, Henry J. Newton, John Storer Cobb, J. Hys-
lop, W. Q. Judge, Mrs. E. H. Britten H. M. Stevens.1
Col. Olcott afterwards reserved the word " Founders ”
for those who worked hard and self-sacrificingly through.the
years to lay The Society’s foundations, amL.described:csss
"formers” (sometimes " institutorsA by HerP.rBj)-those wiHo
gave in their names .afcithis imeetings:but:fopomtrireasbn¡or
another ceaset^ fcO
rBe ^cíhreí-.orlfcesigóiedociGnly) H¿;Irk>Biiftr£d
-Golnr.Gleott cr'emaihedj toktheiendni jjudge;/after;yealrs iof.-fMe
.wofkfi secedéd fromr: The Societyodi yean1before/lhik> p asS -
o f. “ Founders ” .usually
i ¡¡¡qz-j
c T z-¡f7i • J
;:Hvo(S.i!¿Olcott-TT-Á-vJlOsertl
1For what became of them see Appendix i. . . gninnigad
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 79
arose about the “ Founders,” some saying that H. P. B. alone
founded The Society. Col. Olcott quotes her letter to the Hon.
J. L. O’Sullivan in which she says he “ without a shadow o f
Warrant o f fact credits me with the foundation o f the The Theo-
sophical Society and its Branches."' Col. Olcott interprets this
to mean the foundation of The Society during these early
meetings. But after careful consideration of the information
available, it would appear that H. P. B. meant that the real
Founders of the Society were the Masters, Who instigated its
formation, and spoke of Themselves as members of the
“ Parent Society,” and not herself, agent though she declared
herself to be of Their plans. She did of course at times assist
in the formation of Branches, though for that part of the work
the credit goes almost entirely to the Colonel.
Newton, Stevens and Sotheran, with the Chairman,
were appointed to draft a Constitution and Bye-laws,
and to report on them on 13 Sept. At this meeting
Felt further described his discoveries. Then business was
taken up, with Col. Olcott in the Chair and Sotheran as Secre­
tary. The Committee on Preamble and Bye-laws made its
report. It was resolved that the name of the proposed
Societj' be T h e T h e o so ph ic a l S o cie ty . It was agreed that
this title “ both expressed the esoteric truth they wished to
¿each and covered the ground of Felt’s methods of occult
research.” The Rev. Mr. Wiggin and Mr. Sotheran were
appointed to select suitable meeting rooms, several new
¿neinbers were nominated and their names added as founders.
iOje-.The formation of The Theosophical Society had been
much commented upon, and in response to many correspond-
dntsoiH. P. B. wrote through the Spiritual Scientist of 23 Sept,
b'Ann-Open Letter such as Few can Write ”—as the editor
said! nln this she spoke even more clearly about Occultism,
hndidjhe difficulty of becoming a practical Occultist. She
knew! :,nthat Magic does exist . . . that there ia.a^whitS
Magic and a black Magic . . . thatotheisfrii© iMagio
1S p iritu a list, March 22, 1878. Also O l d D ia r y . ¡L'aaiws,M A’iirptSI37.
80 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
exists and has existed ever since prehistoric ages. In India
this Magic never dies out.
The first meeting under the name “ The Theosophical
Society ” was called by Henry S. Olcott, President pro tern.,
for 16 Oct. in the spacious drawing-rooms of Mrs. Emma
Hardinge Britten, the widely known Spiritualist. It was
announced that the Bye-laws were ready, and that Mr. Felt,
if in town, would continue his Egyptological lectures, also'
that the officers would be elected. Col. Olcott was in the
Chair and J. S. Cobb acted as Secretary. After discussion
and various alterations, the Bye-laws were adopted.
After this meeting H. P. B. left for Ithaca to stay with
her friends Prof, and Mrs. Corson. Here she went on with
her incessant writing—articles for the press, for the Spiritual
Scientist and especially for the Russian papers, by means of
which she earned her living. She was as well preparing the
material for the book called Isis Unveiled. Added to all this
was her immense correspondence. To each correspondent
she wrote at length on questions asked or points raised. One
correspondent was a brilliant English writer and well-known
medium, the Rev. Wm. Stainton Moseyn (Moses), who
developed remarkable psychic gifts. He wrote under the
pen-name of “ M. A. (Oxon.).” His “ spirit guide ” he knew
as “ Imperator,” and there seems little doubt that the real
Imperator was the great Elder Brother, the Master Jesus, for
whom Moses had the profoundest devotion, but whose
identity as “ Guide ” he doubted, because of the likelihood of
impersonation, and his own tendency to confuse Imperator
with the vision of his own higher Self. The training of Stainton
Moses was part of a larger plan for “ the manifestation of
occult philosophy to the world.” This training was entrusted
to H. P. B., who from time to time appeared to him in Lon­
don, while she was living in the United States.1 He joined
the young Society, and though he resigned later on, he re­
mained a friend of the Founders.
1Stainton Moses’ Letters to H. P. B.
THE THEOSOPHICAI. SOCIETY 81
During H. P. B.’s absence at Ithaca, Col. Olcott was
delivering lectures in New York, launching out against
Spiritualism and upholding the new Theosophical doctrine.
H. P. B. returned to New York in time for the next meeting
of The Theosophical Society, which was held at the same
place on 30 Oct. At this meeting the Mott Memorial Hall,
64, Madison Avenue, was selected^as The Society’s meeting
place. It was near to the recently purchased New York
Headquarters in 47th Street, into which H. P. B. and the
Colonel presently moved, and remained there until they left
for India. The Bye-laws were finally adopted, and the
Preamble was to be further revised by H. S. Olcott, C.
Sotheran and J. S. Cobb. In this finished Preamble it
is said :
“ The Title of the Theosophical Society explains the objects and
desires of its founders : they ‘ seek to obtain knowledge of the nature
and attributes of the Supreme Power, and of the higher spirits b y t h e a i d
o f p h y s i c a l p r o c e s s e s ,’ In other words, they hope, that by going deeper
than modern science has hitherto done, into the esoteric philosophies of
ancient times, they may be enabled to obtain, for themselves and other
investigators, proof of the existence of an ‘ Unseen Universe,’ the nature
of its inhabitants if such there be, and the laws which govern them and
their relations with mankind. Whatever may be the private opinions of
its members, the society has no dogmas to enforce, no creed to dissemin­
ate. It is formed neither as a Spiritualistic schism, nor to serve as the
foe or friend of any sectarian or philosophic body. Its only axiom is the
omnipotence of truth, its only creed a profession of unqualified devotion
to its discovery and propaganda. In considering the qualifications of
applicants for membership, it knows neither race, sex, colour, country
nor creed. . . .”
The Preamble ended with these words :
“The Theosophical Society, disclaiming all pretension to the pos­
session of unusual advantages, all selfish motives, all disposition to foster
deception of any sort, all intention to wilfully and causelessly injure any
established organization, invites fraternal co-operation ofsuch as can real­
ize the importance of its field of labour ; and are in sympathy with the
objects for which it has been organized.”
The “ Objects ” of The Society were very simply stated
as being “ to collect and diffuse a knowledge of the laws
which govern the universe.”
To these ideals of freedom of thought and opinion The
Society clung tenaciously, as will be seen. Col. Olcott was
6
82 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
ever mindful of this promise to the world, guarded it jealously
and made it his guiding principle in his organisation of The
Society, and each President has in turn guarded it with equal
care from all tendencies to limitation or dogmatism. Also,
the principle of Brotherhood, implicitly expressed at the end
of the first paragraph, soon became the strongest and most
vitalising power and remains the dominating Object of The
Society’s work.
The election for Office resulted as follows :
President, H eNRY S. Olcott ; Vice-Presidents, Dr. S.
PANCOAST and G. H. Felt ; Corresponding Secretary, M me.
H. P. BlavaTSKY ; Recording Secretary, JOHN STORER Cobb ;
Treasurer, H enry J. Newton, Librarian, Charles Sother-
an ; Councillors, R ev. J. H. W iggin, (Judge) R. B. W est­
brook, L.L.D., Mrs. Emma H ardinge Britten, C. E. S im­
mons, M. D., and H erbert D. M onaCHESI ; Counsel to the
Society, W illiam Q. J udge.1
On 17 November The Society met at Mott Memorial
Hall, and the President delivered his Inaugural Address.
This completed the organisation of The Society and Col.
Olcott chose this date as its birthday.
The Preamble, Rules, (under date of 30 Oct. 1875) and
Inaugural Address were published. In this Address
the Colonel said prophetically : “ in the coming time it
is inevitable that the birth of this society of ours must
be considered a factor in the problem which the historian will
be required to solve." Since the days when the Neo-
Platonists and theurgists of Alexandria were scattered by
Christianity this was the first revival of a study of Theosophy.
He then promised that through his discoveries Mr. Felt
would, by simple chemical appliances, exhibit “ the races of
beings which, invisible to our eyes, people the elements,” and
the name of The Theosophical Society would hold its place in
history as the first to exhibit these “ Elementary Spirits ”—and
thus astound the churches, the unimaginative academies of
1For what became of them—
see Appendix i.
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 83
of science, the materialists and the “ shade ” ridden spiritual­
ists. Written in the SCRAPBOOK. is one of H. P. B.’s shrewd
comments to the effect that these were rash statements—it
was “ counting the price of the bear’s skin before the
beast is slain.” The Colonel admitted afterwards that
though there was much in his Address that came true,
“ yet it reads a bit foolish after seventeen years of hard
experience.”
These statements the Press praised, criticised, condemn­
ed or ridiculed. The Spiritualistic journals were critical, for
H. P. B. had already considerably alarmed and offended
them b}'- her attacks upon frauds, and her scorn of the mass
of humbugging and fabrication that went on.
The next meeting of The Society was on 15 Dec. They
counted on Felt’s demonstration of the existence of “ Ele­
mental races ” through properly organised scientific physical
processes. So important seemed Felt’s declaration of the
piactical results of his experiments, that W. J. Bouton, the
Philadelphia publisher, was prepared to risk bringing out a
book embodying Felt’s researches. Newton, the Treasurer,
gave Felt an initial $100 to defray the cost of preparation and
experiment. But time went on and Felt failed to give his
promised talks, thus arousing considerable resentment and
scepticism, for H. P. B. had borne testimony that he had
shown before a dozen witnesses the unseen creatures around
us, made visible in the chemically produced clear atmosphere.
In the untried Society difficulties soon began to arise.
Sotheran was a keen and eager member, but was a some­
what emotional and unbalanced character and not very
discreet, for he discussed or belittled openly what went
on in The Society, which, apparently, had agreed that no
public mention should be made of their meetings. When
checked, he grew annoyed and began to abuse H. P. B.
He resigned. He wrote, 15 Jan., to the Banner o f Light, a not
very friendly Spiritualistic paper, that he considered it his
duty to recommend his acquaintances not to join The Society.
84 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
H. P. B.’s marginal comments in the SCRAPBOOK are : “ Till
the row with Sotheran the Society was not a secret one
. . . But he began to revile our experiments and
denounce us to Spiritualists and impede the Society’s
progress and it was found necessary to make it secret.” Col.
Olcott wrote to the papers explaining that their experiences
with “ a certain person ” had been such as to forfeit his right
of recognition. This lesson they meant to profit by. They
were considering a proposition to form themselves into a
secret society so that they might pursue their studies
uninterrupted . . .
At the meeting of 12 Jan., 1876, H. J. Newton was
appointed to fill Sotheran’s place as Librarian, and Judge
was invited to join the Council. The Recording Secretary
was ordered to lay before the next regular meeting the
following resolution for adoption : “ That in future this
Society adopt the principle of secrecy in connection with its
proceedings and transactions, and that a Committee be
appointed to draw up and report upon details necessary to
give effect to such a change.’’
After about six months Sotheran humbly begged
H. P. B.’s pardon and asked to be taken again into The
Society. He proved very helpful during the time she was
writing Isis Unveiled.
Having decided upon secrecy, the next step was to have
signs and passwords. At a Council meeting it was decided,
on H. P. Blavatsky’s motion :
“ That the Society adopt one or more signs of recogni­
tion, to be used among the Fellows of the Society for
admission to the meetings.”
H. P. B. and two others were appointed to invent and
recommend signs. The seal of The Society was partly
designed after one that H. P. B. had had composed for her,
and was beautifully engraved. To this was added, in 1880,
the family motto of the Maharaja of Benares—“ There is no
Religion higher than Truth.” Later, Col. Olcott, Judge,
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 85
and others, sketched a badge of membership, consisting of a
serpent coiled about an Egyptian Tau. But, as the Colonel
pointed out, what little secrecy there was in The Society in
those early days, soon passed away. It was only in 1888,
with the formation of the “ Esoteric Section of The Theo-
sophical Society," that it was reimposed, and in that body
only.
In January Col. Olcott published in the newspapers
what he called his “ belief.” His nine points (abbreviated)
are worth noting and reveal the trend of the discussions
taking place in the now secret meetings. They were :
1. The existence of an eternal Cause, Source of all things.
2. The doctrine of Evolution—and that it applies to both Spirit
and Matter.
3. In the course of the Evolution of man, successive forms of
spiritual entities were brought into existence.
4. After the death of the physical body man’s spirit survives and
under favouring conditions can communicate . .
3. The human mind can control the occult forces of Nature and
subjugate all spiritual beings lower than himself.
6. He regarded Modern Spiritualism as sporadic phenomena,
which cannot be controlled, and of which more investigation
is necessary ; but even under such conditions disembodied
spirits are often drawn into communication with us.
7. Regarded Mesmerismand Spiritualism as portions ofthe broader
demonstrable science of Magic—practised for ages in the
Orient.
8. Believed in forces of Animal Magnetism—psychic and spirit­
ual force are all manifestations of the same force, Ether ;
the vibrations being also known as light, heat, electricity
and chemical action.
9. Cabalists have the means of distinguishing between lower
forms appearing in the guise of those called dead, and
human spirits appearing in materialised forms.
Appended to one of the cuttings of this “ belief ” pasted
into S c r a pb o o k i is H. P. B.’s remark, “ Nota Bene : This
is Col. Olcott’s personal belief and has nothing to do with the
belief of the Theosophists.” H. P. B. felt very keenly about
this freedom of thought ; and since Col. Olcott was writing
on Theosophy and The Theosophical Society in news­
papers and journals, she wrote to the Spiritual Scientist saying
8 6 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
she wished “ to unhook ” her name from that of Col. Olcott,
and declared “ he is not responsible for my views, nor I
for his.”
In this month Col. Olcott went to lecture in Boston. It
was said of him that in his capacity as President of The
Theosophical Society, “ he stands as the exponent and
defender of the doctrines and theories of ‘ Occultism ’, ‘ White
Magic ’ and ‘ Elementary Spirits His subjects were
“ Human Spirits and Elementaries ” and “ Eastern Magic
and Western Spiritualism.”
Col. Olcott wrote to the London Spiritualist : “ A
few of us in this country have organised The Theosophical
Society for the express purpose of looking into the science
which, so far as we can discover, is alone competent to afford
us this desired knowledge ”—which was how to control the
currents of Universal Ether.
The alarmists in the Spiritualist ranks were already out
against The Society, warning against the dread horrors
threatened by the “ witch work, and diabolical pastime ’’ of
these inhuman “ Elementaries," and awaited with anxiety
the necessary evidence about them.
The first public activity undertaken by The Society was
in connection with a member named Baron de Palm. He
was born at Augsberg, Bavaria, and migrated late in life to
America. In December 1875 he had come to New York
with an introduction to Col. Olcott. He professed great
interest in Spiritualism, and a wish to learn something about
the Oriental theories which The Society was advocating.
The Baron joined The Society and, as the Rev. Wiggin had
already resigned, he was elected to the Council in March
1876. He complained of ill-health, and of having no-one to
look after him ; so the Colonel invited him to occupy a room
in his own apartment. Here he presently fell so ill that
Mr. Judge was asked to draw up his will. He made The
Society his residuary legatee, with Olcott and Newton as his
executors. As he grew worse he was removed under medical
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 87
advice to a hospital, where he died. He had requested
that no priest should officiate at his funeral, and asked the
Colonel to perform the last offices for him in an Eastern
fashion, and wished his body to be cremated, if possible.
Cremation, as a means of disposal of the dead, was then
being only tentatively discussed. It had never been done in
America. The Colonel enrolled himself as a member of a
group calling itself the New York Cremation Society, which
had been formed in April 1874, but had done nothing. Here
was the opportunity to inaugurate the reform. After the
public funeral of the Baron, his body was to be cremated by
this Society. Meanwhile H. P. B., the Colonel and others
bestirred themselves to organise an impressive “ Pagan
Funeral ”—as the Press called it. They composed a litany,
devised a ceremony, wrote a couple of Orphic hymns,
and set them to appropriate music. The Press made such
an outcry and poured such ridicule upon the whole project
that the Cremation Society weakly refused to have anything
to do with it. The attacks upon The Theosophical Society
were quite fierce. The Colonel undertook the whole respons­
ibility. A vast hall holding 2000 was placed at their disposal,
and into it on the day appointed burst an intensely interested
crowd. After the opening hymn and invocation, the
Colonel made a speech, first about the Baron (very
misleading, he found afterwards) and then explaining the
nature of The Theosophical Society. “ The Society ” he
said, “ was neither a religious nor a charitable but a
scientific body. Its object was to enquire, not to teach,
and its members comprised men of various creeds and
beliefs. ‘ Theology ’ meant the revealed will of God,
‘ Theosophy ’ the direct knowledge of ‘ God.’ The one
asked us to believe what someone else had heard, the other
told us to see and hear for ourselves. Theosophy taught
that by cultivation of his powers a man may be inwardly
illumined and get thereby a knowledge of his god-like
faculties.” After this meeting the body had to be preserved
88 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
till cremation could be arranged for. This was done in early
June, and in the same month The Society passed a resolution
confirming all that had been done by the officers in regard
to this funeral ; and empowered them to do all that was
necessary to dispose of the remains of the Baron according
to his wishes.
To investigate the Baron’s estate was the next step.
On opening his trunks very little was found, except two
of the Colonel’s own shirts with the stitched name-mark
picked out. There were no manuscripts. He had no literary
tastes. He read little ; he wrote nothing.1 The Press
had spread extravagant rumours about the large fortune
in property in Europe and America, as well as money,
Col. Olcott was to inherit from the Baron. It was found
that the whole estate would scarcely pay for probate
and funeral, though a small sum in mining shares was
realised in 1878. The cremation did not take place till
December, and was carried out at the small town of Wash­
ington, Penn., where a physician had erected a crematorium
in which to have his own body cremated when the time
came. After much trouble and publicity, the cremation took
place on 8 Dec. in the presence of many witnesses. One
paper remarked drily that the “ Baron de Palm had been
principally famous as a corpse.”
It would seem as if the real significance of the whole
affair lay in the fact that it was The Society’s first trial of
its willingness and courage as a body to face public opinion
and institute a reform in convention, despite keen ridicule
and strong opposition from every sort of orthodoxy.
Because of the part he played in this funeral, until he left
the country and even afterwards, the Colonel was dubbed
“ Hierophant Olcott.” Financially, he paid heavily for his
courage in carrying it through. From this time forward, and
as he became more immersed in The Society’s work, he
1This is to be noted because of the calumny of 1890 against
H. P. B. published in the N ew Y ork S u n
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 89
gradually lost his worldly position ; both he and H. P. B.
were often hard put to it to find enough for their needs.
When the need was most pressing the Master would come
to their aid.
On 4 April, J. S. Cobb, under instruction from the
Council, issued a note stating that Mr. Vice-President Felt
was prepared to deliver the series of lectures The Society
had so long anticipated. They were to begin on 19 April.
This communication was to be treated as confidential, in
accordance with the observance of secrecy now in force. Felt
gave as titles of his lectures : (1) A Demonstration that the
Universe is constructed upon strictly Geometric Principles ;
with Illustrations of the Vegetable, Chromatic, Harmonic and
Astronomic Laws. (2) The Applications of the Law ta
Egyptian, Greek, Roman and Hebraic constructions (Temples,
statues, etc.). (3) Practical experiments in Electricity and
Chemistry, to demonstrate the Egyptian Philosophy of Evo­
lution, etc. (4) Philosophic Experiments relating to their
Spiritualistic Beliefs, Incarnations, etc.
The first lecture was given, but it was not until June
that Mr. Felt delivered the second. After that he again
failed them. In October Judge was instructed as The
Society’s Counsel to demand that he fulfil his obligation.
He did not do so, and before very long went out of The
Society. Those who had expected much of him also went
out, and left the few to carry on as best they might. The
few, however, were determined not to be disheartened by
these failures, and turned their attention to finding out all
they could about the constitution of man, his intelligence, his
mind, his will, and his place in nature. They tested me­
diums, tried experiments in psychometry, thought-reading and
mesmerism, and wrote and listened to papers. They were
secretly discouraged by Felt’s fiasco, but there seemed to be
no substitute. They had also counted upon H. P. B. to
display her powers, but she refused to do the slightest
phenomenon at their meetings, and this proved a further
90 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
discouragement to some. Then came the idea of bringing a
Fakir from India to America, but this soon proved impractica­
ble, to the regret of those who would have been glad to
see feats done which had been frequently described by
H. P. B.
Colonel Olcott’s sister, Mrs. Belle Mitchell, took up
residence with them in their flat, which they called “ the
Lamasery.” The chief room, in which they worked, dined,
received and kept their library, was certainly unusual, and
was much written up in the Press.1 Here H. P. B.’s per­
sonality was the magnet. Everyone hoped to see some of
the phenomena for which she was famous, and she often
satisfied curiosity in this matter. One evening she asked
the Colonel to lend her the large signet intaglio he was
wearing as a scarf-ring. She took it between her hands and
when she opened them there were two rings, but the second
was of a different pattern, though equally large. The seal
tablet was of green bloodstone, whereas the Colonel’s was
of red carnelian. This bloodstone was broken on the voyage
to India, so a new one was engraved and set in Bombay.
H. P. B. wore this ring till she passed away. It was then
handed on to Dr. Annie Besant, and is now worn by Dr.
G. S. Arundale.
A few meetings of The Society were held, but by the
•end of the year these had ceased, and the hired room in Mott
Memorial Hall was given up. Fees were abolished, the
Bye-laws became inoperative, and the maintenance of what­
ever cost there was to The Society fell entirely upon H. P. B.
and Col. Olcott. They were often made fun of, which they
did not mind. Sometimes they were libelled, and demanded
and won retraction. But they were determined to carry on,
for they were dedicated whole-heartedly to the Ideals put
before them.
Though there was so little public activity of The Society
•as such, yet the literary output of H. P. B. and Col. Olcott,
1See O ld D ia r y L ca u es, Vol. I, p. 240, e l seq .
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 91
in The Society’s name, commanded respect. A corres­
pondent writing to The Standard, London, in August of this
year, though confusing it with Spiritualism, said it was the
one movement in America free of the prevailing difficulties.
Col. Olcott took this opportunity of declaring that he was not
a Spiritualist but a student of Occultism in its various depart­
ments, and that The Theosophical Society had no official
concern with the morals or fortunes of the “ great body of
Spiritualists of New York,—among them many thousands
of as moral and otherwise excellent persons as can be found
in any religious sect.” But he had stood against the danger­
ous doctrines of the shameless few. As to The Society being
identified with Spiritualism he pointed out that Spiritualists
feared he would wipe out the old order of things with the
sponge of occultism. He challenged any aspersion upon
The Theosophical Society, and was prepared to defend it in a
court of justice.
H. P. B. and Col. Olcott had at this time the consolation
and privilege of being in almost daily intercourse with the
Masters. This was because of the writing of Isis Unveiled,
which was H. P. B.’s chief occupation. She worked at it with
tireless drudgery from morning till far into the night. Some­
times she would not leave her apartment for weeks at a stretch.
During the day Col. Olcott still had his professional duties to
attend to, but in the evenings they settled down to their big
writing table and worked for many hours. H. P. B. did not
work on a fixed plan, but ideas came streaming through her
mind.1
] Years afterwards Bishop C. W. Leadbeater gave a most lucid
explanation of how much of this is done : The Person who undertook
the work would not give words and commas- He would offer to the
Ego of the pupil a concept which, when passed b y th a t E g o into his lower
mind would burst out into a mass of ideas, which would clothe them­
selves in language. But the ideas would not be the original concept, but
the ego’s c o n c e p tio n of that concept ; the words would not even be directly
the ego's own choice, for he does not concern himself with words. He
does not use such things ; they are not his language. They would be
the mind’s expression of what he wanted to say, but they could never be
a perfect expression . . . there has never been any such thing as
92 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
As part of his training H. P. B. would ask the Colonel to
write about some special subject. If it did not suit her he
would have to do it again. He often wrote paragraphs for
her embodying her own ideas, for she could not at that time
always write to her own liking in English. Pie helped her
also to find quotations. If among the visitors who beseiged
her there were any who had some special knowledge cognate
to her work, H. P. B. would draw him out or persuade him to
write his views for insertion in the book. She could in return
illumine the studies of the most erudite with her knowledge,
“ quite as much as she dazzled all present by her eloquence
and delighted them by her wit and humorous raillery.” Of
a few books she made great use and consulted about a
hundred in all, though it would seem from Isis that she had
a vast library at her disposal.
When several months of work had produced nearly 900
pages of manuscript, H. P. B. asked if the Colonel would
agree to start all over again to please a great Master. This
was the “ order ” to write Isis Unveiled, as the book came to
be entitled. Hitherto the whole effort had been tentative and
the preparation of the material without much coherence or
definiteness. At first he was shocked to find all the
work was to be done over again, but he consented. With
infinite patience they set to work and Col. Olcott felt he was
greatly rewarded. Principles were explained to him as they
went along, illustrations were given of phenomena, contact
was made with several of the Elder Brethren ; and in many
ways he was prepared for the later public work of which he
had then no intimation, nor any inkling of the storms and
crises through which The Society would pass in its pioneer­
ing work. He learnt how complicated and inexplicable
was the nature of H. P. B., the channel in so many ways of
the Adepts to whom she had dedicated her life ; how
verbal inspiration as it is ordinarily understood—and this in spite of the
fact that it often seems to the recipient as though some one stood by and
dictated every word. (Bishop Leadbeater’s Letters to Dr. Besant,
August, 190S.)
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 93
exhaustless were the sources of the knowledge that They
could pour through her into the world, according to its need ;
and how powerfully They affect the course of events. It
was during their close companionship at this time that
Col. Olcott was able to observe how H. P. B. was so
fully at the service of the Elder Brethren. A study of
their Diary for 1878, in which both made entries, shows
how valuable a document it is in which to examine and
to realise that there were, as H. P. B. herself indicated,
two distinct principles in her, not persons, for they were two
modes of her own consciousness, using the same physical
body. One was the brave, rebellious, H. P. Blavatsky, in­
heritor of the powerful and tempestuous Dolgorouky charac­
ter ; the other H. P. B. was the dignified and splendid
disciple, whose will and courage nothing could daunt.
Though Col. Olcott did so much to help H. P. B. yet, he
puts on record that the book was hers alone. H. P. B. wrote
throughout under the direction of the Masters, Who dictated to
her, and put before her astral sight the books to quote from,
some of which were materialised for the Colonel to refer to,
and disappeared after quotations had been verified. There
were several styles of writing in her manuscript, and differ­
ences in the English. The most perfect manuscripts were
those written for her while she slept. The immense amount
of knowledge gathered into Isis Unveiled H. P. B. refused to
attribute to herself. She was helped, and the helper was her
Teacher (or Guru). Isis came out in two Volumes. Volume I
was more or less confined to questions of Science ; Vol. II
to questions of Religion. But so discursive was the material
that it was difficult to keep to these headings. Miss E. Kis-
lingbury (England), when visiting H. P. B., prepared the
Table of Contents for Vol. II,1 while the Colonel prepared
1On her return to England Miss Kislingbury gave an address in
December 1877 to the British Association of Spiritualists in London, and
spoke in praise of H. P. B. and her work. During the same month
Miss Kislingbury also thought a good deal about establishing, in London,
a T h e o s o p h ic a l R ev iew , a quarterly, to develop the principles they held
94 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
that for Vol. I. Even when the final selection was made, the
manuscript was by no means exhausted, but the publisher
refused to put any more capital into the venture, for constant
alterations had already made the charges very heavy.
1877
The title chosen for the book was originally The Veil o f Isis,
When it was nearly all stereotyped Sotheran discovered that
the title had already been used, so W. J. Bouton, the publisher,
suggested Isis Unveiled, which H. P. B. accepted with hesitation
—“ she did not like the pretence of unveiling Isis when she
meant only to lift very slightly one corner of Nature’s garment
of Maya.” The full title of the book was “ Isis Unveiled, A
Master-Key to the Mysteries of Ancient and Modern Science
and Theology.” The volumes were dedicated “ to The Theo-
sophical Society which was founded at New York, A.D. 1875
to Study the Subjects on which they Treat.” It was offered
to such as were “ willing to accept truth wherever it may be
found, and to defend it, even looking popular prejudice
straight in the face.”
At the end of the Introduction, entitled “ Before the Veil,”
the intention of the book is declared : “ . . . we must
show our false theologies in their naked deformity, and
distinguish between divine religion and human dogmas. Our
voice is raised for spiritual freedom, and our plea made for
enfranchisement from all tyranny, whether of Science or
T heology.” Vol. I challenged “ The ‘ Infallibility’ of Modern
Science. ” It began by upholding the value of ancient tradi­
tions which passed along the ages, though suffering at times
from mistranslation and mutilation. Science in those far off
days was called “ Magic,” and the wise who cherished it and
dear. It was suggested that H. P. B. and the Colonel might write for it.
It would cost £100 a year and pay nothing for the first few years, unless
H. P. B. would take them by storm. Those interested started a P s y c h o ­
lo g ic a l R e o ie w instead. (Letters from Miss Kislingbury to H. P. B. and
H.S.O., 1877-8.)
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 95
handed it on in its esoteric purity, the Magi. She thought
men of science should have taken more trouble to investigate
psychic and mediumistic phenomena, despite all the surface
huckstering, and discovered their true causes. Instead, “ the
phenomena chase the scientists, and the scientists run away
from the phenomena ” (as the Hon. A. Aksakoff wrote).
H. P. B. showed where science was leading in many of the
discoveries then made, gave some idea of a primary force, of
nature’s mysteries, and of other denizens besides ourselves in
this universe of cyclic phenomena. Reincarnation—under
the name of metempsychosis—was quite clearly taught, though
Col. Olcott argued to the contrary in Old Diary Leaves.' The
development of consciousness and the mysteries of the
interaction between God and man were outlined. The marvels
of the Egyptian wisdom were indicated, also that “ India ”
was the cradle of our present Race—an ancient India whose
boundaries included what is now the Gobi Desert.
The law of Karma, which was taught in Isis, and has
been so prominent a feature in Theosophic thought, was,
said the Colonel, taught to him from the beginning of his
intercourse with H. P. B.
Vol. II. dealt with “ Theology” and challenged “ The
Infallibility of Religion.” “ An analysis of religious beliefs in
general, this Volume is in particular directed against theologic­
al Christianity, the chief opponent of free thought . . .
We cast our gauntlet at the dogmatic theologians who would
enslave both history and science . . .” H. P. B. showed
how Christian “ sources ” were to be found, not alone in the
pure teachings of Jesus, but in the origins from which He
drew them ; how gradually the traces of the earlier teachings
were obliterated by being grafted on to Christianity, especially
those of the Kabala, a term which H. P. B. used to cover all
esoteric knowledge from the time of the Vedas onwards. She
showed how the long views of time, cycles and evolution
1Vol. i. pp. 277—287. For the theory of Metempsychosis see Isis,
Vol. i, p. 12.
96 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
were done away with through misunderstanding, and there­
fore the loss of the “ mystery teaching,” the divine Science,
or Magic, a word which she made synonymous with Occult­
ism, or Theosophy. To come to that supreme Magic man
must know himself. There is One Truth which man may
know—the Truth that “ the trinity of Nature is the lock of
Magic, the trinity of man the key that fits it.”
When Isis Unveiled appeared it caused a sensation. The
first edition was exhausted in ten days, and within seven
months three editions were issued. Itwas reviewed favourably
throughout the world, as a great number of reviews pasted
into the SCRAPBOOKS bear witness. A few criticised it. It
was, and is, a great book—the first classic in the literature of
The Theosophical Society. It opened up to the West com­
pletely new and unexpected avenues of thought. It threw
light upon prevailing incoherent views of man, his origin, his
history and destiny ; and upon the nature of early civilisations
and the profundity of the teachings they had enjoyed.
As it was known that Prof. A. Wilder was a friend of
H. P. B., one or more people, thinking it incredible that a
woman should have produced so erudite a book, asked if he
had written Isis. He replied that his part had been to supply
a few of the facts she quoted, and he had prepared the very
copious Index of some fifty pages from the advanced book
plates provided for the purpose ; for which task he had
received a certain remuneration.
It was during the writing of Isis that there happened to
Col. Olcott one of the most important events in his life. He
had, naturally, been deeply concerned with his future course
of action. His imagination had been fired by H. P. B., and
by his work on Isis, with the idea of what India had once
been to the world and what she might be again. His heart
leapt with longing to go to the land of the Sages (Rishis).
But there were ties in America he felt he could not easily
break, though he had been assured by the Master Serapis
that his boys would be provided for while he devoted himself
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 97
to the Society, and they were. One night, after the work
on Isis was finished, and as he was reading, his own Teacher,
the Master M., appeared. He seemed “ so grand a man, so
luminously spiritual, so evidently above average humanity,”
that the Colonel was abashed, and bowed humbly before
Him. The Master sat and talked to him of the work to be
done for the good of humanity, and of his own and H. P. B.’s
part in that work. To prove the reality of His visit and in
answer to the Colonel’s thought that it might be all hallucina­
tion, the Master left His turban on the table, and this turban
is still at Adyar.
In July, as a demonstration of the brotherhood for which
they stood, H. P. B. and Col. Olcott befriended thirteen
stranded Muslim Arabs. The men said they had been
shipwrecked and rescued, and were landed in New York
penniless and friendless. They could speak no English,
and had wandered the streets for two days without food, till
they were given some bread. They had no papers to fix
their nationality, and there was no appropriate public body
ready to assist them. The Colonel gained authority from the
Mayor of New York to make a collection for them, which,
after some effort, amounted to 2000 dollars. He invited the
chief one among the Arabs, who had the reputation of being
a marabout (or minor priest), to visit their apartment, when
some phenomena occurred. The Captain of the ship on
which they were to return to Tunis, refused to sail without
someone in charge of them, lest they mutiny. So Col. Olcott
sent a young member of The Society with them. After their
departure he received information from the Governor of
Trinidad, through the Colonial Secretary, that the Arabs were
French subjects escaped from the Cayenne Penal Settlement.
Great publicity was given to this friendly act, also much
ridicule.
During August occurred some disruption in the relations
of H. P. B. and Col. Olcott with Mr. Judge. Apparently he
refused to undertake some test of his fitness for certain occult
7
98 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
work. The breach was not healed until May of the next
year, when Judge came seeking reconciliation.
In September Stainton Moses (M. A., Oxon.) wrote
to H. P. B. saying that Capt. F. G. Irwin, who had been made
a corresponding member during the previous month, wanted
to form a Branch of The Theosophical Society in England,
with elaborate ritual, music, aromatic gums and the rest.
(This was apparently the idea of using the Sat Bhai Order in
connection with The Society, and the fact that John Yarker
was already in correspondence with H. P. B. about it con­
firms this.)
As the dream of the Founders of The Theosophical
Society was to go to India and to form connections with
Asiatic people, they welcomed eagerly any opportunity
of knowing more about them. An American who had
been in India called upon them, and Col. Olcott showed
him the photograph of the two Hindus who had been
fellow-passengers with him on the same ship from Eng­
land to America in 1870. 1 They were on a mission to
the West to see what could be done to introduce Eastern
spiritual and philosophic ideas. The traveller had met one
of them, Mulji Thackersey, in Bombay, and gave Col. Olcott
his address. He wrote at once and told Mulji about The
Society, of their love for India and the reason for it.
Mulji enthusiastically accepted the diploma of membership
offered to him, and, in return, informed the Colonel about a
Hindu Pandit and reformer, Swami Dayananda Sarasvati,
who had begun a powerful movement, called the Arya Samaj,
for the revival of the pure Vedic religion. He introduced
also Hurrychand Chintamon, President of the Bombay group
of the Arya Samaj, with whom Col. Olcott then corresponded.
Hurrychand too spoke highly of Swami Dayanand. He put
the Colonel into touch with him, and they exchanged letters.
The Theosophical Society was making a point at this
time of stressing the “ impersonality of God—an Eternal and
1They were apparently Mulji Thackersey and a Mr. Tulsidas.
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 99
Omnipresent Principle which, under man}' different names,
was the same in all religions.” As the Swami seemed to
hold the same views, the Colonel was quite willing to work
under him, and regarded him as his superior in every respect
H. P. B. advised him that there was “ an adept of the Himala­
yan Brotherhood inhabiting the Swami’s body ; well known to
our own teachers, and in relations with them for the accom­
plishment of the work he had in hand.” From all that they
could hear it seemed a good thing to unite the two Societies,
especially as they were informed that in August the Arya
Samaj had published the Swami’s defence of his own
views against the attacks of his critics. He had quoted
approvingly the opinions of the great Orientalists of those
days, that the God of the Vedas was an Impersonality.
Towards the end of the year, and after the publication
of Isis Unveiled, PL P. B. was in communication with Mr. John
Yarker, a well-known English Freemason living in Manches­
ter. He brought to her notice ceremonials belonging to an
Order called the Sat Bhai (Seven Brothers), because each group
consisted of seven members. It was said to have been
started, or perhaps handed on, by a Chaubi (a student of the
four Vedas) Brahman Pandit of Benares. Apparently some
British army officers in India were initiated into, and were
expected to carry the ideals of the Sat Bhai throughout the
world. It planned also to be a vigilante committee to see that
justice, right, and civil equality were respected. Yarker credited
a Capt. Archer with being the “ inventor of the order,” from
his memories of what the Pandit had taught. There were
several years’ delay in producing the rituals, though the
early ones seemed to have been completed. Yarker had
introduced about a hundred members into the Order, among
them some women of note. One peculiar, and, Yarker said,
original feature of the Order was the effort to introduce a sort
1 Adept : This title was freely used to mean a member of any grade
of the Occult Hierarchy. It was afterwards reserved for Those of the
grade of Masterhood—“ Adept Brothers.’
100 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
of “ overseeing ” of ordinary Masonry, under the direction of a
College of Censors, to punish Masonic faults. Some objected
to this, and to the fact that some of the members of the earlier
stages of the Sat Bhai were not Freemasons. Yarker sent
the rituals to H. P. B. for consideration and advice, since she
seemed to show in Isis such exceptional knowledge of the
inner meaning of Masonry.
The symbolism of the Sat Bhai rituals and the titles of
the officers were Indian. The Order had nothing in common
with Western Masonry. After much correspondence, it was
proposed by Yarker that those who passed into the second
grade should take up a study of Vedic literature, and the
third grade should practise genuine Eastern Masonry. These
ceremonies were to depict the course of evolution from a
Hindu point of view : the outbreathing and inbreathing of
the Universe of Brahma, the meaning of the ten Avataras,.
and so on.1
As early as January 1877, C. C. Massey and others who-
were members of The Society were meeting occasionally in
London. There was a Secretary of the group and they read
and discussed papers. Several of them felt that the
aggressive policy towards established religions was injurious
within and fruitless without, and that slowly building up by
self-culture and self-discipline was the real thing needed to
which they could uncompromisingly pledge themselves.2
C. C. Massey wrote to H. P. B. in the same strain—they felt
they could not pledge themselves to active opposition to any
form of religion, and asked, “ Could not our Society confine
itself to study and obligatory se\i-discipline in life and
mind ? ” 1 He said they were quite resolved to form an affiliat­
ed Society, if they were allowed more liberty than Col..
Olcott contemplated. Miss Kislingbury was very active in
1Summarised from the Letters of Mr. Yarker to H.P.B. and from the.
proposed Rituals, 1877-8.
2Miss E. Kislingbury to H. P. B., Nov. 1877.
3C. C. Massey to H. P. B., Dec. 1877.
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 101
trying to promote the sale of Isis Unveiled. She more than
once urged H. P. B. to settle in London, where a group of
disciples would rally round her. She also intimated quite
frankly that neither Stainton Moses nor Massey was prepared
to undertake any “ propaganda.”
On 11 December, Cobb, Massey, Stainton Moses
(Moseyn) and Miss Kislingbury met at 38, Great Russell
Street, with Miss Kislingbury as Secretary to the meeting.
Cobb read the instructions from Col. Olcott, and both Moses
and Massey dissented from that part recommending propa­
ganda ; the latter protested against the change in these
instructions from the articles of The Theosophical Society as
at first established. The Meeting resolved that—(1) The
statement in the Bye-laws expresses substantially the plat­
form which this meeting of London Fellows accepts, viz. :
“ Whatever may be the private opinions of its members,
the society has no dogmas to enforce, no creed to dissem­
inate. It is formed neither as Spiritualistic schism, nor
to serve as the foe or friend of any sectarian or philosophic
body. Its only axiom is the omnipotence of truth, its only
creed a profession of unqualified devotion to its discovery
and propagation. In considering the qualifications of appli­
cants for membership, it knows neither race, sex, colour,
country, nor creed.” 1(2) That no religious propaganda of any
kind is within their contemplation. (3) They desire to devote
themselves to the ancient philosophies, and to the cultivation
of the spiritual life and practice as may conduce to the
higher development of the innate powers of the human
spirit. (4) In their opinion, in the formation of a Branch
Society in Great Britain, the Fellows should have, so far as
is compatible with union with the Parent Society, liberty of
action and development.
Massey wrote that he supposed The Society to be
designed for “ the initiation of its members into the
deeper mysteries of life, and for the attainment of spiritual
1Scrapbook, i.
102 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
powers and knowledge through study and discipline, and by
all the means of experiment and self-culture which might
commend themselves to persons prepared to subordinate all
the lower propensities and motives of their nature to the
pursuit of these sublime ends.” He was quite prepared to
make the effort to subordinate the physical to the spiritual
self. But he could not undertake to pledge himself to a religi­
ous philosophy which he imperfectly understood ; nor did he
wish to accept unreservedly to devote himself to the sort of
missionary life that might be chosen for him by his Superiors
in the Society. . . . He felt there were possible depths in
Christianity which he had not yet probed, which might prove to
be identical with that of the Eastern religions. He felt The
Society would be more worthily exercised in combating the
prevalent and encroaching Materialism than in a superfluous
assault upon theological errors, however gross and mischiev­
ous, which the tendencies of modern thought were fast
consigning to ridicule and discredit. The spiritual interests
of mankind, at least of Western peoples, were in far more
danger from Materialism, enforced by so-called scientific
authority, than from enfeebled theologies. He submitted
that the public objects of The Society should be : (1) to com­
bat Materialism ; (2) to reform and enlighten Spiritualism ; (3)
to advance the science of psychology. As he recognised in
these objects the highest use to which individuals could be
subservient, in the present state of the world, he would for
their sake be content to surrender his independence to
Generals whom he believed to be competent leaders. He
further suggested that the formation of a Branch in London
should be. held over pending the arrival of the President’s
final decision.1 Miss Kislingbury concurred, noting that a
platform similar to that originally occupied by The Theo-
sophical Society as set forth in its Preamble and Bye-Laws
would be more conformable to the views of the English
Fellows and more conducive to the ends they hoped to
1C. C. Massey, Memorandum to Col. Olcott, Dec. .1877.
THE THEOSOPHICAI. SOCIETY 103
attain. From such a platform she was prepared to work
heartily for the formation and support of a Branch Theo-
sophical Society.
Though Dr. Storer Cobb assisted in the formation of the
Branch he did not ioin it, nor did Mrs. Billings. Both pre­
ferred to retain their membership in the “ Parent Society,”
the Society,” of which membership was lost upon joining
a Branch.1
1878
On 19 January, a diploma was sent to Otho Alexandre
at Corfu ; and on 3 February Mulji Thackersey was instructed
to organize a Bombay Branch. On the 9th a diploma was
sent to Hurrychand and a Charter for the Branch, and
photographs of the grip and signs. In this month The
Society decided to make an alliance with the Arya Samaj.
And to Aksakoff was forwarded, for publication in Russia,
a Report of The Society, of which there seems to be no
record. As «an introduction to India, Isis Unveiled was
advertised in many Indian papers.
In April, in consequence of their correspondence with
Yarker, H. P. B., Olcott and Sotheran discussed with some
Freemasons about constituting The Society as a Masonic
body, with Rituals and Degrees. The idea was “ that it
would form a natural complement to the higher degrees of
the Craft, restoring to it the vital element of Oriental mystic­
ism which it lacked, or had lost. . . . At the same time,
such an arrangement would give strength and permanency
to The Society by allying it to the Ancient Brotherhood
whose lodges are established thoughout the whole world.”
When they went to India, H. P. B. and Col. Olcott took
these rituals to discuss them with Swami Dayanand, and
1This most important fact should be kept in mind ; it explains so
much. The early members constituted th e Society, in contradistinction to
those who joined Branches.
104 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
obtain his advice before settling anything. Mr. Judge and
the others left in New York were to await a decision con­
cerning the rituals before further promoting the interests of
The Society. The Swami was consulted when H. P. B. and
Col. Olcott met him in Saharanpur in 1879, but as difficulties
arose with him in 1880, and because of the growth of The
Society along quite other lines, the whole idea of using such
rituals was by 1882 abandoned as impracticable.
The Council of The Society met in April and gave
the President “ full discretionary powers to establish Head­
quarters wherever he chose, to adopt whatever measures
he might see fit in The Society’s interest, the Council ratifying
in advance whatever he might do." This might seem rather
far-reaching, but Mme. Blavatsky and Col. Olcott were the
mainstay of The Society, and Col. Olcott was already begin­
ning to organise it in his own effective way, and in utter devo­
tion to the Masters to Whom he had vowed his services.
They both were, as always, the centre of a most interesting
group of men and women, many of them artists in drama,
architecture, painting and sculpture and so on. Thomas le
Clear painted H. P. B.’s portrait, and O’Donovan, the
sculptor, made a bronze profile portrait medallion of her.
In addition, visitors from all over the world, and in every
walk of life, called upon them. There were letters from
everywhere about Isis, and requests for membership from
England, France, Russia, India, Ceylon, etc., from priests and
laymen of many faiths.
Col. Olcott composed his first circular explaining the
origin and plan of The Society and the aims for which
it stood. On 3 May this circular was ready for distribution.
He gave a packet of circulars to Dr. H. J. Billing to take to
London, and another to a Countess Paschkoff to take to
Japan. The circular 1 explained that Fellows were Active,
1Scrapbook i. Published in T h e G o ld en B o o k o f T h e T h e o s o p h ica l
S o c ie ty , p. 26. The development of the Rules of The Society is given
at the end of this H isto r y .
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 105
Corresponding and Honorary ; and that there were three
graded Degrees, in each of which certain attitudes to life were
expected of the members, and even if they left The Society
the bond of secrecy held for life. The objects of The Society
were
(1) a serious attempt on the part of each member to study and
develop his “inner psychic self
(2) to oppose the materialism of science and every form of dog­
matic theology, especially the Christian ; to make known “ the f a c t s
about Oriental religious philosophies, especially the pure esoteric teachings
in the Vedas, and in the philosophies of the Buddha, Zoroaster and
Confucius ; ”
(3) chiefly to aid in “ the institution of a Brotherhood of Humanity,
wherein all good and pure men will recognise each other as the equal
effects (upon this planet) of one Uncreate, Universal, Infinite, and Ever­
lasting Cause.”
The important words “ the Brotherhood of Humanity ”
were here used for the first time. Also, this circular is notice­
able for the absence of reference to Spiritualism, and phenom­
ena. The articles written by Col. Olcott about this time
show how The Society was drawing away from Spiritualism,
and was framing, under the teachings given by the Masters,
a new sequence of Ideals and ideas which, though vari­
ously named for some years, gradually became known as
Theosophy.
In this outline of The Society’s aims and objects, because
of the strong influences of those times, the present Objects
were reversed. Brotherhood now comes first, the study of
religion, philosophy and science second, and the develop­
ment of latent psychic powers third.
Just as Col. Olcott was preparing this circular, he receiv­
ed from Hurrychand a letter accepting Fellowship in The
Society, and also a leaflet on Theism as taught in the Arya
Samaj. It did not appear very satisfactory to the little group
of Theosophists, they thought the views expressed on Deity
were too highly infected with anthropomorphism. Neverthe­
less, the aims and ideals of the Arya Samaj seemed attrac­
tive enough for A. Gustam, the Recording Secretary, to
106 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
write, on 22 May, “ To the Chiefs of the Arya Samaj,” advis­
ing them that the Council of The Theosophical Society had
accepted the proposal of the Arya Samaj to unite with itself,
and had changed its title to The Theosophical Society of the
Arya Samaj of India ; ” and recognised Swami Dayanand
as its Chief.
In April, Col. Olcott was in correspondence with several
Buddhist Priests of Ceylon, including Sumangala, the High
Priest, and thus paved the way to the later enduring friend­
ship with them.1
As early as 16 May, H. P. B. and Col. Olcott were
directed to make ready for their departure to India. It was
not until December that it was possible for the Colonel to
settle his affairs and be free to leave. In June he wrote to
the English Fellows that their coming to London on the way
to India was still problematic, as he was “ earning the
passage money.” Two English people, then in America,
were allowed to join The Society, and for a while played
quite a part in the lives of the Founders. One was Edward
Wimbridge, an architect and designer, and the other Miss
Rosa Bates, a school teacher. Wimbridge made himself
very useful to the small household in New York, and as
fortune was not being kind to either of the two, they decided
to accompany H. P. B. and the Colonel to India.
In this same month The Society’s Council decided to
restore initiation fees, and to send them to the Arya Samaj,
through Hurrychand. General Abner Doubleday joined The
Society on 30 June, and a few months later Col. Olcott asked
him if he would be Acting President after his departure. To
this Doubleday agreed.
As Dr. Storer Cobb was on a visit to London, the
Council empowered him to call “ a meeting of Corresponding
Fellows at the city of London . . . for the purpose of organis­
ing a Branch Society to be known as the ‘ British Theo­
sophical Society ’ ; to represent the President of this Society
1Megituwatte, the famous orator-priest, was sent a diploma in 1877.
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 107
at the same ; to administer to such as may not have previ­
ously taken it, the obligation of secrecy ; and to impart the
grips, passwords, and signs by which Fellows may know
each other in case of need.” The meeting was held on 27
June at 38, Great Russell Street. Those present were
Dr. Cobb, C. C. Massey, Miss E. Kislingbury, Dr. H. J. Billing,
Dr. C. Carter Blake and Dr. G. Wyld. These five were
deeply interested in Spiritualism. John Yarker, (Manchester)'
Kenneth Mackenzie,1 Capt. F. G. Irwin' (Bristol) and
R. P. Thomas sent their regrets at being unable to be
present, but expressed their sympathy with the objects.
These four were specially interested in Freemasonry,
Rosicrucianism and ceremonial generally. C. C. Massey was
chosen by ballot as President, and Miss Kislingbury as
Secretary. These proceedings were duly ratified by the
President of The Society. This Branch issued its first public
circular under the name of “ The British Theosophical Society
of the Arya Samaj of Aryavart.”
The circular followed in outline the earlier one issued in
New York by Col. Olcott. It declared :
(1) The British Theosophical Society is founded for the purpose
of discovering the nature and powers of the human soul by investigation
and experiment.
(2) The object of the Society is to increase the amount of human
health, goodness, knowledge, wisdom and happiness.
(3) The Fellows pledge themselves to endeavour, to the best of
their powers, to live a life of temperance, purity and brotherly love.
They believe in a Great First Intelligent Cause, and in the Divine Sonship
of the spirit of man, and hence the immortality of that spirit, and in the
universal brotherhood of the human race.
(4) 1 he Society is in connection and sympathy with the Arya
Samaj of Aryavart, one object of which Society is to elevate, by a true
spiritual education, mankind out of degenerate, idolatrous, and impure
forms of worship wherever prevalent.
1Compiler of T h e R o y a l M a so n ic E n cy clo p e d ia , 1877.
- He had the largest private collection of literature on occult studies
in Britain, including two very rare MSS., one belonging formerly to the
Comte de St. Germain and one to Count de Cagliostro. Like others in­
terested in the occult at that time, he was a friend of Eliphas Levi.—
Irwin to Col. Olcott, 1877.
108 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
In July H. P. B. took out her naturalisation papers and
was duly sworn in as a citizen of the United States of
America ; she foreswore all other allegiances and forwent all
her titles, for which she had never cared. The newspapers
gave this act a good deal of publicity and sent reporters to
interview her. Considering the political relations then existing
between Britain and Russia, this naturalisation was no doubt
a wise move, though it did not entirely prevent the suspicion
of her opponents in India that she was a Russian spy.
During this month A. Gustam resigned as Recording
Secretary, and \V. Q. Judge was elected to fill the vacancy.
In August the Rules of The Arya Samaj arrived. It was
clear the Samaj was not identical in character with The
Society ; but was instead a new Vedic sect of Hinduism.
The Theosophical Society “ resumed its status quo ante.
H. P. B. and Col. Olcotl sent out two circulars during
September. One defined the nature of The Theosophical
Society ; the other explained the nature of a new body—the
“ Theosophical Society of the Arya Samaj of Aryavart.” This
organisation, which lasted three or four years, acted as a
link between the two parent Societies. It had its own
diploma and Rules. Members of the parent bodies were
at liberty to join it or not as they wished. The name
“ Parent Society ” clung to The Theosophical Society and is
still met with. Perhaps it is just that this should be so, since
all other Theosophical Societies have been derived from it in
one way or another.
Pressure was put upon the Founders to get ready for
departure. They were finding life difficult, for the Colonel
had lost practically all his income, and was anxiously
trying to find business engagements, and arrange agencies
for Indian goods. To help him in this he secured
a special passport such as is issued to American diplomats,
and a commission to report to the United States Government
upon the practicability of extending its commercial in­
terests in Asia. His wife had strongly objected to his
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 109
mode of living and was making trouble. H. P. B. was
earning very little, as her absorption in writing Isis Unveiled
had seriously interrupted her other literary work. The Society
was a heavy charge upon them, and neither was a person to
do anything by halves. Despite all this they were generous to
all who came, and said nothing about unpaid bills, though
they managed to clear off all these by the sale of their furni­
ture and effects. Finally they were able to buy steamer
tickets. Miss Bates had gone on already, in November.
H. P. B„ Col. Olcott and Wimbridge went on board their
boat late at night on 17 December, as was directed.
The night was cold, dark and foggy, so the ship anchored
off Coney Island to wait till the fog cleared and for the tide
on the 19th. This delay caused H. P. B. intense anxiety.
Col. Olcott does not, in Old Diary Leaves, Vol. II, p. i, give
the right impression as to her reasons for this. The fact was
that both he and Wimbridge were in danger of being
prevented from leaving the country ; the Colonel by his wife,
Wimbridge on account of a law-suit that was pending,
which was settled sometime later in his favour. H. P. B.
did not mind so much about Wimbridge, but she was
exceedingly concerned that the Masters’ wish that she
and Col. Olcott should proceed to India should not be
obstructed. Only when they were fairly out of American
waters could she relax her “ exhausting vigilance.” 1
“ Behind themlay three years ofstruggles ; ofobstacles surmounted ;
of crudeplanspartly worked out ; ofliterary labour ; ofdesertion offriends,
of encounters with adversaries ; of the laying of broad foundations for
the structure that in time was destined to arise for the gathering in of
the nations, but the possibility of which was not suspected by them.
For they had builded better than they knew . . . The marvellous
extension of our Society had not entered even into our dreams . . .” 2
1D ia ry , 1878.
- O ld D ia ry L e a v e s, Vol. I, p. 483.
APPEN DIX I
T H E O T H E R F O U N D E R S : W H A T
B E C A M E O F T H E M
W. L. ALDEN. Editorial writer on the New York Times, and
of great repute for caustic and humorous criticisms upon
current topics. He later held important Consular appoint­
ments under the American Government. He did not seem
to last very long as a member, and in 1881 said he had been
dragged into The Society, and cared nothing for it. He
ridiculed The Society in the newspapers and in one article
referred to the Founders as “ Dead-heads.” These articles
were reprinted in some Ceylon papers during Col. Olcott’s
second visit in 1881.
MRS. EMMA HARDINGE BRITTEN had been before the
public for forty years as a Spiritualistic medium, inspirational
lecturer, and authoress. Some of the early meetings of The
Theosophical Society were held in her house. Her presence
was considered necessary at the “ formation of The Society.
She published in her book, Nineteenth Century Miracles, 1884,
almost the only extant account of the meeting of 7 September.
Just about the time Isis Unveiled was appearing, she was
advertising a book called Art M agic. When sending the
unpublished advertisement to Col. Olcott, she pointed out
that the book anticipated, without any concerted action,
whatever of Cabalistic lore the said Theosophical Society
might evolve. The book, she announced, was written
by an adept of her acquaintance—the Chevalier Louis
Constant—a life-long honoured friend, whom she had
met in Europe and for whom she was acting as translator
THE OTHER FOUNDERS 111
and secretary. Some persons hinted that the book was
really being brought out by The Theosophical Society, and
this provoked her wrath. She wrote to the newspapers that
she looked upon such a statement as a libel, and instructed
her legal adviser to take action against anyone who asserted
either publicly or privately that the work in question had any­
thing to do “ with Col. Olcott, Madame Blavatsky, the New
York Theosophical Society, or anything or person belonging
to either those persons or that Society.” Col. Olcott pointed
out that though there were some grave errors in the book,
yet it marked a “ literary epoch in American literature and
thought.”
Though Mrs. Britten left the Society fairly soon, she had
a certain amount of contact with its leaders until 1890,
when she joined with Prof. Coues and others in spreading
the calumny that Isis Unveiled was written by Baron de
Palm.
DR. W. BRITTEN, husband of Mrs. Emma Britten. He
too was a Spiritualist and published her Nineteenth Century
Miracles. He left The Society early.
JOHN STORER COBB : English barrister and Doctor
of Laws. Ex-editor of the New Era Magazine, the organ of
the Reformed Jews. Was a leader in the Cremation Move­
ment. He was sent as Presidential Agent, by the Council
in New York, to assist in the foundation of the British Theo­
sophical Society of the Arya Samaj of Aryavarta, 1878. He
lost interest and disappeared.
GEORGE H. FELT : a New York engineer, brilliant,
and possessing genius. He gave the lecture on “ The Lost
Canon of Proportion of the Egyptians, Greeks and Romans,”
which started The Society. This lecture was afterwards
published by Bouton as a book, about which Wm. E. Glad­
stone thought it worth while to write a twelve-page letter.
Felt drifted out of The Society. He was in England in 1877
and proposed the formation of a Society for occult research,
with himself as President. Nothing came of this proposal.
112 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
WILLIAM QUAN JUDGE, was born in Dublin, 1851.
He was brought up a Methodist, but early showed strong
occult tendencies. The family migrated to New York, 1864.
Judge became a naturalized American citizen at 21. He
worked as a clerk at an early age as he had to be self-sup­
porting. He married in 1874, and had one daughter who
died of diphtheria, 1876. At the time of the formation of
The Society he was a law clerk in the office of the U. S.
Attorney for the S. District of New York. He was later
admitted to the Bar, and made a speciality of Commercial
Law. He was modest, unassuming, eager for occult instruc­
tion and ready to work. Though at first H. P. B. objected to
Judge becoming a Councillor, yet he won her friendly regard
and kept it. He developed leadership, and became one of
the most important figures in The Society. Then difficulties
arose, and he led the secession of the majority of American
Lodges, 1895. He passed away 1896.
D. E. DE LARA : a learned old gentleman of Portuguese
Hebrew extraction. H. P. B. and H. S. O. had great affect­
ion for him. He seems to have remained a member till he
died.
CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY was an English barris­
ter and litterateur, and was keenly interested in Spiritualism.
He was one of the ablest metaphysicians in Great Britain,
and a lucid and scholarly writer on psychical subjects. He
went to the U. S. A., 1875, to visit Chittenden to verify for
himself Col. Olcott’s accounts of the Eddy phenomena. He
became a life-long friend of Col. Olcott. Before H. P. B.
left London in 1879, Massey requested her to give relief to
his father, whose eyesight was seriously impaired. To es­
tablish contact she took with her a pair of Mr. Massey’s
(senior) gloves. After arrival in Bombay H. P. B., by occult
means, sent one glove to London, 17 February. Having
been advised by a lady medium to be at home on the 17th,
Massey waited in a darkened room, and presently a soft
packet was flung in his face. The remaining glove was
THE OTHER FOUNDERS 113
sent by post for comparison. This incident got into the
papers and annoyed Massey, who complained that such
publicity cost him his practice. In 1881 he desired to go and
spend his days with the Founders in India. He translated
from the German Zollner’s Transcendental Physics, Carl du
Prel’s Philosophy o f Mysticism, and von Hartmann’s Spiritism.
He was one of the founders of the Psychical Research
Society. He left The Theosophical Society when the S.P.R.
attacked H. P. B., and gave evidence before it that she had
in 1879 arranged that a Mahatma letter should reach him in
a mysterious way. Passed away 1905.
HERBERT D. MONACHESI: a newspaper reporter. An
Italian by birth and of very psychical temperament. In The
Sunday M ercury, New York, 1875, appeared an article by
him on an intended Buddhist Mission to America, to make
known Eastern spiritual knowledge. On the margin of this
cutting in SCRAPBOOK l, H. P. B. wrote that his article out­
lined the original programme of The Theosophical Society,
and that the time had come when the West should know
more of the wisdom, philosophy and achievements of India.
Monachesi dropped out.
HENRY J. NEWTON : a wealthy retired manufacturer.
The foremost Spiritualist in New York City, and President
of the Society of Spiritualists. President of the Photographic
Section of the American Institute. He was a great authority
on practical photographic science and was the inventor of
the dry-plate method. A man of dauntless moral courage,
tenacious of opinions. Elected Treasurer of The Theosophic­
al Society, but withdrew when he found neither H. P. B.
nor Felt were going to show him either Adepts or elementáis.
He retained the Record List of The Society, which he later
refused to give up, regarding it as a valuable relic, and was
rather inclined to the opinion he had himself formed The
Theosophical Society. Passed away 1895.
DR. SETH PANCOAST, of Philadelphia, was a theistic
mystic and a great alchemist. He was an ex-professor of
8
114 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
a medical college and author of medical works. The Kabala
was the study of his life. He had collected a very valuable
library of occult books. He wrote a notable work on the
therapeutic and occult properties of the blue and red rays of
the spectrum. He was present at Felt’s lecture and ques­
tioned him closely. H. P. B. always spoke with great respect
of his erudition. But when it came to putting theory to the
test by evoking the unseen elemental races which guard the
threshold of knowledge, he confessed he lacked courage,
though H. P. B. frequently offered to assist in the ceremonies
and, if necessary, face the worst of the phantoms alone.
Under the names of “ Lex ” and “ Lex et Lux ” he wrote for
the Spiritualistic papers on Kabalistic and other matters. He
remained a member till he passed away in 1889.
CHARLES SOTHERAN was a relative of the famous
London booksellers of the same name. He was with Sabin
and Sons, book-sellers, New York, and connected in a
literary way with their journal The American Bibliopolist. His
temperament kept him and his friends in a turmoil. Three
months after The Society was formed there was trouble, as
Sotheran not only made inflammatory speeches at a political
street meeting, to which H. P. B. objected, but he wrote
bitterly in the newspapers against her and The Society.
His resignation was accepted, and, for the sake of protection.
The Society was made into a secret body, with signs and
passwords. Six months later Sotheran apologised and was
taken back into membership. He gave useful help to H.P.B.
in finding quotations and borrowing books for her during the
writing of Isis Unveiled. Sotheran later published a small
short-lived journal called The Echo. He became a consider­
able nuisance to H. P. B. and H. S. O., and after their
departure to India was not again mentioned.
JUDGE R. B. WESTBROOK was for a time a Professor
of Philology in a British University. He was made a Vice-
President of the Society in 1877, and was much appreciated
by H. P. B. ; but nothing more was said of him.
THE SOCIETY AND THE ARYA SAMAJ 115
REV. J. H. WIGGIN : Editor of The Liberal Christian, in
which he reported the first meeting of 7 September. Resigned
before the end of 1875.
J. HYSLOP, and C. E. SIMMONS, M. D., a well-known
New York physician—of these two no informationc
.has been
discovered.
APPEN DIX II
T H E T H E O SO P H IC A L S O C IE T Y AND
T H E A R Y A SA M A J, 1877-1882
1 8 7 7 . T h e fir s t c o n t a c t w it h t h e A r y a S a m a j w a s m a d e
t h r o u g h M u lji T h a c k e r s e y , w h o p u t C o l. O lc o t t in t o to u c h b y
c o r r e s p o n d e n c e w it h H u r r y c h a n d C h in t a m o n , t h e P r e s id e n t o f
t h e B o m b a y B r a n c h o f t h e A r y a S a m a j. H e , in t u r n , in ­
t r o d u c e d to t h e C o lo n e l t h e n a m e o f S w a m i D a y a n a n d
S a r a s v a t i , f o u n d e r a n d h e a d o f t h e A r y a S a m a j, w h ic h h e h a d
fo r m e d in J u l y a t L a h o r e . It s e e m e d lik e a H in d u T h e o -
s o p h ic a l S o c i e t y t o C o l. O lc o t t , a n d h e d e c id e d a t o n c e t h a t
a n a llia n c e m u s t b e m a d e w it h it.
1 8 7 8 . C o l. O lc o t t s e n t in F e b r u a r y a d ip lo m a to H u r r y ­
c h a n d , a n d a C h a r t e r to M u lji T h a c k e r s e y to fo r m a B o m b a y
B r a n c h o f T h e T h e o s o p h i c a l S o c i e t y . S w a m i D a y a n a n d
a c c e p t e d a d ip lo m a . H u r r y c h a n d p r e s e n t ly s u g g e s te d t h a t
t h e r e w a s n o n e e d to h a v e t w o S o c ie t ie s w it h t h e s a m e
o b je c t s , a n d a n a m a lg a m a t io n w a s a g r e e d u p o n . In M a y
C o l. O lc o t t w r o t e , to t h e m o s t H o n . P a n d it D a y a n a n d
S a r a s v a t i , V e n e r a t e d T e a c h e r :
“ A n u m b e r o f A m e r i c a n a n d o th e r s t u d e n t s w h o e a r n e s t ­
l y s e e k a f t e r s p ir it u a l k n o w le d g e , p la c e t h e m s e lv e s a t y o u r
f e e t , a n d p r a y y o u to e n lig h t e n t h e m . . . F in d in g in
C h r is t ia n it y n o th in g t h a t s a t i s f i e d e ith e r t h e ir r e a s o n o r t h e ir
in tu itio n , s e e in g o n e v e r y s id e t h e e v i l e ff e c t s o f its p e r n ic io u s
d o c t r in e s , fin d in g p r ie s t s w h o w e r e h y p o c r it e s , r a p a c io u s a n d
s e n s u a l, a n d w o r s h i p p e r s w h o l i v e d f a ls e a n d u n c le a n liv e s ,
116 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
beholding crime concealed and condoned, and virtue and
wisdom put aside as obnoxious to existing conditions of
society in Christendom, they stood apart from the world,
turned to the East for light and openly proclaimed themselves
the foes of Christianity .
Later in May, Augustus Gustam, the Recording Secre­
tary of The Theosophical Society, wrote to the chiefs of the
Arya Sam aj:
“ You are respectfully informed that at a meeting
of the Council of The Theosophical Society, held at New
York on 22 May 1878, the President in the Chair, upon
motion of Vice-President A. Wilder, seconded by the
Corresponding Secretary H. P. Blavatsky, it was unanimous­
ly resolved that The Society accept the proposal of the Arya
Samaj to unite with itself, and that the title of this Society be
changed to ‘ The Theosophical Society of the Arya Samaj of
India.’ Resolved that The Theosophical Society, for itself
and branches in America, Europe and elsewhere, hereby
recognise Swami Dayanand Sarasvati, Pandit, Founder of the
the Arya Samaj, as its lawful Director and Chief .
On the same date Col. Olcott wrote to Hurrychand
enclosing the above “ certificate," and saying that his pro­
posal to amalgamate The Theosophical Society with the Arya
Samaj had been effected, with change of title. He also
enclosed a draft of a new form of diploma they proposed
to adopt. He asked that the Swami sign his name “ in
Sanskrit or other vernacular-tongue" so that it might be
lithographed and engraved with the rest of the Diploma, also
to give a seal, if he used one, and they would send the new
Diplomas to all members. The Colonel added a postscript
saying that he was glad of the close fraternal relationship
with the Arya Samai :
“ Its answering hail comes across the seas to us like that
of a rescuing party to the benighted traveller who finds him­
self in the depths of a forest with wild beasts all around
him. For where are there beasts more hostile than these
THE SOCIETY AND THE ARYA SAMAJ 117
Christians are towards Heathens and ‘ Infidels ’ like our­
selves ? . . . ” He repeated this in a letter to Hurrychand,
29 May 1878. In another letter, date uncertain, Col. Olcott
wrote to the Swami :
“ The supreme one whom you teach your disciples to
contemplate and lift their aspirations to, is the very same
Eternal Divine Essence whom we have been pointing the
Christians to as the proper object of their adoration, instead
of their own cruel, remorseless and vacillating Moloch—
Jehovah . . . This is a sordid, a prejudiced, an un­
spiritual people, their religious worship appeals to the bodily
senses—to fear, pride, covetousness, cowardice, malice ; their
temples or churches vie with each other in ostentation ; crime
and vice nestle securely beneath velvet and silken robes, and
in the corners of soft-cushioned pews. Their priests and
ministers temporize with moral delinquencies, and promise
the blessing of eternal communion with God and the saints in
heaven to such as pay liberally and profess loudly.” And
H. P. B. wrote to Hurrychand, 30 May, that she was
“ officially and personally subject ” to the Swami’s wishes.
Evidently the Swami had disapproved of “ miracle
working ” as being much inferior to the study of philosophy and
one’s innate spiritual powers. Col. Olcott admitted the
wisdom of this, but said—“ The masses here, like the masses
• everywhere, are averse to philosophy and hunger after
marvels. With politics we have nothing to do, with false
religions and spiritual slavery everything
These letters were published in full in some Indian
newspapers—the names of which have not been preserved in
the S c r a pb o o k . It is not surprising that the Missionaries had
no welcome for the Founders when they arrived in India !
H. P. B. wrote to the New York. Echo, in June, that
the Indian Spectator was right when it said that the work of
Swami Dayanand bore “ intimate relation to the work of
1H. P. B. to Hurrychand Chintamon in a letter, recently acquired,
dated 30 May, 1878.
118 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
The Theosophical Society . . . Also that the Swami
maintained it was now universally acknowledged that the
Vedas are the oldest books of antiquity, . . . and they
contain nothing but the truth in an unmutilated state. She
said that because members of The Theosophical Society were
sworn to secrecy and this had led to idle tales being circulat­
ed about it, she was glad to proclaim the truth about this
movement, an opportunity embraced with alacrity for “ unlike
our antagonists, the Christians, we are disposed to declare
open war and not resort to forgery, intrigue and Machiavel-
lism to accomplish our ends. The Theosophical Society
means, if it cannot rescue Christians from modern Christian­
ity, at least to aid in saving the ‘ heathen ’ from its influence.”
A Dr. G. Bloede issued the taunt that The Society had
failed in America and would fail in Europe. H. P. B. replied
in the Religio-Pliilosophical Journal, June, that secrecy was no
sign of failure, but one object of The Society they were will­
ing to announce publicly : It is universally known that this
most important object, is to antagonise Christianity and espec­
ially Jesuitism.” As to failure :
“ Where The Society counted, three years ago, its mem­
bers by the dozens, it now counts them by the hundreds and
thousands. . . . The Theosophical Institution which now
bears the name the “ Theosophical Society of the Arya Samaj
of India ” being regularly chartered by and affiliated with that •
great body in the land of the Aryas, will be found one day by
the Spiritualists, and all others who claim the right of thinking
for themselves, to have been the true friend of intellectual and
spiritual liberty,—if not in America, at least in France and
other countries, where an infernal priesthood thrusts innocent
Spiritualists 1into prison by the help of a subservient judiciary
and the use of perjured testimony, its name will be respected
as a pioneer of free thought and an uncompromising enemy
of priestly and monkish fraud and despotism.” Some of this
also found its way into the Indian papers.
1J. Leymarie.
THE SOCIETY AND THE ARYA SAMAJ 119
Apparently a proposal was discussed, and mentioned in
the New York Sun, July, that the Society was considering the
purchase of land in Brooklyn, New Jersey, on which to build
an Aryan temple and house for community purposes, to be
controlled by “ the native members of the Hindoo Arya
Samai of The Theosophical Society.” 1
At this time Swami Dayanand was regarded by the Found­
ers as an “ Adept of the Himalayan Brotherhood.” He was
announced to the American public as Supreme Chief of the
Vedic Section of the Eastern Division of The Theosophical
Society ; his rank and learning were outlined. In the metro­
polis of every country there was to be a principal centre
of the Arya Samai, “ one of the biggest and most beneficent
religio-philosophical fraternities ever organised ”—as Col.
Olcott wrote to the New York Sun. He wrote also to
the Indian Spectator that The Theosophical Society had
affiliated with the Arya Samaj and had accepted Swami
Dayanand as its supreme religious Teacher, Guide and Ruler.
The Theosophical Society prayed for “ the establishment of
a Universal Brotherhood of Races. They were bound by a
pledge of Fellowship to give all, even life, for the cause of
Truth and the honor and welfare of a Brother. They turned
from the blind bigoted West to India, to the Arya Samaj and
to its venerated Founder for counsel and instruction.”
Suggestions were put forward that there should be a mem­
ber of the Arya Samaj sent as missionary to the United
States to work among the Spiritualists to show phenomena ;
and a counter proposition from Hurrychand that the Founders
should postpone their departure for India, and there should
be a conference of both organisations somewhere midway
between India and America, or that the Swami should visit
England.
All these plans were upset when the full Rules of the
Arya Samaj were received in August. It was seen that the
views of the Samaj were too sectarian for The Theosophical
1All these quotations are taken from the Scrapbooks.
120 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Society to approve. The situation was hastily revised.
Instead of adopting the long and complicated Rules of the
Samaj a summarised statement was issued, most of it being
a violent attack upon Christianity, embodying the points
already mentioned in Col. Olcott’s letters to Swami
Dayanand.
Out of the revision emerged thvee organisations : (1) The
Theosophical Society—the Parent Society ; (2) The Arya
Samaj ; (3) The “ link-Society ” between them. This “ link-
Society ” had few members and by about 1880 died out as
futile. Anyone belonging to that belonged also to the other
two, but The Theosophical Society and the Arya Samaj
reverted to separate organisations under their own respective
heads.
C. C. Massey wrote in the Pall Mall Gazette, October,
that the Arya Samaj, contrary to the assault upon it made
by Dr. C. Carter Blake, (for which he was expelled from
The Theosophical Society, but rejoined) was not a secret
body, but the most active public propaganda in India, per­
haps in the world, not excepting the Christian Missionary
enterprises “ to which no doubt it is bitterly opposed.”
H. P. B. wrote to Hurrychand explaining her position
politically, and evidently in her usual forcible way. These
letters, or copies, were later unearthed by the Colonel to
show Hodgson during the Coulomb affair, and were inter­
preted against H. P. B. on the “ Russian Spy” accusation.
After the exposure of Hurrychand in Bombay, he show­
ed these letters to a member of the Bombay Govern­
ment, thus arousing suspicions which were never quite allay­
ed. Hurrychand, the Founders learnt, had served as the
“ political agent ” in London of the Gaekwar of Baroda who,
in 1875, after alleged attempts to poison the British Resident,
had been deposed on the grounds of mismanagement of his
State. Hurrychand was expelled both from the Society and
the Arya Samaj, and decamped to England with Rs. 4,000
belonging to the latter body. In England he sowed doubt
THE SOCIETY AND THE ARYA SAMAJ 121
and suspicion about the Founders among the members of
The Society, and was the originator of the unpleasant “ Her­
metic Brotherhood of Luxor." 1 Later he was forced to leave
England, and seems to have disappeared in the United States-
after starting the H. B. of L. there.
1879. The Founders met the Swami and discussed
matters with him, especially the rituals they were still think­
ing of introducing. The Swami wrote to Gen. Doubleday
that he would send them, basing them on Aryan Masonry.
As time went on the Swami became more sectarian, and to
this neither Col. Olcott nor Madame Blavatsky could agree.
He threatened withdrawal.
1882. In May the Swami suddenly and openly attack­
ed the Founders of The Theosophical Society, charging them
with being converts to Buddhism, and not to the Vedas.
He denied having been a Fellow of The Society ; had never
had other connection with Theosophists than to con­
sent to be their instructor in the Vedas—though he had
never taught them anything; and that The Society had not
laid out one pie (about one-twelfth of a penny) in the further­
ance of the Vedic cause ; this in spite of the monies sent to
him from initiation fees, etc. He announced that neither
Col. Olcott nor Madame Blavatsky knew anything of Yoga
Vidya, though they might know a little of mesmerism and
the art of clever conjuring. He had earlier affirmed
H. P. B.’s Yogic power. He issued a handbill to warn all
Arya Samajists against any relationship with such “ atheists,
liars and selfish persons.” A careful analysis of the Swami’s-
charges is given in The Theosophist by one of the Hindu
Founders of the Parent Society (the Master Jupiter) ; also
Col. Olcott’s exhaustive reply, giving a full account of what
had actually occurred. The outcome was a total severance
of the two organisations.
There is an unfinished autobiography of Swami Daya-
nand in The Theosophist, October 1879-80. He was a learned.
1Not to be confused with the Occult “ Brotherhood of Luxor.”
122 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
powerful and provocative man and an energetic reformer. He
was anxious to restore the authority of the Vedas, challenged
conventional interpretations of them, and forced orthodox
Pandits to discuss his challenges. He stirred many thousands
of Indians from indifference to active patriotism. He was an
ardent educationist and advocate of the freedom of women
from certain disabilities, and promoted widow remarriage.
After a strenuous life, he left a great record of reform,
and a shining memory in India. Born 1824, died 1883.
IN IN D IA
" Our Society was founded at the direct suggestion of Indian and
Tibetan Adepts, and in coming to this country, we but obeyed Their
wishes.” —H. P. B.
“ The Society is composed of t h r e e s e c t i o n s . The highest or First
Section is composed exclusively of proficients or initiates in Esoteric
Science and Philosophy, who take a deep interest in the Society’s
affairs and instruct the President-Founder how best to regulate them.”
—Rules and By-Laws of The Theosophical Society or
Universal Brotherhood. 1879.
1879—1884
T he voyage across the Atlantic was uneventful, but a
fog in the English Channel delayed the arrival of the party.
They were met at Fenchurch St. Station, Lond., by Dr.
Billing. H. P. B. and Col. Olcott were given charming
hospitality by him and Mrs. Billing at their house in Norwood
Park. Here they became at once the centre of their many
friends and correspondents—among them C. C. Massey,
Stainton Moses, Dr. G. Wyld and A. R. Wallace, also several
Hindu law students to whom H. P. B. gave special attention,
and whose initiation into The Society was regarded by the
Colonel as the first step which united the London Theosophic­
al Society with “ The Lodge.” 1 H. P. B. made them life-
members of The Society, “ by order of Council.” Nothing
more was heard of them. A meeting of the British Theo­
sophical Society was held, 5 January, at which H. P. B.
and Col. Olcott explained their policy and the relations
of The Society with the Arya Samaj. An election of Officers
1This title given to the Great White Brotherhood, meant also one
•or more of the rank of “ Adept-Brother.’ ’
124 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
was held when, in addition to those already holding office,
Dr. Wyld and Dr. Billing1were elected Vice-Presidents.
The Colonel, Dr. Billing and Wimbridge had gone,
6 January, to enquire about steamers, and while walking in
a fog down Cannon Street, all three saw one of the Elder
Brethren. When they returned to Norwood H. P. B. and
Mrs. Billing told them of the visit of this Elder Brother during
their absence. One evening Massey and Stainton Moses
dined with them, and afterwards H. P. B. explained the
problem of her dual nature and the law which it illustrated.
Unfortunately no record has been kept of this explanation.
While in London the Colonel bought a new phonograph.
He had for it some of the early type of tinfoil records of the
voices of H. P. B., Judge, himself and others—giving mes­
sages to India. Unhappily the tinfoil records became almost
flattened out and could not afterwards be received on to wax
cylinders, so the record of H. P. B.’s voice was lost. These
records were loaned out frequently in India, sometimes for
Masonic festivals !
On 17 January Col. Olcott sent to America what he
called Foreign Order, No. I :
“ By virtue of the authority vested in me, I hereby
designate and assign the following named Fellows of The
Theosophical Society to perform the duties of the offices
respectively named, with full power.
President, ad interim, Fellow Major-Gen. Abner Double­
day, U.S.A. ; Corresponding Secretary, ad interim. Fellow
David A. Curtis Treasurer, Fellow George Valentine
Maynard ; The Recording Secretary, Fellow W. Q. J., will
officially notify them of this order, and after consultation with
1He presently turned against The Society. Mrs. Billing had
been for many years a well-known American physical medium, and her
spirit guide was known as “ Ski." Through this guide, who claimed to
be a messenger of the Masters, messages were given and phenomena
performed during their stay.
- Curtis was the journalist who had made witty fun of the Founders
in the New York newspapers.
IN INDIA 125
Fellow Doubleday, call an early meeting of the Society’s
officers to carry out certain instructions which that gentleman
has received, among which are a change of the pass-words.
By authority of the .’. 1H. S. Olcott, President, T. S.” '
This instruction was that the work of The Society should
be carried on pending whatever decisions should be arrived
at in India, which were to be entirely at the discretion of the
two Founders.
H. P. B., the Colonel and Wimbridge left London on the
evening of 17 January and, with Miss Bates, embarked on
the 18th on the “ Speke H all”—a narrow, uncomfortable
vessel, but they could not afford anything better. Though
they sailed at dawn, yet it was 3 p.m. before they got any­
thing to eat. Luckily they had some bread and butter left in
their basket. H. P. B. “ pervaded the saloon with her impiety
and dazzled with her musical talent.” One of the passen­
gers was Ross Scott, a young Judge in the Indian
Civil Service, who, after long talks with them, joined The
Society and was initiated during the voyage.
At Malta they went ashore and sent a cablegram to Hurry-
chand, which depleted their small resources. “ The Vener­
able Tuitit Bey passing near the [Suez] Canal sends greeting"
wrote Col. Olcott in his Diary, 3 February.
The party sat up on the night of the 16th till they sighted
the lights of Bombay. Next morning Mulji Thackersey,
Shyamji Krishnavarma' and others, at once came on board to
greet them. Hurrychand they missed, so they went on to
their bungalow. Col. Olcott had written to Hurrychand from
New York to engage for them a small clean house in the
1These three dots are used throughout the D i a r y to indicate “ The
Lodge.”
2This “ Order ” is taken verbatim from the D i a r y . See also O ld
D i a r y L e a v e s, II, p. 8.
'To whom H. P. B. and Col. Olcott had written from New York,
strongly objecting to the terms under which he was to assist Prof. (Sir)
Monier Williams, the Orientalist. These letters have just been presented
to the Archives.
126 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Indian quarter, and as few servants as were indispensable,
since they did not wish “ to waste a penny on luxuries.”
The small house belonged to Hurrychand, who had a large
photographic studio in the same compound, in which a
reception in their honour was given next day. They made
speeches, and were enchanted with the warmth of their wel­
come. As the whole Indian Press had announced their
arrival, visitors poured in upon them—heads of Government,
departments, Editors of influential newspapers, noted Profes­
sors in the Colleges, some British, and Hindus and Parsis by
the room-full. They visited Indian homes, and presented
prizes at schools. A special performance of the Ramayana
was given in their honour. It began at 9 p.m. and was still
in full swing when they left at 2.45 next morning.
The Colonel discussed with Indian business men the
possibilities of becoming an agent for Indian products
—Poona figurines, tiger skins and perfumes—for the
United States. He wrote to Colgate and Co. to advise having
their oils and essences made in India, and to Dr. Billing about
the introduction of his disinfectant. For about two years
these commercial efforts went on, for funds were a serious
matter to the small household, especially as financial aid from
previous business ventures in the United States had failed.
When H. P. B.’s articles and stories for Russian papers began
to pay again, and The Theosophist was firmly established, these
brought in enough for their modest needs, and the business
activities gradually ceased.
At the end of their first week came the reckoning with
Hurrychand. To their dismay they found that there was
reason in his efforts to prevent them from coming. He had
diverted to his own pockets the whole of the funds, over
Rs. 600, sent for the Arya Samaj. A clamour arose among
Hurrychand’s Arya Samajist colleagues, and H. P. B. com­
pelled him to promise restitution. After some unhappy inter­
views the money was remitted to the Samaj. They found
that he had charged them heavily for all the hospitality
IN INDIA 127
and welcome. They were deeply chagrined, and set about
finding a new home.
On 25 February began a correspondence with A. P.
Sinnett, the well-known editor of India’s then most influential
newspaper, The Pioneer, and who had the confidence and
respect of the chief Government officials. Mr. Sinnett was
already interested in mediumistic phenomena, but sought
further light upon his experiences. He was willing to give
fair notices in his newspaper of The Society’s mission,
and invited correspondence.
As H. P. B. had been annoyed at slighting remarks
made in a Bombay newspaper about Col. Olcott, she replied
in a very strong, not very wisely worded letter in the
Indian Spectator, 2 March 1879, laid herself open to misunder­
standing and angry retort, and thus set going some of those
causes which repercussed so violently upon her a few years
afterwards. It is as well to repeat her words in order
to understand how deeply they would annoy : “ . . . India
owes to the British Government its educational system, its
slow but sure progress, its security . . . to Christianity it owes
nothing—but the Mutiny . . . Christianity should beware
of aggressiveness—there are 64,000 mistakes in the Bible . . .’’
On 7 March the party moved into another bungalow,—
108, Girgaum Back Road, a modest home, sparsely fur­
nished. Here, in the evenings, a large number of people
frequently gathered to discuss history, philosophy and reli­
gion. They went to a lecture and had their feelings
shocked when the lecturer, before speaking, offered a prayer
to “ God.’’ When K. R. Cama, the celebrated Parsi Orient­
alist came to see him, the Colonel broached to him the idea
of a “ Parsi Section of The Theosophical Society.” A
notable visitor and warm friend was J. Sakharam Gadgil,
L.L.B., later a Judge in Baroda—who was most helpful in
explaining India and her sacred literature to him. There
were others, men of ability and learning, who seemed ready
and eager to help.
128 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
But in those days any such close fraternisation with
Indians, however exalted their station, was distrusted.
Indians themselves dropped out here and there at a hint that
their posts might be uncertain because of their connection
with such a Society—suspected of political activities, despite
all disclaimers. A paper belonging to the Presbyterian
Marathi Mission libelled them, and retracted upon threatened
legal proceedings. But the Founders were happy, despite
all troubles, especially Col. Olcott who never ceased to
love the country of his adoption. They had much compen­
sation in the constant indications of the Masters’ interest in
their efforts.
In some trepidation the Colonel prepared for his first
public lecture in India. It was given in the Framji Cowasji
Hall, 23 March. H. P. B., Wimbridge and Miss Bates
were on the platform with him. His subject was “ The
Theosophical Society and its Aims.” He said that the
first clause in the Bye-Laws affirmed that the objects of
The Society were to obtain a knowledge of all the whole
range of natural phenomena, and of everything that
concerned man and his surroundings. He thought that the
spiritual teacher would in due course appear, who would help
India to awaken. The meeting was a huge success, the hall
was crowded. The lecture created a great impression, and
the Colonel was deeply affected by the friendliness of his
reception. The Press gave his speech wide publicity.
It was new to Indians to hear a foreigner extoll their religions
and urge them to evolve their own leaders. Many of the
papers were pessimistic, and said there was little use talking
to Indians of regeneration ; but most welcomed eagerly the
call to all Indians to make common cause for the spiritual
regeneration of their country.
Next day the Colonel began framing and discussing with
others new Rules, and arranging a new Council of The
Society, since the rest of the early members were so far
away it was impossible to transact business with them.
IN INDIA 129
H. P. B.’s ability to produce phenomena had, of course,
been much bruited abroad, and various demonstrations had
already occurred, the most important of which happened in
March, when H. P. B., taking with her only Mulji Thacker-
sey, drove off to a secluded bungalow in a beautiful garden
where she entered alone. She told Mulji afterwards that she
had private business with the great Occultists who inhabited
it. Though he tried, Mulji could not again find the
bungalow.
Colonel Olcott began to write for the papers, his
first article being on Theosophical Thaumaturgy, in the
Bombay Gazette. The first of that wonderful collection of
valuable books which now forms the Adyar Library was
begun in March, when Shankar Pandurang presented a copy
of his translation of the R ig Veda to The Society.
On 4 April, H.P.B., Col. Olcott and Mulji set out upon an
adventurous journey to the Karli Caves, where they were to
make still other contacts with the Elder Brethren, or Their
agents. It was upon the incidents of this journey that
H. P. B. wove and embroidered with such effect the stories
to be found in her delightful book, Caves and Jungles o f
Hindusthan. They were instructed to go to Rajputana and
there receive the answer to certain questions the Colonel had
asked.1
Arrangements were made to meet Swami Dayanand in
the North, so H. P. B. and Col. Olcott started out on
11 April to visit Rajputana, as had been directed. Mulji
accompanied them as interpreter. They went first to Allaha­
bad, and were met by one of Swami Dayanand’s disciples,
who gave them scant welcome and discouragingly said little
could be done in the North-West Provinces, as the people
were so wedded to their idols. They went on to Cawnpore,
where Ross Scott was stationed. With him they visited
1The story of this visit is to be found in O l d D i a r y L e a v e s, Vol. II,
p. 46, et seq. The telegram received in answer to the note flung out
of the window of the train on the way back, is still in the D ia r y ( o r 1879.
9
130 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Yogis and sought “ wonders,” but found little more than
amusing, if at times uncomfortable, expeditions. In Bhurt-
pore they were hospitably received by the State in the person
of the Dewan, as the Maharaja was absent. They felt them­
selves to be in the very heart of the country where their own
Master had ruled in the past, and of which race He still
wears the stately type of body. On the night of 19 April Col.
Olcott received the promised answer to his request, which
had been that he might be allowed to go, as H. P. B. had
done, and live with the Masters. The reply was that the
surest way to Them, for a member, was through faithful
work in The Theosophical Society. At Jeypore they had the
unpleasant experience of finding that a police officer was
watching them. On protesting to the Political Agent they
were graciously treated—but the detective remained. The
Colonel and Mulji had an audience of the Raja, who
invited them to his palace. They moved in next day, but
found their quarters empty, dusty, neglected, and spent an
uncomfortable night. In the morning the Raja turned them
out, without explanation ; but probably he feared the rumours
that they were suspected. On complaint to the Agent, he
was courteous, and provided them with carriages and
elephants to visit Amber. They visited other chiefs and
were visited by influential Hindus, who discussed philosophy
and The Society with them. Having decided to go to
Saharanpur to meet Swami Dayanand, they arrived there on
29 April, and were made welcome by the local Samaj mem­
bers. Two days later the Swami arrived and they were
impressed by his learning, dignity and vigour. To­
gether they discusssed with him Nirvana and Moksha
(Liberation) and God, in ways to which they could take no
exception.
They talked over with the Swami the new Rules of The
Theosophical Society, and he accepted a place on the Council.
He gave the Colonel full proxy powers, explained spiritual­
istic phenomena in the same way as did H. P. B., in whose
IN INDIA 131
demonstrations he was deeply interested, and approved the
Sectarian sections of The Society. On the 3rd, they went
with the Swami to Meerut, and on the way discussed with
him about making three Masonic degrees for the First Sec­
tion of The Theosophical Society. He promised to prepare
these, and to assist him they agreed to send him the “ Sat
Bhai ” rituals.
They were welcomed at Meerut, housed elegantly and
well cared for. To a large audience, Col. Olcott showed
how necessary for their mutual physical and spiritual welfare
was a better understanding between the East and the West.
Mulji translated, and the Swami gave an address.
The Founders departed for Bombay, the detective still
with them. On arrival, H. P. B. faced him, and told him
what she thought of him. They drove straight to the U. S.
Consul to explain. He was indignant, and promised to ask
an explanation. Subsequently, the Colonel saw a letter from
the Foreign Secretary admitting that the Government had
caused them to be watched. Col. Olcott urged the Consul
to demand that he and H. P. B. should receive a free pass­
port over India.
A friendly letter offering sympathy and support was
received from S. K. Ghose, Editor of the important Amrita
Bazar Patrika, Calcutta. He remained a life-long friend,
being deeply interested in the Founders’ defence and inter­
pretation of India’s sacred Scriptures.
On 13 May, the General Council met, and, on the
Swami’s recommendation, expelled Hurrychand. As the
editor of the Missionary paper Dnyanodaya was present
at a meeting held next day, the Colonel challenged him to
come -forward and substantiate his libel against them. There
was a lively scene, H. P. B. taking part. The President
instructed his solicitor to demand satisfaction. H. P. B. wrote
an indignant letter to the Times o f India protesting against
Col. Olcott being called a “ secret detective,” and herself
a Princess and Baroness—titles she had forfeited. The
132 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Colonel pointed out that the offending paragraphs, which
various papers had copied from an obscure English journal,
contained ten lies, ten insults and ten calumnies, and was a
malicious fabrication from beginning to end. Full apologies
were made by all the papers concerned.
In addition to his many activities, Col. Olcott began
writing contract letters for the New York Sun, his subject
being conditions in India. H. P. B. wrote incessantly articles
and stories in Russian. She began 23 May to sketch out a
new book on Theosophy. At first it was intended to be a
revised edition of Isis, and the Colonel helped with a Preface,
which was not used. For years the MS. was slowly shaped,
to appear in 1888 as the famous Secret Doctrine.' They had
also the notion of bringing out a series of Oriental books on
Buddhism, etc., which they intended to make into “ a
Theosophical Society Library.” This was the beginning of
the first Theosophical Publishing House—still flourishing
at Adyar. The Colonel was making sales of Isis Unveiled and
of copies of his Inaugural Address.
As both Col. Olcott and H. P. B. were still troubled
by Government suspicions about their intentions, he inter­
viewed the Government Chief Secretary, who advised him
to go to Poona to call upon the Governor, Sir Richard
Temple. The American Consul when told of this, offered to
lend him a proper coat and vest for the interview ! The Chief
Secretary also said the Government would help Col. Olcott
to make trade reports to the U. S.
Both the Founders, and especially H. P. B., had for
years been dealing with an immense correspondence, and
both worked endlessly to cope with it. They decided there­
fore, to start a magazine and call it The Theosophisl. The
Society had no money, but that did not deter them. They
would accept subscriptions only in advance, and thus incur
no debts. Col. Olcott produced a prospectus, in which he
1How this classical book was written is told in the new Adyar
Edition, 1938.
IN INDIA 133
explained that the rapid growth of The Society necessitated
a journal. In America it had been easy to secure Press
publicity, but in India it was different. The Theosophical
Society wished to explore the secret wisdom hidden under
the myths of antiquity. Such a journal as they proposed
would be a channel for Indian Oriental scholars, and they
hoped for the co-operation in their scheme of Eastern and
Western Orientalists. There were Western F. T. S. who
would contribute, eminent literary and scientific men,
authors, journalists and professors ; also distinguished Bud­
dhists in Ceylon, such as Sumangala, the Prince High Priest
of the Island, and the famous Mohattiwatte (or Megi-
tuwatte). They would abstain from politics.
Night after night till 2 a.m. they worked at articles
for the first number ; and on one evening the Master M.
visited them physically to talk it over, and give sugges­
tions. They advertised widely and wrote to everybody, and
subscriptions began to come in, as well as promises of help.
Wimbridge made the design for the cover, but printing
in India had not in those days reached its present excellence,
so it was not a success on the first issue. All this work
meant that more rooms were needed, so a bungalow next
door was taken.
From the names of visitors and correspondents recorded
in Col. Olcott’s Diary, it is clear how great an impres­
sion these two pioneers made in India. Both British and
Indians did them honour, despite any official suspicion there
might be as to the nature of their mission. One joined in
July whose name is often met with in the next few years,
Damodar K. Mavalankar. The Colonel began to arrange
evening lectures on scientific subjects at their own place,
and these were well attended. A donation of Rs. 200
from the Maharani of Cossim Bazaar heartened them ;
but some Rajas wrote that owing to Government pressure
they could not undertake any correspondence with The
Society.
134 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
In August a letter came from Madame Coulomb, then in
Ceylon, saying that there was great excitement in the Island
about the Founders, and that a fund was being raised to
cover the expenses of a visit from them. She sent a copy of
the Ceylon Times, 5 June, in which appeared a letter from her­
self, defending H. P. B. against ill-natured attack. She wrote
that she and her husband were in doleful straits, and would
like to come to Bombay to find some sort of situation.
H. P. B. told Col. Olcott that Mme Coulomb had been kind
to her in Cairo, after the blowing up of her steamer in the
Piraeus. They agreed that in common gratitude the Coulombs
must be helped.
Col. Olcott gave an address, 14 September, to the
Bombay Arya Samaj, on “ The Useful Arts." He arranged
for a clever young Indian to exhibit a model steam engine
of his own manufacture, as an example of what could be
done in the country. 1 hough both the Founders were so
busy yet the Colonel was studying Patanjali’s Yoga Philoso­
phy, for he was deeply interested in “ Yoga Vidya.” When
time permitted both he and H. P. B. took lessons in Hindi.
The magazine was ready to appear, but on the morning
of the 28 September (Sunday), they had to get up at 5.30 to
seek out the printer and make certain changes requested
over-night by one of the Masters. Very eagerly they awaited
the first bundles of The Theosophist, 400 copies of which were
delivered ready for its birthday on 1st October—“ a 32-page,
royal 4to, monthly journal, of great merit—the organ of The
Theosophical Society . . . received from the printer. Wel­
come Stranger.” 1 It was entitled : " Om, T he THEOSOPHIST,
a Monthly Journal devoted to Oriental Philosophy, Art,
Literature and Occultism. Conducted by H. P. BLAVATSKY,
under the auspices of The Theosophical Society.” In the
morning all were busy “ pasting and directing the wrappers ;
making city and country lists ; sending out peons to deliver
in the city ; receiving congratulations, taking new subscrip-
1 D ia r y , 30 September, 1879.
IN INDIA 135
tions. . . . Fiat Lux : Fiat Lux." Favourable opinions
on the Journal were expressed throughout the country and
congratulations poured in.
A splendid reception was arranged for their party by the
Jain community, 4 October, at which Col. Olcott ex­
plained the influences that in the West had “ de-spiritualised
religion,” and the necessity to lay Eastern ideas before the
world. Another Jain organisation invited him to speak on
the killing of animals. To a packed audience he stressed
the One Life in all, the “ true Brotherhood of Humanity ”
with all creatures, and decried all forms of torture.
Before long The Theosophist office was transferred to the
second bungalow, where the Library was also housed.
They borrowed some of the furniture for it, and were given
presents to make it more habitable. By 30 October they had
381 registered subscribers for the magazine, and decided to
print 750 copies for the next issue, for which they had more
material than space.
On 23 November a meeting was convened in their own
Hall to inaugurate an Aryan Temperance Society. It seemed
a shame to Col. Olcott that leading Hindus and Parsis
should be indifferent to the spread of intemperance in India,
and leave it to missionaries to carry out alone any counter
movement.
But the special interest was the preparation for the
Fourth Anniversary of The Society, which was celebrated
29 November—so different from that of the First in 1876, in
Mott Memorial Hall, New York, when the few members
held a private meeting. The publicity they had received in
India seemed to justify a change of policy.
They decided to celebrate three events : The Society’s
Fourth Anniversary, the founding of The Theosophist, and the
opening of the Library. For illumination they had lamps
and lanterns, carpets were spread, 400 chairs placed, a band
of 20 performers, and a display of Indian goods—the first
Swadeshi exhibition. There were a few English guests and
136 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
about 500 Indians. Speeches were made by K. T. Telang
(the Orientalist), Col. Olcott and others.
During these busy months there had been constant
correspondence with Mr. and Mrs. Sinnett, who invited the
Founders to visit Allahabad as their guests. Evidently they
could not afford to travel first class, for the Diary records that
sleeping was difficult on hard wooden seats, but they
took a camp bed for H. P. B. Damodar went with them.
They reached Allahabad, 5 December, and were met by
Mr. Sinnett’s barouche and pair, with coachman and two syces
(grooms). They thoroughly enjoyed their hosts’ spacious com­
fortable bungalow. Many English people called upon them,
among them A. O. Hume, Member of the Revenue Board,
N. W. P. and former Secretary to the Governor. Mrs. Alice
Gordon came to spend the day. She, with her husband,
Lt. Col. W. Gordon, had recently joined and he was made
a Councillor. In 1883 he was described by the Master K. H.
as “ a loyal friend and trustworthy ally.” The Founders
went into the city to meet Hindus, and to discuss religious
matters. The President gave a public lecture at Mayo Hall
on “ Theosophy and its Relation to India.” Hume took the
chair and gave a charming little speech.
Accompanied by the Sinnetts and others the party
went to Benares 15 December, and were invited to be
the guests of the Maharaja of Vizianagram, in a small
palace in a lovely garden. Swami Dayanand was there to
greet them. In the evening H. P. B. and Sinnett argued
hotly on phenomena. Sinnett contended that she should
use her psychic force, of which she could expend only a given
amount, for doing phenomena for men of science, under test
conditions. As she had given a Professor of Physical Science
at Allahabad a carefully arranged test, at the end of which
he declared her a trickster, she was in no mood to concede
Sinnett’s point.
They visited Ma-ji, a learned Yogini, who lived in a
cave on the banks of the Ganges about two miles from
- IN INDIA 137
Benares, where she had inherited a house and an extensive
and valuable Sanskrit Library. She paid them a return
visit, a rare honour, and alleged that the real H. P. B. was
a Southern Hindu, who had taken this incarnation to
carry Eastern Philosophy to the West. She revealed that
she was also a pupil of the same Master as themselves.
On 17 December a meeting of the small General
Council was held at the Palace of H. H. the Maharaja of
Vizianagram, at which H. P. B., Col. Olcott and Swami
Dayanand were present. The Rules of The Theosophical
Society or Universal Brotherhood were revised. Two days
later the Colonel addressed a large audience in the Town
Hall, his subject being “ The Material and Spiritual Needs
of India.” Ife illustrated his talk by showing, from specimens
he had bought in the bazaar, how deteriorated were the
beautiful ancient arts of India. He urged their revival.
The Literary Society of Benares convened a meeting,
and with stately courtesy the Pandits assembled did honour
to the man and the Society which so openly took interest in
Sanskrit Literature and Indian Philosophy. As a result of
Col. Olcott’s speech the Pandits agreed to form a Philologic­
al Committee, in order to meet the need of an indigenous
nomenclature for technical foreign words coming into use.
The Principal of the Benares College was the learned
Prof. G. Thibaut, deeply versed in Sanskrit. Visits with
him were exchanged, and he found that H. P. B. could
make clear some knotty points in the Sankhya philoso­
phy that had baffled great scholars. In the evenings a com­
pany of guests, including the Swami, gathered to discuss the
Siddhis (psychic powers) which most, the learned Pandits
included, declared were no longer cultivated, whatever may
have been done in ancient days. This was too much for
H. P. B. ; she caused a shower of red roses to fall from the
ceiling into their midst.
The party left for Allahabad, 22 December, to stay
again with the Sinnetts. The President spoke to Indians
138 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
at the Allahabad Institute on “ Ancient Aryavart and
Modern India,” and H. P. B. was moved to make a short
speech, “ compact and good." On the 26th they initiated
into The Society both Mr. and Mrs. Sinnett, at which cere­
mony the voice of an Elder Brother was heard welcoming
them. The Sinnetts gave them a dinner party to meet the
chief European officials. Prof. Adityaram Bhattacharya
most orthodox of Brahmans, and famous Sanskritist, joined
The Society. Another visitor was Mr. Syed Mahmood, a
scholar whose family had great influence among Mahom-
madans. So much did the President feel that every cause
was the cause of The Society, that when the Director of
Agriculture, N. W. P., came to stay with the Sinnetts, he had
an animated talk with him on that subject, and the President
felt he had “ effected an important alliance between The
Theosophical Society and Government for the improvement
of Indian agriculture.”
Having found that a train leaving on the 31st was
fitted with cushions, the party left that night for Bombay.
As they rode through India in the dark they thought of the
previous year when they were on the Atlantic, looking eager­
ly forward to India ; and though the year had opened with
clouds, treachery and disappointment, it ended big with pro­
mise for the future. The President closed an eventful year
with this vow : “ Masters and Brothers ! my soul and strength
are vowed to the holy cause of HUMANITY.”
1880
The first formal meeting in India of The Theosophical
Society was held, 4 January, in the Library at the Bombay
Headquarters. The bookcases were well filled, the table was
covered with journals, maps and diplomas hung on the walls ;
there were a platform for the speaker, a fine carved
Presidential chair, a table and a bell. Col. Olcott was in
evening dress, and wore a “ presidential cap ” which H. P. B.
IN INDIA 139
had made for him, Three candidates were impressively
initiated.
The appearance of The Theosophist had only added
to the Founders’ work instead of lessening it, also to their
correspondence. But to their satisfaction it began to pay
its way. The Masters regarded The Theosophist as Their
journal and wrote : “ If we wanted anything about our lives
and work to be known is not the Theosophist . . . open,
to us ? " 1 A further relief was the news that H. P. B. was
to be well paid, at the rate of 50 Roubles (£5) per page
for her Caves and Jungles o f Hindusthan stories, which
“ made her famous throughout the length and breadth of
Russia.”
The President gave a course of weekly lectures in the
Library to the members, on Mesmerism, Psychometry, Crystal
reading and allied subjects, with experimental illustrations.
He held the view that Mesmerism was the alphabet of the
Indian secret Yogic science, and induced the clairvoyant vision
by means of which the inner laws of the Universe could be
studied.
Neither Col. Olcott nor H. P. B. spared themselves,
despite the climate. When visitors claimed their time through­
out the day, they sat up till 2 or 4 a.m. to get through their
many tasks. Of course their health suffered, but they paid
little attention to that. Sometimes to get coolness and fresh
air they would take a midnight drive.
On 5 February a meeting of the Council was held,
when those present were : The President, H. P. B., Desh-
mukh, Seervai, Wimbridge and Damodar. Deshmukh was
elected a Vice-President, and Damodar, Assistant Recording
Secretary, in addition to W. Q. Judge. On the 15th, the
anniversary of their arrival in India, the Founders looked
back and saw The Theosophical Society as stronger than
they had dared to hope, and with a splendid future stretching
before it. “ We have done some good, and will do far more.
1T h e M a h a tm a L etters, p. 260.
140 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHiCAL SOCIETY
Ah ! India, thou stricken land, thou needest all the help that
the least of thy well-wishers can give thee. Well, so be it ;
a wise hand guides the helm.” 1 In January Baron J. du
Potet, the great French mesmerist, joined The Society and
was made a Vice-President.
The revised Rules were brought up for consideration at
a meeting of The Society held on the 26th and 28th February,
and were ratified by the Council—to which body the Presi­
dent was adding members chosen not only from India, but
from many other countries. This international Council was
the forerunner of the later General Council which consists of
officers of the Society and General Secretaries, ex-officio, with
some Additional Members.
The President instituted a Medal of Honour, made of
pure silver and suitably engraved, which was to be awarded
annually to the Indian author of the best essay upon any
subject connected with their ancient religions, philosophies
or sciences, preferably the occult or mystical branch of
science as known and practised by the ancients. He appoint­
ed a committee of four Indians as judges—one each in
Bombay, Madras, Poona and Calcutta. The essays sent in
were not found worthy of the distinction, so the idea went
into abeyance till 1883, when the Subba Row Medal was
established and ever since has been awarded fairly regularly
to leading Theosophical writers.
Several times Col. Olcott had been struck by the fact
that Europeans in positions of authority seemed to know so
little of the Indians. He brought them together whenever
possible. Mrs. Francis Murray, wife of Col. Murray, Chief of
Artillery, came to dine with them when on her way to
England in March, and was initiated into The Society.
The President called upon several of the Indian members to
make short speeches, and also to send messages by her to
the London Branch. She admitted her astonishment and
■delight to find so much culture and intelligence among them,
1D ia r y , February, 1880.
IN INDIA 141
for in her eighteen years in India she had never spoken to
any Indian but her servants.
The first lecture expressive of the second Object of The
Society, was given by K. N. Seervai on “ The Spiritual
Science of the Zoroastrians.” On 9 March an extra meeting
was held to initiate Khan Bahadur N. D. Khandala-
vala. On the 18th came a “ severe and scornful”
letter from Swami Dayanand, returning his diploma and
ordering that his name be taken from the roll, and relations
with him became unsatisfactory and strained. At the
end of the month M. and Mme Coulomb arrived and were
invited to stay until they procured employment. Col.
Olcott found Coulomb a post in a cotton mill, but he soon
lost it owing to his quick temper, though he was a good
mechanic. As Mme Coulomb was practical and hard-work­
ing, she was entrusted with the housekeeping. Both joined
The Society.
M. Leymarie wrote from France sending the names of
fourteen new members—among them those of C. Flammarion,
the astronomer, Baron Spedalieri, an erudite Kabalist and
pupil of Eliphas Levi, and Eugene Nus the writer. The
President asked Leymarie to form a Branch of The Theo-
sophical Society, to include the adherents of Kardec, Eliphas
Levi and du Potet. In April a Charter was sent to Corfu to
regularise the Ionian Theosophical Society.
At a Council meeting held on 7 April, a list of Vice-Presi­
dents, Councillors and Secretaries was completed. On the 18th
and 25th meetings were held to organise a Bombay Branch
and elect officers. It was named the Bombay Theosophical
Society, which was the customary way of naming Branches
in those days. The Charter was delivered to the Branch
on 2 May, at which meeting Tookaram Tatya was initiated.
He was a well-known, affluent business man, and was always
generous in his assistance to The Society, and especially
aided in the publication of books. The Bombay Branch
was given jurisdiction over Theosophic affairs throughout
142 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
the Bombay Presidency. This was done to relieve the
“ Executive Officers of the Parent Society ” because of the
increasing demands upon their time. It was the incipient
idea of Federations within Sections. On the 17th, H. P. B.,
as Corresponding Secretary, wrote to General Doubleday
notifying him that he had been “ elected as a Vice-President.”
His position as President pro-tem. came therefore to an end.
By this time The Theosophist was being sent to 177 towns in
India and to 55 places abroad, including : England, 11 ;
U. S. A. 16 ; Ceylon, 6 ; and to Russia, Norway, Greece,
France, the Philippines, Australia, etc.
In April the Founders received “ orders ” to go to
Ceylon to organise a Branch. They had been in constant
correspondence with Sumangala, and J. R. de Silva, the
first lay member of The Society in Ceylon, who had
joined by correspondence in 1877. After working hard
to leave enough material ready for The Theosophist,
the party set off on 7 May. It was composed of the two
Founders, E. Wimbridge, Damodar, two other Hindus,
and two Parsis ; these latter went as Delegates from the
Bombay Branch to the Buddhists, carrying fraternal greet­
ings to show the tolerance of The Society in religious
matters. On arrival in Colombo they were met by J. R.
de Silva and Megituwatte, who was the brilliant and
powerful champion of Buddhism, a fearless debater, and
leader of the revival of Buddhism in Ceylon. H. P. B. had
sent him a presentation copy of Isis Unveiled when it first
appeared, and he was now on the General Council of The
Society. The party disembarked at Galle on 17 May.
H.P.B. had shown some phenomena on board, and the story
of this at once flew abroad and increased the enthusiasm
and tumult of their reception. At the house of their hostess
priests received and blessed them, gifts were showered upon
them, and a multitude crowded about them. H. P. B. repeat­
ed twice the phenomena of causing names to appear on
handkerchiefs, and the excitement was intense, and increased
IN INDIA 143
throughout the tour. As they went along the most pious
and revered ladies came in their richest attire to show their
respect for her.
The President was advised to send invitations to the
Europeans and Burghers (half-Dutch, half-Sinhalese) to join in
forming a Branch of The Theosophical Society. They replied
that they were Christians, and wished to have nothing to do
either with Theosophy or Buddhism. He gave his first
public lecture on the 22nd, stating the aims of The Theo­
sophical Society, to which a packed audience listened in
deep silence.
In the temple, 25 May, and in the presence of their
priest-friend Bulatgama, a great crowd witnessed H. P. B.
and Col. Olcott take “ Pansil ”—a formal acceptance of the
Five chief Precepts of the Buddha—thus acknowledging
themselves as Buddhists, to the immense pleasure of the
public. The Colonel was careful to write : “ Our Buddhism
was that of the Master Adept Gautama Buddha, which was
identically the Wisdom Religion of the Aryan Upanishads,
and the soul of all the ancient world-faiths. Our Buddhism
was, in a word, a philosophy, not a creed.”
While they were in Galle, a steamer carrying the King of
/ Siam and his suite came into the harbour. His ambassador
called upon H. P. B. and the President, and arranged that
the King should become a member of The Theosophical
Society.1
The Galle Theosophical Society was formed on 25 May.
Donations began to come in for a Buddhist Publication
Fund. From Galle the party went slowly northward and
were met right royally by monks and laymen alike,
involving long processions and addresses to the large crowds.
And so to Colombo, where Sumangala awaited them, and the
crowds were greater than ever. The newspapers were full
of stories about them. The Christians were not pleased,
for Col. Olcott’s chief objective was to arouse the Buddhists
1His signed photograph is still in the Archives.
144 'A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
and induce them to reaffirm the splendour and beauty of their
own religion. He lectured on “ Theosophy and Buddhism.”
Struck by the fact that the education of Buddhist children
was entirely in the hands of missionaries, Col. Olcott began
at once to appeal to the Buddhists to take the matter up.
A Colombo Theosophical Society was organised, also a
Buddhist Section ; and, as priests may not mingle on equal
terms with laymen, this was to have two divisions, one for
priests and one for the public. At Kandy they had a magni­
ficent reception, chiefs temporal and chiefs ecclesiastical
showing them every honour. Missionaries had preached
bitterly against them and their views, but a great crowd
packed the hall for the President’s lecture on “ The Life of
the Buddha and Its Lessons.” The Kandy Theosophical
Society was organised. An unusual and high honour was
conferred upon the party by admitting them to a special
exhibition of “ the Tooth ” relic.
Col. Olcott received a challenge to debate the Christian
religion. It was difficult to find an opponent, till at last an
unordained man with heterodox views was rather insultingly
offered. An odd sort of meeting was arranged, at which
each party refused the nominee of the other to be chairman.
Finally the Colonel took charge of the situation, explained
what had occurred, and then closed the meeting amid the
applause of the Buddhists. On the way back to Galle many
members were initiated and further Branches organised, to
the accompaniment of the same splendid receptions.
At Galle Mrs. Cecilia Dias Ilangakoon was a generous
benefactor. She caused to be prepared a valuable set of the
Tripitaka1 for the Adyar Library. The Colonel made it his
business in the interests of Brotherhood to bring about a
kindlier feeling between the two main Buddhist groups—the
1 Tripilaka means “ Three Baskets.” 1. The Basket of Discipline,
including the Life of the Buddha, and the Rules for the Priesthood ; 2.
The Basket of Discourses, containing His Teachings ; 3. The Basket of
Abhidhamma, concerning the Four Ultimate Things : (a) Consciousness,
(¿>
) Mental Properties, (c) Matter, (d) The Universe.
IN INDIA 145
Siam and the Amarapura; the priests of the former receive
ordination from Siam and the latter from Burma. There is
no doctrinal division between them.
On 5 July the President held a Convention of the newly
formed Branches—Kandy, Colombo, Panadure, Bentoba,
Galle and Matara; the seventh Branch was formed a few
days later at Welitara. By this time every priest of influence
had joined The Theosophical Society and also the Buddhist
League to promote unity.
A great farewell was given them on 13 July, when the
party left Ceylon, after nearly two months of strenuous work,
especially on the part of the President, upon whose health
the strain had told. On arriving back in Bombay they
heard of the passing of Mulji Thackersey, and greatly re­
gretted his loss. In the little household they found Miss
Bates and Mme Coulomb at loggerheads, and unfortunately
the difficulties were discussed at length in the newspapers.
It ended in Wimbridge taking the part of Miss Bates and
both leaving. Wimbridge set up a successful business in
Bombay and Miss Bates disappeared, after her resignation*
was demanded and given.
The Bombay Branch had grown apathetic during their
absence and had to be revived, though it had taken an active
interest in the household troubles. The Master gave the
Founders advice as to how to deal with the situation. This
was the first of many lessons in The Society of the advis­
ability of not allowing personal problems to outweigh allegi­
ance to ideals.
On 27 August H. P. B. and Col. Olcott went to Simla
to stay with Mr. and Mrs. Sinnett. They paused at Meerut
to visit Swami Dayanand, and found him much changed.
They had long arguments with him about his belief in a
“ personal God.” The Colonel lectured on “ The Theo­
sophical Society and the Arya Samaj, their Rules and
Mutual Relations.” It was agreed that neither Society
should be held responsible for the views of the other.
10
146 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Ever sensitive to the opinion of Society and especially
here at Simla in the heart of the powerful Anglo-Indian1
community, Sinnett advised the Founders to have a holiday
and to say nothing about The Theosophical Society or Theo­
sophy. They were much sought after and entertained. The
Sinnetts and the Humes gave dinner parties for them; as
did the Director General of the P. O. in India—at which
were present the Secretaries of the Home and Foreign Depart­
ments, and other Civil and Military authorities. Mr. Sinnett
and H. P. B. attended the Simla Fine Arts Society’s Annual
Exhibition, at which H. P. B. had an interview with Major
Henderson, who expressed a desire to join The Society. He
was Chief of Police, and had been responsible for the
espionage set over the Founders. He came frequently to see
H. P. B., and was deeply interested in her phenomena.
On 3 October the Sinnetts arranged a picnic, at which
H.P.B., performed the famous duplication of a tea-cup' which
was dug up out of the earth by Major Henderson. He de­
clared he was willing to join The Society if H. P. B. would
produce his diploma then and there. She pointed to a low-
growing cedar tree and told him to search there for it. He
did so, and found a diploma properly made out with his
name and that day’s date and Col. Olcott’s signature, and
a letter from him in his own handwriting—which he had not
written. Later in the day there was no water for tea. The
servants could obtain none. H. P. B. came to the rescue by
putting an empty bottle in the loose sleeve of her gown, and
then bringing it out filled with clearest filtered water. On the
way back doubts assailed Henderson and two others.
They went back to examine the place, and suggested
the cup might have been previously buried; this despite the
fact that the cup was well embedded in roots and there was
1A term then denoting the British in India, now used exclusively for
those of mixed parentage, born in India, who were formerly called
Eurasians.
2The tea-cup is still in the Headquarters’ Museum.
IN INDIA 147
no sign of the earth having been tampered with. He demand­
ed that H. P. B. should produce other phenomena under
tests of his own devising, otherwise he would brand the
whole thing as humbug. H. P. B. flatly refused to do so.
That night under her directions Mrs. Hume’s long-lost
brooch was found in a flower-bed.1 These two incidents
set all India talking, as they received much publicity.
As a result of this visit both Mr. Sinnett and Mr. Hume '
were put into communication with the Master K. H. Mr.
Hume never really understood the Masters or Their work,
and finally left the Society. The correspondence with
Mr. Sinnett, begun in October, went on for about four years,
till he had sufficient instruction in Occult Science to enable him
to outline a philosophy which followed the ancient teachings
to be found in the profoundest Scriptures of the world.
On 6 October the President initiated into The Society
three army officers, thus providing the nucleus of a Simla
Branch. This was first thought of as a sort of Psychic Club,
but became the Anglo-Indian Branch of The Theosophical
Society, chartered August 1881. On 7 October the Colonel
gave a lecture on “ Spiritualism and Theosophy ” which the
élite of Simla attended. The Masters took considerable
interest in the formation of this Branch, as may be seen in
The Mahatma Letters.
During this visit to Simla the President took the oppor­
tunity of approaching the Private Secretary to the Viceroy
and, finding him courteous, wrote to the Government to
assure them that neither he nor H. P. B. nor The Society had
any interest or disposition to meddle in politics, and desired
the cancellation of the distasteful surveillance to which they
had been subjected. He received a reply stating that as
1 For descriptions of these and other phenomena see T h e O c c u lt
W orld , and O l d D ia r y L e a v e s, Voi. 11.
- For the Masters’ estimate of Mr. Hume T h e M a h a tm a L etters
should be studied. He was a brilliant but sceptical man. and could not
bring himself to believe there could be Indians of the calibre suggested
by H. P. B., whose knowledge could be greater than his own.
148 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
long as the members confined themselves to the prosecution
of philosophic and scientific studies wholly unconnected with
politics, they need apprehend no annoyance on the part
of the Police authorities. The Colonel made a good
deal of this reply. His jubilant remarks in a private
letter to Bombay were made public. The Master K. H.
intimated to Mr. Sinnett that if the information given in this
letter had been ‘ anticipated in the Pioneer—a much more
appropriate place, and where they would have been handled
to better advantage—that document would not have been
worth anyone’s while to purloin for the Times o f India and
therefore no names would have appeared.” 1 Major Hender­
son was one of those mentioned, and he wrote to the papers
protesting against the use of his name, and saying he dis­
credited the phenomena of Theosophists and had no inten­
tion of furthering the interests of the Society, either directly
or indirectly. The publication of this purloined letter drew
from the Government the rebuke that while the surveillance
measures were withdrawn, this was done in consequence of
the interest expressed in Col. Olcott by the President of the
United States and the Secretary of State of his Government,
and “ must not be taken to imply any expression of opinion
of the part of the Government of India in regard to The
‘ Theosophical Society ’ of which he was President.” '
On 21 October the Founders left Simla, and at Amritsar
were given a cordial welcome by the still friendly Arya
Samaj. But their eclectic views on different religions
made the Samajists eye them askance. They put the matter
right; and the Colonel lectured twice with good results, even
though his chairman on the first occasion declared the
1T h e M a h a tm a L etters, p. 13.
2See T h eo so p h tst, Jan. 1881, Supp. for Col. Olcott’s special passport
and credentials. He made it clear that after his arrival in India he
had been doing favours for the U. S. State Dept., the quarter-master
General, U. S. A., and the Smithsonian Institution, by the collection of
information about commerce. Army Tentage, and Ethnology. He
invited closest scrutiny of all his documents which showed his status in his
own country.
IN INDIA 149
Founders’ ideas of Brotherhood and Yoga Vidya all humbug.
They were entranced with the charm of the Festival of Lights,
Dewali, to see which they delayed in Amritsar. While
here they received the encouraging news that the Galle
Theosophical Society had opened the first Buddhist Theoso-
phical School with 300 pupils, most of whom were drawn
from Christian Schools.
They went on to Lahore, the headquarters of the
Arya Samaj, whose members received them cordially, the
more so as the Anglo-Indian papers were unfriendly. An
overflowing audience listened to the President’s lecture on
“ India, Past, Present and Future,” a lecture he repeated at
each town. He complained of the paucity of material
in the West for the study of the East. He stressed India’s
great philosophic and national past, and lamented the dis­
appearance of so much of her art and culture. He was the
first to intimate that the Yogic power of thought-communica­
tion outrivalled the Western telegraphic system. But now,
he said, Young India is turning materialistic under the influence
of Western education. Their eyes are not open to the fact
that their teachers are only spoiling their spirituality. He
believed the future would swing to a new era of Indian civili­
sation and culture, and that European education was creating
a new caste which would guide the nation up the hill.
The Colonel gave a second lecture, on “ Ancient
and Modern Psychology.” He then went alone to Multan
and there spoke to good audiences. On his return to
Lahore he found H. P. B. ill with fever, and it was not
until 25 November that she was well enough to leave.
There were, as ever, crowds of visitors all the time, who
were never denied however great the inconvenience. Many
came to argue and discuss, astonished to find “ white ’
people so ready to appreciate their religions and sym­
pathise with their aspirations; and one like H. P. B. who
could always throw light upon the most abstruse problems,
and whose occult knowledge was beyond question. The
150 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Punjab Theosophical Society was organised before they left.
On this and other tours, H. P. B. herself often performed the
little ceremony of initiation of new members. They moved
on to Cawnpore, then to Allahabad where they stayed again
with the Sinnetts. The Colonel went on to Benares, to
visit the Maharaja, who was interested in The Society,
and to lecture. H. P. B. joined him on 11 December,
and together they met and discussed metaphysics with
learned Pandits and with Prof. Thibaut. A conference
with Benares Pandits was arranged by Pramada Das
Mitra at his house. The Pandits were men renowned in
contemporary Sanskrit literary circles, jealous of their posi­
tion and dignity, with great reputations to maintain, and they
considered it an honour to attend this conference. The note­
worthy fact about the meeting was that The Society was now
so well known and the work of the Founders so deeply ap­
preciated, that it was as President of The Theosophical
Society Col. Olcott was honoured. Such was the 1lindu atti­
tude to women in those days that the Pandits preferred that
H. P. B. should not be present. It was proposed that a friend­
ly union be arranged between The Theosophical Society
and the Sanskrit Samaj—to promote a brotherly union of
all friends of Aryan learning throughout the world. The
Pandits recognised that The Theosophical Society was
sincerely devoted to the accomplishment of this most worthy
object and possessed facilities which it was desirable to
enlist. This fraternisation was not to be unrlerstood as mak­
ing either of the two Societies subordinate to the rule or
jurisdiction of the other, but was for the promotion jointly of
Sanskrit Literature and Vedic Philosophy and Science.
The principal officers of the Maharaja’s court called, the
Dewan was permitted to join The Society, and they had long
discussions on the Vedanta. The Maharaja offered H. P. B.
a large sum to perform some “ miracles ” for him. This she
sternly refused to do, but told him where he would find some
important family papers, lost since the Mutiny. It was about
IN INDIA 151
this time that the family motto of the Maharaja of Benares
was, with his permission, adopted as that of the Society and
appeared in The Theosophist. It runs : “ There is no Religion
higher than Truth.” 1
Col. Olcott gave two other lectures: one on “ The
Duty of the Educated Youth of India ” and the other on
1
1Theosophy,” to Europeans in the Cantonment. The lecture
on Youth was the opening of the long and magnificent services
of members of The Society to the cause of Education in
India. The Founders left for Allahabad on 20 December,
H. P. B. suffering from rheumatic fever. There the Colonel
lectured again on India, when the chair was taken by Mr.
Hume, who, in his introductory remarks, said he gather­
ed that The Society had as “ one primary and fundamental
object of its existence the institution of a sort of brotherhood
in which, sinking all distinctions of race and nationality, caste
and creed, all good and earnest men, all who love science,
all who love truth, all who love their fellow men, may meet
as brethren and labour hand in hand in the cause of enlighten­
ment and progress.”
After spending Christmas with Mr. and Mrs. Sinnett,
H. P. B., and Col. Olcott returned to Bombay and were taken
to a new bungalow, the famous “ Crow’s Nest,” on the hill of
Breach Candy. It was open and spacious, and here they
resided till 1882. The bungalow was cheap, as it was
reputed to be haunted, but after one or two incidents at the
beginning there was no further trouble.
Though they travelled about so much The Theosophist
had still to be edited and produced regularly. Col. Olcott
helped with the preparation of material, and wrote a good
deal for it and read proofs, but the touch of genius upon it
during these early j'ears was that of H. P. B. Her “ Foot­
notes ” were always illuminating. She threw the clear light
of Theosophy upon abstruse subjects and problems in
1Taken in a slightly transposed form from the M a h a b h a r a ta , Shanti-
parva, Chap. 160, Stanza 24.
152 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Occultism. The Masters, or Their pupils wrote for it, and so
gave it a rare and precious value.
In 1880 we come to the point where five years of anxiety,
failure, and success, at last showed permanent results in the
firmness with which part at least of the foundations of an
enduring structure were laid. The worst was over and what­
ever trials lay ahead there was now no likelihood that any
storm could damage those foundations. Occasionally the
injury to the superstructure is serious, and requires consider­
able repairs, but the foundations have withstood all assaults
and seem now to be unassailable.
Looking back over the record of the year the President
had every reason to be proud. The influence of The Society
was widening in India and Ceylon. Applications had come
in from France, Australia and America for the formation
of Branches. Friendly alliances had been made with
the Arya Samaj, the Sanskrit Samaj, and the Hindu
Sabha of Cochin. In his report the President pointed out
that The Society “ acts as a guide post to show the weary
traveller his way to his place of destination.” He found it
necessary also to say that “ Because the Rules mention
relationship with the Mahatmas, many people imagine these
great men are personally engaged in directing The Society,
also that the President and Corresponding Secretary (special­
ly the latter) are of ascetic habits and assume moral
superiority. The administration of The Society is, unless in
exceptionally important crises, left to the recognised officials,
and they are wholly responsible for all the errors made.”
E X E C U T IV E O F F IC E R S F O R 1880
P r e s i d e n t : Col. H enry S. Olcott
V ic e - P r e s id e n ts
Rt. Rev. H. Sumangala (Buddhist High Priest)
Baron Jules Denis du Potet
Raja Shyama Shankar Roy
Rao Bahadur Gopalrao Hari Deshmukh
Pandit Adityaram Bhattacharya
Ceylon
France
Bengal
Bombay
N. W. Provinces
IN INDIA 153
Major-Gen. Abner Doubleday
C. C. Massey Esq.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakoff
Signor Pasquale Menelao
U. S. America
England
Russia
Corfu
C o r r e s p o n d in g S e c r e t a r y : H. P. Blavatsky
A ssista n ts to th e C o r r e s p o n d i n g S e c r e t a r y
Rustamji D. Sethna
Damodar K. Mavalankar
Mme. E. Coulomb
Panachand Anandji Parekh
Kallianji Narayanji
Narayan Lakshmaya Bhatkal
K. Venkatrao Narasayya
Sanskrit
Marathi and English
French and Italian
Hindi
Gujerathi
Kanarese
Telugu
J o i n t R e c o r d i n g S e c r e t a r i e s : W illiam Q. Judge, Kharsedji N. Seervai
A ssista n t R e c o r d i n g S e c r e t a r y : Sorabji J amaspji Padshah
T r e a s u r e r : George V alentine M aynard
L ib r a r ia n s : A ugust Gustam [A merica], Sorabji J amaspji P adshah
T h e G e n e r a l C o u n c il
Prof. Alexander Wilder, M.D.
J. H. D. Buck Esq., M.D.
E. Wimbridge Esq., G.R.I.B.A.
The Rt. PIon. The Lord Lindsay
George Wyld Esq., M.D. (Edin.)
Monsieur Camille Flammarion
Rev. Mohattiwatti Gunanande (Buddhist Priest)
Baron Odon van Vay
Dr. Nicolas, Count de Gonemys
The Hon. N. A. Fadeew
Roberto B. Allen Esq.
David E. Dudley Esq., M.D.
Count de Nichichievich de Nichea
Lt. Col. W. Gordon, Staff Corps
Rao Bahadur J. Sakhariim Gadgil, b.a., ll.b.
Babu Sishir Kumar Ghose
Babu Jwala Sahaie
Keshow Narsing Mavalanka Esq.
Vinayek R. Patwardhan Esq., B.A., LL.B.
Pandit Jaswant Roy Bhojapatra
Kavasji Merwanji Shroff, Esq,
Moolji Thackersey Esq.
Pandit Mohumlal Vishnulal Pandea
New York, U.S.A.
Cincinnati, U.S.A.
New York, U.S.A.
London, England
London, England
Paris, France
Ceylon
Buda Pesth, Hun.
Corfu
Odessa, Russia
Venezuela, S. A.
Manila, Phi. Islands
Mansoura, Egypt
Mannbhoom, Bengal
Baroda, Bombay
Calcutta, Bengal
Oodeypore, Rajputana
Bombay
Bombay
Multan, Punjab
Bombay
Bombay
Nathdwara, Rajputana
S u p r e m e C h i e f o f T h e T h e o s o p h is ls o f T h e A r y a S a m a j
Pandit Dayanand Saraswati, Swami
(This is a distinct branch ofthe Theosophical Society and of the Arya
Samâj of India, lt is composed of Western and Eastern Theosophists
who accept Swâmiji Dayânand as their leader.)
154 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
1881
When the New Year opened the household were busy
settling in to their new home and enjoying the sea breezes,
which they found delightful after their former rather closed-in
quarters. As they were farther away from the city centre,
visitors did not crowd in upon them so freely, so they had
more quietude for their own work and much appreciated
leisure to read. By this time H.P.B. and Col. Olcott were
financially better placed, therefore they were able to maintain
and enjoy the carriage and horse presented to H.P.B. by
Mr. Keshav, Damodar’s father. They hired a coachman and
arrayed him in green and silver livery.
The account given in the Old Diary Leaves about the
Colonel’s second visit to Ceylon will be found to be different
from that given here. This account is taken direct from the
Diary, with the correct sequence of dates, and in the Diary all
correspondence, plans, “ orders,” agreements and disagree­
ments are daily faithfully recorded. There was no indication
early in the year of intention on the part of Col. Olcott to
go to Ceylon. On the evening of 11 February he and H.P.B.
went for a drive in their new carriage, during the course of
which the Colonel said something (not recorded) to H.P.B.
which made her angry. For a week she would not see or
speak to him. Then, seemingly, peace was restored, for
they drove out together again. On 19 February the Master
Illarion visited them “ en route for Tibet and has been looking
over, in and through the whole situation. . . . He gave
His views on India, Bombay, The Theosophical Society in
Bombay, Ceylon, England and Europe, Christianity and
other subjects, highly interesting.” Owing to this visit, on 25
February the Colonel had a long “ consultation with H. P. B.
about The Society, resulting in an agreement to reconstruct it
on a different basis, putting the Brotherhood idea more pro­
minently forward and keeping the occultism more under
cover—in short, to have a secret society for it . . .” This
IN INDIA 155'
was the germ of the future Esoteric Section of The Theo-
sophical Society. On 9 March a cap was left “ by a visiting
First Sectionist and confiscated by me as a talisman to hang
in my office.”
On 17 March the Colonel received the “ order ” to gO'
to Ceylon in April. H.P.B. raised no objection. He
revised and wrote copy for The Theosophist and helped her
to select matter for the May issue. His departure was delayed
from 8 to 23 April on account of requests from Ceylon,
to do so, owing to holidays there; but all seemed amicable
at the “ Crow’s Nest.” When he returned, 19 December,,
the Colonel heard from H.P.B. “ the blessed news about .’.’s
opinion of my Ceylon work.” There is no hint of any rude
shock awaiting him, or that he had any feelings other than
thankfulness that his arduous work had been recognised and
approved by Those Whom he served.
Reference to The Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnetty
shows that during these years the Masters were stressing the
idea of Brotherhood. “ The Chiefs want a ‘ Brotherhood of
Humanity,’ a real Universal Fraternity started.” (p. 24).
On 17 February a General Council was held, at which
the Rules were revised and simplified, and the Three Objects
approximated very closely to what they now are :
1. To form the nucleus of a Universal Brotherhood of Humanity.
2. To study Aryan literature, religion and science.
3. To vindicate the importance of this enquiry and correct mis­
representation with which it has been clouded.
4. To explore the hidden mysteries of Nature and the latent powers,
in Man, on which the Founders believe that Oriental Philosophy is in a
position to throw light.
By unanimous vote of the Council it was agreed that the
President and Corresponding Secretary were to hold office
for life. All the other offices were to be held for one year or
until their successors were appointed by the President, under
the advice of the General Council. It was made clear that
156 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
all Branches derived their chartered existence from the
Parent Society. It was also agreed that Branches, if so
■desired, could be composed solely of co-religionists.
As the President-Founder had authority under Rules
formulated August 1878 “ to delegate any Fellow of capacity
■and good repute to perform, pro tempore, the duties of any
■office ” if for any reason the incumbent may be absent, or the
office vacant through death or resignation, therefore since
Judge, the Recording Secretary and Maynard, Treasurer,
were so far away, Damodar K. Mavalankar was ap­
pointed Joint Recording Secretary, and H. P. B. acted as
Treasurer.
An unhappy incident occurred at this time because
Damodar adhered to his intention not to take up a house­
holder’s life. As a child he had seen the Master K. H., and
was ardently desirous of becoming His pupil. He had assigned
to his father his share in the ancestral estates to maintain
his wife. His relatives objected to his close indentification
with The Society. His father asserted that Damodar
bad importuned him to give presents to H.P.B. Damodar
firmly refused to leave the Founders, with whom he had
bad some occult experiences, one of which was that of
going to a beautiful bungalow with H. P. B. and Col. Olcott
for certain occult experiments. When the experiments
were over, H. P. B. disappeared for a night.
In February the President gave a lecture in the Framji
Cowasji Hall, on “ Theosophy : Its Friends and Enemies."
A circular was distributed before the lecture warning people
not to believe the Theosophists and to beware of being
denuded of their money. Both police and legal advice was
to the effect that these insults were best ignored. The cir­
cular was issued by Krishnarao (Damodar’s brother), Miss
Bates and E. Wimbridge. It was this attack that caused the
Founders to make up their cash account, many items of
which are entered in the last page of their Diary. H. P. B.,
as Acting Treasurer, presented a statement covering from
IN INDIA 157
1 December 1878 to 30 April 1881. This showed they had
disbursed about Rs. 19,546 (about £1309) while receipts had
been Rs. 6,800. This statement was verified by the auditors..
Several items in the statement are very interesting. For in­
stance : (1) The sum of Rs. 3,900 had been realised from the
initiation fees of Fellows in India, Ceylon and Europe ; (2)
H. P. B. had paid the fees of 40 poor people at Rs. 10 each;
(3) 109 Buddhist priests had been initiated in Ceylon in 1880,
but no fees were charged, as priests do not have any
money of their own. One note on the status of “ Fellows,”is
of special interest : “ Only those few are counted [as such] who-
have formally applied for active ' Fellowship ’ in the Parent.
Society, and been granted diplomas. There are thousands,
in affiliated societies and outside the same who are Theoso-
phists and members of The Theosophical Society, but not
Fellows.” 1
Mr. and Mrs. Sinnett went early in the year on a visit to-
Europe and England, and were given a wonderful reception
in Paris. Mr. Sinnett, who was a Vice-President, was em­
powered by the President to initiate applicants into The
Theosophical Society, and as he had, at his own request,
been put on the General Council, this added dignity was very
useful to him in Paris and London. On the voyage he wrote
the famous Occult World, dealing mainly with the phenomena
of H. P. B. It was published in England and gave great
stimulus to interest in The Society and its work. Mr. Sinnett
met the members in London and gave a private lecture on his
occult experiences. On his return to India he was given a
reception by the Bombay Theosophical Society, of which
Dr. Dudley, an American, was then the President. Mr.
Sinnett was during this year in further and continuous receipt
of letters from the Master K. H. Some were replies to
questions put by himself or Hume concerning human evo­
lution and cosmogony. These replies he worked up into a
1T h e T h eo so p h ist, May 1881, Supplement. This refers to the Arya
Samajists.
158 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
•coherent whole and published the results as Esoteric Bud­
dhism, 1883.'
On 22 April Col. Olcott left for Ceylon, accompanied by
a Mr. Aeneas Bruce, from Scotland, a great traveller. He was
invited to stay at Crow's Nest, joined The Society, and decid­
ed to go to Ceylon with the Colonel. They arrived in Galle
•on 26 April and were warmly welcomed. The Colonel was
garlanded, and greeted by over 300 boys from the first Bud­
dhist school, who were lined up at the quay and escorted
them to the School-house, where the upper rooms were pre­
pared for them and where Bulatgama, Chief Priest of the
principal Galle Temple, headed a large group of priests to
welcome them. Col. Olcott’s first step was to build up a
Council for the work ahead, among the members of which
were Sumangala, J. R. de Silva, Megituwatte, Bulatgama,
and William de Abrew.
The main object of this visit was to raise an Education
Fund and to rouse popular interest in the subject of education
:generally. To help in their campaign Col. Olcott and Mr.
Bruce wrote two pamphlets and put them into circulation—
(1) “ Why I am not a Christian,” (2) “ Why Iam a Buddhist.”
The missionaries retaliated, and engaged in private and open
abuse and in attacks on Buddhism. They copied in their
papers foreign scurrilous articles against the Founders of The
Society. For the first few days the Colonel wondered why
things seemed to move so slowly and why there were so
few visitors. Upon enquiry it transpired that everybody had
hoped to see again H. P. B.’s phenomena.
Col. Olcott followed up his idea of uniting the two
strong Buddhist sects into one driving power. He planned to
get the leaders together and then, with their backing, move from
village to village, arousing the people and collecting funds
1H. P. B. pointed out in the T h e S e c r e t D o c t r in e that Buddhism should
have been spelt Budhism—a derivation of the word Bodh—know­
ledge ; whereas Buddhism is the title given to a great religion, composed
of the followers of the Buddha, a name having the same root meaning.
IN INDIA 159
for future work. He soon saw that one of the chief difficult­
ies was the ignorance of the Sinhalese about Buddhism, and
as he could not persuade anyone to remedy the situation, he
made up his mind to write a Buddhist Catechism. It necessitat­
ed hurried and hard reading, but by the middle of May the MS.
was ready. After long arguments with the High Priest and
other authorities, it was finally considered satisfactory,
and these authorities certified the Catechism to be orthodoxly
suited to the teaching of Buddhist children. It became an
authority, even in law cases. The devoted Mrs. Ilangakoon
supplied the funds for printing it. The Sinhalese and
English versions appeared on 24 July, “ The Catechism’s
Birthday. Six Lux." The demand for copies was great and
continuous ; before the end of August a third edition had
appeared. The Catechism has become a classic, is still
the text-book for Buddhist children throughout the Island,
and has been translated into many languages.
From both Old Diary Leaves and the daily record in
his Diary, one cannot but realise how strenuous and often un­
comfortable were the days Col. Olcott spent in pursuit of the
realisation of his plans. Overcoming all obstacles, he built
up a Fund for Education and a Committee to deal with the
development of Buddhist affairs, and schools were opened.
As time went on enthusiasm waxed and the Colonel found
himself met by admiring crowds and taken in processions.
He considered it showed the paramount influence of The
Theosophical Society in Ceylon when, in Colombo, 7 July,
a Convention of representative priests of the two sects dined
together, and then listened to an address from him. He was
hopeful of a Buddhist delegation going to Siam and Burma
to promote fraternal relations—a dream of Buddhist unity
that he strove for years to bring about. The journal of
The Society in Ceylon, the Sarasavi Sandaresa, was needing
support, so he raised Rs. 250 to see it through the year.
Initiations into The Society became more and more numer­
ous, including, in August, five Kandyan chiefs. But angers
160 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
and jealousies had been aroused, and at times his life and
his Fund were in jeopardy from opponents who hired agents
to molest him.
In the midst of his work Col. Olcott received a copy of the
London Spiritualist, with the editorial marked by the Master
M. and a request from Him, the Master K. H. and H. P. B.
that he should write a reply to it. One little relaxation he
allowed himself when in Colombo—he went to auctions on
Saturdays, and usually bought some item that was of use
to himself, his cart, or to the house in Bombay. Some of
his journeys had been so uncomfortable in those days of few
railways and no motor cars. To reach outlying places it was
necessary to travel by bullock cart, so he devised a two­
wheeled affair which gave sleeping accommodation for four
people, and was well fitted to carry all they needed.
An invitation having come from Tinnevelly (India) to go
there and form a Branch, Col. Olcott arranged a party,
consisting of himself, and three Sinhalese, one of whom
was Wm. de Abrew. At Tuticorin they were given a
great reception and the Colonel lectured. At Tinnevelly,
23 October a right royal welcome awaited them—elephants,
flags, garlands, flowers, gala dresses, priests to bless, not­
ables to salaam, the streets blocked with the excited crowds.
Scurrilous pamphlets were circulated against The Society and
were found to be the work of missionaries. Word was left
at each house that the pamphlet was sent with the compli­
ments of the Secretary of the Tinnevelly Branch !
On 26 October a procession was formed, with music
and banners and crowds, and with much ceremony the cocoa-
nut tree they had brought from Ceylon was planted in the
temple grounds amidst a tempest of applause. The Colonel
addressed the huge crowd on “ The Civilisation that India
needs. ’ It was an appeal for religious tolerance and brotherly
love, and for fraternal reciprocation of the good feeling that
had been brought by these Sinhalese whose religious
Teacher, the Buddha, they regarded as an Avatara of Vishnu.
IN INDIA 161
The party returned to Ceylon, where Mr. De Abrew gave
an account of their tour, which was greatly applauded.
The Colonel thought that this visit had done much good, for
the Hindus had begun to think of him as occupying him­
self solely in propagating Buddhism, and were deeply
impressed to find him so interested in the promotion of
Hinduism.
Col. Olcott’s mission gradually penetrated everywhere
in Ceylon, and though there were difficulties, yet with firm­
ness, tact and goodwill he managed to steer his plans through.
In Colombo he left a strong Committee, and records that a
certain number of those in the Colombo Branch remained
faithful through the years, “ keeping alive the Buddhist
movement with unflagging conscientiousness.” In Galle, 7
December, a Convention of Priests was held at which
there were 97 delegates, and Sumangala and Bulatgama were
the prominent figures. Plans were made for the following
year to carry on the educational work so well begun. By
December the Colonel had completed his plans as far as
they could go for the time, and Trustees and Managers were
appointed for his Educational Fund (that had been gathered
from both rich and poor, mostly the poor). Thus was sown
seed that flourished presently in the strong and enduring
Buddhist Educational Movement.
It is interesting that all three Presidents of The Society
have made Education one of the greatest interests of their
lives : Col. Olcott that Buddhist children might be relieved
from the thraldom of an alien institution either unaware of,
or hostile to, the value of Buddhism ; Dr. Besant that she
might restore to Indian youth its heritage of the splendid
traditions of the Motherland, freed from the rigidities of a
foreign system; Dr. Arundale that the children of the world
might be free to enjoy the fulness of the past and anticipate
a future in which there might be the real and mutual under­
standing of the nations, one with another, and therefore a life
of hitherto undreamt-of beauty and usefulness.
II
162 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Col. Olcott left Ceylon on 13 December and was given
a joyous welcome home. H. P. B. had been working at
The Theosophisl, and had also kept activities going. She
went in July to Simla to stay with Mr. and Mrs. Hume at
Rothnay Castle, and assisted in the formation of the Simla
Anglo-Indian Branch, which was finally called the Simla
Eclectic Theosophical Society: President, A. O. Hume,
C. B. ; Vice-President, A. P. Sinnett; Secretary, Ross Scott.
The following extracts from its Rules are instructive as
indicating the thoughts and attitudes of the times towards
The Society and its aims : (a) To support and countenance
the Theosophical Movement by demonstrating to the native
community that many Europeans respect, sympathise in and
are desirous of promoting it. (¿) To obtain through the
assistance of the Adept-Brothers of the First Section of
the Parent Society a knowledge of the psychological truths
which they have experimentally ascertained, and thus
acquire means of combating the materialism of the age.
Only persons already members of The Society were
admitted, and if anyone wished to do so he could keep
his membership a secret.
From Simla H.P.B. visited Dehra Dun (where she stayed
with Ross Scott), Saharanpur, Meerut, Rohilcund and
Bareilly, where a Branch was formed. She spent a few
days at Allahabad, where the Prayag Branch had been formed,
exclusively for Hindus, to support the Parent Society. This
Branch had, earlier in the year, asked if a medium from
Europe could be induced to visit India. H.P.B. replied she
was willing to find one if they would raise the neces­
sary funds.
In December, at a meeting of The Society, the President
broached the subject of an Indian National Fund, for promot­
ing industrial arts in India and reviving Sanskrit literature.
On the 25th, when the General Council met, it discussed the
policy of shifting Headquarters, and the Founders decided to
spend part of each year at Calcutta, Bombay and Ceylon.
IN INDIA 163
This was not carried out. Next day the President read
to the members the Master M.’s paper on “ Tibetan
Cosmogony.” There does not seem to be any record
of this.
During this year the Founders suffered much from per­
sonal attacks. Legal redress was sought by H.P.B for one
that appeared in the Statesman, Calcutta. She wrote a strong
letter of protest to the Lahore Tribune, and arranged for
publication in The Pioneer of a dignified letter from her
uncle Major-General Fadeef concerning her identity and
antecedents.
As it was known that H.P.B. was writing for Russian
papers, it was assumed that she was supplying information
to those with anti-British tendencies. She pointed out that
all Russian papers in those days were anti-British, but that
she wrote for them mainly stories, under the pen-name of
Radha Bai ; and when she did provide interesting but harm­
less information it was obtained personally from Government
officials, who clearly understood the purpose of her equiries.
In The Theosophist she published Col. Olcott’s important
credentials and these appeared in the newspapers also. The
Colonel found it necessary to repeat this information in the
Ceylon Times. Hume defended them both very effectively in
the Saturday Review, England. Judge took action on their
behalf in New York, where the scurrilous articles originated
and were disseminated throughout the world. H.P.B., in The
Theosophist (Vol. II, 259), pointed out to “ our fellows and
friends in the West as in India,” who felt inclined either to
disbelieve in or accuse the Brothers of the First Section on
account of the administrative mistakes and shortcomings of
The Society, that from the first the Fellows were notified that
the First Section might issue occasional orders to those who
knew them personally, yet had never promised to guide, or
even protect, either the Body or its members.
From March onward into 1882, there appeared in The
Theosophist a series of articles called “ Fragments of Occult
164 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Truth.” The problems expressed in them were raised by an
Australian member, W. H. Terry (Melbourne), a Councillor
of The Society, a keen Spiritualist, and founder and editor of
the Harbinger o f Light. His problems were answered by
H.P.B., and were commented on by the Masters, thus add­
ing considerably to the still scanty store of teachings on
Theosophy.
Besides the Charters applied for and granted in India
during this year other applications were from :
January : E. Cyril Haviland, Sydney, Australia. There
is no further history of this. J. French, Bellary, India ;
J. Leymarie, Paris, France ; this Charter was dispatched
23rd March.
February: M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieut.,
Dutch Guard to the King of the Netherlands, applied for a
Charter for a Branch at The Hague ; it was forwarded 5 July.
No date : Toowoomba, Queensland, Australia ; St.
Thomas, West Indies, which Branch tried to secure official
recognition from the Government.
August : Request for a Charter from Java, under Baron
F. de Fengnagell.
As diplomas of Hon. Fellowship were still being
offered to noted labourers in other yet related fields,
this year Mons. Alphonse Cahagnet, the great French
mesmerist, in accepting such a diploma, wrote that “ Our
Society for the first time in history offers a broad and easy
bridge by which to cross the chasm ”—to close union with all
classes of students of Occult Science.
1882
The early days of the new year were spent in preparing
an Annual Report of which five thousand copies were
printed and distributed. In it the President remarked that
though the “ Anniversary of the Foundation of The Theo-
sophical Society should be properly celebrated on 17
IN INDIA 165
November, the President-Founder’s Inaugural Address having
been delivered on that day of the month in New York,
1875, . . . The festival is kept on the nearest con­
venient date."
During January and February the Master M. appeared
often and was seen by many—Mme. Coulomb included.
Space does not permit mention of more than one or two of
these appearances. Early in January, Ross Scott and his
wife (Miss M. Hume, only daughter of A. O. Hume) were in
Bombay on their honeymoon and spent most of their time at
the Crow’s Nest. One evening, when a group had gathered
at the house, the Master M. appeared and was distinctly seen
by Ross Scott, Bhavani Shankar, Damodar and others. A
Prof. John Smith, M.L.C., C.M.G., of Sydney University,
called on H.P.B., while in Bombay, and was privileged to
witness some phenomena, one of which was a letter to him­
self, in which the Master invited him “ to work for us in
Australia, and we will not prove ungrateful, but will prove to
you our actual existence and thank you.” 1 He did not, how­
ever, do so. One evening the Master came to the Founders
and walked with H.P.B. in the upper garden, then sent them
below while he magnetised the bungalow.
By the same boat as Mrs. Sinnett a Mr. D. M. Bennett
arrived in Bombay from America. Mr. Sinnett was ad­
vised of his coming and was told that Bennett was one
of the Master’s agents, unknown to himself, to carry out
the scheme for the enfranchisement of Western thought
from superstitious creeds.” Sinnett was asked if he would
assist Bennett to understand the “ actual present and
potential future of the state of Asiatic, but more par­
ticularly of Indian thought.” Bennett was received by
Sinnett, who was repelled by his rough, even coarse ap­
pearance. Sinnett was taken to task by the Master M. for
allowing an “ unsavoury aspect ” to be his criterion for
moral excellence or potential power. Bennett was a
1H in ts o n E s o ter ic T h e o s o p h y , 136-8.
166 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Free-thinker, and editor of the Truthseeker, and had suffered
for his attacks upon Christian dogmatism. A Christian
Society in New York sent an emissary to order from
him a work on sexual psychology which, without looking
into it, Bennett supplied in his capacity as bookseller. He
was then prosecuted for circulating indecent books through
the post, and imprisoned. On his discharge a monster audi­
ence greeted him, and a fund was raised to send him round
the world to observe the practical working of Christianity.
Bennett was the Founder’s guest and applied to join The
Society, thus putting the Colonel in a dilemma, for the Anglo-
Indian press was denouncing Bennett as a jail-bird and
corrupter of public morals, whom decent people should avoid.
On the one hand was the declaration of Brotherhood by
which the Colonel was bound, and on the other an instinct of
worldly prudence. On expressing his views to H. P. B., a
Master overshadowed her and reproached him for his faulty
judgment upon his fellow-man. He was reminded that
Bennett was made a scapegoat, and deserved all the encour­
agement they could give him. He was asked to look through
the whole list of members to point out a single one without
faults. Both H. P. B. and the Colonel signed Bennett’s
application form, and he was initiated together with Prof.
Smith and a young Hindu.
Another incident was the appearance of a Rev. Joseph
Cook, whose coming was much heralded by some of the
Anglo-Indian Press. Following the publication of the results
of Dr. Slade’s seances at Leipsic (1878), resulting in the
enunciation of Zollner’s theory of the “ fourth dimension,”
Cook, a blatant preacher and lecturer of Boston,” 1gave a
course of lectures on these subjects and converted many
to Spiritualism. He was taken to task by his “ clerical
brethren. ’ He thereupon gave a lecture for a Church and
poured out vituperation and abuse upon Spiritualists—to their
great indignation. Upon arrival in Bombay he denounced
1N in eteen th C e n t u r y M ir a c le s , p. 41.
IN INDIA 167
Spiritualism in India, and the Theosophists as adventurers.
In the midst of this excitement The Society held its Sixth
Anniversary Meeting, 12 January, in the Framji Cowasji
Hall, which had been lavishly decorated with flowers, palms
and flags. It was a great success, for a huge audience pack­
ed the Hall to bear witness to their friendly sympathy with
the leaders of The Theosophical Society, whose disinterested
services to India they had begun to appreciate. Mr. Sinnett
came specially from Allahabad to speak. Each speaker was
vehemently applauded, especially as unpleasant hand-bills
had been distributed, vilifying them all. Damodar read the
Treasurers Report, completely answering all the charges that
H. P. B. and the Colonel were running The Society for their
own profit.
On 17 January Mr. Cook again derided Theosophy and
Bennett to a crowded audience, also on the 19th, when
H. P. B., Col. Olcott, Capt. Banon and Mr. Bennett were pre­
sent. Cook was unwise enough to abuse.Hinduism and roused
opposition. Next day The Theosophical Society arranged a
meeting at the Framji Cowasji Institute to answer his charges.
A tremendous crowd cheered the speakers. Bennett answered
for himself; Col. Olcott read a challenge to Mr. Cook
by the Swami Dayanand (on behalf of the Vedic Religion),
Bennett and himself. He also read H. P. B.’s letter to
Mr. Cook. Capt. A. Banon presided and made two good
speeches. Mr. Cook evaded the challenge to meet them
and make good his charges by saying he had to go on
to Poona. They followed him ; Capt. Banon sending him
a challenge that unless he met them in Poona, he would
post him as a liar and coward. He refused. As publicity
was given to these events in India, Europe and America,
Damodar wrote to the Religio-Philosophic Journal (U.S.A.),
always somewhat critical of H. P. B., stating the facts. Light
(England) added, to its criticism of Cook that “ he gave
The Society the largest gratuitous advertisement in his
power.”
168 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
While in Poona the Founders organised the Poona
Theosophical Society, with N. D. Khandalavala, in whose
house they were guests, as President. Colonel Olcott
lectured at Hirabagh, but the meeting had to be held in the
open air to accommodate the crowd. Such had been the
turmoil that when the Town Hall, Bombay, was applied for
as the Colonel was to lecture 14 February, on “ The Spirit of
the Zoroastrian Religion,”use of it was granted by the Govern­
ment on condition that the lecture should not be polemical.
The Parsis caused his address to be printed in English and
Gujerati, and distributed 20,000 copies. A Parsi Archaeological
Society was formed and in the following November discussed
with the Colonel their plans to hunt for old MSS. in Armenia.
Other visitors in January were the Thakur Saheb of Wadh-
wan and Harisinghji of Bhavnagar. With the latter the
Colonel formed a warm life-long friendship, and Bhavnagar
State still gives special hospitality to the leaders of The
Theosophical Society.
The President left for a lecturing tour in the North,
accompanied by Bhavani Shankar, with Jeypore as their
first stopping place. This was his first experience of having
a student audience, and the lecture was given in the spacious
quadrangle of the Maharaja’s College. When wandering in
the bazaar in Delhi the Colonel saw in an engraver’s shop
imprints of Urdu seals and, struck with the resemblance one
bore to the cryptographic signature of the Master M., he
ordered a common brass seal to be engraved with it to show
H. P. B. on his return. This seal, so innocently acquired,
was the cause of much trouble years afterwards.
At Meerut a Branch was formed, and at Bareilly the
Colonel lectured on “ Theosophy : its Objects and Aims."
Cawnpore came next, with a lecture on the same subject.
This title was purposely chosen because of the considerable
effort to belittle The Society and its leaders. At Allahabad
the Colonel stayed, as usual, with the Sinnetts. He spoke
to the Prayag Branch, on “ The Correct Conception of
IN INDIA 169
Theosophy and The Theosophical Society.” While there he
was warned by the Master of difficulties ahead.
The Colonel went on alone to Berhampore, where he
was met with much pomp, and where there were several fine
members whose zeal and conviction did so much to build
up The Society from those days onwards—N. K. Bannerji
(who with his son and daughter were pupils of a Master),
D. Ganguly and S. Mukerji. At Culcutta he stayed first with
Col. and Mrs. Gordon, and then with the courtly Maharaja
Sir Johendro Mohun Tagore at his palatial guest-house.
On 26 March, Swami Dayanad lectured in Bombay,
launching an attack, denouncing the Founders personally and
The Society collectively. In addition, he caused his state­
ments to be printed and circulated, and they were widely
repeated in the Press.1
The Colonel’s lecture 5 April in Calcutta was on
“ Theosophy, the Scientific Basis of Religion,” with Babu
Peary Chand Mitra in the Chair; his diploma dated back
to 1877. There was a tremendous audience, which cheered
heartily. This lecture was published in the Indian Mirror.
The Colonel’s own notes of it have been preserved. He first
traced the history of The Society. He then described Theo­
sophy as being the Science taught by the ancient Aryan and
Hindu Sages, who taught the true Psychology. This Psycho­
logy included the study of the laws of Divine Wisdom and
the training of man to discover this Wisdom for himself.
The search after religious truth, he declared, is the scientific
basis of Religion.
H. P. B. arrived 6 March and they organised the
Bengal Theosophical Society, with Peary Chand as President
and Norendranath Sen as Secretary. Presently, Mohini M.
Chatterji was added as one of the Assistant Secretaries.
Afterwards Norendranath became President and led the
Lodge for many years. He was editor of the well known
journal, the Indian Mirror, and through it kept the public fully
1For full account see p. 115, et seq.
170 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
informed of important events in the Theosophical Move­
ment. The Bengal Theosophical Society is still most active
and has its own building in College Square, Calcutta, where
the present revered and learned Vice-President of The
Society, Hirendranath Datta, draws large audiences to listen to-
his deeply thoughtful lectures, especially those on Indian
philosophy. In Calcutta a Ladies Branch was formed, and
for Ladies Branches the Colonel drew up somewhat elaborate
rules, which do not seem to have been used at all.
As they were “ ordered ” to remain in Calcutta, H. P. B.
and the Colonel stayed there until the 19th, receiving streams
of visitors, dealing with much correspondence, and initiating
new members. There were frequent letters from the Masters,
dropped sometimes in the presence of a whole group of
people. To members and friends the Colonel spoke on
Theosophy and The Theosophical Society. Some seemed
dissatisfied with the idea of secrecy, particularly Peary
Chand.
The Founders went by steamer to Madras, arriving
23 April, and were met by leading Indians. T. Subba Row,
had invited them to come, and was initiated privately two'
days later. They were the guests of Sir T. Madhava Row.
They were popular “ news ” in the Press ; visitors were
many and initiations frequent. Before they left there were
ninety-one members, making the Madras Branch the largest:
in India. The Colonel lectured twice to packed audiences,
with H. P. B. on the platform, “ the cynosure of all eyes.”
Despite the fact that it was the hottest month of the year
the devoted Founders went with a party, 7 May, to
Nellore. They travelled in boats on the Buckingham Canal ;
H. P. B. and the Colonel in the first boat, a quiet time to­
gether which they much appreciated, for it so rarely happened.
The rest of the party were in a second boat—P. Iyalu Naidu,
G. Soobiah Chetty and others. Next day they landed at:
Muttukar and were taken the remaining fifteen miles in a
carriage drawn by men, and received an ovation at Nellore..
IN INDIA 171
A lecture on “ Misconceptions about Theosophy,” talks,
initiations and the formation of the Nellore Theosophical
Society filled up their time. A group of Pandits came to see
H. P. B. to discuss metaphysics with her, the outcome of
which was the founding of a Sanskrit School and College,,
which is still in active existence and is in the same grounds
as the Lodge. Both were supported faithfully by the late
B. Ranga Reddi. A terribly hot and tedious journey brought
them back to Madras.
On the afternoon of 31 May, Judge Muttuswamy’s two-
sons 1 took the Founders to see a fine property on the Adyar
river which was to be had cheaply. They were driven to-
Adyar and at “ our first view of the Adyar Headquarters-
. . . knew that our future home was found.”
The Founders had for some time been considering the
question of a permanent Headquarters. They had finally
decided to remain in India, and this property seemed emi­
nently suitable. It was called Huddlestone’s Gardens,
consisted of 27 acres, and was on sale for the modest sum of
£600—then about Rs. 9,000, The fact that T. Subba Row
lived in Madras helped them to decide to buy it. P. Iyalu
Naidu advanced Rs. 3,500 of the purchase money, and
bought the property in his own name ; and Judge Muttuswamy
secured a loan of the remainder on easy terms. The President:
began at once to plan for a Library, got out a subscription
list and raised Rs. 470.
The Founders returned third class to Bombay, where
most of their time was taken up in preparing an answer to
Swami Dayanand’s attack.
H. P. B. and the Colonel accepted an invitation to go to-
Baroda, where Judge Gadgil and other State officials met
and took them to a new bungalow near the palace.
When the Rewah Branch was formed the Dewan became
President. The Colonel gave two lectures, in the beautiful
1G. Soobiah Chetty and C. Sambiah Chetty. Soobiah Chetty is still
living at Adyar, and at times relates his vivid memories of the Founders.
172 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Marriage Hall, one on “ Theosophy,” the other on “ Science
and Hinduism ” before the Gaekwar, the nobles of his court
and British officials, as well as townspeople. Some phenomena
which H. P. B. did astounded witnesses. All these records
of the phenomena which H. P. B. produced should, one day,
be collected and tabulated. They, would, in their very mass,
make a formidable answer to those who consider her a
charlatan.
In July a Rev. A. Theophilus read before a Diocesan
Clerical Conference in Madras a paper on “ The Theosophic-
al Society, its objects and Creed, its attitude towards
Christianity and its work in India.” Not complimentary of
course, and a presage of the coming storm.
On 15 July the Colonel left again for Ceylon, where he
found things at a standstill. But with great patience he
began again to stir the priests and laymen into action. He
sat up all one night to prepare a new English edition of the
Catechism, and introduced some fresh material agreed upon
by the authorities. He then went on tour, to meet with
crowds and processions, though with not much response
to his Fund ; but generous Mrs. Ilangakoon gave him
Rs. 500 for it. He travelled at times all night, sitting up in
a coach, to lecture at some place—on one occasion only to
find that no arrangements had been made, so he philosophic­
ally spent the day reading and writing, and collecting more
funds ! He relates that he heard the Roman Catholics were
about to convert a well near the ancient Buddhist temple at
Kelane, near Colombo, into a healing shrine. He felt con­
cerned, for he did not wish to see a rush of ignorant Bud­
dhists into Roman Catholicism. He had begged the High
Priest to cure people in the name of the Buddha, but he
knew nothing of the subject and was unwilling to try. Then,
at Galle, a semi-paralysed man came to the Colonel bringing
a tiny donation to his Fund, all he could spare. It dawned
upon Col. Olcott that here was an opportunity. He had
studied Mesmerism and Magnetic Healing. He tried some
IN INDIA 173
passes, and in a few days had the man quite well. Upon
hearing of this cure patients poured in upon him, and he
found he had an almost miraculous power to heal, especially
any form of paralysis. The technique of this healing-power
he improved as time went on, and learned also how to prac­
tise it without too much exhaustion. He found that sea­
bathing restored his vital forces almost immediately. After a
strenuous tour he returned to Bombay.
H. P. B. had gone incognito to Darjiling in July. When
she reached the hills she turned off from the railway. She
had evidently sought and obtained permission from the
Government to go into Sikkim, but they would not
answer for her safety. After she had started she received a
note from the Deputy Commissioner advising her not to go
to 1 ibet. However, she knew she was safe, and went some
thirty miles beyond Sikkim territory, remaining, to her intense
happiness, two days with the Masters M. and K. H. who
were there physically. The Master K. H. wrote (see The
Mahatma Letters, p. 314) that it was two years since she had
been with them in their “ natural bodies.” He also said
how profoundly touched He was by her ecstatic rapture at
meeting the Master M again.
In November Mr. Sinnett was advised that the proprie­
tors of the Pioneer no longer needed his services as Editor,
on account of his connection with the Theosophists, and his
pro-Indian leanings since he had come into contact with
them. The Master K. H. was anxious that Sinnett should
not leave India, and set on foot a plan to start another paper
with him as editor, to be called The Phoenix. Partly owing
to Hume, and partly to the apathy of Indians the project fell
through. The Occult World had by this time gone into a
second edition, and a wealthy American ordered the printing
at New York of a 10 cent edition so that it might be “ scat­
tered broadcast throughout America.”
H. P. B. returned from Allahabad on 25 November,
bringing with her Norendro Nath Sen, Mohini M. Chatterji,
174 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Ananda P. Ghosal, Nobin K. Bannerji and S. Ramaswamier
—all chelas—as delegates to the Convention. Judge Gadgil
came from Baroda and Ezekiel from Poona. With all these
present there were great discussions, and frequent appear­
ances of the Master M., who was seen by many, as was the
Elder Brother known as Atriya. Also certain orders were
received from the Masters M. and K. H. by Nobin and
Mohini. On 6 December there was a large gathering of
F. T. S. at which S. Ramaswamier told of his meeting with
the Master M., and the Colonel spoke of his work in Ceylon
and showed them early portraits of the Masters M. and K. H.
On 7 December, at the Framji Cowasji Hall, the Seventh
Anniversary of The Theosophical Society was celebrated.
It was “ a grand success.” Fifteen delegates from all parts
of India were present, Mme. Coulomb had made a fine new
crimson banner of the Parent Society, and thirty-nine shields
were inscribed with the names of Branches. There was a
crowded audience, for apparently the public was admitted.
Mr. Sinnett was in the Chair.
Next day the Founders packed up ready for departure.
Miss Mary Flynn, daughter of a Translator to the Govern­
ment, was initiated before they left. A farewell party was
given them by the Bombay Theosophical Society on 16
December and the next day they went by rail to Madras.
They were met on arrival on the 19th by about fifty Fellows
and escorted to Adyar. It seemed to them like a “ fairy
place.” Here the Master M. came “ to see H. P. B.
every day.”
It might seem strange that during these years from 1879
to 1882 no mention has been made of the remainder of “ the
Society ” in New York. They had been requested to wait
for the rituals that were being prepared, and Mr. Judge was
finally advised that the idea was abandoned. He was away
a good deal on business in Venezuela. He was poor and
struggling, but anxious to help. He corresponded with
Damodar and expressed his great desire to come to India.
IN INDIA 175
The Society in the U. S. A., he wrote, was dormant. Gen.
Doubleday sometimes visited members. In 1882 Rochester
•(where 14 members applied for a Charter), Los Angeles and
other places had begun to make enquiries about forming
Branches. Judge asked for a dispensation to organise
Branches when he saw fit. He wished applications for
Charters to be sent and returned through him (as a
Recording Secretary). Dr. J. D. Buck wrote from Cincinnati
that he was a seeker after Theosophy. He said thousands
in America were grateful to Col. Olcott and H. P. B. for
upholding Universal Brotherhood ; and many wished to
learn more of India’s religions and people.
The British Theosophical Society was not going very well.
Some members were still very Spiritualistic and did not
like H. P. B.’s criticisms in The Theosophist on difficulties in
the Spiritualistic ranks. Massey had been disturbed by
various events. Hurrychand Chintamon was sowing seeds
of disaffection in revenge for his dismissal ■
from Bombay.
Certain members were demanding proofs of the existence of
the Brothers, and others were definitely against “ secrecy.”
But there were some who were anxious to understand Theo­
sophy and promote the interests of The Society ; such as
the “ Arundale ladies” (Miss Francesca Arundale and her
mother joined 1881), Dr. Anna Kingsford, Dr. E. Maitland,
Mme Isabel de Steiger and others.
Early in the year Tookaram Tattya published the
first of a series of classics, Patanjali’s Yoga Sutras, with
an Introduction by Col. Olcott. The Theosophist provided
the main source of instruction in Theosophy, publishing
excellent articles, enriched by H. P. B.’s footnotes about the
Elder Brethren, Initiations, Chelas (disciples), the Vedanta,
the Kabala, Sanskrit terms, etc., besides illuminating editori­
als. One interesting note in the July Theosophist was a
quotation, taken from another journal, from the pen of
Mrs. Annie Besant, who wrote she “ trusts Hindu Free­
thinkers will not be led away by Col. Olcott’s appeal, for
176 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
while secularists would have no right to refuse to enroll
Theosophists . . . consistent members of our Society cannot
join a Society which professes belief in ‘ apparitions of the
dead V*
Looking back over the year the President found that the
seeds sown were beginning to germinate. Branches were
springing up everywhere ; Societies to promote national culture
were being organised, both as Branches and independently.
There was an awakening of Indian youth to the value of their
ancient literature. The Society was in possession of per­
manent Headquarters, friends and workers were gathering
round. Above all The Society had completed the seven
years of its probation. Even so, the Masters said that the
success of the two leaders, though phenomenal in certain
directions, had “ not quite equalled the hopes of their
original backers.” But they had struggled against great odds
and won through. “ The Theosophical Society is the hope
of mankind . . . and we all of us are but the diggers of its
foundations.”
1883
The first few weeks of the New Year were spent by
the Founders in settling into their new home, with the assist­
ance of M. and Mme. Coulomb. One of their first acts was,
with the help of donations from generous members, to repay
Mr. Iyalu Naidu the purchase money of the estate. A public
reception was given them in Pachaiappa’s Hall, at which the
Colonel broached the idea of organizing a Hindu Sunday
School Union for the tuition of children, for which there
should be a Hindu Catechism. The proposal was carried
unanimously.
At Adyar there were soon many visitors, among them
their old friend the Raja of Wadhwan, with his suite of
fifteen. Despite a house full of guests the Colonel and
1L e tte r s o f H . P . B la o a t s k y to A . P. S in n e tt, p. 33.
IN INDIA 177
Damodar gave the usual annual revision to the Rules and
made up the list for the General Council. For seven years
all the burden of organisation, inspiration and support had
fallen upon the broad shoulders of the Founders. Now came
other voluntary workers whose volume of service, steadily
mounting, helped and helps so greatly to make a strong con­
solidated movement. S. Ramaswamier undertook to travel in
the South to form Branches and assist those already formed.
A. P. Ghosal did the same in the North. The printing of
The Theosophist was transferred to Madras, and as it was
necessary to have a police licence, this was taken out in
H. P. B.’s name.
On the evening of 11 February “ a special meeting of
the Parent Society was held at Headquarters to welcome the
members of the Madras Branch.” It was the first of number­
less great occasions. Each President has beautified the
Hall, enlarged by Col. Olcott, which today is more attractive
than ever. A new red cloth was laid on the floor, the Branch
shields were hung up, flowers decorated the scene. The
President spoke on Mesmerism and demonstrated a few
■experiments. During this month the Colonel and the
Coulombs made ready a small “ occult room.” As they
worked there fell, in Mme. Coulomb’s presence, a note from
the Master K. H. containing Rs. 150, and the plan of a sanc­
tuary for a statue of the Buddha with “ orders ” to have it
constructed. Alas ! what sorrows that room was to cause
H. P. B. ! \
The editing of The Theosophist and answering her numer­
ous correspondents occupied H. P. B. She described her­
self as “ editor, manager, clerk and even peon [messenger
boy] ” with Damodar to help her, and worked long hours
every day. As she did not hesitate to write about the
obligations and duties of chelas, and as people in both
West and East urged upon her their desire to become
disciples, an unsigned article appeared in The Theosophist1
1July 1883, Supplement.
12
178 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
answering them. It was pointed out how the Elder
Brethren, having launched The Society, respected this
desire. “ Since the advent of The Theosophical Society,
one of whose arduous tasks it was to reawaken in the Aryan
mind the dormant memory of this (occult) science . . .
the rules of Chela selection have been slightly relaxed in one
respect, (for) many pressed to be taken as candidates. And
as it would be an interference with Karma to deny them the
chance of at least beginning . . . they were given it.”
There were complaints from both Indians and Europeans
that “ unless a few Theosophists were given the chance The
Society could not endure. . . . At last came word from
the higher authorities that a few of the most urgent candidates
should be taken at their word.” Some became lay chelas,
j'.e., men of the world who affirmed their desire “ to become
wise in spiritual things.” This conferred no privileges, but
meant “ working for merit under the observation cf a Master”
—one of Whom defined chelaship as a “ psychic resolvent,
which eats away the dross and leaves only the pure gold
behind.”
It fell to H. P. B. to take charge of both chelas and lay
chelas, and this was the reason why members came to
live near her under her observation and direction. Other
articles on Gurus and Chelas appeared in The Theosophist,
one with 201 signatures of Indians, who expressed in this
manner their complete agreement with her teaching concern­
ing chelaship. H. P. B. announced in the December
Theosophist, that “ the Mahatma K. H. is most likely to pass
through Madras in a week or so, on His way to Siam.”
Damodar put the word “ chela” after his name when he
wrote articles.
“ Replies to an English F. T. S.” were articles of con­
siderable importance. The questions had been drawn up by
F. W. H. Myers on Esoteric Buddhism, and were answered
very fully by H. P. B. and later by T. Subba Row. They
contained a first “ attempt to acquaint the public at large with
IN INDIA 179
a philosophy which had been for long centuries hidden in
the fastnesses of the Himalayan mountains and in Southern
Ashramas. . . ” In one footnote 1H.P.B. uttered the warning
that is now realised to have been right : “ Some of the dis­
coveries of certain sciences—such as chemistry and physical
science—ought to have been kept ‘ occult . . . withheld from
knowledge of the ignorant and unprincipled portion of man­
kind. This was the opinion of some great men of science.
This may explain perhaps why the occultists will not give out
their even more perilous secrets promiscuously.” She was
taken to task, from England and Scotland, for inserting an
advertisement of Freethinking and Anti-Christian Literature.
To this objection H. P. B. replied : “ If British Theosophists
would send me anti-Buddhist tracts—I would publish them
immediately. . . . Unless I am directly ordered by my Guru
. . . to drop the advertisement objected to, I cannot go
against my principles of fair play . . .”
Mr. and Mrs. Sinnett, on their way to England, spent a
few days at Adyar where Mr. Sinnett continued writing Esoteric
Buddhism. He made notes of questions for the Master and
one morning asked his wife to take them to H. P. B. for
transmission. She did so, and was told by H. P. B. to put
them into an ornamental cupboard, some three feet square,
which hung on the wall between her two rooms. In about
ten minutes H. P. B. asked Mrs. Sinnett, with whom she sat
chatting all the time, to look again in the cupboard, where she
found the Master’s reply lying with Sinnett’s paper of notes.
This cupboard held some relics of H. P. B.’s stay with the
Masters in Tibet, and the household called it “ The Shrine.”*
It too, became a source of much trouble.
The President had left for a tour in the north and was
soon busy in Calcutta lecturing and initiating candidates. He
was also inundated with patients, whom he healed. He
opened the first Theosophical Sunday School, 10 March
1T h e T h e o s o p h is t, July, p. 260.
3 T h e E a r ly D a y s o f T h e o s o p h y in E u ro p e, pp. 39-40.
180 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
with seventeen boys, and with Mohini M. Chatterji to
teach them. At Calcutta he was shown an exceptional
honour by the Brahman, Pandit Taranath Tarka Vachaspati,
the compiler of a famous Sanskrit Dictionary, who cooked
food and gave it to the Colonel, and then initiated him into
his own gotra (clan) and gave him his own mantra (private
invocation).
From Calcutta Col. Olcott went to Krishnagar, Dacca
and Darjiling—where he caught a glimpse of the Elder
Brother Djual Khool—lecturing mainly on Theosophy and
The Theosophical Society. He undertook fatiguing journeys,
to visit Jessore and Narail, and returned to Calcutta, 2 April,
needing rest, to be immediately waylaid by two paralytics,
whom he cured. He went on the 4th to Berhampore where
the Jains again gave him a splendid reception. Here he
visited one of the first schools to be run by Theosophists,
which included both Hindus and Muslims. The cases who
came crowding for treatment included those afflicted with
sciatica, lumbago, hysteria, hemiphlegia, rheumatism, deaf­
ness, dumbness, blindness, etc. The Indian rulers and
authorities in the places he visited showed him every courtesy
and honour. After visiting Darbhanga, Raniganj, Bankura,
Searsole, Burdhwan and Chinsurah he returned to Calcutta,
soon to start out again on a visit to Midnapore, travelling by
canal boat. Of this journey he wrote : “Steaming on the
canal as a 1st class passenger is very nice. I slept on the
floor as the husband and wife (other passengers) occupied
the only two places in the little cabin.” He formed a Branch
at Midnapore and returned to Calcutta to celebrate, 21 May,
the First Anniversary of the Bengal Theosophical Society.
At Madras 25 May, he was met by “ the Chetty boys " and
Mme. Coulomb. So home and—“ Heavens ! but it is a fine
thing to rest now and then ! "
On 2 June, J. A. Venkataramayya, F. T. S., Editor of the
Madras Native Opinion, lectured on “ Theosophy : its bearing
on the Future of India.” This was one of the first lectures
IN INDIA 181
by Indians who began to realise the stirring effect of The
Society upon India, and the changed outlook that was quite
perceptibly taking place in the Indian mind.
For about a month the President was in Adyar, and his
Diary records a number of phenomena, some of them in the
presence of M. and Mme. Coulomb, Damodar and H. P. B.,
which so far have not been made public. They were done,
as he relates in Old Diary Leaves, chiefly for his own benefit.
He does mention one in reference to his indecision as to
whether he should go to Allahabad or Ceylon first. He put
the letter containing the request to go to Allahabad in “ the
Shrine," locked the door, then “ instantly reopened it and got
the written orders of Maha Sahib through Hilarion, in
French.” 1 A few days later an urgent telegram from Colombo
came and he was “ ordered to accept ” the invitation. During
this time at home Col. Olcott had “ metaphysical discus­
sions ” with H. P. B.—by which he usually meant that his
own training in occultism was still proceeding.
When he arrived in Ceylon, 30 June, he found the
Buddhists in distress on account of attacks made on them by
the Roman Catholics. He sought on behalf of the Buddhists
an interview with the Governor of Ceylon and sat up all one
night to get through the Headquarters’ Press the Buddhist
Petition for Redress. He saw the Governor, Government
and Police officials, leading Buddhist priests and laymen and
Counsel. Appeals were prepared for the Home Government
and House of Commons, through the Secretary of State
(Lord Derby). The Buddhists wanted him to go to London
and plead their case. His days were crowded with inter­
views, work for The Theosophical Society, initiations and
business affairs, and his nights in preparing memoranda for
Counsel to use in London.
Leaving all this work in train towards a settlement, Col.
Olcott went on a tour in S. India, beginning at Tinnevelly,
where he was given a remarkable reception. At his lecture
1D ia r y , 6 June, 1883.
182 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
He started a subscription for a library for the Aryan Fore­
fathers Society. Here, as everywhere, the sick came to him
in numbers and many were healed. He then set out by
bullock cart for Travancore, travelling all night. He met
the royal family and discussed Yoga with them, and in their
presence restored speech to an old woman. He addressed
a large audience, then went back by bullock cart to
Nagercoil to speak, and travelled all night, a hundred miles
on a bad road, to Tinnevelly. To Sattur by train, then by
bullock cart all night to Srivilliputtur to lecture. Madura
came next, and a lecture to a big audience, then Negapatam,
where an enormous crowd met him with bands, etc., and in
the temple he spoke to about 6,000. At Trichinopoly again
a great audience, and a mass meeting in the temple court.
At Tanjore he spoke in the temple court to a vast and cheer­
ing audience. Sometimes he slept at railway stations, ready
to go off early or late to the next place. At Kumbakonam
a vast assemblage greeted him at the temple lecture. He
gave an address also to schoolboys and undergraduates, and
started a subscription for a library for them. At Mayavaram
a torch-light procession was arranged to take him to the
temple where 9,000 listened to his address. Here Damodar
came to meet him, by request, bringing with him a new
volunteer to act as his private secretary, sent “ by (or
through) H. P. B.”—Mr. T. Vijiarghava Charlu, who acted for
many years as manager of The Thcosophist. At Cuddalore the
priests took Col. Olcott in procession round the temple inside
the enclosure, “ a ceremony which hitherto only a Hindu has
been allowed to perform. . . . The Arati ceremony was
then performed by the High Priest and the blazing camphor
offered to the Colonel and a flower garland placed about his
neck. . . . The whole temple was crowded to suffoca­
tion. . . . ” A visit to Chingleput closed the tour. Prince
and beggar had done him honour and the masses acclaimed
him for his services. “ They took me as the friend of their
Mother-India . .
IN INDIA 183
Col. Olcott went on to Ootacamund to join H. P. B. where
she was the guest of Major-General and Mrs. Morgan,
who were initiated 6 September. H. P. B. had already
drawn around her a large group of Europeans, irresistibly
attracted by her powers, knowledge, wit and originality.
Letters were again appearing in the papers, hinting that
The Theosophical Society had a secret political object,
so the President protested to the Government, also
against “ interference of Mofussil [country] officials with
natives joining The Society.” He sent copies of his former
correspondence with the Government of India to the Madras
Government and asked for protection. At this moment the
Bombay Gazette contained a scandalous attack on them,
copied from a New York paper. But to the Founders’ con­
siderable satisfaction they received an Order of Council,
assuring the President that the Madras Government would
“ strictly follow the lines that have been laid down by the
Government of India.” Regarding his complaint, they obser­
ved that it was of a general nature, and he was further assured
that His Excellency the Governor would “ highly disapprove
any interference with the religious or philosophical ideas of
any section of the population.” It was these political diffi­
culties which made Col. Olcott pronounce that “ the tena­
cious observance by the Founders of our Society of the
principle of absolute neutrality in all questions that lie outside
the limits of its declared ‘ objects ’ ought to have obviated the
necessity to say that there is a natural and perpetual divorce
between Theosophy and Politics.” But the necessity for that
divorce has long since passed.
From Ootacamund H. P. B. had made a trip to investi­
gate the primitive Toda people living in the Nilgiri Hills,
and sent a series of articles about them to the Russian
papers, entitled “ Mysterious Tribes : Three Months in the
Blue Mountains.” These, translated, appeared in The Theo-
sophist, 1909, and were published as The People o f the Blue
Mountains, 1930.
184 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
The Founders left Ooty (Ootacamund), 16 September,
and stopped at Coimbatore, where many came to be healed.
Twenty-three people were initiated and formed a Branch.
Then on to Pondicherry, where the Colonel lectured as best
he could in French and, despite some difficulty, formed a
Branch. After his lecture, he found H. P. B. in the rest-house
surrounded by a group of visitors discussing all manner of
subjects. And among this group sat a Great One Whom they
both knew, Who signed to them to take no notice, and Who
presently quietly departed.
On the 27th, two days after their return to Adyar,
the President started on another tour in the North. He
visited Bellary, Adoni, Hyderabad, Secunderabad and Shola-
pore, where he was joined by W. T. Brown (from Glas­
gow) who had volunteered his services, though the Pre­
sident had warned him of the difficulties. In Bombay
once more, his lecture was “ The Progress of Theosophy,”
given to a crowded audience. Brown spoke too and was
kindly received. The Colonel received, through Damo-
dar, 19 October, an “ Order from the Chohans not to heal
any more until further orders.” He was relieved, for the
demand upon him was so great that his health had begun to
suffer. The President, with Damodar, Brown and the sec­
retary, Doraswamy, and several others went North, 21
October, visiting a number of towns, at some of which the
members frankly confessed disappointment that the President
was no longer healing the sick ; instead he took up again his
favourite subject of Mesmerism and demonstrated experi­
ments. Brown was entrusted with the initiation ceremonies,
thus relieving the President of some of the strain. At Lahore
the party was taken to a camp of tents on the Maidan (open
space), where they were besieged with visitors, who came
to hear the President lecture on Aryan Philosophy. On
the night of 19 November, as he lay asleep, he was
aroused by a touch and, starting awake, grasped the visitor,
only to hear a voice of great sweetness ask : “ Do you not
IN INDIA 185
know me ? ” He saluted reverently and wished to jump out
of bed to bow in respect, but the Master restrained him, left
a note and laid a hand on his forehead in blessing. He
then went into Brown’s tent. This note contained counsel
to the Colonel and the prophecy of the deaths of two
people then active opponents of The Society—Swami
Dayanand and Keshub Chandra Sen. The next evening
he lectured on “ Theosophy,” and again that night the
Master K. H. came, accompanied by the Elder Brother who
is now the Master Djual Khool, and showed Themselves to
him, Damodar and Brown. Despite these manifold signs of
interest in him, Brown later left The Society, becoming a
Roman Catholic and a teacher in one of their schools. He
abused H. P. B. in lectures in the U. S. A. in 1888.
The party went next to Jammu. Leaving the train at
Wazirabad, they pushed on at 3 a.m by horse-post to Sialkote..
Carriages were left this side of the river Tavi and elephants
conveyed them across. Here the Maharaja hospitably enter­
tained them. That night, 24 November, Damodar disappear­
ed. A telegram to H. P. B. brought the answer that the
Master had promised he should return, which he did on the
27th, a stronger and finer man, and brought the Colonel a
message from the Master Hilarion.
The Colonel had many talks with the Maharaja, who-
always remained friendly to The Society and its work. They
returned to Lahore, then visited Kapurthala, and Jeypore,
where Atmaran Swami assured the Colonel he knew the
Chohans, and that he had announced eight years previously
that the Colonel and H. P. B. were in America and would
come to India. At Baroda the Gaekwar invited Col. Olcott
to visit him and to explain his work in India. The party
returned to Madras, 15 December, and at Headquarters
found many visitors : Dr. Franz Hartmann, delegate from
The Theosophical Society of New York and with credentials
from the Rochester and St. Lious Branches, Countess Wacht-
meister, General and Mrs. Morgan and Miss Flynn.
186 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Other delegates began to arrive, among them William de
Abrew and a Ceylon contingent, and preparations were
made for the Anniversary. The Madras University refused
them the use of the Senate House, so the Master M. advised
the erection of a Pandal (100 X 50 ft.) on the grounds. By
25 December sixty-two delegates had arrived from all parts
of India. The 27th was a day of great success. The 8th
Convention “ At the Parent Society’s Headquarters” at
Adyar, precursor of so many more, opened with the Presi­
dent’s Address, and bore witness to the constant guidance
of the Masters. In the afternoon a Public Reception was
held, with speeches, music, and illuminations. There were
many speakers—Hartmann, Brown, Norenda Nath, Pandit
Prân Nath (Lucknow), General Morgan, W. de Abrew and
Soundra Poulie (Pondicherry). Judge Srinivasa had most
generously paid for most of the expenses, and on the 28th
the President mentioned this. H.P.B. sent Damodar to “ the
•Shrine ” where he found Rs. 500 from the Master K. H. and
Rs. 100 from the Master M.
At Pachaiappa’s Hall, where there were flags and illum­
inations, a tremendous crowd listened to the Presidential
Address and speeches from delegates. “ So closed a year
that had been the most active and fortunate of all for our
Society.”
In reviewing the activities of the year, it was obvious that
India had led the way in propaganda, resulting in the forma­
tion of 43 new Branches. In England The Theosophical
Society of Great Britain, to which title it had changed its
name after dissociation of The Society from the Àrya Samâj,
held its Annual General Meeting, 7 January. The mem­
bers were still being supplied with lectures forwarded from
India for their instruction. Certain information was im­
parted about which no risks were to be run. A system of
truth was to be unfolded which for the time being was to be
confined to The Society “ with the strictest security against
its unpermitted dissemination.” C. C. Massey, in a circular
IN INDIA 187
to members, proposed that Dr. Anna Kingsford, the author
of The P erfect Way, or the Finding of Christ, should be elect­
ed President. This was duly done. Frederick W. H.
Myers joined The Society at this meeting. Mr. and Mrs.
Sinnett both took a keen interest in the work. Through
Massey, Mr. Sinnett became acquainted with a group of
members of the Society for Psychical Research—Myers,
Gurney and Sidgwick, by whom he was impressed. In
June the English Fellows decided, at Mrs. Kingsford’s wish,
to change their name to the London Lodge of The Theo-
sophical Society. This was the first time a Branch was
called a Lodge, no doubt because the Founders spoke of the
Great Brotherhood as ‘ The Lodge.’ This decision was sent
to the President and the suggestion that other Branches
might do likewise. In many countries the title “ Lodge ”
became the usage, while others have retained the older title
Branch,” or its equivalent in translation.
In June Esoteric Buddhism was published, and round the
Sinnetts gathered a group of people to study its contents.
The Lodge passed a resolution that it should devote “ itself
chiefly to the study of occult philosophy as taught by the
Adepts of India with whom Mr. Sinnett has been in communi­
cation.” He was further advised by H. P. B. to have an
“ inner ring ” or “ group ” to whom to give instruction which
he would receive. Many of the meetings had for some time
taken place at Miss Arundale’s house in Elgin Crescent,
where the most interested members met to discuss Occultism.
It was found desirable, and was directed by the President-
Founder in Council, that all applications for Charters in
England should be forwarded through the London Lodge.
On 20 November the Rev. Charles Webster Lead-
beater joined The Society, and expressed an urgent desire to
become a regular “ chela,” or disciple.
Since Col. Olcott had decided to come to England on
behalf of the Ceylon Buddhists, and possibly H. P. B. with
him, Mr. Sinnett received the news with “ dismay.” He quite
188 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
honestly felt the personalities of the Founders would be out
of tune with “ the upper social strata of society," to whom he
had introduced Theosophy. He regarded himself and Mrs.
Sinnett as “ the importers of Theosophy into this country.”
He was even more troubled about the impression Col. Olcott
would make. He feared he would *' set the teeth on edge
with Englishmen of the type of those who were leading the
Psychic Research movement.” 1 He protested to the Master
K. H. through H. P. B., and received a drastic reply.
In the United States very little was done. The Pioneer
Lodge of St. Louis was formed 5 May and in December
Judge and Doubleday succeeded in forming a New York
Branch, called The Aryan Theosophists of New York, with
W. Q. Judge as President. Its objects were : To promote
the study of Aryan and other Eastern religions and sciences,
and vindicate its importance ; to investigate the hidden,
mysteries of Nature, and the psychical powers latent in man ;
and to co-operate in the general work of the Theosophical
Society. Judge was still struggling financially. He started
and edited a little paper called The Candidate.
A group in Paris had been meeting weekly at the
house of M. Evette, where Leymarie, Flammarion and
Cahagnet attended. Two new Branches had been formed in
addition to The Theosophical Society of the French Spiritists
founded in 1879, and under the direction of Leymarie. The
new ones were, “ La Société Theosophique d’Orient et
d Occident, which, 7 June, elected the Duchesse de Pomar
as President ; and La Société Scientifique des Occultistes de
France, to be composed of men of name and fame in science,
with M. le docteur Fortin as President.
The first Branch in Russia was formed at Odessa, with
the Hon. N. A. Fadéef, H. P. B.’s aunt, as President.
1See T h e E a r ly D a y s o f T h eo so p h y in E u ro p e, by A. P. Sinnett.
T H E T. S U B B A B O W M E D A L
A t the December Convention, 1883, it was resolved “ That
a Medal to be called the T. Subba Row Medal be annually-
awarded to any Fellow of The Theosophical Society
who would produce the best essay on any of the following
subjects :
Aryan Occult Science and Philosophy,
Buddhist Esoteric Philosophy,
Chaldean Esoteric Science and Philosophy and Zoroastrianism,
Jewish Kabala and Esoteric Interpretation of the Christian
Religion.”
The Fund was started in 1884, the first donation being
Rs. 100 by “ a Master." The Medal was awarded as follows :
in 1885 to P. Sreenivasa Rao, and in 1888 to Madame H. P.
Blavatsky for her articles in Lucifer on the “ Esotericism of
the Gospels,” though she did not receive the Medal till 1890.
At the Convention of 1888 a Resolution was passed adding
the following conditions :
That the Medal shall be competed for each year, by Essays
written for this purpose by Fellows of The Theosophical Society . . .
The three best of these Essays shall be selected by the President in
Council and shall be read before the Convention . . . The subjects
P
rescribed by the Resolution shall be taken in rotation—one subject
eing proposed each year. The subject for 1889 shall be “ Aryan Occult
Science and Philosophy.” The selected Essay shall be published each
year by The Theosophical Society.
In 1890, after the death of Subba Row, the Fund was
augmented so that the Medal might be awarded annually in
his memory. At the Convention of 1891 it was Resolved
that :
“ In future the Subba Row Medal be awarded by each
Annual Convention to the author of the most valuable
190 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
contribution of the year to Theosophical literature either by
translation into English or original compositions.”
No further awards were made until 1895. The following
is the list of recipients since that date :
1895 to Mrs. Annie Besant 1912to Dr. F. Otto Schrader
1896 „ A. P. Sinnett 1913 „ C. Jinarajadasa
1897 „ C. W. Leadbeater 1923 „ Purnendu Narayan Sinha
1898 „ G. R. S. Mead 1924 .. Ernest Wood
1899 „ W. Scott-Elliot(W. Williamson) 1925 „ Dr. J. J. van der Leeuw
1900 „ Bhagavan Das 1934 „ Mme. Helena Pissareva
1906 „ Dr. T. Pascal 1935 „ Dr. G. S. Arundale
1909 „ Dr. Rudolf Steiner 1936 „ Prof. J. Emile Marcault
1911 „ J. Krishnamurti 1937 No award
T H E F O U N D E R S V IS IT E U R O P E
. . . A man’s chief obligation towards the public at large . . .
will be to conceal the fact that he is a chela, for he has not yet . . .
attained the right to choose who shall and who shall not be introduced to
the “ Mysteries. He merely has to keep the secrets entrusted to him as
such. On the other hand the exigencies of his service may require him
to perform tasks in the world which involve the partial explanation of his
relationship with his Masters, and then a very much more embarrassing
career lies before him . . . ”
—A. P. S innett in I n cid en ts in th e L ife o f M a d a m e B la o a tsk y .
1884
T he Founders were advised to hold mid-year Provincial
Conferences for the benefit of local Branches in other parts
of India than the Madras Presidency. The celebration
of the Anniversary of the Parent Society on the 27 and 28
December “ will be invariably at the Headquarters in
Madras.” The first Provincial Council was to be held in
Calcutta, 1 August. When in Paris the President cancelled
this meeting as the Founders were absent longer than they
intended, and it was finally decided not to hold such Pro­
vincial Conferences, on the score of expense.
At a Council meeting 20 January, it was decided that
H. P. B. should go to Europe with the President, partly for
reasons of health. The Colonel went to Ceylon, where he
arranged a Buddhist Defence Committee, which decided he
should go to London as their special delegate to plead their
case. He had conferences with the Governor and was pleased
to find that he was a friend of Mr. Sinnett, had read The Theo-
sophical Society’s publications and approved of the Found­
ers’ work. It was agreed with the Buddhists that the
192 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Colonel should : 1. Convince the Home Government of the
actual disabilities under which the Sinhalese Buddhists suf­
fered, as in the attack by Roman Catholics on a Buddhist
religious procession ; 2. Induce the Government to appoint
a Buddhist Registrar of Marriages, so that Buddhists might
not be compelled to be married by an official of hostile religi­
ous belief ; 3. To get some action taken on the question of
management of the temporalities of Buddhist Viharas, whose
rights had long been trampled on by their own lay adminis­
trators, to the shame of Colonial officials who had neglected
their duty ; 4. To try to secure an order declaring Wesak—
the May Full-moon—a public holiday to commemorate the
Lord Buddha’s birthday and also His Enlightenment. When
the Colonel and the High Priest Sumangala paid a final
visit to the Governor, he intimated to them that they
could count upon his friendly action at the right time. All
these points were either satisfactorily settled in London, or
with the Secretary of State for the Colonies, or referred back
to the Governor of Ceylon and settled there.
The Colonel was empowered by Sumangala and other
priests to admit candidates into the ranks of Buddhism on
their taking “ Pansil,” an honour never before conferred upon
a European.
On returning to Adyar he found H. P. B. had gone on
a visit to the Thakur Sahib of Wadhwan, with Dr. Hartmann,
Mohini and Mme. Coulomb. The Colonel, urged by a tele­
gram from H. P. B. to hurry, left 15 February with St. George
Lane-Fox, a new arrival, to meet H. P. B. at Bombay.
Before leaving Adyar the President issued a special order,
designating certain members of the General Council to act as
an Executive Committee, during his absence and to transact all
official business. He added to the Headquarters Executive
Committee, Hartmann, Lane-Fox, W. T. Brown and M.
Coulomb, and changed the name of the Committee to Board
of Control. T. Subba Row was left in charge of The Theo-
sophist. The Supplement hitherto sent to every subscriber
THE FOUNDERS VISIT EUROPE 193
•was now reserved for members only ; partly to be free to
give to those in sympathy accounts of phenomenal and, to
some, sacred occurrences, and also to keep Fellows informed,
through reports, of the work of the Parent Society and the
Branches.
Before H. P. B. left, she issued a Memorandum in
which she protested against the tendency of some members
to look upon the movement “ as a School where Yoga Vidya
and Occultism may be learnt in a more expeditious and easy
way than heretofore, . . . the Theosophical Society pro­
mises no Teachers, no Gurus, to take every member, upon
joining, under Their special charge. . . . No doubt there
are individual members who have been fortunate enough to
be accepted, as Chelas, but their acceptance was due not to
the fact of their being Fellows, but because they have been
living the life and have voluntarily passed through the training
and tests enjoined upon aspirants for occult knowledge of
every age and nationality . . . what the Society expects
from all its Branches and individual members, is co-operation
and help in its grand task of uniting the East and the
West, the North and the South, in a Scientific Brotherhood
armed against dissension and consequent failure by the
principle of Mutual Tolerance and Mutual Intellectual
Sympathy . . .”
In the February Supplement of The Theosophist appeared
the reprint of an article entitled “ Theosophy Again,”
from the Epiphany, the journal of the Oxford Mission. It
said, “ we recognize in Theosophy, or in the Theos-
ophist’s Magazine, or in the Theosophists . . . the
most formidable foe of Christianity in India amongst
educated natives. . . . Some speak of Theosophy
as a mere juggle ; but those who read the Theosophical
publications know that it is a profound theory of the Universe,
the nearest perhaps to the revealed truth of any, as far as it
goes, while the farthest from the revealed truth, when it stops
short and denies all beyond its arbitrary limit.” The writer
13
194 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
envied The Theosophist its “ ardent and laborious band of
contributors.” He referred also to objections raised in The
Theosophist to remarks made at a Clerical Conference of
Europeans and Indians, when the effect of Theosophy upon
Hindus was discussed, and it was noted that the minds of
some Christians were being shaken. But it was agreed not
to take any notice of Col. Olcott, or adopt any measures
against him. In the May Supplement, appeared for the first
time an order from the Recording Secretary, Damodar
K. Mavalankar, that from 1 May no applicant for admis­
sion into The Society should be initiated until the sanction of.
Headquarters was obtained. Two sponsors were necessary
to recommend the applicant—which regulation remained in
force until 1931, when it was abolished by the General.
Council.
Mr. Sinnett was already claiming that the occult infor­
mation in his book, Esoteric Buddhism, was “ given out for
the first time.” This was taken exception to by W. Q. Judge,,
who pointed out, in The Theosophist, that it was all to be
found in the Bhagavad Gîta. H. P. B. replied that Mr..
Sinnett had for the first time clearly explained the Esoteric
Wisdom of the ages, which lay concealed in the allegories in
the Vedas, the Upanishads, and the Bhagavad Gita, and had
hitherto been kept secret from all but initiated Brahmans.
Answering another writer in the April Supplement, she said,
that the bringing to light and the reviving of the ancient learn­
ing of Aryavarta was part of the Theosophical work, and
was “ the real link between the East and the West,,
uniting them in a bond of Intellectual Brotherhood.” In the
same Supplement appeared an advertisement of The Secret
Doctrine, as a new version of Isis Unveiled, with a fresh
arrangement of the matter, large and important additions, and
copious notes and Commentaries, by H. P. Blavatsky,
Corresponding Secretary of The Theosophical Society, assist­
ed by T. Subba Row Garu, B.A., B.L., F. T. S., Councillor
of The Theosophical Society and Secretary of its Madras
THE FOUNDERS VISIT EUROPE 195
Branch. It was to be issued in monthly parts and was to be
completed in two years. This arrangement did not eventuate,
and publication was delayed for four years.1
On the voyage to Europe H. P. B. spent most of her
time revising a French translation of Isis Unveiled. She, Col.
Olcott, Mohini and a young Parsi made up the party.
They reached Marseilles, 13 March, and were received by
Baron Spedalieri and Commandant Courmes. The Com­
mandant had put on full naval uniform to honour the visitors.
To his amazement H. P. B. came ashore dressed eccentrical­
ly in a red Garibaldi shirt and a toque with waving plumes.
He gallantly offered her his arm to take her shopping. Such
was her air and such her beautiful hands that the shop-girls,
inclined to smile at her bizarre costume, were impressed
instead.
H. P. B. and the Colonel went to Nice , to visit the
Duchesse de Pomar. The rest of the party travelled on to
Paris and London. The Duchesse made her visitors at home
in her large artistic apartments in the Palace Tiranti, and
drew round them “ the cream of the nobility,” who flocked
to the Riviera. The Duchesse (Lady Caithness) arranged
for the Colonel to give talks, and H. P. B. was happy to
meet many of her compatriots. One evening M. Flammarion
gave a talk, a man whose scientific intuition the Masters
commended. Their visit concluded with a meeting of mem­
bers and friends.
Arriving in Paris, 28 March, they were met by
W. Q. Judge, Mohini and Dr. Thurmann, and settled into
a flat which had been taken for them by Lady Caithness.
The new French Branch was interested in the idea that for
the success of The Theosophical Society in the West “ it
must recognise the Christian forms of Theosophy, and
encourage the study of these, as well as those of the Orient.
This would create a position to compare and prove the
1See “ How T h e S e c r e t D o ctr in e was Written,” in the Adyar Edition
of T h e S e c r e t D o ctrin e, 1938, by the present writer.
196 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
substantial identity of the two systems, “ a course more than
any other calculated to create a firm bond of Brotherhood."
Col. Olcott pursued his studies in Mesmerism and
visited famous healers, in whose methods he was keenly
interested. H. P. B. held discussions at various houses,
and these talks were embodied by Lady Caithness in
her book The M ystery o f the Ages. The two Founders
had long talks with Judge, who had at last been able
to set out for India, for he was still troubled as to why
he was not encouraged when he was so willing to work.
He thought a big movement in the United States was pos­
sible, though the position there was still disheartening.
Evidently they discussed a successor to H. P. B ., for Judge
recommended Mrs. L. C. Holloway, a clairvoyante, and pupil
of the Master K. H.
H. P. B. remained in Paris, and presently spent about
three weeks with the Comtesse d’Adhemar at her beautiful
place on the lac d’ Enghien, and was there visited by Judge,
Bertram Keightley, and other devoted members of The
Society. The Colonel and Mohini went to London, 5 April,
and in the train on the way, as the Colonel was considering
the problems that had arisen in the London Lodge, there fell
through the roof of the carriage a note in the Master K. H.’s
handwriting, containing advice as to how to meet the diffi­
culties. In London he was the guest of the Sinnetts.
One of the special objects of the London Lodge was, “ The
reconstruction of religion on a scientific, and of science on a
religious, basis ; and the elaboration of a perfect system of
thought and rule of life.” When Mrs. Kingsford took office
in the Lodge, 1883, she desired that this rule should apply to
Christianity, and not only to Hinduism or Buddhism. She
was “ an independent worker and contributor to esoteric
religious science,” but was not a member of The Society
when C. C. Massey appealed to her to take office as Presi­
dent of the Lodge. Her co-worker, Dr. Edward Maitland
(also a non-member), was invited to the Vice-Presidency.
THE FOUNDERS VISIT EUROPE 197
At the election of officers for 1884, she proposed that two
Sections be created in the Lodge: (I) Fellows desirous of
pursuing exclusively the teaching of the Tibetan Mahatmas,
and to recognise them as Masters, with Mr. Sinnett as Presi­
dent ; (2) Was to adopt a broader basis, and encourage the
study of Esoteric Christianity and of the Occidental Theo­
sophy out of which it arose. This Section might be known
as “ The Catholic Section.” Fellows might freely attend each
other’s meetings. Mrs. Kingsford felt certain that sooner or
later “ Esoteric Christianity will be proclaimed as a religious
science in the Western half of the world.” She thought the
teachings of the Mahatmas materialistic, her own spiritual.
Dr. Maitland wrote to the President that it was because he
earnestly desired “ to rescue the divine and lovely teaching
of Christianity from the abyss of anthropomorphism, idolatry
and contempt, that I have deprecated with fervour the ap­
parent endorsement given in The Theosophist to coarse and
ignorant ribaldry with which these teachings are befouled by
writers of certain anti-Christian tracts.” He felt that the sources
of The P erfect Way were just as valid as those of H.P.B.,
and the sources of Dr. Kingsford’s information “ as trust­
worthy as the wisdom of the Mahatmas themselves.” These
views raised considerable feeling, and the question of the
next Lodge President was freely discussed.
The election took place on 7 April, with Col. Olcott
presiding. G. B. Finch was elected President ; A. P. Sinnett,
Vice-President and Secretary, and Miss F. Arundale, Trea­
surer. One of the five Councillors was Prof. (Sir) William
Crookes.
The Kingsford-Maitland group were vexed at the
course the elections had taken, as Dr. Kingsford—a
woman of great force of character—had wished to be
President, but they remained silent. Mr. Sinnett was speaking
when, suddenly, into the midst of this somewhat tense meet­
ing came, astonishingly, H. P. B., whom everyone thought
to be in Paris. There was much excitement. The meeting
198 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
broke off to greet her. She was conducted to the platform
and introduced to those present. She then said that if mem­
bers had any inquiries to make with regard to obscure
passages in Isis Unveiled, they would receive attention and be
made the subject of explanations in the new version of the
book to be brought out under the title The Secret Doctrine.
Mr. Myers enquired whether documentary evidence could be
obtained from India for the service of the Psychic Research
Society (S. P. R.) in reference to cases in which the astral
apparitions of the Mahatmas had been seen at various times
and places. H. P. B. made Mohini answer. He described
a recent appearance of the astral figure of one of the Mahatmas
at the Headquarters at Adyar. “ Col. Olcott expressed his
heartiest sympathy with the labours of the Psychic Research
Society.”1 Thus began that curious inquiry into the question
of the appearances of the Masters which ended so dis­
astrously, for none had the capacity to judge that which they
were examining.
H. P. B. stayed for a week with the Sinnetts. One day
she went to Prof. William Crookes’ laboratory to see his ex­
periments. Visitors flocked to see her, among them the
Countess Wachtmeister, and the Keightleys, Archibald and
Bertram. On her return to Paris, 15 April, she was escort­
ed as far as Boulogne by Mrs. Gebhard and her son Arthur,
German members.
The Kingsford group applied for a Charter to form a
separate Branch, to which the President agreed. On 9
April he met Dr. Kingsford and her partisans at Massey’s
Chambers, and organised the Hermetic Theosophical Society.
Oscar Wilde and his mother were present, and Mohini gave
an excellent address. But the problem was not settled, as
the members of the Hermetic Branch wished to belong also
to the London Lodge, so as to benefit by the course of
instruction being given there. This Col. Olcott disallowed,
and made a Provisional Rule forbidding multiple membership.
1T h e E a rly D a y s o f T h eo so p h y in E u ro p e, p. 56.
THE FOUNDERS VISIT EUROPE 199
This decision upset the plans for the Hermetic Lodge. The
Colonel suggested that Mrs. Kingsford return her Charter and
form her friends into an independent Society, and thus make
it feasible for them to belong to both. This was done.
On the 16th an American member of the Society for
Psychical Research gave a dinner for Col. Olcott at the Junior
Athenasum Club, inviting leading members of the •Society
to meet him, among them Prof. William Crookes, F.R.S.,
Prof. W.F. Barrett, F.R.S.E., A. P. Sinnett, Frank Podmore, M .A .,
F. W. H. Myers, and Edmund Gurney. Next day he, with
Mohini, visited Prof. Crookes’ laboratory, and were shown
his “ Radiant Matter ” experiments. That evening they went
to Sinnett’s house for an “ Inner Circle ” meeting of The
Theosophical Society.
From time to time Col. Olcott saw Massey who, still
strongly spiritualistic, was turning against H. P. B., and was
suspicious of some of her phenomena. Mrs. Tennant,
mother-in-law of F. W. H. Myers, gave a dinner for the
Colonel, and there he met Sir Edwin Arnold, author of The
Light o f Asia. On 2 May the Colonel went to Oxford at the
invitation of Lord Russell, an undergraduate cousin of Lane-
Fox, who gathered a number of his College friends to hear
the Colonel speak. Next day Mr. Ionides, F.T.S., a wealthy
retired Greek merchant gave a sumptuous dinner-party at
which all the guests were Theosophists. Sinnett gave the
Colonel a great reception at his own house, where the rooms
were crowded.
Col. Olcott stayed one night with Myers, at Cambridge,
where he attended a meeting of the local branch of the
S. P. R. Other dinner parties and engagements kept him
busy, and he realised that, owing to Mr. Sinnett’s efforts,
there was considerable interest in Theosophical ideas
throughout London social circles. The Press was giving
friendly accounts about the Founders and their work, and
was sympathetic to Col. Olcott’s Buddhist Mission. Mohini
too, was winning his way ; both in France and in London
200 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THÈOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
his gift of exposition of philosophy and metaphysics con­
tributed to the success of this European visit. He and
Mrs. Holloway wrote a book called Man : A Fragment o f
Forgotten History, by Two Chelas, published in 1885.
On 11 May, having expressed his willingness to be
examined, the Colonel met a Committee appointed by the
S. P. R. His replies were at times careless and in­
accurate on matters of detail, and these were used
against him with deadly effect later on. On the 28th he
attended a large public meeting of the S. P. R., at which lie-
described some experiments he had made with Stack, which
showed that the exercise of thought “ causes an emission of
psychic luminous aura.” The members of this Society were
apparently sympathetic and were met with cordiality and
unsuspicious friendliness on Col. Olcott’s part.
On 13 May the President issued a “ Special Order ” con­
stituting a Board of Control to act as a central management
for The Theosophical Society in the United States. He
appointed Wm. B. Shelley and Mrs. Josephine W. Cables
(President and Secretary respectively of the Rochester
Branch), G. F. Parsons, Elliott B. Page, T. M. Johnson, Gen.
A. Doubleday and Dr. J. H. D. Buck as members of the
Board, leaving it to them to agree upon a Chairman and
Secretary. The latter officer was to transmit all returns to
the Recording Secretary at Adyar, and the Board was to-
keep an accurate but private register of all Branches and
their members. Expenses of the Board were to be met by a
small per capita assessment.
While in London the President issued, 30 April, another
“ Special Order” appointing Miss F. Arundale Assistant
Treasurer of The Theosophical Society. She was to have
special charge in Europe of The Society’s financial affairs,,
and to receive and receipt all monies payable to it, including
initiation fees.
The President left for Paris, 30 May, where he took the
opportunity of visiting the Salpétrière to see some of the
THE FOUNDERS VISIT EUROPE 201
mesmeric and hypnotic experiments which were carried
on there. H. P. B. had returned to Paris and Lady
Caithness gave a grand meeting for them both in her
palatial house. Rather to their discomfort the Founders
were made to sit in two huge throne-like gilt chairs. The
famous publicist Yves Guyot and his materialistic friends had
been invited to meet them, and asked many questions about
the alleged powers in man. They then said they would feel
obliged if the Founders would show them phenomenal proof
of such teachings. H. P. B. refused point blank to do any
marvels. M. Guyot and his friends were much dissatisfied,
and the evening ended unhappily. Guyot later made
insulting and disparaging remarks about H. P. B.
The President cancelled, 3 June, the Charter held by
Dr. Fortin and his associates, as they had not conformed to
>
the Rules, and abolished the “ provisional organisation” with
Leymarie at the head, because he could not, “ owing to official
relations, function as President of a Branch.”
The Colonel, and Judge, returned to London, 13 June,
where he was the guest of the Arundales. He held meetings
of The Society, and again went to dinners and receptions—
at one of which he met again Sir Edwin Arnold, who gave
him some of the precious MSS. of the first draft of The
Light o f Asia, and on another occasion met Prof. (Sir) Oliver
Lodge. At a reception at Mme de Steigers, Prof. Elliott
Coues of the Smithsonian Institute was present. He had
come from America to meet H. P. B. and the President.
In New York, 1878, Col. Olcott had persuaded an artist
to make a picture of his Master, according to his description.
The likeness was in profile. Now, in London, he consulted
several artists to try to obtain a better one, but none were
exact or fine enough. Then a well known German painter,
Herr Hermann Schmiechen, joined The Society and
agreed to try. Col. Olcott gave him the original sketch
and visited him several times, and once with H. P. B.,
who had arrived on 28 June. The result was the magnificent
202 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
portrait of the Elder Brother, which is still well preserved at
Adyar. Schmiechen afterwards painted an equally fine and
living portrait of the Master K. H., also kept at Adyar.
During the painting of these portraits the Master often put his
hand on the artist’s head or arm.
The President went to Scotland early in July to stay at
Ravenstone with Lord and Lady Borthwick, who had
recently ioined. He went on to Edinburgh, gave a lecture,
and organised, 17 July, the “ Scottish Theosophical Society.”
The men composing this Branch wished to conceal their
names, and refused outsiders admission to their meetings.
The London Lodge held an open meeting, 21 July, at
Princes Hall, as a public farewell in honour of the Founders,
at which the Colonel and Mohini spoke. About 500 were
present, persons distinguished in science, literature, diplomacy
and society, The Colonel went to Elberfeld, Germany,
to stay with the Gebhards in their beautiful house.
Mrs. Gebhard had a choice library of occult books and had
for seven years been a pupil of Eliphas Levi. Friends called,
among them, Prof. Coues and Dr. Hiibbe Schleiden. On 27
July a meeting was held in Mrs. Gebhards “ occult room ”
when the Germania Theosophical Society was founded, with
Dr. Hiibbe Schleiden as President.
Col. Olcott visited various towns, interesting people
in The Society and its work. In the train, on the way to
Dresden with Hiibbe Schleiden, the latter received a letter
from the Master K. H., answering a question just put by him
to the Colonel. At Weisser Hirsch, Baron O. von Hoffman
was bringing out a German translation of hsoteric Buddhism.
At Ammerland Baron and Baroness du Prel, Baron E. von
Weber, Prof. G." and Mrs. Max and others were initiated. After
a trip down the lovely Rhine from Mainz to Cologne, they
returned to Elberfeld. On 17 August H. P. B., Mrs. Hollo­
way, Mrs. and Miss Arundale, B. Keightley, Mohini, and
Mme Fadeef, arrived from London. About ten days later
1T h e M a h a tm a L etters, p. 349. - A celebrated painter.
THE FOUNDERS VISIT EUROPE 203
Vasevolod Solovioff came, and helped H. P. B. with her
Secret Doctrine MSS., as did Myers also. Several letters
appeared phenomenally during this period, which all agreed
could not have given any opportunity for collusion by
H. P. B. with any member of the party. Schmiechen came
to make alterations to the portraits of the Masters, under
H. P. B.’s direction, and painted two of H. P. B. herself.
Mr. Judge left London at the end of June and arrived, 15
July, at Bombay, where he was met by Tookaram Tatya and
other members. . He lectured in the Framji Cowasji Hall on
“ Theosophy and the Destiny of India,” and also at Hydera­
bad, where P. Iyalu Naidu was Secretary of the Branch. At
Gooty, besides a lecture, he gave instruction to members in
mesmerism, and suggested experiments in psychometry and
crystal reading. He reached Adyar, 10 August, where he
found but little excitement over the Coulomb letters. The
Founders had so often been maligned that this new attack
seemed no more important than those which had preceded it.
But Judge was not happy at Headquarters. He was ill and
restless, and, in October, decided to return to the United
States. He and Hartmann did not readily get on together.
Hartmann afterwards admitted that he had dropped a
bogus “ Letter ” on Judge’s head, ordering him back to
America, though Judge averred that his departure was
in no way influenced by Hartmann, and that he had his
own reasons for leaving. In later years he often harked
back to this brief visit, but always with a sense of uneasiness
that he had not made the most of it. He began to feel that
the strength of The Theosophical Society was not in India,
but in the West, and that the West should not be neglected
as in the past.
On 8 September came the first intimation from Damodar
to the party at Elberfeld of the pending attack in Madras
from the missionaries, incited by Mme Coulomb, who had
for some time been breathing vengeance against The Theo­
sophical Society. The Christian College Magazine, September,
204 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
published an article entitled The Collapse o f Koothoomi,
by Mme Coulomb, accusing H. P. B. of having produced
fraudulent phenomena with the assistance of herself and her
husband. She supported her attack with letters she alleged
were written by H. P. B. Mme Coulomb’s antagonism to
The Society had become so evident during H. P. B.’s-
absence, that the Board of Control had been forced to dis­
miss her.
The Calcutta correspondent of The Times, London,
telegraphed to Col. Olcott, 23 September, for information
about the Coulomb expose, and Lane Fox, who arrived next
day from India, explained what had happened. H. P. B.
was exceedingly upset. As the news grew worse and a
cable from Hartmann asked the Colonel to return at once,
a Council meeting was held—and Resolutions of confidence
in H. P. B. were adopted. The President and B. Keightley
left for London, and there another Council meeting adopted
the Resolutions. H. P. B. followed them to London about
a week later. The Colonel crossed over to Paris, saw many
of the members, then left for India, accompanied by Rudolph
Gebhard.
On arriving, 10 November, in Bombay, the President
convened a meeting of members and agreed upon a policy to
adopt. He lectured at the Framji Cowasji Hall to an enthu­
siastic audience on “ Theosophy Abroad.” He stopped at
Poona on the way to consult Judge Khandalawala on the
Coulomb problem and secured his support for his policy. He
was met at Madras, 15 November, by members and students
who gave him an address and garlanded him. He lectured
next evening at Pachaiappa’s Hall to an immense crowd. He
began at once to rebuild the “ occult room,” as the previous
one leaked, and he wished to make a place more worthy of
the new portraits. He went to Ceylon, 1 December, to report
on Buddhist affairs. The Governor promised him that Wesak
should be a national holiday, and this was proclaimed on 23
April, 1885.
THE FOUNDERS VISIT EUROPE 205
H. P. B., left Liverpool, 5 October, with Mr. and Mrs.
Cooper-Oakley, and was joined at Port Said by Mr. Lead-
beater. Their journey was interrupted by a visit to Cairo
to make enquiries about Mme Coulomb. H. P. B. was
received in Cairo with honour. The Prime Minister, Nubar
Pasha, a great Egyptologist, invited the party to dinner, and he
accepted a Diploma of Honorary membership in The Society.
At soirees H. P. B. met high Egyptian and English officials,
and an old Russian friend insisted on her going to the Vice­
reine’s reception. The Russian Consul, M. Hitrovo, was
very attentive to H. P. B., sending her every morning a great
bouquet of lovely flowers, and treating her in every way as a
person of distinction. She introduced the party to M. Mas-
pero the curator of Boulak Museum, to whom she gave a
mass of interesting information about the various objects
in his care.
On arriving in Ceylon, Mr. Leadbeater decided to take
“ Pansil,” and thus became a Buddhist. At Madras, 17
December, H. P. B. was given a tumultuous reception at the
wharf and taken to Pachaiappa’s Hall, which was packed to
suffocation. An address, bearing 500 signatures, was read
by a student of the Christian College on behalf of students
of his own and other Colleges. After the cheering had died
down, H. P. B. made one of her rare speeches. She said
that of the letters published by Mme Coulomb, not one, as it
stood, had been written by her.
When Convention met on the 27th, the President pro­
posed the building of a Parthenon to house the portraits
of the Founders of the World’s Religions, and Rs. 4,000
were subscribed. On the 28th speeches were made by
the foreign delegates, Mrs. Cooper-Oakley’s being special­
ly well received. Baron Ernest von Weber, F. T. S. “ Presi­
dent of the German League against Scientific Cruelty ’’ made
an appeal to the Convention on behalf of the International
Association for the Suppression of Vivisection. It was at
this Convention that the President instituted the custom,
206 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
long followed, of having each foreign delegate represent and
read the report of one of the overseas Branches. He was
made sole Trustee of the Adyar Estate. A Committee
(proposed by Subba Row) was formed to receive and direct
further Esoteric Teachings and transmit them to the Inner
Group (London) and Branches. The Masters consented to
detail a Committee of their regular chelas to give material to
this Committee through Subba Row and Damodar.1 The mem­
bers were also to help The Theosophist by writing for it. The
Missionary attack upon H. P. B. was discussed. She had
vehemently desired to have herself cleared of the cruel charges
of falsehood and fraud. She demanded that the Coulomb’s
record should be exposed, so as to. show the valuelessness
their assertions against her. She fretted and stormed and
threatened to go to a lawyer to file her affidavit ; but the
Colonel threatened her with his resignation if she did, and
said that the Convention should decide between them.
At Convention he argued that H.P.B.’s trial would
resolve itself into a “ trial of the Esoteric Philosophy and of
the existence of the Mahatmas, and, as these subjects are the
most sacred, not only to Hindus but to occultists of all
religions . . . the prospect is shocking to their feelings.”
A Committee was appointed which was to submit its decision,
to the Convention. Following the lead given by the Presi­
dent, it feebly resolved that the letters published were—
“ Only a pretext to injure the cause of Theosophy ; and as these
letters necessarily appear absurd to those who are acquainted with our
philosophy and facts, and as those who are not acquainted with those
facts could not have their opinion changed even by a judicial verdict in
favour of Madame Blavatsky, therefore it is the unanimous opinion of this
Committee that Madame Blavatsky should not prosecute her defamers in
a Court of Law."
So the teacher to whom all owed so much, the real
Founder-builder of The Society, was left defenceless by “ the
1The Committee consisted of : Col. H. S. Olcott, Madame H. P.
Blavatsky, T. Subba Row, b.a. b.l., Damodar K. Mavalankar, A. J.
Cooper-Oakley, Mrs. Cooper-Oakley, S. Ramaswami Iyer.
THE INDIAN NATIONAL CONGRESS 207
faint-heartedness of the chief Theosophists,” 1to be branded
with any name her enemies chose. The only thing to be
said in extenuation is that neither Col. Olcott nor the Com-
mitttee foresaw what lay ahead in the next few months.
A PPE N D IX
T H E IN D IA N N A TIO N A L CONG-BESS
During the course of this 1884 Convention, seventeen of those-
present, either members or friends and sympathisers were fired
with the idea of doing something to help India. They went
across to Madras and held a meeting at the house of Dewan
Bahadur Ragunath Row. Among them were men who
became famous in the political life of India, and who “ out of
their love and their hope conceived the idea of a political.
National movement for the saving of the Motherland.”
It was decided to hold a meeting of Representatives of
the Indian National Union, as they called themselves, at
Poona, 25 December, 1885. However, when the time
arrived it was found necessary, because of an outbreak of
cholera, to hold the meetings in Bombay. Indirectly, this Con­
ference was to be “ the germ of a Native Parliament and if
properly conducted will constitute in a few years an un­
answerable reply to the assertion that India is unfit for any
form of representative institution.” It was called “ The
Indian National Congress.” A. O. Hume came from Simla
to attend the Conference. He was made a member of the
first Subjects Committee, 1887, and assisted in the framing of
the Congress Rules. He was General Secretary, by election,
of the Congress from 1884-91. For these and other services
he became known as the “ Father of the Congress.”
1W h y I d o n o t retu rn to In d ia , by H. P. B., written in 1890. See
T h e T h eo so p h ist, Jan., 1933.
208 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
It is admitted “ that the Theosophical movement in
India was the forerunner of the more recent political movement
symbolised in the National Congress . . . and that Theo­
sophy sowed the seeds of a rapid nationalisation . . . ’
As all the world knows, the Congress Party now forms
the Government in the majority of British India Provinces.
The part Dr. Annie Besant plaj'ed in its development will
appear in due course.
T H E C O U LO M B C O N SPIR A C Y
(1884-5)
T he acquaintance of H. P. B. with Madame Coulomb began
about 1871. After H. P. B.’s shipwreck, a Miss Emma
Cutting, on the staff of a small hotel, had been friendly
to her in Cairo. Miss Cutting became Madame Coulomb,
and H. P. B. learned of the unreliable character of both
Madame and her husband when, in 1884, she sought
information as to their antecedents, and why they had
been forced to flee the country as bankrupts. When they
came to the Founders in Bombay, 1880, the Coulombs
were penniless, and were given home and shelter and the
freedom of H. P. B.’s purse, but no wages—the Founders
were far too poor to offer them any. H. P. B. knew the
Coulombs would prove treacherous. She revolted against
keeping in the house two such enemies who would try to
destroy The Society. She asked advice and the Master
replied in these famous words : “ So long as there are three
men worthy of our Lord’s blessing in The Theosophical
Society it can never be destroyed.” He added : They are
homeless and hungry : shelter and feed them then, if you
would not become participant in her Karma.” 1 In spite
of kindliness, and though they became members of The
Society, Madame Coulomb offered to sell H. P. B.’s
1secrets ” to the Rev. Bowen of the Bombay Guardian. She
was always ready to deprecate The Society and its Founders
to anyone ready to listen, and she had a flair, objected
to by everyone, for prying into other people’s affairs.
1T h e T h eo so p h isl, August 1931, pp. 636-7.
14
210 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
M. Coulomb was a clever carpenter and draughtsman with a
gift for being able to copy other people’s writing, and with a
handwriting not unlike H. P. B.’s own.
While the Founders were in Europe, 1884, the members
of the Board of Control at Adyar could tolerate Mme Coulomb
no longer. She made mischief and breathed vengeance,,
because she felt injured that she had been prevented by
H. P. B. from badgering Prince Harisinghji into giving her
money, which she wanted so as to be able to go away
and set up another hotel. The Board gave both Coulombs
notice to leave. It was difficult to induce them to depart.
Coulomb had been given the key of H. P. B.’s room, with
instructions to look after it, and to make certain alterations.
No one interfered with him, for all were accustomed to
his repairing activities. The Coulombs shut themselves-
away upstairs after H.P. B. left, and did as they liked.
While the Founders were in Paris, Subba Row wrote to
H. P. B. asking her if she had ever written any com­
promising letters to Mme Coulomb, and if so to buy them
from her at any price, rather than allow Madame to ruin her
or The Theosophical Society. H. P. B. replied she had
never written her anything that she “ should fear to see
published.”
The Coulombs finally betook themselves to the mis­
sionaries in Madras, who lent them a willing ear, and
grasped the opportunity Mme Coulomb offered them of
damaging H. P. B. and The Society. They were appar­
ently only too glad to publish in the Christian College
Magazine, September and October 1884, long and shame­
ful articles by Mme. Coulomb, for which she was paid,,
in which she pretended to know and expose the methods by
means of which H. P. B. had produced her phenomena, and
explained the part she alleged she and her husband had
played as accessories. Both the missionaries and the Anglo-
Indians were antagonistic to H. P. B., and persistently re­
garded her as a “ Russian spy,” and disliked the way she took
THE COULOMB CONSPIRACY 211
the part of the Hindus. Hodgson had their sympathy when he
resurrected the old “ Russian spy” scare, on the score
of H. P. B.’s excitement about news of a Russian
military movement on the Afghan frontier. He asked him­
self if, after all, H. P. B. had set herself to foster disaffection
among Hindus towards British rule. Much of the Indian
Press took H. P. B.’s part, feeling that the missionaries
attacked the Hindu religion and philosophy under the guise
of exposing her “ trickery.”
When in England, Col. Olcott had made friendly
contact with leading members of the Society for Psy­
chical Research. They were interested in the pheno­
mena produced by H. P. B., and in the appearances of
the Masters of which they had heard, and of which the
Colonel and Mohini spoke quite freely in answer to their
questions. In May 1884, the Council of the S. P. R. appoint­
ed a Committee for the purpose of taking such evidence as
to alleged phenomena connected with The Theosophical
Society as might be offered by members of The Society who
were at that time in England, or as collected elsewhere. The
members of the Committee were E. Gurney, F. W. H. Myers,
F. Podmore, Henry Sidgwick and J. H. Stack, to which were
added Mrs. Sidgwick and R. Hodgson. It should be kept in
mind that these were persons of literary, academic and other
distinctions, some of whom were accustomed to spiritualistic
investigations ; but none knew anything of the rationale of
Occultism, or of unusual yogic powers. Yoga was to them
a completely unknown science. They had no qualifications
whatever which would render them competent or reliable
judges of such matters.
The Committee had the opportunity in London of
examining Madame Blavatsky, Col. Olcott, Mohini M. Chat-
terji and Mr. Sinnett. The ground to be covered by their
enquiry was : (1) As to the appearance of phantasms of the
living ; (2) The projection and material constitution of the
human Double ; (3) Appearances and communication with the
212 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
same at distances from the physical body ; (4) Visits to the
witnesses from living Adepts ; (5) Apports of ponderable
objects ; (6) Astral bell-sounds ; (7) The phenomenal receipt of
written documents ; (8) The precipitation of Mahatmic writing
within closed letters from ordinary correspondents while in
transit through the mails ; (9) The giving of flowers by an
Adept’s double to a group of observers.
The Colonel and Mohini answered all questions fully,
with a stenographer reporting. The Committee decided to
issue a preliminary and provisional Report, which was
circulated among members of the Society only. They con­
cluded that there was a prima facie case for some part at least
of the claim made, which could not be ignored. They thought
it necessary that “ an actual residence for some months in
India of some trusted observer . . . is an almost necessary
pre-requisite for any more definite judgment.”
On 30 June H. P. B. and Col. Olcott attended the
Psychical Research Society’s meeting, where something
went wrong. The Colonel seems to have said or done
something unwise, besides making an ill-advised speech
about the Masters, and H. P. B. was furious with him. In
any case, seeds of suspicion were sown ; they soon
sprouted.
As the Coulomb letters were just out, it was considered
important by the S. P. R. to find out, by due examina­
tions, if these were forgeries or not, though such an exami­
nation was manifestly none of their business. They chose
as investigator for the Committee a Mr. Richard Hodgson,
B.A., an Australian, a protege of Prof. Sidgwick, who had
paid for him to study in Germany. He seems to have had
no first-hand acquaintance with psychic phenomena. He
went to India, November 1884, where he was received as a
friend at Adyar. Col. Olcott and H. P. B. gave him every
opportunity of studying the available records. He studied
also Mme Coulomb’s side of the case. He thought some
of the witnesses credulous and deficient in observation.
THE COULOMB CONSPIRACY 213
No doubt they were, these are common faults ; but it
would appear that Hodgson’s own mind had a distinct
bias—to read fraud into everything. He persistently refused
to allow H. P. B. to see the supposed originals of the
letters published in the Christian College Magazine, though
he had them in his pocket when he came to see her.
The letters purporting to be written by H. P. B. were sub­
mitted to several supposed experts who, after changing their
minds, pronounced them genuine. Later they were pro­
nounced not genuine by a German expert who saw “ not
the remotest similarity” between H. P. B.’s writing and
that in the “ Mahatma Letters.” H. P. B. declared the
Coulomb letters “ interpolated forgeries.” It was her word
against the Coulombs. Hodgson decided in favour of the
Coulombs, and he considered as worthless all evidence
except that provided by them. He made out H. P. B. as a
“ cunning prestidigitatrice, with elaborate preparations and
carefully planned surprises, carried out by astute con­
federates.” 1
As regards “ the Shrine,” H. P. B. gave a plain story of
its purpose : that it was designed and constructed by the
Coulombs so as to be able to take it to pieces to put in her
trunk to take with her to the hills. There is every reason to
suspect that Coulomb tampered with it, and with the wall
during H. P. B.’s absence, for the grooves were new and un­
used. Some of the Masters’ Letters were submitted very
freely by Hume, Sinnett, and others to Hodgson for examina­
tion, and he took it upon himself to decide in whose hand­
writing they were.
The impression gathered from a careful reading of the
Report is that Hodgson was prepared to admit anything but
the simple fact that the Masters communicated with H. P. B.
and others by unusual but adequate methods. As H. P. B.
said, “ I am unable to prove the reality of the phenomena
produced in any court of law, no more can Hodgson & Co.,
1C o n ce r n in g H . P . B „ by G. R. S. Mead, 1920.
2]4 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
prove their unreality otherwise than on circumstantial evidence
and their own prejudged idea.”
Hodgson returned in April 1885 to present his inaccurate
and misleading Report. At the General Meeting of the
S. P. R., held 24 June, with F. W. H. Myers in the Chair,
Prof. Sidgwick read the conclusions expressed by the Com­
mittee appointed to investigate phenomena connected with
The Theosophical Society. Without the slightest reference to
those most concerned, they pronounced this unjust verdict on
H. P. B. : “ For our own part we regard her neither as the
mouthpiece of hidden seers, nor as a mere vulgar adven­
turess ; we think she has achieved a title to permanent re­
membrance as one of the most accomplished, ingenious, and
interesting imposters in history.” This cruel judgment was
for many years repeated in the Encyclopaedia Britannica.
It has recently been omitted.
It has to be remembered against the S.P.R. that they never
called upon any qualified person to examine or criticise the
Hodgson Report. Nor did they permit the accused person
to make any reply. H. P. B. was, as she said, “ the
victim of a most damnable conspiracy.” She also said
that phenomena would go on as it always had, and would
show that the Mahatmas were certainly no creation of her
own. In 1895, four years after her death, V. S. Solovyoff
(Solovloff) wrote a series of articles in a Russian paper
about H. P. B. The S. P. R., not content with the wrong it
had already done her, caused these articles to be translated,
abridged, and made into a book by Walter Leaf, D.Lrrr.
which was published on its behalf. The book was called A
Modern Priestess o f Isis. In the Prefatory Note, Henry
Sidgwick wrote that they thought Solovyoff’s “ entertaining
narrative ” should be made accessible to English readers ;
“ not so much that they might desire additional proof that she
was a charlatan—a question already judged and decided—
but rather some explanation of the remarkable success of her
imposture. . . . Whether The Theosophical Society is likely
THE COULOMB CONSPIRACY 215
to last much longer—I am not in a position to say, but even
if it were to expire next year, its twenty years of existence
would be a phenomenon of some interest to the historian of
European society in the nineteenth century . . Solovyoff’s
statements were not in any way challenged or verified,
he too was swallowed whole by the S. P. R. As H. P. B.’s
niece, Vera Johnston, wrote, this book was practically a work
of fiction . . . “ the private letters of a dead woman, genuine
and honest; and the narrative of a living romancer, largely
fictitious.” Solovyoff’s work was full of inuendoes, and he
betrayed H. P. B. and her family without scruple.1
In [904, twenty years later, Mme Coulomb’s forged
¡letters were reissued by the Christian Literature Society, on
behalf of the still antagonistic missionaries, as “ An Incident
in the Early History of Theosophy in India.” Such a publi­
cation reflects no credit on the Christian Literature Society,
nor does the Foreword by which it is introduced.
Writing in 1920 “ Concerning H. P. B.” G. R. S. Mead
said “ . . . Dr. Hodgson himself has so fundamentally altered
his own position, owing to his now mature first hand experi­
ence, [with the medium, Mrs. Piper], that one need not be
held to be departing entirely from an impartial judgment in
thinking it more probable that Dr. Hodgson’s inexperienced
hypotheses with regard to Mme Blavatsky are not to be pre­
ferred to the many years of testimony in her favour brought
forward by her friends in all countries.”
Some years later, when Dr. Besant met Dr. Hodgson (he
had become an LL.D.) he gave her the impression that he
had lived to see the truth of the phenomena he had earlier
denied. He told her that “ he would have given a very dif­
ferent report had he known in 1885 what he learned after­
wards.” ' In October 1925 Dr. J. H. Cousins met Sir William
Barrett, who volunteered the opinion that a wrong had been
•done H. P. B. by the S. P. R. on the Coulomb affair ; and
1See T h e T h eo so p h isl, Feb., 1894.
2See T h e R e a l a n d th e U n rea l, by Annie Besant, p. 9, 1923.
216 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
that Hodgson had come to believe in quite as extraordinary
things as he had condemned in the case of H. P. B. Sir
William hoped that the Report, which was a blot on the
proceedings of the S. P. R., would some day be withdrawn.'
As H. P. B. wrote to Mrs. Sinnett of the S. P. R., of
Myers and of Hodgson : “ How terribly they will be laughed
at some day.” '
1 The Theosophist, Vol. xlvii (1), p. 5.
• For some at least of the fulfilment of this prophecy, see D efence o f
Madame Blavatsky, Vol.11,“The Coulomb Pamphlet,"by Beatrice Hastings,.
1937, for a close and careful analysis of the fallacious argument presented
in the S. P. R. Report. Mrs. Hasting's determination is to secure, if
possible, the withdrawal of the Report.
See also, “ Did Madame Blavatsky Forge the Mahatma Letters.” By
C. Jinarajadasa, in The Thcosophist, beginning September, 1933, p. 635.
These articles were reprinted as a book (with thirty illustrations) in 1934.
In his Conclusion, Mr. Jinarajadasa writes : For the first time 1present
all the evidence for Madame Blavatsky. Let those who desire to answer
the question : “ Did Madame Blavatsky Forge the Mahatma Letters,” read
first Mr. Richard Hodgson who, examining only one script, said “ Yes," and
on whose word she had been adjudged a charlatan and a trickster ; and.
then read this thesis of mine, with its answer : “no. ”
E X P A N SIO N IN E A S T AND W E S T
“ It is divine philosophy alone, the spiritual and psychic blending
of man with nature, which, by revealing the fundamental truths that lie
hidden under the objects of sense and perception, can promote a spirit of
unity and harmony in spite of the great diversities of conflicting creeds."
—Written by a Master of Wisdom, L u c ife r , Vol. I, p. 344.
“ I have pledged my word to help people on to T ru th while living
and will keep my word. . . . The day will come when posterity will
learn to know me better. . .
—H. P. B. in S c r a p b o o k I'
“ . . . all the world has been circled by the wave of H. P. Blavat-
sky’s thought.”
—Annie Besant, in L u c ife r , April. 1893.
1885
CONVENTION delegates departed, but Richard Hodgson
remained as the Founders’ guest. He “ examined ” H. P. B.
about the Coulomb letters and found her “ difficult,” because
she mistrusted him. He went into Madras to investi­
gate the Coulomb side of the case. But he called on the
Founders occasionally, when Col. Olcott gave him extracts
from his Diaries, and any other information he desired, for at
this time he anticipated that Hodgson’s report would be
favourable to H. P. B.
During the night of 8 January the Colonel was visited by
the Elder Brother, now the Master Djual Khool, who gave
him instructions on several matters. Mr. Leadbeater, who
was in the same room, heard the voices, and saw the light,
but not the form ; but he was privileged to see the Master
M. who visited H. P. B. and gave her the plan for The
Secret Doctrine, for which material had been accumulating.
218 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Before leaving, 14 January, for Burma with Mr. Lead-
beater, the President started the building of a sturdy wall
to prevent the encroachment of the river on the property,
which was extended and completed in 1907. He made the
first rough draft of a design for his proposed Temple of Reli­
gions. To objectors he said he could not see how such a
“ Temple of Religions, over whose portals is to be read
‘ There is no religion higher than Truth ’ ; and upon whose
walls are to hang the portraits of the Founders of all the great
faiths and many of the great philosophers, ancient and
modern, who have been the wisest teachers of the race,
could harm The Society. . . . In the plan of the Pantheon
was expressed the true character of The Society.” 1
King Thebaw III of Burma, having heard of Col. Olcott’s
work for Buddhism, invited him to his Court. On arrival in
Rangoon the Colonel’s rooms were crowded by the responsi­
ble elders of the Buddhist community. He lectured to the
Hindus on Hinduism, when some Burmese Christian rowdies
caused trouble ; and he spoke at the beautiful Shwe Dagon
Pagoda to Buddhists. He was catechised by some priests in
Buddhist theology—and passed satisfactorily ! On 28 January
he received a cable from Damodar to come at once as H. P. B.
was dangerously ill. Her constitution had been undermined by
hardships, by the long and close hours of work, which, added
to the strain of psychic phenomena, left her no reserve of
strength to withstand the fretting of this intolerable charge of
fraud and untruthfulness, which the Convention had refused
to allow her to combat.
The Colonel returned at once, and at Adyar found H.P.B.
in a state between life and death. Dr. Mary Scharlieb and
Dr. Hartmann said it was a miracle she was alive. One
night her Master had come and laid His hands upon her, and
brought her back from death. Her work, her trials, her
sacrifices, were not yet completed. Subba Row and Damodar
gloomily prophesied that The Society could not survive her
1Letters to Miss Arundale, 1885, printed in T h e T h eo so p h isl, 1932.
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 219
death—but Col. Olcott vowed that even if everyone should
resign he would keep on working and succeeding.
When he returned to Burma, Col. Olcott wrote, 27
February, to Miss Arundale, that owing to the uncertainty of
her health, H. P. B. “ has almost ceased to be a factor in the
movement, and an active correspondence is already in pro­
gress between the Oakleys, Hartmann, Lane-Fox and myself,
as to proposed changes in the management in case the appre­
hended calamity should occur.” After she had arrived in
Europe he wrote, 1 June, he doubted “ if she will ever be
able to do much henceforth. We must regard her as our
Pensioner and see that she is kindly cared for.” He was
convinced that “ by keeping H. P. B. out of sight for the
time," and fighting out the, to him, “ true issues of the crisis,”
he was able to “ snatch back public confidence, that her
personal vindication had been well-nigh accomplished in the
general vindication of our platform, without our having to go
into details as regard her character.” On 13 October he
wrote that in Calcutta and Benares there had been “ not one
word at either place about H. P. B.’s phenomena. This is
simply because everybody seems willing to put aside for the
moment the whole question of the genuineness of the pheno­
mena, and to view the sterling and undeniable merits of the
movement as a sociological phenomenon and evolutionary
factor.” He also explained that when H. P. B. said “ her
Master said so and so about a certain measure, I replied that
nothing could be debated in that Convention save upon its
merits, and whatever might be my personal loyalty to any
Teacher or Teachers, the T. S. as a body was absolutely in­
dependent of all authority except its own.” 1 H P. B.’s view,
was that she looked for the Teachers to express Their wishes
at all times and in all places.
St. G. Lane-Fox had returned to Adyar, and pressed
upon the President proposals he and Dr. Hartmann had pre­
pared for the formation of an Executive Committee, with
1Letters to Miss F. Arundale, 1885, T h e T h e o s o p h is l, 1932.
220 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
powers that would curtail the absolute authority of the Presi­
dent. (Mr. Leadbeater refused, to take any part in this plan.)
They had persuaded H. P. B. to endorse these proposals, an
endorsement she withdrew on receiving further explanations.
While the Colonel was talking this over with H. P. B. a note
appeared from her Teacher promising that upon H. P. B.’s
dying the link between The Theosophical Society and the
Masters shall stay unbroken.”
The proposals demanded that “ The President-Founder
should be asked to select an Executive Committee consisting
of five persons, . . . and to transfer to them all the super­
visory, financial, and executive affairs of the Society, to
appoint all officers—the President-Founder excepted—and to
ratify all documents concerning the Society.” The President
objected to this encroachment on “ my autocracy.” He felt
strongly that he and H. P. B. had borne all the burdens, and
he was not prepared to trust authority to newcomers who had
not yet proved themselves sufficiently, nor won the con­
fidence of the people in the many directions in which The
Society had now ramified. They thought financial diffi­
culties could be overcome by having The Theosophist and the
book business turned over, without compensation, to The
Society, for they considered it highly detrimental to its
interests that the magazine should be private property.
Probably this incident caused Col. Olcott to realise that the
President of The Society, if not possessed of a private
income, should have these two concerns as a possible
source of supply, and decided him to provide in his Will that
both should be under the personal ownership of the President
for the time being. Though he objected to the suggestions
made, nevertheless the President saw it was essential that he
should provide some form of coherent management to act in
all matters during his absences, and he made certain
provisions for committees, etc.
When H. P. B. was out of danger, the President went
again, 11 February, to Burma. In Rangoon he met a
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 221
Committee of English and Burmese Pali scholars to complete
the revision of the Burmese translation of his Buddhist
Catechism, of which several thousand copies were distributed
gratuitously. The Rangoon Theosophical Society was
organised, 27 February, after a lecture on “ Theosophy : no
Sect.” While the Colonel was absent, Damodar left Adyar,
23 February, to go to his Master’s ashrama in Tibet.
A telegram from Adyar advised the President to return
at once, instead of going on a tour in Bengal, as the Central
Committee had resigned, and some Branches threatened to
dissolve if H. P. B.’s case were not made good against the
missionaries, one of whom had issued a pamphlet called
" Theosophy Unveiled,” based on the Coulomb forgeries,
which was sent to Burma and sold at the door when the
Colonel lectured at the Town Hall in Rangoon. Before
leaving, he organised the Irrawaddy Theosophical Society,
for Europeans. Because of all he heard against King Thebaw,
he decided not to visit him at Mandalay..
On arrival at Headquarters on the 19th, the President
saw that matters were serious. Not only was H. P. B.
still distressed, but there was also dissatisfaction among
the residents. The President’s absence, and H. P. B.’s ill­
ness, and therefore her inability to bear the burden of
administration as she had done on previous occasions, had
culminated in divided authorities. Mr. Hume, who had been
visiting Adyar, wished to “ save” The Society by forcing the
Founders and all those who had asserted they had seen the
Masters, to resign as being frauds and accomplices ; to sell
Headquarters and to set up in its place a Scientifico-Philoso-
phico-Humanitarian Theosophical Society. Phenomena were
to be prohibited, and if any did occur they were not to be
talked about under pain of expulsion.
Under the direction of Hume, a small group consisting of
himself, Raghunath Row, T. Subba Row, and others, had
met, 14 March, and Resolved : (1) That the question of
phenomena be dissociated from The Theosophical Society.
222 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
(2) That the Report of the Committee on H. P. B. be not
circulated ; (3) that a circular be issued to all F. T. S. in
India discouraging all expectation of seeing phenomena, or
the Master, or of . . . receiving occult training ; and unless an
affirmative reply be received the member would be under­
stood to be actuated by such motives ; (4) that Raghunath
Row prepare a list of members for a Committee to take entire
charge of The Theosophical Society and give advice to the
Founders. These ideas were then embodied in “ Special
Orders,” in which it was pointed out that many Theosophists
were labouring under a wrong impression that blind belief in
phenomena was a pre-requisite for membership, and that
Theosophy was based upon such a belief. The Branches
were asked to report before 1 August whether all the mem­
bers were prepared to continue Theosophists, with the full
knowledge that the above idea was a misconception and
understood that the duty of each member was to consider all
men as brothers . . . to promulgate truth and morality . . .
to aid the revival of the Sanskrit language and the recovery
of its vast treasures of literature and science . . . Any­
one not prepared to continue membership on these lines was
to intimate the same to the Committee. None of these ideas
were followed up.
When H. P. B. heard that the missionaries were threat­
ening Gen. Morgan with a lawsuit for publicly describing
Mme Coulomb as a “ forger ” and a “ purloiner of letters,”
she was violently unhappy. But she would have borne
it all had she “ found loyal support.” On 21 March she
gave in her resignation as Corresponding Secretary. In spite
of her protests she “ was sent to Europe” to regain her
strength, but really because those at Adyar “ were not
equal to the trial when it came.”1 On 31 March, she sailed
away from her beloved India, never to return. With her went
Bavaji (Krishnaswami Iyengar, often called Dharbagiri Nath),
' W h y I d o n o t r e tu rn to In d ia , by H. P. B., written in 1890, T h e
T h e o s o p h is l, Jan. 1933.
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 223
who had been “ ordered ” to accompany her, and Dr. Hart­
mann and Miss Flynn to look after her. Rumours were at
once set afloat that she was, after all, a Russian spy, and that
as war was imminent in Afghanistan, against Russia, she had
therefore fled the country.
The President worked very hard in this year to present
an unbroken front to the world, at the cost of the sacrifice of
H. P. B. She was all for vindicating, in her own explosive
way, herself and therefore her mission to the world in the
name of the Masters. The President was subjected to severe
criticism and condemnation by many for the policy he
pursued. But he was convinced that his course was the
best, and would prepare the way for H. P. B.’s return.
The Council was unanimously of the opinion that Gen.
Morgan should defend the case brought by the missionaries
as he would probably win, and thus expose the worthless
character of the Coulombs. But after H. P. B. had gone out
of reach they withdrew the suit, even though the General
repeated his “ insults.”
Col. Olcott planned to change “ the government of The
Theosophical Society from its present autocracy of H. S. O.,
to a sort of Cabinet Government to act with and share the
responsibility of the President. . .” He issued a circular,
7 April, advising certain members that he had formed an
Executive Committee as an experimental measure, to be
ratified at the next Convention, and inviting them to become
members. This Committee, with himself, was to have entire
management of The Society’s affairs. Its proceedings were
to be kept secret, save with the consent of the majority pre­
sent. Members of the General Council were invited to attend,
if in Madras when the Committee was in session. It consisted
of R. Raghunath Row, P. Sreenavasa Row, S. Subramanier,
C. Ramiah, R. Parthasarathy Chetty, T. Subba Row,
A. J. Cooper-Oakley, and C. W. Leadbeater, Secretary. On
12 April this Committee met and “ Resolved that Mme
Blavatsky’s resignation be accepted, and that the President be
224 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
requested in the name of the Council to inform her of the
great regret with which they have learnt that she is compelled,
on account of her extreme ill-health, to relinquish her duties
as Corresponding Secretary. The Council further record their
high sense of the valuable services she has rendered to the
cause of Science and Philosophy. R. Raghunath Row,
Chairman.”
On the 17th the Committee drew up a notification which
was sent to all Branches, pointing out that though The
Society had been in existence ten years, it was not yet in a
position to support itself independently of the funds which
the Founders provided yearly from their own resources and
from The Theosophist. It was essential for the stability
■
of The Society that measures should be adopted giving
it legal capacity to receive, collect, hold and administer
Endowments. It was suggested that it should become a
corporate body. This Incorporation was discussed at Con­
vention and considered too complicated ; so it did not
actually take place till 1905.
After the betrayal of Headquarter’s hospitality by
Hodgson, the Executive Committee (or Council) issued a
notice, in May, that “ no person be allowed to stay at Head­
quarters without first obtaining the permission of the Council.”
Members of the Council and Branch officers were to be
allowed by the President to stay not more than one week
without special permission.
The Executive Committee operated harmoniously for
some months, then gradually faded out, “ for the practical
reason that nobody save myself had all the details in his
head,” said the President. Some of the Europeans had left
the country, and he was left to the autocracy “ which was my
abhorence, and I asked nothing better than that somebody
should come forward and take a share of the great responsi­
bility—for the administration of our difficult business.”
Though the situation seemed to grow worse as the
Coulomb crisis developed, yet it took a good deal to
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 225
discourage the President. As he was determined to put on a
brave face, he organised a lecture, 27 April, on the Policy of
the Society, at Pachaiappa’s Hall. The meeting was a success,
the audience receiving the President with cheers. As reports
came in from abroad he learned that most members were
standing firm.
The President went in May to organise Branches
in the Carnatic, and then for a short tour to Madura,
Trichinopoly and other southern towns, where he was
warmly received by demonstrative audiences, and where,
when opportunity occurred, he defended H. P. B. He was
keenly aware, as he studied the mode of the higher education
in the Colleges, that such education as the youths were
receiving put a “ blight of materialistic scepticism ” on every­
thing, and he combatted it where he could. He delighted in
addressing College students, calling to their minds the
past glories of their country, and urging them to revive India.
He left, 3 June, for Calcutta, for he fretted when not out in
the field and busy. Although it was such hot weather he con­
tinued his tour, speaking mainly on Theosophy, Mesmerism
(still doing a little healing) and Education. At Jubbulpore
some Padres challenged him to do a “ mesmeric miracle ”
under their own conditions. He gave explanations about The
Theosophical Society and its purpose and cleared up mis­
understandings. Where there was no Branch he organised one,
and, after continuous travelling and lecturing, reached Bombay
3 September, where he held a meeting of The Society.
At Poona, 7 September, the President addressed 1000
boys at the Fergusson College. After visiting Hyderabad
and other places he went to Gooty, one of the first Lodges to
put up a fine bungalow, in which he was accommodated.
That night he was visited by his Master and Ma-ji. He
travelled to Anantapur, to form a Branch, and back, in a bul­
lock cart. On 1 October he reached Madras where, after
a few days rest, he addressed a large audience on “ The
Perils of Indian Youth.”
15
226 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Even when on tour, the President was always busy with
what he called “ desk work." which meant answering the
constant stream of letters, and writing articles, for he was
now responsible for The Theosophbt, though Subba Row
edited it in his absence. By request of the proprietors
of the journal, C. W. Leadbeater became, in May, the
Manager, and Mr. T. V. Charlu,1 Assistant Manager and
Cashier.
When the President went on tour Mr. Leadbeater and
Mr. Cooper-Oakley were the only two Europeans at Adyar,
and they lived, each alone, with the strictest economy on
extremely monotonous food—as there had been complaints
at the cost of Headquarters’ upkeep, and the Treasury was
empty. Mr. Leadbeater occupied the octagonal bungalow,
where the Master K. H. came to him one day and recom­
mended efforts along certain lines, which he was pledged not
to divulge, save with the Master’s direct authorisation. He
would Himself watch the experiment and intervene in case of
danger. Mr. Leadbeater worked at the instructions faith­
fully, and, at the end of forty-two days, the Master helped
him to break through to the use of continuous consciousness,
astral and physical, whether the physical body was awake or
asleep. Then followed a year of hard training, mainly under
the direction of the Master Djual Khool, Who with great
patience directed and tested Mr. Leadbeater’s efforts. Often
Subba Row came to help with the instruction and
testing. For the rest of his life Mr. Leadbeater was a great
clairvoyant, putting his powers and immense experience
wholly at The Society’s service.
When H. P. B. left Adyar she travelled by way of Ceylon,
where she was too ill to go ashore, so the High Priest Suman-
gala and other priests went on board to express to her their
sincere sympathy. In a letter to the Colonel, 1I April,
posted at Aden, she described the discomforts of the voyage
and her own ill health in her usual graphic style, and
1Known as Ananda—his c h e l a - name.
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 227
continued : “ Master told me most plainly that if the Society
did not recall me before 1886, They would retire entirely
from any connection with it, signify so to the London Lodge
and other European and American Societies, and break every
connection with every member. T h ey will not counten­
ance ingratitude, Olcott, however guilty I may appear in the
eyes of fools or even wise men for that matter. . . . I am the
only one, for the present, in full possession of their doctrines
and ready to give out as much as I can . . .” In Italy
H. P. B. took rooms at Torre del Greco for about three
months. From her letters to Mrs. Sinnett it is easy to realise
how she recognised all the mistakes she and others had
made. She spared neither herself nor them, putting her
finger with exactitude upon causes and effects, and upon who
was responsible for the causes. She said that in those days
of extreme illness in Adyar, she was shown things as they
were—who was wrong, who right, and the future also.
And when the Master had shown her all, and asked her
if still she was willing to go on, she said “ Yes,” for
the sake of the few.
H. P. B. decided to go to Wurzburg, near Munich,
Germany. When settled there in August, her determination
to get something done for The Society flamed up again. She
suggested there should be two more Presidents, one in
America, one in Europe, and Sinnett to be the chief over all
the European Societies (Lodges). She felt that Col. Olcott’s
attitude was really a half-admission that she had been guilty
at times of bogus phenomena, and, if she were a fraud, then,
since he had stood by her, he must be one also. She was
working at The Secret Doctrine and persuading anyone who
would to help her. Evidently Mr. Sinnett suggested she
should sell it for a consideration. This she emphatically
refused to do. She would not even bind herself to have
subscribers for it. About October, Countess Constance
Wachtmeister felt urged to go to H. P. B., who told her she
had been sent to help with The Secret Doctrine. The Countess
228 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
left on record 1 how H. P. B. spent her days in strenuous
and unremitting labour at her desk from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m.
She rarely went out. Though she wrote 7 he Secret Doctrine
all by hand, very little of the original MSS. in her handwrit­
ing remains. The first manuscript copy sent to Adyar for
Subba Row is the hand-written copy by the Countess
Wachtmeister and others, in a book purchased in Wurzburg.
By October opinion was strong in the Council that re­
buttal of charges for which H. P. B. still agitated would only
stir up controversy again. That Col. Olcott and others
ignored the attacks, she regarded as a betrayal by her friends.
Subba Row declared that “ if H. P. B. kept up this agitation
(by pamphlets, correspondence and personal talk, and by
such rows as the present . . .), he should not only
resign from The Theosophical Society, but get all with whom
he had any influence to do likewise.” "
*
The President began in November to enlarge the
Hall by extending the verandah in front, taking in the porte-
cochere, and filling in the spaces between the outer pillars
with a clever lattice-work of tiles. At the opening of Con­
vention, 27 December, it was ready and beautifully decorated.
This Hall took the place of the proposed Pantheon, or
Temple of Religions. In four arched spaces on the inner
wall were placed figures of Shri Krishna, Gautama the
Buddha, Jesus Christ and Zoroaster. Various mystical em­
blems were inscribed in relief on the walls, and also The
Society’s motto : There is no Religion higher than Truth.
On the 26th the President asked the delegates to choose
among themselves a Finance Committee to review The
Society’s accounts of the past ten years. He put forward
plans for a Permanent Fund for the Library and Picture
Gallery, which were at once generously subscribed to (the
Gallery did not come into existence). The plans for the
Library were submitted and approved. Votes of confidence
1R e m i n i s c e n c e s o f H . P . B la v a t s k y , 1893.
2H. S. 0 . to H. P. B., 21 October; see T h e T h eo so p h isl, Jan. 1933.
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 229
in H. P. B. and the President were adopted. The Hall in
Madras, at the Anniversary public meeting, 28 December,
was crowded, and G. N. Chakravarti gave “ the speech of
the evening."
In the •President-Founder’s address he reviewed the
previous ten years. He said practically nothing as to
H. P. B.’s part in those ten years of wonderful unfoldment.
He expressed regret at her absence, and said she was work­
ing at The Secret Doctrine. 121 Branches had been chartered,
the greatest increase being in 1883. Of these 4 were dor­
mant, leaving 117 active Branches : U. S. America, 6 ; India,
Burma and Ceylon, 106 ; England, Scotland, France, Ger­
many, Australia (Toowoomba), Greece, Holland, Russia and
West Indies, one each.
Convention resolved : That in the event of the health of
Mme Blavatsky being sufficiently restored, she be requested
to resume the office she has relinquished. . . . And as the
charges against her had not been proven their affection and
respect for her continued unabated. The Convention ex­
pressed its great sorrow that the President-Founder wished
to retire into private life as some had questioned his com­
petency for his present duty, and requested him to continue
his invaluable services to The Society to the last.
The Rules were revised and the Objects stated very
much as they are at present. The Fellows were classed as
Corresponding, Honorary and Active. There was no further
mention that the First Section were “ Initiates in Esoteric
Science and Philosophy,” or that They instructed the Presi­
dent-Founder how best to regulate The Society’s affairs.
The Society was no longer bearing open witness to the world
that the Masters guided and directed it. The ceremony of
initiation was dropped out, as giving rise to misunderstanding
on the part of the public, and the form of obligation being re­
pugnant to many. The signs and passwords were retained.
In England, Mr. Sinnett was elected President of the
London Lodge, and Bertram Keightley Secretary. Information
230 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
about the missionary attack was reaching Britain, and
having its effect in a certain number of resignations. The
sky seemed very clouded, but the Lodge continued its work
and took a room on the first floor, 15 York Street, Covent
Garden, to have a place for the permanent use of its members
and to collect a library. Open meetings were held at Queen
Anne Mansions, St. James’ Park, where Mohini sometimes
spoke, and his lectures were greatly appreciated. Sinnett
issued a pamphlet called “ The Occult World Phenomena
and the Society for Psychical Research.” It provoked sharp
replies from Hodgson. Theosophists in general accepted
H. P. B.’s assurance that the letters were partly forgeries, and
laughed at Hodgson’s hypothesis of her unlimited skill in
organising conjuring devices. The leaders of the S. P. R.
accepted Hodgson’s views as final. Mr. Sinnett wrote to
Light, forcibly expressing feelings of sympathy towards
Madame Blavatsky and the members’ unabated confidence in
her bona fides. He took exception to the way the S. P. R.
had issued the blackest charges against her, charges which
rested upon evidence that to those who knew her and her
undoubted powers, mental and psychical, were “ grotesquely
untenable.” He added prophetically : “ not until she is lost to
us for ever will the world fully realise what manner of person
she was.” Mr. Sinnett began to write a book on her life,
called Incidents in the Life o f Madame Blavatsky. She was
eager that he should do something in her defence. He
thought a practical course to take was to publish her
Memoirs. When the book appeared, her Russian relatives
were deeply offended at the way she spoke of British rule in
India—emphasising its value and warning Indians of the folly
of wishing to exchange it for Russian dominance. H. P. B.
was always very sensitive about implicating her family in
her statements, or causing them annoyance or embarrass­
ment, and these Memoirs worried her greatly.
During the year the American Board of Control had
improved the organisation of the Branches and promoted the
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 231
movement in the United States. As a Psychical Research
Society had been formed in America, the Board authorised
Prof. Coues to watch its work and to explain any facts esta­
blished “ according to the doctrines and upon the principles
of psychic science, of which The Theosophical Society is
the custodian in the United States.”
News from France was encouraging. The President’s
book on Theosophy was translated into French, and articles
on Theosophy by first-class writers had been admitted into
some of the leading magazines. Lady Caithness had pre­
pared a pamphlet made up of translated extracts from
Sinnett’s Esoteric Buddhism. She thought it would be a good
thing if the Masters would allow Their portraits to be in
every large centre to show sometimes to members.1
From other countries where Branches existed came
reports of slow but sure growth.
There were some important publications during the year,
chief among them being Light on the Path by Mabel Collins
(Mrs. Kenningale Cook, a well-known medium and F. T. S.).2
This book has become one of the great classics of The
Society. Other publications were : The Idyll o f the White
Lotus, by Mabel Collins, the tragic story of a past life of the
Master Hilarion ; Theosophy, Relgion and Occult Science, being
eleven lectures by Col. Olcott; The Purpose o f Theosophy, by
Mrs. Sinnett, a very much needed manual ; Karma, a Theo­
sophical novel, by A. P. Sinnett ; La Science Occulte, by
Louis Dramard.
1886
Feeling suddenly inspired to do so the President staked
out the ground for the Library and turned the first sod, 1
January; but it was not until the 16th at noon that an
'* auspicious ” hour occurred to start digging the trenches for
1Lady Caithness to H. P. B., May 1885.
2 See p. 52.
232 A -SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
the foundations, after due Hindu ceremonial had been per­
formed.
On the 27th the President and Mr. Leadbeater sailed for
Ceylon, where the former had promised to make a lecturing
tour on behalf of the Buddhist Educational Fund. The
Colombo Buddhists had consulted with the Colonel about
having a Buddhist flag, one that could be adopted by all Bud­
dhist nations. They hit upon the happy idea of blending in
the flag the six colours alleged to have existed in the aura of
the Lord Buddha. On Wesak Day, at full moon, 17 May,
this flag was hoisted for the first time.
Col. Olcott, with Mr. Leadbeater, William de Abrew,
H. Dharmapala, and the veteran servant “ Bob,” started out
in his travelling cart for Negombo, the first of the fourteen
places they intended to visit. The Colonel fell ill of a
fever, so Mr. Leadbeater took his place and “ gave great
satisfaction.” The Colonel recovered, took up his work,
and from about 28 February until 8 April was busy travel­
ling, often all night, lecturing, collecting funds and selling
Catechisms.
When the Colonel returned to Madras he left Mr. Lead­
beater as his representative in Ceylon to supervise the
Buddhist secular work. At Adyar he found Subba Row had
quite changed towards H. P. B., and had become strongly
opposed to her recall. Letters were coming from her “ full
of plucky defiance of her enemies and accusers.”
In May Col. Olcott received a letter from Tookaram
Tatya, in which he wondered what had become of Damodar.
In this was a letter from the Master K. H., in His own script,
giving the answer to Tookaram’s plaint. Damodar, said the
Master, was alive and safe ; he had failed to pass through
the ordeal of Initiation owing to physical weakness but
would ultimately succeed. There were stern reminders of
how Damodar’s health had suffered because of his over zeal ;
and the time had come for them all to act as though they
really did believe in Karma. In July H. P. B. wrote to
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 233
Col. Olcott telling him he ought to form an inner occult
group, for without the Mahatmas and the occult element
he would not have such devoted fellows as were Nobindra-
nath, Damodar and others ; but he never formed any such
group.
The President’s chief preoccupation during the summer
months was the erection of the Library. Mr. E. B. Havell,
Superintendent of the Madras School of Art, consulted with
him about the building and decorations, and gave the Presi­
dent the benefit of his expert knowledge. The room which
Coulomb had built for H. P. B. leaked so badly that it had
to be practically rebuilt to make it habitable. The Colonel
had occupied it when H. P. B. left, and used it till he passed
away. The room was divided into two—a tiny room for
sleeping in and a larger one for an office. These rooms
Dr. Besant also occupied till she left her body. Dr. Arundale
has made them into one large office for his private use.
On 7 August part of the Library was sufficiently finished
for the President to carry in the first book, a copy of Isis
Unoeiled, and place it in position. He began to search the
bookshops for rare and valuable second-hand volumes, and
funds and books began to come in. When Cooper-Oakley
returned from Ootacamund he started to catalogue the
Library, the President assisting, who decided to call “ the
European Collection : Adyar Library—Western Section ;
the Oriental portion—“ Eastern Section.” The President
intended when the Library was completed to give it into the
charge “ of a group of Indian scholars and gentlemen,”
selected as a Board of Directors.
The Master visited the President and gave him an in­
sight into events and people by which, though some things
saddened him, he was forewarned and helped. Sometimes
Subba Row would come and talk to him of Philosophy and
Science “ with wonderful power.’
On 17 October a Council meeting was held to decide
upon investment of The Society’s capital and the assignment
234 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
by H.P.B. of whatever interests she had in Adyar property to
Col. Olcott. as President. A visit to Cuddapah in November
broke into the President’s usual “ desk work ” and building
activities. He lectured to a dense crowd and formed a
Branch. Covention being near at hand, Mr. Leadbeater arrived
from Ceylon, after a most troublesome journey, and by the
24th 137 delegates were present at the Eleventh Anniversary.
Each morning T. Subba Row gave erudite lectures on
the Gita, published as The Philosophy o f the Bhagavad-Gita.
P. Sreenivasa Row lectured in the evenings on the Hindu
Shastras. The opening of the Library was impressive, bless­
ings upon it being invoked by Hindu, Parsi, Buddhist and
Mohammedan priests. In his speech the President said the
Library was a long cherished dream fulfilled. The object of
it was “ to revive Oriental literature.” He dedicated the
Library “ to the service of mankind,” and declared it duly
opened. In his Annual Address, the President said that
the most important event of the last year was “ the gradual
recovery of external prestige and restoration of internal con­
fidence.” He traced the growth of the administrative methods
of The Society and said : “ The fundamental principle of The
Society being to encourage self-reform and self-evolution
any theory of supervision over, or restraint of the indivi­
dual would be repugnant to that theory, and tend to debase
our body to the level of a mere sect.” There was perfect
liberty outside The Society for a person to baptise his theory
as he chose, but “ our Society has the right to forbid every
person holding its diploma, to pretend that it is in the smallest
degree responsible for his or her private views upon any
subject whatever.” He reported that there were now 132
Branches—India still leading. Queenstown, S. Africa, Dublin
and Haiti had had charters to form Branches. Col. Olcott
never “ closed ” Conventions in these early days ; he adjourn­
ed them sine die.
Meanwhile, in Europe, H. P. B. continued to give all
her time to the writing of The Secret Doctrine. A tempting
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 235
offer came from a Russian paper of a large yearly salary if
she would write for it. But H. P. B. was not willing to deflect
her thought from the direction of the current of her main
work, and with her sick and worn out body and worried
mind it was difficult to be continually changing. Countess
Wachtmeister and others wished her to go to England, but she
decided to go to Ostend, and set out with Miss Kislingbury
and the precious Secret Doctrine. At Cologne, the Gebhards
met her and persuaded H. P. B. to stay awhile with them.
She fell one day on the slippery parquet floor and hurt
her leg, so it was about July before she was able to go on
to Ostend. There the Countess joined her again, and The
Secret Doctrine went forward as rapidly as H. P. B.’s health
allowed.
To all questions of “ Why phenomena at all ? ” which
the Countess put to her at this time, H. P. B. gave the same
answer. Had she been simply a teacher of philosophy, no
one would have listened. Education was at a much lower
level then, freedom of thought was rare. A display of the
marvellous was needed to awaken interest. “ So phenomena
started the Society,” and by now it had served its purpose.
During the winter she had much correspondence about the
private and complicated parts that individuals played in The
Society. Personalities did not readily submit to the ideals
of Theosophy ; nor had those ideals yet been fully stated.
So one character after another comes and goes in the pages
of her letters. Among them was V. S. Solovioff, professing
devotion at first and demanding to be a “ chela,” then
turning against her, partly because he heard her frank
opinion of himself. He sought out old stories and “ lies,” as
H. P. B. scornfully called them, of her past, and made
mischief.
H. P. B. explained that in writing The Secret Doctrine,
“ I make what I can only describe as a sort of vacuum in the
air before me, and fix my sight and my will upon it, and soon
scene after scene passes before me like the successive
236 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
pictures of a diorama, or, if I need a reference or information
from some book, I fix my mind intently, and the astral
counterpart of the book appears, and from it I take what I
need . . She had only a handful of books with her,
but The Secret Doctrine overflows with references. Sometimes
she needed verification of these and managed to gain it
with a “ frequency and appositeness that took it quite out of
the region of mere coincidence.” She submitted her MSS. to
various people for comment, and when the first part was
completed, a copy, written by hand, was despatched to Adyar
for Subba Row to revise—as had been arranged. But he
refused to have anything to do with it. He had always
strongly objected to the revelation of Occultism given out
so freely by H. P. B., especially to the West, where it was
so likely to be misunderstood. He now objected to her
sevenfold classification of the principles of man’s constitu­
tion, asserting that there are but four. Both were right;
H. P. B. examining the subject from one point of view,
Subba Row from another. Finding this draft of her book
not acceptable, H. P. B. patiently set to work to rewrite it.
In England there had been much activity and pro­
mise of development ; now, owing to the Coulomb attack
and the S. P. R. Report, it was difficult to do anything.
Mr. Sinnett, always sensitive to social opinion and averse to
propaganda, yet the leading figure in England, felt he could
do no more than carry on quietly. Writing to Mr. Leadbeater,
he thought it hard that Mme Blavatsky should be allowed
to be called an imposter, forger and swindler without an
effort being made by The Society to defend her. But there
was a growing number who wanted to develop The
Society, and who were not affected by all this, and, knowing
H. P. B., were eager to learn more of what she could teach.
In America, Judge was re-organising the work of the
Branch in New York and kept its original name the “ Aryan
Theosophical Society of New York.” This Branch began to
hold public meetings which were well attended, and had a
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 237
good Library. Judge started The Path, for which he persuaded
H. P. B. to write sometimes. He and Prof. Coues did not
find themselves compatible, so there were difficulties. There
was a difference of opinion between them as to whether the
Board appointed by the President-Founder should remain in
existence. Judge thought that the Board should be elected
annually by the delegates of Branches, of which there were
now nine. In June the Executive Council recommended
American Branches to federalise into the form of a Section of
the General Council. H. P. B., as we have seen, felt she had
certain executive rights, so had cabled to Judge to abolish
the Board and make a central head. She wrote to him in
July : “ I know that you could do a lot of good in India. Take
my place Judge. You will make up in devotion what you
lack in occult knowlege. I will give you my share of The
Theosophist . . . Replace me at Adyar . . . Even if I am
dead you can always get 10% from The Secret Doctrine and
The Theosophist." Judge thought he would accept this offer,
though he quite understood she did not offer him “ succession.”
There was no reason why he should stay longer in America.
He wanted to strike “ heavy blows for Truth and the Cause
in its present real home, my real home—India.”
At a Convention held at Cincinnati in October, the
Board of Control was abolished, and the management vested
in an American General Council. Judge was elected per­
manent General Secretary and Treasurer, the sole official of
the American Section of the General Council of The Theo-
sophical Society. This was the first time the word Section
was used to denote a federation of Branches, and the first
time the title of General Secretary was used for the chief
officer of a federated territory, who was described as
being the “ official channel of communication with the
Adyar Headquarters.” This distinction has been accorded
to all General Secretaries ever since. Judge was very
keen* that “ the Cause ” should go ahead and felt he was
the best person to help it to do so. To any attack from
238 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
within or without he said, “ our best answer is to publish
our objects and principles.”
1887
In the early Spring, H. P. B. said, she had had a long
talk with her Master. As a result she had drawn two con­
clusions : (1) That the transplanting of Theosophy to Euro­
pean soil was not good for The Theosophical Society ; and
that phenomena had been ruinous to her and to The Society.
There would have been greater success had phenomena been
kept in the background. (2) Europe and America were
under probation. Either she had to return to India to die, or
from a nucleus of true Theosophists, “ a school of my own
. . . with as many mystics as I can get to teach them.” She
was to be within easy reach of London.
H.P.B. was not able to carry out the Master’s instructions
immediately, as she developed kidney trouble and grew too
drowsy to work. The Countess finally sent for Dr. Ashton
Ellis, a London member, to look after her. No treatment he
could devise seemed to be of any avail. H. P. B. said she
was glad to die and thought the Master would let her be free
at last. The Countess was to take care of The Secret Doctrine
MSS., and see that they were sent safely to Col. Olcott. One
night, tired out, the Countess fell asleep. When she awoke
in the early morning H. P. B. was looking at her “ calmly
with her clear grey eyes.” She told the Countess that her
Master had come and given her the choice “ that I might die
and be free if 1 would, or might live and finish the Secret
Doctrine.” She accepted the sacrifice, thinking of the few she
might teach, and The Society in general to which she had
already given her “ heart’s blood.”
Dr. A. Keightley (uncle) and Bertram Keightley (nep­
hew) came bearing a warm and pressing invitation to
H. P. B. to go to London, where she would be taken care
of. Besides, there were six members who were profoundly
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 239
dissatisfied with conditions in The Society in England, and had
concluded that only the presence of H. P. B. could aid them
in initiating active and wisely directed work. She was taken
over 1 May and sheltered at Maycot, Upper Norwood, the
home of Mabel Collins, where, two hours after her arrival,
she had out her writing materials and was hard at work
again. Very soon the group around her considered it would
be an advantage to form a new Lodge, to be called “ The
Blavatsky Lodge of The Theosophical Society.” The in­
augural meeting was held on 19 May in H. P. B.’s small
rooms at Maycot. The first President was G. B. Finch.
H. P. B. was one of the founding members, and the early
activities of the Lodge were carried out under her guidance
and instruction.
In pursuance of the policy of “ active work,” the Lodge
decided to publish a magazine, daringly called Lucifer, the
first number of which appeared 15 September. It was re­
solved to form a Theosophical Publishing Company, to be
legally registered with a capital of £ 1500, which would enable
them not only to publish the magazine, but also The Secret
Doctrine. The co-editors of Lucifer were H. P. B. and Mabel
Collins, with Bertram Keightley as assistant. The chief
burden of editorial work fell upon H. P. B. The magazine was
designed to bring light to “ the hidden things of darkness” ;
to show “ in their true aspect and original meaning things and
names, men and their doings and customs ; it is finally to
fight prejudice, hypocrisy and shams in every nation, in
every class of Society, as in every department of life.”
H. P. B. wrote erudite articles, especially some on “ The
Esoteric character of the Gospels.” She wrote an Open
Letter to the Archbishop of Canterbury, explaining the
nature of Theosophy and The Theosophical Society : “ Theo­
sophy is not a religion, but a philosophy at once religious and
scientific ; . . . and the chief work, so far, of The Theo­
sophical Society has been to revive in each religion its own
animating spirit, by encouraging and helping enquiry into the
2 4 0 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
true significance of its doctrines and observances. Theo-
sophists know that the deeper one penetrates into the mean­
ing of the dogmas and ceremonies of all religions, the greater
becomes their apparent underlying similarity, until finally a
perception of their fundamental unity is reached. 1 his
common ground is no other than Theosophy—the Secret
Doctrine of all ages ; which, diluted and disguised to suit
the capacity of the multitude, and the requirements of the
time, has formed the living kernel of all religions . . . it
is precisely because Theosophy is not a religion nor can for
the multitude supply the place of a religion, that the
success of The Society has been so great, not merely as
regards its growing membership and extending influence,
but also in respect to the performance of the work it has
undertaken—the revival of spirituality in religion, and the
sentiment of BROTHERHOOD among men.” 1 This Open
Letter H. P. B. reprinted, and circulated about 15,000
copies.
In another place H. P. B. wrote : “ It is well known that
the first rule of The Society is to carry out the object of form­
ing the nucleus of a universal brotherhood. The practical
working of this rule was explained by Those who laid it down,
to the following effect :
" He who does not practise altruism; he who is not
prepared to share his last morsel with a weaker or poorer
than himself; He who neglects to help his brother man,
of whatever race, nation, or creed, whenever and wherever
he meets suffering, and who turns a deaf ear to the cry of
human misery ; he who hears an innocent person slandered,
whether a brother Theosophist or not, and does not under­
take his defence as he would undertake his own—is no
Theosophist.
Mabel Collins contributed to Lucifer those “ Comments ”
on Light on the Path which are so valuable, and also wrote
interesting occult stories. A. P. Sinnett, Archibald Keightley,
1Lucifer, Dec., 1887.
2 Ibid. Nov., 1887.
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 241
St. George Lane-Fox, Gerald Massey (poet, brother of C. C.
Massey), Thos. B. Harbottle, and Countess Wachtmeister all
wrote for the magazine. By the end of the year its success
was assured.
Finding Maycot too small and too far from the centre, the
Keightleys, H. P. B., Countess Wachtmeister and others took
a large house, 17 Lansdowne Road, where the work could be
more easily carried on. H. P. B. moved in early in October and
was soon surrounded by people attracted by her knowledge
and her powerful personality. Her rooms were on the ground
floor—a small bedroom leading into a large writing room,
where furniture was so arranged around her that she could
reach her books and papers without difficulty. This room led
again into the dining-room, so that she had ample space for
exercise when she felt inclined to walk about; but usually
she worked at her desk from 6-30 a.m. to 7 p.m. The
Keightleys laboured at The Secret Doctrine with her, and
diligently typed out all the MSS. G. R. S. Mead, a young
man of twenty-four, became her private Secretary and also
worked on The Secret Doctrine. Hardly had they settled in
when visitors became so numerous that H. P. B. found it
advisable to have a special visiting day and chose Saturday,
when people came from 2 p.m. till 11 or 12 at night, and she
answered questions with unvarying patience. There were
also members and friends every evening from 7 p.m., often
until late into the night.
The Blavatsky Lodge also moved to Lansdowne Road,
and was faced with objections from members to its policy to
spread “ Theosophical teaching and Brotherhood by the in­
dividual and collective work of its members.’’ Anyone
wishing to join the Lodge was asked “ to sign an undertaking
on election to carry out to the best of his ability the special
object of the Lodge.” This determination to carry on public
propaganda caused Finch and others to resign office, and
membership of The Society. Some preferred the Lon­
don Lodge, under Mr. Sinnett, which continued to meet
16
242 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
and discuss Theosophical subjects, but held no open
meetings.
The President-Founder left Adyar, 21 January, for Ceylon,
where he immediately went on tour. Finding the need
very great among the Buddhists for more popular information
regarding the merits of their own religion, he compiled an epi­
tome of morals which he called The Golden Rules o f Buddhism.
He lectured not only to adults but to youths also, and visited
schools. When in Colombo, the priest Megituwatte furiously-
attacked the Colombo Theosophical Society for not starting
more schools “ as promised.” He attacked the Colonel
and almost persuaded the High Priest Sumangala against
him. Regarding all this as in the nature of a trap, Col. Olcott
slipped away to Bombay. He lectured at the Framji Cowasji
Hall on “ Can we talk with the Dead ?” Then he went
on to visit his old friend Harisinghi at Bhavanagar. Here
E. T. Sturdy joined him and was initiated, as, though a mem­
ber, he had not received the signs and passwords. After a
trip to Junaghad, the Colonel returned to Bhavanagar, whence
he shipped handsome carved doors for the Adyar Library,
presented by Prince Harisinghji.
Mr. Sturdy went to Madras to join Mr. Leadbeater and
both went to Ceylon to clear up troubles that had occurred,
though Sturdy soon returned to Adyar. Mr. Leadbeater
stayed on to labour in the educational field, starting what is
now the Ananda College, and until 1889 spent most of his
time in Ceylon.
The President spent a quiet three weeks with Prince
Harisinghji. The Raja of Limbdi invited him to lecture at
his palace. At Baroda, he lectured to the College students,
and met State notables who gathered to talk with him and to
witness his mesmeric experiments upon his secretary,
Doraswamy. Although the hot season had set in, the Pre­
sident, with his usual disregard of discomfort, went on a
long tour, starting from Surat, where, as the result of his
address to a great audience, he formed a Branch. Then,
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 243
after a short time in Bombay, he left on 27 April for Nagpur
and went on up through the hot North as far as Lahore, and
carried on pluckily though sometimes quite ill. In some towns
Branches needed reviving, others celebrated anniversaries.
He went up out of the heat to cool and bracing Darjiling, and
then back to hot and steamy Calcutta, staying on the way at
Siliguri, where he not only lodged at the station, but lectured
to a good audience on the platform.
At Calcutta, he broke new ground by speaking on
* Social Reform on Aryan Lines.” Then he went on
to Chittagong, where a Branch was organised. From
there he set off by rowing-boat to Pahartali, an island
village 16 miles distant, where the inhabitants were all
Buddhists, the Maghs, and formed the Mahamuni (Great
Saint) Branch. To get to Noakhalli he drove in an open
spring-cart through heavy rain, then all night in a common
springless ox-cart, so short that his legs stuck out as far
as the knees ; then he took a twenty-eight hour journey
up the river in a heavy country-boat. He deserved to be
garlanded and greeted on his arrival as “ Col. Olcott, the
friend of the Aryan religion.” After this strenuous tour he
returned to Calcutta tired and over-strained. He arrived at
Adyar 10 October.
The President admitted that on this tour he missed
H. P. B. He remembered how they had been together and
had shared their first Indian experiences, and dreamed “dreams
for the revival of Eastern learning and religion.” They had
borne so much together, and had faced and overcome
so many trials. Though in his Old Diary Leaves the
President says those things of H. P. B. which he hoped
would prevent any tendency to set her up as infallible, yet he
cherished for her a great friendship. He often disagreed
with her, and she with him. Those who knew them both
intimately have left on record their admiration for his patient
and uncomplaining endurance of her worst and most volcanic
outbursts. He knew how much she had done for him, and
244 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
that he and others had learnt everything from her to begin
with. Because she unlocked doors to great knowledge, he
often called her “ Latchkey ” in the earlier years.
The President found Mr. A. Fullerton, at Adyar. He
had come from America to help. But he left after nine
days, for he felt he could not bear this quiet place.
Mr. Cooper-Oakley, who was editing The Theosophisl during
the President’s absence, made so much disturbance and had
so much bitterness against H. P. B. for real and fancied
reasons, that the President called in the Inspector General of
Police to inform himself fully about everything concerning
The Society. Since H.P.B. did not wish to be responsible
for two journals, and her return was unlikely, the President
took over the legal responsibility as publisher of The Theo-
sophist.
Col. Olcott secured an interview with the Governor
of Madras, Lord Connemara, to discuss with him The
Society and H. P. B.’s phenomena. At a Government
House party he met the Hon. George N. Curzon, who called
next day and talked Theosophy with him and who, when he
returned to India as Viceroy, continued to be friendly.
On 23 December, the rest of the Library being ready,
the President began to transfer the books to it, carrying in
Isis Unveiled first. His collection of books consisted of his own,
H. P. B.’s, and Mr. Leadbeater’s personal libraries, and with,
these as a beginning he added to them as rapidly as
possible. The Twelfth Anniversary was not so large as.
usual, only 67 delegates were present ; a number of leading
members of The Society were at the National Congress,
which held its meetings at the same time in Madras. In his
Annual Address the President referred to his long tour and
noted that out of 104 lectures, “ Theosophy ” had been asked
for 21 times. He had the habit of letting the audience choose
the title of his lecture. Among the Officers of the General
Council of this year were T. V. Charlu, A. J. Cooper-Oakley
and C. W. Leadbeater as Secretaries—the latter was also-
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 245
•on the Executive Committee ; Bertram Keightley, assistant
Treasurer ; and W. Q. Judge, General Secretary of the
American Section. The General Council consisted of Presi­
dents of Branches ex-officio, and there were 48 more as
additional non-official members, 10 of whom were in
other countries. According to the Rules, the officers of
The Society were to be elected annually, “ but Colonel
H. S. Olcott and Madame H. P. Blavatsky, both founders—
shall hold their offices of President and Corresponding
Secretary for life.”
In France there was increasing activity. The Isis Branch
was formed, of which Louis Dramard, the brilliant young
“ socialist republican,” was President. In order to spread
the truths of Theosophy among all classes the Isis Lodge
made its entrance fees as low as possible. The first
French magazine Le Lotus, was started and directed by
F. K. Gaboriau, a young and enthusiastic protege of H. P. B.
Austria formed its first Branch at Vienna, the formation
of which had been preceded by the establishment of an
extensive Library of books on Occultism and Theosophy.
The members proposed that there should be a European
Convention of The Theosophical Society the following year
In Bayreuth, during the Wagner festival, with the intention of
becoming personally acquainted with each other and ex­
changing views. A Charter had been sent to Tokyo, Japan.
In America The Society was expanding. H. P. B. wrote for
The Path, as did Mohini Chatterji, who had been travelling and
lecturing in the States, and “ Jasper Niemand ’’ but most
of the articles were by Mr. Judge, under various names.
From the beginning of this year The Path was the exclusive
property and under the sole management of Judge, the
partnership with A. Gebhard having been severed.
In Ceylon the Wesak Festival which had become a
Government Holiday, was celebrated with unprecedented
splendour and joy by the Buddhists. “ It seemed as if
1Mrs. Julia ver Planck, afterwards Mrs. Archibald Keightley.
246 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
the work of The Society would bring about a thorough revival
of the Buddhist religion over the whole Island."
1888
The long strenuous tour of 1887, in the extreme heat, had
so told upon the President’s health that he decided to go to
Ootacamund to recuperate, leaving Mr. Cooper-Oakley as
editor of The Theosophist. He held an Executive Council, 4
March, at which it was decided to elect Countess Wacht-
meister as an additional Secretary to The Theosophical
Society, Western Division, or Section. She received many
letters from people deploring their inability to purchase Theo­
sophical literature, so she formed a library of the Theosophi­
cal Society’s books, and others which would tend “ to elevate,
educate or develop the mind to prepare it for the reception of
Theosophical teaching.” In July she appealed for books and
funds, and set up and took charge of a library at 7, Duke
St., Adelphi, W . C., the publishing offices of Lucifer.
While in Ootacamund, from early March till the end of
May, the President bought a plot of land on which he after­
wards erected a bungalow—Gulistan (the place of roses)—to
be used for The Society’s workers who needed a rest and
change from the heat of Madras, for which purpose it is
still used.
His health being restored, the President left Ooty 31
May, visited Coimbatore, where he spoke on “ What can
India teach us ? ” and in three other towns formed Branches.
The Council learnt that a considerable property had been
bequeathed to The Society by a devoted member, Mr. C. H.
Hartmann, Toowoomba, Queensland, Australia ; but it was
not ready to accept this at once as there seemed to be diffi­
culties, so enquiries were set on foot. To his great regret
the President received the resignation of T. Subba Row. It
was brought about by the appeal in The Path, (U. S. A.)
February, by a number of American members to the
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 247
“ Respected Chief,” H. P. B., to bring out The Secret Doctrine
without further delay. They heard she had been asked to
withdraw it from publication lest it be “ attacked or ridiculed
by some East Indian pandits and that it was not wise to
antagonise these Indian gentlemen.” These remarks were
objected to by N. D. Khandalavala, Tookaram Tatya,
K. M. Shroff and others, who declared that there were no
objections in India to the publication of the mysteries, but
suggestions had been made with a view to enhance the value
of the book by making it more exact in the allusions to
Hindu literature . . . Had H. P. B. been in India this
great work would long since have appeared, but distance
from Europe made difficult the revision originally proposed.
Mr. Judge had for some years complained that those in
charge at Adyar did not pay sufficient attention to business,
especially during the President’s long absences, though mail
was forwarded to him as he travelled about. When H. P. B.
was at Adyar she had dealt with routine work, by virtue of
her authority as Corresponding Secretary. The President
only very reluctantly deputed his authority to anyone. He
did not like the “ Executive Council ” which had been
formed in 1884, with which he shared that authority, and was
considerably relieved when this was altered at the end of
this year.
When H. P. B. settled in England and found how keen
was the interest in Theosophy, and there were zealous
members ready to help her, she grew impatient at the delays
at Adyar. She wished to have some more authoritative
body in the West, and suggested the formation of a “ Western
Theosophical Society,” a sort of Federation, with Head­
quarters at 17 Lansdowne Road, and with herself as head.
Officers were available—in Miss F. Arundale who had been
appointed in 1884 by the President as an Assistant Treasurer
of The Society, and Countess Wachtmeister, recently ap­
pointed by him as Assistant Secretary to The Society.
H. P. B. proposed that Col. Olcott should be “ President in
248 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
General,” and asked him to ratify these plans ; but they dis­
turbed both him and the Council at Adyar, for they felt such
a move might break up The Society.
Troubles had arisen in Paris, which finally required the
President’s attention, so the Council decided he should go to
Europe to enquire into and settle all these matters. He sent
for Mr. Leadbeater to come and take charge at Adyar. He
left from Bombay, 7 August, and on the way a letter from
the Master K. H. was dropped in his cabin, 29 August.
The Master pointed out that H. P. B. was not the chief
originator of these disturbances in Europe, though her
presence had a share in them. One of the most valu­
able effects of H. P. B.’s mission was that “ it drives men
to self-study and destroys in them blind servility for persons.”
The Master added that “ H. P. B. has next to no concern
with administrative details, and should be kept clear of them.
. . . But this you must tell to all :—with occult matters
she has everything to do . . . she is our direct agent
. . . In the adjustment of this European business you will
have two things to consider—the external and administrative,
and the internal and psychical. Keep the former under your
control and that of your most prudent associates, jointly ;
leave the latter to her. You are left to devise the practical
details with your usual ingenuity. Only be careful . . .
to discriminate when some emergent interference of hers
in practical affairs is referred to you on appeal, between that
which is merely exoteric in origin and effects, and that which
beginning on the practical tends to beget consequences on the
spiritual plane. As to the former you are the best judge, as
to the latter, she . . .”
In London the President received a warm welcome from
H. P. B., and from those who were helping her with The Secret
Doctrine. He was in Paris from 16 September till the 24th.
Finding that the existing Branch in Paris was not serving
any good purpose, Louis Dramard had, 1886, drawn together
a group of members, who were willing to organise
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 249
themselves according to the instructions oi the Masters. He
sought for a journal which would publish Theosophic propa­
ganda and ideas. He found one in the Anti-Materialiste, and
persuaded the owner to change the title to Revue des Haute
Etudes. The Theosophists wished to have an editorial board
for the magazine. This was, however, prevented by the
inundation from several writers of articles violently attacking
India and Theosophists. F. K. Gaboriau came to the rescue,
and offered to devote a small patrimony to founding a new
magazine on condition he was sole editor. This was called
Le Lotus, and was issued “ under the inspiration of H. P.B.,”
who undertook to write regularly for it, and gave permission
to Gaboriau to publish in it either chapters or all of The Secret
Doctrine. To assist the magazine and to make a rallying
point for members, the Isis Branch was formed, 19 July,
1887, with Dramard as President, Froment, Vice-President
and Gaboriau, Secretary. Adyar Delegates were Thurmann
and Encausse, a representation which carried no official
power. Unfortunately, Louis Dramard died in March 1888.
Froment felt himself too young and in experienced for the
position of President, so it was left in abeyance. In
June, a lengthy article by Girard Encausse (Papus) was,
without Encausse’s permission, annotated adversely by
Gaboriau. Opinion was strongly divided for and against
this action. The matter was put before H. P. B. ; also the
question of the post of President. She decided to add to
her own authority as Corresponding Secretary, the authority
of the President-Founder to designate any Fellow to perform
pro-tem. the duties of any office that fell vacant. She felt
forced, in view of the circumstances, to nominate Gaboriau
as President of the Branch, subject to the approval of the
President in Council. The three who were opposed to
Gaboriau (two of whom were not members) refused to accept
this decision and a struggle ensued.
On 17 September the President dissolved the Isis
Branch, and formed a new one, the Hermes, 23 September,
250 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
with fourteen members, and A. Arnould as President, two
Vice-Presidents, two Secretaries, and Encausse as Corres­
ponding Secretary. This settlement threw out Gaboriau, and
he and some of his associates were not at all satisfied ; and
Gaboriau, who had control of Le Lotus, grew abusive. H. P. B.
made it clear that she would neither write for it nor allow The
Secret Doctrine to appear in its pages if he published abuse
of the President. “ For,” she wrote, “ the Colonel has
sacrificed his family happiness, his place in the world,,
and his position in the United States for the cause of human­
ity, and millions of Indians venerate him.” At the same time
she felt that Gaboriau also had made sacrifices and devoted
his time and money to the service of The Society, and she
thought the Colonel had been unjust to him.1
After Col. Olcott’s decisions at Paris, with which
H. P. B. disagreed, especially the inclusion of Encausse
as an official in the new Branch, she was the more con­
vinced of the necessity of having an arrangement whereby
affairs in the West could receive more attention and under­
standing. She went further, and suggested that it would
be better to divide The Society into three Sections : India,.
Europe and the United States, with herself and judge
presiding over Europe and America respectively, and the
Colonel as President in the East and President in Chief of
the whole Society. He strongly objected to the plan and
it was not pursued. New members gathered round H. P. B.
did not realise that she and Col. Olcott could seriously
disagree with one another on matters of policy, and yet
be united in devotion to The Society. They found it
necessary, therefore, jointly to issue a statement that they
were united always in purpose and zeal, and were ready “ to
sacrifice all, even life, for the promotion of Theosophical
knowledge, to the saving of mankind from the miseries which
spring from ignorance.”
1H. P. B.’s Letters to Mme Lemaitre in H isto ir e d e la S o c ié t é T h eo so -
p h iq u e e n F r a n ce, par Charles Blech, 1933, p. 171, e t seq .
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 251
On 8 October the representatives of the British Branches
met to consider the formation of a British Section. An
adjourned meeting was held on the 19th and called a
“ Convention of Lodges,” when the Constitution which the
President had prepared was passed, with only Sinnett voting
against it. The Lodges forming the Section were : Blavatsky,
Scottish Theosophical Society, Dublin, and those newly form­
ed in Cambridge and Glasgow. Sinnett refused to belong to
this British Section. He obtained formal consent from Col.
Olcott “ as President of the whole Society, recognising the
right of the London Lodge to continue an integral part of the
Theosophical Society though remaining outside the organisa­
tion of the British Section.” 1
An organisation was formed, 9 October, to meet
the persistent demand to have esoteric teaching from
H. P. B., and an opportunity of preparing for chelaship
(pupilship) under her guidance. She had, as we have seen,
often formed small groups of people to prepare them to be
“ chelas,” and Sinnett had been for years the transmitter of
“ instructions ” to an “ Inner Group.” These groups had had.
both success and failure. The President had objected to the
formation of another, and H. P. B. warned him that if his
objections persisted there would be two “ Theosophical
Societies, entirely independent of each other—Indian and
European.” After receiving the Master K. H.’s letter, and
realising that though he did not care for such groups, he must
yield to H. P. B., the Colonel issued an “ Order in Council ”
forming an Esoteric Section with Madame Blavatsky as its
responsible head :
T he Esoteric Section of T he T heosophical
Society
I. To promote the esoteric interests of the Theosophical Society
by the deeper study of esoteric philosophy, there is hereby organized a
body, to be known as the “ Esoteric Section of the Theosophical Society.”
1Mr. Sinnett in a letter to a friend, Oct. 1889.
252 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
2. The constitution and sole direction of the same is vested in
Madame H. P. Blavatsky, as its head; she is solely responsible to the
members for results ; and the section has no official or corporate connec­
tion with the Exoteric Society, save in the person of the President-
Found er . . .
Attest ; H. P. Blavatsky, (Sd.) H. S. Olcott,
Corresponding Secretary. President in Council.
This Esoteric Section had rather drastic Rules, which had
later to be modified. Sinnett declined to participate in this
work. About twenty students who had been with him since
1883 continued to study with him. But the Inner Group
which had been working under him became the Inner Group
of the Esoteric Section, with Mrs. Besant as chief Secretary
and Recorder of the Teachings. In May 1887, Mr. Judge
had asked to have a group in America similar to
Mr. Sinnett’s, working under himself, and sent H. P. B. a
request to authorise him to do so. She told him he might
go ahead without the authorisation, as she had other
plans in mind. A few months afterwards she was explaining
her plans in London when Judge telegraphed asking her
to make them public. She invited him to come to help,
which he did, and assisted her in drawing up the Rules.1 The
E. S. members were formed into privates Lodges with their
•own charters.
On 28 October Col. Olcott joined the ship on which were
travelling also Charles Johnston and his wife (H. P. B.’s
niece, Vera), Richard Harte, Baroness Kroumess and E. D.
Fawcett, and reached Bombay 10 November.
There was rather a small attendance at Convention,
partly because the National Congress was meeting at
Allahabad, partly because the Subba Row defection was not
yet healed, and as some Bombay members and others had
demanded his readmittance they stayed away, since their
1On the strength of these incidents Judge afterwards claimed that he
■was “ one of the Founders with H. P. B." of the E. S.
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 253
request had met with a refusal from the President. The
Convention confirmed his action.
The most important administrative changes were : (1)
The re-organisation of The Society upon the basis of Sectional
autonomy such as was followed by the United States, with
25 Branches and rapidly growing in importance under the
direction and the enthusiasm of W. Q. Judge, General Sec­
retary ; by Britain, with Archibald Keightley as General
Secretary ; and by Ceylon, with C. W. Leadbeater as General
Secretary ; but not yet by the many Indian Branches, the
welfare of which still rested upon the President’s shoulders.
“ These and all future Sections,” said the President, “ are or
will be inseparably united with the central point where the
President-Founder represents or wields the executive autho­
rity of the entire undivided body known as The Theosophical
Society.” The office of Vice-President had fallen into
abeyance since 1883, when Vice-Presidents had been numer­
ous. On the re-creation of the office W. Q. Judge was the sole
appointee. Besides H. P. B. and Col. Olcott, he was the only
other Founder still a member of The Society. (2) The deci­
sion to abandon the system of cash payments either of fees
or annual dues, small though they were. This soon showed
itself as impracticable.1 (3) Full executive authority was
restored to the President instead of being vested in a General
Council ; the Executive Council now become advisory. (4)
The formation of the Esoteric Section under the guidance of
the Corresponding Secretary (H. P. B.).
The Committee recommended abandoning the name of
“ Parent Society.” While the original Society was the
Parent of all Branches, yet it was the whole Society itself,
and an expansion of that founded in 1875. It was and is an
indivisible Theosophical Society. Several Rules framed
1The finances of the whole Society were thrown into disorder. Before
long the President found it necessary to issue an Executive Notice, pend­
ing the decision of the Council, that each Section should fix its own fees
and dues, and apply them to the Society's work as the Sectional body
should determine. This system still prevails.
254 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
in this year are still in practice : that seven Branches are
necessary to form a Section ; that the term of Office of any
future President should be seven years ; that the President
shall be the custodian of all Archives and Records of The
Theosophical Society ; that all charters and diplomas are
derived from the President and may be cancelled by the
same authority.
Col. Olcott had been invited to go to Japan in the inte­
rests of Buddhism and before leaving he appointed to exercise
all Executive functions on his behalf during his absence :
Dewan Bahadur R. Raghunath Row, Dewan Bahadur
P. Sreenavasa Row, and Mr. Richard Harte, who had been
made Librarian, and was assisting with the editorship
of The Theosophist, as Mr. Leadbeater had gone back to
Ceylon.
The really great event of the year 1888 was the publica­
tion in October of the long-expected S e c r e t D o c t r in e ,
H. P. B.’s magnum opus, and her superb reply to all attacks
and all criticisms. The publication of The Secret Doctrine
outmoded and still outmodes all other occult literature.
The ancient Stanzas o f Dzyan upon which it is based are
formulas of creation and evolution—profound, eternal ; and
the Commentaries depict manifestations of divine Conscious­
ness, to the reality of which testimony is borne in all ages
by the Scriptures, Philosophies, Sciences and Arts of the
world.
1889
The Secret Doctrine had been published simultaneously
in London and New York. As the first English edition of 500
copies was exhausted before the date of publication, a second
was issued. With these two volumes the material available
was by no means all used, and H. P. B. intended to publish
two more volumes. She prepared another book called The
K ey to Theosophy. For years Col. Olcott had used the
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 255
word “ Theosophy ” in his lectures, and had made it synony­
mous with the “ Aryan Science ” of the Hindus. He was
still maintaining that the fundamental rules of The Society
forbade any member to preach his own religion to others not
of the same faith. Mr. Sinnett’s book Esoteric Buddhism had
given rise in the West to the notion that The Society was
standing for Buddhism, the name given to the Truths pro­
pounded by Gautama the Buddha ; whereas H. P. B. pointed
out that it was really “ Budhism,” Knowledge or Wisdom,
for which it stood. After the publication of The K ey to
Theosophy the word Theosophy became generally known as
indicating the teachings sponsored by The Theosophical
Society ; also, it met the calumnies and misconceptions about
the Society itself.1
H. P. B. began to translate The Voice o f the Silence,
a book which has had a profound influence upon the lives of
thousands of members. It was taken from The Book o f the
Golden Precepts, compiled by Aryasanga," for the use of the
monks when he lived in a Himalayan monastery in Nepal.
It began with the Stanzas o f Dzyan3in written words, not
symbols, then some extracts from other works, and his pupils
added notes of his sermons.
In addition, H. P. B. was doing much of the editing of
the French magazine La Reoue Theosophique, published by
the Comtesse d’Adhemar till 1890, when she left France.
It was followed by Le Lotus Bleu—which still enjoys a
successful career.
Under the inspiration of H. P. B., The Society was forg­
ing ahead in England. Some members arranged in June,
a “ Grand Evening Concert” at Princes’ Hall, Piccadilly, the
proceeds of which were “ to be devoted to the spreading of
Theosophical Literature.” So many were attracted from the
London to the Blavatsky Lodge that the former gave up its
room in York Street, and made a present of its books and
1See Appendix. 2See T h e V o ice o f T h e S ile n c e .
3 See T he Stanzas o f Dzyan, in T h e S e c r e t D o ctrin e.
256 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
furniture to the British Section. It then met in Mr. Sinnett’s
house, and continued to issue valuable “ Transactions.”
The story of Mrs. Besant’s dramatic life, related in her
Autobiography (1893), is the story of a remarkable woman
who struggled courageously towards freedom of thought
and action. She had come to the point in her life where
she felt that even in the Freethought Movement she had
not found the real something she sought. Filled with
“ an intense but nearly hopeless longing to solve the
riddle of life and mind,” she heard a Voice bidding her take
courage, for light was near. A fortnight later Mr. W. T.
Stead, editor of the Review o f Reviews, brought her two large
volumes to review. They were The Secret Doctrine. She
read them absorbedly, and in a “ flash of illumination . . .
knew that the weary search was over and the very Truth was
found.” She asked Mr. Stead for an introduction to the
writer, on whom she asked to be allowed to call. In reply,
H. P. B. wrote, 15 March, “ I too have long been wishing to
make your acquaintance as there is nothing in the world I
admire more than pluck and the rare courage to come out
and state one’s opinions boldly in the face of all the world,
including Mrs. Grundy.” 1
When she spoke to H. P. B. about joining The Theo-
sophical Society, she replied by asking Mrs. Besant to read
the S. P. R. Report. She did so, and soon saw “ how slender
was the foundation on which the imposing structure was
raised,” and that “ everything turned on the veracity of the
Coulombs, and they were self-stamped as partners in the
alleged frauds.” She joined The Society, and after receiving
her diploma betook herself to Lansdowne Road to see
H. P. B. and to give her answer : “ Will you accept me as
your pupil, and give me the honour of proclaiming you my
teacher in the face of the world ? ” ,
Mrs. Besant fully realised all that it would mean to part
from the friends and comrades of years, and especially from
1T his letter is in the A rchives.
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 257
Mr. Charles Bradlaugh, whose co-worker and co-fighter she
was in the ranks of Materialism.
In July Mrs. Besant went to Paris with Herbert Burrows
to attend a great Labour Congress ; then spent a few days
with H. P. B. at Fontainebleau, whither she had gone for a
rest, for overwork had caused her to fall ill. She was still
busy translating The Voice o f the Silence. It was written in
perfect English and “ remains as a specimen of marvellously
beautiful literary work.” It was during this visit to H. P. B.
that Mrs. Besant first came into direct relation with the
Master M., and knew it was He who had spoken to her on
earlier occasions.
Since a storm of criticism had greeted Mrs. Besant’s
announcement of her joining The Society, and “ absurd,
untrue statements ” were being made about the step she had
taken, she gave two lectures at the Flail of Science,
4 and 11 August, on “ Why I became a Theosophist."
It was during these lectures that Mrs. Besant uttered
the much-quoted words : “ An imperious necessity forces
me to speak the Truth, as I see it, whether the speech
please or displease, whether it bring praise or blame.
That one loyalty to Truth I must keep stainless, what­
ever friendships fail me or human ties be broken. She
may lead me into the wilderness yet must I follow her ;
she may strip me of all I love, yet I must pursue her;
though she slay me yet will I trust in her ; and I ask
no other epitaph on my tomb but ‘ She tried to Follow
Truth
It was not long before Mrs. Besant was characteristically
urging the need in The Society of practical service to the
world and “ work for humanity,” for the “ Principle of
Brotherhood forbids us merely to look on at suffering.’*
During August she had deeds drawn up, vesting in the hands
of Trustees, her property, 19 Avenue Rd., as a Headquarters
for the British Section, in the service of the Theosophi-
cal cause, under the direction of H. P. B. In September
17
258 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
Mrs. Besant became co-editor of Lucifer, as Mabel Collins
was unable to continue as such.
At a Council meeting held 6 January it was decided
to make two Sections in India, with the intention of relieving
the President of some of the burden of responsibility and
especially as he was about to leave on a long visit to Japan.
Mr. Tookaram Tatya and Judge D. N. Gadgil were to be
the respective General Secretaries. The American Section
was enlarged to embrace both N. and S. America and the
West Indies. Mr. Judge had been urging this because he felt
he could best cope with the situation, as he knew Spanish
and had several times visited S. America on business.
The President went first to Colombo, 10 January. There
he formed a Committee for the organisation of the Ceylon
Section. On the day of his departure for Japan, 17 January,
accompanied by H. Dharmapala, the High Priest Sumangala
gave him a dramatic send-off. At Singapore he went ashore
and organised a Branch with 19 members, and included it in
the Ceylon Section.
On arrival at Kobe, 9 February, priests of all sects met
and took Col. Olcott to the Temple of the Ten Dai Sect,
where crowds of priests and people greeted him. The un­
accustomed cold of Japan caused Dharmapala to fall ill, so he
took but little part in the tour. The object of the Colonel’s long
and exacting journeys, which sometimes severely upset his
health, was to bring together on a common platform the
various Buddhist Sects of Japan, as had been done in Ceylon.
Dharmapala remarked that the “ Young Theosophical Society
. . . might be the golden link to reunite the Southern
and Northern Buddhist Churches that had been dissevered
for 2,200 years.”
1Mabel Collins had brought a suit against H. P. B., in July, but when
a certain letter, upon which the suit was based, was shown by H P. B.’s
attorneys to the plaintiff’s Counsel, he took the unusual course of going
into Court and asking the judge to take off the case, thus exposing the
weakness of the charge, and bringing the matter to a conclusion. T h e
P a th , Aug. 1890.
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 259
The Colonel was still thinking of The Theosophical
Society in terms of religious divisions, all forming one Brother­
hood, so he advised the Japanese that he was there in a dual
capacity—as an individual Buddhist, and as President of The
Society “ acting through and on behalf of its Buddhist
Division." He recommended them to form Branches and
register them with this Division. He pointed to “ our great
enemy Christianity ” and suggested that just as the Christians
organised to “ spend millions to destroy Buddhism,” so the
whole nation should organise to defend and propagate
Buddhism. He urged the formation of a Joint Committee
comprising all the Sects, and unless this was done he refused
'to undertake the tour. After arguments, the Joint Committee
was formed and the crusade that followed was an immense
success. Col. Olcott “ received the most courteous treatment
from all classes, from His Imperial Majesty and his Cabinet
Ministers down to the populace."
The Colonel travelled throughout March, April and May,
visiting 33 towns and delivering about 76 lectures to
audiences numbering from 2,000 to 5,000 or more, besides
other meetings and giving innumerable interviews. By the
time he left, 28 May, he felt that if he could be spared from
The Theosophical movement proper, he could very soon
build up “ an International Buddhist League, that might
send the Dharma (Law) like a tidal wave round the
world.”
When he reached Adyar, 11 July, the President found
affairs had gone smoothly during his absence. After con­
sultation with his three “ Commissioners,” he decided not to
hold any Convention this year, and instead to issue Instruc­
tion Tracts, etc. Mr. C. F. Powell (American) arrived to help
in the work, but soon departed for Ceylon to relieve
Mr. Leadbeater, who had accepted Mr. Sinnett’s invitation
to go to England to become resident tutor to his son.
He took with him the thirteen-year-old Sinhalese boy,
C. Jinarajadasa-
(
260 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
On 8 August the President left via Ceylon for Europe, and
arrived in London 4 September. One of the main reasons
for this visit was the growing tendency to misapply a clause
in the E. S. Rules, which was to the effect that members were
to obey the Outer Head of the Section in all that concerned
their Theosophical duties and Esoteric work. It caused the
question to arise as to whether H. P. B. was loyal to Adyar
and to the Colonel, or whether she was trying to control
Adyar. H. P. B. very vigorously denied that the Esoteric
Section, with the exception of the President, had anything to-
do with The Society or its Council. She alone was responsible
for its members, and it had no pretensions to control The
Theosophical Society. As to loyalty, she declared : “ H. P. B„
is loyal to death to the Theosophical Cause, and those great
Teachers whose philosophy can alone bind the whole of
Humanity into one Brotherhood.” She pointed out what was
being obscured was that she, with Col. Olcott, was the chief
Founder and Builder of The Society ; that her loyalty to the
Colonel was not because he was President but because he
had been so devoted to it, and was a loyal friend and co­
worker. The degree of her sympathy with The Theosophical
Society and Adyar depended upon the degree of loyalty of
that Society to the Cause. Should it break away or show
disloyalty to that Cause, and the original programme of The
Society,1 she would shake it off like dust from her feet. As
to loyalty to Adyar, what was it apart from the Cause and
the “ two (not one Founder . . .)” To be logical accord­
ing to the Rules of The Society members had to be loyal ta
the place wherever the President happened to be. The
President, however, declared he would resign if H. P. B. did
not amend the “ obedience ” clause, since it led to so many
misunderstandings and was giving him so much trouble in
the management of The Society. H. P. B. did amend it.
To prevent further complications, she, in December, appointed
the Colonel as her confidential agent and sole representative
1L u cifer , Aug. 1889.
EXPANSION IN EAST AND WEST 261
of the E. S. in Asiatic countries. The name of the E. S. was
changed to The Eastern School of Theosophy, and the
fact that it had no official connection with The Society was
reasserted.
The statement had occurred in an American paper that
“ there is the parent Society in New York.” This was
officially taken up and it was pointed out in The Thcosophist
that “ the Headquarters of The Theosophical Society is at
Adyar in India, that there is only One Theosophical Society,
the ‘ Branches ’ being allowed to take the title of ‘ Society *
only by courtesy ; that only those were eligible for election to
a Branch whose Fellowship was conferred upon them by the
Central authority at Adyar.”
In London, the President found Mrs. Besant living in
the house with H. P. B. Though she was dressed like
a woman of the toiling class, he knew at once she was
an important “ gain ” to The Society. With her he visited
Charles Bradlaugh, who admitted sadly that she was a great
loss to him, but that “ she must always act according to her
conscience.” The President went several times to hear
Mrs. Besant speak, and was struck by her forcible oratory.
Already she was speaking on Theosophy and defending
H. P. B. She took the chair for him when he spoke to a
packed house at South Place Chapel on “ Theosophy and its
Work.”
The President received visits from the Secretary of the
Japanese Imperial Council and the Secretary of the Japanese
Legation in London, who talked with him about his tour in
Japan. He lectured to the National Liberal Club and held
many interviews. On 1 October he went to Wales—
Merthyr Tydfil and Tenby, and then to Ireland—Dublin,
Limerick and Belfast, and found thoughtful audiences every­
where. In London the titles of two of his lectures were
arresting as being used for the first time—“ Theosophy, the
Wisdom Religion," and “ The Psychic Powers Latent in
Man.”
262 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
The President realised that more freedom to act and
work was necessary in the British Section. He therefore, in
compliance with the unanimous request of the Council of the
Section, and to obviate the delay of reference to Headquarters
on current questions requiring his adjudication, appointed
H. P. Blavatsky as Chairman, and Annie Besant, William
Kingsland and Herbert Burrows as members of an Appellate
Board, as “ the President’s Commissioners ” for Great Britain
and Ireland. He conferred upon them his full powers and
declared them to be his personal representatives and official
proxies. His special proviso was that all executive orders
and decisions made on his behalf were to be unanimously
agreed to and signed by all four.
The brilliant young journalist, E. D. Fawcett, who had
helped H. P. B. with The Secret Doctrine, especially in
those parts of the second volume dealing with evolu­
tionary hypotheses, decided to surrender his post of sub­
assistant editor of the Daily Telegraph to give his voluntary
services to The Theosophist.
Instead of the usual Convention and Anniversary
meetings, a Conference of F. T. S. was held in Bombay,
with an attendance representative of the Indian Section.
The fact that Adyar, London and New York had overcome
their difficulties, and were to work together in unity, stimu­
lated the ideal of Brotherhood. A letter from the President
reported the rapid growth of The Society throughout the world.
A. Fullerton, America, reported astonishing progress made ;
over 60,000 “ Tracts ” had been mailed, The Path flourished,
and Mr. Judge’s tours had had a great effect. G. R. S. Mead
sent greetings from England. The Resolutions passed
showed that the division of The Society in India into four
Sections, instead of two, was not convenient, and it was
resolved to ask for one Section managed by a General
Secretary with an Executive Council ; and that as Sec­
tions were to handle their own incomes, therefore each
should contribute to the support of Adyar Headquarters
THE KEY TO THEOSOPHY 263
and Library. This system continues, but on an income per­
centage basis.
A PPE N D IX
A fter the publication of The K ey lo Theosophy, it was clear
that for the uses of a modern world the Ancient Wisdom
or Secret Doctrine had become known as Theosophy and
its form The Theosophical Society. The doctrine as
enunciated by Madame Blavatsky may be summarised as
follows :
Theosophy is Divine Knowledge or Science, the Wisdom
Religion.
The Objects of The Theosophical Society are to recon­
cile all religions, sects and nations under a common system
of ethics, based on eternal verities, for all spring from the
one Wisdom Religion.
The true Wisdom Religion is always esoteric, and is
preserved among Initiates in every country, in the Mysteries,
both lesser and greater.
Only by an ardent turning of the soul to the Divine
can the Spiritual Self be known ; but this sacred divine
Knowledge is not entrusted to the unreliable or to the
selfish.
The Theosophical Society is organised to promulgate
Theosophical doctrines. The members are free to profess
whatever religion or philosophy they prefer, or none.
The Society propagates the idea of Brotherhood on
practical lines.
The three Objects of The Society were stated much
as now.
H. P. B. explained that there is an exoteric and an
esoteric Section of The Society.
She outlined the Fundamental Teachings of Theo­
sophy as :
2 6 4 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
(а) Deity—the mysterious power of evolution and in­
volution, the omnipresent, omnipotent, and omniscient crea­
tive potentiality.
(б) All things emanate from this Universal Soul. The
Universe is uncreate, being but eternal reality periodically re­
flecting itself in infinite spatial depths. Universes, as all
else, come and go.
(c) Our planetary system is sevenfold, with seven
planets in different degrees of objectivity. Man too is
septenary in nature, being composed of seven principles.
(d) Man’s physical and personal principles undergo the
process called Reincarnation in order to perfect them. His
Soul or individual Self has continuity. His immortal Self, or
Monad, bears final witness to the long process of evolution,
from which it gains definition and experience.
Karma is the law of balance and adjustment, to which
all creatures are subject.
There are “ local ” conditions for man’s principles, i.e.,
worlds or spheres in which they are spatially operative, and
from which distinctive characteristics are garnered.
The nature of the Ego is explained and how it accepts,
or reaps, the advantages gained by its incarnating personality.
Various ethical qualifications necessary to the neophyte
seeking the Master or Teacher are dwelt upon. They are the
safeguards exacted from all who approach the portals of
Initiation.
H. P. B. affirmed that the Masters exist. They do not
guide the Society. They “ look at the future” and offer
opportunities.
If The Society holds true to its mission into and through
the twentieth century, it will “ gradually leaven and permeate
the great mass of thinking and intelligent people with its large-
minded and noble ideas of Religion, Duty and Philanthropy
. . . then earth will be a heaven in the twenty-first century
in comparison with what it is now ! ’’
H. P. B .’S L A S T Y E A E S
“ She [H. P. B.] practically destroyed Materialism as a Philosophy.”
— A n n i e B e s a n t .
“ Unswering devotion to Him who embodies the duty traced for and
belief in the Wisdom—collectively, of that grand, mysterious, yet actual
Brotherhood of holy men—is my only merit.”
—H. P. Blavatsky, 1886.
1890
WHEN the President arrived in Ceylon, 27 January, he held
the first convention of the Ceylon Section, when his draft
of Rules was adopted. Writing to Lucifer (March) of the excel­
lent work accomplished in Ceylon by “ our energetic and
single-hearted President,” Mr. Fawcett reported that the High
Priest Sumangala publicly admitted that The Society’s efforts
since 1880 had revived the fervour of Sinhalese Buddhists for
the sublime teachings of the Lord Buddha.
In March the President appealed for volunteers to visit
Lodges to keep their interest alive. Mr. Kottaya Chetty,
Nellore, volunteered his services, which were gladly accepted.
He was one of the first “ Branch Inspectors,” the other being
C. F. Powell, who had already done much service in Ceylon.
He went on tour among the Branches in S. India, but died
suddenly in February. In June T. Subba Row passed away
in great physical misery, which Col. Olcott tried to alleviate
mesmerically.
The President visited Trichinopoly in June, and the fact
that he appointed new officers to the Branch showed that
there was not much in the way of an elective system in
266 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
operation. Since E. D. Fawcett was living at Headquarters,
a series of lectures was given by him, the Colonel, and others,
which were well attended. The Colonel’s old friend, S. K.
Ghose, advised him that a scheme was on foot to raise an
Indian National Testimonial Fund, to ensure his personal
comfort. Though touched by this proof of India’s regard for
him, he declined the Fund, as the profits from The Theosophist,
then Rs. 250 a month, some of which was sent to H. P. B.,
were enough to supply his needs. In October The Colonel
went to Ceylon to open the Sanghamitta Buddhist Girls
School. This was the first school of its kind in the Island,
and the beginning of the movement for the higher education
of Sinhalese girls under Buddhist direction.
Near Trichinopoly, on his way back to Adyar, the Presi­
dent greeted Bertram Keightley. At first he thought that as
Keightley came with full powers from H. P. B. to represent
the British Section at the Annual Convention, this meant she
was trying to undermine his authority in India. The Presi­
dent declared that from 1 January 1891 the four Indian
Sections should merge into one, with Mr. Keightley as
General Secretary and with Headquarters at Adyar—subject
to the approval of H. P. B., to whose staff he was attached.
The former General Secretaries would become Provincial
Secretaries and form the Executive Committee of the new
Indian Section, for which the President drafted a set of Rules.
The Section expressed lively satisfaction with Mr. Keightley’s
appointment. “ Pending the execution of the above Order
he was appointed Inspector-General of Indian Branches.
Early in this year H. P. B. was given £1000 to use in the
service of poor women. She decided to establish a Club for
working girls in the East End of London. An old house, 193
Bow Road, was taken and renovated, and a Hall built. It
was opened, 15 August, by H. P. B., and placed in charge of
Mrs. Besant and Miss L. Cooper. H. P. B. was most care­
ful that, in accordance with the donor’s wishes, none but
H. P. B .S LAST YEARS 267
women Theosophists should be responsible for its manage­
ment, and that no religious bias should be expressed.
After H. P. B.’s passing, the burden of the Club fell upon
Mrs. Besant who, finding the cost too heavy, closed it in
July 1894.
The household removed to 19 Avenue Road, N. W .,
which was now ready for occupation. It was a large house
standing in its own grounds, and became the Headquarters of
the British Section, and also of the European Section when it
was formed. An additional room was built for the Esoteric
Section, and for Blavatsky Lodge a meeting-hall of cor­
rugated iron which held 200. H. P. B. was present at
the opening of this hall, but was not well enough to speak.
All members of the household worked hard, and none so
tirelessly as H. P. B. at her literary drudgery, driving her sick
body through its tasks. Among her staff of workers were
the devoted Archibald and Bertram Keightley, who were
again generous with regard to the cost of the changes
Countess Wachtmeister, George Mead, H. P. B.’s secretary
and disciple, a fine scholar on Gnosticism, who was chief
editor of the third edition of The Secret Doctrine, 1893. Claude
Wright, Irish ; Walter R. Old ; Miss Emily Kislingbury ;
Mrs. Cooper-Oakley, James Pryse, American, making possi­
ble the development of the printing department ; Miss Laura
Cooper (afterwards Mrs. Mead) and Herbert Burrows.
In the evenings these workers gathered in H. P. B.’s
room where they discussed plans, received instructions and
listened to her explanations. “ As a teacher, she was
marvellously patient.” Herbert Burrows in an article in Lucifer
struck that note which resulted later in the Theosophical
Order of Service. He wrote :
“ Religion, Education, Socialism, Secularism, Material­
ism, the emancipation of Women, the training and culture of
children, the relation of the sexes, the reciprocal influences of
society upon the individual and of the individual upon
society, and other kindred subjects which affect the inner
268 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
and outer life of the Occidental world, must all sooner or
later be brought within the Theosophical purview."
In a very interesting letter written in the April Lucifer,
“ To my Brothers of Aryavarta," H. P. B. surveyed the five
years that had passed since she left India, and said that
“ Acting under the Master’s orders, I began a new move­
ment in the West on the original lines ; I founded Lucifer,
and the Lodge which bears my name. Recognising the
splendid work done at Adyar by Colonel Olcott and others
to carry out the second of the three Objects of the T.S., viz.,
to promote the study of Oriental literature, I was determined
to carry out here the two others.”
In order to meet the needs of enquirers The Vahan
(vehicle) was issued by the British Section, 1 December, and
lasted until 1921. It was noted for its Question and Answer
columns.
The publication of The Secret Doctrine and other books
had aroused great interest; meetings in London and elsewhere
grew rapidly larger and the work in every department over­
flowed. There were more than a thousand pledged supporters
of H. P. B. who were students of Occultism and looked to
her for guidance and inspiration. Many were inclined to
deprecate Col. Olcott’s more outward-turned activities, and
knew very little of the great changes in thought and action he
had wrought in Eastern countries, particularly in India and
Ceylon. Opinion had grown up that he neglected and did
not understand the needs of the West ; complaints often
reached him on this score both from Europe and America,
where Judge was sole director of the work, with an increasing
influence, and around him competent workers. This sense
of grievance against the President was accentuated in Europe
when he sent, 28 May, to Dr. G. Encausse (Papus) the
charter he had applied for. H. P. B. was opposed to this,
knowing Encausse was making trouble and threatening to
attack the Society. The President had to suspend the Charter
1L u cife r , March, 1890, p. 58.
H. P. B .S LAST YEARS 269
in August, and, on his advice, Encausse was expelled from
The Society by the Council of the European Section.
In June H. P. B. demanded the formation of a European
Section with herself as head, or she would break off. This
time Col. Olcott felt he must let matters take their course.
On 9 July he sent H. P. B. an Order to organise a European
Section. He then received what he described as a “ revolu­
tionary ” letter from the British Section, decreeing absolute
Presidential power to H. P. B. for Europe. This Resolution
was published in Lucifer, July, as a Notice :
“ In obedience to the almost unanimous voice of the Fellows of the
Theosophical Society in Europe, I, H. P. Blavatsky, the originator and
Co-Founder of the Theosophical Society, accept the duty of exercising
the Presidential authority for the whole of Europe : and in virtue of this
authority 1 declare that the Headquarters of the Theosophical Society in.
London, where I reside, will in future be the Headquarters for the transac­
tion of all official business of the Theosophical Society in Europe. H. P.
Blavatsky."
H. P. B. said that Col. Olcott remained “ as heretofore,
President-Founder of The Theosophical Society the world
o v e r She had selected as an advisory Council, including
the three colleagues formerly appointed by the President :
Annie Besant, Wm. Kingsland, H. Burrows, A. P. Sinnett,
Dr. H. A. W. Coryn, E. T. Sturdy and G. R. S. Mead. At
a Council Meeting of the British Section, stress was laid on.
the advantage of being directed from a European Centre and
not from an Asiatic one, and that this would do away with
the delays in obtaining Charters and Diplomas, and answers
to pressing questions, though as a matter of fact these were
already directed to H. P. B.
A requisition was drawn up embodying the views of
those concerned, to be addressed to the President. It stated
that the Continental Lodges and unattached members had
made appeal to H. P. B. to place themselves directly under
her authority, and the British Section joined in their demands
that the constitutional powers at present exercised by
Col. Olcott in Europe, should be transferred to H. P, B. and
her Advisory Council. The British Lodges represented
270 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
were : Blavatsky, Brighton, Brixton, Cambridge, Dublin,
Liverpool, Newcastle, Scottish, and West of England.
H. P. B. stated that in thus proposing to relieve in some
measure the President-Founder of responsibilities which it
was impossible for him to discharge at so great a distance
from Europe, she had the sympathy and approval of the
Presidents of the following Lodges : A. P. Sinnett, London ;
A. Arnould, Hermes, Paris ; G. Zander, Stockholm;
E. Coulomb, Nantes, France ; O. Alexandre, Corfu ; J. Xifre,
Madrid ; G. Zorn, Odessa ; and all Presidents of the British
Section Lodges.
Upon receipt of this Resolution and information, the
President went immediately to the printer, 29 July, and
ordered to be destroyed the 350 copies of The Theosophist Sup­
plement already run off, and inserted a “ Presidential Order
cancelling that Resolution ! ” 1He declared ’ that his “ Order ”
to form a European Section did not mean a
" dissolution of the British Section, nor . . . an amalgamationwith
it of any Branches or Unofficial groups outside the United Kingdom, nor
of any Territorial Sections that may hereafter be formed in other
countries . . .”
He directed that a Territorial Section formed of the
necessary seven Branches in any European country had full
liberty to adopt its own Constitution and Bye-Laws, in
harmony with those of the Constitution of The Theosophical
Society. Such Bye-Laws were to be submitted to the super­
vision of Madame Blavatsky as Presidential Delegate and
Representative and obtain her approval, as previous to the
Executive Order of 9 July they would have had to obtain his
own. He recognized Mr. Mead as General Secretary,
pro lem., of the European Section, and Charters for Branches
or their cancellation would be under Madame Blavatsky s
orders. His intention was that she should have “ entire
responsibility for the good government of our European
Branches, and my full power to enforce the Rules of The
1D ia ry , July, 1890. • T h e T h eo so p h ist, Oct. 1890, Supplement.
H. P. B .S LAST YEARS 271
Society as from time to time defined by the General Council."
(Dated 17 September).
Feeling discouraged, Col. Olcott, 25 September, advised
Mr. Mead, as General Secretary of the Europen Section,
that he wished to retire and leave the sole headship to H. P. B.
He wrote to her, 7 October, telling her he meant to retire,
and, 12 November, asked her to take the office of President.
He wrote the same to others in Europe and America, and began
to make plans for building a house in Ootacamund. He sent,
9 December, to Tookaram Tatya the draft of a scheme to sell
Adyar to the Adyar Library and have him support it with a
Theosophical Society Fund of Rs. 50,000. The Society was
to retain such rooms and grounds as would suffice for Head­
quarters’ business.
Towards the end of November, Richard Harte drafted an
address for Keightley to read, as from H. P. B. to Conven­
tion, about Col. Olcott’s retirement. This draft Keightley
revised and sent to H. P. B. for approval. Upon receipt of it
she cabled her emphatic refusal to have such an address
read on her behalf. She declared the Master disapproved of
the Colonel’s resignation. She followed this up with an order
to Keightley to return if the Colonel retired, and she threaten­
ed she would sever her connection with the Society if he
did retire.
Meanwhile, the President had received innumerable
appeals that he would remain in office. These would not
perhaps have affected his decision, but he received news that
the New York Sun would stand suit on the libels against
H. P. B. and Judge. He feared that this might mean Prof.
Coues, who was behind the attack, had obtained other
Coulomb letters. It meant difficulty for H. P. B., and he did
not see how in that case he could retire and desert her.1
When the withdrawal of his resignation was communicat­
ed to Convention, 27 December, there was a great outburst
of pleasure and satisfaction, and the Convention reaffirmed the
1D ia ry , 17 Dec. 1890.
272 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
right of the Colonel to remain President for life. In his
Presidential Address Col. Olcott explained that the long
stress of work had wearied him and strained his constitution.
He realised that since H. P. B. would withdraw if he did, it
would mean the breaking up of The Society, too precious thus
to imperil. He felt his life work was not yet finished. A
religious pact of the Buddhist nations and the unification of
the two schools of Buddhistic Philosophy had but just begun.
He dreamed of an International Buddhist League with
the reconquest of India for Buddhism. He feared for the
chances of the revival of Sanskrit learning if anything should
happen to check the development of the Adyar Library—
“ the child of my brain, the hope of my heart . . . I wish
to live for that ; that alone is ideal enough for one man.” He
wished to take a rest from active official responsibility. He
placed the Presidency “ in Commission,” and appointed
Tookaram Tatya, Bombay ; Norendro Nath Sen, Calcutta ;
N. D. Khandalavala, Ahmedabad ; and W. Q. Judge, New
York, as Presidents Commissioners, and to exercise all
powers and prerogatives.
Mr. Keightley, delegate also for America, related at
Convention how The Society was progressing in the West.
Activities in England, he said, had been ably and wisely
conducted. When in 1885 Mr. Judge took up the task of
reviving interest in The Society in America, he had found
great difficulty in getting together even three members. In
1886 he held meetings regularly and at one time met by him­
self, held meetings week after week, read minutes and studied
the Bhagavad Gita. It was not long before such acts of
will created a centre of attraction, and a hundred members
and hundreds of strangers attended the meetings. Mr. Judge
had gone on indomitably, determined The Society should
grow. The Theosophical Forum, 1889, was established, and
was widely distributed. The Path was an excellent magazine
touching the mystic side of philosophy. Small leaflets
were printed and spread throughout the country, and
H. P. B .S LAST YEARS 273
other lecturing tours were arranged and created great
interest. Mr. Judge’s translation of the Bhagavad Gita, or
rather, his “ selection from existing translations . . and
of Patanjali’s Yoga Philosophy were to be found in every
bookshop, and sold steadily. Though Mr. Judge was not in
good health, yet he worked ceaselessly and was assisted
by Mr. A. Fullerton. One of the wants severely felt was
the lack of suitable literature for children. “ It is incom­
parably easier to give a scientific lecture than to address a
Sunday School,” remarked, in The Path, Mrs. J. Campbell
ver Planck of New York (“ Jasper Niemand," and after­
wards Mrs. A. Keightley), who had already written some
stories for children and was preparing others, with the
Intention of issuing a book which would be an epitome of
Theosophical teaching, adapted to childhood in form and
expression.
A subscription was started to provide liberally for the
President’s needs during his furlough. An enthusiastic vote
of confidence in and loyalty to H. P. B. ended the Conven­
tion proceedings.
DR. COUES ATTACKS H. P. B.
In 1889 the Executive Committee of the American Theo­
sophical Society had found it necessary unanimously to expel
Dr. Elliott F. Coues from The Society on a charge of “ un-
theosophical conduct ” preferred against him, and the Charter
of the Gnostic Lodge (1885) was revoked. In the Peligio-
Philosophical Journal of May and June, 1890, he attempted to
convict Madame Blavatsky “ of conniving at lies ” about
Light on the Path, and in it, June, was printed a heavily
displayed article headed “ Muscovite Mesmerism, a serio­
comic farce by Helena Petrovna Blavatsky and Co.” He
1T h e P a th , Sept. 1890.
18
274 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
had sought to be made President of the American Section,
and claimed publicly to be the perpetual head of the
Esoteric T. S. of America, when he was not even a
member of the E. S. He wrote offensive letters to H. P. B.,
some of which Mr. Judge published, 1 and threatened
her with exposures of various kinds if she did not agree
to his proposals. He described The Society as a hoax, and
pledged esoteric members as Mme. Blavatsky’s dupes.
H. P. B. replied with dignity to some of his letters and
remarked “ there seems to be a curious law which turns the
mud thrown at the Society into additional strength.”
In July 1890 the New York Sun, edited by Charles
A. Dana, published an article—covering an entire page
and embellished with photographs—by Dr. Coues, in
which gross charges were made against the character of
H. P. Blavatsky, the Founder of The Theosophical Society
and charging also Col. Olcott and W. Q. Judge, and many
others with assisting her in fraud and living upon The
Society.” H. P. B. was accused of improper relations in her
early days with her old family friend Prince Emil Wittgen­
stein, whom she had not seen since she was eighteen, and of
having been a member of the demi-monde in Europe in ’58
and ’68. She felt she could not let pass this slur upon the
honourable name of a dead man and friend. She said that
she had for fifteen years seen her own name assailed and
had stood by ; but she felt confident that The Society which
she had helped to found would withstand attacks and grow
under them, and such had been the case. Some had
wondered why she never replied to attacks against Occultism
and phenomena. She had not done so for two reasons :
“ Occultism will remain for ever, no matter how assailed, and
occult phenomena can never be proved in a Court of Law
during this century. Besides, I have never given public
currency to any of the latter, but have always objected to the
giving out of things the profane cannot understand.” As
1D r- E lliott C o u es in h is L etters, June, 1890.
H. P. B. S LAST YEARS 275
regarded the personal attacks she appealed to the Law, and
sued Dr. Coues for $ 50,000. She sent a strongly worded call
to the E. S. in America to stand by Mr. Judge, “ one of the
three Founders of the T. S., the only three who have remained
as true as a rock to the Cause. He is the resuscitator of
Theosophy in the United States.” Another part of the
calumny was that H. P. B. had compiled Isis Unveiled from
MSS. left by Baron de Palm. This was circulated by
Mrs. E. Hardinge Britten, and by several hostile newspapers,
and repeated in France by Dr. G. Encausse.
In the delay caused by getting the suits on to the
calendar owing to the mass of cases ahead, the attacks’con­
tinued. But the suits were to go on until a verdict was
reached, or a retraction given. A victory was gained when
the Sun put in a long answer to Mme Blavatsky’s complaint,
and her lawyer, (Hinricks), demurred to its sufficiency as a
defence. That question was argued in the Supreme Court,
and the lawyer for the Sun confessed in open Court inability
to prove the charge of immorality on which the suit lay, and
asked to be allowed to return the mass of irrelevant matter in
the answer. Madame Blavatsky’s objection was sustained
and the Judge ordered the matter to be struck out. The suit
against Coues came to the same point. The case stood
where it seemed to be only a matter of damages, and when
Mrs. Besant went to America in 1891 she was examined on
H. P. B.’s behalf. Then H. P. B. died. As her action was
for a personal injury to character, her demise put an end to
its continuance, even though the Sun repeated its libel.
In September 1892, however, the Sun published in its pages
an article on H. P. B. by Mr. Judge, and in the same issue
wrote in its editorial columns :
“ We take occasion to observe that on July 20, 1890we were misled
into admitting into the S u n 's columns an article by Dr. E. F. Coues of
Washington, in which allegations were made against Madame Blavatsky’s
character, and also against her followers, which appear to have been
without solid foundation. Mr. Judge’s article disposes of all questions
relating to Madame Blavatsky as presented by Dr. Coues, and we desire
276 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
to say that his allegations respecting The Theosophical Society and
Mr. Judge personally are not sustained by evidence, and should not have
been printed.”
1891
The President’s first action was to notify H.P.B. of
his “ suspended resignation.” He advised her that his
readiness to resume office would depend on her willingness
to alter still further the form of obligation taken by E. S.
members. He was finding that the flow of The Society was
in the direction of H. P. B., and that throughout the world
her instructions held chief place in the lives of the members.
The Burmese Buddhists had urged Col. Olcott to accept
their invitation to lead a Buddhist mission to Europe. They
sent delegates, in January, to Adyar to stress this mission.
The Colonel invited the Sinhalese, and some Japanese
representatives then in Ceylon, to join in the discussions. The
European mission was put aside ; but he asked the delegates
to compare Northern and Southern Schools of Buddhism, and
then drafted Fourteen Points upon which all could agree in
order to promote brotherly feeling between themselves.
This, said Col. Olcott, was “ in the interest of Universal
Brotherhood and to help to realise the first of the three
declared Objects of The Theosophical Society.” In response
to their invitation Col. Olcott was in Burma from 17 January
to 12 February, and succeeded in inducing the responsible
Buddhist Elders to endorse the Fourteen Points.
Before leaving Adyar, 16 February, for Australia, he
appointed Mr. Keightley as Managing Editor of The Thco-
sophist, in place of Mr. Harte who returned to England, after
three years of active and valuable service. Mr. Keightley
had started the first Indian Section journal, the Prasnottara
(Question and Answer).
In Ceylon the Colonel discussed the Fourteen Points
with the High Priest Sumangala who, with other author­
ities, accepted and signed them. He found that The
H. P. B.’s LAST YEARS 277
Theosophical Society in Ceylon was not functioning well,
so he suspended it, and it was not resuscitated until
1926. The chief theosophical activity there had been Educa­
tion, not Theosophy. There were now forty-one “ Buddhist
Schools conducted by The Theosophical Society.”
The President went on to Queensland, to deal with
the Hartmann bequest, which had been pending since
1887. Mr. C. H. Plartmann, F. T. S., Toowoomba, had died
in that year and left a beautiful and profitable estate worth
about £5,000 or more, and made Col. Olcott, representing
The Society, his residuary legatee. The estate of 42 acres
consisted of a lovely public garden and nursery, some real
estate in Toowoomba, and other valuable items. The place
was known throughout Australasia. Upon hearing the terms
of the Will, Hartmann’s children, who were not in sympathy
with his ideas, strove unavailingly to have the bequest set
aside. They abused the President and The Society. The
President decided, after reflection, that justice must be
done to the family. He offered to sell to them, or to
anyone else, all his interests in the estate for £ 1000
in cash and £ 130 to cover the costs of his expenses.
The family promptly and thankfully accepted his offer.
All joined The Society, and wrote to the papers thank­
ing him for his generous spirit. This unexpected settle­
ment had a strong and marked effect upon public
opinion throughout the country, and brought throngs of
visitors to the President. Everywhere he was asked
to lecture on Theosophy. He revived the Toowoomba
Lodge, and organised the Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide Lodges and appointed officers. Including Wel­
lington (N. Z.) and Hobart (Tasmania), these made the
requisite seven Lodges to form an Australasian Section. This
provision was not pursued, so the Order was annulled, and
the Section was not reorganised until 1894.
It was while in Sydney in the midst of lectures—
here and elsewhere on “ Buddhism and Theosophy —that
278 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
foreboding came to the President of H. P. B.’s passing
away, and this was confirmed by cablegram on 10 May.
He cancelled all plans and set out for London. Mr. Keight-
ley met him at Colombo, and they arrived in England
4 July. He went at once to Avenue Road, where he and
Mrs. Besant visited H. P. B.’s room together and pledged
themselves to be true to the Cause and to each other.
Though H. P. B. had been in better health after the
removal to Avenue Road she was still an invalid, and was
confined to her rooms, but she worked indefatigably, ceasing
only when her physical ailments absolutely prevented work.
The amount of Fheosophical activity at this time seemed
almost incredible in comparison with a few years earlier,
and membership had increased 80 per cent.
During the winter H. P. B. had sent her pupils far
and wide to carry to others the teachings she had transmitted
to them. Bertram Keightley went first to the United States
and then to India. She sent A. Keightley to Australia and
New Zealand, and he returned via America. Mrs. Besant
was sent to various places in England, Ireland and the
Continent, and always drew large audiences. The Press
complimented her by saying she understood “ the beauty of
rhythm in a sentence." Herbert Burrows and Dr. Kingsland
visited towns in Britain. As Mr. Mead said : “ A new
cycle of Theosophical activity seems to have been in­
augurated in the West since the arrival of Mme H. P. Bla-
vatsky in England. If we compare the present state of
affairs with that which existed three years ago, we cannot but
be greatly struck with the enormous progress achieved.
Theosophy which was then, even in name only, known to the
very few and considered by most of them to be some fashion­
able form of mysticism designated ‘ Esoteric Buddhism,’ is
now a familiar word throughout the country and is fast being
recognised as a powerful factor which has to be dealt
with.” 1
1General Report, 1890, p. 37.
H. P. B .S LAST YEARS 279
The Press in Britain and elsewhere gave consider­
able attention to the articles by H. P. B. appearing in
Lucifer.
Knowing that the hour of her passing drew near, H. P. B.
gathered closer round her such of her pupils as circumstances
rendered the most accessible, and began a system of regular
instruction, opening up new lines of thought and study which,
if steadily pursued, would yield fruit indefinitely. She in­
structed them “ regularly one evening each week, . . .
But during other days for some time previous to her depar­
ture, H. P. B. gradually abstracted herself, becoming more
and more reclusive, and, at times, quite inaccessible even to
those intimately around her. Her sitting room, for years past
constantly open to all comers, whether Theosophists or not.
became more and more a place of retreat and solitude for her
and daily more impregnated with her own strong atmosphere
of individuality.” 1
In early April H. P. B. sent Mrs. Besant to America,
appointing her to be her “ agent and representative ”during
her visit, and to carry a greeting to the American Convention,
at which A. Keightley was the delegate for the British Sec­
tion. H. P. B. directed her to call together Lodges and
groups of the E. S. “ and to explain such matters as are neces­
sary,” and requested Mr. Judge “ to give Mrs. Besant all the
aid necessary for this undertaking.” On arrival in America
Mrs. Besant was given considerable space in the newspapers.
She lectured in New York and Brooklyn, and for these
public meetings she spoke mainly on : London, its Wealth
and Poverty ; Dangers menacing Society ; Labour Move­
ments in the Old World ; and What is Theosophy ? She
was hailed as the chief woman orator of the day and as one
of the foremost women of all time.
At the Convention Mrs. Besant spoke on : “ Theosophy
and its Message to the Western World.” She read H. P. B. s
message to Convention, in which H. P. B. thanked the
1 W . R . Old, in T h e T h eo so p h tsl, June, 1893, p. 547.
280 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
American members for their unremitting labours, and said
that the then present cycle would continue till 1897-8 and
would be one of great conflict and continued strain. “ If the
T. S. can hold through it, good ; if not, while Theosophy will
remain unscathed, the Society will perish . . . and the
world will suffer . . . Your position as forerunners of
the sixth sub-race of the fifth root-race has its own special
perils as well as its special advantages. Psychism, with all
its allurements and all its dangers, is necessarily developing
among you, and you must beware lest the psychic outruns
the Manasic and Spiritual development.” H. P. B. drew
attention to the efforts made in England to “ bring to bear
the influence of Hindu on English thought . . . as it is
one of the tasks of the T. S. to draw together the East and
the West, so that each may supply the qualities lacking in
the other and develop more fraternal feelings among nations
so various . . .” She urged the members to “ Be Theo-
sophists, work for Theosophy ! Theosophy first and Theo­
sophy last ; for its practical realisation alone can save the
Western world from that selfish and unbrotherly feeling that
now divides race from race, one nation from the other ;
and from that hatred of class and social considerations
that are the curse and disgrace of so-called Christian
people.” 1
On 6 May Mrs. Besant, Mr. Judge and Dr. and Mrs. J. D.
Buck left New York for England.
On 26 April H. P. B. had fallen ill of influenza and the
doctor took a serious view of her case owing to her chronic
illnesses. Though so sick she asked to be told all that was
going on and about those members of the household who
were absent. She seemed to get a little better, but was
distressingly weak. On the 30th a troublesome quinsy formed
in her throat ; this improved. Then an abcess formed
on the bronchical tubes, and though this disappeared the
weakness increased. On 6 May she partially dressed and
1L u c ife r , June 1891, pp. 343-5.
H. P. B. S LAST YEARS 281
managed to walk into her sitting room, though she said she
felt she was dying, and could not keep up the struggle much
longer. But, knowing how miraculously she had recovered
on previous occasions, no one gave up hope.
On the night of the 6th a change for the worse set inr
but the crisis passed and on the morning of the 7th she
got up, and sat in her large armchair in her sitting-room.
With great effort she rolled a cigarette for Dr. Mennell—the
last she ever made. Finding no ease in bed, she was propped
up with pillows in her chair. At 11 a.m., 8 May, she grew
worse. Around her were Miss Laura Cooper who supported
her head, and C. F. Wright and W. R. Old who knelt beside
her holding her hands. At the last she passed so quietly
that they hardly knew when she ceased to breathe. . .
H. P. B., the heroic “ lonely figure of Light in an age of
cold hard darkness,” had departed.
As it was H. P. B.’s wish that there should not be any
show or parade, her body was taken quietly to the Woking
Crematorium, where all the Officers and the Headquarters-
Staff and friends “ surrounded the flower-decked bier,” while
G. R. S. Mead read an address which had been carefully
prepared by the Staff. The urn that contained her ashes
was reverently carried back to Headquarters and placed in
her own room. . .
The Press of the world had much to say of H. P. B.
and Theosophy, mostly fair ; but a few rehashed the opinion
“ that made Mr. Hodgson notorious, and was so foolishly
endorsed by a learned society.” Some prophesied the dis­
appearance of The Society. Ten of those nearest her, while
they did not propose to answer libels on H. P. B., put it on
record in the Press that they staked their “ honour and re­
putation on the statement that her life was unsullied and her
integrity spotless." Wm. Kingsland wrote : *
*She taught us
Theosophy not as a religion, or a philosophy, or a creed,,
or a working hypothesis, but as a living power in our
lives.” As Col. Olcott said : “ H. P. B.’s enthusiasm was a
282 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
quenchless flame at which all our Theosophists lit their
torches . .
Work at Headquarters went on much as usual.
Mrs. Besant and Mr. Judge together visited several Lodges
to lecture. They agreed, in consultation with the E.S.
Council, that they should together assume full headship of
the E. S., Mr. Judge for America and Mrs. Besant for the
rest of the world, with Headquarters in London.
On 9-10 July the First Annual Convention of the
The Theosophical Society in Europe was held, when
the President-Founder took the chair. Mrs. Besant wel­
comed him and pledged the loyalty of the Conven­
tion to the Cause. The Ionian, Vienna, Swedish,
Dutch-Belgian, French and Spanish, and eleven British
Lodges were represented. The President said the Move­
ment had now “ acquired an individuality of its own,
and that nothing in the world can drag it down.” He
pointed out that the union of “ brothers ” within The
Society had no regard to “ geographical or national
boundaries.”
It was resolved to institute an “ H. P. B. Memorial
Fund ” to publish such works as would promote “ that inti­
mate union between the life and thought of the Orient and
the Occident to the bringing about of which her life was
devoted.’ 1his was eagerly taken up everywhere. The
President-Founder suggested that H. P. B.’s ashes should
be divided between India, London and New York.
Mr. Mead reviewed the work in Sweden, Holland, Bel­
gium, France, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Greece, Austria,
Russia, Germany and Switzerland. A great public meeting
was held in the Portman Rooms, when the Presidentt
Sinnett, Judge, Mrs. Besant, B. Keightley and Burrows all
spoke. On 17 July the President duly chartered the
European Section and Mr. Mead was re-elected General
1H. P. B. In M e m o r y o f H e le n a P e l r o o n a B la u a ts k y , by some of her
Pupils, 1891.
H. P. B.’s LAST YEARS 283
S e c r e t a r y , b u t t h e o f f ic e o f P r e s id e n t w a s n o t r e n e w e d .
T h e r e w a s n o o n e t o fill H . P . B .’s p la c e .
On the 27th the President announced there would
be no change in the general policy of The Theosophical
Society, and its three declared Objects would be strictly
followed out. The Society would be kept neutral ; the un­
trammelled right of private judgment and the absolute
equality of members was reaffirmed and guaranteed ; the
principle of autonomous government in Sections and
Branches within the lines of the Constitution, and of non­
interference by Headquarters, save in extreme cases, was to
be loyally observed.
Col. Olcott inaugurated a League of Theosophical
Workers, with Countess Wachtmeister as President. He
also arranged that Mrs. Besant should go on tour in India in
the ensuing winter. During most of August he was in
France to pursue his studies in hypnotism at the Salpetriere
and Nancy Schools.
On the President’s return to London he went with
Mrs. Besant to hear her farewell address to Secularists, 30
August, for they had voted she should not lecture to them
any more on the subject of Theosophy. She explained
her search for Truth and her work for the Freethought
movement, her meeting with Madame Blavatsky, and
•caused a sensation by impressively declaring she had
herself received letters from a great Teacher in the same
writing as those which H. P. B. had received. The Press
took up and discussed this statement with tremendous
excitement.
From 7 to 10 September the President was in Stockholm,
where he was eagerly welcomed. He had an audience
with the King of Sweden and Norway, Oskar II, and found
him keenly interested in religion and in symbolism.
A f t e r a f e w d a y s in L o n d o n , t h e C o lo n e l le f t fo r
N e w Y o r k , w h e r e , 2 3 S e p t e m b e r , h e w a s m e t b y h is
f a v o u r i t e s is t e r , M r s . M i t c h e ll, a n d o t h e r s o f h is fa m ily , a n d
284 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
by members of The Theosophical Society. He was inter­
viewed by the whole New York press, for this was the first
time he had returned since 1878. He lectured to a big crowd
on the 24th, and many old friends came to hear him ; but
alas, his chairman talked for forty-five minutes ! On the
29th the President left for Sacramento where he spoke on
Theosophy and H. P. B., then went to San Francisco, where
Dr. J. A. Anderson and others made him welcome. Here
he met Judge, and came to an understanding with him
about Theosophical matters, for there were already diffi­
culties concerning the claims Judge had begun to make
with regard to his relations with the Masters. On 8 Octo­
ber the President left for Japan, where, owing to a recent
earthquake shock, there was no one to meet him. Neverthe­
less, at Kobe he induced the Buddhist sects to sign the
Fourteen Points. After a short stay at Colombo, where
Mrs. Marie Musaeus Higgins was put in charge of the Women’s
Educational Society, he went on to Adyar, arriving 12
December. Despite his feet being badly swollen with
rheumatism, he began to prepare for Convention, with the
help of S. V. Edge, who had come out from London to help
him, and to work as Assistant General Secretary of the
Indian Section. Countess Wachtmeister arrived with other
foreign delegates, and the Colonel made her President of a
Women’s Education League to consider the education of
Indian women. He reverently handed over H. P. B.’s ashes
to The Society. They were eventually placed beneath the
statue of her, which, with that of Col. Olcott by her side,
stands in the alcove of the great Hall.
In his Presidential Address Col. Olcott admitted that it
was now his “ belief that if less intolerance towards Christian­
ity had been shown hitherto by the Founders of our Society
and their colleagues, we should have suffered and made to
suffer less, and would today have had a thousand Christian
well-wishers where we have one. We may truly say we
had cruel provocation, but that does not really excuse us for
H. P. B .S LAST YEARS 285
lacking the courage to return good for evil and so proving
untrue to our ideal of brotherood.”
When paying tribute to the memory of H. P. B. and her
greatness, the President expressed his anxiety about and
protested against all attempts “ to create an H. P. B. school,
sect or cult.” The Convention put on record its sense of
irreparable loss in H. P. Blavatsky’s death, and that her
splendid exertions on behalf of humanity entitled her to be
“ ever held in honour by all true Theosophists.”
ST O R M Y Y E A R S
“ I have been taught to lean upon myself alone, to look to my
Higher Self as my best teacher, best guide, best example and only saviour..
I was taught that no one could or ever would attain to the perfect know­
ledge save upon those lines ; and so long as you keep me in my office, 1
shall proclaim this as the basis, the only basis and the palladium of the
Society.”
—H. S. O lcott, 1891.
1892
T he President felt inspired to begin writing Old Diary Leaves,.
16 January, partly to put on record the early history of The
Society, and partly because he felt he must do something to
prevent a sect “ springing up around H. P. B. and her litera­
ture.”1 A new shock and trial now descended upon him. On
the 19th Mr. E. T. Sturdy arrived with a “ fateful message.”
In the previous year Mrs. Besant had announced her
“ sudden sailing for America, 18 November, upon important
business and rest.”' A programme was hurriedly arranged.
There were three reasons for this visit: (1) To secure a
little rest and recreation ; (2) To lecture a few times in New
York, and other towns ; (3) Chiefly, to consult with the
leading Theosophists of America on the affairs of The Society.
She conferred with Judge and other responsible officers
about information she had received concerning Col. Olcott,
which, if true, rendered him, she thought, unfit to remain
President. After anxious consultations, a statement was
drawn up to put before the President, and a demand made
1O ld D i a r y L e a v e s, IV, p. 425.
- T h e P a th , December, 1891, p. 296.
STORMY YEARS 287
for his resignation. To ensure strict privacy, it was decided
to send the statement personally with Mr. Sturdy to Adyar.
As Col. Olcott points out in Old Diary Leaves, Mr. Judge’s
influence was now paramount in London, and he was
regarded as the greatest mystic among the members since
H. P. B. Mr. C. F. Wright had gone to Australia to influ­
ence members there in his favour, thought the President, who
felt that every possible thing was being done to undermine
his prestige and reduce his position to that of a figurehead.
He decided to resign. He sent his resignation to Judge, sent
Mrs. Besant a copy, and began to take all the necessary
measures to transfer his authority to Judge as Vice-President.
He took some of the old and trusted members in India
into his confidence. They promptly and strongly opposed
his resignation, and strove to make him reconsider his
decision. He sent an explanatory letter to the Sections
and to Indian Lodges, with a copy of his resignation.
Protests immediately poured in. Some of his friends asked
to be allowed to support him for the rest of his life. He made
preparations to live in Ootacamund, for he was fully deter­
mined to vacate the Presidentship at the earliest possible
moment. He invited his sister, Mrs. Mitchell, and her
daughter Louise (whom he wished to adopt), to come and live
there with him. Prince Harisingh said that the Colonel should
not want for anything so long as he, his “ son," was alive.
On 10 February the President clairaudiently received a -
message from his Master to the effect: (a) That a messenger
from Him would be coming and that I must be ready to go
and meet him ; (¿) That the relationship between Himself,
H. P. B., and myself was unbreakable ; (c) That I must be
ready for a change of body, as my present one had nearly s
served its purpose ; (d) That I had not done well in trying
to resign prematurely ; I was still wanted at my post, and
must be contented to remain indefinitely, until He gave me
permission to abandon it; (e) That the time was not ripe for
carrying out my scheme of a great International Buddhist
288 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
League, and that the Maha-Bodhi Society, which, I had
intended to use as a nucleus of the scheme, would be a
failure ; 1 (/) That all the stories of Him having cast me off
and withdrawn His protection were false, for He kept
constant watch over me, and would never desert me.'
The President at once wrote to Mr. Judge advising him
of the Master’s wishes, but not withdrawing his resignation,
as he wished to test opinion. Pending this, he asked Judge
to come to Adyar as Acting President, but he would not
consent to him being both Acting President of The Society
and General Secretary of the American Section, as that
would give him three votes out of five on the General
Council. To this Judge cabled, 2 April, that he would give
up the Secretaryship as soon as possible, and therefore the
Colonel need not be anxious about the removal of Head­
quarters. But the President was puzzled that letters came
from New York discussing the details of his retirement; and
Judge besought the Colonel to nominate him “ President
for life.” 1
The Colonel took legal advice as to the effect of his early
retirement on the business of The Society, and found the
position serious. He cabled Judge that he could not retire by
1 May, as certain legal formalities concerning Adyar and the
Queensland properties had first to be complied with. Judge
cabled again to the Colonel to stay in office as he had
important news from “ The Lodge,” and there would be a
great change in his own policy from 24 April. He cabled
again on the 25th, that he could not leave his post in America
and the Colonel must stop in office till July. The Colonel re­
plied by cable that he had decided to stay in office, and issued,
to Judge, 27 April, an Executive Order to that effect. One of
the reasons why Judge felt he could not easily leave America
1O ld D ia r y L ea v es, IV, p. 429. This Society failed for a time, but is
now flourishing, with a great and growing centre at Sarnath, near Benares.
- Ibid.
3D ia r y . See also O l d D i a r y L ea v es, IV, p. 431.
STORMY YEARS 289
was the purchase of a new Headquarters, 144 Madison
Avenue, giving ample room for the development of the work
he had so much at heart.
At the American Convention held in Chicago,
24 April, when Mr. Judge was re-elected General Sec­
retary, and where Mr. Mead was the representative
from the European Section, important resolutions were
passed : (1) That as the votes of all the Branches were
unanimously in favour of \V. Q. Judge as successor to the
office of President, the Convention confirmed and ratified
these votes, and (2) declared that Mr. Judge was its choice for
President to succeed Col. Olcott. Col. Olcott was requested
to revoke his resignation, and the Section declared that when
the office of President should become vacant, his successor
should be Mr. Judge, who should hold the office for life : their
choice for Vice-President, should the office become vacant,was
Mr. Bertram Keightley. The European and Indian Sections
were invited to co-operate in endeavouring to carry out the
letter and spirit of these resolutions. This plan would, if
followed, have secured to Mr. Judge a sweeping majority of
votes in The Society.
A certain amount of opinion had formed that Mr. Judge
was issuing letters purporting to be in the handwriting
of a Master, with His signature, and some had upon
them the impress of the “ seal” bought so long before at
Delhi by Col. Olcott, because he thought it resembled the
Master M’s cryptogram. Judge denied having done so. A little
later he asked the Colonel not to force an enquiry into
“ bogus letters ” and the “ Lahore brass ” he., the Delhi seal.1
On 8 May the first anniversary of H. P. B.’s passing
was held. In accordance with her expressed wish that her
friends should on that day assemble at the Headquarters of
The Society and read a chapter of The Light o f Asia and
extracts from the Bhagavad Gita, the President requested that
1Judge to Col. Olcott, 27 Oct. 1892 ; see “ Case against W.Q. Judge,’*
p. 56.
19
290 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
this day of remembrance be known as “ White Lotus Day.”
He desired that all Branches throughout the world should
meet annually on this date, and, in some dignified way, ‘‘ex­
press the feeling of loving regard for her who brought us the
chart of the climbing Path which leads to the summit of
knowledge.”
Apparently, neither at the American Convention in
Chicago nor at the European Convention in London, 14 and
15 July—where there was a representative gathering—1
did Mr. Judge who was the delegate from America reveal
the fact that the President had advised him of the Master’s
message, and that he was still awaiting the clear indication of
the members’ wishes. Throughout Europe the Branches had
proceeded to vote for a new President, and, as they were un­
animously in favour of Mr. Judge at the Convention in London,
his election as “ new President was carried by resolution
. . . with hearty cheers, as were also the votes of confi­
dence in the retiring President-Founder, the declarations of
gratitude for his untiring services and the appreciation of his
unselfish life-work . . .”
Upon receiving these resolutions, the President deter­
mined, 17 August, to announce his retention of office, and so
wrote to Judge, sending his letter this time, with copies,
through Mr. Mead. He announced the revocation of his
resignation, and explained that his restoration to health
enabled him “ to obey his Guru’s wishes by resuming
active service.” On 9 September the President received
a letter from Mead explaining that the Master’s orders
had been kept from them, and exposing the whole situation.
Mead wrote “ the Order you quote from is sufficient, and if
we had had the ghost of an idea about such an Order, the
Resolutions passed would have been different.”'
1Present among others were Mme P. Meuleman, Mrs. E. Windust
and Herr Fricke, Holland ; W. Q. Judge, America ; Senor Xifré, Spain ;
Mme Z. Cassavetti, Messieurs E. Coulomb and Vescop, France ; Herr
F. Eckstein and Count Leiningen, Austria.
2G. R. S. Mead to Col. Olcott, 9 Sept., 1892.
STORMY YEARS 291
During October and November Col. Olcott visited
Chittagong and Akyab, urged the value of the Maha-Bodhi
Society and collected funds for it, and inspired students to
work for their Buddhist faith. He went on to Rangoon
and organised the same Society there also. When
he returned, 5 December, he signed deeds assigning all
his real and personal property to The Theosophical
Society.
Walter R. Old arrived in Adyar, December, and after
long consultation with him and others, the President conclud­
ed that Judge was deeply at fault. The records were sub­
mitted to Judge Khandalavala, who counselled the Colonel to
prosecute the case against Judge.
On the 26th and 27th the Annual Convention took place,
■and the many reports showed how pleased the Theosophical
world was that Col. Olcott had retained office, how strong
was now the stream of Theosophy, and how numerous and
varied the fields it irrigated.
Several important books had been published during the
year : A Theosophical Glossary, a posthumous work by
H. P. B., rich in occult information ; The Seven Principles o f
Man, by Mrs. Besant, the first of the important series of seven
Manuals on Theosophy. Over 400 copies of this book were
sold in two days and a second edition was issued. This was
followed by one on Reincarnation, also by Mrs. Besant, of
which 2,000 copies were sold in less than a fortnight, neces­
sitating another edition of 3,000. A third edition of The Secret
Doctrine, (then out of print,) was being prepared and
revised by Mrs. Besant and Mr. Mead, who asked for lists
of errata, etc.
In India, Europe, Britain and America zealous workers
had come forward who were making lecture-tours and
interesting an ever-growing public. As Col. Olcott said in
his Presidential address : “ Our cause is good, our ideal high,
our work brings us present joy and future hope, and we are
co-workers with the Greatest Sons of Man.”
292 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
1893
The President left, 8 January, for Calcutta, with
Mr. Edge, on business connected with the acquirement of
Buddhist Shrines to be under Buddhist control. The Viceroy’s
Private Secretary referred him to the Bengal Government,
who referred him to the Mahant (priest in charge), a Hindu,
who controlled the sacred Bo-Tree and Shrine property at
Buddha Gaya. The Colonel’s efforts were not successful.
They went expressly to Delhi to seek out the maker of the
seal whichM r. Judge had impressed on some of his “ Mahatma
Letters.” They found the man had died, but his brother identi­
fied the seal. At Allahabad both spoke, also at Bankipur,
a Branch noted for its fine members, among them Purnendu
Narain Sinha, M .A., a capable writer on Theosophy and
Hinduism. In Benares they were met by men whose names
-shine in the Indian Section, and in the literary world of India
—Ganganath Jha, Mokshada Das Mitra, Bhagavan Das. The
Colonel went to Sarnath, where at that time was only a stupa
and a desolation of old bricks, and found that the title of the
property was vested in the Government. He opened negotia­
tions for its transference to the Maha Boahi Society. In
Benares, the members had forgotten to secure a hall for his
lecture on Theosophy, so he spoke in a Goshala, cattle-shelter.
Then followed visits to six towns. On returning to Calcutta,
11 March, the President spoke to a packed house on “ Occult­
ism, True and False.” In Madras, the problem again arose
as to what to do about Mr. Judge, and it seemed necessary, for
lack of connecting evidence, to postpone action.
Information having come from Dharmapala that the
Buddha Gaya village and temple could be secured for
Rs. 80,000 the Colonel hurriedly visited, 6-12 April,
Rangoon, Calcutta and Bankipur to try to find the money ;
1Excavation hasbrought many treasures to light. There is now a new
Temple, a large guest house, a line museum, and the peaceful spirit of
the Buddha broods over it all, for this was the place where He
preached His first sermon.
STORMY YEARS 293
but he did not succeed. On his return he received
£18 from Bouton, royalties on Isis Unveiled, and promptly
shared the money between Paris, Stockholm and Amsterdam
Lodges for propaganda. H. P. B. had, in her Will (dated
1885), left him all her “ property ” in both Isis Unveiled and
The Secret Doclrine, also her books and furniture.
On 23 May the President drafted Executive Orders
deputing Judge, as Vice-President, to represent him officially
at the World Parliament of Religions to be held 15 and
16 September in Chicago. Mrs. Besant was deputed as
special delegate to speak on behalf of The Theosophic-
al Society. He arranged for Dharmapala to represent
the Ceylon Buddhists and drafted his address for him ;
and for Prof. G. N. Chakravarti to be the delegate for
Hinduism.
In The Path, August 1891, appeared a brief article
signed “ Jasper Niemand.” The suggestion was that the few
words which prefaced it were from “ the Master of whom
H. P. B. was the reverent pupil. Attested by his real signature
and seal. . . .” 1 Many suspected that “ Jasper Niemand ”
was Mr. Judge’s nom-de-plume. Scepticism finally found
expression. This drew from Judge a statement of his own
position and beliefs, in Lucifer, in ‘ An Interesting Letter.”2
He faced his critics and, as to the Society, wrote “ that
when we come to examine the work and the founda­
tion of its policy, I find it perfectly proper for me to
assert, as I do, in accordance with my own knowledge and
belief, that our true progress lies in fidelity to Masters as
ideals and facts. . . .” No one could deny him either the
privilege of asserting his “ belief in those Beings ” ; or his
belief that “ a constant reliance on Masters as such ideals
and facts—or either—will lead the T. S. on to greater
work. . . .” He declared he belonged “ to that class of persons
in The Theosophical Society who, out of their own experi­
ence, know that the Masters exist and actually help the T.S.”
' T h e P a t h , August, p. 137. - April, 1888, pp. 101-4.
294 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
He claimed that he should be allowed to go his way making
this proclamation, while those who thought differently should
go their way. He explained that though he had not written
the letter complained of, yet he fully approved of it. But it
was suspected that the message in The Path had been written
by Judge himself, and by him attributed to a Master.
Both S. V. Edge and W. R. Old, who had been in con­
sultation with the President on the problem of Judge’s
claims, challenged his views, which they took as a declaration
of a creed which might lead to dogmatism. They said there
ought not to be any “ policy ” and that “ progress for the T.S.
does not lie ‘ in fidelity to the Masters as ideals and facts,’
however it may be in the case of an individual, but in fidelity
to the Cause, which binds us together, and to that ideal of
spiritual freedom which, as a body, we are striving to realise.” 1
N. D. Khandalavala expressed himself along the same lines in
an article entitled “ Theosophy in the West, the Tendency
towards Dogmatism."' These articles led to protests to the
writers from Mrs. Besant,3 and to Col. Olcott for publishing
them, and an intimation that the United States would cut off
financial aid to Headquarters if Edge and Old remained at
Adyar. Letters began to come from the U.S. expressing
discontent with Judge, which the Colonel regarded as a
“ healthy sign of reaction.” 1 He wrote to Judge, 28
September, expressing his candid disbelief in his “ pretended
intimacy with the Mahatmas.”'’
Col. Olcott approached Countess Wachtmeister to have
his book Old Diary Leaves published by the H. P. B. Press in
London, but she said she would do so only if he expunged
the portions about H. P. B. which she did not like. To this
he would not consent, so it was published by G. Putnam’s
Sons, London, 1895.
1T h e T h e o s o p h is t, July, 1893. p. 606.
‘ I b id ., p. 623, c l seq.
4D ia r y , 30 August.
D ia r y , 23 July.
s D ia r y , 28 Sept.
STORMY YEARS 295
In America, the Parliament of Religions took place,
15-16 September. There had been obstacles to overcome.
Within the Parliament various organisations held their own
Congresses, and, to prepare one for The Theosophical Society
the American Section made Mr. Geo. E. Wright, Chicago,
Chairman of a Committee on Organisation. Mr. Judge had,
1892, suggested the idea of representation. Mr. Wright
immediately obtained an interview with the President of
the World’s Congress Auxiliary, Mr. C. C. Bonney. After
some delays The Society’s application was referred to the
Psychic Committee, of which Dr. E. Coues was Chairman !
Mr. Wright explained the position and Mr. Bonney, appre­
ciating the difficulty, recalled the application. Mr. Wright
was then referred to the Moral and Social Reform Com­
mittee, whose Chairman proved to be Dr. Coues’ sister !
The next reference was to the Religious Committee, but this
too came to nothing. Suddenly, the Religious Committee
decided to grant The Theosophical Society a separate
Congress of its own. Wright carried the news to the T.S.
Convention in New York, and Judge carried it to the Euro­
pean Convention ; and “ to his untiring zeal at and from
this stage of the proceedings was due much of the enormous
success which attended the sessions of the Congress.” The
Committee managed to secure a hall holding 500. When the
time came, so dense was the crowd that they moved into a
hall holding 1500 ; in five minutes this was packed. At their
regular sessions they carried on two overflow meetings.
Orthodox ministers were astounded. The managers of the
Parliament offered them a Hall holding 4000 for an extra
Sunday night meeting, when every seat was occupied and
hundreds stood in the aisles and along the walls. As Judge
was speaking the chairman of the Religious Department, a
Presbyterian minister, interrupted him and said that owing to
the change of halls there was scarcely any audience where
the Presbyterian Congress was convened. He surmised a
mistake had been made and requested all Presbyterians to
296 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
rise and pass into the other hall. No one moved. Judge
resumed his discourse.1
The President sent a message through Mr. Judge, to the
Congress where he, as Vice-President, T.S., took the chair.
Mrs. Besant, Prof. Chakravarti, Mr. Judge, Dharmapala,
Dr. Buck, Mrs. Cooper-Oakley,' Dr. J. A. Anderson and
Claude F. Wright, were the principal speakers. “ The real
Parliament of Religions was in fact the Theosophical Con­
gress.” After the Congress the visitors went on tours to
different towns, and Mrs. Besant visited Canada as well.
The President went to Ceylon, 30 October, to arrange
for Mrs. Besant’s tour. She and Countess Watchmeister
arrived, 9 November, and Mrs. Besant lectured in Kandy,
Colombo, Galle and Panadure, with crowds everywhere. The
Buddhists declared their gratitude for the magnanimous exer­
tions of The Theosophical Society on their behalf. The
party went on to India, arriving in Tuticorin on the 16th, and
visited fourteen towns.1 Mrs. Besant’s chief subjects were :
Life after Death ; Karma ; India Past and Present (“ in a style
that made us all weep”) ; India’s Mission ; Materialism and
Science ; The Insufficiency of Materialism ; Hinduism and
Theosophy ; Theosophy and Modern Science ; etc. As she
moved from town to town the audiences grew larger and
larger, enthusiasm mounted, and there was a rush of new mem­
bers. The party arrived in Adyar, 20 December, for Conven­
tion, the largest held so far. Mrs. Besant’s four lectures were on
“ The Building of the Kosmos.” The Anniversary was at
Victoria Hall, Madras, where a monster audience assembled
and was addressed by Raghunath Row, N. D. Khandalavala,
1From the account by Geo. E. Wright in T h e P a t h , Nov. 1893,
pp. 239-45.
"Who had been touring in Australia.
1It was while at Trichinopoly, 23 November, that confirmation came
to Col. Olcott that Mrs. Besant was the “ messenger " for whom he had
been advised to look. D ia r y , 23 November, and O l d D i a r y L ea v es, V,
p. 94.
STORMY YEARS 297
Purnendu N. Sinha, Countess Wachtmeister, Mrs. Besant and
Col. Olcott.1
In his Presidential address Col. Olcott recited the list of
some of those competent speakers who now began to cover
the world with a net-work of lecturing, thus meeting the
needs of the growing public interest in Theosophy. In
India : the President, Mr. Keightley, Rai B. K. Lahiri,
Bhavani Shankar, C. Kotayya. In the United States :
Mr. Judge, Dr. Allen Griffiths and Mr. C. F. Wright ; in
England, and Europe Mr. Mead, Mrs. Besant and Mr. Kings-
land ; In Australia Mrs. Cooper-Oakley, and in smaller tours
many others.
Publications this year had included : The revised edition
of The Secret Doctrine ; a revised edition of The K ey to
Theosophy, under the direction of Mr. Mead, with corrections
of mistakes intimated by H. P. B., omission of controversial
passages, and the Glossary carefully edited and corrected.
Death and After, Through Storm to Peace, (her autobio­
graphy), by Annie Besant. The Ocean o f Theosophy (two
editions), by W. Q. Judge ; also many pamphlets, and 32
translations into nine languages.
1894
On New Year’s day Mrs. Besant lectured on India to
about 6000 enthusiastic people in the open air on the Madras
Esplanade. There were no loud-speakers in those days. On the
' The Christian Literature Society, Madras, issued a 4000 edition of
an unworthy booklet “ suggested by the visit to India of Mrs- Besant.”
It was entitled: “The Theosophic Craze: Its History: the great
Mahatma Hoax ; How Mrs. Besant was befooled and deposed ; its
attempted Revival or The Exploded Superstitions of the Middle Ages.”
It contained a collection of unkind things about Colonel Olcott and
H.P.B., and belittled their work. It reiterated the missionary attack of
1884, and quoted the infamous S. P. R. Report. It averred that
Mrs. Besant’s object in coming to India “was to persuade credulous
Hindus to accept Theosophy as their religion.” It gave its own version
•of the Judge Case, declared Theosophy to be a return to exploded super­
stition, and ended with a eulogy of Christianity.
298 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
7th the President, Mrs. Besant and others sailed for Calcutta
where several hundreds greeted them, among them many
notable public men—there were flags and flowers and crowds.
From this point onwards through about 22 towns,
ranging as far north as Lahore, and to Bombay and Surat
in the West, Mrs. Besant lectured almost daily, sometimes
twice a day, to audiences numbering anything between
500 and 6000 ; she granted innumerable interviews, and
held other meetings.
At Benares the leading Pandits expressed their strong
disapproval of the education of virgin widows, but approved
of Col. Olcott’s boys’ societies and schools and Sanskrit
libraries. At Sarnath the Colonel commented that Mrs. Besant
was the intended resuscitator of Hinduism and he was the
reviver of Buddhism. In Ludhiana enthusiasm ran to proces­
sions round the bazaars, and here Mrs. Besant could not
speak for the noise of the crowd at her lecture. At Jullunder
Countess Wachtmeister received “ Orders” to go to San
Francisco to attend the American Convention. In Lahore
Durga Prasad, President of the Arya Samaj, joined The
Society. On her return to England Mrs. Besant toured the
Lodges, lecturing extensively from 6 April to 25 July. She
went to the Stockholm Convention and visited Paris.
Her main subjects were : Masters as Facts and Ideals, and
Theosophy and Its Teachings.
During the Indian tour, Col. Olcott formed Hindu Boys’
Societies in many places and raised subscriptions for them.
Countess Wachtmeister was so pleased with the success of his
efforts to aid Hindu youth that she founded a journal for
them called Arya Bala Bodhini, January, 1895. It was taken
over by Mrs. Besant and transformed into the Central Hindu
College Magazine in 1900.
The problems arising in connection with Mr. Judge were
growing accute. When Mrs. Besant arrived in Adyar, 20
December, 1893, she was called by the President into consul­
tation with himself, Countess Wachtmeister, Sturdy, Edge.
STORMY YEARS 299
Old, and Judge Khandalavala.1 After many anxious talks,,
and at the President’s request, Mrs. Besant undertook
to formulate demands that the accusations against Judge
“ with reference to certain letters and in the alleged
writings of the Mahatmas ” should be dealt with by a
Committee, as provided by the Rules which had been
specially altered at the Convention (1893), to meet this or
any similar case. They provided for a Judicial Committee
“ which, by a three-fourths majority vote,” could deprive the
President or Vice-President “ of office at any time for
cause shown.”
A copy of the demand for investigation was posted
7 February, to Mr. Judge. Mrs. Besant also sent him copies
of all the papers upon which she based her statements,
an action to which the President strongly objected. In an
additional letter he gave Judge the option of retiring from office
and leaving him as President to make public explanation, or
of having a Judicial Committee, and making the proceedings
public. This Presidential notice was taken exception to by
Judge, Mead, and others. They thought it precipitate.
Mr. Judge denied all the statements and decided upon
London as the meeting place of the Judicial Committee.
Mrs. Besant had, meanwhile, 12 February received a cable­
gram from Judge asking her to take over the whole E. S. T.,
and issue a notice to that effect.' The President hoped to
keep the matter private until the Committee had met, dealt
with the charges, and rendered its verdict, which would then
have been officially promulgated. Judge misunderstood the
demand for enquiry to be the first step in the Judicial
Enquiry, as the President had not thought to mark it “ Private.”
Deeming it to be breach of the Constitution, Judge protested
vehemently to the members in a public circular of which 5000
were distributed all over the world.'1 Mrs. Besant’s name was
not mentioned as having framed the charges, so members
1 D ia r y , 20, and 22 December, 1893. : Mrs. Besant’s D ia r y , 1894.
3O l d D i a r y L e a v e s , V, p. 180.
300 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
thought the President was the author of them, and at the
same time intended to sit as Chairman of the Tribunal.
This not only caused bad feeling against him, but con­
siderably closed up the ranks behind Mr. Judge in America,
Europe and England.
Before leaving for England in May, the President
examined Judge’s letters to him over a number of years.
Many of them are still in the files at Adyar, including those
with the Delhi “ seal ” on them. The Colonel commented
on the fact that Judge had consistently complained, even as
late as 1888, of neglect by the Masters, from Whom he
had received nothing, and had said so frankly.
In San Francisco the American Convention was held
22 April, and took upon itself to declare the suspension of
the Vice-President null and void, and as transcending the
President’s powers according to the Constitution.
In 1892 Judge had reminded Col. Olcott that he had
some of the original Minutes and Records of The Society,
though the Colonel had often asked him for them, but he
kept them, on one excuse or another.1 He now began to
question I7 November as the date of the formation of The
Society, preferring 8 November when the first minutes were
signed. He had a fair record of the meetings up to the time
of the departure of H. P. B. and Col. Olcott for India. He
tried to get the old Roll Book from Newton, who clung to it
as a relic. He admitted that after the establishment of
Headquarters at Bombay the general minutes v/ent on from
there.' He desired his office of Vice-President to be for life
or for 10 years, not three, as was suggested by the British
Seetion.1
Then came the Resolutions at San Francisco and
London, due to the suppression of Col. Olcott’s advice to
Judge that at his Master’s wish he had decided to carry on.
1Letter to Col. Olcott, 4 March, 1892.
- I b i d ; 10 April, 1892. 3Ib id., 11July, 1892.
STORMY YEARS 301
In an article in Lucifer 1Judge, writing as “ Gen. Secretary of
the American Section of the T. S. and its Vice-President,”
suggested there was a crisis in India because the Brahmans
were getting the idea that the “ T. S. is merely an engine for
the propagation of Buddhism . . . and are arguing
against the T. S. . This was because of Col. Olcott’s
great interest in Buddhism.
In The Theosophisl" Judge asked why the Masters thought
fit “ to start the Society in America and not in India. . . .
It was . . . because of the purely ‘ intellectual activity ’
and spiritual pride of the Hindu. . . Judge recalled
that a Master had written to Sinnett that he had had to fly
“ from the vile and heavy atmosphere produced by the physical
conditions of his people.” There was much uneasiness
everywhere, and strong opinions were forming both for and
against all these points.
The President, after discussing the Judge case in London
with several members, went to Berlin to make plans for a new
Lodge. On 5 July the General Council met in London with
Mr. Judge present, also Dr. Buck and Mrs. Besant. The Coun­
cil was very small, consisting of the President, Bertram Keight-
ley, Mr. Mead and Mr. Judge : General Secretaries of India,
Europe and America respectively. In a letter read by the
President, Judge argued he was never elected Vice-President.
The President recited the facts that proved he was truly so,
and ruled out his argument.1 Judge then contended that the
alleged offences were private and not official matters, and the
Constitution provided only for trial of official misconduct.
The Council agreed that the point was well taken, and
further, that the Judicial Committee had no jurisdiction to try
him as Vice-President upon the charges as alleged.
The Judicial Committee of tw elve1 met 10 July, and
likewise Resolved that the charges were not subject to its
1April, 1893, p. 143. 2Sept, 1893, p. 724.
3Old Diary Leaves, V, p. 183
4Sinnett, Buck, Mead, Firth, Pryse, Burrows, Hargrove, A. Keightley,
Sturdy, B. Keightley, Kingsland, and Col. Olcott in the chair.
302 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
jurisdiction, not being official ; and that any statement as to
the truth or otherwise of them would involve a declaration as
to the existence of Mahatmas, which would violate the spirit
of neutrality and the unsectarian nature and Constitution of
The Society.1
The European Convention' was held, 12 July, in
London, when Mrs. Besant pointed out that for some
years a “ mass of accusations” against Mr. Judge had
been circulating—“ ranging from simple untruthfulness to
deliberate and systematic forgery of the handwriting of Those
Who to some of us are most sacred.” These “ accusations ”
finally found expression in an article in The Theosophist by
Edge and Old.' Some Indian members said the Section
would secede if Mr. Judge became President with these
charges left unexplained. She was asked to intervene,
privately, so that when exaggerations were weeded out, what
remained of valid complaint might be put an end to without
public controversy. Before this could be done silence was
broken, and distorted versions circulated. She had failed to
prevent a public Committee of Enquiry. She then took upon
herself the onus of formulating the charges. The decisions
of the Committee left the main issue undecided. Other pro­
posals to form Committees had failed, so she had suggested
another way, since there was the vital charge that Mr. Judge
issued letters in the script of the Master M., which were not
written or precipitated by Him.
Mrs. Besant charged Mr. Judge with giving a “ mislead­
ing material form to the messages received psychically from
the Masters in various ways, without acquainting the reci­
pients with this fact.” 1 She believed he received messages
for other people, leaving the person wrongly to assume that
it was a direct precipitation or writing by the Master Himself
— r.e., “ that it was done through Mr. Judge, but done by the
1O ld D ia r y L ea v es, V, pp. 190-4.
2Col. Olcott called this the “ Fourth European Convention."
3July, 1893, p. 606. ' O ld D ia r y L ea v es, V, p. 200.
STORMY YEARS 303
Master.” She held this method to be illegitimate. She
believed Mr. Judge wrote with his own hand, consciously or
automatically, in the script adopted by the Master. She had
believed the messages she had herself received in such script
to be authentic, and had publicly so stated.1 Though she
believed in the gist of the messages, she now knew they
were done by Mr. Judge.
In Old Diary Leaves Col. Olcott appended a note point­
ing out that he had requested Mrs. Besant to formulate the
charges, in order to bring the matter to light, as the widely
current suspicions were injuring The Society.
Mr. Judge again denied the charges of forging. He
admitted he had received letters from Mahatmas and assert­
ed their genuineness, and that he was an agent of Theirs, but
had never sought to induce that belief in others. He denied
4‘ the right of anyone to say that they know or can prove the
non-genuineness of such messages to or through me unless
they are able to see on that plane.” He had done his best
to report “ correctly and faithfully such messages ” as he
thought he had received for transmission, and had never tried
to deceive therewith any person or persons whatever. The
Master had sent him a message in 1893 thanking him for his
work and exertions in the Theosophical field, ending with the
sage advice to guard himself against the failings and follies
of his lower nature. . . .'
Having heard all these statements the meeting resolved
that with this adjustment and “ final settlement ” between
Mrs. Besant and Mr. Judge it hoped the matter was buried
and forgotten.
This result did not satisfy anybody but Mr. Judge and
his friends.
As Mrs. Besant was under legal contract to make a lecture
tour in Australia and New Zealand, she left on 25 July.
1T h e C a s e a g a in s t IV. Q. J u d g e , p. 1I.
- B y M a ster's D ir e c tio n , by W. Q. Judge, p. 6.
3Summarised from O l d D ia r y L e a v e s , V. pp. 173-209.
304 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
Before leaving she put into Miss A. J. Willsons’ hands
certain material on the Judge affair for use in case of need.1
After a tour round some of the northern Lodges in
England, and a visit to Dublin, the President left for
India, 24 August. He officially adopted the scheme of
an International Correspondence League. H. P. B. had
done this work as Corresponding Secretary, but it had
been resolved not to choose a successor to that office. He
appointed Mrs. Cooper-Oakley as “ Federal Correspondent,”
with two assistants, to answer enquiries from strangers or
unattached members not yet included in a Chartered Section.
Under this arrangement she became “ a Federal official, a
member of the Presidential Staff.”
On his return to Adyar the Colonel found the first Pariah
School in full swing. It had been opened during his absence
and under his instructions. Earlier in the year he had
secured a plot of land and advanced the money for a build­
ing, and to pay a teacher. The School was to be under
the management of the Pariahs themselves. The schools
for Pariahs grew in number, and all but one were later taken
over by the Government. The name Pariah (untouchable)
was changed to Panchama (5th caste or outside of caste) and
recently to Harijan (people or children of Hari—a name of
God). The schools were at first supported and managed by
Theosophists, and the remaining one, retained in memory of
Col. Olcott and named after him, is well and efficiently
organised.
To his dismay the President learned, 31 September,
that W. R? Old had decided, without his consent, to publish
all the Judge documents, including all private papers,
in a London newspaper. Mr. Old held the offices of
Treasurer and Recording Secretary at Adyar, and in the
latter capacity had charge of all the original documents which
were to have been laid before the Judicial Committee.
Mr. Old resigned his offices as a protest against the “ official
1 See S h o u ld M r . J u d g e R e s i g n , p. 6.
STORMY YEARS 305
statement with regard to the enquiries held upon the charges
preferred against the Vice-President of the T.S.” He took it
upon himself to give the documents to the Westminster
Gazette, which published them in October, with caustic
editorial comments that the leaders had condoned Mr. Judge’s
frauds ; and that Mrs. Besant had hushed up the matter for
the sake of advantages, monetary and otherwise, that were
to be obtained by belonging to The Society.
On 4 November Mr. Judge issued an E.S. statement,
which was made public. In this document, called B y
Master s Direction, he claimed to be a founder of the E.S., and
that it was founded on the exact lines of his sugges­
tions ; that Mrs. Besant was no more than a Recorder, not a
Teacher in the E.S., such as he was ; that he had had a large
body of Instructions given to him since 1875. He was “ order­
ed ” to stay in the movement and help. Mr. Judge charged
Mrs. Besant with being under the influence of “ Dark Powers,”
and with having lent herself to the plot of accusing him,
supported by certain Brahmans who desired, through her, to
control The Society, even to the extent of showing up H. P. B.
as a fraud and forger. He cited Prof. G. N. Chakravarti as
the agent inciting Mrs. Besant to all this, and that the plot
really was to have Col. Olcott resign, Judge cut off, and
Mrs. Besant made President. By not resigning he had spoilt
the plot. He declared the Master said it was not Their
desire to turn The Theosophical Society into a solely Eastern
movement, nor have us run after the present East and its
exoteric teachers. They confirmed, he said, that there were
not in India any Initiates teaching people. The cycle required
work in the West for the benefit of the world. The new Race
was being prepared in the West and to divert thought back to
“ the Teachers of today in the East would be dangerous.
Many Initiates had remained in the West as Nirmanakayas 1
1Mr. Judge considered himself a Nirmanakaya—at that time thought
to be one who, having refused Nirvana, had retained all the principles
except the physical body, and who occupied a body vacated by its Ego.
He thought this had happened to himself when he had a serious illness at
20
306 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
to help its destiny, and both East and West were bene­
fited.
A distinct object, said Mr. Judge, that H. P. B. had in
view “ I will now, on authority of Master, tell you. . . . An
object unrevealed by H. P. B. to anyone else that 1know of,
but possibly hinted at. All her vast work in the West
. . . was towards this end, so that when she comes again as
Messenger . . . much of the preparatory work should have
been done. It is the establishment in the West o f a great seat o f
learning where shall be taught and explained and demonstrated
the great theories o f man and nature which she brought forward to
us, where Western Occultism, as the essence combined out o f all
others, shall be taught. ” 1
Mr. Judge concluded : “ I resume in full all functions
and powers given me by H. P. B. and that came to me in
orderly succession after her passing, and declare myself sole
head of the E. S. T. . . . under authority given me by
Master and H. P. B., and under Master’s direction, I declare
Mrs. Besant’s headship in the E. S. at an end.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Besant's Australian and New Zealand
tour had been an immense success, and gave a strong
impetus to the Theosophical Movement in both countries.
While in New Zealand she had received a telegram about
the exposure in the newspapers, which she did not see till
she reached Colombo, 18 December. She decided to reply at
seven years of age. Writing to Mrs. Besant, 25 April, 1891, after her
first visit to the United States, Mr. Judge said, “ 1am not in my own body
and am perfectly aware of it. It is borrowed.” By this time Mr. Judge
was greatly influenced by Mrs. Katherine A. Tingley, a well-known pro­
fessional medium, who afterwards claimed to be responsible for the
development of his plans.
1By Master's Direction, pp. 10, 11. 3 Ibid, p. 12.
Five of the fourteen members of the E. S. Council in London
became Judge’s Council : Mrs. A. L. Cleather, one of the number, and
at first a devoted adherent of Mr. Judge, expressed the opinion that it
was under Mrs. Tingley's influence he began the campaign in favour of
Western Occultism, and that though this Direction was written by
Mr. Judge, it was dictated by Mrs. Tingley. H. P. Blauatsliy, her Life and
Work f or Humanity, by Alice L. Cleather, p. 122.
STORMY YEARS 307
once, and on arrival in Adyar wrote an answer to the Madras
Mail and to the Daily Chronicle in England. Twenty thou­
sand copies were distributed throughout the world.
There was now a fairly general demand that Mr. Judge
should be called upon to make an explanation. Though the
balance seemed to be against Judge, yet many disagreed
with the President’s action and thought he should have taken
a more definite stand, especially as he had, in fact, been
responsible for making the whole matter public. Mr. Mead
was insistent that he should see the matter through, and
urged him “ to inaugurate a new atmosphere in the T. S.” 1
At the Convention in December the overseas delegates
included Dr. Hiibbe Schleiden, Germany ; J. C. Staples,
the new General Secretary, Australasia, and Bertram
Keightley. Naturally, the Judge case occupied much
attention. The President declared that he would adhere to
the Constitution whatever the cost. If Mr. Judge would
give neither satisfactory explanations nor resign his Federal
office, the consequence would be that a large number would
withdraw from 1 he Society, while if he should resign his
friends would stand loyally by him. A split seemed
inevitable.
The President called upon Mrs. Besant to address the
Convention. She first explained that she had tendered her
resignation as President of Blavatsky Lodge as soon as
Mr. Judge’s insinuations to her disparagement had been put
into circulation, so that the Lodge might if it chose be
entirely relieved of responsibility for her actions. She had
been re-elected and was therefore free to serve as delegate of
the Section and offer the Resolution. She recapitulated what
had occurred, and pointed out that Mr. Judge did not challenge
the facts o f the case, but he challenged the jurisdiction o f the
Court, and she admitted that his objection was well taken.
She presented the Resolution that the President-hounder be
requested to call upon Mr. Judge to resign the office of
1G. R. S. Mead to Col. Olcott, 3 Dec., 1894.
308 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Vice-President, it being open to him, if he wished, to submit
himself for re-election so that The Society might pass judg­
ment upon his position. This was seconded by Bertram
Keightley.
Mrs. Besant then urged the President to call upon
Mr. Judge to resign, because he held office during the life­
time of the President, and was not elected yearly, when the
matter could have been dealt with more simply. She
thought resignation the more honourable step. She further
objected to the effect of the E. S. document published in part
in the Westminster Gazette, which she said was contrary to the
First Object of The Society in that it raised feelings of
dis-union between the East and the W est; and she took
exception to the charges of “ Black Magic ” against
herself and Prof. Chakravarti. After discussion and sugges­
tions for amendments, the original Resolution was carried,
nem. con.
The President regarded Mrs. Besant’s morning lectures
for this Convention to be the inauguration of that series of
Convention Addresses which she continued with but few
exceptions up to 1930. Her subject was “ The Self and Its
Sheaths,” delivered to an immense crowd.
The Indian National Congress was meeting in Madras,
and Mrs. Besant made her first contact with it. She was
invited by the Congress to give two addresses, one on “ Tire
Place of Politics in the Life of a Nation ” and the other on
“ Temperance.”
An important decision of the Indian Section was to
remove its own Headquarters from Adyar to some town in
the North, and selected Allahabad. Another decision was
to form a “ Hindu Boys Association” to unite all the boys
Clubs and Societies hitherto organised by Col. Olcott on
his lecturing tours through India. It was intended to bring
Hindu boys together to practise their religion and understand
its significance.1
1See T h e A r y a B a l a B o d h i n i , Jan uary, 1895.
STORMY YEARS 309
1895
At the opening of the twentieth year of The Society’s
existence the President wrote :
“ The Society has been tried in the fire and had much
of its dross burnt out. Its leaders come and go, join, retire,
or die, but it pursues its steady march onward towards
success and yearly extends its sphere of usefulness. Those
who are behind the movement fill up the vacancies made in
our ranks by death and otherwise, and the close of each year
finds us stronger and more capable of winning our way than
we were the year before.” 1
But the troubles were not yet overpast. Mrs. Besant
circulated all over the world her reply to the Westminster
Gazette. Dissatisfaction with Mr. Judge’s position was in­
creasing and members were resigning. It was strongly felt
that it was but a quibble when he asserted that Mrs. Besant
had tried to make him give up the Vice-Presidency because
it was considered to be an office described as “ successor to
the Presidency,” and since there was no such office therefore
there was nothing for him to resign.
On 15 January the Aryan Branch met in New York and
passed resolutions requesting Mr. Judge not to resign ; it
being imperative in the best interests of The Society and for
the successful promulgation of Theosophy in America that
he should remain in office as Vice-President; also that in the
opinion of the Branch there was no necessity for any further
investigation of the charges made against him. The Branch
declared its full confidence in and determination to support
him.
In February Col. Olcott heard from Judge that he was
seriously considering secession from The Society.' He
left immediately for Calcutta to consult with Mrs. Besant and
Countess Wachtmeister. When there he took the chair at
an immense meeting in the Town Hall at which Mrs. Besant
1 O l d D i a r y L e a v e s , V , p. 310. s D ia r y , 1895.
310 A SHO RT H ISTO RY OF T H E THEO SO PHICAL SOCIETY
lectured on “ Castes and Classes.” It was during this
visit to Calcutta that Mr. Hirendra Nath Datta met
Mrs. Besant. He has given a long and faithful adherence
to The Society and placed his gifts unreservedly at
its disposal.
Mrs. Besant, Countess Wachtmeister and B. Keightley
had, 21 January, rented a bungalow in a quiet yet con­
venient part of Benares. It stood in four acres of ground and
was intended not only as a residence for all three, but also
as a Headquarters of the Indian Section.
Just about this time Mrs. Besant had completed and was
ready to issue the full text of “ The Case against Mr. Judge.”
She and Mr. Mead demanded his expulsion from The Society,
with a large body of agreement behind them in the Indian,
European and Australasian Sections. However, the
American Section held its Ninth Annual Convention, 25
April, and passed momentous Resolutions.
The argument was put forward that the forms of organi­
sation through which The Theosophical Society had passed
since 18/8 were the result of growth, not of votes, and were
adopted to suit the exigencies of the moment and had been
merely de facto, not de jure. On the other hand, the con­
federated American Branches were regularly organised in
1886, and had outgrown the prevailing form of organisation
of The Society. The duties pertaining to the general offices
had not been essential to the real work of any Section, or to
the movement as a whole, its federal and general officers
residing at remote distances from each other, and therefore
unfamiliar with the exact conditions and needs of Sections
other than their own. A Federation of all the Branches of
the world was not essential to the real work of any Section,
nor to the Theosophical Movement as a whole. As condi­
tions contrary to the principle of Universal Brotherhood had
arisen, which would prove fatal to the continued existence of
the Movement, it was therefore Resolved that the American
Section, in Convention assembled, assumed and declared its
STORMY YEARS 311
entire autonomy and would be called “ The Theosophical
Society in America" The Constitution was to provide that
W. Q. Judge should be President for life, with power to
nominate his successor.
The Branches were to retain their Charters, but the new
President was to re-endorse them. All the records, monies,
etc., belonging to the American Section were declared to
belong to the new Society, with Judge as their custodian.
The voting on these Resolutions was 191 for and 10 against.1
The objects of the new organisation were much the same
as those of The Theosophical Society.
In order to support this action, an Historical Sketch o f the
Theosophical Society was issued, and described as “ Inside
Facts from the Records of the PS., from 1875 to the present
day.” This recital had as object to try to show that the legal
history of The Society was with the little group in America
left behind in 1878. One instance will serve to show the
interpretation put upon events. It is said, p. 6. that the
“ earlier Branches [in America] were formed by delegates
from New York and they established the old ‘ Board of
Control ’.” The fact that their charters of existence were
supplied from India and signed by Col. Olcott and
H. P. Blavatsky as President and Corresponding Secretary
respectively, and that the Board of Control was authorised
and its members appointed by Col. Olcott, was suppressed.
The General Councils were described as “ alleged,” despite
the twenty years obedience to their mandates. It was argued
that “ nobody representative of all the Branches ever elected
Col. Olcott ‘ President for life,’ and no such body ever
‘ appointed William Q. Judge Vice-President.’ Col. Olcott
simply announced such appointment to the alleged ‘ General
Council,’ and the Convention of the Indian Section, and they
‘ ratified it.’ The whole business, as an organisation compris­
ing all the Branches in the world, is a ‘ flapdoodle ’ from
beginning to end.”
1 T h e ^Palh, M ay, 1895.
312 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Upon the inadequate information supplied in this docu­
ment, a legal advisor gave as his opinion that “ the so-called
Theosophical Society, having branches all over the world and
headquarters in India, has no reguarly adopted constitution
or by-laws, no regularly elected president or vice president or
other officers, and none other than a de facto existence. On
the other hand, the various so-called Branches of the Theo­
sophical Society in America have a de jure existence, not as
branches of the so-called General Theosophical Society, but
as free and independent bodies . . . deriving their de jure
existence, not from any charter of an organisation which is
de facto only, but from the voluntary agreement and associa­
tion of their own individual members . . . [by virtue of which
position the branches in America] are branches only of the
federation existing in America and that, of right, the said
federation of American branches is already free and inde­
pendent of all bodies of the so-called Theosophical Society
outside the federation of American branches.”
As has been seen, by the time H. P. B. and Col. Olcott
left America, where they had become the sole active workers
and leaders of The Society, all official authority was vested in
the President. Save themselves, there was no one to whom
to report on any action taken. In 1880 the President, by
virtue of his constitutional powers, created a General Council,
with himself at its head, which superseded all previous
authority, and whose powers gradually increased as time
went on, till they became in turn the governing body.
The President asked Dr. W. A. English to come over from
Ceylon, to take charge of The Theosophist during his proposed
visit to Europe. He sailed on 10 April, and at Marseilles
received a notification from Judge, giving particulars of the
secession, and affirming that the American Section had voted
to constitute itself a completely autonomous and separate
Society, and had thus “ effectively broken its connection with
The Theosophical Society.” It had also voted to consider
the Theosophical Society as holding a name “ to which it is
STO RM Y YEA RS 313
not really entitled, and having no Constitutional jurisdiction
over the Section, Branches and Fellows in America and
elsewhere, now holding its charters and diplomas.”
The President issued from Zumarraga, Spain, an
Executive Notice, 5 June, in which he cited the constitu­
tional nature of the history of The Society, and, by
virtue of his powers as President and official executive re­
presentative of the Constitution of The Theosophical Society,
declared the Charter for the formation of the American
Section in 1886, and the charters of all Lodges which had
seceded, as annulled ; and the diplomas of all Fellows who
accepted the Act of Secession as cancelled. That to those
Branches and Fellows which had refused to accept as binding
the Act of Secession, he would issue a new Charter for an
American Section of the Fheosophical Society. He appoint­
ed a special Committee of four, headed by Alexander
Fullerton, to act as Presidential Agents to supervise the
organisation of the new Section. From the date of the passage
of the Act of Secession, he declared the continued use of
The Society’s seal and retention of its papers, etc., as illegal,
and requested all archives, etc., to be handed over. The
office of Vice-President he declared vacant.'
Fourteen Branches were eventually drawn together by
George W. Wright, Chicago Lodge, who, despite great
pressure, had refused to secede. He and Miss N. E. Weeks "
wrote to all loyal Lodges to sign a petition to the President-
Founder that they be recognised as “ the still existing
American Section.” This the President granted, and issued
a duplicate Charter, for the Judge party had confiscated all
property and documents.
At the General Council held in London, 27 June, the
President’s action with regard to the American Secession was
confirmed and approved. The appointment of Mr. Sinnett as
1O l d D i a r y L e a v e s, V, pp. 367-8.
■Letter from Miss Weeks to Dr. Arundale, 1937. From 1899—190>
she acted as Col. Olcott’s Private Secretary at Adyar.
314 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Vice-President was warmly welcomed, and voted upon
affirmatively. Mr. Judge sent to this Convention a “ fraternal
message " addressed to “ 1he European Theosophists in
Convention assembled.” This “ discourteous ’’ note the Presi­
dent ruled out of order, as he declared that to accept it was
to cast the “ stigma of irregularity ” upon all that had been
officially done by himself and H. P. B. since 1878.'
The President drew a clear distinction between an
autonomous and a seceded Section. A Section of our
Society may . . . be autonomous in the full meaning—
self-law-making—of the word ; that is to say, may make its
own by-laws and rules with the President’s approbation, but
with the proviso that they “ do not conflict with the Objects
and Rules of The Theosophical Society.”
On 20 July Col. Olcott went to Paris with his sister,
Mrs. Belle Mitchell, and was deeply interested in the further
psychological researches at La Salpétrière, in Dr. Baraduc’s
remarkable photographs of the “ Astral Light ” and human
auras, and also in the hypnotic experiments of Col. de Rochas.
He then went on to Berlin, for the first time, and held
several meetings, and visited Holland on the way back to
London. He had been there earlier, in June, and on both
occasions found a warm welcome and made many new
friends. During all this year the President suffered a good
deal from gout in his feet, but he carried on just the same,
though at times he was forced to use crutches.
When in London, in October, Mrs. Besant and
Mr. Leadbeater exercised their clairvoyant abilities on the
examination of Col. Olcott’s past lives—a form of investiga­
tion which they pursued for many years with other peoplfc as
subjects. Mrs. Besant lectured very extensively in England
irom late April till the beginning of December, when she
went back to India. Her addresses at Queen’s Hall (small)
had begun to be a feature of each year. She gave a series of
lectures to Blavatsky Lodge, London, which, when published
1General Report, 1895, pp. 2, 3.
STORMY YEARS 315
under the title In the Outer Court, became a classic. During
August she, with Mr. Leadbeater and others, retired to the
country in England to pursue, with the assistance of the
Masters and H. P. B., the development of Mrs. Besant’s
powers of astral and inner vision. Many subjects came up
for investigation : a series of examples of conditions in
Devachan ; the construction of atoms and molecules ; Lemur-
ian and Atlantean conditions of the past; hints about re­
incarnation. These led to further and more extensive in­
vestigations in later years, based upon the surveys then
obtained. Some of the results of these experiments were
published in Lucifer, November, 1895 as “ Occult Chemistry.”
Some of the diagrams there given became very familiar in the
much read book, The Ancient Wisdom, by Mrs. Besant.1
The President returned to India, and in Madras interest­
ed the Governor in his School for the Panchamas, and heard
that the Viceroy also was interested in this work. At the
Convention in December Mrs. Besant again gave four
lectures, this time the famous series called “ The Path
of Discipleship.”
The storm seemed to have at last subsided, and a new
phase of The Society’s progress inaugurated.
' For further information on these investigations, see C. Jin arâia-
d âsa’s articles, “ Occult Investigation," in T h e T h e o s o p h i s t , beginning
M arch, 1938.
P E A C E F U L G R O W TH
Woe to those who live without suffering. Stagnation and death are
the future of all that vegetates without change. And how can there be
any change for the better without proportionate suffering during the
preceding stage ?
—H . P. B lavatsky
To me Theosophy . . . is literally the Divine Wisdom . . . It is not a
religion but all religions are within its work.
— A n n i e B e s a n t
1896
T his year was remarkable for a flood of Theosophical
literature. Col. Olcott’s first volume of Old Diary Leaves was
in great demand ; also In the Outer Court and Karma, the fourth
Manual, by Mrs. Besant, and The Path o f Discipleship.
Her edition of the Bhagaoad Gita, at sixpence a copy
for the first five thousand, had sold out. She was
preparing another Manual entitled Man and His Bodies.
The Voice o f the Silence, by H. P. B., was issued in a
fifth and revised edition. C. W. Leadbeater published
The Astral Plane and Devachan. He was now actively
engaged in lecturing and was Assistant General Secretary of
the European Section. Pie had for some time been a
member of the Avenue Road community, at the request of
Mrs. Besant. Mr. Mead had produced his fine translation of
the Pistis Sophia, and other important Gnostic literature. He
and Mr. J. C. Chattopâdhyâya (Chatterji) brought out one of the
best translations of ten of the major Upanishads. W. Scott-
Elliott published The Story o f Atlantis, which was the out­
come of clairvoyant investigation. The Growth o f the Soul by
PEACEFUL GROWTH 317
Mr. Sinnett, and Transactions of the London Lodge, em­
bodying his lectures, were also published. Three Spanish
members had translated The Secret Doctrine, Vol. I, into
Spanish. Dr. Pascal (France) had written an informative
book on Les Sept Principes de I'Homme. A Collection o f the
Esoteric Writings of T. Subba Row was brought out in India
by Tookaram Tatya.
New Lodges were formed everywhere, in which all this
literature was eagerly studied and lectured upon. Classes
for the study of The Secret Doctrine were held in a number of
places. In England, one of the most active lecturers was
Mr. A. Hodgson Smith, to whose enterprise and devoted
service The Society in the north of England and in Scotland
owed so much. He was ably seconded by Mrs. Cooper-
Oakley.
To the American Section, holding its Tenth Annual
Convention in Chicago, 26 April, the President sent his
cordial greetings. He pointed out that with regard to “ our
seceding brothers, I have no modification to make . . . if
[they] had confined themselves to withdrawal from The
Society and the formation of a new body, we should have
had no cause to protest, but could have worked with them in
full brotherly affiliation, both Societies being moved by a
common impulse. But when they went so far as to proclaim
all of the Society outside their party as irregularly and un­
constitutionally existing, co-operation became impossible ;
we might work with any other society or association, of
whatsoever kind, in the whole world, but not with them.
This is the parting of the ways. It now rests with us to
recognise the split as an accomplished fact, and to leave our
late associates in peace to go on as best they may ; ap­
plauding and appreciating all the good work they do,
disclaiming all responsibility for their errors, and patiently
waiting for the time when they shall be ready to undo the
wrong they have done us and smooth the way for closer and
more brotherly co-operation. The initiative must come from
318 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
them; we can do no more than what we have, viz., to
declare our readiness to meet them halfway, to forget the
past, and to forgive the injuries they have done us collectively
and individually.1
In April the New Zealand Section was chartered, with
Miss Lilian Edger as first General Secretary. In May
Col. Olcott went to Europe. He sought out archaeological
authorities, such as Flinders Petrie in England, and others
in Paris, about explorations on behalf of Zoroastrianism. With
the great Orientalist, E. Burnouf, he discussed the devel­
opment of the Adyar Library. Earlier, in June, he had
talked over old times with the Hon. A. Aksakoff (still Coun­
cillor of State to the Emperor of Russia) with whom he and
H. P.B. had had such close association in the early days. He
returned to England, and at a Blavatsky Lodge Mr. M. K.
Gandhi, then a member, was introduced to him.*
Col. Olcott presided over the Annual Convention of
the European Section, 4-5 July, and attended some of
Mrs. Besants lectures at Queen’s Hall during May, June and
July. It was during her stay at Avenue Road in this year
that Mrs. Besant first saw the Master Rakoczi. She was at
that time searching for a picture of him as Count St. Germain.
He told her that there was a painting of Himself extant,
which she would find. She discovered it in Rome, in the
chapel of the Knights of Malta, as Count Hompesch, which
was another of His appearances. Mrs. Cooper-Oakley was
particularly drawn to this Master. In 1907 Mrs. Besant
appointed her as President of the International Committee
for Research into Mystic Traditions. The results of her
researches were embodied in several books, specially in
Comte de St. G ermain. Her researches brought her into direct
contact with this Master of the Wisdom.
1 The Theosophisi, July, 1896, pp. 617-8.
' Mr. Gandhi admitted that on leaving College he was a materialist.
On coming into touch with Theosophy his whole me was affected, and he
realised the spiritual side of man's nature is of paramount importance.
He owed a debt to The Society he could never repay.
PEACEFUL GROWTH 319
During September Col. Olcott visited Holland, where a
band of devoted workers was making a successful effort to
build up the Section. He arrived back in Adyar in Octo­
ber, where he prepared his Annual Report, an historical
survey of the history of The Society from authentic docu­
ments, to show the difference between that history and
the claims made by Mr. Judge. He felt that in this task
he received inspiring help from the Master Hilarión.1
Mrs. Besant had arrived in India at the end of Septem­
ber and went direct to Benares where, in October, an Indian
Section Convention was held, to which she gave
addresses on The Three Paths : Karma (Action), Gnána
(Knowledge), and Bhakti (Devotion). Mrs. Besant travelled
extensively North and West, and began to establish Com­
mittees for the support of the proposed Central Hindu
College. Because the Hindus had begun to realise that
she was a strong advocate and powerful defender of their
faith, orthodox Hindus met her in crowds at the stations,
garlanded her, and cried out “ Glory to the Eternal Reli­
gion ! ” ' As India was, in parts, suffering from one of her
periodic famines, the Convention resolved to request all
Indian Lodges to convert themselves into Famine Relief
Committees.
Mrs. Besant went through Bombay, Mysore and Banga­
lore to Adyar, for the Convention, at which she gave splendid
lectures on Four Great Religions : Flindusim, Zoroastrianism,
Buddhism and Christianity. In his Annual Address, the
President drew attention to the growth of the Adyar Library
with its unique collections, especially in the department
of Buddhist literature. In this Report he paid special tribute
to Countess Wachtmeister who “ after performing prodigies
of platform, social and private work in Australasia, is now
devoting herself enthusiastically to the helping of the
American loyalists to reconstitute their Section.” ‘ Though
1D ia r y , 9 December 1896. " T h e P r o s ' n o l la r a , Jan. 1897.
•' G e n e r a l R e p o r t , 1896, p. 33.
320 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
there had been further secessions during this year, especially
in Scandinavia, of those who followed Mr. Judge, yet of 428
Chartered Branches, 338 living and recognised centres
remained.
Mr. Judge had passed away on 2i March. He had for
some years been suffering from tuberculosis. Upon his
death it was announced privately that his “ occult heir ” was
known to his E.S. Council, but the identity of whom was not
to be revealed for a year, and was referred to as “ Promise.”
To Mr. Judge was now ascribed the status of an “ Adept.”
It was believed that his successor was in direct communi­
cation with the Masters, and with H. P. B., and was
described as “ the new Light that has gone out from the
Lodge." When “ Promise ” appeared in public, she was
veiled, and was called in the newspapers, the “ Veiled
Mahatma."' in May it became known that one of the mem­
bers of this organisation was about to give to the Press
all information about “ Promise’s ” position. A meeting was
hurriedly called and the announcement made that “ a great
work which has been decided upon has rendered it desirable
that the name should be made public, the new Adept is
Mrs. Katherine A. Tingley.”" Mrs. Tingley at once decided
upon a World Crusade, and set out in September. She pro­
claimed herself as “ Leader of the entire Theosophical Move­
ment throughout the World.” A party of seven accom­
panied her.
Mrs. Tingley had a very strong desire to promote brother­
hood, so on her return to America she formed an Inter­
national Brotherhood League. She immediately set about
the establishment of the seat of learning, where Western
Occultism was to be taught, a “ School for the Revival of the
Lost Mysteries of Antiquity,” the foundations of which were
laid in 1897 at Point Loma, California. In January, 1898,
Mrs. Tingley founded the Universal Brotherhood and made
that the chief title, dropping to a secondary place the words
1N e w Y ork S u n , 18 May 1896. - From Private Papers.
PEACEFUL GROWTH 321
“ The Theosophical Society.” She recalled all previous
charters and diplomas, cancelled them, and re-issued them as
constituting membership in her new organisation called
“ Universal Brotherhood and Theosophical Society, with no
connection with any other Theosophical Society.” She
allowed the Lodges to die away, and concentrated her
considerable ability on the development of Point Loma,
giving special emphasis to Education and Art. In changing
the title of her organisation Mrs. Tingley lost a number of
supporters. A suit was brought by some to retain the title
of The Theosophical Society in America, which Mr. Judge
had founded in 1895. But it was legally judged that it was
competent for her Society to change its name and constitu­
tion, to adopt the title of Universal Brotherhood and to
retain all property.
Mrs. Tingley remained the unrelenting opponent of The
Theosophical Society, and from time to time launched
abusive attacks upon its leaders. She died at Visingso,
Sweden, 11 July, 1929.
1897
The two chief events of this year were the lecturing tours
undertaken by Col. Olcott and Mrs. Besant—the Colonel in
Australasia and Mrs. Besant in America.
Before leaving, Col. Olcott wrote, by request, an auto­
biographical note for the National Cyclopaedia o f American
Biography. He visited Ceylon, where he organised a recep­
tion to the visiting King of Siam, “ the last independent
reigning Buddhist sovereign.” The King expressed his
pleasure in meeting this “ friend of Buddhism.”
Townsville (Queensland) was the first town at which the
President landed in Australia, 9 June. He had not fore­
warned anyone of his intended visit, therefore no pre­
paration had been made to receive him. He found only
one person interested in Theosophy. He went on to
21
322 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Rockhampton, found his way to the house of Mr, W. Irwin,
and was cordially welcomed. He learned that Miss Lilian
Edger was also touring the Australian Lodges. He
arranged that she should come to Rockhampton that
they might undertake a campaign together. She arrived 17
June, and they started their work next evening with a
lecture by the President on “ The 1 heosophical Society,
Its Aims and Its Successes.” On the 20th Miss Edger
lectured on “ Reincarnation ” and the Colonel presided.
They moved on through Maryborough, Bundaberg and
Gympie, finding small but attentive audiences, for the
subjects they dealt with were new and unfamiliar in these
smaller towns.
Miss Edger had been relieved of the responsibilities of
the General Secretaryship of the New Zealand Section, in
order to leave her free to work where she chose. The Presi­
dent conceived the idea of making her an Inspector of
Lodges, which she was willing to undertake. He put this
project to the Lodges as they moved through the country, and
all enthusiastically agreed. Miss Lilian Edger had had a
brilliant scholastic career, and had been the first woman in
New Zealand to take the M.A. degree. She had held a high
educational post, which she resigned to devote her time to
The Society. She was a very capable speaker, presenting
her subjects lucidly and logically. Also, she wrote well,
and, a few years later, issued an excellent book called The
Elements o f Theosophy.
In Brisbane both the President and Miss Edger lectured
to large audiences. The former took as his special subjects
The Divine Art of Healing ; Spiritualism ; and sometimes
Intellectual and Mystical India.
In Sydney the audiences were good, and Col. Olcott
and Miss Edger took the platform together at a number
of meetings. They did the same at Melbourne, where
Mr. S. Studd was one of the early workers and is
now a veteran Theosophist, to whose devotion and
PEACEFUL GROWTH 323
■determination are due the present fine Lodge premises
in Melbourne, completed in 1937. In several towns in
Australia and New Zealand the President noted the kindly
custom, still prevailing, of members lunching together at The
Society’s rooms, thus providing an opportunity of building up
friendly relations.
The President and Miss Edger visited Tasmania, 9-21
August, where their lectures were well received. They
arrived in New Zealand, Dunedin, 25 August. Here, in
Christchurch, Wellington, Auckland and elsewhere, they
pursued the plan of lecturing together. A custom in
New Zealand was to have frequent receptions at the
houses of members, where there could be informal talks.
The President was, in Auckland, the guest of Dr. and
Mrs. Draffin. Dr. Draffin was a remakable character, and in
personal touch with the Masters. He left his impress upon
the work in New Zealand.
They were back in Sydney on 17 October and again
had a successful visit there. The President lectured at
Bathurst and at the mining town of Mount David, where he
formed a Lodge. Melbourne and Adelaide were next
visited. Looking back, the President felt that the Australa­
sian Lodges had, during this tour, been drawn more closely
together, and strong personal ties of friendship had been
made with himself.
Since Mrs. Besant could not return to India, the
President persuaded Miss Edger to accompany him to Adyar
to deliver the Convention Lectures, and afterwards to travel
through India. Miss Edger’s Convention lectures were
entitled : Theosophy Applied : to Religion ; to the Home ; to
Society ; and to the State.
Mrs. Besant had left India early in February for the
United States, where she arrived in New York, 18 March.
She was immediately beseiged by reporters, to whom she
affirmed that “ Madame Blavatsky has been reincarnated in
the person of a young Brahman, now about nineteen years
324 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
old . . . I knew from Mme. Blavatsky of this reincarnation
before it was consummated. . . .” 1
It was Mrs. Besant’s intention to assist in building up
again a strong American Section, and to aid those Lodges
“ of the T. S. that remain loyal to the Parent Society.”
She was accompanied by Miss A. J. Willson, and was joined
in New York by the Countess Wachtmeister, who travel­
led with her on this long tour, including about 70 towns.
Mrs. Besant’s chief subjects were : Theosophy and its
Teachings ; The Evolution of the Soul ; Man the Master
of his Destiny ; Man and his Bodies ; Life after Death ;
Science and Theosophy; Esoteric Christianity ; What is
Theosophy, etc. Her days were crowded with meetings
and interviews. New Lodges began at once to form, and
Mrs. Besant urged upon them to “ extend to each individual
member a perfect freedom of thought ; the uniting idea being
the belief in Brotherhood.”
When the Convention met in Chicago, 27 June,
Mr. Fullerton, the General Secretary, reported that already six
Lodges had been added to the Roll, in addition to the twelve
organised by Countess Wachtmeister in her previous fourteen
months work, bringing up the total to thirty-two. Before the
end of the year it had risen to fifty. The membership had
increased from 281 to 703, rising by December to 1164.
Mrs. Besant entirely reorganised The Society in America,
and started it again along its pathway of continuous growth.
During her tour many obstacles were deliberately put
in Mrs. Besant’s way by Mrs. Tingley’s group. Through
sensationalism Theosophy had been travestied and Mrs. Besant
restored it, as Mr. Fullerton said, “ to its real plane of dignified
religious philosophy, . . . through her magnificent expositions
of it.”
Mrs. Besant returned to England in September, and
gave two series of lectures, one to Blavatsky Lodge and the
1 T h e T h e o s o p h is t, M ay, 1897, p. 498.
G e n e r a l R e p o r t, 1897, p. 13.
PEACEFUL GROWTH 325
other at the Small Queens Hall, both Halls being packed,
and there was a great influx of new members. In addition, she
visited many Lodges. She left for Paris, 2 December,
where Commandant Courmes was doing splendid organising
work. She visited Nice and Toulon, and returned to give a
lecture at Queen’s Hall, 26 December, on “ The Christ,
Historical and Mystical." She published The Ancient Wisdom
about this time, a book which was presently studied in
practically every Lodge throughout the world.
The special literary event of the year was the appear­
ance of the Third Volume of The Secret Doctrine. While
Mr. G. R. S. Mead had been mainly responsible for the 1893
revised edition of the first two Volumes of The Secret Doctrine,
Mrs. Besant herself prepared this one for the Press. It con­
sisted of all that remained of the manuscripts left by H. P. B.
Part of the original MS. composing this volume is still in The
Society’s archives at Adyar, and forms a valuable witness to
the authenticity of what was already prepared by H. P. B. in
1886, and intended to form part of the first volume of her great
work. The latter portion of Volume III contained some of
H. P. B.’s more private teaching to her pupils, which was
now made accessible for public use.1
Mrs. Cooper-Oakely was at work seeking information in
Germany, France, Italy and Austria for her studies of the
lives of the Count St. Germain and Count Cagliostro. She
had pursued her researches in the libraries of Rome, Flor­
ence, Genoa, Nice, Marseilles and Paris, and at the same
time assisted in forming Lodges in both France and Italy,
the first Lodge in Rome being organised this year. Mr Lead-
beater had become a regular contributor to the magazines,
and in The Theosophical Review was publishing some of his
investigations into the realities behind the formation of the
Christian Creeds. He had become a favourite lecturer, deal­
ing particularly with those psychical subjects for which he
1See " How T h e S e c r e t D o c tr in e was Written," by the present writer,
T h e S e c r e t D o ctr in e , Adyar Edition, 1938, Vol. 1, p. 18.
326 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
had received special training, and the cultivation of which he
pursued patiently and continuously throughout his life.
In September, Lucifer changed its name to The Theoso-
phical Review, edited by Annie Besant and G. R. S. Mead,
and bearing from this time the strong impress of Mr. Mead’s
scholarly attainments. He thought the change of name not
only desirable, but a “ question of principle,” in order that
the magazine might find its way more readily, bearing its
great message of Theosophy.
The Society seemed to be on that firm basis which
H. P. B. had prophesied it must secure by 1897, if it was to
profit by the rising tide of that cycle.
1898
For this year the special activities were lecturing tours
by Mrs. Besant in India and Europe, and by Miss Edger in
India. There were others doing a considerable amount in
the lecture field ; Mr. Leadbeater, Mr. Mead and Mrs. Cooper-
Oakley in England ; K. Narainswami Aiyer, Bhavani
Shankar and several more in India, and the Countess Wacht-
meister in America and elsewhere. The United States began
correspondence classes in Theosophy which have ever since
been a feature of Theosophical work in that Section.
Arriving in Goteburg, 6 January, Mrs. Besant embarked
on a Scandinavian tour, which began at Copenhagen and in­
cluded Christiania, Stockholm (where a Convention was held),
Upsala, and Lund. Each day was strenuous, with Lodge,
public and other meetings and many interviews. Her main
subjects were : Theosophy and Christianity ; The Immortality
of the Soul, and Man and His Destiny. She arrived in
Holland, 26 January, and carried out the same kind of stren­
uous programme in Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Haarlem and
The Hague.
On returning to London, Mrs. Besant undertook a further
series of addresses at Blavatsky Lodge—some for members
PEACEFUL GROWTH 327
only ; others, to include the public, at Small Queen’s Hall.
She visited Glasgow, Edinburgh and Nottingham, and address­
ed other organisations. Literary work and interviews crowded
her days. She left, 14 March, visited Paris and Nice, and in
Rome gave a lecture (in French) on, Theosophy Past and
Future, which was well reported in the Press. On arrival in
India, Mrs. Besant went straight to Benares, 5 April, where
she began at once to look for a house suitable for the Section
Headquarters.
A momentous meeting was held on the 10th “ to consi­
der ways and means in connection with the scheme for a
Central Hindu College at Benares.” 1 The meeting included
some of The Society’s most brilliant workers in the north.
It was decided to start the College in the following July, and
an Executive Committee was formed. A monthly sub­
scription, guaranteed for six years, was opened and on
the list of subscribers was the Indian Section itself.
The most important resolution was to the effect “ that at
least half-an-hour be given every day in the classes to the
study of the true spirit of the ancient Hindu Religion and of
the Sanskrit language wherein it is mainly embodied.”' To
understand the full importance of this action would neces­
sitate an outline of the condition of affairs in India. As that
is not possible, it can only be said that there was a prevailing
apathy among the Indians themselves as to India’s future,
an almost fatal tendency to take it for granted that India was
decaying, and that only the West had the key to success in
worldly affairs, and must be imitated in every department of
life. Only India’s inner spiritual life remained intact, but
inoperative in outward affairs. To recall that spirit to be
an efficacious factor in India’s daily life was the goal which
Mrs. Besant put before herself, at the Master’s direction,
with what success we shall see as time goes on. She began
at once to draw together into Committees the prominent men
1 P r a s ’n o lla ra , A pril. 1898, p. 93.
' ¡h id ., p. 96.
328 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
of the country, both members of The Society and non­
members.
On returning to England she plunged at once into work
in London, and attended the Convention, 8-10 July.
Mr. Mead had found literary labours and official duties
were imposing too great a strain upon him, so he re­
signed the General Secretaryship in England. In doing so he
remarked : “ Everything is in order, the Section is healthy, the
times are peaceful. . . After the Convention, Mrs. Besant
paid visits to some Lodges in England and Scotland,
interspersed with a series of lectures at Queen’s Hall on
Esoteric Christianity. Her last talk to Blavatsky Lodge,
of which she was still President, was on “ Some Difficulties
of the Inner Life,” which has, as a pamphlet, been ever
since in constant demand as illuminating the “ inner ” prob­
lems with which all are confronted.
In England, as in other countries. Lodges were rapidly
springing up, composed of members whose names shine in
the annals of their Sections, because of their devotion to, and
their broadminded and intelligent promotion of the Cause they
had at heart. Also, many new writers were appearing who
filled the pages of the several magazines with thoughtful and
original articles. One of the early investigators into the
Human Aura as well as the aura of metals, etc., done with
scientific precision, was Dr. A. Marques, resident in Hono­
lulu (who self-sacrificingly undertook the General Secretary­
ship of the Australian Section during 1898-1901). A large
number of translations of standard Theosophical works
into about seven languages were published during the
year.
Mrs. Besant reached Benares, 18 September, and began
her great work of building up the Central Hindu College. It
had opened on 7 July with Dr. Richardson, F.T.S. as Hon.
Principal, and two other professors, one Indian, one Euro­
pean,1who gave their voluntary services.
1A generic term for Western people in India.
PEACEFUL GROWTH 329
Early in the year Col. Olcott and Miss Edger left for
Calcutta, where they started their Northern tour, going as far as
Lahore. Sixteen towns were visited, with very crowded
programmes in each place, and mostly packed and enthu­
siastic audiences. The Theosophic Life ; and Man, his
Nature and Evolution—were Miss Edger’s chief subjects.
As usual, during this tour there were adventures and hard­
ships, both amusing and serious. After leaving Allahabad
in early March, five more towns were visited on the way to
Madras. Col. Olcott spoke little, but busied himself with
forming associations for Hindu boys and collecting subscrip­
tions for the Arya Bala Bodhini.
At Adyar the President set about opening another
Pariah School at Kodambakam (Madras), and persuaded
the General Council to allow him to devote the H. P. B.
Memorial Fund to that purpose. He transferred the
Olcott Pension Fund to the Olcott Free School. He
prepared a plan to begin a Buddhist movement among
the Pariahs, being convinced that Buddhism was some­
thing they had once possessed and had lost. But though
he went to Ceylon and held an important meeting at
Kandy, 6 July, to bring this to pass, and had the sympathy of
the High Priest Sumangala and others, it eventually came to
nothing. To assist Col. Olcott in his work for the Pariahs,
Miss S. E. Palmer, U.S.A., offered her services for life. She
arrived in India, 13 December, and devoted all her time and
talents to educational work in India. She now lives in honour­
able retirement at Adyar.
On 20 July the President met Miss Edger at Coimbatore
to start out upon a South India lecture tour, when seventeen
towns were visited.
The Indian Convention was held in Benares, 25-27
October. The President came especially to preside. He
provoked great applause by announcing that he had consented
to hold “ the Annual Anniversary meetings of the whole
world-wide Theosophical Society at Madras and Benares
330 A SHO RT H ISTO RY OF T H E THEO SO PHICAL SOCIETY
alternately, in order that each alternate year, the Convention
of the Indian Section might be held at Benares in the
Christmas holidays, so that all the members in Northern India,
from Rawalpindi to Chittagong, might be able to attend,
to take part in the proceedings and work of the
Convention and thus profit both intellectually and spiritually
by coming into contact with those able to teach and enlighten
them.” 1 Mrs. Besant, Miss Edger, Countess Wachtmeister
and Dr. Pascal (France) all spoke, Mrs. Besant giving a
series of three lectures on “ Dharma.” The Convention
heartily endorsed the starting of the Central Hindu College,
and raised the Section’s contribution from Rs. 50 to Rs. 100
per month. Mrs. Besant explained the objects and purposes
of the College, and emphasised that the management would
remain in the hands of Hindus, and the four Europeans on
the Board of Trustees—herself, Dr. Richardson, Col. Olcott
and Mr. B. Keightley—were there purely to assist in the
revival of Hinduism. It was part of their intention, with the
establishment of this College, to establish similar institutions
all over the country, this being the Mother of other Hindu
Colleges. The Convention asked Lodges to form themselves
into Committees for collecting funds for the College, and this
they did.
Upendranath Basu, who was Joint-General Secretary
with Mr. Keightley, and had acted alone during the latter’s
absence of two years, announced that Mrs. Besant, Countess
Watchmeister, Mr. Keightley and Dr Richardson had arranged
to purchase from the Maharaja of Benares a beautiful, quiet
place. Half this would be used privately, and the other half
the Section could purchase, at cost price, upon which to erect
its Headquarters and offices.
The opportunity was taken to present an address to the
President-Founder in which it was said : “ The magnificent
Society that circles the globe, with its thousands of members,
owes to you its organisation, as it owes to your beloved
1P r a s 'n o lta r a , Oct. and Nov. 1898, pp. 241-2.
PEACEFUL GROWTH 331
comrade its spiritual life. You have watched over it, guarded
it with fatherly solicitude, and have asked no reward save
the continued right to serve. And as though to crown your
long efforts with the most striking example of benevolence,
you are trying now to reach the vast pariah class of Southern
India, and to prevent them from becoming a danger to
Eastern society by giving them faith and hope. To this end
you have sacrificed the fund lovingly given to you by a few
friends for the comfort of your age, and stripping yourself you
have devoted it to the service of these poor outcastes of
humanity. Therefore we praise and thank you, and we pray
that the great gods and Rishis whose work you do will long
preserve you to us as helper and friend, and as the President
of The Theosophical Society.” 1
As Mrs. Besant was suffering from overstrain, and she
had undertaken heavy and serious work for the Central
Hindu College (C. H. C.), she accepted no further engage­
ments to visit Lodges. She gave a series of talks to the Col­
lege students on the great Hindu epic, the Mahâbhârata, sum­
marising the long story with extraordinary skill. These talks
were published as The Story o f the Great War.
Mrs. Besant arrived in Adyar, 21 December, for Conven­
tion, at which she gave the series of lectures entitled
“ The Evolution of Life and Form.” The first lecture was
attended by the Governor of Madras, Sir A. Havelock,
and his presence was indicative of the changed and more
sympathetic attitude of the Anglo-Indian (European) com­
munity to The Society and its work. Col. Olcott had long
maintained friendly relations with Government House and
the Governors as they came and went. Fie regularly
attended Government Dinners and Balls, for he loved
dancing. The new Western Library was opened, to which
the President had given much attention during the year.
In his Address the President said the Theosophical
Movement had come to stay : “ You and I might be swept
1P r a s ’n o tta r a , Oct. and Nov. 1898, pp. 252-3.
332 A SH O RT H ISTO RY OF T H E THEO SO PHICAL SOCIETY
•out of sight, yet the movement would run on unshaken in its
power for good.”
1899
Each year brought its own problems, its own activities
and modes of progress. In this year educational interests
occupied much of the attention, both of the President and of
Mrs. Besant. Col. Olcott expanded the Panchama Schools,
and enlisted for this work the sympathy and support of mem­
bers all over the world. He spent some time in Ceylon re­
organising the Buddhist educational work and rehousing the
Mahinda College at Galle. At a Theosophical Convention,
10 June, he was elected for life as President of the Buddhist
Educational Board. He spent a good deal of his time going
about patiently and successfully canvassing for funds for all
this educational work. When he returned to Adyar he made
the final enlargements of the great Hall, and installed in the
recess a statue of H. P. B. made at the Madras School of
Arts. He called it “ H. P. B.’s Home-coming ! ” In the
pedestal was placed the portion of H. P. B.’s ashes which
be had carefully guarded. It was unveiled on 8 May, White
Lotus Day, after appropriate religious ceremonial, and 300 poor
fisher-people had been fed. The President then pinned upon
the breast of the sculptor a Blavatsky Statue Medal.
The President expected to sail from Bombay, 7 July, for
a tour in South Africa. Plans had been completed and funds
raised, when he was advised that warlike conditions in the
country were such that it was inadvisable for him to keep to
his programme. The South African Lodge had been formed,
10 March, in Johannesburg, and some of its early members
are still faithful workers.
The Adyar Library was steadily growing in importance,
and in December the President asked Prof. Max Muller to
recommend him a young German scholar to come and assist
with the mass of MSS.
PEAC EFUL GROWTH 333
After a brief visit to Burma in January, during which
she lectured and formed a C. H. C. Committee, Mrs. Besant
returned to Benares. Then she occupied herself almost
exclusively with the organising of College Committees in
many towns and in rapid and effective development of the
College itself. She went to England in May and did much
private E. S. work. She spent a week in Paris, giving lectures
and meeting many people. Under the direction of Com­
mandant D. A. Courmes “ Senior French Member of The
Society,” preparation was made for the formation of a French
Section of which Dr. Th. Pascal was the first General Secre­
tary. Beginning 28 May, Mrs. Besant gave a series of lectures
at Small Queen’s Hall on “ The Ascent of Man,” and another
series at St. James’ Restaurant on “ The Iliad of India” (the
Mahabharata), the profits of which went to the C. H. C.
The European Section held its Convention in London,
7-9 July, when a reception was held at 19 Avenue Road
for the last time. Both Mrs. Besant and Mr. Leadbeater
gave Convention Addresses at the Small Queen’s Hall.
Mrs. Besant attended and spoke at Federation Conferences
in England. She went to Amsterdam and Brussels, and
when again in London in September delivered another series
of talks at Queen’s Hall. She sold 19 Avenue Road be­
cause it had become difficult to keep up, and was now not
centrally enough situated—to find that the purchaser was
Mrs. Katherine Tingley, who wished to make the premises
her own European Headquarters.
When back in India, October, Mrs. Besant pushed for­
ward her plans for the C. H. C. The ideals that were the
basis of the life of the College aroused the sympathetic interest
of the Viceroy, Lord Curzon, also of the Lieut.-Governor of
the Province. In December she gave the Convention lectures
at Adyar on “ Avataras,” with “ matchless eloquence to a
spell-bound audience.”
The American Section merged its magazine, M ercury„
into The Theosophical Review, England, thus concentrating on
334 A SH O RT H ISTO RY OF T H E THEO SO PHICAL SOCIETY
one journal for America and Europe. The Society has still
one central organ, The Theosophist, edited by the President,
but each Section, with few exceptions, maintains its own
domestic journal.
Voluntary services in the lecturing field had been gener­
ous : Mr. Leadbeater, Mr. Mead and Mrs. Cooper-Oakley in
England were notable and attractive speakers. Miss Edger
visited Australia and New Zealand. Countess Wachtmeister
had toured in France and India, where she formed a number
of Branches. Besides which, there was a growing host of
members competent to speak on Theosophy on the public
platform, to uphold The Society’s dignity and increase its
influence.
1900
Many famous people visit the Headquarters and Library
at Adyar. Two may be mentioned in this year : in January
the French author Pierre Loti came twice ; and later the
Viceroy, Lord Curzon, to whom Col. Olcott explained his
educational work both in Ceylon and among the Pariahs.
The President went to Europe in February and, again,
many men and women of the world honoured him for
his work for Theosophy, for Buddhism, and for the
Panchamas. He arrived in Rome, 7 March, and spoke to
the members. In Florence, Lady Florence, Paget and the
Princesse de Rohan each arranged for literary and Court
people to meet him at dinner, and there Capt. (later Colonel)
Boggiani was taking an active interest in the work. ! In Flor­
ence the President met Nina de Gernet, a pioneer Russian
Theosophist who dared to reintroduce Theosophy into her
country, despite strict censorship. Milan provided an intel­
lectual group to whom the President spoke on Reincarnation,
and a Lodge was organised. In Nice he lectured in both
French and English, and met the Swiss lady, Miss C. Kofel,
1General Secretary, 1901-4 and 1919-29.
PEAC EFUL GROWTH 335
who served as Superintendent of the Panchama Schools,
1907-21. During April the President went on through Toulon,
Marseilles, Grenoble and Lyons to Paris, and this time
met the Blech family, which has played so large a part
in the promotion of The Society in France. Charles Blech,
was General Secretary of the French Section from 1908 to
1934. His sisters, Zelma (still living), and Aimee, gave
their lives in service to The Society.
In England and Scotland, 15-27 April, the President
visited the larger Lodges, not lecturing much in public
but meeting the members. He then went to Brussels
and Antwerp. Belgium was a fresh field, where there
were already some excellent workers. He then toured
in Scandinavia—Copenhagen, Goteborg and Christiania to
Stockholm where he presided over the Convention, 19 May,
and he went as far north as Lulea, where an interpreter was
necessary. Then back through Stockholm, Lund and Ham­
burg to Amsterdam, meeting members in each place. In
Amsterdam the Dutch Section held its fourth Convention,
with many delegates. Col. Olcott said :
“ Holland has for years occupied a leading place in our
European movement, there being collected at the Amsterdam
Headquarters several persons of high capacity and unquench­
able zeal ; drawing their inspiration largely from the
beloved and respected Mme. Meuleman.” 1
The President passed through Rotterdam and Hanover,
giving talks to members, and arrived Leipsic 13 June. Here
he met Dr, Franz Hartmann, who was now the leader of the
Judge group in Germany, who wished to be acknow­
ledged, and to share in the profits of The Society.
Dr. Hiibbe Schleiden, scholar and pioneer, had retired to
write a book showing the historical and scientific basis of the
theory of Reincarnation. At Dohren the President talked to
enquirers and did the same on a return visit to Amsterdam,
1G e n e r a l R e p o r t, 1900, p. 6.
2D ia r y , 1900.
336 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
as he travelled through to preside over the Fourth Theoso-
phical Convention in Paris, at which Mrs. Besant represent­
ed the European Section, and G. N. Chakravarti gave a
paper.
In Paris Col. Olcott met Senor Salvador de la Fuente y
Romero, who bestowed upon him a gift of Frs. 35,000 (then
£ 1,400) in gold and notes : two-thirds for the Adyar Library,
one third for the Panchama Schools, and yet more before the
Colonel left. In London, the European Section held its
Tenth Annual Convention with the President-Founder in the
Chair. The chief speakers at the public meetings in the
Small Queen’s Hall were : Mr. Mead, speaking on “ Frag­
ments of a Faith Forgotten,”1Mr. Leadbeater, Mr. Chakravarti,
Mrs. Besant and the President-Founder. After Convention,
the President went on a tour through some of the English
Lodges in the South and West. Remarking on the work
in England he said in his General Report that “ the bulk
of our best literature is being written there, and many of
the Branches are models for imitation, especially so the
Blavatsky Lodge, of which Mrs. Besant is President, and
whose membership is, I believe, the largest in the world.”
He spent some time in London and Paris, then returned to
India through Colombo. Mr. C. Jinarajadasa was among
those who saw the President off, and who left in September to
devote himself to working for Buddhism in Ceylon, under the
auspices of The Theosophical Society. He had taken his
degree in the Oriental Languages Tripos at Cambridge, and
was about to embark in his turn on the long services to The
Society which have made him famous. Mr. Leadbeater left
about the same time for a four months tour among the
Lodges of the American Section. He had given much time
to clairvoyant examination of early Christianity, to assist
Mr. Mead in his historical researches into Gnostic and
Christian origins.
1 A fterw ards published a s a book and still quoted by scholars as a
work of reference.
PEACEFUL GROWTH 337
The President had persuaded Miss Lilian Edger to come
again and give her services to India. She arrived in December,
and at his request gave four lectures at Adyar, on the
27th to 30th.
During this year Mrs. Besant had again devoted her
organising talents to the building up of educational work and
the re-creation of India’s greatness. In January she visit­
ed fifteen towns in the South. In February and March she
travelled in the North, calling upon the rulers of Patiala and
Kashmir, enlisting their sympathy and financial support for
her educational work and for the College. In March she
moved into Shanti Kunj, her beloved home, for many years.
She left for Europe, 7 April, and lectured in Naples, Rome,
Florence, Venice Milan, Lucerne, on her way to England,
arriving 19 May. During July she gave a series of talks at the
Headquarters, 28 Albemarle St., on “ Thought Power, its
Control and Culture.” As a book, these lectures have been
continuously studied throughout the world. She gave a series
of Addresses at the Small Queen’s Hall, May and June, on
“ The Emotions, their Place, Evolution, Culture and Use.”
During July and August she visited some of the larger
English Lodges, then left for India, 24 September, and return­
ed to Benares. She visited some Northern towns in
November and December and began to stress some of the
great teachings of Hinduism, beginning with Hindu Theism,
and branching out into the magnificent ideals that underlie
all Hindu growth. She gathered them all into a superb
appeal in her Convention address at Benares, on “ Ancient
Ideals in Modern Life.”
The Society, and the Theosophic Movement that had
spread out from it in ever widening circles, was now to a
considerable extent in the position which H.P.B. had desired
it should fill by the end of the century. She had said that
“ during the last quarter of every hundred years an attempt
is made by [the] ‘ Masters . . . to help on the spiritual
progress of Humanity in a marked and definite way. Towards
22
338 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
the close of each.century you will invariably find that an out­
pouring or upheaval of spirituality—or call it mysticism if you
prefer—has taken place. Some one or more persons have
appeared in the world as their agents, and a greater or less
amount of occult knowledge and teaching has been given
out.” In The K ey to Theosophy, she wrote that the future of
The Theosophical Society would “ depend almost entirely
upon the degree of selflessness, earnestness and devotion, and
last, but not least, on the amount of knowledge and wisdom
possessed by those members, on whom it will fall to carry on
the work, and to direct the Society after the death of the
Founders. . . . I do not refer to technical knowledge of the
esoteric doctrine, though that is most important ; I spoke
rather of the great need which our successors in the guidance
of the Society will have of unbiassed and clear judgment.
Every such attempt as the Theosophical Society has hitherto
ended in failure, because, sooner or later, it has degenerated
into a sect, set up hard-and-fast dogmas of its own,
and so lost by imperceptible degrees that vitality which
living truth alone can impart. You must remember
that all our members have been bred and born in some creed
or religion, that all are more or less of their generation both
physically and mentally, and consequently that their judg­
ment is but too likely to be warped and unconsciously biassed
by some or all of these influences. If, then, they cannot be
freed from such inherent, bias, or at least taught to recognise
it instantly and so avoid being led away by it, the result can
only be that the Society will drift off on to some sandbank of
thought or another, and there remain a stranded carcase to
moulder and die. [If this danger be averted] the Society will
live on into and through the twentieth century. It will
gradually leaven and permeate the great mass of thinking and
intelligent people with its large-minded and noble ideas of
Religion, Duty, and Philanthropy. Slowly but surely it will
burst asunder the iron fetters of creeds and dogmas, of social
and caste prejudices ; it will break down racial and national
PEACEFUL GROWTH 339
antipathies and barriers, and will open the way to the
practical realisation of the Brotherhood of all men. Through
its teaching, through the philosophy which it has rendered
accessible and intelligible to the modern mind, the West will
learn to understand and appreciate the East at its true value.
Further, the development of the psychic powers and faculties,
the premonitory symptoms of which are already visible in
America, will proceed healthily and normally. Mankind will
be saved from the terrible dangers, both mental and bodily,
which are inevitable when that unfolding takes place, as it
threatens to do, in a hot-bed of selfishness and all evil
passions. Man’s mental and psychic growth will proceed in
harmony with his moral improvement, while his material
surroundings will reflect the peace and fraternal good-will
which will reign in his mind, instead of the discord and strife
which is {are] everywhere apparent around us to-day.” '
1T h e K e y to T h e o s o p h y , Conclusion, pp. 304-6, 1890 edition. These
sentence have been quoted so freely in The Society that they are given
here in full.
T H E N E W C E N T U R Y O PE N S
W IT H P R O M IS E
1901
“ . . . Universal Unity and Causation, Human Solidarity i
the Law of Karma ; Reincarnation. These are the four links of the
Golden Chain which should bind humanity into one family, one universal
Brotherhood.”
—H. P. B l a v a t s k y in T h e K e y to T h e o s o p h y
“The Theosophical Society . . . is not destined to die till it has
accomplished its great mission to regenerate and re-establish India as the
first country in the world—that country pre-eminently which is the mother
of all that is spiritually good. . . . All national movements for India’s
spiritual and material welfare are both directly and indirectly due to the
Theosophical Society and to its Founders. . . . But our chief debt of
gratitude is to the late Madame Blavatsky. . . . India owes to Madame
Blavatsky a debt which it has owed to no other woman or man for many
centuries. . . .
— I n d ia n M ir r o r , January, 1902,.
T he President went, 7 January, to Colombo and attended to
Educational work, then left on the 11th for the United
States. At Honolulu he stayed for several days, meeting
members and visitors and greatly stimulating the Aloha
Lodge. He was received by Queen Liliukolani who gave
him a copy of a book she had written. At San Francisco he
was met by Mrs. K. Buffington Davis, who had done much
courageous service in rebuilding the Section. His time was
always fully occupied with interviews, visitors and Questions
—-which he described as “ Quiz meetings." For public
lectures his subjects were : Buddhism ; The Rise and
Progress of the Theosophical Movement ; The Divine Art of
Healing (the most popular) ; Theosophy ; Religion and
THE NEW CENTURY OPENS WITH PROMISE 341
Occult Science ; Modern Hindus and their Ancient Religion ;
Psychism, Spiritualism, Hypnotism and their Perils, etc.
Count Axel Wachtmeister had engaged for Col. Olcott’s
lecture the ballroom at Hotel del Coronado, Coronado. The
following day Mrs. K. Tingley, president of the Universal
Brotherhood at Point Loma, informed the manager that he
would have “ to cancel the date with the Olcott people, or she
would at once place on embargo on all hotel guests who drive
out to see the Point Loma homestead. . . . The only way to
pacify Mrs. Tingley was to cancel the date arranged for
Col. Olcott. . . .” 1 The paper reported that the same
thing had happened to Mr. Leadbeater in the previous
February when he was speaking at San Diego. Mrs. Tingley
threatened to withdraw all her trade from the owner if he
permitted the lecture to take place on his premises. He felt
compelled to cancel the dates.
Speaking at the Fisher Opera House, San Diego, 28
March, the President re-told the history of The Theosophical
Society and Movement as it had unfolded under his direction,
and of which he had lived to see the present splendid posi­
tion. Therefore, he found it ridiculous to pick up a supposed
history of The Theosophical Society and find his own name
entirely left out of it. On the 29th Mrs. Tingley took the
same Opera House for a meeting. Her handbills described
her as “ Leader and Official Head of the Universal Brother­
hood and Theosophical Movement throughout the World.”
She spoke in honour of “ William Q. Judge, the late American
Theosophical Leader and successor to Mme. H. P. Blavat-
sky." After Col. Olcott’s lectures he was asked many
questions about himself and the leaders at Point Loma. He
replied : “ What they do time alone will judge which is right
or wrong. We have no patent right to the name of Theo­
sophy. Whenever an individual or a group of individuals
honestly strive to uplift mankind by removing ignorance and
increasing wisdom, the goodwill and help of the Adept
1L os A n g e l e s H e r a ld , 28- 3- 1901, in Col. Olcott’s S c r a p b o o k -
342 A SHO RT H ISTO RY OF T H E THEO SO PHICAL SOCIETY
follows them. But the indispensable condition is that there
should be no fraud, falsehood or deception at the bottom." 1
The President travelled North through Sacramento,
Tacoma and Seattle to Vancouver, speaking sometimes to
crowds, sometimes to very small audiences. He dipped down
to Denver and Lincoln, then went on to Minneapolis—where
a great reception was accorded him, as also at St. Paul.
In Chicago the reporters flocked about him and many old
friends came to see him. He called upon Geo. E. Wright,,
now an invalid, for the President was grateful to the man
who had done so much to save the situation in 1895, and
who continued to labour valiantly for The Society till his
health failed. Here the President met Mr. Leadbeater,
and they devoted time to tracing some of Col. Olcott’s
past “ lives,” for he was keenly interested to know why
certain people had come so closely into his life.
At Convention Mr. Fullerton surveyed the satisfactory
growth of the Section and the great promise of fulfilment
inherent in it. At the public lectures many were unable to
find room in the Hall. The President spoke to members of
his experiences with the Masters of the Wisdom. His lecture
on Healing, 2 June, drew a crowded audience He remained
in Chicago from 23 May till 12 June, giving most of his time
to seeing people, and realising (as does every travelling
lecturer) how much of a father-confessor ” he or she be­
comes to troubled humanity. On the next section of his
journey many of the meetings were held in private
houses. He went as far North as Saginaw, then back
through Toledo to Cleveland. When in Washington he
met Mr. A. P. Warrington the “ only Theosophist in Vir­
ginia ”—and a future Vice-President. After visiting Phila­
delphia and some other places, the President sailed for
Liverpool, 26 August. He went across to Basle, 14 August, to
meet Senor Xifre and arrange with him about forming a
Committee of the Spanish Lodges before making them into
1S a n D i e g o U nion , 3-30-1901 (S c r a p b o o k )■
THE NEW CENTURY OPENS WITH PROMISE 343
a Section. He arrived in S. America, 14 September, and
was met by three Presidents of Lodges. He spoke first at
the oldest Lodge, Luz, formed in 1893, and of which Señora
Antonia M. Royo was the moving spirit. To the English
Literary Society in Buenos Aires he gave a lecture on
“ Theosophy and Common Sense,” to a packed audience.
On the 22nd he visited La Plata and spoke in French at the
Public Library in the Government Palace to about four
hundred—Senators, Deputies, Ministers of the Cabinet,
Judges of the High Court, Professors, etc.
The President arranged that Luis Scheiner, who knew
eight languages, Secretary of the Vi Dharma Lodge, should
be his local correspondent for a tentative South American
Section, which was not formed until 1920. On returning to
Europe, he officially opened the Netherlands Section Head­
quarters, Amsterdam, 24 October.
The President returned to Colombo, 15 November,
where the Ananda College gave him a reception at which
the High Priest Sumangala presided. He arrived back in
Adyar on the 21st, glad to be home again after completing
48,000 miles of travel, and satisfied that The Society was
well launched upon its great career in this new century.
Mrs. Besant was as usual the other prominent figure in The
Society’s work. From January to March she emphasised in
her lectures the immense significance of Hinduism, and, as
she went from town to town, spoke frequently on Hinduism
and Theosophy. She held up for modern emulation the
ideals of the spiritual life that Hinduism had ever held dear.
In pursuance of these ideals the Managing Committee of the
Central Hindu College decided to refuse admission to the
Middle School of married boys, under about the age of
nine. It is now difficult to imagine how daring such an
innovation was at that time.
Education was always to the- fore in Mrs. Besant’s work,
for the sake of which she spent considerable periods at
Benares consolidating the work of the C. H. College, of
344 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
which she was "the life and soul.” What Col. Olcott had
done for Buddhism in his Catechism, she now did for Hindu­
ism in Text Books for junior and senior students, and her
anonymons Advanced Textbook o f Hinduism was, and is, not
only a fine and authorised exposition of Hinduism, but an
equally fine exposition of Theosophy. She gave another
series of brilliant lectures at the College, this time on the
Ramayana the epic story of Shri Rama and his faultless wife
Sita. It was published as Shri Ramachandra, the Ideal King.
Mrs. Besant was drawing into the work for India’s
regeneration the finest Indians in many walks of life, and
winning at the same time Government approbation for the
titanic task she had undertaken. She visited about thirty
towns throughout the North, West and East, and everywhere
stirred the people deeply and induced them to take action,
especially in education. It became characteristic of Lodges
that, whenever they could, they undertook to open schools,
and especially to do pioneering work in starting Schools for
girls—then but a reluctant activity on the part of the public
in general. Funds poured in for her many projects, for the
people trusted her.
In December, despite weakness from fever, Mrs. Besant
went to Adyar for Convention, (at which Mr. Jinarajadasa
spoke for the first time). She gave another series of lectures
on religions : Islam, Jainism, Sikhism—and closed with an
exposition of Theosophy as being the eternal basis of all
Religions.
1902-3
1902. Col. Olcott spent most of this year at Adyar
seriously troubled with gout, which at times crippled him and
forced him to use crutches, and his hands were occasionally
out of action.
Trouble arose in the Aloha Branch, Honolulu, and was
serious enough to cause the loss of Dr. Marques. It was an
THE NEW CENTURY OPENS WITH PROMISE 345
•echo of the Judge trouble, and was ended by the President
declaring illegal the election to office of one belonging to
Judge’s Society.
Sections were being formed in Germany, with Dr. Rudolf
Steiner as General Secretary, and Italy, under Capt. O.
Boggiani. Since these countries had formed their own
Sections and others were about to do so, the title European
Section was dropped. The British Lodges became once
more the British Section. These several Sections at once
made plans for a Federation of European Sections, of which
the President approved, and which holds important Con­
gresses in one or other European country.
The President-Founder celebrated his 70th birthday,
2 August, at Adyar and congratulations poured in upon him.
Ceylon celebrated the day with illuminations and processions,
and the chanting of benedictory verses in most of the
Buddhist temples. He wrote a pamphlet called The Poor
Pariah, in which he appealed for compassion towards these
pitiable people, whose condition then was incredibly bad.
He distributed it all over the world, to editors especially,
and found a ready financial response.
Mrs. Besant pursued her educational work in India.
From the beginning of May till early October she was mainly
in England, where she delivered three series of addresses :
one, for members only, on “ Consciousness and its Mecha­
nism ; ” 1 the second, public, at Queen’s Hall, on a series of
Christian subjects ; and the third, also public, at Albemarle
Street, on “ Will, Desire and Emotion and their Bearing on
Life.” She gave her first lecture at the Large Queen’s
Hall, on “ Theosophy and Imperialism.” She visited
many towns in Britian and appealed for help to form a
Lodge at Cardiff (Wales). In August she visited Holland and
Brussels. During this summer Madame Anna Kamensky
1The addresses were printed first in T h e T h c o s o p h ic a l R eu ieu ), begin­
ning July 1902, as "The Evolution of Consciousness,” and then as the
book, A S tu d y in C o n scio u sn ess,
346 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
met Mr. Besant for the first time, and became her faithful
disciple. She worked and works untiringly to present
Theosophy to Russians, now outside Russia.
Leaving London 13 October, Mrs. Besant went first to
Berlin for a Convention of Lodges, then to Paris. Moving
southwards she visited Geneva, Grenoble, Marseilles and
Nice ; then to Genoa where a Lodge was formed. Rome
came next, then Florence, Bologna, Milan and Turin, before
leaving, 24 November, for India. At the Annual Conven­
tion, held in Benares, she spoke on “ The Laws of the Higher
Life.” In his Presidential Address Col. Olcott said : “ An
unseen but omnipotent influence is palpably acting behind
and through us. So firmly convinced am I of this that I feel
no hesitation in saying there will soon be centres of activity
established by us in nearly every quarter of the civilised
globe.”
Mr. Leadbeater went to the United States in August, to^
remain there until 1905. Two Indian authors made valuable
contributions to Theosophic literature—Bhagavân Dâs in The
Science o f the Emotions, and Purnendu N. Sinha, M.A., in A
Study o f the Bhâgavata Purâna.
Mrs. Besant engaged in yet another activity, being
“ directed ” thereto. This was the Co-Masonic Order,.
L’Ordre Maçonnerie Mixte International, Le Droit Humain.
Various Craft Lodges in France had broken loose from the
Supreme body in France and constituted themselves a Grand
Lodge. Of this group one Lodge remained unabsorbed
when another reorganisation took place, 1894-7. In 1882
this Lodge, recognised by the Grand Orient of France,
decided to initiate a woman—Mile Maria Desraimes. Under
the persuasion of Dr. Georges Martin and others, she eventu­
ally initiated other women, and in 1893 La Grand Loge
Symbolique Ecossaise de France, Le Droit Humain (Human
Duty) came into existence. Miss Francesca Arundale (aunt
of Dr. G. S. Arundale) was the first English lady to enter
this Order. She informed Mrs. Besant about it, who felt
THE NEW CENTURY OPENS WITH PROMISE 347
“ that a Masonic movement open to men and women alike
could be made a powerful force for good in the world."
Mrs. Besant was initiated in Paris, and through her promotion
of the interests of the Order it spread very rapidly to many
countries. She became The Very Illustrious Vice-President,
Member of the Supreme Council, Most Puissant Grand Com­
mander of the British Jurisdiction.1
1903. As problems connected with the Fuente Legacy to
which he and Mrs. Besant were sole heirs, could be settled only
by going to France, the President arrived in Paris 23 March.
Business delays kept him there till early June. He greatly
enjoyed his stay, for he felt that “ French hearts and homes
opened to me.” In his Diary are mentioned the brilliant,
generous and friendly group of men and women who were
then building up The Society in France : the Blechs, the
Revels, Chevrier, Comte A. de Gramont, Dr. Calmette,
A. Oestermann (Alsace), and many more. When business
matters were held up. the President went on to Geneva.
7 June, where, at crowded meetings, he was asked many
questions. In Amsterdam he received a “ loving welcome "
and was happy to be there, amongst a fine group of members :
W. B. Fricke, Mrs. Windust, the Schuurmanns, Miss C.
Dykgraaf, the Vredes, who arranged for him a charming
garden party, and the Meulemans, though Mevrouw
Meuleman, “ Mother of Dutch Theosophy,” had passed away
the year before.
In England, an even larger group of members, both in
London and throughout the country was creating a strong
Section, led still by many early members who had had the
-privilege of working under H. P. B.—G. R. S. Mead, Bertram
Keightley, H. Burrows, Mrs. Cooper-Oakley, Miss Arundale,
the Sinnetts ; Mrs. S. M. Sharpe, the Hodgson Smiths and
the Bells in Harrogate. Herbert Whyte, G. Dyne and a
1U n io er sa l C o -M a so n ry . W hat is it ? J. 1, W. (J. I. Wedgwood),.
p p . 25-30.
348 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
number of others of a younger generation had begun to
lecture and to play their part. At the request of Mrs. Besant,
G. S. Arundale, M.A. went to India in February, as Professor
of English at the Central Hindu College. In the following
year he was appointed Hon. Headmaster of the School
department.
Having decided to go to Cuba on the Fuente business,
the President arrived there 30 September. He was met by
Senor Miguel R. Munoz, whom he described as the first
member of The Theosophical Society in Cuba,1 and by
A. P. Warrington, who was his attorney in the case.
Probate was finally granted, terms with Senor Fuente’s widow
and children signed, and the matter settled. On 24 October,
Col. Olcott returned to India via New York, London and
Paris, and was in Adyar again on 6 December, to prepare
for Convention, with the help of F. Davidson (New Zealand),
who had joined the staff.
For the first time Mrs. Besant spent the whole year in
India. She travelled much in the North, combining the
exposition of Theosophy with ever increasing breadth and
beauty, with a resistless drive on behalf of education. She
strove to broaden the minds of the elders, men and women,
and induce them to support reforms, and held out to youth
the ideal of a nobler type of education, the preparation for
service and leadership in a reawakening India.
There was an enormous increase in attendance at Con­
vention. Mrs. Besant gave, 27 December, a lecture on “ The
Value of Theosophy in the Raising of India.” The audience
of 5,000 crashed through the barriers enclosing a space on one
of the lawns. At the first of the four Convention lectures
the crowds broke down the heavy western gates and rushed
into the Hall to hear her lectures on “ The Pedigree
of Man.” These lectures, when published in book form,
sold out in six weeks. In his Address the President
reported “ a year of gratifying success.” Though
1D ia ry .
no new
THE NEW CENTURY OPENS WITH PROMISE 349
Sections had been formed, yet 47 new Lodges had been
chartered, 21 in India. In referring to the success of the
Central Hindu College he said : “ The colossal achievements
of Mrs. Besant in promoting the Hindu religious revival
(begun when H. P. B. and I arrived in India in 1879), will
never be thoroughly appreciated until her biographer takes
up the story of her activities.” He declared that White Lotus
Day should be a “ Day of Remembrance ” and when “ we
gather together let it be a part of the programme of the
meeting to include in the discourse upon H. P. Blavatsky the
names of her greatest colleagues . .
Mr. Leadbeater had spent six months of this year in
Chicago conducting a class and lecturing weekly. He
produced two books of great value : Man, Visible and Invisible
with remarkable coloured plates of the various subtler bodies
of man ; and The Other Side o f Death, giving rationally the
evidence concerning the conditions of existence after so-
called death.
In America also a splendid band of members was
actively setting the seal of efficiency upon The Society’s
work.
1904. This year the President-Founder spent com­
paratively quietly in India. He concluded matters connected
with the Fuente legacy, which realised Rs. 250,705 (then,
the equivalent of £ 16,715-3-4). He was still planning for a
Buddhist Temple for the Pariahs and raised funds for their
schools, and spent much time preparing Old Diary Leaves for
publication. He was now more troubled with gout, which
affected not only his limbs, but his heart as well. Friends
began to urge him to incorporate The Society and to have a
Committee of management at Adyar. Both ideas were un­
welcome to him at first. When well enough he went on
occasional visits—to Tanjore in April, both for meetings of
The Society and to address Schools, and to Trichinopoly in
May for a Theosophical Conference. He spent some of the
350 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
summer in Ootacamund at his cottage, which he liked
so much.
At the Annual Convention or the English Section a
Resolution was passed requesting the President-Founder to
take immediately such steps as were necessary for the in­
corporation of The Theosophical Society. The President
thought this meant they wanted him to resign, but, being
reassured, he prepared “Articles of Association ” for considera­
tion. His frequent illnesses were causing many to ponder the
question of the next President. He visited Colombo
from 29 August to 21 September, mainly to give a
stimulus to the Temperance movement. He was taken in
procession in several places and at Colombo lectured to
6,000. His name and ;his presence still worked a magical
effect upon the people, who loved and revered him and
taught their children to do the same.
Until the end of January, Mrs. Besant visited a number
of towns, crowding each day with meetings and work, starting
at 6.30 a.m. and lecturing sometimes twice a day. Education
was her chief subject, also Hinduism in the light of Theo­
sophy, and she promoted the Central Hindu College
Magazine. She spent February and March in Benares and
left, 8 April, for Europe, passing through Rome, Florence
and Genoa, and speaking on Theosophy in each place. She
stayed in Paris a few days into which a number of meetings
were crowded. In London, during June, she again gave
several series of addresses : 1. At Albemarle St. on “ The
Science of Peace,” based on Bhagavan Das’s book of the
same title; 2. At Blavatsky Lodge on “ The Powers of
Darkness;” and at the Small Queen’s Flail on “ Theosophy
and the New Psychology.” The latter, when published as a
book, became one of the most popular ever issued. She
presided over the significant first 1 International Congress
1T h e V ahan, August, 1904. It was decribed as the “second" in T h e
T h co so p h ist. There had been previous International Congresses of the
European Section operating as a whole.
THE NEW CENTURY OPENS WITH PROMISE 351
■
o
f the Federation of European Sections, at which 600
delegates were present. The Congress was under the
direction of the Dutch members and provided “ days of un­
interrupted European fellowship.” These activities that
bound the members together in Brotherhood had the Presi­
dent-Founder’s warm approval.'
Mrs. Besant found it necessary, to protest against being
regarded as “ a sacrosanct personality beyond and above
criticism,” and against the alleged policy of “ ostracism”
against those who did not hold this view. Further, that “ in
all selections for office in the movement, the sole considera­
tion should be the power of the candidate to serve The
Society, and not his opinion of any person . . .”—a
recommendation she often repeated in the years to come.
As a preface to the British Annual Convention, Mrs.
Besant lectured in the Large Queen’s Hall, 1 July, on “ Is
Theosophy Anti-Christian ? An Answer to the Bishop of
London.” The General Business Meetings were presided over
by Mr. Sinnett, Vice-President. During July Mrs. Besant
visited seventeen English Lodges, and in several places pre­
sided over a Federation Conference. She went to Scandina­
via and Germany in September and almost everywhere
spoke on “ The New Psychology.” On her way back to
India she opened new Headquarters in Rome, 17 Novem­
ber, and a visit to the Vatican was arranged for her. At
the Annual Convention, Adyar, her subject was “ Theosophy
in Relation to Human Life.”
Mr. Jinarajadasa had begun to be internationally known
as a lecturer. He had been in Italy, where Mrs. Cooper-
Oakley was still the chief helper, and in September repre­
sented that Section at the Convention in Chicago of the
American Section, and lectured at the “ Post-Convention
Exercises." Other lecturers also had contributed to a year of
rapid expansion and greatly increased public interest in
The Society. “ There was not only gathering force in the
1 See G en er a l R e p o r t, 1904, p, 3.
352 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
countries where Sections already existed, but new centres of
activity were developing in Cuba, S. America and S. Africa
—it was a year of undiminished prosperity and important
results.” 1
1905. Bombay was the first Lodge in India to celebrate its
25th Birthday, 18 May. The President-Founder presided and
made a speech at the Framji Cowasji Hall, where he had
given his first address in India, 3 March 1879. He contrasted
the trials of those early days with the vastly different position
The Society had now attained.
On 3 April The Theosophical Society was incor­
porated, thus making it a “ legal entity.” On 15 May the
transfer of Headquarters was effected and it became the
property of The Society. Col. Olcott transferred both
Gulistan, at Ootacamund, and The Theosophist to The
Society. He received an application from Dr. Otto Schra­
der. P h. D., for the post of Librarian ; this was accepted,
and he took up his duties in September. He rendered
fine service to the Library, for which he procured rare manu­
scripts, and executed many scholarly translations of Sanskrit
works. On the outbreak of the Great War, 1914, he was
obliged to leave, and when his internment was over he took
up a Professorship in Germany. Foreign Libraries thanked
the President for the material Dr. Schrader circulated to them.
One event in September saddened the President, when
High Priest Sumangala, for thirty years a member, resigned
from the Society, through misunderstandings, and threatened
to cancel his certificate of Col. Olcott’s Buddhist Catechism
unless he took out certain specified Questions and Answers
from the 35th edition, which Sumangala had specially certified
for use in Buddhist schools.
F. Davidson returned from New Zealand and was
appointed assistant Recording Secretary and Treasurer. To
honour Mrs. Besant the President called the group of houses
1G en er a l R ep o r t, 1904, p. 2.
THE NEW CENTURY OPENS WITH PROMISE 353
near Headquarters, where Indians live, Vasantapuram—
Vasanta (the spring) being an Indianised form of Besant,
and puram meaning town or village.
Until May, Mrs. Besant spent her time travelling in India.
She addressed Lodges on Theosophy, constantly drawing
women into the Movement when and where possible, for at
that time they were unaccustomed to taking any part in
public life. She explained the relation of Theosophy to
religion and to life generally, pointing out its special
value in the “ Seeking of the Self.” She often spoke
to Boys’ Associations, to students, and to their elders, on
Education.
Mrs. Besant'left for Europe, 13 May, and stayed in Milan
a few days before going on to Budapest, where a Lodge was
founded. She stopped in both Strasbourg and Nancy long
■enough to give lectures, and then remained in Paris from
10-21 June. Here she not only lectured on and worked for
Theosophy, but attended the Supreme Council of Co-Free-
Masonry. In London she gave a series of talks to Blavat-
sky Lodge on problems of Discipleship, for members only,
and a public series on a similar subject. The European
Federation Congress was held in London, 8-10 July. These
Congresses “ gave definite proof that the objects for which
The Society was founded have become living realities.”
Arts and Crafts were again emphasised and in opening an
Exhibition arranged by members, Mrs. Besant said, “ nothing
is outside the realm of Theosophy that tends to serve, uplift
and ennoble humanity. And so, as Theosophy spreads, and
we more and more understand and bring into harmonic inter­
action the three worlds in which our evolution is taking place,
all ideas will find more beautiful, expression, and the world
of form will indeed manifest the divinity of man.” The first
public lecture, 7 July, of the Congress, on “ The Work of
Theosophy in the World,” was given by Mrs. Besant in the
Large Queen’s Hall, when every seat was occupied.
1T h e Ita lia n , August, 1905, p. 1.
23
354 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
“ Kindred Societies” participated in this Congress: Spiritual­
ism, Christian Mysticism, Rosicrucianism, etc.
Mrs. Besant arrived in Benares, 23 September, and
gave her attention to the C. H. College. She then toured
through northern towns until 25 December, when she reached
Adyar for the Convention, where 800 delegates had gathered.
At 7 a.m. on the 26th she lectured in the open to many
thousands on “ India Awakening." Her series of addresses
this year was on the Bhagaoad Gita. Mr. Leadbeater described
The Society’s work in the different parts of the world he had
visited.
In surveying the work of The Society for this year, it is
noteworthy that the Lodges everywhere held study classes,,
but not many Public Lectures. The favourite books were
A Study in Consciousness, Theosophy and the Neu) Psychology,
and The Secret Doctrine. In America Mr. L. W. Rogers had
come forward as a very active missioner,” and developed
an unusually attractive technique in his public work which has
been appreciated in many countries. Mr. C. Jinarâjadâsa,
“ opulent with University training and Theosophical erudi­
tion,” had been in Chicago most of the year. The situation
was well summed up by Mrs. Besant when she said : “ There
is a vast Theosophical Movement going on in the world, and
every department of thought is affected by it, and it is this
Movement that finds a partial embodiment in the Society, and.
spreads beyond it, far and wide, in every direction." 1
T h e T h eo so p h ist, Oct. p. II.
P R O B L E M S OP M O R A L IT Y
“ People often wonder why the various scandals, such as the
Coulomb and lesser ones which we have had to suffer were not foreseen
and prevented by the Masters, why H. P. B. was not forewarned of what
traitors would do ; and why in the seemingly most serious crisis, no help
came, no spiritual guide appeared. Of course, such questions imply the
absurdity that Mahâtmâs, who implicitly believe in and govern their own
actions by the strict rules of Karma, would take us, like so many puppets
on wire, or so many poodles being taught tricks, and put us through set
motions to the meddling with our Karma, and the consequent interference
with our rights. , . . ’
—H. S. O lcott
1906
T he President attended a reception in Madras to their
Royal Highnesses the Prince and Princess of Wales, and
was presented to them. The Prince asked him why he had
come to India, and what was his work. In February the
President added the elephant-masks which adorn the front
Library wall of Headquarters.
The British General Secretary having invited him to
make a tour in Great Britain, he left Dr. W. A. English in
charge of The Theosophist, and Mr. Soobiah Chetty super­
intendent of the general affairs of the compound. He
departed, 15 March, for Ceylon, where he took measures
against the opposition of Dharmapala, and vindicated his
own work in articles to the Ceylon newspapers. He made a
series of visits to schools and Colleges, and at Ananda
College suggested that Buddhists should build a Vihara for
the Panchamas in India, whom he hoped would embrace
Buddhism as a way out of their extreme misery. He
addressed the boys of Mahinde College, Galle, where
F. L. Woodward, M.A., F.T.S., a well-known Pali scholar,
356 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
was Principal. He visited schools within a radius of twenty
miles and, on returning to Galle, was taken in a long proces­
sion through crowded streets to the Temple where he and
H. P. B. had taken Pansil in 1880. The priests recited pirit
(prayers to protect him from all harm), and the crowd frankly
showed him its love and gratitude. It was the same at
Panadure, where the multitude again demonstrated its ap­
preciation of his long services to Buddhism. Thus closed
happily his visit to the Island he had loved and served
so well.
The President arrived in Southampton on Easter
Monday, 16 April, four days ahead of time, only to find that
there was no one to meet him except Mrs. Marie Russak, an
American member, who showed him every kindness. By
the time he reached London he found it necessary to deal
with the troubles which had arisen in connection with
Mr. Leadbeater (which had come to his notice while on
the way), who had been charged with giving improper advice
to boys.
Mr. Leadbeater, after the Convention, was touring
India, and arrived in Benares in February, 1906, where he
was the guest of Mrs. Besant at Shanti Kunja. During his
visit she received from Mrs. Dennis, Corresponding Secretary
of the E. S. in America, a letter in which she charged
Mr. Leadbeater with : I. Teaching boys given into his care
demoralising personal practices. 2. Doing this with deli­
berate intent and under the guise of occult training or with
the promise of an increase of physical manhood. 3. That he
had demanded, at least in one case, promise of the utmost
secrecy. She added the testimonies of the mothers of two of
the boys, explaining how they had come to know of the
difficulties.
These alleged facts had not been investigated, nor any
approach made to Mr. Leadbeater to give his side of the
story. A demand for enquiry and for her decision was made
to Mrs. Besant as Head of the E. S., and, in justice to
PROBLEMS OF MORALITY 357
Mr. Leadbeater, the American Section, and the whole Theo-
sophical Society, her decision was to be made known to them.
This letter and the demand were signed by Alexander
Fullerton, General Secretary, American Section, F. F. Knothe,
Assistant General Secretary, Helen I. Dennis, Corresponding
Secretary, American E. S. and Elizabeth M. Chidester, Asst.
Sec. E. S. They pledged their word that the matter should
be kept confidential.1 Mr. Leadbeater discussed these
charges with Mrs. Besant who, while sympathising with
his intention to help boys, disagreed entirely with his advice.
Mrs. Besant wrote fully to Mrs. Dennis and told her that
she knew Mr. Leadbeater better than to suppose him
capable of deliberate wrong doing. She was herself certain
of his good intent, though she disagreed with the advice he
gave in rare cases to boys approaching manhood. At her
request Mr. Leadbeater undertook not to give such advice
again, and offered at once to retire from active work. But he
then, and always, remained immovably of the opinion that
the remedy he had advised of dealing with the pressing
problems of puberty were far less dangerous than the accepted
conventional immoral solution of prostitution.
Mr. Leadbeater, under seal of confidence, gave his own
views quite frankly to Mr. Fullerton. He explained that the
work of discovering and training young people was put in his
charge, possibly because of the experience he had had all his
life of training young men and boys. He knew the harm
done by the prevalent habit of ignoring the subject of
sex, information about which should come from parents or
friends, not from servants or bad companions. He had
always spoken of it frankly and naturally to those he was
trying to help. Some boys come through to manhood
untroubled, but the majority are disturbed by sex instincts
and surround themselves with a mass of undesirable thought-
forms which keep them in a state of emotional ferment. He
said that in regard to one boy, in order to obviate this trouble,
1From copy of the Original Document.
3 5 8 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
of which he was clairvoyantly aware, he had advised a cer­
tain regulated practice. To about three other boys in
difficulty he had advised caution and the gradual overcoming
of their troublesome habits.' To the first boy he had written
in cipher, not only about his sex problems, but also on
another matter of higher purport, the development of which
was contingent not only on controlling the physical distress
but also on the mental necessity of out-growing it. On the
nature of this higher purpose Mr. Leadbeater was pledged
to secrecy and did not divulge it however fierce the attack
upon him or the misunderstanding of his motives, though to
Mrs. Besant he admitted its existence."’ The cipher letter so
much quoted against him he did not see till nearly two years
later.
Upon receiving these confidential communications, the
American authorities thought it necessary to take action. A
meeting of the Executive Committee of the American
Section was called and, after considering the docu­
ments, took the decision that Mr. Leadbeater should be
presented for “ trial ” to the Lodge to which he belonged.
When it was found that he was an English member
and Presidential delegate, an agent was at once sent to
England to see Col. Olcott, the General Secretary of the
British Section, the authorities of Mr. Leadbeater’s Lodge,
and Mr. Leadbeater himself, who was called the “ defend­
ant.” Mr. R. A. Burnett, Chicago, the agent, was armed with
much discretionary power. If Mr. Leadbeater agreed to
resign all connection with The Society and its work, it was
understood the prosecution before his Lodge would not
be pressed ; if not, his expulsion from the Society was
called for.
A ¡private meeting of enquiry was held by the British
Executive Commitee, 16 May. This unconstitutional court,
judge and jury, consisted of the President in the Chair,
1From copy of Original Letter.
2Mr. Leadbeater to Mrs, Besant, March 19, 1907.
PROBLEMS OF MORALITY 359
Mr. Sinnett, Dr. Nunn, Mr. Mead, Mrs. I. Stead, Miss E.
Ward, Miss K. Spink, Mrs. I. Hooper, Mr. B. Keightley,
Mr. W. H. Thomas, and Mr. A. M. Glass, who acted as
secretary. Mr. Burnett represented the American Section,
and Mr. P. Bernard the French. Mr. Leadbeater was in
attendance, on the understanding that the proceedings were
confidential.
The meeting was held at the Grosvenor Hotel, Bucking­
ham Palace Road, London. The President explained that he
had called the meeting as an Advisory Board to listen to
charges against Mr. Leadbeater, to his partial “ confession”
and to his rebutting evidence. Though Excutive power was
vested in himself, the President desired the meeting to advise
him, and he was prepared to act according to its “ judgment.”
After the documents were certified, Mr. Leadbeater said he
had nothing to add. He pointed out that he had taken the
trouble to give a detailed explanation to Mr. Fullerton, be­
cause he thought he was writing to friends, the four who had
originally written giving a solemn pledge that they would
take the greatest care that the matter would not become
known, nor would they allow even a hint to escape. Both
he and Mrs. Besant answered under that seal of confidence,
and had not expected their answers were to be laid before a
Section and the whole world. He had said exactly all he
■could say. He realised the majority of opinion would be
against the course he took, and would accept as less objec­
tionable a line of action he thought much worse. But, he
assured them, in his mind was no evil intent. He
thought his solution of a serious difficulty was far better than
the common solution. As The Society wished to clear itself
of all connection with that view, he had placed his resigna­
tion in the hands of the President-Founder, not because he
confessed to any evil intent, but because he wished to relieve
The Society from any supposed complicity. His beliefs re­
mained, but if his resignation were accepted it shut him off
from a certain kind of Theosophical work.
360 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Then followed many questions, some designed to force
Mr. Leadbeater to admit both undesirable action and evil
intent on his part. Great stress was laid on the fact that he
had not taken the parents into his confidence. When asked
if he intended to continue this course of teaching, he answer­
ed that as there was much feeling on the matter by people
whose views he respected, therefore he did not.
After Mr. Leadbeater left the meeting, Mr. Burnett and
others urged his expulsion ; finally, it was left to the Presi­
dent to accept his resignation, dated 17 May, after having
listened to certain charges against him and heard his expla­
nations. The matter did not end there. When all these
documents reached Mrs. Besant she felt that Mr. Leadbeater
had not spoken to her as fully as was borne out in the
Advisory Board, but he said he had held back nothing ; and
that his views on this matter were framed long before he joined
the Society. She wrote strongly to the E. S. members saying
she regarded his teaching as something worthy of the
strongest reprobation. Further she believed herself deluded
in having thought she had stood in the presence of “ the
Highest ” with Mr. Leadbeater, when such had been his
actions. As time went on she had reason, she said, to know
herself mistaken on this latter point. She kept in close touch
with Mr. Leadbeater, and though she knew he had no inten­
tion of taking any further notice of the charges, she thought
that as the whole matter had become public and The Theoso-
phical Society had been dragged into it, some definite answer
was necessary, and advised the lines along which this
answer should run. Mrs. Besant made it quite clear that
while she did not move from her objection to Mr. Leadbeater’s
advice, she was firmly prepared to stand by him as a friend
and in defence of his motives ; even though this friendship
led to opposition to herself and strong demands that she
repudiate and denounce Mr, Leadbeater, who would not, at
any time countenance the prosecution of anyone, no matter
what the provocation, for he was opposed on principle to all
PROBLEMS OF MORALITY 361
legal prosecutions. He let pass such breaches of confidence as
when Sinnett used a confidential explanation he had asked
for and had been given by Mr. Leadbeater ; and Herbert
Burrows’ publication of the minutes of the Private Advisory
Board whose honour Mr. Leadbeater had trusted, otherwise
he would not have spoken. Because of all this ill-advised
publicity, Mr. Leadbeater refused at all times to be held res­
ponsible for the turmoil it caused in The Society.1
For about two and a half years The Society seethed over
this affair. Masses of “ evidence ” against Mr. Leadbeater
were accumulated. Every admission of his to the Advisory
Board was made the basis of endless argument. Many held
that spiritual capacity and greatness went together with
observance of certain conventional physical moralities.
Mr. Leadbeater left England, and until his re-entry into
The Society lived quietly on the Continent, either in Brittany,
Sicily, or Germany, pursuing those investigations which were
embodied in Occult Chemistry. Also, he made many obser­
vations on “ Nature Spirits,” which were published in later
books and articles.
On 18 April, Mr. Jinarajadasa, touring in America, and
hearing of these charges against Mr. Leadbeater—as silence
had not been observed even before replies to the charge
could be received—wrote to Mr. Fullerton in his defence..
He pointed out that he had for many years lived in closest
intimacy with Mr. Leadbeater, and had never had any slight­
est reason to suspect him of the practices with which
he was charged, or of the unfounded suspicions which now
began to be circulated against him. Mr. Jinarajadasa did not
agree that Mr. Leadbeater’s solution of the problem was the
best, but he knew Mr. Leadbeater considered the world’s
solution of it by means of illicit sexual intercourse as un­
justifiable. Mr. Jinarajadasa thought that some day humanity
would discover the true solution of this problem.
1From Mr. Leadbeater’s Letters to Mrs. Besant over a number of
years.
362 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Mr. Fullerton took exception to these views in such
a way that Mr. Jinaraiadasa resigned his membership
in The Society. One Lodge in the United States invited
him to continue to lecture for it. The American Executive
Committee claimed it had the power to cancel the
Charter of any Lodge which invited him to speak. 1 o
Mrs. Besant this was so alarming a threat to liberty of thought
and speech that she determined to have the matter brought
forward at the Annual Convention, but felt it was a difficult
matter to press, as by that time the illness that had over-'
taken the President was so serious that the least excitement
might endanger his life.
After the meeting of the Advisory Board, the President-
Founder went to Paris, 18 May, where he was cordially wel­
comed by the many delegates coming from other countries to
attend the First International Congress, 3-5 June, under the
direction of Dr. Th. Pascal, the French General Secretary.
Among the delegates were M. Zifre, Spain ; Dr. Steiner,
Germany ; G. R. S. Mead, Mrs. and Miss Bright and a party,
England; R. A. Burnett, America ; Anna Kamensky and
Nina de Gernet, Russia ; G. N. Chakravarti, India ; Arvid
Knos, Sweden ; Dr. Nyssens, Belgium ; Capt. Boggiani and
Prof. Penzig, Italy, also Mrs. Cooper-Oakley ; A. Ostermann,
Alsace. Old members of the ’80’s called upon him.
The Congress, presided over by the President-Founder,
who gave an address, was a brilliant success. Dr. Pascal
was awarded the Subba Row Medal which the President had
brought from India. Col. Olcott was not at all well during
this stay in Paris, and suffered from gout in his right hand ;
nevertheless, he decided to accept Mr. Fullerton’s urgent
invitation to visit America. Fie left Paris, 1 July, for London,
and on the 7th presided over the British Section Con­
vention, managing to keep the more turbulent elements
quiet, for there was great excitement about the conclusions
of the Advisory Board, information about which had
leaked out.
PROBLEMS OF MORALITY 363
Though he was still far from well, the President went to
Brussels, 13 July, and next day gave an address in French to
members. He visited Antwerp, then went on to Amsterdam,
17th, where he was met by Mr. Schuurman, taken to his
house, and tenderly cared for by Mrs. Schuurman. There he
spent his 74th birthday, when congratulations were showered
upon him from many parts of the world. Friends helped
him with his correspondence, and by taking down to his
dictation further instalments of Old Diary Leaves. Feeling
better, the President left Holland, 15 August, accompanied
by Mr. Schuurman. In Boston he was interested to find
all his books in the Public Library, including his Inaugural
Address to the Society, which he had “ not seen for 25
years." The typist at the Library copied it out for him.
He lectured to members and had also a Question and
Answer meeting, which Mr. Jinarâjadâsa attended. He then
went on to Holyoke and lectured on the “ Dangers of
Psychism,” though the pain in his hand had returned and his
whole system seemed upset. At Toledo he lectured and
answered questions. In Chicago his rooms were crowded with
visitors, and he had little rest, though he was feeling ill and
very weary. Here there was much violent discussion about
Mr. Leadbeater’s case.
The Convention opened with a reception to do honour
to the President. At the subsequent meetings a crisis was
averted, through, he felt sure, the influence of “ The Lodge.”
He lectured publicly on “ The Dangers of Psychism.”
Dr. van Hook was elected as General Secretary, despite the
opposition of those who were antagonistic to Mr. Leadbeater.
The President then went on to New York, where he
issued an “ Executive Notice ” cancelling the diploma of
Mr. Jinarâjadâsa because of his defence of Mr. Leadbeater.
On 25 September he embarked, with Mr. Schuurman, for
Genoa. On 3 October he had a serious accident on board,
catching his foot on the edge of a step and somersaulting
1D ia ry , August 27, 29.
364 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
twice to the bottom of a flight of stairs, injuring his right
knee and bruising himself severely. He was carried ashore
at Genoa and taken to hospital, where he slowly mended.
But, though he was so ill, members brought their personal
worries to him to settle. Mrs. Kirby came almost daily to
take down his letters and attend to his correspondence.
After 28 days in hospital he left Genoa, 7 November, for
Adyar, accompanied by Mrs. Marie Russak.
At Colombo many friends came to meet the Presi­
dent and took him ashore. The doctors were called in,,
who said he was dangerously ill with heart disease, and
had him removed to a nursing home and kept perfectly
quiet. By 3 December he was sufficiently improved to be
taken to Mr. Schwarz’s bungalow, and in a few days was
permitted to leave for Adyar, where he arrived, ! 1 Decem­
ber, very happy to be home again and under the
devoted care of his friends. On the 21st the Master
M. came and told him to remain President until he left
his body.
Arrangements for Convention went on, and in all these
the President took a great interest. Mrs. Besant gave the
Convention Lectures on “ The Wisdom of the Upanishads.”
On 28 December the President was well enough to be
carried down to open the Convention and was greeted with
great enthusiasm. Mrs. Besant read his Presidential Address
for him. Amidst cheers, he was carried back upstairs, and
seemed none the worse forthis exertion. He was carried down
again on the 31st to close the Convention, to read over
to the assembly his Inaugural Address of 1875, and to
pronounce the closing words. He gave Mrs. Besant authority
“ to act for me as President.”
Throughout this year Mrs. Besant was travelling the
length and breadth of India, expounding with vigour the ideals
for which she stood and worked. All India was responding
to the call to liberty which she was sounding. She was
working assiduously for the establishment of a Hindu.
PROBLEMS OF MORALITY 365
University and wherever she went collected funds for its
endowment. Education and social reforms occupied her very
fully. In her public work for The Society she presented
inspiringly the many facets of Theosophy, especially the
meaning of Brotherhood, and gave larger and more universal
■application of the rules of Yoga.
Because of the state of Col. Olcott’s health, the question
of a new President occupied Mrs. Besant’s mind. She could
see no one more suitable for the office than Bertram Keight-
ley, for she felt sure that neither Mr. Sinnett nor Mr. Mead
would consent to take it, and she was herself so immersed in
Indian activities, and the building up of the Hindu University,
that she felt she would not have the time to give to the heavy
responsibilities such a position would entail.
1907 •
The President dictated a letter, 3 January, in which he
admitted that a serious though unintentional injustice had
been done to Mr. Jinarajadasa, because, apart from any
•question of charges, the procedure was invalid, and made it
necessary for me to annul the judgment.” But, he said,
Mrs. Besant had appealed to him for cancellation of the
judgment on far graver grounds, in that it expelled a member
for opinions only ' and thus threatens the liberty of thought
and expression in The Theosophical Society, a thing that all
my life long I have most rigorously guarded.” The General
Council asked him to seek the opinions of the General
Secretaries. Upon receiving their replies, the Council met
4 April and, by 16 votes to 2, resolved that the judgment be
annulled, and by 17 to 1 that the subject should not be re­
opened. The President thereupon annulled his previous
decision and reinstated Mr. Jinarajadasa. This judgment
was challenged in America on the ground that such reinstate­
ment by the Council was an invasion of the Presidential
authority. Mrs. Besant did not agree with that view, but in
366 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
order to leave no room for controversy as to Mr. Jinarajadasa’s-
position, she declared him reinstated when she became
President.
The President’s health improved a little, but he was
much troubled in his mind about his successor. “ There
seemed to be fault to find with everyone—some draw-back.”
He looked back over thirty-two years of strenuous service and
instant obedience to the slightest hint or wish of the Elder
Brethren, and wondered who would do the same in the
future. Since 1893 he had considered Mrs. Besant to be
the best equipped to become the next President of The
Society “ because—1. of her superior education ; 2. of her
splendid public record ; 3. of her literary and financial
ability ; 4. of her ardent, martyr-like devotion to truth.” '
His final thought was, “ The Masters must settle it.” He
was anxious, too, concerning the crisis still agitating The
Society about Mr. Leadbeater, which seemed only to increase
as time went on.
On the evening of 5 January, The Master M. and the
Master K. H. came, “ plainly visible, audible, tangible,” not
only to the President, but to those rendering him service in his
helplessness—Mrs. Besant, Mrs. Russak and her companion.
They told him to appoint Annie Besant as she was the best
fitted forthe office. The Masters approved the President’s wish
that Adyar should be kept as the Headquarters of The
Theosophical Society, and official residence of the Presidents,
for the time of their office, inasmuch as the property has been
bought by the Founders under Their [the Masters’] direct
inspiration.” They said also that Mrs. Russak (later
Hotchener) was to be one of Their best workers. He directed
Mrs. Besant to carry out certain business matters, and, after
settling these, she left to attend to urgent affairs in Benares.
On the 11th the two Masters came again and told the
President to write to Mr. Leadbeater and inform him that he,
the Colonel, had made too much haste in settling the case in
1Letter from Col. Olcott to Mr. Judge, Sept., 1893.
PROBLEMS OF MORALITY 367
London. The Master M. said it should not have been made
public. The Elder Brethren came on the 13th and heard
read the letter to Mr. Leadbeater and the article to be
published. They approved them, and the Master M. dictated
some points to go in the article, and urged that matters be
expedited.1
In this article it was stated that two groups had formed :
“ One, with an exaggerated moral sense, believes that the Teachers
of mankind cannot employ agents that are not above the weaknesses of
the physical body, and contact with whom would be supposed to morally
taint them. The other party considers that these invisible Teachers, in
order to reach the masses and especially to penetrate to the very depths
of human society, are forced to employ agents or messengers, who pos­
sess many of the failings of mankind. . . .”
To the President’s questions the Masters replied that
Mrs. Besant and Mr. Leadbeater had together worked with
Them on the higher planes ; neither was under a glamour in
these matters ; as to perfection of the instrument—where would
They find such ? No better examples could be found than
himself and H. P. B., the Founders, who, in spite of their
shortcomings, the Masters had not hesitated to use, for They
saw they could become loyal workers. As to the action
taken in Mr. Leadbeater’s case, They said that it was right to
call an Advisory Council to discuss the matter ; to judge the
teachings objected to as wrong ; to accept Mr. Leadbeater’s
resignation ; but, it was not right to have made the matter so
public, for his and for The Society’s sake this should have
been avoided.
“ It should be the sacred duty of every Theosophist," said the Master,
“ if he finds a Brother guilty of a wrong to try and prevent that Brother
from continuing his wrong doing, and to protect others from being con­
taminated by that wrong so far as is possible ; but it is also his duty as a
Theosophist to shield his Brother from being held up u n n e c e s s a r ily to
general public condemnation and ridicule."
Then, wrote the President, They gave through him Their
direct message to The Society, the substance of which was :
That those who believed in Their existence and that
They, Who were behind the Theosophical Movement, would
1D ia ry , i3 January.
368 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
continue to employ it as an agency for uplifting mankind and
must some times use imperfect instruments ; that members
should cease from disturbances and from rushing into dis­
sensions which undermined the Unity of Brotherhood and
lessened its strength. They were powerless to check dis­
turbances arising from the Karma of individual members, but
refusal to take part in such disturbances would aid Them.
The Law would adjust any seeming injustice. “ Hold to­
gether in brotherly love, since you are part of the Great
Universal Self . . . are your Brother’s sins not your
•own ? ” 1
The President issued an unofficial and preliminary notice
to the General Secretaries that he had “ appointed ”
Mrs. Besant as his successor. This was instantly objected
to on the grounds that he could only “ nominate,” before he
had time to send out a second and official notice, 21
January, that he “ nominated ’’ and commended her to the
voters. Even though she was the only candidate, the nomi­
nation had to be ratified by a two-thirds majority vote of the
whole international Society.
The President had a relapse on the 15th, so Mrs. Besant
was telegraphed for and on arrival took charge of all business
and arranged for Soobiah Chetty to act as superintendent.
The President-Founder desired her to carry on The Theo-
sophist, after his departure. By his written directions it passed
into her hands for the period of her life, with the right to
appoint the next editor.
On the 27th the Elder Brethren came again, including
the Master Serapis, Who directed that His letters should be
burned. They told the President and Mrs. Besant that
They watch over the interests of the Society, Sometimes the
Master M. came alone. On 3 February came four of the
Great Ones to tell the President-Founder his work was over.
They thanked him for his loyalty and his work in Their
interests. He was so overcome with emotion that despite his
1T h e T h eo so p h ist, Feb. 1907, p. 385, e t seq .
PROBLEMS OF MORALITY 369
weakness he sprang from his bed and prostrated himself be­
fore Them to embrace Their holy Feet. The Masters raised
him ; he took Mrs. Besant and Mrs. Russak in his arms and
begged them to carry on the work.1
The President weakened rapidly from 11 February and
sank quietly into a coma, which lasted until the 17th when he
left his body at 7.17 a.m.a In the afternoon a beautiful service
was held in the great Hall, and his body was cremated in
the palm grove, near the river. Early next morning the ashes
were carried down and cast into the sea.
Thus passed a devoted servant of the Elder Brethren, a
noble Theosophist and a true lover of humanity.
Upon the publication of the President’s article there was
a rush of violent argument on all the points mentioned—and
especially about the reality of the appearance of the Masters.'1
The British Section Executive unanimously took exception
to any authority of personal psychic phenomena as being
binding on The Society. Few seemed to realise there could
be no value in their arguments, since only those present on
such occasions had the power to judge, and for thirty-two
years the President had borne witness to the fact of appear­
ance to H. P. B. and himself, or to himself alone, of the
Elder Brethren in all moments of need in The Society. Nor,
since the Leadbeater crisis, now increased in intensity, did
many realise that they could not judge what constitutes
absolute morality in social life, as there are such contrary and
divergent practices and opinions in many countries.
Mrs. Besant took a simpler and more direct line of
action. She had written in February to all the Lodges in­
forming them that she had told the President, when he
wished to nominate her, she would only accept upon her
1D ia ry , entries by others.
- In his D ia ries, in O ld D ia r y L ea v es and in T h e T h eo so p h ist, Col. Olcott
often drew attention to the fact that the number 7was closely associated
with events both large and small in The Society and in his own life.
3See T h e T h eo so p h ist, April, 1907, Supplement, pp. xxxv, e t seq .
24
370 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHiCAL SOCIETY
Master’s personal command, which, she said, she had received.
She asked Mr. Leadbeater if he would publicly withdraw his
“ teaching ” and admit it as wrong. She was ready to stand
or fall with him, but she considered his teaching mischievous.
He deferred to her opinion, and agreed fully with her that
it was dangerous if promiscuously given, and he never
dreamed of so giving it. He had given his word not to
repeat the advice, and he would keep it.
Upon Mr. Sinnett, as Vice-President, devolved the
management of The Society during the election. He promptly
refused to allow Mrs. Besant to act as manager at Adyar,
considering her “ misled by the Dark Powers,” that the
teaching was all “ in the air,” and he disapproved of the organi­
sation of the Society. He appointed Mr. Frank Davidson
as his Deputy, to whom Col. Olcott had given the post of
paid Assistant Treasurer. He proved very obstructive, re­
fusing to carry out the resolutions of the General Council,
was inconsiderate to the workers, wasteful of property, and
police aid had to be sought by K. Narayanaswami Aiyer to
prevent him from bursting open the Shrine Room doors.
Davidson considered that as deputy of the Acting President,
he should have possession of the room.
In March, Mrs. Besant issued a statement entitled “ The
Basis of the Theosophical Society,”1 in order to challenge
opinion. She argued that the Spiritual Unity of Universal
Brotherhood exists. It is not made by The Theosophical
Society. “ It is a fact in Nature.” The Theosophical
Society is a nucleus thereof, and the recognition of the fa d ,
entitles a person to become part of the “ nucleus.” Clearly,
one who was admitted to the nucleus could also be expelled
or excluded. The only fitness and propriety necessary to
membership was a recognition of the Truth of Brotherhood.
Mrs. Besant recognised that an acceptance of this view would
mean keeping members who would discredit the Society in
the eyes of the ordinary men of the world, either by falling
1T h e T h e o s o p h ica l R e v ie w , March, 1907.
PROBLEMS OF MORALITY 371
below the accepted morality of the time and place, or by
rising so much above it as to be unintelligible and therefore
hated and suspected by average people. In The Society
religious liberty of opinion was secure. Did The Society
enforce a moral code, transgression of which is punishable
with expulsion ? She wrote : “ I do not consider that the
Theosophical Society has any moral code binding on its
members.” She thought the Society lived by The splendour
of its ideals, not by the rigidity of its lines of exclusion ; and
that we strengthen it in proportion as we love and pardon,
■and weaken it as we condemn and ostracise.”
On this challenge comment was fierce, and some con­
cluded that Mrs. Besant would be rejected. Mr. Sinnett said
that if the Presidentship was put into commission he was
willing to take it for the West, if someone else would take it
for the East. These ideas not being constitutional,
Mr. Sinnett set the time of voting for May, though some
Sections had already done so. Actually, in this election new
problems arose as to whether The Society would exercise
charity in one direction and in the other loyalty to the
choice of the Masters for the new President; a choice
demanding from members both discrimination and intuition,
for one of the special arguments against accepting Their
choice was the undesirability of “ psychic interference in the
government of The Society.”
Finding that there was nothing she could do in Adyar,
Mrs. Besant travelled about India on her educational and
social work, and lecturing to Lodges in the North, going as
far as Jammu. She left for Europe, 1 May, and spoke at the
European Congress at Munich. She was made President of
Honour of the Congress, and Dr. Rudolf Steiner President of
Work. To his “ unwearying power of work,” wide know­
ledge and deep devotion was due the rapid growth of the
German Section. Mrs. Besant then went to Paris, speaking
on Yoga, and to London where her lectures at Queen’s Hall
were crowded. She went on tour to Harrogate and Bradford,
372 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Edinburgh and Glasgow, meeting big audiences and arousing
enthusiasm.
On 28 June, Mr. Sinnett advised Mrs. Besant that the
returns showed an overwhelming vote in her favour. America
1319 for, 679 against ; Britain 1181 for, 258 against ; the rest
of the world 7072 for, 152 against; total voting strength at the
end of 1906, 12,984. The vote recorded in the United States
was taken by the officials as a vote of censure upon them­
selves, and they resigned.
Mrs. Besant handed over The Theosophical Review to
Mr. Mead. It ceased publication in 1909, when he left The
Society. Lucifer was then incorporated in The Theosophisl.
During July Mrs. Besant visited a number of towns in England,
her chief subjects being : The Objects and Work of The Theo-
sophical Society, for members ; and for the public : Psychism
and Spirituality ; Spiritual Life for the Man of the World ; and
The Value of Theosophy in the World of Thought. In
London her Queen’s Hall Lectures continued to be over­
crowded, her subject being : The Theosophical Society and
its Work and Place in the World.
In July Mr. Sinnett issued a statement, “ The Vicis­
situdes of Theosophy,” published also in his short-lived
magazine Broad Views, in which he pointed out that he
considered certain opinions held by many members to belong
to “ the mythology of the Theosophical Movement." They
were : 1. That through H. P. B. there came from the Masters
of Wisdom “ this mighty wave of regenerating thought which
is the product of clearly designed, specific action in the first
instance of those representing accomplished evolutionary
progress, spoken of as the Great Masters of Wisdom.” 2. That
H. P. B. was chosen by the Masters as Their representative in
the world and sent to inaugurate the Theosophical Move­
ment. 3. That the seed was sown with a conscious foresight
concerning the nature of the tree that would grow. He
thought also that the two figures who stood by Col. Olcott’s
bedside were not Those whom they seemed to be. Since
PROBLEMS OF MORALITY 373
these were Mr. Sinnett’s views, Mrs. Besant felt it imperative
to ask him to relinquish his office as Vice-President; this he
did, and she appointed Sir S. Subramania Iyer in his place.1
In the same month Mrs. Besant formed the H. P. B.
Lodge (London), “ to gather in younger and more vigorous
members,” and to free the Section from the overweighting in­
fluence of the Blavatsky Lodge. Mrs. S. Maud Sharpe was
elected President and Sidney Ransom Secretary.
Because there was a recrudescence of attacks upon
H. P. B., and no printed replies were available, Mrs. Besant
brought out a Transaction for the H. P. B. Lodge, called
H .P .B . and the Masters o f the Wisdom, in which she sub­
stantiated the reality of H. P. B.’s mission and her relation to
the Masters.
, In August, Mrs. Besant retired to Weisser Hirsch,
Germany, with a small group, among whom were Mr.
Leadbeater, Mrs. and Miss Bright, Mrs. Russak, Mrs. van
Hook. Mrs. Besant and Mr. Leadbeater pursued their re­
searches into occult chemistry, and some of the party assisted
by making notes and drawings/
Mrs. Besant crossed to America in September, to preside
over the Convention of the American Section. She gave an
important address, outlining the history of The Society, and
noting the fact that from time to time its members seem
inclined to forget, or even to deny, that its special signifi­
cance is that it was formed by the Elder Brethren to be one
of Their special agents in the world, “ Their Theosophical
Ship.” She recalled how H. P. B. had, in 1851, been advised
by her Master of her future work, and how she firmly
demanded always to be recognised as the servant of the
Elder Brethren, disregarding all scorn, ridicule, or disbelief in
her claim. The question of Their guidance was before them
again in the belief or disbelief in Their appearance and
1See G e n e r a l R ep o r t, 1907, p. 2, e l seq .
- The results of this delicate and difficult work are embodied in the
book, O ccu lt C h em istry .
374 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
advice to Col. Olcott. The other great question was : Ought
The Society to have a moral code ? Some demanded a penal
code, but that would be a denial of Brotherhood, for “ our
brother’s sins are our sins, our brother’s shame our shame.”
No one could define the degree of wickedness which should
justify expulsion from this nucleus of Universal Brotherhood.
She appealed that The Society should stand for the “ affirma­
tion of lofty ideals of morality and for strenuous efforts to live
up to them,” to the “ unfolding Divinity in man, and not to
the beggarly elements of coercive laws.”
After the Convention the President visited several
towns, and then returned to England. After some visits
and lectures, she went to Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Malmo,
Stockholm, Kristiania (where she had an interview with
the King of Sweden), and Góteborg ; and then to Milan,
Turin, Florence, Rome and Genoa. Throughout this
tour her chief subjects were : The Message of Theosophy
to the World ; Theosophy and Modern Science ; and The
Relation of Masters to Religion. She spoke on the same
subjects at Colombo (where she called on the aged Suman-
gala), Galle and Kandy. After a brief visit to Adyar she
went to Benares, for she was always eager to be present at
and preside over the Central Hindu College Anniversary
meetings. The Society held its Annual Convention—still
called “ Anniversary ”—in Benares. About 400 were present,
and Mrs. Besant’s lectures were entitled “ An Introduction
to Yoga.”
~The Master bade Mrs. Besant improve Adyar as a
spiritual centre and there build up a body of people, of mem­
bers only, harmonious and devoted, and make the conditions
suitable for an outpouring of spiritual energy from Them. . . .
A splendid sketch was given her of possibilities in the com-
V paratively near future.1
1From Mrs. Besant’s Letters.
U N D E R M R S. B E S A N T ’S L E A D E R S H IP
H. P. B. gave Theosophy to the World, H. S. Olcott gave The
Theosophical Society to the World. Each was chosen by the Masters
for the assigned work : which brought the greater gift ?
— A n n i e B e s a n t
We are not mile-stones, but pilgrims.
— A n n i e B e s a n t
1908
In pursuance of the Master’s directions to build up Adyar,
Mrs. Besant proceeded to add more property which
would make expansion possible. The original Adyar estate
consisted of 27 acres. In February she purchased from the
Prince of Arcot the adjoining 83 acres, on which stood a
large bunglow in charming grounds, and named it Blavatsky
Gardens, in memory of H. P. B. It was intended as a resi­
dence for European members. A further 21 acres which
extended along the shore were added and called Olcott
Gardens.
In order to link Adyar more intimately with the members
everywhere, Mrs. Besant founded, January, The Adyar
Bulletin, which existed until 1929.
Mrs. Besant made Adyar her headquarters and chief
place of residence, but visited other towns. She continued
to emphasise national and religious ideals in education and
the duty of The Theosophical Society to India. In January
a young Parsi, B. P. Wadia, came to live at Adyar. He
was zealous, capable, and devoted to Mrs. Besant. He was
given charge of and rapidly developed the Theosophical
Publishing House. In February A. Schwarz came. He
r
)
#3
%'
376 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
had joined in 1895, and was already a generous benefactor to
The Society. He resigned his post as manger of the Swiss
firm of Volkart Bros, to devote himself to The Society, and
on arrival in Adyar was made Treasurer, a position he held
until 1933, when he retired to Switzerland, and passed away
the same year. He assisted in the purchase of Shanti Kunja,
Benares (1895), and gave the cost of Damodar Gardens,
(1910), besides continuous gifts for the development of Adyar,
the promotion of The Society’s objects, and the constant
support of the Olcott Panchama (Harijan) Schools. Among
other devoted workers at Adyar were G. Soobiah Chetty
(joined 1882), Superintendent of the estate ; B. Ranga
Reddi, (joined 1882) supervisor of various departments (died
1937) ; A. K. Sitaram Shastria (joined 1892) the builder-up
of the Vasanta Press ; and Miss A. J. Wilson, the per­
sonal attendant upon Mrs. Besant for about 40 years
(died 1937).
The Elder Brethren advised Mrs. Besant to make the
E. S. into a Second Section of the Society in intention and
purpose, as in the early days ; and They would again con­
stitute Themselves as the First Section, not according to Rules,
but in fact. . . On a memorable occasion, 27 February,
not only They but one of the Chiefs of the Hierarchy,
and also H. P. B., came, Their presence being strongly felt by
all, and seen by some. The Master M. said : “ The First
Section has come again to its own Shrine Room.”
To assist in this building-up of Adyar, Mrs. Besant
hoped that as soon as Mr. Leadbeater was reinstated,
he would live there and help. He still adhered to his
determination not to seek readmittance, as he considered
The Society had made a mistake, though he was quite
prepared to rejoin if Mrs. Besant and others wished
him to do so, and he left the guidance of this question
entirely in her hands. He received at last a copy of
the “ cipher letter,” and the name of the boy to whom it
was addressed. He feared that this letter was not really a
UNDER MRS. BESANTS LEADERSHIP 377
“ copy ’’ of the original, but one in which words had been
transposed and thus made to seem what was not intended.
Also, it appeared to him that there were insertions that he
did not remember or recognise. He averred that there was
never any boy with whom he had dealt who fell into “ daily
habits ”—these words were pure invention. It is on record in
the Archives that one person at least was sure that the
“ cipher ” letter was not a correct copy of the true original.
Feeling was arising that after all Mr. Leadbeater had
been “ wronged,” and that restitution should be made. In
America that feeling had already found expression in electing
new Sectional officers. About the end of 1907, and then
fairly regularly, Mr. Leadbeater was answering questions in
the American journal The Theosophic Messenger. Strong objec­
tion to this was raised by the opposing group. Dr. van Hook
took a referendum, which showed 1245 in favour of their
continuation and 285 against. The malcontents banded into
various groups, and hoped to find enough support to form
independent organisations.
Mr. Sinnett was at this time, March and April, engaged
in a controversy with his friend Sir Oliver Lodge on the con­
stitution of matter, and appealed to Mr. Leadbeater to use his
clairvoyant powers to obtain further information. Sir Oliver
was circulating privately a pamphlet on the constitution
of Aether. In pursuing this enquiry Mr. Leadbeater found
that if he
“ unwound all successive spirillae of the atom down to the very last,
we get an enormous circle ofthe very finest conceivable dots or beads, all
exactly alike. . . Pushing the enquiry back to its utmost limits [he]
. . . finds . . . atoms of all planes which one can reach, including
the buddhic, are made of them, so that we must regard them as the funda­
mental units of which all material on every plane within reach is com­
posed. These units are absolutely simple in construction and the curious
thing is that though they are the basis of all matter, they are not them­
selves matter ; they are not blocks, but bubbles in a perfect fluid, which
fluid may be regarded as the Mulaprakriti 1of our Solar System or pos­
sibly of our Universe. Each of these bubbles, which seem empty to the
highest sight which we can bring to bear, must really be filled with the
Root matter.
378 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
force of the Logos, and the strange thing is that it is o f these fragments of
force, so to speak, that the whole Universe is built. . . It is a true
creation, a veritable making ofsomething out of nothing. 1
Mr. Leadbeater sent these observations to Mrs. Besant
and asked her to verify them step by step, as he did not wish
to mislead anybody. This she did, and after much careful
checking and verification the results of the investigations were
published in Occult Chemistry.
In the April Theosophist, Mrs. Besant noted the change in
attitude of the official class in India towards The Theosophic-
al Society, which had begun a couple of years previously,
and the goodwill then generated had continued.
The Theosophical Society has come to be regarded as a peace­
maker and making for good order and able to widen and improve social
conditions and shape education on religious and moral lines. . . . The
true reason for the changed feeling and the influence wielded is the
presence of the Masters behind the Society, the use of it by those mighty
lovers of India to safeguard the country during the crisis through which it
is passing, a crisis brought about by Their infusion of life into Their
Motherland."
On 16 May Mrs. Besant left Colombo, and on the 26th
arrived in Fremantle, to begin a long tour in Australia, New
Zealand and Tasmania. She gave to the work a greatly added,
impetus, and her subjects both to the public and to members
covered the whole range of Theosophical thought and teach­
ing. In Sydney, a Company was formed to give the Section
a permanent Hall and Headquarters. Land was already
bought and Mr. T. H. Martyn was pushing matters forward.
Upon her return Mrs. Besant went on to Benares where
she formed, 1 October, the “ Sons of India." She was
anxious to ensure the “ training of men and women into
noble citizenship, and of building up the coming generation
in true piety and patriotism," ready for the future. The pledge
of the Order was twofold : 1. To promise to treat as Brothers
Indians of every religion and every province ; 2. To make
Service the dominant Ideal in life. There was a similar pledge
1See O ccu lt C h em istry , published 1908, on Aether of Space, for a
fuller description than this, which is taken from Mr. Leadbeater's Letter
to Mrs. Besant, April, 1908.
UNDER MRS. BESANTS LEADERSHIP 379
for the Daughters of India. The Chief of the Order was
Mrs. Besant, and the Editor of the magazine, The Sons o f India,
G. S. Arundale. An important Council was slowly formed.
When the papers were put before the Viceroy, Lord Minto,
he thought “ the idea sound ” and hoped for permanency of
the principles on which it was based. Mrs. Besant im­
mediately began to travel about forming Lodges of the
Order and securing for it all over the country the sup­
port of British government officials and influential Indians.
Further, she was urging upon parents, and teachers
fuller observance of their duties, and giving to youth an
inspiring ideal of the spiritual life of students. She was
standing firmly against the anarchy which began to show
itself in some political circles. All this was really the
beginning, under “ direction,” of her later political work.
Mrs. Besant returned to Adyar, 5 November, to open
Blavatsky and Olcott Gardens. On 14 December she wel­
comed Mr. J. R. Aria, a Parsi member from Bombay, who
had come to relieve Mr. W. B. Fricke as Recording Secretary.
Mr. Aria filled this post with great efficiency and devotion till
he passed away in 1928.
The Convention Lectures were given by Miss Lilian
Edger on “ Gleanings from Light on the Path." On the 30th
Mrs. Besant spoke on “ The Opening Cycle,” when she
appealed to the members to labour with her *' in the name
of Theosophy, for the peace of nations and the enlighten­
ment of the world.”
During Convention the question of Mr. Leadbeater’s
reinstatement was dealt with. All through the year it had
been a burning problem, and as the time of voting drew near
opposition grew almost incredibly bitter and violent. State­
ments for and against were issued, masses of “ evidence ”
accumulated, and it may be remarked here that though this
and other “ evidence ” was pressed upon the police on future
occasions, there never was in it anything of such a nature as
would enable them to take action. Dr. van Hook was
380 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
inspired by an Elder Brother and H. P. B.—who had become
indignant at the long continued injustice shown to Mr. Lead-
beater, and at the attempt to drive Mrs. Besant from public
view—to issue two statements in April and May, calling a
halt to the vituperation of both leaders. This was answered
in America by a yet mote fierce attack expressed in a short­
lived magazine called The Theosophic Voice ; and in Britain
by the issue to private members of the confidential report of
the 1906 Advisory Board, and by other means to prejudice
their votes. Despite all this the Northern Federation,
England, sent from its meetings in Manchester, a telegram
of “ warmest greetings ” to Mr. Leadbeater, and private
members offered him support and welcome.
In September, Mrs. Besant issued “ A Letter to The
Theosophical Society ” (commended by the General Council)
in which she reviewed the situation. She refused all
attempts to have a “ re-trial ” of the case. The General
Council, in considering the proposal for Mr. Leadbeater’s
reinstatement, reaffirmed the principle laid down in the Judge
case, 1894, that no charge could be brought against a mem­
ber regarding belief or non-belief in Masters, and remained
neutral as to the authenticity or non-authenticity of any
statement issued as from Them. It was left to the individual
member to assert or deny the genuineness of such statements.
In this case it was seen how violent feeling and controversy
was over the actions and opinions of one member, which it
was perfectly clear The Society could not control. The
Council therefore reaffirmed by a vote of 23 out of 25, of
which 13 were votes of the 14 Sections, the
Inviolable liberty of thought of every member of The Theosophical
Society in all matters philosophical, religious and ethical, and his right
to fo'low his own conscience in all such matters, without thereby im­
perilling his status within The Society, or in any way implicating in his
opinion any member of The Society who does not assert his agreement
therewith. That in pursuance of this affirmation of the individual res­
ponsibility for his own opinions, it declares there is no reason why
Mr. C. W. Leadbeater should not return, if he wishes, to his place in The
Society which he has in the past served so well.
UNDER MRS. BESANTS LEADERSHIP 381
The voting for the reinstatement of Mr. Leadbeater was
21 out of 24 votes. He accepted the invitation to return.
Perhaps the greatest gain to The Society out of all this
conflict was the conviction that it had strength to stand
unbroken amid the shaking of conventions to their very
foundations. From that conviction came a clearer under­
standing of the charity that characterises true Brotherhood.
Mrs. Besant announced at this Convention that she had
constituted a “ Theosophical Order of Service,” in response
to the wish of a number of members who desired to organise
themselves for various lines of service actively to promote the
First Object of The Society. Under this Order Leagues
might be formed for any special purpose on which a group of
members were agreed. The Chief officer was to be the
President of The Theosophical Society, and the Central
Council was to consist of F. T. S. only, but non-members
could serve on local councils. There were already 34
Leagues enrolled under the Order and others were being
formed. Ever since its Constitution the Order has done an
immense amount of good work in a number of departments.1
Mrs. Besant, writing in The Theosophist,' said that the inspira­
tion of this new Order may be found in an article by a
Master of the Wisdom in Lucifer, Jan., 1888, which was “ as a
trumpet call, summoning The Theosophical Society to take
up its great role as the pioneer of the Religion of Humanity,
which will be the Mother of a new civilisation, and to prepare
to lay the foundations of that civilisation in a way worthy of
future master builders.” The Order aimed at making
Theosophy practical, for she felt that “ The Theosophical
movement must go in front of the great Socialistic movement
which is spreading over Europe.”
The list of T. S. publications and magazines for this
year was impressive. Many well known names appeared as
1See list o f organisations promoted by members of The Society at
the end of this book.
2 M arch, 1908, p. 487.
382 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
authors, and translations and original works were listed in
about sixteen languages. There were 19 English magazines,
4 French, 6 Spanish, 4 Dutch, 4 German, 2 Italian, 4 Hindi,
2 Gujerati, and 1 each in Bulgarian, Swedish. Finnish.
Hungarian, Russian, and Sinhalese.
1909
During January the President visited ten or more South
Indian Lodges, her main subjects for lectures being the
-application of Brotherhood to Social Life and the signs of
a Closing and an Opening Age. Mr. Aria purchased and
presented to her the plot of land, about 20 acres, at the
corner where the Adyar river runs into the sea, and named
it Besant Grove. She went to Bombay and Allahabad,
repeating the same themes, preparing men’s minds for the
great changes about to be inaugurated in the world.
At the end of March the Central Hindu College bought
Mrs. Besant’s house in Benares, Shanti Kunj. The proceeds
of this sale she put into the purchase of Blavatsky Gardens,
Adyar. Mr. George S. Arundale, who had been acting for a
year as Vice-Principal at the College, was appointed Princi­
pal in place of Dr. Richardson, who was ill, and also
disaffected. Miss Lilian Edger, whose fine services as a
lecturer had been so much appreciated, elected to follow
Babu Upendranath Basu, and assist him in the formation of
an Independent Theosophical Society, of which little was
heard. She rejoined The Society, but never again took so
active a part in its work. The Indian Section elected
Jehangir Sorabji as its General Secretary, and with firmness
and devotion he restored peace.
Mr. Leadbeater, with Mr. van Manen, arrived in Adyar,
10 February. Mr. Leadbeater settled into the octagonal
bungalow and was given charge of The Thcosophist during
Mrs. Besant’s frequent absences, especially at this time when
her work for India seemed to expand so greatly, with the
UNDER MRS. BESANTS LEADERSHIP 383
confidence of the Government behind her, and the people
supporting her. Mr. Leadbeater began a series of “ roof-
talks ” covering a very wide range of subjects, and giving
explanations of the “ occult ” side of things. Many of
these talks have been published in his books. He began
also his comments on The Voice o f the Silence, which are to
be found in Tal/^s on the Path o f Occultism, combined with
comments made by Mrs. Besant on the same book. He
was also checking and preparing for publications some
investigations previously made on the past lives of various
people, as well as other investigations for inclusion in Man :
Whence, How and Whither. To extend the range of his
investigations, he chose as subject a small boy, J. Krishna-
murti, then living with his father on the compound. To
Mr. Leadbeater’s surprise he found that the child had
behind him a past of great importance, and he wrote to
Mrs. Besant that surely the boy “ is not here by accident.”
He began to take an interest in and teach him and his
brother, Nityananda.
With the coming of Mr. Leadbeater to Madras, there
were echoes of the attacks made upon him. It was alleged
that opponents were trying to bribe people to induce them to
put adverse letters in one of the Madras papers. In Ceylon,
where similar echoes of trouble were led by Dharmapala,
the Rev. Spurgeon Medhurst, who had long been a mis­
sionary in China, but whose Theosophic leanings had lost him
his post, went to pull things together.
During April the Vasanta Press was opend by
Mrs. Besant, and A. K. Sitarama Shastri was installed as
Manager. In 1936, old age overtaking him, he yielded his
place to Mr. Subbarayudu, his able assistant and colleague.
Mrs. Besant left India at the end of April and arrived
in London, May. She realised that it was mainly in England,
among the few, that opposition to Mr. Leadbeater remained
so strong. When the small but clamorous group found that
it was no longer listened to, Mr. Mead resigned his position
384 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
as editor of The Thcosophical Review. Mr. Mead, supported
by friends, formed an association for mystical research,
entitled “ The Guild of the Quest.” He passed away in
1933. In March Mr. Sinnett also resigned from The Society,
and rather arbitrarily changed the London Lodge into the
Eleusinian Society. In Dublin, George Russell, (/E) and
others formed a Hermetic Society.
Mrs. Besant undertook a series of lectures in London,
this time at the large Queen’s Hall, holding 3000, which was
so crowded that people were turned away. There had been hos­
tile threats of disturbance and a certain stirring up of animosity
in some newspapers, which she refused to answer. Her
lectures were issued as a book with the title The Changing
World, in which she described the deadlocks in Religion,
Science, Art and Social Conditions, and gave the Theo-
sophical Key to the unlocking of each. The Christian Common­
wealth, then a journal with a large circulation, published
full reports of these lectures.
The President went North, touring the larger towns and
meeting with packed audiences. From 30th May to 1st
June she attended and lectured at the happy European
Congress at Budapest, when 250 delegates were present.
She returned, via Brussels, to England, where she again went
on tour, rebuilding The Society in Britain, forming new
Lodges and filling old ones with fresh enthusiasm and
capping all by a splendid Convention.
In early August Mrs. Besant went to America, lecturing
at New York, and then at other towns on her way to Chicago.
Her lectures were usually on The Coming Christ; The Coming
Race ; or Life Here and Hereafter. Upon her arrival in the
United States, Mrs. Tingley at once opened a campaign of
slander and tried to stir up the Press against her, circulating
the odd notion that Mrs. Besant did not teach Theosophy.
Mrs. Besant refused to answer these attacks, saying to
reporters that she was there to work for Theosophy and had
no time for slanders. So violent became the opposition that
UNDER MRS. BESANTS LEADERSHIP 385
•one paper in San Francisco said Mrs. Tingley’s pamphlets
should be stopped as indecent. Despite threats, Mrs. Besant
went on to San Diego, where she had a sympathetic
reception—though Mrs. Tingley made every effort to pre­
vent it. Wherever Mrs. Besant stayed in hotels these
unpleasant pamphlets followed. They were issued under
the name of J. H. Fussell, Secretary of the Universal
Brotherhood and Theosophical Society. In the Introduction,
Dr. Kenneth Morris dared to argue that “ teaching boys,
under a pledge of secrecy, a private vice,” . . . was the
inner teaching, “ a secret propaganda of vice,” which
Mrs. Besant and Mr. Leadbeater were to make “ public as
the world becomes prepared for it.” Reflecting on her tour
and on Mrs. Tingley’s “ tireless malignity ” against The
Theosophical Society, Mrs. Besant, while paying tribute to
her force of character and business capacity, regretted that
she had “ broken into pieces the great organisation which
Mr. Judge had build up by years of patient toil. . .” 1
During this journey in the south-west, Mrs. Besant was
on the lookout for the possible situation of the future Colony
as envisaged in Man. She wondered whether North Texas
or West Oklahoma or New Mexico would be suitable. She
commissioned Mr. Warrington to look for a location and
to start a centre. From time to time she encountered
Mr. Jinarajadasa who was lecturing in the States, and with
his gift of speech and his enthusiasm was building up new
Lodges and revivifying others. In September, the Conven­
tion was held in Chicago, and despite some still active
opposition there was the up-springing of new life. The
President spoke on “ The Signs of an Opening Age.” In
this address she referred to the leaders of those “ end of
the century movements ” which have such a profound influ­
ence in the world, even though they seem at the time to be
but struggling pioneer minorities against strongly entrenched
•conventionalities.
1T h e T h eo so p h ist, Nov. 1909, p. 170.
25
386 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Continuing her tour the President went to Cleveland and
Boston. In all she visited thirty-one Lodges. Arriving in
Ireland in October, she lectured in Dublin and started two
new Lodges. After a few meetings in London she then
went on to the Continent, speaking on : The Work of The
Theosophical Society ; The Return of the Christ ; The New
Era ; The Coming Race. She visited several towns in
Holland. Belgium, Switzerland, France and Italy, arousing
great enthusiasm. She arrived in Adyar 27 November.
Mrs. Besant at once made contacts with the Government
to discuss the social and educational development of India,
and in December went to Calcutta to pursue this line of
advance. At this time she very strictly disallowed any talk
on politics from the Theosophical platform, as the political
atmosphere was difficult and she did not wish to excite it in
any way. At The Society’s Anniversary, held in Benares,
she gave two lectures : 1. Mysticism and Occultism, and
2. The Work of The Theosophical Society. Babu Bhagavan
Das gave four Convention Lectures on “ The Laws of Manu
in relation to Theosophy,” which were published as The Lauls
o f Manu or The Science o f Social Organisation.
Looking back over this year it will be seen how tremend­
ous an energy it required to rebuild in so many countries, on
three continents, the confidence in the mission of The Theo­
sophical Society and stir willingness in thousands to devote
themselves to that mission. In the December Theosophist Mrs.
Besant, speaking of her own occult training, said she was told
to work with her own Master to train for her far-off future as
the Manu of the 6th Root Race. She began to develop that
ability to handle men and affairs, indicative of deep insight
and prophetic vision, and therefore of confidence in the future.
1910
At the beginning of 1910 the President felt that the
storms were really over and that a fairer “ cycle of the future
UNDER MRS. BESANTS LEADERSHIP 387
has opened.” In The Theosophist, June to October, 1932,
Mr. Jinarajadasa published extracts from letters which
Mr. Leadbeater wrote at this time to Mrs. Besant concerning
the progress and education of J. Krishnamurti and his brother
J. Nityananda. They were published, Mr. Jinarajadasa said,
for the “ information of those who trusted in Dr. Besant and
Bishop Leadbeater and to a lesser extent in Bishop Arundale
and myself, when we worked to prepare for the Coming.
The past cannot be brushed aside as non-existent ; thousands
in that past sacrificed at our call time, devotion and money
for Krishnaji and for Krishnaji’s later work.” A careful
perusal of these letters, 1909 to 1913, will show the care
taken and training given to him by all who were concerned
with the development of events as preparation for the
Coming of a ‘‘ World Teacher.” The Great One known
as the Lord Maitreya who, in the Occult Hierarchy has
charge of the Religions of the world, watched, it was said,
over this training and suggested many of its details for He
wished “ the body to get used to expressing Me. Remember
his presence carries with it My Benediction and that of My
greater Brother.” '
On 11 January the Initiation of Krishnamurti into the
Great Brotherhood took place. It is usually explained that this
Initiation is an act of entry by a human Soul or Ego, when
the time is ripe, into a new stage of growth, concerned with
the development of the Inner Self to acquire a knowledge of
and gradually to undertake co-operation with wider and
subtler reaches of natural Law. The ceremony which accom­
panies the act is conducted by the Elder Brethren Who, by
virtue of Their own great attainments, are the Guardians of
the Portals to these inner kingdoms. While being prepared
for this ceremony, Krishnamurti jwas taught, by the Master
K. H., the true laws of life and conduct which have been
taught to such candidates through all ages. These simple
yet profound teachings Krishnamurti wrote down or
1The Lord Gautama Buddha. See T h e T h eo so p h ist, Nov. 1932, p. 160.
388 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
dictated to Mr. Leadbeater. They were then issued in
the small book called At the Feet o f the Master, 1910, and
were signed by Krishnamurti’s “ star” name, Alcyone.
This ‘ star ” name meant only that when investigations into
his previous lives were undertaken, he and the people with
whom he was associated in those lives were given names of
stars, to secure for them a certain amount of anonymity.
In March, Mrs. Besant was assigned guardianship of the
boys^ by their father. He was a man of variable tempera­
ment and presently professed dissatisfaction with the situa­
tion and raised difficulties. But, as Mrs. Besant and
Mr. Leadbeater were given charge by the Elder Brethren of
the care, guidance and protection of the boys, she deemed it
advisable to take them with her when she left for the north
in September.
During the early part of the year, Mrs. Besant was deeply
engaged in social and educational work for India. She ex­
plained everywhere The Value of The Theosophical Society
to India ; The T.S. and World Evolution ; and The Necessity
for Religious and Moral Education. She was keenly interested
in securing a Government Charter for a Hindu University,
and to that end interviewed authorities, and appealed for the
necessary endowment fund. She was also making a campaign
against Child Marriage, a subject that had occupied her
attention for years, but in those days had to be approach­
ed cautiously, so as to build up public opinion without too
much opposition. Since 1929 marriage before 14 for girls
and 18 for boys is forbidden by law.
In April, Mrs. Besant was touring, despite the heat, in
Gwalia, Alwar, Ranchi and other places to interest the rulers
of States and the T.S. Lodges in her educational plans ;
and to uphold the Hindu ideals of life, for youth, for women, for
the world and for those who sought above all things a spiritual
conception of life. From May to September she was mainly
at Adyar, though she left occasionally to preside over Fede­
ration or District Conferences, to visit a Lodge, to stimulate
UNDER MRS. BESANTS LEADERSHIP 389
educational ideals, or to promote the Sons of India Order.
During August and September Mrs. Besant and Mr. Lead-
beater were much engaged in making a series of clairvoyant
investigations into the past of this earth, of the moon, and of the
two preceding evolutionary cycles, involving a study of the
series of globes comprising them, usually called a “ Chain.”
Their descriptions were taken down by the students present.
Occasional help was given them “ by the Elder Brethren in
the way of broad outlines here and there and dates where
necessary.” These notes were prepared and included in
1913 in the book, Man : Whence, How and Whither.
On 25 September, Mrs. Besant left with her party for
Benares, which she made her headquarters till the middle of
November. Starting 15 October, she made a ten days
tour which took her north to Jammu. Then back through
Delhi and Cawnpur, where six thousand attended her
lecture. Her subjects on this tour were mainly—The World’s
Spiritual Leaders ; World Evolution and its Leaders.
In November news was received of the passing of Coun­
tess Wachtmeister, who had served The Society so well in the
earlier years. Mrs. Besant returned to Adyar in early December,
to make ready for a memorable Convention. About 1200 mem­
bers were present and were accommodated in the extended
premises. The unusually large number of overseas delegates
were able to use the two floors of Leadbeater Chambers,
which were ready.1 France, Scotland, Holland, England, the
U. S. America, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa,
Burma and Ceylon sent personal representatives. Among
them were Mrs. Windust (Holland), Irving S. Cooper
(U.S.A.), Mr. and Mrs. Alan Leo (England), Charles Blech
(Gen. Sec., France) and D. Graham Pole (Gen. Sec.,
Scotland).
The Convention began with Mrs. Besant’s lecture on
“ The Opening of a New Cycle.” Mr. Arundale gave the
1The first large reinforced concrete building in India erected by a
public body.
390 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
four Convention Lectures on “ The Growth of National
Consciousness in the Light of Theosophy.”
Reviewing the year, the President pointed to the progress
made. Scotland, Poland and Switzerland had organised
National Societies. The U.S.A. showed extraordinary, and
other countries steady advance. Sydney had acquired a new
Headquarters. The membership stood at 20,356 active
F.T.S. It had been a year of generous gifts. Besant Gard­
ens had been purchased, chiefly by Alfred Ostermann ;
Darnodar Gardens by A. Schwarz ; Alsace Grove by the
Blech family (France) ; the Bhojanashala, for Indians, was the
gift of B. Ranga Reddi, and Leadbeater Chambers was
donated by Charles Harvey. Many books had been given
for the Library. Theosophical propaganda throughout the
world was flourishing : in Europe by Dr. Steiner ; America
by Mr. Jinarájadása ; India by K. Narainswami, T. Rama-
chandra Rao and Miss K. Browning. Educational activities
expanded in India and Ceylon, directed by Theo-
sophists.
1911
On 1 January the Convention ended with a lecture under
the Banyan Tree by Mrs. Besant on “ The White Lodge
and .Its Messengers.” She closed with the invocation
which became generally used in the Order of the Star in
the East :
“ O Master of the great White Lodge, Lord of the religions of the
world, come down again to the earth that needs Thee, and help the
nations that are longing for Thy presence. Speak the Word of Peace,
which shall make the peoples to cease from their quarrellings ; speak
the Word of Brotherhood, which shall make the warring classes and
castes to know themselves as one. Come with the might of Thy love,
come in the splendour of Thy power, and save the world which is longing
for Thy coming, Thou who art the Teacher alike of gods and men.”
In 1910 Mr. Arundale had started among the boys of
the Central Hindu College a private Order called, “ The
Order of the Rising Sun of India.” It was intended to draw
UNDER MRS. BESANTS LEADERSHIP 391
together those of his scholars who believed in the near
coming of a great Teacher, and he did not expect it to spread
beyond the limits of the College. The Trustees did not ap­
prove of this activity. On 11 January 191 1, the Order was
made public, because Mrs. Besant found that many people
“ were ready for just such a Society.” In July she changed
the name to “ Order of the Star in the East,” and asked
Krishnamurti to be its Head. Combined with this activity
was a group of people devoted to Mrs. Besant and prepared
to assist her in every way. By 1912 the Order was re-grouped
with Krishnamurti, Mrs. Besant and Mr. Leadbeater and
others as the inner group, using purple insignia, then a second
group wearing golden-yellow shawls, and third, the general
bulk of the members. The Order declared as its main Prin­
ciples : 1. Expectation of the Coming of a Great Teacher ;
2. Special individual preparation and service done “ in His
Name.” The Order started a magazine called the Herald o f
the Star, edited by Krishnamurti. It is not part of this History
to relate the progress of this Order, which spread very rapid­
ly. It will be met with from time to time as its activities
interweave with those of The Society.
From 16 January to 10 February, the President,
Mr. Leadbeater, and a party, went to Burma, visiting Rangoon,
Moulmein, Meiktala, Maymyo, and Mandalay. Mrs. Besant’s
lectures aroused great interest. Her main subjects were : The
Noble Eightfold Path ; The Value of Theosophy to Buddhism ;
and What is Theosophy ? She then went north to Benares.
In May, Mrs. Besant left with Mr. Arundale and her
wards for England. She arrived in London 5 May, and
went almost immediately on an extended tour through English
and Scottish towns, welcomed by crowded audiences however
large the Halls, and lecturing mainly on subjects connected
with the emergence of a World Religion and a World
Teacher ; or on, The Masters and the Way to Them, and on
The Occult Government of the World. Looking over the
entries in her Diary, one cannot but be struck by the fact that
392 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
men and women who were leaders in the worlds of politics,
religion, literature, social progress and science, sought her out
and listened to her views, especially in private meetings of
which no record came into newspapers or journals. Typical
of this was a gathering at which A. J. Balfour took her in to
dinner, and others present were Gerald Balfour and his wife,
Lady Betty Balfour, Lady Lytton, wife of the late Viceroy of
India, Lady Verena Churchill, Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. (Sir)
Edwin Lutyens, the Lady Emily Lutyens and the Rev. R. J.
Campbell. After dinner Mrs. Besant addressed a large group
on psychic problems. For her Queen’s Hall lectures on
Sundays during June and July, her subjects were of a pro­
phetic nature, and dealt with impending physical changes
which foreshadowed the coming of a World Teacher who
would set in motion the growth of a World Religion ; and
that the note of the future must be Self-sacrifice or there
would be World Revolution.
Mrs. Besant went to Paris, where, 15 June, she lectured
at the ancient Sorbonne on “ The Message of Giordano Bruno
to the Modern World ” to an audience of 4000, hundreds being
turned away. Ministers, men of science, professors and
priests received her lecture enthusiastically and, as she wrote,
“ the admission of a T. S. lecturer to that famous University
was a sign of the changed position of The Society in France.”
The Press was friendly and complimentary, despite the anger
of Roman Catholic and Anarchist parties at the Sorbonne
being open to her.
She visited the bigger Lodges in England, and addressed
other Societies, for she had a vivid interest in the growth of
the womens’ movements towards suffrage, and in anything
which ameliorated pain or suffering in any kingdom of nature.
In July, Mr. Sinnett decided to rejoin The Society.
Mrs. Besant offered him the position of Vice-President, which
he gladly accepted. She cabled to Sir Subramania Iyer to
ask if he were willing to resign to make this appointment
possible, and he gallantly and instantly agreed to do so.
UNDER MRS. BESANTS LEADERSHIP 395
Mr. Sinnett disbanded the Eleusinian Society, and the London
Lodge was reconstituted and, as formerly, was attached
directly to Adyar. The General Council confirmed this
appointment, and congratulations flowed in from all parts of
the world to Mr. Sinnett.
The President was very anxious that there should
be in London, the metropolis of the Empire, a worthy
and dignified centre for The Theosophical Society. She
gave a good deal of time to the selection of a site,
choosing one in Tavistock Square, and the plans for which
were made by Mr. (Sir) Edwin Lutyens. Mrs. Besant
and Miss Bright purchased the land, and took the legal
responsibility, with Mr. Digby Besant to represent his mother..
The foundation stone was laid 3 September with Masonic
honours. A large, handsome and commodious set of buildings
was started, the funds for which were freely given or lent.
The work went on steadily until the outbreak of war, and over
£ 100,000 were expended on it. The Government presently
commandeered it. After the war it was found impossible to
raise the large sum necessary for the completion of the original
plan according to the obligations with the Bedford Estate, or
to meet the greatly enhanced cost of occupation. The Govern-
ment rather forced the sale of the buildings to itself, for
£33.000, and sold them to the British Medical Association,,
which has developed the major portion of the original plan.
The President arrived in Adyar 7 October, and then
went to Benares with Mr. Arundale to consider the new
schemes that had arisen in connection with the University*
It had been her original plan that the Central Hindu College
should blossom into a United India University, to include
Hindus and Moslems. But, owing to religious rivalry, a
movement had been started to establish a separate Moslem
University, which came to pass at Aligarh. Pandit Madan M.
Malaviya was formulating a scheme for a Hindu University at
Benares, the idea of which had become very popular. After
careful consultation with various authorities, Mrs. Besant gave
394 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
her assent to the new scheme, and to the inclusion of the Cen­
tral Hindu College as part of the proposed University. She
withdrew her own petition for a Royal Charter, joined in the
petition for another on the new lines, and went with others on
a deputation to the Education Minister to obtain his consent,
and interviewed many Rulers of Indian States to secure
their support. The Hindu University duly received its Char­
ter, and became established under the direction of Pandit
Malaviya as first Chancellor ; but Theosophists were not
made welcome, and he declared that d heosophy would have
no part in the Hindu University.
The Annual Convention was held at Benares, when
many overseas delegates were present. Mrs. Besant gave the
Convention lectures on “ The Ideals of Theosophy.” On 28
December occurred a profoundly moving experience in the
presence and through the person of Krishnamurti, which
marked a turning point in the history of the Order of the '
Star in the East.
From the middle of July till the end of September,
Mr. Leadbeater, accompanied by Mr. J. van Manen, visited
the principal towns in Java, holding many meetings and
answering innumerable questions. Mr. Jinarajadasa had
been on an extensive tour in Canada, building up new
Lodges, Mrs. Marie Russak and Mr. L. W. Rogers had toured
through the United States.
There were now 19 Sections and 867 active Lodges
throughout the world. The latest Section to be added was the
Belgian, with the famous painter, Jean Delville, as General
Secretary. Many Sections were planning for, or had already
acquired their own Section Headquarters. In every direction
there were “ new developments that promise well for
the future.”
1912
While indeed the current of Theosophical life and
interest had for a time run on the whole strongly and
UNDER MRS. BESANTS LEADERSHIP 395
smoothly, yet the storm over the guardianship and education
of the Head of the Order of the Star in the East, Krishna-
murti, and his brother, Nityananda, was ready to burst.
In March 1910, Mr. Narayaniah, the father of the boys,
had been persuaded that because of the earlier charges
against Mr. Leadbeater, he should not have daily supervision
of them. But, seeing how great were the advantages offered
to them, he signed a statement before witnesses that he had
no objection to his boys being taken to England to continue
their education. Mrs. Besant left with them, 3 February,
accompanied by Mr. Jinarajadasa, and they, with Mr. Lead­
beater and Mr. Arundale, settled at Taormina, Sicily, for
some months, where the training of all for quicker spiritual
growth went on.
Mrs. Besant remained in England, attending meetings and
lecturing often on “ Why we believe in the Coming of a
World Teacher,” to Lodges, and on subjects dealing with
intuitional and spiritual growth. On Sunday mornings dur­
ing March she lectured at the Large Queen’s Hall on : The
Path of Initiation, and the Perfecting of Man ; the sub-titles
were : The Man of the World, his first steps ; Seeking the
Master ; The Christ Life ; The Christ Triumphant and the
Work of the Hierarchy. . A writer in The Vahan, February,
pointed out that whereas in 1895 Mrs. Besant gave essential­
ly the same subject, “ The Outer Court,” to an audience of
about 200, now it was necessary to have a hall seating about
3000, and finding even this insufficient. Mrs. Besant
addressed drawing-room meetings at the houses of Lady
Plymouth, Miss M. H. Dodge, a great benefactor of The
Society, and the Lady Emily Lutyens. She visited
Edinburgh, and Glasgow, where there was a big public
meeting with the Lord Provost in the chair. During March,
she visited Holland, 18th to 23rd, speaking in five important
cities. She returned to London, then went to Bath to preside
at the Southern Federation, where her public lecture was
on : Preparation for the Coming of the World Teacher.
396 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
In April, Mrs. Besant crossed again to the Continent,,
speaking at Paris and attending the Italian Convention at
Turin, and then went on to Taormina to join the party,,
remaining there till 4 July, when she returned to London
to preside over the Annual Convention of The Society
in England and Wales, of which Mr. J. I Wedgwood
was now General Secretary, and who paid a tribute to the
help Mrs. Marie Russak had given to the Section during the
year. The Lotus Circle for children was working in many
centres and leading, for older children, into the Golden Chain
groups, (founded in the United States, 1899) and for Youth
from thirteen upwards into the Round Table, founded
in 1908 by G. Herbert Whyte, and all now under his
direction. The numerous Leagues of Service ramified
in many directions, carrying with them the spirit of
Brotherhood.
On 2 and 3 August the President was in Harrogate topre­
side over the Northern Federation Conference, and made a few
other visits to Lodges. In August she was, at times, in London
where she was making useful contacts for her work in India,
with political ideals and activities already looming ahead.
She arrived in Bombay, 6 September, and went straight to-
Benares. Affairs connected with the Central Hindu College,
also educational and social work, kept her there till late
October, though she paid visits to a few other places : to-
Gaya to open a Theosophical Society Hall ; to Bankipur,
Lucknow and Cawnpur to address members and the public,
and advance the interests of the College, and to Allahabad
on University matters.
At this time a summon was served upon her to restore
Krishnamurti and his brother to their father. They had been
left in England to continue their education. With the
exception of a brief visit to Benares, the President spent
the remainder of the year in Madras, preparing for the Court
Case and arranging and carrying through the Annual
Convention.
UNDER MRS. BESANTS LEADERSHIP 397
In August the storm began by attacks in The Hindu,
intending to prove that Krishnamurti had not written At the
Feet o f the Master.
Mrs. Besant encountered considerable difficulty in finding
a lawyer whom she felt entirely suitable to conduct the case, 1
so she decided to conduct it herself. She realised that it /
turned mainly on Mr. Leadbeater, whose enemies seemed
anxious to draw him into the Courts to answer their charges.1
She attributed the source of this attack to the enmity of
Mrs. Tingley, who continuously flooded the world with un­
worthy literature against her and Mr. Leadbeater, giving gross
misrepresentations of their teachings. While, said Mrs. Besant,
Mr. Narayaniah’s suit was a personal matter, the action
taken by her “ in defence of the Headquarters and The
Theosophical Society, concerns the Society itself.” In future
she would, as President, defend its honour and good name
in the Press and in the law courts against all attacks worth
noticing. “ I will no longer silently permit mud to be thrown
on the Society, but will use such honourable means of
defence as are available. . . . I have hitherto followed,
as President, the practice I follow as teacher, bearing silently
all slander and insult. . . . But I think it has been a mis­
take to show this forbearance in the office of President, and
where the T. S., which is placed in my charge, is concerned,
I shall henceforth play the part of the warrior who protects.
If the T. S. disapproves of this policy it can very easily show
its disapproval by instructing its General Council during
the coming year not to propose my name for re-election
in 1914.”
There were now twenty-two Sections and all were work­
ing well, except the German. There Dr. Steiner had refused
admission of individuals and Lodges which did not work in
the methods he considered best for the German Section. In
conjunction with the German Section Executive, he had un­
constitutionally expelled from the National Society members
1See Appendix, p. 399.
3 9 8 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
belonging also to the Order of the Star in the East.1 Such
expulsion was invalid, as no member can be expelled for his
opinions. For these reasons Mrs. Besant, as President, and
at the request of the General Council, found she had no
option but to cancel the Charter of the Section. She then
revived it in favour of seventeen Lodges willing to work
within the Constitution of The Theosophical Society, with
Dr. Hiibbe Schleiden as General Secretary/’ Apart from
this trouble in Germany and disapproval or her actions by
some Indian members, “ all else is marvellously prosperous.”
America, under Mr. Warrington, was striding ahead ; and
Mrs. Russak had lectured in many towns. Education in Java
was greatly stimulated by Mr. D. van Hinloopen Labberton,
the first General Secretary, and others. Private education
was in the hands of the missionaries,-but the Theosophists
started non-sectarian schools, and promoted an Educational
movement, much in the same way as had been done earlier
in Ceylon. England, under the leadership of Mr. Wedg­
wood was making progress. France had built its splendid
new Headquarters. Mrs. Ransom had undertaken a
long tour in Australia. Several books had been published
which found wide and ready sale: Theosophy, A Study in
Karma, Initiation, The P erfecting o f Man, by Mrs. Besant,
and The Textbook o f Theosophy by Mr. Leadbeater. Above
all there had been the President’s frequent assertion of the
freedom of thought in The Society.
The Convention Lectures were on : Theosophy and The
Theosophical Society. The President pointed out that
Theosophy is the Science of the Eternal, that it is the open
road to the Masters Who guide us on the road to Wisdom,
that it is the Root of all Religions ; and that “ The Theoso­
phical Society exists for the sake of studying and spreading
Theosophy.” And further, that it is An embassy from the
1See T ilteilu n g en , Mar. 1913, no 1. part II.
2Dr. Steiner then formed the Anthroposophical Society, which has
progressed along its own well-defined lines.
UNDER MRS. BESANTS LEADERSHIP 399
Masters of the Race . . . to the religions and nations
of the World."
A PP E N D IX T H E CO URT C A SE OF 1912-13
It is not relevant to this History to go fully into the
Court Case between Mrs. Besant and Mr. G. Narayaniah for
the restitution of guardianship of two of his boys, but a brief
outline must be given since it touched so nearly on the lives
and beliefs of many members of The Society.
Mr. Leadbeater believed that in J. Krishnamurti he had
discovered a character of remarkable promise, and offered to
educate him and his brother. Mrs. Besant also believed in
the future of Krishnamurti and, with his father’s consent,
undertook guardianship of the boys, and the expense of their
education. Narayaniah was much bothered and persecuted
by his orthodox friends and relatives about this step, and
changed his mind frequently. The old charges caused sus­
picions to be raised against Mr. Leadbeater as supervisor
of the boys’ training, and a certain incident, seen by
Mrs. Besant’s servant, caused another surge of attack upon
him. Lakshman had seen Mr. Leadbeater and Krishnamurti
in the bathroom, and to the Hindu mind it was a shock­
ing, even a sinful offence to bathe naked, which Mr. Lead­
beater was teaching Krishnamurti to do in the English
fashion. That he had touched either of these boys in an
indecent manner was, Mr. Leadbeater affirmed in Court, a
most infamous lie.
The upshot of the case was that Mrs. Besant was
directed to hand over the boys to their father before May
1913. The Judge expressed his “ opinion ” that he thought
the views held by Mr. Leadbeater, “ immoral, and such as to
unfit him to be tutor of boys, and, taken in conjunction with
his professed power to detect the approach of impure
thoughts, rendered him a highly dangerous associate for
children.” This “ opinion” has been very widely quoted
400 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
generally without any rider that it was not a judgment based
on any evidence, but upon Mr. Leadbeater’s own opinions
on sex problems.
The decision to restore the boys to their father was
promptly appealed against by Mrs. Besant, and was taken
by her first to the High Court in Madras and then to
the Privy Council in England. Here quite another
view was taken of the whole case, one singularly and
calmly free from emotional elements. The Council viewed
it only in the interests of the boys and the expression
of their own wishes. The Privy Council delared, 5 May,
that the Orders made in the lower Courts could not stand, and
considered that the suit had been entirely misconceived.
Seeing that the father had permitted large sums to be spent
on the boys’ behalf to secure their education and future
interests, and as they asserted they had no wish to return to
India and thus jeopardise that education, the Council advised
that the suit should be dismissed both in England and India.
This without prejudice to any application the father might
think fit to make in England (where the boys now resided)
for restoration touching the guardianship, custody and
maintenance of his children.
T H E O S O P H Y A P P L IE D
“ In the realm of intellect, diversities enrich ; in the realm of Spirit
only can unity reign without stagnation. . . .
Many lives are behind us in which we have lived and worked ;
many lives are before us in which we must live and work side by side.
Let love’s golden bonds unite what karma’s iron chain has drawn to­
gether, and let us work in unity who know that the Self is one.”
— A n n i e B e s a n t
1913
T he President was occupied with the High Court Case,
the preparation of documents and in discussions with wit­
nesses—which necessitated much travelling. She gave a
series of lectures in Victoria Hall, Madras, on “ The Higher
Self and the Spiritual Life.” The Hall proved too small for
the crowds, so a great circus tent was hired and was in turn
completely packed.
On 15 April the judgment in the Court Case was made,
but as, a few days later, the same Judge was prevailed upon
to introduce into the decree an additional clause appointing
the father guardian of the minors, Mrs. Besant immediately
appealed against it. Both the Police Court and the High
Court refused to redress her personally, declaring, against all
evidence, that she had approved the advice given by
Mr. Leadbeater in the earlier years. But this the world
refused to believe, realising that great injustice had thus been
done to her. Mr. Besant wrote to Mr. Leadbeater, . . . it
does hurt me to be identified with the thing I abhor, and
which I look upon as dangerous.” 1
' 9 May, 1913.
26
402 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Though the Central Hindu College, “ the fruit of all the
years of labour and self-sacrifice,” had been willingly sur­
rendered to the Hindu University, and was essential to its
success, some of the University authorities now entertained
fears about the association of the University with Mrs. Besant.
This was the climax to the antagonism led by Bhagavan Das
and others, who had in 1912 poured out accusations against
her in the Indian Section Magazine. He went far along the
same lines as did Dr. Steiner, when he suggested that mem­
bers of the E. S. should be excluded from all offices in The
Society and in the Lodges. Some newspapers, led by
Mrs. Besant’s opponents, diligently assailed her. So bitter
grew this opposition that Mrs. Besant offered to resign as
President of the Board of Trustees ; but friends persuaded
her to remain until the Hindu University took over the
College. The antagonism generated by Mr. Arundale’s
attachment to Krishnamurti, and his efforts to build up a
group of young men to help him when the time came for his
public work, was so great that he resigned his Principalship,
and many of his Staff resigned also. Miss Arundale
resigned from the College Girls’ School. Mrs. Besant then
took measures to establish a Theosophical Educational
Trust, to pursue the ideal in education which had proved
so successful in the Central Hindu College. The Trust
was to establish Schools and Colleges open to students
of every faith, “ without distinction of race or creed,” and in
which religious instruction should be an integral part of educa­
tion. Well-known members of The Society became members
of the Trust, to which Mr. Ernest Wood was made Secretary.
Four Boys’ and three Girls’ Schools were at once organised, and
zealously promoted by Theosophists. These ideals in education
found an echo in England. At the Section Convention, July,
presided over by Mrs. Besant, the need for education along
Theosophical lines was brought forward by Miss Hope Rea*
who had heard an address by Mr. Arundale on “ Education
as Service” at the Convention, Adyar, 1912. Mr. Arundale
THEOSOPHY APPLIED 403
said that young people needed a broad tolerant spirit not
sufficiently seen in the rulers of that time. He added that
“ in India education went hand in hand with Theosophy.” 1
Mrs. Besant had left for England, 17 May, and she
lectured at Queen’s Hall on “ The Restoration of the Myster­
ies.” Whenever occasion offered, the President recommended
members to draw in Youth and to feel and sympathise with
their hopes and encourage their aspirations. She also drew
attention to the two lines of opinion in The Society : 1. That
it is an Association in which people engage in a common
study and in mutual help by the light they may throw upon
the subjects discussed ; 2. That it is a distinct effort on the
part of the Occult Hierarchy to influence the world in a
definite way, the expression of a spiritual purpose, and in
this way differing very largely from other Societies.
On 10 June a reception in honour of Mrs. Besant,
almost entirely for non-members, was held at the Great Cen­
tral Hall by Viscountess Churchill and the Lady Emily
Lutyens. Between four and five hundred people, many of
them distinguished, responded to the invitation, and to them
Mrs. Besant spoke on Theosophy in India, replying to The
Times article of a few weeks earlier, criticising her.'
Mrs. Besant presided over the Congress of European
Sections held at Stockholm, 14 July, under the direction
of Mr. Arvid Knos, General Secretary, where all the
European General Secretaries were present, and all alike
demonstrated with enthusiasm the solidarity of The
Society in Europe. It was decided to hold a World
Congress in Paris in 1915, and “ to invite all Theo-
sophical organisations to take part ” in it. Mrs. Besant’s
first lecture at the Congress was on “ The Conditions of
Intellectual and Spiritual Growth ; ” and she gave also a
series of three addresses on : 1. Saviours of the World or
World Teachers ; 2. The Christ in History ; 3. the Christ
1T h e V ahan, August, 1913, p. 6.
2 T h e V ahan, July, 1913, p. 267.
404 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
in Man. An Address was presented to her thanking her for
her efforts “ to defend the Society from the attacks of its
enemies.”
The President returned to Adyar, where she remained
for the rest of the year—with the exception of occasional
short visits to towns in S. India, and to preside at a Federation
or other meeting. She was engaged with the Court Case.
As before in the history of The Society, the missionaries took
the opportunity provided by these troubles to issue their own
verdict upon Mrs. Besant and upon The Society. Their
antagonism led them into misunderstandings which were
voiced by the Rev. E. W. Thompson, and endorsed by the
Bishop of Madras (Anglican). At a Madras Missionary Con­
ference, representatives of six different Missions alleged that :
1. Mrs. Besant’s Theosophy was calculated to encourage
“ a blind belief in her immaculate and transcendent wisdom
2. That when Mrs. Besant’s Theosophy became identified
with the Krishnamurti cult, “ it lost any claim to be con­
sidered as a universal harmony of religions also, the lawsuits
were surveyed, and anything detrimental to Mrs. Besant
or Mr. Leadbeater was emphasised. This paper was
published as a pamphlet, in November. Mrs. Besant ans­
wered it in the Madras Standard in a letter to the Bishop
of Madras, reproaching him for trying to fasten on to
her advice she had “ always repudiated,” while ignoring
her teachings on Theosophy for twenty-four years. She
challenged him to make good his statements in a public
debate on : “ The relative morality of Church Christian­
ity and Mrs. Besant’s Theosophy.” She recalled that
missionaries had libelled her ever since she set foot in India ;
that they insulted her on every possible occasion, and hated
her for strengthening the young in their own faith. The
Bishop neither withdrew the slander, nor accepted the
challenge to debate. Mrs. Besant therefore decided to give
three lectures in Madras under the title of “ Theosophy and
the Bishop of Madras.” Mr. Johan van Manen, Assistant
THEOSOPHY APPLIED 405
Director of the Adyar Library, wrote a pamphlet in which he
said that if he wrote “ sharply and strongly against the Bishop
of Madras and the seven missionaries who wrote and signed
the pamphlet . . . it is not against their persons, but
against their un-Christian conduct." He analysed their
statements and showed how erroneous they were, and how
entirely not only Theosophy but Mrs. Besant’s exposition of
it had been misrepresented by this group of persons.1
In October, under “ direction,” Mrs. Besant, though
beset on every side, re-entered the political field. To the
criticisms of friends, she replied she had left this field,
because H. P. Blavatsky wished it. She thought, and
thought rightly, that under the new conditions into which
I entered when I became her pupil in the Divine Wisdom, it
was necessary for me to devote myself to the mastering of
the Theosophical standpoint, to the adjustment of the focus
of the mental and emotional eyes to the new Light. Socialist
as she declared herself to be—of the Socialism of Love and
not of.hate—she would not have me teach Socialism, until I
had seen how, in the age-long evolution of mankind, the
Socialism of child-peoples, under an autocracy of Wisdom
and Love, had necessarily passed away—exquisitely beauti­
ful and happiness-giving as it was—to make way for the
struggles, the antagonisms, the wars, in which adolescent
Nations hewed their ways to Individualism and Self-reliance.
In the old Pygathorean way, she imposed on me silence on
the subjects I cared for most, to which my public life had
been devoted. She did well. For my old crude views were
thrown into the fire of silence, and nothing was lost of the
gold they contained : that remained.” '
Mrs. Besant expressed the joy with which she now took
the opportunity “ to let my |ongue speak freely that which had
been burning in my heart, and to which all led up—the
1See M rs. B e s a n t ’s T h e o s o p h y , A cco r d in g to th e B is h o p o f M a d ra s.
By John van Manen, 1914.
2T h e T h e o s o p h is t,.O c t. 1915, pp. 6-7.
406 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Freedom of the Motherland, and the dignity of an Eastern
Nation self-ruled.” In pursuance of this task Mrs. Besant
decided to start a weekly paper.
Since January 1911 she had endured much persecution,
but now felt she would again vigorously take up her public
work. She gave a course of lectures in Madras, October, on
some of the burning social questions of the day. These
lectures were published under the title, Wake up, India,
and had a most stirring effect upon the whole country.
They were given at the request and “ under the guidance
of the Rishi Agastya, whom we call the Regent of
India. . . .” 1
At Benares, in her Presidential Address, the President
said that The Society had come through the storms unshaken
and untroubled, its future, its stability secure. She mentioned
workers in the field—among them the veteran Mrs. Cooper-
Oakley in Budapest, Mr. Ransom sent back to England
from Adyar by her to become the first “ national lecturer,”"
and where Miss Clara Codd was also at work. K. Narayana-
swamy Iyer was still vigorously carrying on in N. India, and
the saintly T. Ramachandra Rao in the South. A large
number of residents at Adyar, both Indian and overseas,
sent the work ahead “ well and harmoniously.” Mr. Lead-
beater had remained at Adyar throughout the year, engaged
in literary and other work, and relieving Mrs. Besant in every
possible way from the strain of great burdens. There had been,
amidst storms and stress, “ the most remarkable quickening
of progress in India that our movement has ever known.”
Even though she admitted that it had been “ the most painful
year of my life, one of practically unbroken suffering . . .”
yet from it all solidarity emerged ; 1071 new members
1T h e T h eo so p h ist, January, 1929, p. 341.
2The titles of “National Lecturer” and “International Lecturer" came
into use, but in 1937 Dr. Arundale abolished them lest such lecturers
should come to be regarded as “official representatives.”
3Ib id ., October, 1913, p. 1.
THEOSOPHY APPLIED 407
had joined The Society, and it seemed stronger than
ever.
The President’s Convention lectures were on Indian Social
Reform : 1. The Past of the Caste System ; 2. The Present
of the Caste System ; 3. The Place of Theosophy in India ;
4. United India. Sir Subramania Iyer moved and Khan
Bahadur N. D. Khandalavala seconded a vote of complete
trust and confidence in the President. All hands but one
went up and tremendous cheering followed.
1914
Mrs. Besant felt assured that a small group of people in
Madras, using The Hindu as their organ, had tried to drive
her out of the public work in India to which she had devoted
her life since 1893. Characteristically, this conviction led
her to the intensification of that work. In order to give
public expression to her activities, she was urged to start a
daily newspaper, but as this was not financially possible for
the moment, she issued, beginning 2 January, a weekly called
The Commonweal, to serve the common good, with the motto
“ For God, Crown and Country.” It stood for Religious and
Political Reform, the latter to deal with the building-up of a
complete Self-Government from village councils upwards
to a National Parliament. Also, to draw Great Britain
and India nearer to each other through better under­
standing.1
She said : “ The programme was given to me at Sham-
balla, whither I was called, and has guided me ever since.
Among its phrases are : “ Claim India’s place among the
Nations.” “ Be firm but not provocative.” “ The end will
be a great triumph, take care it is not stained by excess.”
“ Liberty for India, but within the British Federation, was the
goal for which I was to work . . . Dominion Status . . .
gives exactly what is wished—Independence within India,
1T h e C o m m o n w ea l, 9 January, 1914, p. 22.
408 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
with an equal and friendly link with Britain through the
Crown.”
On 20, 23, and 27 January Mrs. Besant answered the
Bishop of Madras in three public lectures : I. Theosophy
and Christianity ; 2. Theosophy and Morality ; 3. Occultism
in the Great Religions. She realised that with the cessation
of the attacks to which she had been subjected, she would
be freer to carry out more propaganda for members and to
spread the ideas of Theosophy. She visited Bangalore, 4
April, to preside over a Theosophical Federation and gave
two lectures on : Theosophy and Religion ; and Theosophy
and Science. In Tanjore, 10-12 April, at a similar Conference,
she spoke on Theosophy and Caste. She visited a few other
towns as well and in each place combined The Society’s work
with attention to some pressing educational or social Reform
—for men, women, students, children, or the promotion of
political freedom. As she said at Tanjore, “ A germ of
United India is sown whenever the three chief District Con­
ferences—Theosophical or United Religious and Educational,
the Social and the Political meet . . . and . . . mingle with
each other.”2
On 18 April Mrs. Besant left for London. At the White
Lotus Day meeting, 8 May, she paid tribute to that devoted
pupil of H. P. B., Mrs. Cooper-Oakley, who had passed over,
3 March, at Budapest. Her membership dated back to
1884. On 2 May Mrs. Besant was given a reception by
members at Chelsea Town Hall. In the course of her address
she said :
“ All great things come by struggling, all power comes
by effort, and it is our privilege that we are standing in the
forefront of a movement, larger far than The Theosophical
1T h e T h eo so p h isl, January, 1929, p. 341. Shamballa is the name
given to the chief centre of Occult influence for the world, the place
where the Head of the Occult Hierachy manifests Himself on special
occasions, and to which He summons His agents when it is neccessary to
instruct them on action to be taken.
■T h e C o m m o n w ea l, April, 1914, p. 315.
THEOSOPHY APPLIED 409
Society, which is revolutionising today the whole of modern
thought.”1
Many requests were made that Mrs. Besant would, in
the forthcoming election, allow herself to be elected for life.
This she refused to do. She considered it to be wiser that
The Society should be free to express its wishes periodically.
From 18-24 May Mrs. Besant attended a Conference in Paris
for members only—who came from all parts of France, as well
as from other countries. Her addresses were : Some Difficulties
encountered in Occult Research ; and Individualisation and
the Origin of Karma. Both before and after her visit to
Paris, Mrs. Besant was much engaged in meeting men and
women of experience in the political field, with whom she
discussed questions affecting India. She gave a series of
lectures in Queen’s Hall in May and June on Mysticism :
1. The Meaning and Method of Mysticism ; 2. The God
Idea ; 3. The Christ Idea ; 4. The Man Idea ; 5. Interpreta­
tions.
The President visited both Glasgow and Edinburgh, and
gave addresses on Theosophy. She left for India, arriving in
Bombay 10 July, where she was given a great public
welcome.
By 5 July the results of the Presidential Election were
declared, showing an overwhelming majority for Mrs. Besant
for a further period of seven years—16,983 for 238 against,.
3,970 did not vote, 63 invalid. Total voting strength 21,254.
On 14 July Mrs. Besant bought the Madras Standard and
registered herself as the proprietor, and on 1 August changed
its name to Neu) India. By the end of the year the circulation
had risen from one to over ten thousand. Its popularity
was due to the fact that in its pages she fearlessly gave
expression to her own and to her contributors’ opinions, and
freely criticised the British Government with an openness to
which it was not accustomed. Having organised the
newspaper, she visited towns both in the South and the North,.
1T h e V ahan, June, 1914, p. 224.
410 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
speaking often of the Coming of a World Teacher. But
the supervision and editing of the newspapers kept her very
much in Madras.
Mrs. Besant decided to exclude her social and political
views from the pages of The Theosophist, lest they hurt the
susceptibilities of some readers ; others protested against
being thus deprived of her leading in these matters.' For
these subjects she used The Commonweal and New India.
The Great War had broken out on 4 August, and to that
colossal struggle the world began to give its attention, little
dreaming that it was to last for four years, and would
dislocate all familiar ways and leave the world with a new
set of circumstances to which to adjust itself. Mrs. Besant
threw in the weight of her opinion on the side of the Allies.
She declared afterwards that she knew that the Allies would
win, so did not need to throw herself into that problem, but took
advantage of the conditions created to press forward for the
political emancipation of India while idealism ran high, and
India was giving of her utmost in the struggle. So far as the
war itself was concerned, she called upon “ all who are
pledged to Universal Brotherhood, all Theosophists the world
over, to stand for Right against Might, Law against Force,
Freedom against Slavery, Brotherhood against Tyranny.”
There were objections to these views, and the alienation of
some, but she held firmly to them.
In order to have some place free f<jr the expression of
opinion, Mrs. Besant built the Gokhale Hall in Madras, and
placed it under Indian management. As she was absent in
Europe, the foundation stone was laid by Mr. Jinarajadasa.
When, in 1925, a memorial tablet was unveiled, it was inscrib­
ed : “ The Young Men’s Indian Association. This building
is the Gift of Mrs. Annie Besant, D. L., for the advancement
of all that is best in Indian Youth. The Association has
placed this tablet in grateful recognition, both of the gift and
the services to the Motherland of an Indian Patriot who will
1T h e T h eo so p h ist, December, 1914, p. 193.
THEOSOPHY APPLIED 411
ever be held in devoted remembrance wherever India’s name
is honoured.”
Mrs. Besant in her Presidential Address said that this
year had been one of “ unexampled peace and harmony ”—
so far as The Society was concerned. As to the great
struggle in progress, she hoped that when it was over the
influence of The Society would draw the various nations
together again. From the Reports of General Secretaries
the effects of the war were clear. It had completely
stopped all work for the moment in some countries, as in
Belgium. France reported that all Theosophical work was
suspended, and their Headquarters turned into a home for
refugees ; English members felt that the war deepened interest
in spiritual things, and thus put upon their shoulders the great
responsibility of meeting the need. Countries outside the
war zone were carrying on much as usual; and lecturers had
given much time and attention to India, America, England
and Australia.
Mr. Leadbeater was invited to tour Burma, Java, Australia
and New Zealand. In Burma he visited six towns and gave
27 lectures ; in Java he toured in seven places and gave many
meetings. Here, as elsewhere, he was noted for the patience
with which he answered questions. He spoke usually on
Theosophy, and often on “ The Life after Death,” of which
he claimed to have so much first-hand experience. He was
greatly liked by children and young people, so addressed
many groups of the Golden Chain and Lotus Circle.
In Australia, Mr. Leadbeater spent six months touring all
but W. Australia, and found great response to his work. It
was the same in New Zealand while he was there from
1 July till the end of August ; also in Tasmania which he
visited in August. So great was the stimulus of his work
that upon urgent request the President gave him permission
to remain in Australia, which became his home for many
years. He frequently expressed his liking for these young
nations, and desired to help and serve them. He saw in
412 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
them the beginnings of the new sixth Sub-Race, as well as-
in America, and noted the amazing difference between the
old and the young.
At Adyar, Mr. Jinarâjadâsa gave the Annual Convention
lectures on Theosophy and Modern Thought, which were
“ among the best series ever delivered from our platform."
The four lectures were : 1. Theosophy and the Problem of
Heredity ; 2. History in the Light of Reincarnation ; 3. The
Basis of Art Expression ; 4. The Search for Reality.
The General Council resolved to move this International
Convention, from time to time, to other towns in India
besides Madras and Benares.
1915
From the Indian newspapers of this year, including New
India, may be gained the fullest idea of the part Mrs. Besant
was playing in India’s unfolding life. The National Congress
Convention of December 1914, though improving in size,
was still far from being as strong as those previous to 1907,.
when the Moderates and Extremists split at Surat. Some
even thought it was better to drop the Congress altogether,
and to have a more compact body of workers. Mrs. Besant
concerned herself with drawing all parties together again, and
with inducing the Muslims to add their strength to a united
demand to the British Government for Home Rule.
Early in February she instituted a Madras Parliament
with herself as Premier, “ to promote the civic Education of
the citizens of Madras. .
It was certain that the war was likely to be prolonged.
No one could forecast the end nor the possible relative posi­
tions of the nations when it should at last be over.
Mrs. Besant recalled how H. P. B. had written in 1889 that
“ the early years of the next century would see many of
the accounts of the Nations made up. . . . For one
very clear result of the . . war is to bring Asia into new
THEOSOPHY APPLIED 413
relations with Europe, and to establish her in her old place of
power in shaping the world’s destinies. . 1 Since
India had sprung forward to answer the cry for help “ from
the little northern Island that had taught her the great lesson
of Liberty ” ;—since Britain called on India for help and
treated her as an equal, then “ never again can she in fairness
and in honour, treat the Indian Nation as a subject race.”
She noted the changes that had been wrought in India and
made the thoughtful feel the need to press on more rapidly
religious, educational, social and political reforms. She
recounted the effective part The Theosophical Society had
played, through the labours of its members, in arousing and
inspiring Indian nationality. Holding these views Mrs. Besant
took action accordingly, and with immense effectiveness
•conducted her campaigns for India’s development along
Theosophical, educational and political lines. She was
enthusiastically elected to preside over the United Provinces
political Conference, 2-4 April, where her presidentship
ensured its “ unqualified success.’’ '
The Rev. E. W. Thompson, of the Wesleyan Mission,
protested strongly in a pamphlet called “ Esoteric Theosophy
and Public Education,” against the affiliation to the Madras
University of a College at Madanapalle. He held that at
the back of any College managed by “ Esoteric Theosophists,”
there lurked a system and a method which the consensus of
opinion of intelligent men adjudges to be “ a delusion and a
sham.” It was replied that the adherents of most religions
hold the opinions of others as a delusion and a sham, and
are therefore open to the same objections.
To those who objected to her political activities while at
the same time occupying the position of President of The Theo­
sophical Society, she wrote : It is sometimes pretended that
Theosophy has nothing to do with politics, and that in taking
part in Indian politics, 1have entered on a new line. The fact
1 T h e T h eo so p h ist, Feb. 1915, p. 475.
- T h e L ea d er , 7 February, 1915.
414 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
is conveniently ignored that, while labouring chiefly in religi­
ous propaganda and educational work, I used the light of
Theosophy to illuminate political questions where great
principles were involved, just as they are involved now.
The question of Home Rule for India is no question of party
politics ; it is a question of principle, of the liberation of a people
from autocratic rule.” Mrs. Besant had, fifteen years previously,
raised the same questions, and while Colonel Olcott was Presi­
dent he “ never dreamed of objecting to my plain speech.” 1
Two sets of opinions had been strongly expressed on the
nature of Theosophical work : 1. That the Divine Wisdom
consists in te.aching a certain body of doctrines, and applica­
tion of such doctrines was of doubtful desirability ; 2. That
the Divine Wisdom is for the world’s helping and might
pursue many lines according to the needs of the time. The
Society, being international, could only suggest great princi­
ples and leave the members to apply them for themselves. It
pronounced no opinion as to how the principles of Brother­
hood should be applied.
Mrs. Besant had herself encouraged this latter, which she
considered the wider view ; and while organising many
activities had taken care that they should not compromise
“ the neutrality of The Theosophical Society, while members
should remain perfectly free to work in any of them.” But
both lines of thought had their place “ and it is eminently
desirable that both should be present in The Society . . .
they are complementary, not hostile.” ' In Calcutta, 5
October, she spoke on “ Why India should have Home
Rule.” Many were hostile and some thought her plans in­
opportune, but at this great meeting she rose to speak amid
deafening cheers. She wrote in New India, 18 October, that
she preferred the words Home Rule rather than Svaraj (self-
rule) or Self-Government, because Home Rule connoted con­
trol over a “ National Household."
1N ew In d ia , 21 April, 1915. .
- T h e T h eo so p h ist, Jan., 1915, pp. 290-3.
THEOSOPHY APPLIED 415
During this year Mrs. Besant presided over Theosophic-
al Conferences at Cuddapah, February ; Kolhapur, May ;
Mozaffarpore, October ; and Gwalior, December. In each
place she gave a lecture on : The Value of Theosophy to
India. Other activities which she upheld necessitated that
she should move, rapidly about the country vivifying them by
her presence. Through the pages of her Diary pass great
names in the unfolding of India’s destiny, each and all of
whom have made history in India.
Several important pronouncements concerning The
Society were made by Mrs. Besant, since in some directions
misunderstandings were arising :
1. Here and there tension was noticeable over the
interests of The Society and of the Order of the Star in the
East. In this connection she said : “ The T. S. is a perma­
nent organisation, whereas the Order of the Star in the East
is a temporary one working to prepare the way for the coming
of the Great Teacher, and necessarily ceasing that work when
He comes amongst us.”
2. In regard to disputes among members she said : “ . . _
I decline to give any advice at all on disputed T. S. matters,
unless some great conflict of principle arises, as in the present
War and then I give it publicly, . . . as President I have
no right to advice on Sectional disputes, which should be
settled by local workers. . . . A Section is autonomous,
and autonomy would be a farce if a President should throw
in his weight on one side or the other in a contested
election."
3. She declared frankly her opinion on Neutrality in the
War ; for this war was a decision as to whether evolution
should receive a set back or the world go forward more
rapidly. “ To be neutral under such conditions is to betray
humanity, for the fate of the world for generations hangs in
the balance, and the neutral helps to weigh it down on the
wrong side.”
1 I b id ., May, 1915, p. 99.
416 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
Mr. Leadbeater spent this year in Australia, the major
portion of the time in Sydney. He gave regular Sunday
afternoon talks to the Lotus Circle, on a variety of Theo-
sophical subjects, and in the evenings a public lecture on
some aspect of Theosophy. On 12 June he was initiated
into Co-Freemasonry, and at once took a deep interest in its
ceremonial work and, passing rapidly into the higher degrees,
greatly influenced the growth of the Order. In July and
August he gave a series of talks on “ Australia and New
Zealand as the Home of a new Sub-Race.” He saw there
were children of a new type, specially in Queensland, not
entirely of the American type, but closely resembling it, still
a sub-race of the Aryan, but developing by aid of the next
faculty, the intuition, by synthesis rather than by analysis.
These lectures Mr. Leadbeater repeated in Melbourne and
Adelaide in October. In these cities, as well as in Brisbane,
in July, he gave himself unsparingly to the many activities of
which he was virtual leader. He went to New Zealand, and
at Auckland, 27 December, was given a big reception, and
immediately launched upon a round of meetings and
lectures.
Mr. Arundale had been active in military work in London.
In October he was unanimously elected General Secretary
of The Society in England, Ireland and Wales, in place
of Dr. L. Haden Guest, who was deeply immersed in war
activities. Feeling that Reincarnation and Karma were the
two doctrines most likely to help people to think out the
problems of the war, this Section carried through a special
campaign to bring them before the minds of the public.
Many of the best known lecturers threw themselves into this
project and went on tours throughout the country.
In October and November Mr. Jinarajadasa was in
Burma, and presided over the Section Conference in Manda­
lay, 22 October. In his lectures, which attracted huge
audiences, he stressed the practical application of Theosophy
in the Home, in Business, and in the State. But it was his
THEOSOPHY APPLIED 417
address on “ Theosophy and the higher Truths of Buddhism ”
which was most appreciated by the Burmese.
At the Annual Convention 25-29 December, held in
Bombay so that Mrs. Besant might attend also the National
Congress, the subject of her four Lectures was “ Life’s
Deeper Problems ” : 1. Theosophy and God ; 2. Theo­
sophy and Man ; 3. Theosophy and Right and Wrong ; 4.
Theosophy and Brotherhood.
The Congress gave a mandate to the All-India Con­
gress Committee to prepare a scheme for the attainment of
Self-Government. It was freely admitted that Mrs. Besant’s
influence and power were real ; and while there was
much disbelief in her idea of Self-Government, yet it
was said, “ When she wills a thing, it is done.” The
Home Rule League was separate from the Congress, and
its object was to educate public opinion. To a meeting
crowded to the utmost capacity and amid deafening cheers,
Mrs. Besant said if the Congress did not take up this idea
she would take it up herself. The League formed a Central
Committee with Mrs. Besant as first Organising Secretary.
The Theosophical Educational Trust in India had greatly
increased, due to the efficient organisation of Mr. Wood,
and had 18 educational institutions under its management.
1916
Mrs. Besant was now popularising the Home Rule
League and India’s political unity. She travelled rapidly
about the country presiding over both political and Theoso­
phical Conferences. In February she was present at the
laying, by the Viceroy, Lord Hardinge, of the foundation
stone of the All-India Hindu University, to which she had
contributed so much. She was the only woman elected to
the University’s Excutive Body and Senate.
As some members raised objections to Mrs. Besant’s
views on war, she dealt with the question of Occultism and
27
418 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
War. She said there were two theories : 1. All that exists
draws life from the One, and therefore includes all that is
called Good and Evil ; 2. Sees over against Good the
mighty power of Ahriman or Satan. Under the old Aryan
ideal the weak were safe, only the strong enemy was struck.
Righteous war was sometimes a regrettable necessity . . .
Mrs. Besant thought that God is in War as in Peace, for by
these, among many means, He evolves man towards per­
fection ; but just as “ Brotherhood is the Keynote of The
Theosophical Society, [so] Brotherhood is the Keynote of the
coming civilisation.” '
In May, Mrs. Besant visited many towns and spoke often
on politics and also on “ The Value of Theosophy to India.”
The country was stirring to her call ; for “ with the split in
the Congress healed, with the Hindus and Muslims hand-in-
hand, we are one party marching on one path, to one goal
. .. ”"When she returned to Madras notice was served upon her
demanding security of Rs. 2,000 for New India—thus, she said
indignantly, branding the paper as “ seditious and dishonest.”
Members had been writing to and calling at Head­
quarters seeking direction in political matters. To such
enquiries the President replied : “ The T.S. as a body has no
right to declare itself on one side or another in any political,
social, educational or doctrinal question.”1 The Government
grew alarmed at the success of her campaign, and excluded
her from the Bombay Presidency. As President of The
Theosophical Society she promptly advised that “ No Theo­
sophical Lodges must pass any resolution with regard to my
exclusion from the Bombay Presidency, nor in support of me in
my political difficulties with the Government. The Theo­
sophical Society has no politics . . . Any such resolution
passed by a Lodge is unconstitutional and wholly against my
wishes.” *
1T h e T h eo so p h ist, April and ¡VIay, 1916.
2 T h e C o m m o n w ea l, Jan. 1916, p. 2.
3T h e T h eo so p h ist, March, 1916, pp. 573-82.
4 Ib id ., pp. 578-82.
THEOSOPHY APPLIED 419
In October Mrs. Besant continued her challenging
activities, therefore the security on New India was forfeited ;
the Madras High Court rejected her application for the
revision of this forfeiture, and also her application questioning
the legality of the Press Act. She was forbidden to “ enter,
reside or remain ” in Berar and the Central Provinces.1 Other
larger securities were demanded for the Besant Press, and
the New India printing works.
Because of criticisms, Mrs. Besant called attention
to the Articles of Association of The Theosophical
Society, where, in sub-clause (d), it is said that one of
the ways of upholding the Objects of The Society is
■
“ The doing of all such things as are conducive to the
attainment of the above Objects or any of them . . .
She held that this sub-clause secured “ to The Society as
such, the right to do collectively all things incidental or con­
ducive to the formation of a nucleus of the Universal Brother­
hood of Humanity without distinction of race, creed, sex,
caste or colour.” She supposed she had been “ chosen as
President of The Society in order to bring it more to the
front in physical plane activities . . . ” She traced the
various movements she had sanctioned as upholding the
Objects : The Theosophical Order of Service, the Education­
al Trust, Social Reform, etc. “ The Theosophical Society
has been declared to be the Herald of the Coming Age, the
.seed of the Sixth Root Race, and the cradle of the sixth sub­
race now being born into the world. It is claimed that it is
the standard-bearer of the banner of the coming civilisation,
the result of the world-wide Theosophical Movement, which
is permeating all religions, all philanthropy and the whole
world of thought.” ' She urged the breaking through the
crusts of all narrowness to the new Light.
In December the Annual Convention was held in Luck­
now, where the National Congress was meeting, at which
1Original Order, 29 Oct. 1916.
- T h e T h eo so p h ist, Nov. 1916, pp. 127-40. ‘‘The Wider Outlook."
420 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Mrs. Besant persuaded all parties, whether Hindu or Muslim,
to unite in a concerted demand to the British Government for
Home Rule. Her Convention Lectures were on The Duties of
the Theosophist: 1. To Religion ; 2. To Society ; 3. To his
Nation and Humanity. The other Convention speakers were
Mr. Jinarajadasa and Mr. Arundale, who was very popular
with the student population of India.
Speaking of Brotherhood in her Convention Address,
Mrs. Besant said that the Founders of The Society, “ the two
servants of the Hierarchy that guides the evolution of
humanity, were chosen to send through the world the message
of Brotherhood, the sacred tie that, once realised, shall sub­
stitute the Reign of Love for the struggle of contesting hosts.” 1
Mr. Leadbeater had continued his tour in New Zealand
during January and February. On his return to Sydney, 11
February, he started a series of public lectures on great
religions, ancient and modern. In this year he entered the
Liberal Catholic Church, was consecrated a Bishop by the
Rt. Rev. J. I. Wedgwood, and made Regionary Bishop of
Australia, 22 July. He intimated that an exalted member of
the Occult Hierarchy had recommended that there were three
ways in which the members of The Society should show how
things should be done :
1. In Education ; to show what schools should be in the
hands of those working selflessly for the children they love.
2. The Ideal Church ; with a purified ritual, to be in
the hands of Theosophists.
3. Co-Freemasonry ; in which Theosophy should supply
the ideal Freemasonry, and the universal inclusion of women.
Two other suggestions were : a. A Medical College, in
which no vivisection would be allowed, no alcohol and no
tobacco ; b. To experiment with simple Theosophical Com­
munities.
With these activities, it was thought, Theosophists might
usefully concern themselves, adding them to the intellectual
1G e n e r a l R ep o r t, 1916, p. 3.
THEOSOPHY APPLIED 421
headway being made everywhere.1 Mrs. Besant received the
same instructions and sent them to Bishop Leadbeater, their
letters crossing on the way.
Although the war was so great a preoccupation, yet
it was driving people to seek solutions of its problems
in idealism. Theosophists were active everywhere, for,
as Mrs. Besant said in her Presidential Address, “ The Theo-
sophical Society is called to take its share in the mighty world-
creation, to spread its ideals through the mental atmos­
phere, to work them out into physical forms for the new
civilisation.”2
In England, a Theosophical Fraternity in Education was
formed, which included over 500 F. T. S. professionally
engaged in teaching. This Fraternity, under the leadership
of Mrs. Beatrice Ensor, afterwards developed into the New
Fellowship in Education, which includes leading educationists
throughout the world and holds international Conferences*
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Whyte drew together all the vari­
ous movements for young people. In the United States
The Society was incorporated. There the propaganda,
under the direction of Mr. Rogers, was far in excess of
that done in any previous year, and included the systematic
distribution of literature. The Sydney Lodge occupied hand­
some new premises, where Mr. T. H. Martyn was the chief
figure, with a strong group of workers around him. In
Melbourne, Mr. Studd purchased a site for the Lodge in
Collins Street for £15,000. In Netherlands Indies the Govern­
ment recognised the value of The Society. The French
Section had built its fine new Headquarters in Square Rapp.
Mr. Jinarâjadâsa had taken tours in India, and had greatly
assisted in Great Britain, where his chief subject was “ The
Relation of Man to God.”
The Adyar Library was “ in its Oriental section, as
good as any in India, and in some departments of Oriental
1Summarised from Bishop Leadbeater’s Letters to Mrs. Besant, 1916.
- G e n e r a l R ep o r t, p . 17.
422 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
literature, such as Upanishads, Agamas, Orientalistic Maga­
zines, it even excels all the rest. . . ” 1
1917
Leaving Benares, 2 January, Mrs. Besant visited Calcutta
and five other towns on the way to Madras. In most she
was taken in procession through the streets, and spoke either
on Home Rule or on Iheosophical Ideals. The Govern­
ment began to consider her political activities as dangerous.
On 2 February she was to preside at a lecture given by
Mr. B. P. Wadia in Madras ; but the meeting was forbidden
by the Governor, Lord Pentland, on the grounds that her
attendance would be “ prejudicial to the public safety.”'
Mrs. Besant’s time was fully occupied with Theosophical,
Educational, Scout, Recruiting, Madras Parliament, Congress,
Home Rule and other activities. The progress of the Theo­
sophical Educational Trust was widely commented upon, the
Bombay Chronicle writing that “ the Trust attempts to adapt
the ancient ideas to modern conditions . . .” From 6—9 April
a Theosophical Conference was held at Adyar, over which
Mrs. Besant presided. She spoke to a packed audience on
“ Work for the Coming.” Mr. Arundale spoke on Education
and formed a Theosophical Fraternity in Education on the lines
of that organised in England. By April it seemed clear that
Mrs. Besant would be interned because of her political
agitation, also Mr. Arundale and Mr. Wadia. She got up a
petition to the Governor, appealing to him to refrain from
taking any measures to repress constitutional agitation to
bestow Self-Government on India. The Governor in Council,
7 June, ordered that Mrs. Besant should not reside in the city
of Madras or in the district of Chingleput, which includes
Adyar. She was prohibited from taking part in any meeting,
making any speech, or publishing anything, nor was she to
1G e n e r a l R ep o r t, p. 33.
2Original Order.
THEOSOPHY APPLIED 423
receive any communication not examined and passed by the
Magistrate of the district.1 In New India, 15 June, she published
her protest that all her agitation was constitutional and there
was no cause for the Government’s repressive measures.
Mr. Arundale and Mr. Wadia received similar Orders.
Mrs. Besant chose Ootacamund as her residence, and
occupied The Society’s bungalow, Gulistan. These intern­
ments aroused intense public indignation, not only in India,
but throughout the world, and agitation to end them was
strongly organised. Mr. H. Baillie Weaver, General Sec­
retary of The Society in England, protested, at the request
of his Executive Committee, to H. M. The King-Emperor,
the Prime Minister, the Secretary of State for India, and
to H. E. the Viceroy of India and the Governor of
Madras, against that part of the Order which constituted an
attack upon The Society. That is, by forbidding the sale or
publication of any literature spoken or written by the intern­
ees on any subject whatever previous to 1917. On 11 July,
Mr. Austen Chamberlain, Secretary of State for India, said,
with regard to a statement issued by Mrs. Besant, that “ her
communication was, I am informed, violently worded and
emphasised the unity of The Theosophical Society with the
political aims of other organisations . . .” The Executive
Committee of The Theosophical Society sent a demand to
the Rt. Hon. David Lloyd George, Prime Minister, that
Mrs. Besant’s letter to the Madras Government be published
unmutilated. This demand was vigorously upheld by The
Society in India and in England. On 3 July the Government
informed Mrs. Besant that she was permitted to publish or
re-publish purely theosophical or religious writings and
speeches composed by her, provided they had been examined
and passed by the Governor in Council or by some other
duly appointed officer. Mrs. Besant replied that she was still
unable to discriminate between her activities, nor would she
implicitly admit that while her so-called religious works were
1Original Order, 7 June, 1917.
424 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
harmless, her educational, social and political writings justi­
fied the action of the Madras Government against herself
and her colleagues. Finally, 10 August, Mrs. Besants
full statement was published. The part cited ran as
follows :
“ All I write is equally theosophical and religious, being
directed to the evolution of the spiritual intelligence in man
exerted in spiritual, intellectual, emotional and physical
departments of human life ; they all form part of one great
movement for human progress and liberty and order. . . The
Theosophical Society cannot identify itself with any special
creed, religious, social, or political, but it can and ought to
stand for the sacred right of free speech for all opinions which
do not incite to crime. . . . It has therefore allied itself in this
struggle in entente cordiale with the National Congress, the
Moslem League and the Home Rule Leagues in one solid
body united in resistance to autocracy and in defence of the
liberty of the people, and 1 as the President of The
Theosophical Society will conclude no separate peace.”
Arundale and Wadia wrote in similar terms.
Mr. Baillie Weaver continued to bring all possible pres­
sure to bear upon the British Government to have the intern­
ment order reversed, and found a more sympathetic response
from Mr. E. S. Montagu, who had become Secretary of State
for India. By the end of August the state of Mrs. Besant’s
health alarmed her friends. Agitation for her release had
grown rapidly in volume in India, the women vigorously
joining in. She was removed to Coimbatore. The Govern­
ment of India, 5 September, was prepared to recommend the
removal of restrictions placed upon the internees, provided it
was satisfied they would refrain from “ unconstitutional and
violent methods of political agitation during the remainder of
the war.” They answered that their methods had never been
unconstitutional.1
1For a full account of these incidents see T h e Vahan, August,
September and October, 1917.
THEOSOPHY APPLIED 425
On 15 September all three were unconditionally released
from internment. Mrs. Besant realised that her internment
had caused the Home Rule movement to leap ahead, and
had unified India in an astounding measure. Having been
elected President of the National Congress gave her the
satisfaction of knowing that India endorsed her campaign.
When she arrived in Madras she was tumultuously re­
ceived, and carried in triumph all the way to Adyar. After
a few days rest her vigour returned, and, 2 October, she left
for a political tour in the north. In December Mr. E. S.
Montagu arrived to investigate the possibilities for Reform.
Mrs. Besant waited upon him and the Viceroy (Lord
Chelmsford) in deputation.
The Theosophical Convention was held this year in
Calcutta, as the National Congress, over which Mrs. Besant
presided, was held there. She announced to the Congress
that she was determined to keep up political propaganda
throughout the coming year. The Theosophical Convention
Lectures were given by Mr. Jinarajadasa, Mr. Arundale,
Mr. Wadia and Mr. T. Sadashiva Iyer, the subject being
“ The Theosophical Outlook.” Mrs. Besant said that
individual liberty of thought and speech is essential alike to
the growth of the individual and the progress of Society . .
The Theosophical Society must be ready to suffer for it, be
ready to struggle for . . . liberty of speech, freedom of
debate, in matters religious, intellectual, moral, political . . .
When The Theosophical Society fears to stand by Freedom,
then shall it be cut down and left to wither away ; better a
prison for the body than a dungeon for the mind.” 1
In the United States a special activity was the formation of
a Lotus Bureau to teach Theosophy to Children. In Australia,
Bishop Leadbeater announced to the Sydney Lodge that
H.P.B. had asked him to give them a message from her to the
Convention in which she was reported to have said that the
many lines of work chosen by the members would not have
1Presidential Address, G e n e r a l R ep o r t, 1917, p. 7.
426 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
been possible without her pioneering, that many times-
she had to shake and sift The Society to rid it of prejudices-
Burma felt that its Theosophical work was distinctly to
proclaim : 1. the Dhamma of the Law, in a way to meet the
modern English-educated Burman Buddhist ; and, 2. the
existence of the Sangha—the Brotherhood of Adepts, and the
Path that leads to Them.” In Russia the Section was still
active under Mme. Kamensky’s direction. Mr. Jinarajadasa
completed his Ritual of the Mystic Star—a formof ceremonial
service intended for public use, which was approved by some
of the Masters, and which had been given to him to do by
Mrs. Besant. This ritual is gradually making its way and is-
in use by groups in several countries.
Dr. Arundale says it was in this year that Dr. Besant
first asked him if he was willing to prepare to be, possibly,
the next President of The Theosophical Society.
1918
In the “ Watch-Tower” Notes in the January Theosophisl,.
Mrs. Besant set The Society its future tasks : 1. To permeate
the mental atmosphere with Theosophical ideas and teach­
ings, that these thoughts might inspire and guide ; 2. Educa­
tion was to be re-cast; 3. Penology reformed ; 4. Labour to
be raised from drudgery to creative joy ; 5. The submerged
classes no longer to be the disinherited; 6. No differing
standard of morality for men and women.
She further said that the success of Mr. Montagu’s visit
was of vital importance, not only to India, but to The Theoso­
phical Society, “ for the position of our members is a very
difficult one, and religious freedom is in serious danger in
India . . . for without religious freedom life becomes intoler­
able. . . .’’ These “ Watch-Tower” notes were cut out by
the Government from copies posted overseas. Thus
readers were unable to see her rebuttal and proofs denying
the charge that she had been in league with Germany during.
THEOSOPHY APPLIED 427
the war, and had been supplied with funds from that
source.
At the S. India Convention, held in Adyar, 29 March to
1 April, Mrs. Besant spoke on “ Theosophy and National
Life.” She presided also at other Federation Conferences.
When the terms of the Montagu-Chelmsford Reforms
proposal were made known, Mrs. Besant was disappointed
on the grounds that they ignored the Right of India to
Liberty, and only considered how some fragmentary share of
executive and legislative power could be doled out without
altering British control.' She lectured far and wide on “ Why
India wants Home Rule ; ” for, she said, “ Freedom is the
birthright of every nation, Self-government is necessary to the
self-respect and dignity of a people.”
On 23 September, the President addressed the Bombay
Lodge on “ Life after Death,” when she expressed the view,
often afterwards much quoted, that by their sacrifices in the
war the young men would return quickly to birth to lay the
foundations of a nobler civilisation.
As Mr. Jinarajadasa had been unable to obtain a pass­
port to leave India for Australia, he spent the year in India
and travelled about among the Lodges, using his gifts of
thought and speech to explain the Teaching of Theosophy :
1. as to God ; 2. as to Man.
Mr. Arundale concerned himself mainly with Educa­
tional matters, in addition to his active support and co­
operation with Mrs. Besant in her political plans. Because
of his “ passionate sympathy for youth and his remark­
able genius for organisation,” he played a leading part in the
development of The Society for the Promotion of National
Education, which had been launched in Calcutta in the
preceding December. This new University scheme was to
be independent of Government. Its Vice-Chancellor was the
celebrated poet Rabindranath Tagore, and the Pro-Chancellor
Sir S. Subramaniya Iyer (formerly Vice-President of The
1T h e C o m m o n w ea l, 12 July, 1918, p. 17.
428 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Theosophical Society). The Governing Body was composed
of the leading educationists of India. In July the first College
was opened at Damodar Gardens, leased to it by The
Theosophical Society.
In Australia, Mr. Martyn felt disturbed about the develop­
ment of the Old (Liberal) Catholic Church. Bishop Lead-
beater had been so closely associated with the work of The
Society in Australia, that Martyn felt his vigorous promotion
of the Church would lead to confusion of the two in the
public mind. At the Convention, March, Martyn submitted
three Resolutions : 1. That the Theosophical Society dis­
claims any official association with the Old Catholic Church,
or any division of the Christian Church or with any other
Religious organisation, and reasserts its firm adherence to the
first Object of the Society . . . 2. That the activities of The
Theosophical Society and the Old Catholic Church be at all
times carefully distinguished from each other, and conducted
in different premises ; 3. That all priestly titles in the Old
Catholic Church be avoided in connection with Theosophical
activities. Most speakers heartily endorsed the spirit of the
Resolutions. Bishop Leadbeater emphasised that there was
no official relation whatever between the two organisations,
but in the minds of many there seemed to be a connection
because the same great Masters were behind both.
In her Presidential Address at Convention, Mrs. Besant
said it was the twelfth time she had from the Chair addressed
“ The Theosophical Society in every part of the world." She
thought the six years ahead would see the turmoil and change
which would usher in the new Era ; but first the old ruins
had to be cleared away. The Society should supply many
workers for this purpose, for there was much rough pioneer
work to be done. Reports were imperfect, but there was
much to show that the position of The Society had improved.
India had been active and had subsidised vernacular journals
in Hindi, Bengali, Gujeráti, Marathi, Telugu, Canarese, Tamil
and Malayalam. Australia was spending £8,000 for its first
THEOSOPHY APPLIED 429'
school under the Australian Theosophical Trust. This Sec­
tion had greatly benefited by the lectures of Mr. L. W.
Rogers and Bishop Irving S. Cooper from America, and
Bishop Wedgwood from England. Owing to this intensive
work, which aroused great public interest, the membership
had rapidly increased. In the Netherlands East Indies the
work went on with that depth and strength that has been
peculiarly distinctive of the work there. A National Society
was chartered in Egypt. Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Iceland
and Finland, now all chartered, proposed a Federation for
closer co-operation.
Mr. Alan Leo passed away. He had been the great
modern pioneer in restoring dignity and spirituality to the
ancient science of Astrology, through his deep study of
Theosophy.
P R O B L E M S OE N E U T R A L IT Y
I Pledge myself never to listen without protest to any evil thing
spoken of a brother Theosophist, and to abstain from condemning others.
—H. P. B l a v a t s k y , L u cife r , Dec., 1888.
The only man who is absolutely wrong in his methods is the one
who does nothing.
—H . P. B lavatsky
1919
IN January and February Mrs. Besant toured India
including Sind, where immense processions accompanied
her in many towns. Unexpected problems arose when
Mr. Gandhi advocated the “ peaceful” breaking of laws,
chosen for the purpose by a Committee, as a protest against
certain Government ordinances. This action checked the
strong onward rush of the Home Rule Movement. Some
technical flaws were used to break up the solidarity of the
All-India Home Rule League. The united front was never
again achieved. Mrs. Besant and others immediately organ­
ised a National Home Rule League along her original lines,
to lead the steadier sections of the people along constitu­
tional ways.
Showing how strong the interest in education had be­
come in The Society, it was proposed early this year to form
an International Board for Theosophical Education, with a
General Council consisting of General Secretaries, and an
Executive Committee in each country to manage its own
affairs. The President of The Theosophical Society was to
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 431
be the first Chairman of the Council. This scheme did not
■come into operation. It is noteworthy that this wide-spread
interest in Education has been almost the only movement
within The Society which has not at some time or other been
strongly opposed.
When Mrs. Besant left India for England, Mr. Wadia
went with her as one of the Home Rule League delegates.
After five years’ absence, Mrs. Besant was welcomed with
great enthusiasm, and members came from the Continent,
from Chile, Australia and America to greet her. She
gave much of her time to the Indian Reform Bill, then on its
slow way through Parliament.
Mrs. Besant presided over the Convention for England
and Wales, when the chief discussion was on Mr. Arundale’s
views on Reconstruction. He thought it might be profitable
to add to the First Object the words : “ The members of
which believe in the existence of Elder Brethren in the
superhuman . . . just as they know of the existence of
younger brethren in the sub-human kingdoms of Nature.”
To substitute for the Second Object : “ To spread a know­
ledge of the common origins of all great Religions and to
popularise their common teachings.” He thought the Third
Object “ had arrested materialism ” ; and that we might now
introduce Theosophy “ into the known, in addition to its
undoubted duty of championing the unknown.” He preferred
to have “ but one great Object for The Theosophical Society
—an amended First Object proclaiming our belief in the
existence of Elder Brethren as completing the circle of
Universal Brotherhood, which we declare to be a fact in
Nature, and which we seek to make increasingly patent
through the agency of our Society.” 1
The President reminded members that they could in
practice carry out any scheme for a special purpose and make
admission into a Lodge subject to such purpose, but they
' “ Why not Reconstruction in The Theosophical Society ? ” T h e
T h e o s o p h is l, March. 1919, p. 519, e t s eq .
432 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
could not commit the vyhole Society, nor could they make
obligatory a belief in the existence of the Masters. One
practical problem needed legal consideration—in changing
the Objects they might possibly lose all their property. In
May, Mr. Baillie Weaver and M. Charles Blech conferred on
the advisability of calling a general meeting of members in
some neutral capital to consider how to resume as soon as
possible Theosophical relations and propaganda on the
Continent. When her advice was sought on this matter the
President thought the time was not ripe for such action. She
presided over Federation Conferences in Harrogate, Bath,
Birmingham and London, but most of her time during
August and September was spent sweeping round the
country speaking on “ Why India wants Home Rule.” In
October she gave four lectures at Queen’s Hall on The
War and the Future : 1. The War and the Builders of the
Commonwealth ; 2. Its Lessons on Fraternity ; 3. On
Equality ; 4. On Liberty.
Mr. Martyn went on a visit to the United States, and
was warmly received as a lecturer and well-known worker.
He did not approve of the Constitution of the Liberal
Catholic Church and wished it to be remodelled. He wanted
the Church to be conducted by volunteer laymen (instead of by
professional priests), not set apart from the world, but ordained
in the prescribed manner. He also took up the questions
on Reconstruction as set forth by Mr. Arundale. He had
two proposals to make : 1. For emergency purposes a
representative Committee should always be available to
attend to details under the supervision of the President; 2.
To secure and train a number of Theosophical World
Workers. A two-year course of training should be provided
for them.
Martyn expressed his views in three pamphlets which
were widely circulated in the United States and elsewhere.1
1S h o u ld W e R eco n str u ct. T sa rism , o r R eco n str u ctio n in th e C h u rch .
T h e W orld T e a ch er a n d D e m o cr a cy .
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 433
His plea was that the profound sense of independence,
combined with a good deal of mental capacity, seemed
to be the qualities adapted to and requiring democrat­
ic expression.' It was natural that the evolved man of
today should require the practice and experience of thinking
out the wider problems of life for himself, and taking such
active part in these wider affairs as is involved in selecting
his own leaders and his chief administrative officials. Stand­
ing at the threshold of a new era nothing seemed more clear
than that this principle of democracy should be closely
associated with it.
Since Mr. Warrington was head of both The Theosophi-
cal Society, as General Secretary (or National President, as
is the title used in the United States), and of the E. S.,
opinion had grown up that these posts combined gave
him too much power. A group was presently formed which
worked under the title of “ Towards Democracy League,”
urged by the idea that The Society, as such, should be free
from all entanglements with any Cause whatsoever.
A study of the magazines of this period shows that there
was an uneasiness lest the priesthood of the Liberal
Catholic Church, composed mostly of prominent workers in
The Society, should lead to the dominance of ecclesiastical
influence, and so draw it into the sectarianism from
which it had always kept clear. Many Sections passed
resolutions disclaiming any official association with any and
all divisions of the Christian Church, or with any religious or
anti-religious bodies, and affirmed the entire liberty of belief
or disbelief of each Fellow, and his freedom to work in any
organisations he might wish—“ whether closely associated
in the public mind with The Theosophical Society or not.” 1
When the American Section met in Convention, Chicago,
4 September, the question of the relation of The Society to
the Liberal Catholic Church was very fully discussed, for it
was charged by some that if priests of the Church worked at
1See T h e V ahan, Nov. 1918.
28
434 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Krotona1 this was a “ rank violation of the ideals upon
which The Society was founded.” Mr. Warrington pointed
out that though “ sanction and encouragement ” had been
given to the new Church by Mrs. Besant and Bishop Lead-
beater, The Society as such had not done so. He recalled
that the “ same kind of sanction and encouragement was
given to Buddhism by Col. Olcott and Mr. Leadbeater, and
to Hinduism by Mrs. Besant in the early days . . . ” 2 A
cablegram was received from Sydney from Bishops Wedg­
wood, Leadbeater and Cooper declaring “ Society and Church
absolutely independent.” 1 Opinion was expressed that there
was danger in having pledged priests in official positions, as
that might result in complete dominance of The Society by
the head of the L.C.C. It was urged that all priests of the
L.C.C. holding offices or positions of trust in the Section be
asked to resign, in order that 1 he Theosophical Society might
preserve impartiality towards all religions and sects. A
cablegram was sent to Mrs. Besant asking her opinion, and
she replied that she “ disapproved any disabilities imposed
on religious grounds.”
After touring in India, Mr. Jinarâjadâsa went in April to
Java, and on to Australia and New Zealand, winning great
appreciation for Theosophy. He was writing a notable series
1In 1910 a Theosophical Centre was started, in pursuance of
Mrs. Besant’s recommendation to Mr. Warrington to found a Centre, which
was to be a training ground for leaders, and to establish and maintain a
School or Institute of Theosophy. In April 1912 a site was purchased in
Hollywood, and named Krotona. When Mr. Warrington became General
Secretary in 1912, both The Theosophical Society and the E.S. were
combined in Krotona and the property was under Mrs. Besant’s control,
but managed by a local Committee. It proved somewhat difficult to
maintain financially. In 1919-21 problems arose, and criticism was focus­
sed on Krotona. Eventually, 1922, Mrs. Besant decided to sell sufficient
of the property to pay off the mortgage, and to retain a suitable section of
the Estate for the E.S. Anyone thinking the property was owned directly
by the American Section could have his donation transferred to the
Section. The Section Headquarters were transferred back to Chicago
and finally to Wheaton. The whole property was eventually sold. The
Krotona Institute and the E. S. offices were transferred to a new Krotona
at Ojai.
2T h e M e s sen g er , Sept. 1919. 3 I b id ., Oct. 1919.
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 435
of articles in The Theosophist on Firsl Principles o f Theosophy,
which, when published as a book, became a most popular
study course.
Mrs. Besant left England, 26 November, for Benares, to
preside over the International Convention, where her lectures
were on “ The Duty of The Theosophical Society.” In her
Presidential Address she said that the remarkable fact of the
year was the extension of The Society, mainly because it
gave rational explanations of the difficulties through which the
world had struggled. New National Societies were : Ireland,
Canada, Mexico while Germany, Austria and Hungary
were revived. Denmark and Iceland together had formed
a Section. Belgium felt free to begin work again ; since 1913
this Section has been under the direction of M. Gaston Polak
as General Secretary. The removal of war restrictions
seemed to release new life everywhere.
1920
Mrs. Besant’s Diary shows that throughout 1920 her
main activities were still political. Her arrival in Madras, 11
January, was the occasion of an exceptional display of
enthusiasm from the public generally, and from the many
organisations with which she was associated. The same had
been the case along the way, when the masses at each place
wished to honour the woman who seemed to embody ‘ the
very soul of India, and “ idealised Indian ways.” Requests
to lecture poured in upon her from every part of India,
and from the Theosophical world. She felt that for some
years more her chief job was India. But before the year was
out she was finding it difficult to maintain a steady growth.
She would not yield to extremists, and found herself deserted
By hitherto staunch supporters. She felt that the Non-
Co-operation movement, menaced “ the very existence
of India, her spiritual life, and her spiritual mission to
humanity.” She called to Theosophists as lovers of ordered
436 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
freedom to range themselves against such anarchy as she
thought the movement threatened to bring about.
In the March Theosophist, Mrs. Besant published a
“ Letter to the T.S. on the Liberal Catholic Church." She
said that Brotherhood without distinction was often called
“ neutrality,” but meant “ a loving recognition of each creed
as one of the roads by which the Highest may be reached
. . . a readiness to serve all. . . ” The unwise zeal of
some Church members had caused friction in Great Britain,
Australasia and America. Protestant traditional feelings
against Roman Catholicism played their part. She regretted
her name had been used by both sides. “ Lectures on
Religions come within our Second Object ; proselytism breeds
antagonism and is against our principles.” Lodges were at
liberty to restrict their membership to members of a particular
religion, but should be careful not to grow narrow. There
was need to recall Christianity to its deeper spiritual principles
and to bring back the more occult teachings. . . . It was the
policy of The Theosophical Society definitely not to identify
itself with any doctrinal or theological issue of any religion or
church, or to limit in any way the “ broad platform of our
Theosophical Movement which we especially cherish. . .
Another problem showed itself in an acute form in
America, where adverse opinion had begun to be formulated
against the Section administration, on the plea that it needed
reform along more democratic lines. Mr. Wadia had gone to
the United States in the latter part of 1919 as technical
adviser to the India delegation to the International Labour
Conference held at Washington, D. C. He was the
Hon. Manager of the Theosophical Publishing House. Adyar,
with branches in London and Krotona. Mr. Warrington in­
vited him to stay longer than at first intended, in order to
give him some assistance in the difficulties which had arisen.
He persuaded Mr. Warrington to take a well-deserved rest
and go to India for a year or two (as he had worked hard
1T h e T h eo so p h ist, March, 1920, Supplement, p. xiii, c t seq .
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 437
for eight years to create Krotona), and evolved a plan to put
before Mrs. Besant whereby Krotona could become the
Headquarters of the American Theosophical Society, owned
and controlled by members and their elected representatives.
The Towards Democracy League agreed with these views.
This League announced that as “ the T. S. must take its
place with those who are striving towards world-democracy
. . . a band of harmonious and constructively inclined F.T.S.
at Krotona are endeavouring to promote that brotherly toler­
ance which expresses itself through a spiritually democratic
form of government. . . . ” Its Object was : “ The promulga­
tion and application of the Ideals of Democracy in The
Theosophical Society and the Body Politic.” On his journey
back through eleven other towns, Mr. Wadia was eagerly
welcomed and many believed him to be Mrs. Besant’s
“ agent.”
On 18 March Mr. Warrington resigned his office, to
take effect upon the acceptance of it by Mr. L. W. Rogers,
the Section’s Vice-President. Mr. W adia took as his
special slogan the words “ Back to Blavatsky.” He laid
stress on the idea that The Theosophical Society was
in his opinion not following the lines laid down by
H. P. B., and was in danger of being overtaken by the fate
she said would happen to it should it fall short of its mission.
By the time he left America he had so interested himself
in the outlook of the Towards Democracy League that
Mr. Rogers felt it necessary, 21 May, to send a cable to
Mrs. Besant regretfully but emphatically protesting against
his “ unwarranted interference in Section politics . . .” In
his favour it was argued “ Mr. Wadia took part in the
affairs of the American Section only at the request of
Mr. Warrington and the Administration, and that he was
only condemned when the evidence compelled him to dis­
approve of the actions and policies of the administration.’
The Section Board of Trustees found it necessary to
remove from their Section offices some of the chief leaders
438 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
of the Towards Democracy League: 1. The National
Secretary, Mr. Foster Bailey ; 2. the Editor of the American
Section, Mrs. Alice A. Evans (afterwards Mrs. Alice A.
Bailey) ; 3. Publicity Director, Mr. Woodruff G. Sheppard,
on the grounds, among others, that they were wholly out of
harmony with the administration. Much objection was
taken to these dismissals. The League supported Miss Isabel
B. Holbrook, a well-known lecturer and worker, as National
President in the coming election.
When Mrs. Besant wrote concerning the problems
affecting the Section, she said to the members in general,
“ Will not you, as you have now a new General Secretary
and a new Headquarters . . . try, even if some of you blame
and find fault with him, to emulate his work in serving the
Society." These words were used by some as meaning
she endorsed Mr. Rogers’ candidacy. Foster Bailey cabled to
her saying her letter caused members to think that if they
voted against Rogers they were disloyal to her. To which,
9 May, she gave the important ruling, “ President cannot
interfere election choice. No question loyalty to me in­
volved . . . ” 1
At the Convention held, 12 July, Mr. Rogers was
elected General Secretary (National President). The voting
showed commendation of removing Section Headquarters
to Chicago, establishing a Section-owned Book Concern,
and passed a hearty vote of thanks to Mr. Warrington.
It condemned : 1. the custom of circularising the Section ;
2. the work of the Theosophical Towards Democracy
League and its methods, and approved the dismissal of the
three officers. It endorsed the protest against Mr. W adias
interference, but thanked him for his brilliant services on
the platform. The voting was by delegates, not by proxies,
and as the opposition held 1,400 proxies, it referred to itself as
the “ Committee of 1,400." It drew up an elaborate Petition
to Mrs. Besant and, after recital of all its views and the
1Letter from Foster Bailey to Mrs. Besant, 12 May, 1921.
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 439
publication of many documents, argued that Mrs. Besant had
the right and should veto the majority decisions of the Ameri­
can Convention, and make a new statement of principles
applicable to the situation.
The Indian Section held a Convention in Benares,
24-26 October, when Mrs. Besant spoke on “ The Inner
Government of the World.” She said that in dealing with
things as she saw them, her conclusions were not binding on
anyone.
At the International Convention, held at Adyar, in
December, the President gave four lectures on “ The Great
Plan,” dealing with the Evolution of our Solar System,
according to Religion, Science and the Akâshic Records ;
Chains, Rounds, Manus and Bodhisattvas.
Early in the year a Conference of Anglican Bishops was
held at Lambeth Palace, London, at which Bishops were
present from all over the world. They appointed a Committee
to consider the relation of Christianity to Theosophy and to
other organisations. The deputation from the National Society
explained the principle of neutrality for which The Society
stands, and clarified the Theosophical position of abso­
lute freedom of thought with regard to even the most
valued of our teachings. Miss Charlotte Woods, a deep
student of Christianity, submitted a brief statement on
the “ seemingly elusive nature of what we teach and
hold to be Theosophy.” The Lambeth Report itself
said : “ The attraction of Theosophy for many thought­
ful minds lies largely in its presentation of Christian faith
and life as a quest . . . Like Tertullian and Ireneeus
we must insist on the plain meaning of Scripture and the
unity and continuity of traditional Christian belief. But also
like Clement and Origen we may claim all life and learning
as food for Christian thought, developing what might be
called true Christian Theosophy, embracing the spiritual
1Encyclical Letter from the Bishops in Conference, with the Resolu­
tions and Reports.
440 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
experience of poets, saints and mystics and reverently specu­
lating beyond the borders of revelation. . .
Bishop Leadbeater, though in ill-health, had concerned
himself chiefly with Co-Masonry, revising and rewriting rituals,
and conducting ceremonies. He was rendering the same
service to the Liberal Catholic Church liturgy. He published
The Science o f the Sacraments, embodying the results of his
clairvoyant research into Christian ceremonial. He had been
made Administrator in Australia of the Co-Masonic Order,
and had taken over, at Mrs. Besant’s request, leadership there
of the E.S., replacing Mr. Martyn, who had become still more
opposed to the Liberal Catholic Church, its Constitution and
its leaders.
Mr. Jinarajadasa was in Australia for several months,
presenting his themes in his own fresh and beautiful way. He
returned from his long tour in June and, at the Presi­
dent’s request, went to England to give his services there.
He returned to lecture at the Convention in December.
Mr. Arundale had married Rukmini, a member of a well-
known Brahman family ; her father had long been a member
of The Society.
Charters were granted to Chile, Argentina, Brazil and
Bulgaria. The first Lodges were formed in Japan and Portu­
gal, and two Centres were established in Poland. In Finland
an unusual problem arose when Mr. Pekka Ervast wished to
divide the Finnish members into two autonomous Sections,
“ One for Occult research [an “ Occult Division of the T.S.
in Finland ”], of which he would be the head, and one for
political and social activity.” The President did not find it
possible to compel members to take a label, and suggested
he should from a body for his line of study within The
Society. This did not satisfy him, so he formed an organisa­
tion of his own.' France was building up Lodges in Tonkin.
In both Germany and Russia there were considerable
1T h eo so p h y (England), Feb. 1921, p. 43, e l scq .
2G e n e r a l R ep o r t, p. 9.
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 441
difficulties. In the latter country The Society had been closed
in December 1919. The members had been requested toteach
that there is no God, and that religion is the primary
cause of all injustice, ignorance and misery. Madame Kamen­
sky refused, and she and friends escaped in disguise.
1921
The “ Back to Blavatsky ” movement had gained
strength in the United States. It was fostered by those who
felt opposed to the leaders in The Society. Bishop Irving
S. Cooper thought the stand taken was that Bishop Lead-
beater’s investigations were not acceptable to some “ because
they seemed to go beyond what H. P. B. taught,”and because
the results of his investigations did not conform to what they
considered “ the limits of Theosophical truth. . . .” Many
thought this movement indicated an irresistible human
tendency to drift into orthodoxy.
Mrs. Besant deprecated as a form of orthodoxy that
there was any rigidity about the “ end-of-the-century move­
ment,” when some new “ messenger” might bring fresh
light to the world, and that there could be no other teacher
sent to enlighten the minds of men.1 She thought this
storm in the United States and elsewhere was really some
of the reaction from the War, when the whole emotional
world had been thrown into whirlwinds and tumultuous
waves, and strained nerves caused by these impacts led to
irritability and distorted views and stirred party strife. It was
open to all to condemn what they thought a bad or corrupt
system, but she protested against personal attacks. Till mat­
ters grew calmer, she suspended the main activities of the
E. S. in America-for a year, and asked members to think and
speak peace, and to act in a manner which would bring peace.'
1It is to be noted that these “ Movements" do not necessarily start
exactly in the year, ’75 of any century ; see ante p. 55.
2From Private Papers.
442 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
In India, Mrs. Besant was devising means to coun­
teract the Non-Co-operation movement, which was gathering
momentum, and was enrolling “ volunteers ” to prepare for
“ civil disobedience ”—to parents, teachers and laws. She
wanted the next step forward to be union, not the persistence
of division.
On 31 March, Mrs. Besant replied to the Petition from
“ The Committee of 1,400,” in an “ Official Document.” She
thought it obvious that the Back to Blavatsky movement was
“ intended to depreciate the later exponents of Theosophical
ideas, as though growth were confined to H. P. B. herself.
. . . Anything I have to say to a National Society, I send
through the General Secretary, elected by that Society. . . ..
To come to the bedrock of principle on which my answer to
the Petition is based, a National Society, or Section is
autonomous, and no appeal lies to the General Council."
Mrs. Besant cited those matters on which appeal may be
made to the President, and said : “ I find nothing in the
Constitution which permits an appeal to the General Council
by a dissident miniority within a National Society, and the
Bye-Laws of the T. S. in America cannot give to the General
Council a power of interference with an autonomous National
Society, the freedom of which is guaranteed by the Constitu­
tion.” She concluded by appealing to them all to throw the
past behind them and “ to go forward together to the helping
of the world. . . . ”
Mrs. Besant had rendered such great services in the
Scout Movement in India, that, in April, the Chief-Scout, Sir
Robert Baden-Powell, appointed her Hon. Commissioner for
India, and Mr. Arundale was appointed one of the two
Madras Provincial Commissioners.1
1Scouting was introduced into India in 1909, but was open only to
European and Anglo-Indian boys—
i.e., to Christians. Theosophists
started troops for Indians about 1914-15 and Mrs. Besant took an interest
in and promoted them. She organised the “ Indian Boy Scouts Associa­
tion," which was enthusiastically taken up by Mr. Arundale and others.
Sir Robert was so impressed by the progress of this movement that he
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 443
The President had received letters from America asking
her advice on the election of the General Secretary, as there
were conflicting views still strongly agitating the Section. She
said that giving such advice was not included in her duties, but
she would welcome and work with those who were elected
to represent their country. “ The policy of the T. S. is not
to be imposed upon it by one person, but is to be a policy
jointly agreed upon by all. . . . Individually, we are all
free. Corporately, the Council decides.” 1
Mrs. Besant arrived in London, 12 June. She made
short visits to some towns, partly for Theosophical work and
partly to acquaint the British public on the Indian political
situation. She gave a series of lectures at Queen’s Hall, 26 June
to 17 July, on “ Britain’s Place in the Great Plan ” : 1. The
Inner Government of the World, or the Power that makes
for Righteousness; 2. The Outer Methods—The Worlds
Opportunity ; 3. The Conflict of East and West ; 4. The
Ideal of the Future.
In July Mrs. Besant toured the chief provincial towns,
speaking on “ Reconstruction of a Shattered World.” She
presided over the Convention of the Society in England and
Wales and gave the Blavatsky Lecture. She urged every­
one to cultivate a larger tolerance. She said : “ There
ought never to be the slightest attempt at compulsion in
matters of thought within the T. S. A man loses no freedom
in coming into it, but he gains enormously. You may reject
every one of the teachings we call Theosophical and yet be
a perfectly good and loyal member of the f\ S.”2
‘‘ While I strive rigidly to guard that great neutrality of
the T. S. in order that no shadow of truth shall ever be shut
out from it, at the same time I rejoice as more and more
decided to throw open the ranks to all existing Scout organisations. The
first big Scout Rally in Madras was held under the great banyan tree
at Adyar.
1T h e T h eo so p h isl, May, 1921, p. 110.
: I b id ., Aug., 1921, p. 329.
444 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
bodies spring up from the Theosophical inspiration and take
up special lines of work . . . culture . . . art, because we must
realise there is nothing outside Theosophy which is the
Divine Wisdom mightily and sweetly ordering all things.” 1
Mrs. Besant was instrumental in raising a fund of
£5,000 to assist Mr. Sinnett in his old age. He was
much touched by this gift, but did not live long to
■enjoy it. He passed away on 27 June at the age of 81.
While H. P. Blavatsky was the first to arouse wide interest
in the West in Occultism by the publication of Isis Unveiled,
yet it is generally conceded that it was Mr. Sinnett “ who
launched the bark of Theosophy upon the sea of western
thought.”
As Mr. Jinarajadasa said, Those who have read the
letters which passed in 1880 between Mr. Sinnett and the
Masters on occult teachings . . . are forcibly struck by
Mr. Sinnett’s ability in arranging the fragmentary teachings
given to him in a synthetic doctrine. . . . The magnificent
scheme of planetary evolution slowly dawned on his mind,
but only after most laborious thinking. But he grasped out­
lines and clearly expounded them with enthusiasm.”2
Early in July it was announced that the members had
ratified the unanimous nomination by the General Council of
Mrs. Besant for re-election as President for a further seven
years.
The Conference held in Paris, 23-26 July, was
called the “ First World Congress of The Theosophical
Society,” over which Mrs. Besant presided. She prefaced
the Congress with two lectures at the Theatre Champs
Elysees on—The Theosophical Ideal.
The Congress was attended by 22 General Secretaries,
(making possible one of the largest attendances at the Gen­
eral Council), 39 countries were represented and 1400 delegates
were present. The main subjects for consideration were :
1 Ibid., Sep t., 1921, p. 349.
2 Ib id ., A ug., 1921. PP. 408-9.
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 445
1. The Mission of the Theosophical Society in the World—
opened by the President ; 2. The Problem of Education in
the New Era.
On 26 July, Mrs. Besant gave a lecture at the Sorbonne
on Theosophy. When she entered, the packed audience of
over 3,000 rose and applauded her. At the end of her
speech she was given an ovation lasting for ten minutes ;
and again outside in the street.
For a further three days other organisations, with which
members were closely associated, also held Conferences—
The Theosophical Order of Service ; The Order of the Star
in the East, presided over by J. Krishnamurti ; and the
Round Table.
In August a group of some 200 members in the Sydney
Lodge (now numbering about 800) banded themselves to­
gether to form “ The T.S. Loyalty League." It had three
objects : 1. Loyalty to the Objects of the T.S. ; 2. The
maintenance of an absolutely non-sectarian platform and
resistance to any action or movement likely to endanger
the neutrality of the Society even in appearance ; 3. Loyalty
to the good name of the Society, and the investigation of the
bona fides of individuals or institutions claiming recognition
from it.
In November the League started a magazine called
Dawn,' gradually became more and more critical of the two
chief leaders in The Society, and was frankly antagonistic to
the Liberal Catholic Church. Mrs. Besant pointed out that
as this League had no connection with The Society, therefore
she had no authority to question its actions.
Mrs. Besant stated that both as to books and The
Theosophist very little profit had been made during and since
the war ; she desired, therefore, to place The Publishing
House on a world-wide basis so that future Presidents
might have a more secure income. To this end she had
1L e P e t it P a r isie n , 27 July, 1921.
2“ A magazine devoted to the Promotion of Universal Brotherhood.”
446 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
made Mr. Wadia international manager. However, with
his defection, and the decision of the American Section to
have its own Book Concern, this world-proposal fell through.
Mr. Fritz Kunz was put in charge of the Adyar T. P. H., and
the branches in the U. S. A. and England (combined with
Ireland, Scotland and Wales) were handed over to their
respective National Societies.
On 14 December the Hindu University conferred upon
Mrs. Besant its Honour Degree of Doctor of Letters, in
“ grateful recognition” of her “ invaluable co-operation in
establishing the University.” She was “ very happy to have
this link with the loved Central Hindu College, now the
Hindu University.” She and other trustees of the College were
elected as life-members of the University Court and Council.
The International Convention was held at Benares, when
the chief lectures were : 1. Theosophy and World Problems,
by Dr. Besant ; 2. Theosophy and the Cult of Beauty, by
Mr. Jinarajadasa ; 3. Theosophy and Internationalism,
by Mr. Krishnamurti ; 4. Theosophy and Education, by
Mr. Arundale.
Surveying the Theosophical world in her Presidential
Address, Dr. Besant, drawing as usual upon the Reports of
the Sections, said : England had engaged in much propa­
ganda, assisted by Wadia (India), Rogers (America),
Miss Christie (New Zealand), Miss Codd, and Miss M.
Murchie—three times General Secretary in South Africa. In
India progress had been much hampered by the Non-Co­
operation movement. Sir Sadasiva Iyer, Judge of the
Madras High Court, put his ability into the lecture field,
as did also Mr. Knudsen. Owing to the long distances,
India started the system of having Joint General Secretaries
to assist the Chief Officer, at first two, now four—North,
South, East and West, with certain territorial boundaries.
Czechoslovakia was also restored to its place on the Roll.
Netherlands Indies found it useful to organise Lodges
according to its five vernaculars, in addition to Dutch and
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 447
Chinese. Russian refugees had begun to form Lodges in the
countries of their exile. Portugal became a Section ; as did
Spain—the result of Don José Xifré’s years of patient work,
though much opposed by the Roman Catholic Church.
Iceland formed its own Section. A Lodge in Constantinople
was attached to the English Section. Serge Brisy (Brussels)
lectured in France ; she had been decorated by the King of
Belgium for her remarkable prison-reform work.
Prof. Marcault (Pisa University), lectured consider­
ably in France and Swizerland. He stressed his favourite
subject, “ The Development of the Intuition,” at the London
Christmas Study Week, which has become an institution in
the English Section. Problems in Switzerland were ended
by Federating the Lodges which had withdrawn from the
National Society. Mr. and Mrs. Wood travelled extensively
in China, Japan, the United States and Canada.
1922
Apart from a short period in Australia, Dr. Besant
spent the year in India. She threw in her weight on the side
of the Government to maintain and strengthen law and order,
as against Non-Co-operation, and was, in consequence,
considerably misunderstood. Conditions were so serious that
she delayed her departure for Australia.
Madame de Manziarly suggested that 17 February
should be celebrated as Adyar Day, also in memory of
Colonel Olcott’s passing away, and as Bishop Leadbeater’s
birthday. The first Adyar Day was duly celebrated, when
the great services of Col. Olcott to The Society were re­
called. Some of its precious Archives were on exhibition,
Mr. Jinarâjadâsa had, when sorting and arranging them,
“ discovered” the early 1886 manuscript of The Secret
Doctrine. He caused H. P. B.’s Scrapbooks to be securely
and beautifully bound.1
1See T h e T h co so p h isl, March, 1922, pp. 533-4.
448 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
In March, Dr. Besant addressed a Circular to all mem­
bers, in which she outlined the events which had led to the
problems in America and Australia. Some of the genesis of
the attack, she said, went as far back as the days of H. P. B.
She referred to the comment that she had cutoff “ physical
brain intercourse with the Masters ” (because of the immense
strain of her political work). But, she said, “ the superphysi­
cal line of communication,” had never been broken. She had
always explained that she could “ obtain, whenever necessary,
the approval or disapproval ” of her Master on any point on
which she was in doubt. This question was raised to make it
appear that Dr. Besant was entirely dependent upon Bishop
Leadbeater for occult information and direction. But from
Bishop Leadbeater’s letters to Dr. Besant over very many
years, it is clear that in all official matters he waited upon
her lead, ready and willing to uphold her decisions. As to
his own work, he shouldered all the responsibility. In
“ occult matters ” and instructions, they exchanged and
checked experiences, both being very careful to be as
accurate as possible ; both received direct “ orders,” which
the other did not question.
Dr. Besant dealt with other statements such as those
contained in Mr. Martyn’s much quoted letter, written
20 May 1921, when Dr. Besant asked him to hand over the E.S.
work in Australia to Bishop Leadbeater. It was marked
“ Private and Confidential,” in Mr. Martyn’s own hand­
writing.1 But copies of this letter were sent by him to a
number of people, and it was printed and circulated by the
O. E. Library Critic, Dr. Stokes saying it had come into his
possession “ without restriction as to its use.”2
Dr. Besant said she did not mind that the Loyalty
League claimed it was to “ offset the E. S. influence," pro­
vided the E. S. members resigned from it, since “ to work
from within a body in order to destroy it ” did not seem to
1This letter is in the Archives.
- Others declared Mr. Martyn had tried to stop its publication.
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 449
her to be honest. E. S. members had to choose, they could
not remain in both.1
“ Whom will Ye Serve ? ” was the title of an important
article which appeared in The Theosophist.' Dr. Besant recit­
ed the trials which beset The Society and mentioned its
opponents who had tried to damage its structure and impede
its progress. The weapons of calumny and slander had
been used to break the ranks, and had gained advantages,
but had lost in the long run.
As to the dart flung at her that she was ungrateful to
memory jaf H.P.B., Dr. Besant said that few if any of those
who said these things knew or served H.P.B. as she herself
had, and they attacked those who were nearest to her and
were her pupils and defenders. It was well if they did
study her works, without help from later knowledge, if they
distrusted it.
Dr. Besant left with Mr. Warrington, 22 April, going
first to Colombo, and was there met by Mr. Peter de
Abrew who took them to the Musaeus College for
Buddhist girls, built up by the “ indomitable energy and
courage of Mrs. Musaeus Higgins, always aided and support­
ed by Peter de Abrew.” In twenty-nine years they had
created a recognised College and School for Buddhist girls ;
from this College Buddhist teachers are sent out all over the
Island as Principals of Buddhist schools.
Dr. Besant arrived in Sydney 9 May, and immediately
dealt with the problems which were occupying the members.
Earlier in the year, at the Annual Convention, the delegates
passed a vote of confidence, by 86 to 15, in Dr. Besant and
Bishop Leadbeater, thus showing that the difficulties were
confined mainly to Sydney.
She refused to consider the “ accusations ” which were
distributed at the door of a meeting and published in the
newspapers. Being misunderstood, she made it clear in the
1 T h e T h eo so p h ist, Supplement, 1922.
’ March, 1922, p. 588, e l scq .
29
450 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Daily Telegraph, 19 May, that accusations of crime and felony
should go to a court of Justice ; but as she was the chief
officer “ assailed,” on accusations of conduct with which the
law does not deal, she refused to answer. Dr. Besant felt that
this attack was really aimed at herself, even though all the
old “ accusations” of 1905-6 and 1912-3 against Bishop
Leadbeater were revived. Inquiry into these had been made
in 1906 and 1913 and she would not reopen the matter.
Dr. Besant was charged with cloaking Bishop Leadbeater by
her influence, of preventing discussion, of refusing private
enquiry, of subterfuge, of bluff and of side-stepping. Two'
prominent members of The Society in Australia, tired of the
campaign of slander, called upon the Minister for Justice and
told him that they would welcome an enquiry into all the
charges made. This was done, and the official verdict of the
Crown Solicitor was, after complete exploration of every
avenue, that there was “ not enough evidence available to-
obtain conviction on any charge.” 1
Despite all troubles, Dr. Besant was given a warm
welcome, both by the members and the public. She was the
guest of honour at civic reception to her given by the Lord
Mayor of Sydney, and attended by leading citizens, and she
spoke for several organisations.
Feeling that nothing could be done to soften the bitter­
ness of opponents in the Sydney Lodge, Dr. Besant advised
the formation of the Blavatsky Lodge. This Lodge, com­
prising the larger number of the members, immediately took
a Hall holding 1,000 persons, and Mr. Jinarajadasa opened
with a series of six lectures, at which its capacity was fully
taxed.
Meanwhile, in March, Bishop Wedgwood, against whom
also attacks had been made both in England and Australia,
decided he would sever his connection with The Society,
and other organisations. He objected to his personal
character becoming a subject of controversy. His place as
1D a ily T e le g r a p h , 26 August 1922.
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 451
Presiding Bishop of the Liberal Catholic Church was filled by
Bishop Leadbeater, who retained the position till his death.
A few years later Bishop Wedgwood returned to his work in
the several organisations for which he had constantly laboured.
On 24 May, Dr. Besant addressed the students at the
Sydney University on “ The Future of India.” Owing
to the public controversy over the affairs of The Society,
Mr. A.B. Piddington, President of the public Questions Society
of the University, objected to her being asked to address the
students, because of her refusal tore-open the enquiry con­
cerning Bishop Leadbeater. As his colleagues disagreed
with him, he resigned his position. When Dr. Besant rose
to speak she found a somewhat sullen audience, but she left
it cheering.
On 1 June Dr. Besant sent a Circular to the members in 1
Australia asking them to put an end, so far as in them lay, to j
the persecution of Bishop Leadbeater, and to the attempts of '
the few who worked against her, determined to “ force ” her
“ to resign.”
Advantage was taken of Dr. Besant’s presence in Ceylon,
on her way back from Australia, to consider proposals to
form a council to foster Theosophy in the Island, and to
carry on such propaganda as would result in the creation of
enough Lodges to form a Section.
In July Mr. Wadia resigned, having come to the con­
clusion that the T.S. had strayed away from the “ Original
Programme” inspired by the “ Original Impulses ” whereby
the Masters brought it into existence through the help of their
messenger H.P.B. . . . In a long letter addressed to “ Fellow-
Theosophists ” he voiced his plaint at greater length. Fie
felt all his loyalties had been mistaken, and gave the reasons
why he thought The Society was stranded on the “ sand­
banks ” against which H.P.B. had warned it, should it
become sectarian. He joined with the United Lodge of
Theosophists. This group was originated by Robert Crosbie
(New York), who had regarded himself as a chela of Mr. Judge,
452 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
and had carried on his work. Mr. Wadia’s letter provoked
many challenging replies.1
The influence of the American and Australian troubles
was not much felt by other Sections, except in Canada,
where Mr. A.E.S. Smythe, General Secretary, opened the
columns of his Section Magazine, The Canadian Theosophisl,
to the statements discrediting the leaders of the Society.
The effect of his policy was to cause the formation of a
Canadian Federation in the West. Five Lodges withdrew,
and most of the members of the Vancouver Lodge, who
formed a new one in 1923. Mr. Smythe himself thought
that in his freedom of criticism there was no “ disrespect ”
for Dr. Besant," to whose interpretation of the Constitution
he deferred, and was convinced that he was carrying out the
“ spirit and principle of Brotherhood and Tolerance.”'1
In the United States there were still echoes of the storm
of 1920-1. The Committee of 1,400 had disbanded, and
some had joined the “ Back to Blavatsky ” movement, led
mainly by Mr. and Mrsr~Foster^Bailey on its more pro­
gressive side. They have themselves organised an “ Arcane
School,” with emphasis on intellectual development, and have
evolved their own ideas of the Inner Governance of the
world, accompanied by prophecies that The Theosophical
Society would disappear if it did not follow certain lines of
conduct.
Learning that the members of Madame Blavatsky’s once
powerful family were suffering from hardships and hunger in
Russia, a French member opened a subscription to assist
them. Enough was raised to help a large number of the
family to obtain food for six months. Alexandre Fadeef, a
nephew of H.P.B., expressed his great appreciation for this
assistance from the French members in memory of their
1See “ An Open Letter to Mr. Wadia, ” T h e o s o p h y in In d ia , Jan. and
Feb. 1923, pp. 33, e l seq .
- Mr. Smythe to Dr. Besant, 1 November 1923.
3 Ib id ., 8 Jan. 1924.
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 453
aunt.1 The two daughters of Mme Vera Jelihovsky,
H.P.B.’s sister, have for some years been the care of The
Theosophical Society. One of them has recently passed away.
For years the idea had slowly shaped of having a centre
at Adyar Headquarters where a new cultural synthesis should
be developed. It was “ to provide a meeting-place for East
and West in its spirit, its scheme of studies and its per­
sonnel.” It was to survey, as expressing the One Life, “ the
development of Mysticism, Religion, Philosophy, Literature,
Art and Science, in their various racial and national forms.”
This cultural centre was called the Brahmavidyashrama
(Brahma, God ; Vidya, Knowledge ; Ashrama, retreat). It
opened, 3 October, under the direction of Dr. James H.
Cousins. Dr. Besant hoped that young men and women
would come from the Sections, determined to train themselves
for service, and that when necessary, each Section would
make one of their members the gift of a scholarship, with the
“ promise in return to devote himself or herself to work for
The Society for three years or more at a living wage.” The
curriculum was to cover Mysticism—European and Asiatic ;
Religion—Primitive, Aryan, Semitic, Mongolian ; Philosophy
—a wide range from the Vedanta through to recent European
systems ; Literature—both ancient and modern, Eastern and
Western ; Arts and Crafts—including all phases, Eastern
and Western ; Science—a very wide range. For several
years these courses were very competently conducted and
attracted a number of students. Dr. Besant gave the first
talk each day for the first week and used, as indicating the
ground-plan of the ashrama’s work, the titles : God manifest­
ing as Will ; as Love ; as Understanding ; as Knowledge ;
and in Society.
For a number of years Mr. Joseph Bibby (Liverpool,
England) had contributed to the growth of The Society by
the production of a beautiful periodical called Bibby’s Annual.
Many thousands of copies of this artistically printed and
1 See B u lle tin T h eo so p h iq u e, 1922, pp. 149, 156.
454 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
profusely illustrated journal were sold or distributed each
year, carrying the teachings of Theosophy far and wide. It
now ceased publication, as the financial burden had grown
rather heavy. Mr. Bibby still occasionally issues a small
journal, equally beautifully produced, giving the fruits of his
long experience.
The Bhárata Samája was originated at Adyar by
members of The Society. The Samája, or League, is
intended to liberalise, internationalise and strengthen the
broad basis of Hinduism by emphasising the essentials
of Hindu Religion and Philosophy as a working creed for
daily life, which members have to accept as principles. The
first President of the League was the saintly B. T. Rarna-
chandra Rao, F.T.S. The Samája built a small temple at
Adyar, where a simplified puja is performed every day at
sunrise.
The International Convention, held at Adyar, was at­
tended by many overseas members. Dr. Besant gave two
lectures on “ Your World and Ours ; ” Mr. Jinarájadása spoke
on “ The Vision of the God-Man,” and Dr. Arundale on
“ The Centre and the Circumference.” Dr. Besant said in
her Presidential Report that she had been asked to expel
her assailants, but she had declined.1 Ninety-six new Lodges
had been chartered during the year, thus showing that
though there had been so many difficulties, the philosophy
and thé ideals for which The Society stood had found atten­
tive hearing and sympathetic response. The first Chinese
Lodge had been formed, with the great Chinese statesman
and ambassador, Dr. Wu Ting-Fang, as President, but who
passed away in June. He was intensely anxious that
Theosophy should take root in his own land, for he wished
the new China to be built up on the basis of brotherhood.
1See some interesting inferences in an article by Fritz Kunz on
“ Evidences of a Sustained Conspiracy against The Theosophical Society ;
with some Notes on the Cyclic Law,” in T h e T h eo so p h ist, Aug. 1922,
p. 505, e t seq .
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 455
Wales had been chartered, with Peter Freeman as General
Secretary.
1923
For the first five months Dr. Besant was moving about
India. Despite her age, she never hesitated to undertake
long journeys, often in great heat and dusty carriages, with
frequent disturbances at noisy railway stations where crowds
demanded to see her. She was emphasising two ideas :
1. To members, the J2oming of a World Teacher; 2. To
the public, the nature of Home Rule. She spent much of her
time at political Conferences, with responsible Indians of the
Legislature, Councils, Boards, Clubs and Leagues, discussing
the next step towards “ Dominion Status abroad and Home
Rule at home.” Only from a perusal of her personal corres­
pondence, much of which remains, can any adequate idea be
gained of Dr. Besant’s immense prestige at this time with
those Indians and British who were, with her, pulling all their
weight in the direction of Constitutional Reform.
In May she was bitten by some venomous creature,
which caused blood-poisoning and incapacitated her for some
months. It was not until August that she could again take
up active work. In order to release some of the pressure
upon her, she appointed Mr. N. Sri Ram as assistant editor
of New India, a post he held until the paper finally ceased
publication in January 1933. He became her Private Secre­
tary. He was appointed Treasurer of The Society in 1937.
Sydney was still the scene of agitation. Both in the
newspapers and in Dawn, the campaign went on in the hope
of compelling Dr. Besant to reopen an enquiry into the morals
of some members of The Society. This she still refused to do ;
then effort was made to force her to resign, by condemning
the many activities she encouraged or permitted. When she
did not yield it became clear, she said, that the issue was
“ repudiation of the policies of the President.”
456 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE. THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Mr. Martyn not only urged Dr. Besant, “ to provide
for an impartial investigation,” but added the demand that
she should make provision to bring Bishop Leadbeater’s
“ seership ” into the scope of the enquiry.
Mr. Martyn circulated a document to Lodge Presidents,
which led the General Secretary to appeal to the President
for permission to remove the Sydney Lodge and some of its
members, including Mr. Martyn,1from the Roll. She advised
him to remove his signature from the charter and from the
diplomas concerned. This was done, on the grounds that
these 12 members and the Lodge were “ a continued focus
of disturbance.”
Dr. Bean advised the President that the whole Section
Executive, by 23 votes to 8, agreed to the cancellation of the
charter and the diplomas. Among the 8 were 5 not sympa­
thetic to Mr. Martyn’s campaign, but who felt the action pro­
posed was too drastic.
After waiting for appeal from the Sydney Lodge against
this decision, and receiving none, Dr. Besant, 8 June, by
virtue of the powers vested in her under the Rules, cancelled
the charter and diplomas and caused the cancellation to be
published in an “ Official Document” in Theosophy in
Australia.1
It was argued that as the charter was signed by
Col. Olcott, and issued to the Lodge as “ The Sydney Theo-
sophical Society ” (in the early style), and as when the
Section was formed it affiliated thereto as the Sydney Lodge
of The Theosophical Society, therefore the Section had really
no authority to call for cancellation, and Dr. Besant no power
to cancel. Though now invalid, the charter was retained,
and the claim made that the Lodge derived its continuity
from Col. Olcott and was therefore legitimately carrying on
1He joined 1891, when Col. Olcott was in Sydney. It was the
Colonel’s custom to go to a city and insert an advertisement in the Press,
inviting persons interested in Theosophy to call upon him at his hotel.
' August, 1923, Supplement.
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 457
the doctrines and tenets of The Society in accordance with
its Constitution.1
As one of the members whose diploma was cancelled
was a member of the Hobart Lodge (Tasmania), trouble
there reached such a point that some of the members with­
drew and formed another Lodge,
In July, Mr. Martyn applied for legal registration of a
body to be called “ The Theosophical Society.” This neces­
sitated an injunction of restraint. In August, the injunction
having been granted, the new body registered itself as The
Independent Theosophical Society, to which the Sydney
Lodge was affiliated. This Society adopted Bye-Laws suck
as would meet the requirements of “ a parent organisation.”
With the death of Mr. Martyn, in 1924, The Indepen­
dent Theosophical Society lost its momentum and, after a
few years, died away.
France now suffered somewhat from these agitations.
The Agni and two other Lodges, following Mr. Wadia,
circularised the French Lodges demanding an enquiry into
the charges brought against Bishop Leadbeater/ The Lodge
also repeated the statements of Dr. H. N. Stokes that
Mrs. Besant and Prof. Chakravarti had corrupted the text
of the 1893 edition of The Secret Doctrine, and that only
the edition issued by the United Lodge of Theosophists
conformed to the original edition. Upon inquiry of
Mr. B. Keightley, he replied that Prof. Chakravarti had had
nothing whatever to do with it. It was Mr. Mead, much
more than Dr. Besant, who was responsible for that edition.
Dr. Besant had included in the Third Volume all the
1From Statement of Defence when the King's Hall property was
claimed from The Independent Theosophical Society, by the Theosophic­
al Society in Australia, 1924.
Rule 36(a) empowers the President to grant and cancel Charters
and Diplomas. A Lodge may expel a member, a Section a Lodge, but
neither can expel from The Society. The member, or Lodge, may be­
come attached to the Headquaters at Adyar.
2B u lle tin T h v o so p h iq u c, Jan. and April, 1923. The Agni and another
Lodge returned their charters, and were dissolved.
458 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
remainder of H. P. B.’s MSS., even those which did not
seem to him to be sufficiently prepared to justify inclusion.
Dr. Besant asked the question : “ Why not save The
Society from the Founder ? ” and recalled some of the
accusations hurled at Madame Blavatsky.1 She observed
that there were at this time two main schools in The
Society : 1. Desired to confine activities to the First and
Second Objects, chiefly to the Second, and to the technically
.religious side of Universal Brotherhood by spreading the
body of teaching called Theosophy ; 2. Devoted itself to
•carrying out the First Object—Theosophy made practical.
Mr. Smythe, Canada, thought experience had proved
“ that our greatest success has been attained where the
members have devoted themselves to the study of
Theosophy, a word which . . . expresses the widest and
highest aspirations of the human race.” Denmark and other
countries reacted to these problems by vigorously promoting
the Brotherhood Campaign.
Mr. Jinarajadasa made his first long tour in Europe.
He went first to Italy, then to Paris and on to England to
preside over the English Convention, 2-4 June, and, as the
General Secretary said, “ brought back romance to all our
work.” He spoke on “ The Coming Gospel of God our
Brother Man.” He presided at the Convention in Amsterdam
and spoke on Brotherhood ; and also at the European
Congress held at Vienna, 21-26 July, when 1,000 delegates
assembled and 35 National Societies were represented.
Many young people attended the Congress and decided to
form a European Federation of Young Workers, with
Mr. Krishnamurti as President. A League for the Federa­
tion of Nations was also formed, with Mrs. S. M. Sharpe as
Secretary. It was specially intended to bring about better
relations between German and French members ; and to work
1H. P. B. recited some of them herself. See A Modern Panarion,
p. 110, where she gives a list of eleven forms of immorality of which she
was accused; and p. 152 for a list of criticisms on the sources of her
writings.
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 459
along the line of world politics, believing that co-operation
in the widest sense is the keynote of the future. In
his opening address Mr. Jinarajadasa drew a distinction
between the Theosophical Movement and The Theosophical
Society. “ Our Society is a great centre of thought and
effort, but our work spreads beyond the limits of The Society.
. . . Theosophists have worked, not only to purify religions,
but also to inspire education with new ideals, to explain the
hidden meaning in symbolism, to link political thought Vith
spiritual conceptions. . . . Our work as individual Theo­
sophists has been to iheosophise activity after activity, which
men do not ordinarily consider as allied to spiritual life. . . .
I call The Theosophical Movement that forward movement
of Humanity towards Idealism, fostered by Theosophists
generation after generation, who work in every type of
activity, mental, moral and social.”
Resolutions were passed asking Dr. Besant to issue a
fresh statement as to the nature of The Society, the freedom
of expression within it and its democratic basis.1
Mr. Jinarajadasa then toured through Hungary, Bulgaria
(where the Convention was held at Sofia), Rumania, Czecho­
slovakia and Germany, where a Convention was held at
Weimar, 18-19 August. To this meeting Charles Blech went
especially to fraternise with the German members. Denmark,
Norway, the Swedish Convention, and Finland came next.
Mr. Jinarajadasa went on to the Irish Section, and then pre­
sided at the Welsh Convention. He visited France, Switzer­
land, Italy (where he interviewed Signor Mussolini), and
Egypt on his way back to India, arriving there in December.
His experiences of the still chaotic state of Europe convinced
him of the necessity of “ our doctrine of Universal Brother­
hood.” He felt, too, that International Conferences were
I 1Those interested in a statement of some of The Society's problems
are referred to “ A Letter from M. Erik Cronvall, General Secretary,
Sweden, and Dr. Besant’s reply. Supplement, T h e T h eo so p h ist, September,
1923. A statement on “ Freedom of Thought ” has since appeared regu­
larly in T h e T h co so p h isl, with the sanction of the General Council.
460 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
of great value, such “ international co-operation makes us
realise better the nature of the ideals which we are trying
to live.”
The English Section inaugurated a Brotherhood Cam­
paign, and most Sections followed suit. An Indian member
asked Dr. Besant to write a theme for it for daily repetition.
She composed the following :
O Hidden Life, vibrant in every atom ;
• O Hidden Light, shining in every creature ;
O Hidden Love, embracing all in Oneness ;
May each who feels himself as one with Thee, -
Know he is therefore One with every other.
Describing this meditation, she said : “ It sends forth
successive waves of colour, pulsing outwards from the
speaker, if rhythmically intoned or chanted, whether by the
outer or .the inner voice, and if some thousands would send
these out over successive areas, we might create a very
powerful effect on the mental atmosphere.” 1
At the International Convention, held in Benares,.
Dr. Besant spoke on Religion and Religions ; Mr. Jinara-
jadasa on Science as the Basis of Knowledge and Conduct ;
Mr. Arundale on Psychology ; and Dr. Cousins on Beauty and
its expression in Art. Dr. Besant said in her Presidential
Address : “ The T. S. is regarded by the Elder Brotherhood
as a nursery-garden for the tender shoots of Brotherhood,
which are sprouting up in the outer world, and therefore this
recognition of Brotherhood is the only condition of admission
to its ranks, and the breaking of that law of Brotherhood
and the causing of dissensions which injure The Society are
regarded as rendering the greatest disservice to the cause.”
Under the inspiration of Mr. Jinarajadasa, a T. S. Muslim
League was formed for “ the study of the relation which the
teachings of Islam bear to the other great religions and to
Theosophy.” There is a large group of Muslim members
in Java.
1T h e T h eo so p h isl, June, 1923, p. 243.
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 461
The Young Theosophist movement which was so de­
finite a feature of this year was, in August, taken under the
'direction of Mr. Arundale, who had been recalled from
Indore by Dr. Besant, to assist her in her political work.
The Theosophical Youth Movement in India formed into the
Federation of Young Theosophists.
Mr. and Mrs. Wood made a long tour in S. America,
visiting the majority of the Lodges in that vast continent,
where travel was still full of adventure, even of hardships.
They returned to the United States to tour, then left for
Australia in October. Mr. Wood wrote several books, and
that on Concentration, has proved a “ best seller.”
The Polish Lodges were granted a charter, with Mile
Wanda Dynowska as the first General Secretary. France
had encouraged the formation of Lodges in Rumania, Greece
and Luxembourg ; England had done the same in Livonia,
Esthonia and Turkey. In New Zealand the National Society
completed its handsome new Headquarters.
The Theosophical Order of Service was well led by its
remarkable International Secretary, Arthur Burgess, who,
despite severe physical disablement, was making the Order
world-famous.1
1924
In the Adyar Bulletin, Dr. Besant related the multifarious
activities which claimed her attention, and kept her busy
adjusting their growth, especially those in the educational
and political fields."
As England was now, to some extent, affected by the
disturbances in America and Australia, seven Lodges,
1The Blavatsky Association (London) was founded, 1923, by
Wm. Kingsland and Mrs. Cleather, both of whom had been pupils of
H. P. B. It was intended for those who wished to study and apply to
their lives the teachings of H.P.B.
2 February, 1924.
462 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
under the Rules of the English Section, called a special Con­
vention, 6 April. It was presided over by Mr. E. L. Gardner,
General Secretary. Some of the motions put forward
dealt with Sectional affairs, others with wider questions, such
as : 1. Reaffirming the democratic basis of The Society; which,
Dr. Besant commented, was fixed when the Society was
incorporated in 1905, therefore the motion was superfluous.
2. Registered regret for the state of The Society at large, and
attributed this to the administration and to other factors. But
a survey of The Society’s position showed that it was actu­
ally very flourishing and nearing one of its peak periods.
3. Requested steps to be taken to dissociate The Society
from any sect or organisation. 4. Requested that a rule be
framed whereby no office in The Society may be held by a
member rendered “ not free ” by pledges to another organi­
sation. This, said Dr. Besant, was contrary to the
Constitution. 5. That the President should establish a
Tribunal to investigate matters affecting the good name of
the Society, and the conduct of certain members.
Dr. Besant pointed out that she had no authority to
establish a Tribunal to investigate the conduct of members,
and such a Tribunal would be an intolerable interference with
their personal liberty, and would render those who took part
in it liable to a prosecution for defamation. Of these motions
2 and 5 were lost by overwhelming majorities and the others
so completely amended that they became the opposite.
Dr. Besant protested against these efforts “ to turn the broad
Theosophical Society into a narrow sect, tied to a book and a
teacher, forbidden to advance to fuller knowledge.”
The President left Bombay, 26 April, and went direct to
England. She gave a series of lectures at Queen’s Hall, be­
ginning 1 June, on : Civilisation’s Deadlocks and the Keys; 1.
Civilisation’s Deadlocks ; 2. The Religious Key ; 3. The
Educational Key ; 4. The Scientific and Artistic Key ; 5.
The Key to a Human Society. These lectures were on
1 T h e A d y a r B u lle t in , A pril, 1924, p. 106.
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 463'
Sundays ; during the week she travelled to Lodges, giving
both Theosophical and political lectures.
From 7 to 12 July Dr. Besant presided over a Conven­
tion in London, which was held under the auspices of the four
British Sections, when 26 National Societies were represented,
15 by their General Secretaries. Some members came from
so far away as India, Australia, South Africa, Burma, Egypt,
Argentine, Chile and Carthage.
Dr. Besant flew to Paris to preside at the French Con­
vention when she gave two talks : 1.1 he Septenary Division
in Nature ; and 2. Karma. These were for members only,
when she could speak more intimately. She presided at the
Scottish Convention, when she said that “ Happiness,
strength and courage pervade reports." Other towns were
visited with the dual purpose of talks on Theosophy and
on India.
" . . . On 23 July, in the Queen’s Hall, London, a
wonderful gathering paid its tribute of love gratitude and
respect to Dr. Annie Besant, who completed the sum of fifty
years in public work. The great audience in which were
fully 500 delegates from many organisations was as inter­
national as the hundreds of letters and telegrams of congrat­
ulation which had poured in upon her. But very largely it
was made up of Indians and British, the two races which it
is her dearest desire shall be firmly knit together in a union
so free as to be indissoluble. There were letters from the
Prime Minister, Lord Haldane and from many others.
Eleven speakers uttered their tributes to this greatest of living
women, this statesman, orator and warrior in the cause of
truth, who has gone through the rigours of persecution, the
storms of abuse and hatred, the glory of sacrifice, and the privi­
lege of ceaseless work, and has emerged, beloved, invigorat­
ed and crowned with eternal youth. Those who took part
in that meeting had the sense that beauty, the finest
beauty of all, that of the soul was abroad in the crowded
hall. . . . The speakers rose to that sense of an invisible, yet
464 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
-almost tangible grandeur, and from the openig speech of
Margaret Bondfield 1to the last words of Srinivasa Shastri,
everyone tried to express in words what could be more easily
felt than said . . . When she rose to reply to those who had
addressed her, the audience rose also, and there were brought
to the platform great masses of roses and two of the soft
wreaths which Indians present to those they honour. . . . Her
voice quivered at first, then grew firm with that note of extra­
ordinary beauty which is as unique a possession as the mind
which inspires it . . . She is not only a great woman but
a great human being. . . . ”3
Dr. Besant presided at the German Convention in Ham­
burg, 6-7 August, and over a great Dutch Convention at
Arnheim, 8 August; and on the 16th left for India. She
made a note in her Diary that the 25th was the anniversary
of her first lecture in 1874.
On 3 September, in Madras, a second Jubilee Demon­
stration was held, with her political friend Sir C. P. Rama-
-swamy Iyer in the chair, when all kinds came, to do her
homage. A third demonstration was held in Bombay,
1 October, with Mr. M. A. Jinnah, M.A., the Muslim leader,
in the chair, where she was royally welcomed. Between
these two celebrations she went to Simla to discuss with the
Viceroy (Lord Lytton), and other authorities the questions
upon which she had sought information in England, espe­
cially on the Commonwealth of India Bill, now shaping.
Dr. Besant worked arduously to secure representative people
to support the Bill, and strove also for a united Congress
behind it, backed by Hindu-Muslim unity.
By special request of the Bombay members, the Inter­
national Theosophical Convention was held in Bombay,
24-26 December. Dr. Besant gave a series of addresses on
“ The Real and the Unreal in a Nations Life.” She said
in her Presidential Address : “ It is difficult to over-estimate
1First woman to be a Cabinet Minister.
2Dr. Marion Phillips, in T h e L a b o u r W om a n , p. 129.
PROBLEMS OF NEUTRALITY 465
the valuable services rendered by our International Lecturers,
who travel far and wide, distributing the bread of life.”
In India, a great impulse had been given to the move­
ment by granting greater facilities to young people to join The
Society ; and Dr. Arundale,1 who travelled in India from
January to early April, had called forth an enthusiastic res­
ponse from young men wherever he went. He and
Mrs. Arundale (Shrimati Rukmini Devi) left in July to carry
out a long tour in Europe, chiefly on Education. Phis tour
covered Holland, Belgium, Germany, France, Poland,Sweden,
Finland and Great Britain. Mr. Jinarajadasa went to
Australia to preside at the Convention in Melbourne. Some
Australian members invited Mrs. Josephine Ransom to go to
Australia, where she was elected General Secretary.
Dr. Bean, who had borne the brunt of several difficult years,
kindly stood aside that the Section might have a change, and
himself a rest. Mr. Jinarajadasa went on to the United States
lecturing from city to city to eager crowds, and did the same
in England and Wales, October and November. His special
subject was “ God’s descent to Man—Man’s ascent to God.”
He returned to India in December, visiting Cairo on the
way.
In Holland several Lodges each adopted a German
Lodge and established “ a warm personal feeling of nearness
and brotherhood between the two countries.” Also, members
all over the world sent financial help, books and magazines
to Germany. England began to specialise in scientific
study groups, an activity that has continued and grown with
the years. In Italy, Lodges did not increase rapidly, but, said
Col. Boggiani, this gave no idea of the progress and con­
stant spreading of Theosophical knowledge among every
class of Italian, and the magazine, II Loto, was popular. Cuba
had carried on with enthusiasm and had chartered six new
Lodges. This Section, the mother of the movement in Central
1The Degree of Doctor of Letters was conferred upon him early
this year by the National University.
30
466 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
and South America, had 43 lodges in all, distributed over
Cuba, Costa Rica, Porto Rico, El Salvador, Nicaragua, the
Dominican Republic, Colombia and Guatemala, under the
direction of Senor de Albear. South Africa (where Capt.
S. Ransom had visited all the Lodges in this year), had engag­
ed in the Brotherhood campaign, but found it difficult to work
out the question, because of still deeply seated, though gradual­
ly lessening race prejudice. The Netherlands Indies Section
sometimes describes itself as the Indonesian Theosophical
Society, for its influence spreads over and includes Lodges
and Centres in Java, Sumatra, Borneo and the Celebes, and
its membership includes Muslims, Christians, and Con-
fucianists. The South American Lodges had received
much stimulus from the visits of Mr. and Mrs. Wood
and Mrs. Gowland. In Brazil, there was fraternisation with
the Spiritualists, who are mainly of the Allan Kardec School
and believe in reincarnation. Roumania held its first Congress
in November, to unite the widely scattered members. The
World Federation of Young Theosophists had begun to take
shape in Australia, Amercia, Europe, and especially in India.
T H E F I F T I E T H Y E A R
“ May Those, Who are the embodiment of Love Immortal, bless
with Their Protection The Society established to do Their will on Earth ;
may They ever guard it by Their Power, inspire it by Their Wisdom, and
energise it by Their Activity.”
— A n n i e B e s a n t
1925
W ith this year The Theosophical Society arrived at its
Golden Jubilee. Fifty years of strenuous work lay behind, a
promising future lay ahead. In the interests of Theosophy
and The Society Mrs. Besant was stressing the “ work of the
Hierarchy,” of the great Elder Brethren. Politically, she was
immersed in the agitation for the support of the Common­
wealth of India Bill, and was urging Indians to work
for the Home Rule that meant their salvation, for it gave
strength, dignity and coherence to national aspirations. In
Calcutta, 16 January, she gave, to a great crowd, three
lectures (the newly-instituted Kamala Lectures) on the Value
of Indian Ideals in Education, Religion, Philosophy and Art.
She gave also the first lecture on the Commonwealth of India
Bill, and the packed audience received it enthusiastically.
She went to Delhi on the 23rd, to try to draw all parties
together, to bring together Hindu and Muslim and to outline
a scheme for Svaraj, for she was General Secretary to the
National Convention. It was an outline of what was con­
sidered necessary for the welfare and “ amity of the British
and Indian Nations,—that India should be placed on an
equality with the self-governing Dominions . . .” It also
stated what India’s Fundamental Rights should be.
468 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
In March, Mr. Jinarajadasa left for Australia, where he
presided over the Convention in Sydney. The audience
overflowed into another hall on the evening when the
Fiftieth Anniversary was commemorated. Bishop Lead-
beater pointed out how The Theosophical Society had
changed the current of public opinion towards occult ques­
tions and spiritual conceptions of life. Mr. Jinarajadasa
went on to lecture in New Zealand during April and
May.
At a Youth Conference held in London, 2 and 3
May, under the chairmanship of Dr. Arundale, it was
decided to interest young Theosophists throughout the
world in the active pursuit of Universal Brotherhood ; to
secure the treatment of animals in accordance with the Law
of Brotherhood ; and to work for Educational and Political
Reforms.
Mrs. Besant arrived in England 21 July, having with her
the Commonwealth of India Bill. She secured support for
its presentation to the Labour Government, then in power.
A reception was arranged for her to meet many ex-Cabinet
Ministers and members of Parliament, to hear her outline the
principles of the Bill, and explain the larger issues which
underlay the whole problem between India and Britain. She
presided over the Annual Convention of the German Section,
held in Hamburg 1-9 August.
At the Star Camp, Ommen, 11 August, Dr. Besant
said that owing to the menace of war, the coming of a
great Teacher was to be hastened. She declared that by
the command of the Head of the Occult Hierarchy, she
announced that several well-known members of The
Society had been admitted into the higher grades of
Initiation. It was an entirely new departure to make such
announcements, and would call forth ridicule. But there was
a purpose in so doing. She referred to three of the activities
in which many members had been engaged for some years :
Education ; the Liberal Catholic Church ; Co-Freemasonry.
THE FIFTIETH YEAR 469
She was, she said, further commanded by “ the King”
and the “ Lord Maitreya and His great Brothers ” to
deliver a message : That as the Great One was about to use
the vehicle prepared for Him, He had chosen twelve people
to assist Him, He Himself being their Chief. Of these she
was at liberty to mention only seven, apart from Mr. Krishna-
murti, whose role was that of offering his prepared vehicle
for the use of the Great One. The others were, Dr. Besant
herself, Bishop Leadbeater, Mr. Jinarajadasa, Dr. Arundale,
Oscar Kollerstrom, Shrimati Rukmini, Bishop J. I. Wedg­
wood.' Naturally, much interest was aroused by these
statements, also much opposition to them and disbelief in
authenticity.
For years Dr. Besant had been greatly concerned with
the social and political conditions of the world, and she was
convinced that Theosophy showed the way to their solution.
In September and October she gave a series of addresses at
Queen’s Hall on “ World Problems of Today.” She survey­
ed the Problems of “ Force, Colour, Nationality, Education,
Capital and Labour, and Government.”
On 4 December a party of 73 members from Australia
and New Zealand arrived in Adyar, and on the 21st a large
party led by Mr. Gardner arrived from Europe. A very large
contingent came from the United States, and smaller numbers
from many other countries.
This International Convention, celebrating the Fiftieth
Year or Jubilee of The Society was the largest ever held. At
least 500 overseas delegates and nearly 2,500 Indian members
were present. Forty countries were represented, in 35 of
which there were National Societies. Many temporary
structures had to be raised to accommodate visitors, both for
residence and for meals. The great Hall was much used for
smaller meetings, while the banyan tree was “ our Cathedral
for the public lectures.” Loud speakers were used for the
first time in India. Dr. Besant and Mr. Jinarajadasa spoke
1 T h e H e r a l d o f th e S ta r, Septem ber, 1925.
470 A SH O RT H ISTO RY OF T H E THEO SO PHIC A L SOC IETY
respectively on “ The Basic Truths of the World Religions”
and “ The Fellowship of Religion ” ; Mr. Krishnamurti and
Dr. Arundale on The World University ; Bishop Leadbeater
and Bishop Wedgwood on the Revival of the Mysteries.
Dr. Besant concluded the speeches, speaking on “ The
Activities of the Coming Half-Century.”
Three activities were announced in which it was hoped
members would engage—1. The World Religion ; 2. The
World University ; 3. The World Government, by the restora­
tion of the Mysteries ; i.e., “ by the recognition of their place
as the World Government, as they were recognised in ancient
days, a place they have ever continued to occupy, although
even the very fact of their existence has long faded out of the
minds of men.” 1
With regard to the first, the General Council passed a
statement on “ The Basic Truths of Religion ” : There being
but the World Religion, the Divine Wisdom or Theosophy,
then all special religions are integral parts of that Religion.
Certain basic Truths are found in the World Religion, and
religions specialise in one or other of these Truths—to teach
and proclaim them The Theosophical Society was founded
and exists. Members are free to admit any or none of these
Truths, since all belong to the Universal Brotherhood of
Humanity.'
Some days even before Convention began, all met in the \
great Hall and repeated brief prayers selected from the great
Faiths of the world, and ended with the repetition of the
President’s words : “ O Hidden Life, vibrant in every
atom ” etc."
On 28 December, when Mr. Krishnamurti was speaking
under the banyan tree, he was declaring that the Great
Teacher comes to those who long for Him, who suffer and
are unhappy. Then suddenly he cried : “ I come to those
who want sympathy, who want happiness, who are longing
1T h e T h eo so p h ist, February, 1926, pp. 551-2.
2 Ibid., March, 1926, p. 754. 3See ante p. 460.
T H E F IF T IE T H YEA R 471
to be released, who are longing to find happiness in all
things. I come to reform, not to tear down ; not to destroy,
but to build.”
A special feature of the Convention was “ A Message
to the Members of the The Theosophical Society from an
Elder Brother.” The past was reviewed and thanks
rendered to the great leaders of The Society, and the future
forecast in terms of a World Brotherhood, to which all should
subscribe by making Theosophy a significant and living force
in each person’s life.
In her survey of the year, the President referred to
the splendid services rendered by lecturers, chief among
them Mr. Jinarajadasa, Dr. Arundale and Mr. Wood. In
most countries The Society had moved steadily forward.
Members in Madrid established a central office to draw to­
gether Spanish-speaking Theosophists in both hemispheres.
The Russian Lodges had organised themselves into a Section
outside Russia. Charters had been granted to Puerto Rico,
Roumania, Yugoslavia, and Uruguay. In the adverse balance
was the defection of the General Secretary of Czechoslovakia,
who carried with him a large proportion of the members, for
the reason that they wished to sever all connection with
Adyar on account of the pronouncements as to the “ Coming
of the Lord.” With the President’s consent, the charter was
taken over by a minority, who saw “ no reason to_separate
from the Mother Society.” In China, Miss D. Arnold had
applied practical Theosophy through the medium of education.
The Brahmavidyashrama, had attracted students from many
National Societies. Dr. Cousins laid special emphasis on
synthesis—in Religion, Philosophy, Education, Art, Science,
etc. Mr. Krishnamurti inaugurated the Hindu services of the
Bharata Samaja. Mr. Jinarajadasa had started the building of
the Buddhist Shrine, suggested in 1883 by the Master K. H.
The Parsis,the Jews, the Mahommedans and the Christians all
had plans for their shrines. The Parsi Temple, the Mosque
and the Church have been completed, only the Synagogue
472 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
awaits construction. Founders’ Avenue was planted with
mahogany trees.
The Young Theosophist Lodges in India were recognised
as part of the Indian National Society ; they had previously
been attached direct to Headquarters at Adyar. The Interna­
tional Fellowship of Arts and Crafts, under Mr. Jinarafadasa’s
direction, had given its special contribution to the Movement.
Miss Mary K. Neff came to work at the Archives, to put
them in order. Her researches have been embodied in
several useful books and articles. Bishop Leadbeater
issued The Masters and the Path, which has had great
influence ; it was based on teachings given by the Master
K. H. to a group of pupils about 1897.
N E W A S P E C T S OE B E O T H E E H O O D
“The Unity of Theosophists is in their attitude totheir ideals, not
in their methods of reaching them."
— A n n i e B e s a n t
“To a degree not possible tohave foreseen Theosophical ideas have
gained currency throughout the world. The thought-seeds which we have
scattered broadcast have taken root in many a country, in thousands of
sympathetic minds . . . ”
—H. S. O l c o t t
1926
M rs. Besant went to Bombay to lecture on “ The Coming
of a World Teacher,” and on “ A World Religion.”
This title she presently changed to “ Fellowship of Faiths,”
as she found the former led to the idea that a totally new
religion was to be founded. In every place she spoke on the
Commonwealth of India Bill, and proposed a line of action
should the Bill be rejected.
At Juhu she laid the foundation-stone of the Masonic
Hall, built amid the colony of Theosophists who have made
Juhu so charming a community.1 In Hyderabad, 11February,
she spoke publicly on “ A World Religion,” and to students
on ‘‘ The Coming of a World Teacher.” In Karachi, 13-15th
she was given a municipal reception and address, and spoke
to an audience of about 3,000 on the Bill. At Multan, 16th,
she was received with extraordinary enthusiasm at the station
and taken in procession through the bazaar. She laid the
Lodge foundation-stone, and held meetings almost every
1Juhu is about 15 miles north of Bombay, and owes its existence
largely to the exertions of Mavji Govindji Seth, a devoted Bombay Theo-
sophist.
474 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
moment of the day. A busy day in Lahore, and then Delhi,
Benares, Lucknow, Allahabad, Calcutta and Rajahmundry,
etc. On 8 May, Dr. Besant left for Europe. She presided
over the Scottish Convention, held for the first time in Glas­
gow, 5-6 June. As a signal mark of appreciation, she was
entertained at luncheon by the Lord Provost, Magistrates and
Council of the City. The Scottish Section, like others, was
beginning to suffer from resignations owing “ to recent
developments in The Theosophical Society.” '
During the same month Dr. Besant gave a series of
lectures at Queen’s Hall on “ The Coming of a World Tea­
cher as seen by Ancient and Modern Psychology.” Several
London newspapers remarked on the “ritual” now observed
on her entry to lecture. The great audience rose as she en­
tered, dressed in sweeping white robes, and waited till she
took her place at the rostrum, before seating itself to listen
to her.
Dr. Besant flew to Holland to preside over the Section
Convention, and in her addresses met the objections which
some were beginning to feel with regard to the general
course of The Theosophical Society, especially in relation to
the allied movements, and the “ World Religion in particu­
lar.” J She visited Dublin, Belfast and Manchester.
Dr. Besant left early in August for a long tour in America,
her first for many years. On arrival in New York a large num­
ber of reporters met and eagerly questioned her and Mr. Krish-
namurti, who was travelling with her. The Press, mis­
understanding her statements, made the error of announcing
that Dr. Besant regarded Mr. Krishnamurti as “ the new
Messiah ” ; whereas she had carefully explained that she
thought he would be the “ vehicle” whom “ the World
Teacher” might use when He wished again to speak to the
world, and he had been definitely trained for that possibi­
lity. It was untrue to state that he had been “ proclaimed,
1General Report, 1926, p. 107.
2Ibid., 1926, p. 62.
NEW ASPECTS OF BROTHERHOOD 475
elected or accepted by The Society, of which he was a
member.” 1
At the station at Chicago, 29 August, a densely packed
crowd greeted them, also in the Hall in which a reception
was held. On 29 August seven special trains took the great
throng to Wheaton for the laying of the foundation-stone
of the new Headquarters, a scheme brought to pass by
Mr. Rogers. The Fortieth Annual Convention of the
American Section was held in Chicago, beginning 30 August
with the exceptionally large attendance of some 2,200 mem­
bers. The President took the opportunity, when speaking
on two Resolutions which were presented, to affirm that she
had steadily followed the rulings of Col. Olcott: that no one
is bound to adopt one opinion as the opinion of The Society ;
to keep the platform of The Society so broad that anyone
could come into it who believes in brotherhood ; she ruled
out of order any Resolution which expressed belief in any­
thing, though any individual member of The Society can work
as hard as he chooses in any line of action that appears to him
to be good.
In December, Dr. Besant settled for some months in
the Ojai Valley, and attended only to matters connected
with the purchase and development of the Happy Valley,
which she was preparing to be the centre of a great Com­
munity, some hundreds of years hence.
1T h e T h eo so p h ist, September, 1926, pp. 638-9. When requested for
information on sensational announcements in various papers that she had
proclaimed Krishnamurti as the Messiah, Dr. Besant said :
“ Similar statements were made in London papers and when 1said
nothingthe imaginative authors added that I had postponed theannounce­
ment . . . My reason for acceptingguardianship of the boys was that Iwas
told that the elder had been selected to give his body as a vehicle for the
World Teacher on His approaching coming, if the lad proved worthy of
the privilege when he reached manhood . . .
Last summer, in Holland, 1 mentioned to a large audience (in a
Camp . . . to which only those are admitted who believe in the Coming
of the World Teacher) that J. Krishnamurti was the chosen vehicle . . .
1 suppose this was the basis of the inaccurate statements made sub­
sequently in the London papers. 1 have never had any idea of
‘‘proclaiming him as Messiah.” (From Private Papers). See also T h e
T h eo so p h ist, Nov. 1925, p. 143.
476 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
When Bishop Leadbeater left Adyar, 28 January,
Dr. and Mrs. Arundale returned with him. During the
voyage Dr. Aundale was asked if he was willing to under­
take the General Secretaryship in Australia, and set in
motion some arduous pioneering work which would have far-
reaching effects in the future. At the Convention in April his
election was carried with acclamation. He at once planned
how to arouse a greater sense of patriotism in Australia.
He and Mrs. Arundale resided at The Manor, to help Bishop
Leadbeater in developing this Occult Centre which is to aid
the country in playing its part in the future development of
the sixth Root Race.
Dr. Arundale took a keen interest in national move­
ments and declared that all he did was as a Theosophist,
whose will was to serve the best interests of the country ; and
he set going many fruitful activities. He drew in many of
the young members to assist him, and secured the services
of Mr. J. L. Davidge, journalist and reporter, who, in 1934,
gave his whole time to editorial work at Adyar, particularly
as Assistant Editor of The Theosophist. The first Theosophic-
al Broadcasting Station was erected within The Manor
grounds at Clifton Gardens. It was one of the most power­
ful stations in Australia. The idea of having such a station
to broadcast Theosophy had already been suggested by
some members, but the enthusiastic promotion of the idea by
Dr. Arundale made it a reality. The station was designated
2GB—2 meaning second class, and GB the initials of Giordano
Bruno. It was formally opened on 23 August by the Minister
for Education. Mrs. Ransom, who had for two years
been re-building the Section, left in May for S. Africa, to join
Capt. Ransom who had gone there earlier in the year ta
lecture and to assist the Section generally.
Throughout the year Bishop Leadbeater’s attention was
given to the Liberal Catholic Church, to The Theosophical
Society and to Co-Masonry. On 24 October he arrived
in Brisbane, where he had many meetings ; then he went to
NEW ASPECTS OF BROTHERHOOD 477
Sourbaya, Java, 4 November. He visited Malang, Surya-
karta, Samarang, Bandoeng, Weltvreaen, Buitenzorg, and
in each place gave himself up to many engagements,
despite his advancing years. On the way to India he visited
Penang, Rangoon and Pegu, with meetings in each port.
He held a question meeting on Theosophy in the Maha-
bodhi Hall in Calcutta, where relics of the Buddha are
enshrined. He and Dr. and Mrs. Arundale all arrived about
the same time in Benares. Dr. Besant had cabled them to
assist there with the Convention, as she had decided to remain
in California. The Convention lectures were on “ The
Theosophist’s Attitude” : 1. To Death and the Unseen,
by Bishop Leadbeater ; 2. To Nationalism and International­
ism, by Dr. Arundale ; 3. To Science and its Message, by
Mr. Yadunandan Prasad; 4. To Art and the Arts, by
Mr. Jinarajadasa.
In her Presidential Address, which she wrote, Dr. Besant
said that as she glanced back over her three periods
of Presidentship, she saw how the Society had grown
from eleven to forty-two Sections. The three great Objects
of The Society had not only found their expression within
its ranks, but also in three exterior aspects : The Fellow­
ship of Faiths ; the World University ; and the Revival of
the Mysteries. The first was growing most rapidly, as an
organisation bearing that name was formed in the United
States, and has gone on successfully. The Brahmavidya-
shrama, had carried out the second at Adyar, as had also an
Eduational group in Java, and another in London under Prof.
Marcault. The Mysteries had an “ outer basis in Masonry.”
England was specialising in “ students” week ends.
The French Section was assisting Lodges to form in Greece.
In Cuba a new young group came into office, taking over
the eighteen years work of the veteran Don Rafael de
Albear. The new group started to form a Federation of
Spanish-speaking Sections to link them closely together
in the common work. Everywhere The Society was
478 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
progressing ; each Section with its own emphasis. Though
there had been many resignations, yet 6,127 new diplomas
had been issued, and there was a nett increase in membership
of 1,915. A new organisation was an Association of
Hebrew Theosophists, which for a time issued a quarterly
called The Jewish Thcosophist.
Mr. Jinarâjadâsa spent much of this year touring in India,
and was in Burma in September and October. He had pre­
pared for the Jubilee celebration of 1925 a most valuable book
called The Golden Book o f The Theosophical Society. Owing to
delays this was not ready until May 1926. It gave a graphic
account of The Society’s history, and was embellished with
over 334 illustrations.
Several other useful books had been issued during the
year, including The Chakras, Glimpses o f Masonic History, The
Hidden Life in Freemasonry, by Bishop Leadbeater, and
Nirvana, by Dr. Arundale.
1927
Dr. Besant remained in Ojai until 20 April. On her
way to England she visited a few cities, and arrived in London
9 May. In announcing the establishment of the Happy
Valley community, Ojai, Dr. Besant said she found H. P. B.’s
prediction of a new Sixth Race to be formed in the United
States of America being fulfilled. She believed the setting of
that Race to be in the Ojai Valley, where already a band of
workers had gathered. The Centre thus forming was “ to
develop into the New Civilisation for the Americas . .
She appealed for funds and said she had accepted the task
of founding this Centre because she knew that behind it were
the Masters Whom she had “ served for 38 years.” .
She sketched out what the Community was to undertake,
and the ideals it should follow. It was a “ cradle .
to grow into a miniature model of the new civilisation.”
Land was bought, some 465 acres, in the beautiful Happy
NEW ASPECTS OF BROTHERHOOD 479
Valley, about 80 miles north of Los Angeles. Dr. Besant
formed a strong organising Committee, and said that as soon
as possible settlers would be permitted. Response was
generous. Events did not turn out as Dr. Besant hoped,
the Community did not shape into anything definite, especial­
ly as she was later unable to give it her personal attention.
The plan is in abeyance, awaiting a future revivification ;
meanwhile the land is let out to cultivators.'
Dr. Besant presided over the English Section Convention,
5-7 June, where she made an urgent appeal for Peace. She
said : “ The task upon us today is to assume definitely that
leadership which is our duty, however weak may be our
power, however small our influence in the world.” She re­
minded her hearers how the Masters of Wisdom wait and
work, century after century, in tireless patience, for Humanity,
. and in the world about us we should strive to serve
Them by giving the world the lead to solve its problems with
peace. “ If every member of The Theosophical Society
would add his thought, his will to peace, if every one of us
would add our little strength, we should make such a current
in favour of peace that all militarism would be looked on
amongst us a savagery, and all cruelty as a crime against
the universal brotherhood of all that lives.”2 She followed
up this idea in November, when she asked all members to
create “ a chain of thoughts of World Peace encircling the
globe,” during the two minutes of Silence on 11 November.
This Convention passed an important Resolution urging
upon the European Federation of Theosophical Societies the
desirability of holding a Theosophical Congress annually or
biennially in a different European country, to bring about a
greater brotherliness. This has been done_annually, with bene­
fit to each country where the Congress is held. Dr. Besant
gave four public lectures during June, in Queen’s Hall, on
“ The New Civilisation.” She repeated this subject in four
1See T h e T h eo so p h ist, April, 1927, pp. 106-11.
2N ew s a n d N otes, Sept. 1927, pp. 3-5.
480 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
English towns and also at Glasgow and Edinburgh, where
the Scottish Convention met. At almost every place she
visited during the next few months she outlined the ideals
of the new Civilisation, based on Brotherhood, on sharing
and not on selfish holding. In July, the first meeting of
the “ external ” Fellowship of Faiths was held in the City
Temple, London, at a brilliant meeting, when seven religions
were represented on one platform, among them Dr. Besant
speaking on behalf of India.
Dr. Besant left for Amsterdam in July to preside over
the Section Convention, and 18 August, attended the German
Convention in Hamburg where during three days she
spoke six times, and the one public lecture was attended by a
deeply interested audience. Her title was “ The New Race
and Germany’s Place in the World.” She appealed for a
deeper understanding of the “ white ” races, and a greater
consideration by them for the “ coloured ” peoples of the
earth. At Copenhagen, 23 August, she spoke to about 1,900
people on “ The World Teacher and the New Civilisation.”
On the way to Oslo storms drove the aeroplane back to
Copenhagen. By taking a boat she managed to reach
Oslo, where she went at once to the University Hall and
gave a lecture on “ The Fellowship of Faiths.”
In Stockholm, at the Swedish Section Convention, the
President stressed the Coming of the World Teacher as
being of paramount importance to civilisation. At Helsingfors,
or Helsinki, (Finland) thousands of people eagerly welcomed
her, and the papers gave her work and message much space.
In Warsaw, 30 August, she met the opinion that was to be so
often expressed—that as the message of Krishnamurti was all-
sufficing, therefore it was better to cut loose from The
Theosophical Society and all other organisations. Some
were alarmed at this ; but Dr. Besant assured them that all
conscientious people were following the right path—for them.
The President was in Prague for six hours, 1 September,
which were filled with meetings, then she went on to Vienna,
NEW ASPECTS OF BROTHERHOOD 481
2 September, to Budapest, and by train back to Vienna where
three meetings were held before she departed for Geneva.
Then Paris and England. Capt. Wardall (accompanying
Dr. Besant), who was Head of the Theosophical Order of
Service, took the opportunity afforded by this tour to organise
the work of the Order in each country they visited.
From 24-26 September Dr. Besant presided over the
Welsh Annual Convention. On 1 October her 80th
birthday was celebrated at the Friends House, London,
where members filled the Hall to pay her homage. She
reminded her hearers that “ there is only One Worker, one
supreme Server—the One Life, in its highest manifestation,
the One who dwells in our hearts and sends out His Light
into the world.” 1 On 2 October she gave another series of
public lectures in the Queen’s Hall on “ The Future of
Europe—Peace or War ? ”
Soon after her arrival in Adyar, 31 November, the
President visited Lodges in S. India. She plunged
again into her political work and took up the editing of
New India and The Commonweal. The Convention at Adyar
brought together 2,400 members, and for three weeks made a
great centre of Theosophical life. The special Lectures were
on The New Civilisation : 1. The Work of the Manu, by
Dr. Besant ; 2. The Place of Occultism, by Bishop Lead-
beater ; 3. The Work for the Plan, by Dr. Arundale ;
4. The Place of Women, by Shrimati Rukmini Devi ;
5. The Place of Intuition, by Mr. Jinarajadasa.
Bishop Leadbeater had returned to Australia from India
at the end of January. He visited the Lodges en route to
Sydney. During the year he resided more or less quietly at
The Manor, for he was now suffering from diabetes. How­
ever, he engaged in most of his usual activities until Novem­
ber, when he went to Adyar to take part in the Convention.
The Vice-President, Mr. Jinarajadasa, presided over
the Convention in Paris, 22-28 April, where he spoke
1T h e T h e o s o p h ica l R ev ie w , December, 1927, p. 638.
31
482 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
on “ The Larger Vision of Theosophy.” His view was
that “ The Theosophist who seeks his Atmâ must seek it
not only within himself, but also without . . . Brother to
all men, brother to all the sciences, brother to all the arts—
this ideal is the only Brotherhood worthy of a philosopher
of the Ancient Wisdom.” 1 Throughout May, Mr. Jinarâja-
dâsa toured in England, and included a series of three
lectures in Queen’s Hall on The Divine Vision : 1. The
Vision of Man ; 2. The Vision of Nature ; 3. The Vision
of Gods and of God. He summed up his views simply
in a few words : “ This outer universe of Maya or
illusion is still the mirror where we see the face of our
Monad.” " To the Theosophical World University he gave
a course on “ Ancient Sanskrit Literature." The World
University was developing under Prof. Marcault, who
arranged Students’ Courses, and was assisted by the ablest
lecturers in England. Mr. Jinarâjadâsa visited a number of
Lodges, including several in Wales, and in early June was in
Edinburgh and Glasgow. In almost every place he spoke
on “ The Re-making of God and Man.” He went from
Holland to Iceland, then so rarely visited. He then visited
Portugal and Spain, and returned with Dr. Besant to India
to take part in the International Convention.
Dr. Arundale was re-elected General Secretary in
Australia, but he and Shrimati Rukmini Devi left soon after­
wards for England, via India, to attend the Convention in
June. They then went to the United States for the Conven­
tion in August, where Dr. Arundale dedicated the fine new
Headquarters, and they made a considerable tour throughout
the country. They returned to Adyar in time for the Con­
vention.
England carried out a Reincarnation Campaign. Spain
developed the Round Table, and emphasised Theosophical
principles in education. Were this not a Short History, more
1T h e A d y a r B u lle tin , Oct. 1927, p. 141.
- T h e T h e o s o p h ica l R e v ie w , July, p. 341.
NEW ASPECTS OF BROTHERHOOD 483
information would be given of the work done by the many
able lecturers now devoting their time to the propagation of
Theosophical Ideals ; also of those whose gifts of exposition
had led them into the wider international service and were
welcome everywhere—America, Australia, Europe, India,
S. America, S. Africa, the British Isles and so on. But mention
must be made of Mr. E. L. Gardner’s tour in America,
February to May, where his lectures on “ The Coming
of the Fairies ” aroused great interest, especially in the
Press.1 Mr. Geoffrey Hodson issued two books, The Coming
o f the Angels and The Brotherhood o f Angels and o f Men,
embodying his own special line of research.
1928
During January and February Dr. Besant devoted her­
self to political work. Her great desire was to draw all
parties together to support a great Reconstruction Bill. To this
end she attended the All-Parties Conference in Delhi, which
met daily. By 16 March a Bill was prepared, and she began
at once to expound it to the country.
On 2 June she went to put her plans forward in England.
She met members of Parliament at the House of Commons
and explained to them and to those high in authority the posi­
tion in India and the necessity for meeting India’s demands.
She gave her usual series of lectures at Queen’s Hall, June
and July, putting the inner point of view as regards world-
affairs, a view which covered the future, when the external
crust of things had broken. Her first lecture dealt with The
Crumbling of the Empire of Force ; followed by 2. Founda­
tions of the Federation of Free People ; 3. Reconciliation
of Independence and Unity ; 4. A Vision of the Future.
In July, Dr. Besant was elected for the fourth time as
President by an overwhelming majority. During this month
1He had, with Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, carried out a special investi­
gation, in England, along these lines.
484 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
she visited Birmingham, Sheffield and Manchester, and in
each place gave the same lecture on “ The Empire of Force,
or Federation." Illness prevented her from presiding over
the European Federation Congress in Brussels, 27 July—
1 August, when every country in Europe was represented.
Bishop Wedgwood took over the chairmanship of the Con­
gress, and spoke on “ Methods of Spiritual Training” ; and
Prof. Marcault gave a brilliant talk on “ The Science of
Peace.” This Congress was held in the magnificent halls of
the Palace of Fine Arts, where hang some noble paintings
by M. Jean Delville.
For a while entries in Dr. Besant’s Diary ceased, for she
was so ill that it seemed as if she would pass away. But,
like H.P.B., she made the choice of staying a little longer, to
help forward the plans entrusted to her by the Masters.
When her health improved, she returned to India, arriving in
Bombay 24 August. Despite the fact that she was not yet
wholly recovered, she plunged into political activities. In
Lucknow she assisted in the framing of a new Constitution
and began at once to popularise it, touring the country in the
months of October, November and December.
On 21 October Dr. Besant suspended the operations of
the Esoteric School of Theosophy, so that, under the inspira­
tion of Mr. Krishnamurti, each might find himself free to seek
the “ direct Path” to spiritual Liberation. In December 1929
the School was partially reopened, as it was found that by
suspending its active functioning the whole Society suffered
the loss of spirit and vitality. In 1930 the spiritual discipline
of the School was more or less resumed, and with special
stress laid on the law of Ahimsa (harmlessness). In Febru­
ary 1931 Dr. Besant sent out a special “ Call ” to members of
the E.S. to come to Adyar to help in building up “ the Flam­
ing Centre” asked for by the Masters. In November 1932
the School was practically restored to its former working,
with some changes. On behalf of Dr. Besant, Mr. Jinaraja-
dasa actively took part in its reorganisation.
NEW ASPECTS OF BROTHERHOOD 485
Owing to her political engagements with the National
Congress, meeting in Delhi, Dr. Besant was unable to attend
the International Convention held at Benares. She placed the
sole management of everything at Convention in the hands
of Krishnamurti. She wrote : “ There will be no ceremonials
during Convention days, for the life he pours out so richly
will, when the hour comes, create its own forms, in which his
exquisite Ideals will clothe themselves ; but that hour is not
yet.” The subject for the Convention was : “ The Changing
Outlook of the Theosophical Movement.” The speakers
were Mr. Yadunandan Prasad, Shrimati Rukmini Devi,
Prof. E. A. Woodhouse, Mr. Sanjiva Rao. A Discussion
took place on “ The Future of The Theosophical Society,”
at which the principal speakers were—Dr. Arundale, and
Prof. Woodhouse. Krishnamurti was to have spoken, but
fell ill of a fever.
At this Convention it became clear that there was a sharp
divergence of opinion between those who held there should be
no ceremonial at all, and those who held ceremonial to be a
way ofspiritual expression. Dr. Arundale was elected General
Secretary at the Indian Convention, held simultaneously, and
began at once to plan a series of tours throughout the country.
But in February Dr. Besant asked him to reside in Adyar
and help her. He did so, and remained there for the rest of
the year except that in May he presided over the Maratha
Theosophical Federation at Nasik. As Dr. Besant re­
established New India in April she needed Dr. Arundale’s
assistance, and in September appointed him her personal
assistant. In October, Dr. Arundale decided that it was not
possible for him to continue to be General Secretary for
India, owing to pressure of other work.
In April Dr. Besant had announced that there is a great
Spiritual Being who represents the feminine side of Divinity,
the Ideal Womanhood, the “ World Mother.” In a speech
given at Adyar, she pointed to the marked change in the
world with regard to the position of women, who are coming
486 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
to the front. In the coming civilisation the position of women
would be fully recognised. In connection with the forward
stride of evolution, the “ World Mother ” would be recognised
publicly as She had ever been active spiritually. The leader
of the movement would be Shrimati Rukmini Devi. This
movement flared up for a while, then sank to the steady
flame which it is today. It is under the direction of Shrimati
Rukmini, and she goes about the preparation for a more
active future, particularly in India, where she is already well
known as a leader and a resuscitator of all that is best in
India’s traditional art and culture, giving them new interpre­
tations ; and from time to time she speaks of the “ World
Mother,” to whom she frankly says her life is dedicated.
In January, Bishop Leadbeater left for Australia with
Mr. Jinarajadasa, speaking to the members in the large towns
on the way, and then settling in Sydney. Here he pursued
his many activities as usual, and added to them by resuscitat­
ing and editing The Australian Theosophisl.
Mr. Jinarajadasa paid longer visits to the Lodges en
route to Sydney. In April he went to Brisbane and thence
to America. By 4 July he was in Chicago where he pre­
sided over a large Convention, and took the main part for
ten days at the American Headquarters, where a Summer
School was held. The President instructed him to go to
Central and South America. As Mr. Jinarajadasa did not
wish to continue in office as Vice-President—for he thought
it good to change—he asked Dr. Besant not to re-appoint him.
She appointed Mr. Warrington to the office, which he held
until 1934, in recognition of his long services to The Society
in the United States. The Office only demands special work
when a President passes away, or resigns, etc., while in
office ; then the Vice-President becomes Acting President
and makes arrangements for the election of the new officer.
Mr. Jinarajadasa arrived in Rio de Janeiro 10 October.
He was the first leader in The Theosophical Society to tour in
S. America, and was eagerly and trebly welcomed on account
NEW ASPECTS OF BROTHERHOOD 487
of his ability to speak Portuguese, Spanish and Italian. The
Ministry of Foreign Affairs placed a motor-car at his dis­
posal, and the Section and Lodge officials entertained him
royally. He found Brazil “ the country of Universal Frater­
nity,” entirely free of colour prejudice. . . . ” Brother­
hood is definitely inculcated by the State as the duty of the
citizen.” In his lecture, 22 October, Mr. Jinarâjadâsa re­
vealed that Brazil, and especially Rio de Janeiro, was to have
a glorious spiritual future and a great mission to carry out in
the evolution of the peoples inhabiting the South American
continent, by preparing the ground of the Seventh Race, the
cradle of which would be this enchanting part of the
American Continent.
The subject of Yoga greatly attracts Brazilians, and
Mr. Jinarâjadâsa spoke to an audience of about 1,500 on
“ True and False Yoga.” On 31 October he visited the Pro­
testant Missionary Centre, where the pastors of all existing
churches in Rio were present. The meeting terminated with
a vote for the confraternisation of all the religions of the
world. In town after town Mr. Jinarâjadâsa was received
with great joy. At Santos no foreigner had ever drawn such
vast audiences or aroused such keen interest. In other places
there were audiences of 2,000 and more, and his lectures were
sometimes broadcast. He went on to Paraguay where the
same success attended his efforts, and a Section was formed
under Senor José Marsal. The same was the case in Argen­
tina, at Buenos Aires and La Plata. The newspaper re­
cords show what an immense and stirring effect his visit had
upon these countries. His work was followed up by
Sr. Salvador Sendra, who stimulated the sale of Theosophical
literature in the chief bookstores.
In June, Mr. J. R. Aria, the Recording Secretary, died
suddenly of cholera, after twenty years of devoted and un­
broken service.
In examining the Section Reports, the titles for lectures,
and the activities undertaken by members, it is clear that the
488 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
general tendency was to make Theosophy increasingly practi­
cal, to apply it in every field. A typical instance was in
Cuba, where it was decided that the Cuban Theosophical R e­
view should take its full share in matters which directly tended
to the aggrandisement of the best aspirations and activities
of that country. Greece received its charter. In Geneva
Mrs. Cousins, Mme Kamensky and others were instrumental
in founding, under the Council of the European Federation,
an International Theosophical Centre, to link up the many
movements for “ human uplift.” It did excellent work under
Mme Kamensky’s direction till 1937, when it went into
abeyance. Many European Sections received visits from
well-known lecturers. During the absence of Dr. Cousins on
his long world tour, Mr. Knudsen took his place in the
Brahmavidyashrama. He had long been in touch with Adyar,
having first visited it in 1897.
1929
In The Adyar Bulletin, January, Dr. Besant wrote that
she had asked her Master’s permission to retire, but he said,
No. She therefore pursued her active way in The Society
and in politics—making valuable recommendations, planning
moves, exhorting and persuading, attending political Con­
ferences, and influencing decisions. But as her appeal for
help had failed, she closed down New India in January,
and only the weekly was kept going, at a loss. She
felt that the members of The Society had not supported
strongly enough the task she had undertaken. She wrote :
” The Theosophical Society is once more faced by a Call from
its real Founders, the Chohans Morya and Kuthumi.who ever
work together, the first in the field of Nations, the second in the
field of Education, including, of course, Religion.” Dr. Besant
then recalled that The Phoenix (1883) had failed through the
indifference of the members, and now New India also suf­
fered from lack of support. She had made it “ a weekly
NEW ASPECTS OF BROTHERHOOD 489
for lack of funds, but needed (it) now as a daily through the
last stage of the struggle ” towards Self-Government. It
“ was re-started at the wish of the Regent of India.” 1
Several times during the year she deliberately called upon all
Theosopbists who believed in the Inner Government of the
world, to work for Dominion Status. At another time she
wrote : “ What I say of the Inner Government of the World I
speak from personal knowledge, for I have studied and prac­
tised Raja Yoga steadily during forty years, have obeyed
the instructions given to me by my Guru in my political (as
in all other) actions in India and England . . . ”2 She said
to Theosophists “ that the Freedom of India within the great
Federation of Free Nations linked together by the British
Crown, is a condition essential to the Great Plan which must
ultimately succeed, because it forms part of that Inner
Government of the World, which is seeking to begin the
founding of a Federation which will ultimately include all the
civilised Nations of the world, on a basis of perfect internal
Freedom and complete equality between the component
Nations.” 1 To this end she travelled about, attending Con­
ferences and meeting the leading politicians, keeping before
each and all, in spite of growing opposition and the advocacy
of “ Independence,” the high goal she believed to be best for
Britain and India conjointly. But the strain of such activity
told upon her, for she had not fully recovered her strength
since the preceding year.
In April Dr. Besant left Bombay, and was welcomed in
London, 4 May. Later in the same month she presided over
the European Congress at Budapest, at which Mr. Cochius
was elected General Secretary of the Federation in
place of Miss Dijkgraaf. The Government of Hungary was
friendly to the Congress, on account of Dr. Besant’s protests
against the injustices to Hungary at the Treaty of Trianon.
She presided over the English Convention in June, and gave
1T h e T h eo so p h isl, Jan. 1929, pp. 340-2.
- Ib id ., Nov. 1929, p. 122. 3Ib id ., March, 1929, p. 570.
490 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
a series of four lectures at Queen’s Hall, reverting to a
subject which is always of interest—The Life after Death : 1.
Not all of me shall Die ; 2. The Facts of the Intermediate
World ; 3. The Facts of the Heavenly World ; 4. The
Return to the School of Life.
During July the President visited Dublin, Belfast,
Edinburgh (presiding over the Scottish Convention), and also
Bradford, Leeds, Cardiff and Bristol—speaking either on
India or on The Life after Death.
A memorable event in this year was the successful
Theosophical World Congress, held at Chicago, 25-31
August, when twenty-seven countries were represented, and
1,300 members were present. Miss Dijkgraaf went across
to give her efficient help as Secretary of the International
Congresses. There were splendid attendances for the Presi­
dent’s lectures on “ Theosophy and World Conditions ” and
“ Right Civilisation.” Great speeches were made by several
members. Some important subjects came up for discussion :
1. Suggestions had been made to alter the Objects of The
Society. Dr. Besant offered a Resolution that there should be
only one Object, to promote Brotherhood. After much dis­
cussion it was decided to suggest to the General Council to
take a postal vote on leaving the Objects as they are. This
was done and the large majority voted in favour of no change.
2. A Resolution to rescind the action of The Society in joining
the “ Fellowiship of Faiths ’’ was carried.
Mrs. Jinarájadása presented the following points for
discussion, to clear the position and ideals of The Society r
1. That Freedom of Thought did not really exist in The
Theosophical Society ; 2. That Theosophy was wrapped
up in a creed. Members felt outside the pale who did
not subscribe to the many activities which were announced
as desired by the Great White Lodge ; 3. That the chief
officers of The Society should not be officially associated with
any sects, creeds, denominations or dogmatic cults ; 4. That
any official belonging to some definite persuasion labelled
NEW ASPECTS OF BROTHERHOOD 491
The Society in that place ; whereas the chief work of The
Society was to carry out its Objects.1 Dr. Besant vacated
the chair to speak to Mrs. Jinarajadasa’s letter. She warned
the Congress that they could not pass resolutions limiting
in any way The Society’s choice of officers without infringing
its freedom and neutrality. She agreed that other organisa­
tions should not be confused with The Society by occupying
the same buildings, and recommended this should cease. She
issued a statement that though The Society had helped the
Liberal Catholic Church as a reformed presentation of
Christianity, as it had helped the Bharata Samaj in India,
yet because of the danger of identification she was not
attending any more of its services.'
Other Resolutions were : to promote Peace ; to recruit
Youth ; to use the Theosophical Order of Service more fully ;
and to urge international understanding. Dr. Besant an­
nounced that as a result of her observations in America, she
had resolved to remove the publication of The Theosophist
from India to the United States. She would remain chief
Editor and write in it, but she would have in California the
brilliant aid of Mrs. Hotchener, and Mr. Hotchener would
be Business Manager. She said her “ Watch-Tower ” notes
represented her editorial policy, whether dealing with
Theosophical teachings, or with the ideas of the editor on
the things dealt with . . . She regarded the search for
Truth as the bond of union, not any individual or group
opinion.
At the Convention, in Adyar, Dr. Besant spoke on
“ The Past and Future of The Theosophical Society ” ; Bishop
Leadbeater on “ The Two Paths ” ; Bishop Wedgwood on
“ The Gaining of Spiritual Experience,” and Mr. Jinarajadasa
on “ Theosophy and Latin America.” There were two main
dangers, said Dr. Besant, in the way of The Theosophical
Society, each of which we must avoid—“ The danger of
1See T h e T h eo so p h ist, June, 1929, pp. 285-7.
- I b id ., August, 1929, pp. 400-1.
492 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
orthodoxy, which would be its death by fossilisation ; we
must oppose any tendency—world-wide, racial, national,
locqj, the last in our Lodges—of identifying The Society with
any religious, economical, political or social beliefs.”
Bishop Leadbeater left Sydney in April to take up
residence at Adyar, at Dr. Besant’s request. Dr. and
Mrs. Arundale took charge of The Manor. Bishop Lead­
beater went first to Java for six months, where he was ex­
ceedingly busy almost every day. He arrived in Adyar in
November, and settled there for the rest of his life, except for
occasional visits elsewhere.
Dr. and Mrs. Arundale went to Java, Australia,
to the United States for the Congress, and to Europe.
Mr. Jinarájadása continued his remarkable tour in South
America. He was still in Argentina at the beginning of the
year and visited La Plata. Then he went to Bolivia, Chile, and
Peru in February, March and April. At Lima he addressed
packed audiences of 1,500. The Roman Catholic Archbishop
issued a prohibition in all the papers, excommunicating all
Roman Catholics who attended his lectures, designed to
deceive “ the unwary with what he calls Theosophy.” But
the answer was a crammed theatre, tremendous ovations before
and after each lecture, and thousands cheering him on his
way back to his hotel.
In Costa Rica foundations had been well laid. Thence
Theosophy had spread through Salvador, Nicaragua,
Honduras, Guatemala and Colombia. In 1927 Dr. José
B. Acuña had been appointed Presidential Agent of these
Central American groups. During Mr. Jinarájadása’s visit in
May they consolidated into a Section with Señor Mariano
L. Coronado as first General Secretary. Paraguay and Peru also
developed into National Societies. Mr. Jinarájadása continued
his tour through Nicaragua, Honduras, Salvador and Guate­
mala till the end of June. He then went on to Mexico. The
Roman Church forbade its adherents to attend his lectures,
but they did so in large crowds. By September he had
NEW ASPECTS OF BROTHERHOOD 493
reached Cuba, where the same success attended his work,
and he finished his tour at Puerto Rico. This bare mention
of Mr. Jinarajadasa’s work in these Spanish, and Portuguese
speaking countries can give no idea of the immense value
of the task he accomplished, nor of the influence of his
visit. He attended and spoke at the Chicago Congress, and
later in the year visited both Portugal and Spain before re­
turning to Adyar for Convention.
Throughout the year almost all Theosophical magazines
discussed the views of Mr. Krishnamurti. Much interest was
aroused when he abolished the Order of the Star in the East.
He thought that any organisation for a spiritual purpose only
tended to fetter Truth. He looked upon such an Order as an at­
tempt to organise spirituality, which cannot be organised.
His views caused many to leave The Society on the plea that
organisations were no longer necessary.
Mr. Wood left Australia to take up the post of Record­
ing Secretary at Adyar. In India, the Young Theosophists
amalgamated into an All India Federation with 2,200 mem­
bers. There were other lecturers travelling widely and bring­
ing Theosophy before a much larger public than ever before.
This year marked the Golden Jubilee of the starting of The
Theosophist by the Founders.
1930
With the January number, The Theosophist, hitherto pub­
lished at Headquarters, Adyar, became The Adyar Theo­
sophist, to distinguish it from The Theosophist now published in
Hollywood under the direction of Mrs. Hotchener. The
Adyar Bulletin was merged in The Adyar Theosophist.
In the March Adyar Theosophist1 Dr. Besant wrote an
important article entitled “ To members of The Theosophical
Society.” She recalled how she was in 1909 first given the
charge to work for the Freedom of India. She wished her
1P. 523, e l seq .
494 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
•co-workers to understand this, and reminded members that
H. P. B. had been advised long before that one of the pur­
poses of The Theosophical Society was to raise India among
the nations of the world. She drew attention to the work
which had been entrusted to herself and Bishop Leadbeater
with regard to Krishnamurti, connected with the beginning of
of a new sub-race and Root Race. She reminded all that the
world is under the guidance of three high members of the
Occult Hierarchy—and therefore its progress is really orderly,
for “ Occultism is the most orderly thing in the world,” and
that all in the ranks of The Society should try to co-operate
even in the midst of differences. She mentioned the work
of the Happy Valley in California as a preparation for the
future, at the head of which was the Manu Vaivasvata, with
the assistance of His lieutenant, the coming Mann. She said :
“ 1 am His agent, and I have later to help to build up the
free civilisation of India and the new civilisation of California.”
Along with such racial preparation went the religious teach­
ing of the world, and in this department Krishnamurti was
at work. In the furtherance of that work she had gone
to California with him in 1926. There were difficulties
of type and temperament, but she urged all to work
together.
In March, Dr. Besant announced that as the London
Theosophical Publishing House found it necessary to go into
liquidation, and in order to save the copyrights for The
Society, she had bought them up. (She bequeathed them to
Dr. Arundale). Her son, Digby Besant, consented to become
Manager on her behalf. The new House was to be a Branch
of that at Adyar and bear the same name.1 Dr. Besant
arrived in England, 2 June, with Mr. Jinarajadasa.
A great Congress was held at Geneva, 27 June to 1
July, at which both Dr. Besant and Bishop Leadbeater were
present. The delegates were received by the civic authorities.
Besides overseas delegates, twenty-five European countries
1See N ew s a n d N otes, March, 1930, p. 4.
NEW ASPECTS OF BROTHERHOOD 495
were represented. Interest centred in the two veteran leaders,
now 83 years old. In her opening address Dr. Besant re­
minded her audience that “ The Divine Wisdom is a living
developing thing in the world.” There were many able
speeches and discussions. 1
Dr. G. de Purucker ' arranged for his representative,
Prof. Lars Eek, Sweden, to go to Geneva and seek an inter­
view with Dr. Besant. He said that Dr. de Purucker hoped
Dr. Besant, Bishop Leadbeater and the heads of all our
National Societies would accept his invitation to meet at Point
Loma on 11 August, 1931, the centennial of the birthday of
H. P. Blavatsky.
Dr. Besant heartily welcomed this message of good-will
and co-operation among all the twenty-two Theosophical
Societies throughout the world. She sent a cablegram to
Dr. de Purucker consenting to co-operate in his plan to issue
a Centennial edition of the complete works of Madame
Blavatsky ; and accepted for herself and Bishop Leadbeater
the invitation to be present the following year at Point Loma.
Plans were formulated, in particular that three official re­
presentatives of all known Theosophical Societies be con­
vened to exchange opinions with the view of fraternal
co-operation. It was suggested that Dr. Besant should take the
lead in this (but she had no objection to Dr. Purucker or any
other individual taking the initiative) ; that all Theosophical
Societies be invited to encourage fraternal delegates to be
present and convey greetings to and from their respect­
ive Societies at all meetings, whenever suitable. All these
items were accepted unanimously. However, in the
August Theosophical Forum, Point Loma, Dr. de Purucker
stated his own terms for co-operation among the Theoso­
phical Societies, and his own plans for the proposed
1For excellent roports ofthe Congress see T h e T h eo so p h ist (America)
Aug. and Sep., 1930.
2Successor to Mrs. K. A. Tingley, of the Universal Brotherhood and
Theosophical Society, with Headquarters at Pt. Loma, California.
496 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Centennial celebrations. He objected to the memorandum
drawn up at Geneva, and he made criticisms which
reflected both directly and indirectly upon Dr. Besant and
Bishop Leadbeater. He did not wish—1. His plans to be
discussed in a Council ; 2. That thousands should attend the
Point Loma celebrations, though friendship would be extend­
ed to all ; 3. He desired that it should be left to him to invite
officially the Heads of Societies and representatives ; 4. That
all who attended must come as Theosophists alone, and that
if Bishop Leadbeater came it must be as the duly accredited
delegate of some Section or Lodge.1 After further inter­
changes, the plan was eventually dropped, and Dr. Besant
decided to hold a celebration at Adyar, as she could not agree
to the conditions laid down by Dr. de Purucker, nor pass by
the criticisms of Bishop Leadbeater.
Dr. Besant presided over the English Convention in
London, and when sketching the main lines of The
Society’s work she said she was not in favour of having
sponsors recommending applicants as people whom they
thought would be worthy members. If The Society is
a nucleus of Universal Brotherhood then it “ ought not to reject
any who desire to enter that brotherhood.”' Bishop Leadbeater
was also present at this Convention and was warmly greeted.
Both Dr. Besant and Bishop Leadbeater attended other
Conventions, Federations and Lodges, but they felt the strain,
were not well, and cancelled some engagements. On
2 October a very large party gathered to say good-bye (for
the last time) to Dr. Besant on her return to India, accom­
panied by Mr. Jinarajadasa.
Bishop Leadbeater, from 30 May when he landed at
Toulon, had fulfilled a very strenuous tour through France,
Austria, Hungary, Poland, Germany, Holland (Convention),
1See T h e T h eo so p h isl, (America) for Aug., Sep. and Oct. 1930 ; and
T h e T h e o s o p h ica l F o ru m .
■ N ew s a n d N otes, August, 1930, p. 2. This suggestion was formally
presented to the General Council, which voted in its favour, 1931.
NEW ASPECTS OF BROTHERHOOD 497
Switzerland (Congress), England (Convention), Wales (Con­
vention, when he presided). Answering questions was his
particular way of meeting his audiences.
On Mr. Jinarâjadâsa’s return to India, Dr. Besant
appointed him her Deputy to act for her in all matters
which were within her Presidential duties, which she might
submit in writing to his charge.1 He was not “ Deputy
President,” as some thought, but Deputy for the President, as
was permissible according to the Rules. Dr. Besant further
■empowered him to act for her in the administration of Adyar
when she was not present, and as Chairman of the meetings
of the General Council and Executive Committee when the
Vice-President was not there.
Benares was the scene of the International Convention,
•and the subject discussed was “ The Future of The Theosophi-
cal Society.” Dr. Besant, Mr. Jinarâjadâsa, Mr. H¡rendra
Nâth Datta, Mr. Wood and Mr. B. Sanjiva Rao were
the speakers.2 In her Presidential Address Dr. Besant
dealt with two questions : 1. The place of the Masters in our
lives. She recalled how H. P. B. had related all her life to
her Master’s wishes, which constituted for her the supremest
claim. 2. The two Masters most concerned with The Society
had hinted that Adyar should be given more attention. They
had chosen it, and sent H. P. B. to live in it for some
years to create an atmosphere to make it easy to receive
Their influence. She asked that Sections would each
send again a young man or woman to live in Adyar,
who would then carry that influence out to benefit the
world.
The many criticisms of The Society, engendered by the
declarations of Mr. Krishnamurti, were perhaps best summed
up in a statement made by Dr. J. J. van der Leeuw, when he
was asked to stand as General Secretary of the Netherlands
Section. He thought the occult had usurped the place of the
1From the original Order.
- See T h e F u tu re o f T h e T h e o s o p h ica l S o c ie ty , Convention Lectures, 1930.
32
498 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
spiritual, that Theosophy was no longer the experience of the
Eternal by each person, “ but a system of occult tradition in
possession of a group of perfect beings, not accessible to
ordinary men, but known by a few, who consequently become
mediators revealing the divine wisdom.” The consequence
of this was discipleship and initiation, the whole forming a
system of mediation in direct contradiction to Theosophy as
an experience of the Eternal in ourselves. . . . He saw only
one way out : That Theosophists “ must find their certainty
in the Theosophy of realisation and concentrate on that,
rejecting entirely the element of revelation . . He saw
the cause of most Theosophical difficulties in the system
of occult communications . . . He thought each should,
speak in his own name, authority and conviction, or
not at all.
Capt. Max Wardall, on behalf of the Theosophical Order
of Service, travelled extensively and had enthusiastic and
appreciative audiences everywhere, attracted by his vigorous,
eloquent urge to live simply yet healthfully. Dr. Arundale
and Shrimati Rukmini visited Australia, where Dr. Arundale
presided over some of the Convention.
Mlle Aimée Blech passed away early this year. She
had conducted a class on Theosophy for 25 years or more at
the Paris Headquarters, and was much admired and loved
for her ability and helpfulness. The class is still conducted
in her memory.
Requests came in to the President asking if something
could be done about the confusion likely to be caused by the
fact that Dr. de Purucker had changed the name of the Uni­
versal Brotherhood and Theosophical Society to The Theoso­
phical Society. She replied that she saw no reason for
disputing over names. . . . “ We remain simply The
Theosophical Society. The address on our paper shows that
we are still in our original home purchased by Col. Olcott,
chosen by the Masters as the first President. Keep kindly
feeling, that is the really important thing.”
P A U S E
“ It is by tolerance, as tolerant as God Himself, that men of all
religions are enabled to join together in every form of educational, social
and political work on the common platform of aspiration towards the
highest truth."
— A n n i e B e s a n t
1931
Dr. Besant decided to issue The Theosophisl again from
Adyar. She felt the work of The Society generally had
suffered from not receiving inspiration direct from “ the
Centre on earth for the forces of Shamballa.” Mr. and
Mrs. Hotchener decided to carry on a magazine and called it
World Theosophy. On Dr. Besant s passing, the editors ceased
publication, feeling they had fulfilled their promise to her.
In her “ Watch Tower ” notes 1Dr. Besant said the most
important matter for full and frank discussion seemed to her
to be “ The Future of The Theosophical Society.” “ Our
search for Truth must be continuous, and we have the joy of
believing that time is limitless.” She recommended all to
lend a helping hand to anyone we come into contact with ;
and to study the young people around us, to use our longer
experience to help and not to hinder them. Dr. Besant grew
indifferent as to whether she lived or not, awaiting her Master’s
will. When at the close of the first Round Table Conference
on India (London), it was announced that the “ responsibility
in the centre ” was accepted, Dr. Besant thought that for all
practical purposes that meant “ Home Rule ” for India, and all
the rest were mindr details. She felt her own work for India
in this life was over, and withdrew her attention from it.
1T h e T h eo so p h isl, January 1931.
500 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Mr. Jinarajadasa noted1 how the Roman Catholic
Church seemed to be making a determined attack on
Theosophy. At the end of the previous year articles
had appeared in Roman Catholic magazines : 1. In New
York on “ The Rejection of Theosophy,” 2. In Granada,
Nicaragua, “ The Fight against Theosophy." Both published
the same prayer to be repeated daily, which ended with
the words : “ in particular for the rejection of Theosophy.”
The Spanish magazine added an “ apostolic resolution ”
not to be belong to any Theosophical Society, nor to read
books on Theosophy. France often found the Theosophical
work opposed by the same Church.
On 18 January Dr. Besant went to Shrirangam to pre­
side over an All-India Humanitarian Conference, held in the
Temple buildings. She said in her opening speech that “ the
exercise of love and compassion towards all around is the
noblest quality of advanced mankind.” This effort fatigued
her and from then onwards she retired more and more—
resting, reading, pondering serenely. In May she slipped and
fell, injuring her left knee, and was confined to her room.
She was devotedly cared for under the direction of her faithful
physician, Dr. Srinivasa Murti.
Dr. Besant had decided, as notified in the January Theo-
sophist, to celebrate H. P. B.’s Centenary at Adyar on 11
August. She invited each National Secretary to come to Adyar
for this anniversary ; but as it was impractical for them to do
so, the Executive Committee advised all Sections and Lodges to
make a special festival of commemoration, stressing H. P. B.’s
spirit of sacrifice to The Society and the greatness of her
contribution to Theosophy. The Committee also recommend­
ed that at the festival Lodges should collaborate, if
opportunities occurred, with other Theosophical organisations
which differed from The Society, but are nevertheless deep
in their attachment to H. P. B.J
1 Ib id ., p. 168.
2 T h e T h eo so p h isl, M ay, 1931, pp. 153-4.
PAUSE 501
The August number of The Theosophist' was of particular
value in that all the articles except the “ Watch-Tower ”
notes, were by H. P. Blavatsky. Of special importance was
an unpublished article by her on, “ The Original Programme
of The Theosophical Society.” At Adyar, Mr. Jinarájadása
arranged a special exhibition of H. P. B.’s MSS., SCRAPBOOKS,
mementoes, etc., and exhibited a selection of letters from the
Masters. A cable of greetings was sent to Dr. de Purucker.
Earlier in the year there had been some fraternisation
between Lodges of the various Theosophical Societies, es­
pecially at Boston and Hollywood, where met The Theo­
sophical Society, the Point Loma Theosophical Society and
other groups.
Dr. Arundale and Shrimati Rukmini had been in Austra­
lia, where Dr. Arundale’s work was to arouse patriotism for
future purposes.2 They left Adyar in May, and visited Paris,
then Holland for the Blavatsky Convention in Amsterdam. In
London Dr. Arundale took Dr. Besant’s place as President
of the European Congress, held from 18-23 June, under the
direction of Miss Dijkgraaf, and gave the opening and closing
addresses.
On the 27th, at the invitation of Dr. de Purucker, Dr. and
Mrs. Arundale, with a number of members from England and
other countries, representatives of the Point Loma Society and
of four other groups, met and in speeches throughout the day
expressed their feelings of good will to all Theosophists, and to
all other Theosophical Societies outside their own, uniting in
their joint love and grateful remembrance of H.P.B. on the
centenary of her birth. Though they might and probably
would differ in methods of work and activity, yet they were
one in loyalty to the Founders of the Society, and to Their
envoy Mme. Blavatsky.2
1Edited during these years by Mr. Jinarájadása.
2See World Theosophy, February, 1931, “The Australian Experiment,"
by G. S. Arundale. His " Who's for Australia ” movement had over
100,000 members.
1T h e T h e o s o p h ica l F o ru m , Aug. 1931.
502 A SHO RT H ISTO RY OF T H E THEO SO PHICAL SOCIETY
Dr. and Mrs. Arundale went on to America where they
assisted at the Convention and Summer School. Earlier in
the year Mr. Rogers had resigned to devote himself to the
lecture field, and Mr. Sidney A. Cook had taken his place as
General Secretary. Dr. and Mrs. Arundale returned to India,
November, to assist at the Convention and to work general­
ly at Adyar.
Because of the uncertainty of Dr. Besant’s health, it was
thought advisable that the Vice-President, Mr. Warrington,
should take up his residence at Adyar, and assist in the
administration and guidance of The Society. He and
Mrs. Warrington arrived 18 December.
The Convention 24-29 December, Adyar, at which 13
countries were represented, was dedicated to the Founders.
The five Convention lectures were all intended to show how
Theosophists constantly think of the practical application of
Theosophy to the problems of life. The general title was—
Theosophy and the World’s Needs : 1. The Economic
Problem, the intrinsic value of things bought and sold, by
Mr. Jinarâjadâsa ; 2. The Shaping of Democracy, by
Dr. Arundale ; 3. Behind the Scenes of Unemployment, by
Mr. Wood ; 4. The Ground-work of Human Relations, by
Bishop Leadbeater ; 5. The Reorganisation of Civic Life, by
Mr. Jamshed Mehta (Nusservanji).1
The venerable President attended on two occasions. She
declared the Convention open, when she said : “. . . only
as you live Theosophy can you spread Theosophy . . .
The more you can use the higher bodies, the more
you can help the people among whom you live . . .
You can only use the higher bodies by living Theosophy
. . . The deeper you go into yourself, the more the real you
can be trusted . . . Learn to trust the Divine in you. There
lies your real strength. You are Divine . . . Believe in the
Self within you, the God within you, and then you will live
1The Lectures were not published as a book, but were summarised
in T h e T h co so p h isl, February, 1932.
the noblest life because it is a life of love.” This was her last
address.
From the Section Reports it was clear that The Society
was in a state of pause : Dr. Besant had withdrawn ; the
E. S. had suffered from suspension ; Krishnamurti re­
pudiated all claims made on his behalf, and since he had
been so much heralded, many either followed him, or were
doubtful of the validity of the whole position, and withdrew ;
almost all countries suffered from more or less severe
1 financial depression. Many Sections reported loss of members
from one or more of the above reasons, especially the last.
Some Sections were making progress. The Australian
broadcasting station was doing good work, and Australia
had benefited from the visits of Dr. and Mrs. Arundale and
•others. Netherlands East Indies opened an Olcott Park at
Bandoeng, had held a ten days Congress, and formed three
Federations of the Lodges. The Scandanavian countries
were beginning to benefit from the active interest of Mr. E. C.
Bolt. Mexico found handsome headquarters in Mexico
City, and the Section was still under the guidance of
Seiior A. de la Pena Gil. In Argentine was some restless­
ness, yet keen enthusiasm in connection with the Congress of
the S. American Federation of Lodges, in Mendoza, Uruguay.
Chile found that Theosophy interested the cultured classes
and Theosophical literature was extensively sold. Brazil
held a Blavatsky week at Rio de Janeiro, in which many
orators and musicians took part. South Africa divided into
two Sections ; in 1936 they amalgamated again.
The group of Jewish Theosophists at Basra were perse­
cuted by their orthodox leaders and eventually excommuni­
cated. This attack had repercussions as far afield as New
York and San Francisco, as well as in Cairo and Damascus.
In Basra sides were taken by the people and the newspapers.
Dr. Besant sent a statement that Theosophy was not a
religion but rather a philosophy, and did not set out in any
way to weaken allegiance to a person’s faith, but rather to
504 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
illumine and deepen it. Some years later an agreement was
arrived at between the Jewish Theosophists and the orthodox
section of the community. The ban of excommunication was
withdrawn by the President of the Jewish Ecclesiastical
Court in 1936.1
1932
Dr. Besant was still able to drive out a little, but pre­
sently even this much activity ceased.
In January, Dr. Fussell, Secretary-General of The Theo-
sophical Society, Point Loma, wrote on behalf of Dr. de
Purucker, offering Dr. Besant a home at Point Loma. The
American newspapers had given exaggerated accounts of the
unrest in India, and Dr. de Purucker thought if a violent out­
burst did occur, work at Adyar might become impossible or
inadvisable. Did the General Council deem it advisable to
make this transfer, he offered 200 of their 330 acres at a very
modest price. On behalf of Dr. Besant, Mr. Warrington replied,
appreciating this offer, and the concern shown for Dr. Besant,
but the outlook in India was far from being as dark as
painted and presented no danger to The Society’s activities.
The gesture of brotherliness was appreciated, and also the
willingness to sell a portion of the beautiful Point Loma
estate.
Bishop Leadbeater left, 25 February, for Australia with
many engagements ahead of him, but he contracted a severe
chill, and, in addition, injured his foot, which for some time
prevented him from walking. He was, in consequence, un­
able to visit New Zealand as arranged. But he especially
broadcasted twice to the members over 2GB, and was heard
perfectly. He returned to Adyar 18 June, where he worked
again on occult chemistry.
To commemorate the centenary of the birth of Col. Olcott,
the August Theosophist contained much material that is useful
1I r a q T im es, 4 March, 1936.
PAUSE 505
to the student of The Society’s history. Both this and the
material for H.P.B.’s centenary had been gathered together
with much patience by Mr. Jinarajadasa. He rarely left Adyar,
except occasionally to lecture at a conference, being in
constant attendance upon Dr. Besant.1
In December she said that her work for this life was
over. She was desirous that Adyar should benefit by having
a Theosophical School on the Estate. She had always drawn
youth about her, and now another generation of young
Theosophists was coming forward everywhere.
In March, Dr. Arundale with Shrimati Rukmini left for
England, where he gave talks to members only and spoke
at Convention. They visited Holland, Austria and Poland.
They left England, 2 July, for “ Olcott,” the name of the
Headquarters of the American Section, given to it in honour
of the President-Founder. There he and Shrimati Rukmini
took leading parts in the Institute, Summer School and Con­
vention, 18 July to 16 August. They went on to visit Lodges
in California. Mr. Geoffrey Hodson took a large share
in the Institute and Summer School, in which Mrs. Ransom
also assisted, both being engaged in touring the Sec­
tion where other lecturers were also at work, especially
Miss Codd.
Dr. Besant’s October birthday message for this year was
on that question which lay so near her heart—
The Future of
The Theosophical Society. “ This is a question,” she wrote,
“ which every Theosophist should address to his own heart
and brain. We claim to be a nucleus of universal Brother­
hood, and that is a lofty claim. What are we doing to turn our
claim into a reality by radiating the formative forces around
us, as is our duty, in order that the nucleus may shape an
appropriate body around it, as a temple for the spirit of Life,
the Creator, expressing some of its qualities for the salvation
1In September, Dr. Besant was awarded by Sir Robert Baden
Powell the rare distinction of the Silver Wolf Badge for her services to
the Scout Movement in India.
506 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
of a world perishing from the destructive agencies of Hate,
Hate, which is Death.”
The International Convention was held 24-27 December.
Delegates were present from 14 countries, as well as the
usual large contingent of Indian members. The Vice-Presi­
dent read the venerable President’s welcome : . . . Nothing
could make me so happy as to have you gathered round me
in the Masters’ home for the service of the Masters
and the helping of Their children.” On one day delegates,
with offerings of flowers, passed for the last time before her
in her room.
The Vice-President voiced his opinion that there now
existed in the membership “ a certain subtle conflict as
between the democratic spirit with which the Society started
out and the gradual emergence of a somewhat hierarchical
feeling which has come to pervade the ranks, and it is
claimed that this is an important factor militating against
that unity and vitality which ought to characterise such a
body as ours. As it is, the broad Theosophical Movement,
with its twenty or more different kinds of Theosophical
Societies, can but impress the inquirer as following un­
fortunately in the footsteps of religious Protestanism with its
numberless dissensions and sects.” 1
On the other hand, this History shows that while there
was from the first the democratic spirit, many years passed
before it actually prevailed ; and it is to-day more in evidence
than ever before. Democracy came only with the testing of
Ideals, and the emergence of those experienced enough to
engage expertly in their practice. The real democracy of The
Society has always been its determination to try to think
freely, honestly, tolerantly—and out of that freely ordered
action slowly grows.2
Statistics showed that the greatest numbers of members
had been in 1928, with 45,100. Since then the figures had
1General Report, 1932, p. 9.
' See the Rules at the end of this booh.
PAUSE 507
receded to 33,300. The year of highest actual increase had
been 1925—15.7 per cent ; 1930 had shown the greatest
■decrease—16 per cent.
The subject for the Convention public lectures was :
A World in Distress ; The Remedies as seen by the Theo-
sophist. The speakers were Bishop Leadbeater, Mr. Jina-
rajadasa, Mr. L. W. Rogers, Mr. A. Ranganatha Mudaliar
and Dr. Arundale.
Mr. and Mrs. Wood had been in Europe for four months,
first to preside over the Roumanian Convention, and then to
tour in Bulgaria, Turkey, Yugoslavia, Greece, Cyprus and
Egypt. Mr. Rogers had been a greatly appreciated lecturer
in New Zealand. In France a number of first-class lecturers
toured or visited the Lodges. Serge Brisy went again to North
African Lodges, a welcome helper. Italy characteristically
hoped that the mission of Art as a means to spiritual progress
would be understood in all their Lodges. In Germany The
Society was increasing, but, wrote the General Secretary, in
no other country were there so many Theosophical organisa­
tions ; they tried to work with them all. Hungary had
suffered so severely financially that it seemed they might lose
their Headquarters. Mr. Karl Reidel issued a typewritten
news and notes (supported by voluntary donations) of articles
from The Theosophist, etc., and distributed them through
Austria, Germany, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia,
etc. Chile acquired the long desired central Headquarters.
A Radio Station was opened under the Theosophical
auspices of the Luz de Valle Lodge, Cali, Colombia. The
changed political position in Spain gave hopes that under a
Republican Government The Society could go more freely
forward. In Java Mr. Hodson had stimulated interest. Be­
sides the usual educational work, members organised a move­
ment, the Premitran Tjahja (Friends of Light), to spread a
simple presentation of Theosophy among the illiterate. It was
well organised by 5 Javanese propagandists, and soon had
hundreds attending the fortnightly meetings.
508 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Outpost Lodges were carrying on with deepening interest,
though amidst difficulties : Shanghai, Hongkong, Singapore,
Kuala Lumpur (Selangor), Miroku (Tokyo), etc.
1933
The President now spoke but little, when she did she
stressed two points : 1. The necessity of guarding The
Society and Theosophy against all intrusions and of giving
Theosophy out “ as known and taught to us ” ; 2. The
immense importance of drawing youth into the work. As she
still cherished the longing that there should be at Adyar
a school in memory of her love for youth, Dr. Arundale
began to plan ways and means of bringing one into'
existence.
In the April Theosophist, Mr. Jinarajadasa mentioned the
oft-recurring question : Who is for Us ? asked in each
situation, or “ crisis.” He showed how in 1883, in England,
many answered No, and left, when they choose Dr. Anna
Kingsford, not Mr. Sinnett, as President of the London Lodge.
In 1884 all were asked if they recognised H. P. B. as
the “ channel ” in spite of the Coulomb charges. Many
answered No, and left. In 1895 the choice was between
Olcott and Judge, 90 per cent in America, and many else­
where, chose Judge, and left. In 1907 the question seemed,
to be whether members recognised Annie Besant as chosen
by the Masters. Many said No—and resigned. And now the
question came again in construing Krishnamurti’s message as
meaning : “ The Masters of the Wisdom are not necessary
for the world’s welfare,” the Path to Them discredited. But
one answer, he said, was sure : “ Not one doubt will be
resolved by leaving the work undone." 1
A set of important articles was published by Mr. Jina­
rajadasa in The Theosophist (beginning in September) on :
“ Did Madame Blavatsky Forge the Mahatma Letters,” and
* T h e T h eo so p h ist, April, 1933, p. 6-8.
PA USE 509
he settled, with incontestible documentary proof, that she
did not.
On 20 September the news flashed round the world
.that Annie Besant had passed away. With one accord the
¡newspapers of the world recounted (more or less intelligently)
¡the story of her life.
Dr'. Besant left her body at 4 p.m. She was lying in her
bed-room, and gathered about her were Bishop Leadbeater,
Miss Willson, Mr. Sri Ram, and Mr. Jinarajadasa holding
her hand. At 7 a.m. next day her body was brought down
into the great Hall. It was robed in a favourite gold-
•embroidered sari, and covered with a silk cloth bearing the
■emblem of The Society, also a red and green Home Rule
flag, and on her breast was laid a small silk cloth on which
was embroidered the seal of The Society. The great gather­
ing which had come to pay its respects filed past, laying a
tribute of flowers on the body. At 8 a.m. a religious service
was held, and Bishop Leadbeater pronounced the benedic­
tion which Dr. Besant had composed :
“ May the Holy Ones, whose pupils we aspire to become, show
us the light we seek, give us the strong aid of Their Compassion and
Their Wisdom. There is a Peace that passeth understanding ; it abides
in the hearts of those who live in the Eternal. There is a Power that
maketh all things new ; it live and moves in those who know the Self
as One. May that Peace brood over us, that Power uplift us, till we stand
where the One Initiator is invoked, till we see His star shine forth." 1
The body was then taken in procession along Founders’
avenue to the Masonic Temple to receive a farewell, then
along an avenue made through the casuarina groves to a
place near the river and the sea. It was then rested upon a
great sandal-wood pyre. Tributes were paid to the great
leader, and some verses chanted from the Bhagavad Gita.
The pyre was lighted—and “ the flames consumed the
noble body.” A few days later the ashes were placed in a
^silver vessel and carried to Benares by way of Bombay,
where it rested for a day. At Benares the silver vessel was
1Which appeared in the early liturgy of the Liberal Catholic Church.
510 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
placed in the 1heosophical Hall, and a last tribute paid to
Dr. Besant. Bhagavan Das carried the ashes to the Ganges,
accompanied by a great procession, deposited them in a
flower-decked boat, and they were immersed in the river.
Dr. Besant had said in 1915 that her ashes should remain in
India, for in life and in death she was consecrated to the
Motherland.1 So passed one of the world’s very greatest.
A crowded meeting was held in the Benares Town Hall,
and Dr. Besant was extolled for her services to India.'
Meetings were held throughout The Society to put on
record the great appreciation and gratitude all had for
Dr. Besant’s sacrifices and services to the world and to The
Society. The Sheriff of Madras called a public meeting,
presided over by the Mayor, “ to express the citizen s appreci­
ation of the services rendered to the country by the late
Annie Besant and to take steps to perpetuate her memory.”
Mr. Warrington assumed, 20 September, presidential
responsibilities until the election of a new President. He
appointed Dr. Arundale as Vice-President.
A meeting was held, 24 September, at which Mr Jina-
rajadasa announced Bishop Leadbeater’s appointment by
Dr. Besant as her successor in office as the Outer Head of
the Esoteric School.
Although he had been under such a great strain for two
years, Mr. Jinarajadasa left Adyar in October for a lecturing
tour, paying a short visit in Paris on his way to England.
From 1-3 December he was at Cardiff where his “ charm
and simplicity of address ” won all hearts. In Scotland 9-10
December he stressed the idea that “ man is trying to find
God, but God is also trying to find man.” In London he
gave two address : The Work of the Christ in the World
Today ; and The Theosophical Society and Its Wisdom.
1T h e T h eo so p h ist, Sept. 1915, p. 550.
- She had taken to heart the words ofa Master in 1881 : "Oh! for
the noble and unselfish man to help us effectively in India in that divine
task. All our knowledge, past and present, would not be sufficient to
repay him.”
PAUSE 511
In April, Dr. Arundale and Shrimati Rukmini left for
England where Dr. Arundale was invited to preside over the
Convention. He raised three special points for the attention
of members : 1. The betterment of the world ; 2. To cultivate
beauty as opposed to ugliness ; 3. In patriotism to find out
the will of the Elder Brethren and stand for it. Dr. Arundale
and Shrimati Rukmini visited Holland, where both delight
to dwell at the beautiful Centre, St. Michael, Iluizen,
of which Shrimati Rukmini became the head in September,
1934. They went on to the United States, where both
Dr. Arundale and Mr. Rogers spoke at the World’s Fair,
Chicago, when the World Fellowship of Faiths held a Con­
ference. At the American Convention Dr. Arundale gave
several series of lectures, which appeared in the book entitled,
Mount Everest ; Its Spiritual Significance. Here as elsewhere
Shrimati Rukmini drew young people together and urged
them to greater service. By way of Australia, they returned
to Adyar, 1 December.
In November it was announced that both Dr. Arundale
and Mr. Wood had accepted nomination for President.
Mr. Wood resigned his post as Recording Secretary, and
Mr. H. Frei was appointed in his place. As Mr. Schwarz had
died, Mr. A. J. Hamerster was appointed Treasurer.
Mr. Jinarajadasa refused to stand as President, though
many asked him to do so. In examining the packet of
Dr. Besant’s letters which Dr. Arundale had given him in
the previous April, he found two which he thought it his duty
to The Society to publish. In one, dated September 1926
(A.merica), Dr. Besant said to Dr. Arundale : “ As you are to
succeed me as President, I think you should come over here.
This is our most numerous Section, and you must win its
affection, before the election of 1928 . . In the other, 12
October (America), she wrote : “ Master said that you were to
become President, and I took if for granted that it would be in
1928 . . .” Dr. Arundale had cabled to her that as long as she
was alive the question of any other President did not arise.
512 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Considerable objection was taken to the publication of
these letters, as prejudicing the election, and several of
Mr. Wood’s friends wrote what they said they knew of
Dr. Besant’s views of the Presidentship—that she would not
leave any indication as to the person on whom the choice
should fall.
Mr. Wood issued his election Manifesto on 1November.
After explaining his position, he too objected to the publi­
cation of the letters and said he could not admit “ any in­
junctive value ” in them. Dr. Arundale did not at first issue
a Manifesto, though he took exception to the “ memories ”
several people published of conversations with Dr. Besant
on the Presidentship.
Mr. Warrington refused to print any manifestoes in
The Theosophist, but Mr. Wood felt it was urgent that members
■should not “ vote for their President in the dark.” He had sent
packets of his Manifesto to General Secretaries and asked
them to disseminate them as he could not reach very many
privately. Various Section magazines presently printed it.
The Convention lectures were to have been on “ Occult­
ism,” but this was changed to a memorial convention, dealing
with the life and activities of Dr. Besant. Dr. Arundale
spoke of her “ as Warrior.” Mr. Wood’s subject was
“ Dr. Besant and The Theosophical Movement.” Hirendra-
nath Datta related the part she played in “ India’s Revival.”
Mr. Manjeri Ram spoke of the many “ Social Reforms ” she
had either inaugurated or supported. Bishop Leadbeater
described her work as an “ Occultist” ; and Sir C. P. Rama-
swami Iyer her gifts as a “ Comrade and Leader.”
A number of members thought that in Mr. Wood’s talk
there had been a note of criticism unsuitable to the occasion,
and protested. This protest was used in the Presidential
campaign, but it was not intended to be prejudicial to
his candidacy.
The Young Theosophists had been active during the
year. In India their Federation ceased to be “ autonomous ”
PAUSE 513
and became part of the Indian Section, transferring its
Headquarters from Bombay to Adyar.
Most Sections were emerging slowly out of the world
depression, which hit the Finnish Section rather severely and
obliged it to go bankrupt because of high interest. The mem­
bers re-formed the Section and obtained a new charter.
The Recording Secretary, Mr. Frei, supplied some
interesting analyses of the membership condition, which con­
tinued to show some loss, for which there seemed to be three
causes : 1. Financial depression ; 2. Lack of leadership and
organised propaganda ; 3. The influence of the teachings
of Mr. Krishnamurti. Yet, though there was loss, still,
almost all Sections reported greater interest. The Danish
Report gave some useful statistics showing the interests
of their members : The Masters and the Path and Ethics, 53
per cent ; Occult Research and the Doctrine of Evolution,
40 per cent ; the Teachings of Krishnamurti, 11 per cent ;
Ceremonial, none. The South American Federation had met
at Santiago, Chile, with members from Argentine, Uruguay
and Peru. The Philippine Islands Section was chartered and
was very enterprising, especially the younger members.
Well-known lecturers were travelling from Section to
Section, and within each country the Theosophical platform
was well supplied with first-class work. America inaugurated
its Greater America Plan, under the direction of Dr. Pieter K.
Roest, for the furtherance of the dissemination of Theosophy
throughout the country.
33
U N D E R DR. A R U N D A L E ’S L E A D E R S H IP
“ I want you to realise that my own personal liberation lies in the
endeavour to render to the Elder Brethren in the outer world the best
service that lies in my power.”
—G. S. A r u n d a l e
1934
BlSHOP Leadbeater left Madras 31 January, though very
frail of body, and now close on 87 years old. He addressed
meetings in Bombay and out at the Juhu Colony. On board,
his health grew so rapidly worse that he was carried ashore to
Perth, 13 February. He hoped to recover enough to go on to
Sydney, there to celebrate the Easter Services he had so
seldom missed since 1916. But, though he grew worse, yet
the day before he died he dictated notes, and spoke
enthusiastically of the necessity of carrying The Society
through “ to a new and a bigger phase of its life." He passed
away on 1 March. His last words of encouragement were—
“ Carry on ! ” His stately, majestic body was embalmed
and taken to Sydney for cremation, 17 March, as there was
no crematorium in W. Australia. So passed yet one more
of the great figures in The Society.1
Meanwhile, the presidential election brought to the
surface some acute differences of opinion in The Society.
Some showed so strongly their objection to Dr. Arundale’s
ecclesiastical position that he deemed it well to announce
that, if elected, he would cease to wear clerical dress
and be addressed Dr. or as Mr. Arundale, and not by his
1For tributes to Bishop Leadbeater and his work see T h e Thcosophisl
May. 1934.
UNDER DR. ARUNDALES LEADERSHIP 515
episcopal title, and thereby “ avoid all danger of confusion
or identification between The Theosophical Society and
the Liberal Catholic Church.” ' Many members thought this
unnecessary.
As Mr. Warrington continued to refuse to publish in
The Theosophist the pros and cons of the election, Mr. Wood
protested further, and pointed out that this election was
without precedent, since on all previous occasions, 1907,
14, ’21, ’28, Dr. Besant was the sole nominee, so manifestoes
had not been necessary. Nomination lists showed that 30
members of the General Council had nominated Dr. Arundale,
5 had nominated Mr. Wood, 1 Mr. Jinarajadasa, despite his
refusal to stand, and 4 were invalid through being too late.
Dr. Arundale was persuaded to issue A Statement,
since so many demanded that he should. Criticism was
freely directed against both candidates, and Mr. Wood
replied to his in a “ Back to the Manifesto ” leaflet. These
statements did not really much affect the issue.
It was a matter of concern to many as to what both
candidates’ views were with regard to Krishnamurti’s outlook.
Dr. Arundale, who had played so large a part in his early
training, said it had been “ the splendid Karma of The Theo­
sophical Society thus to have been able to give to Krishnaji
protection and the support he needed in the beginning of his
great mission. But now the time has come for The Theo­
sophical Society to carry on its own work, even as equally
Krishnaji must follow his own path . . . But The Theosophical
Society will render service . . . to other people from time to
time, and it must never have any exclusive or even any
definite connection with anyone. . .”2
Mr. Wood said that he would allow in The Society no
official place for other organisations, “ on its platform or in
its programmes, except that which is accorded to all religions
as subjects of earnest reverent study and investigation.” He
1A S ta tem en t, by G. S. Arundale, p. 4.
2 T h e A m erica n T h eo so p h ist, Jan. 1934, pp. 2, 3.
516 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
would give to Krishnamurti’s movement the same position as
to the others. The Society should extend to him the reverent
attention given to other teachers of the past and present. . .
If any member becomes a spiritual teacher he is simply a
private individual, for “ The Society has no teachers.” 1
The Besant Memorial School was founded in March,
and was placed under the management of the Besant
Educational Trust, with Dr. Arundale as President and Hon.
Educational Adviser, Dr. Srinivasa Murti as Vice-President
and well-known Adyar residents as an Executive Committee.
The Trust consisted of 49 members, all F.T.S., 27 Indian,
5 English, 4 American, 2 Dutch, 1 each New Zealand,
Switzerland, Poland, Scotland, Burma. There were numerous
notable patrons. It was made clear that the Trust had no
official connection with the Society nor was the latter responsi­
ble for it. The School was to be conducted on the lines
laid down by Dr. Besant in her many educational writings,
and in her guidance of the institutions with which she had
been associated, as set forth in her pamphlet on The
Principles o f Education. The Trust was granted a charter of
incorporation in Madras, 22 March, and was opened in*June,
in Besant Gardens, rented to it by The Society.
On 20 June Mr. Warrington announced that Dr. Arundale
was elected President. The voting was—Dr. Arundale
15,604 ; Mr. Wood 4,825 ; blank or invalid 340. 72 per cent
of the members had voted : 54.14 for Dr. Arundale ; 16.76 for
Mr. Wood/'
The Presidential inaugural ceremony took place next
day at 8 a.m., when Mr. Warrington declared Dr. Arundale
elected for the ensuing 7 years from 21 June. He congratulated
him on the honour that was conferred upon him, and
Mrs. Arundale on the work that lay ahead as his colleague.
Among the meetings arranged to welcome Dr. Arundale to
1M a n ifesto .
-See T h e T h eo so p h ist, July 1934, pp. 481-4. According to the revised
Rules a simple majority of votes secures election.
U N D ER DR. A RU N D A LES LEA D ERSH IP 517
his new office was one convened by the Sheriff of Madras,
where a great crowd gathered to congratulate him.
On assuming office, Dr. Arundale issued three Letters.
To the general public he reiterated the Three Objects as
those for which The Society stands, and gave his own
idea of the “ marks Theosophy makes upon the chart
of Life ” : 1. Life is essentially one and universal ; 2
Life is within a great evolutionary process whereby an
infinitude of life-units move from lowliest unconsciousness,
though innumerable stages of unfolding to heights of self-
consciousness ; 3. This irresistible movement is under be­
neficent and immutable law, order and purpose ; 4. That all
good and ill fortune individual or collective are signs of this
evolutionary principle at work ; 5. Each life-unit can hasten
or retard the pace of its own evolutionary process, through
understanding or through ignorance. In effect, ‘ Theosophy
is an expression of Truth Universal,”—and is for all, and
serves each and all on the way to fulfilment.
To members he pledged himself to keep wide open the
doors of The Society to all who accept Brotherhood in terms
of the First Object ; faithfully to guard The Society against
dominance by or subordination to any dogma or doctrine ;
to spread far and wide the science of Life given by the
Masters through H. P. B. and those who succeeded her ; to
encourage the Theosophical Order of Service to undertake all
suitable and practical application of this science of Life to the
world ; to encourage youth to perceive in Theosophy a high
road to Truth, Freedom and Happiness ; to remind members
to study Theosophy and to find the Truth of it in personal
experience. Finally, that he would himself so try to live and
work for The Society that it would grow in honour and dignity
and earn respectful consideration from the world. His motto
was : “ Together though differently.”
In the third letter, the President put a dozen searching
questions to General Secretaries, the gist of which was how to
1 The Theosophisl, July 1934, p. 510, et seq.
518 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
promote the best interests of The Society, based on the
characteristic qualities and on the experience of each National
Society, and how to work in uttermost co-operation with
one another.
The President and Shrimati Rukmini went on a hurried
tour to America and Europe. They halted in Bombay, 25
July, and were much photographed, garlanded and inter­
viewed ; and to a luncheon party in Dr. Arundale’s honour
came many of Bombay’s principal figures—civic, educational,
press and political. At the Theosophical Hall he spoke on
“ The Future of The Theosophical Society,” as he envisaged it.
They left Bombay on the 26th, and from Brindisi went
across to Naples to catch another boat to Amercia. At
Genoa, Signor Castellani, General Secretary, gathered a party
of members to meet them, and Castellani explained that
the benevolent attitude of the Italian Government towards
The Society enabled it to advance its teachings, especially
those that gave guidance in living a truly spiritual life and
to character-building.
At Olcott, Wheaton, the President attended the Conven­
tion and Summer School in his new capacity. He outlined
his hopes for the future of The Society. The Young Theo-
sophists, under the inspiration of Shrimati Rukmini, played a
vigorous part in this Convention, and elected her President
of their newly organised group.
Dr. and Mrs. Arundale then went direct to Paris, where
the President’s appeal was that we offer all we can to The
Society to ensure its permanence, even though its form
changed with the times. Brussels came next, 16-18 Septem­
ber. When they reached Amsterdam, the President called
together, the European General Secretaries, to confer
with them on the work in general. Twentj'-three National
Societies were represented. The President analysed the
strength and weakness of The Society’s position, and
asked for a “ Straight Theosophy ” based on our classic
literature. Lodges, he said, should never forget that their
UNDER DR. ARUNDALES LEADERSHIP 519
primary purpose is to instruct members in Theosophy, and
our literature should be expressed in a language that all can
understand.
Dr. Arundale and Shrimati Rukmini arrived in England
for 1 October, to dedicate the new Headquarters. Dr. Arun­
dale gave two public lectures, which were published as one
pamphlet—The Science o f Theosophy. He gave most of his
time to members meetings, when he outlined his policy. He
visited Wales (where the Annie Besant Memorial Hall was
opened in Cardiff), Nottingham and Leeds, and then both
Glasgow and Edinburgh, and returned to the Continent, visit­
ing Paris, October, and reaching Adyar, 15 November.
The President nominated as Vice-President Mr. Hiren-
dranáth Datta, who received a unanimous vote. Dr. Srini­
vasa Murti was appointed Recording Secretary, and
Mr. Hamerster remained as Treasurer.
The Theosophisl was enlarged, beginning with the October
number. In his “ Watch-Tower ” notes the President pointed
out that there were still many countries where there was
either no Lodge or not yet a National Society, but it needed
a large propaganda fund adequately to deal with opening up
new fields. He received a gift of Rs.5,000 (£400) for a
broadcasting station at Adyar, but this sum has not yet been
supplemented sufficiently to allow of its erection.
It was decided to hold the first International Convention
over which Dr. Arundale presided in Adyar. In his Presi­
dential Address he emphasised that the Light we seek is the
Light of Theosophy, “ the Jewel of Eternity ” ; and that The
Society should be “ an outward and visible sign of the One
and Indivisible Life.” He said that since 1875 140,000
persons had been admitted to membership, and though for
reasons of death, resignation, depression and indecision many
had left, there still were over 30,000 members, and over 1,200
Lodges. He hoped to see Chinese and Japanese Sections
created ; and he gave his support to the many who still
carried the Theosophical flag far and wide. He thought we
520 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
introduced “ the thin edge of a most dangerous wedge, if we
regarded with indifference a Lodge or a Section, or our Society
as a whole associating itself by resolution or in any other
way with some particular mode of thought or activity.” Or
if any subtle penalisation or bias were set up for or against
any such association—then from that to orthodoxy was no
long step. He felt the spirit of the Rules was infringed if for
any reason membership was refused to any person.
Dr. Arundale announced two planks in his presidential
policy : 1. Theosophy, as straight, impersonal, all-embrac­
ing, beautiful and inspiring as we can draw it from the well of
Life ; 2. Collective solidarity amidst the wealth of individual
differences. He hoped that with him would stand the great
majority of the membership.
Changes were made in the Directorship of the Adyar
Library. Dr. Srinivasa Murti became Hon. Director,
with Dr. Kunhan Raja as Curator of the Eastern Section
and Mr. Hamerster Curator of the Western Section,
Miss Gertrude Watkin (from New Zealand) became Librarian*
The Library retained its cordial relationships with a number
of Universities and Oriental Institutes. There were 35,974
books and pamphlets, and 18,000 manuscripts, both paper
and plam-leaf.
On the demise of Bishop Leadbeater, Mr. Jinarâjadâsa
became Head of the E.S., according to Dr. Besant’s wishes.
He took over charge of the Shrine Rooms at Adyar built for
the purpose by E. S. students, first under Col. Olcott’s direc­
tion in 1904 and completed in 1908 by Dr. Besant, when
the General Council granted the exclusive use of them in
perpetuity as long as the E. S. shall exist ; should it cease to
exist then the rooms revert to The Society.
Mr. Jinarâjadâsa had travelled much in France, Switzer­
land, Belgium, Holland, Portugal and Spain. He presided
over the European Congress held at Barcelona, 28 March-
4 April, when 14 countries were represented. The municipality
lent to the Congress a very large hall in the buildings of the
UNDER DR. ARUNDALES LEADERSHIP 521
International Exhibition. The Minister for Culture of
Catalonia said at the opening meeting that he was impressed
by what the Congress represented in true internationalism
and spirituality. At Mr. Jinarajadasa’s lecture, in Spanish,
some 2,000 were present. He visualised that the destiny of
the Latin race lay in the domain of culture, and its work was
to synthesise all knowledge by brilliant intuitions. His
speech was broadcast and was well-reported in the news­
papers. On the 31st he presided over a meeting of the
International Fellowship of the Arts and Crafts. He said :
The generations of the future as they come to birth should
be greeted by a great artistry in life.” One of the chief
discussions was was on “ The United States of Europe.”
It was regarded as an innovation to discuss political problems
at such meetings. Out of the discussion grew a Resolution
that to assist in the solution of the difficulties besetting
Europe, the Federation accepted as a principle the desirability
of bringing the nations of Europe together in Brotherhood.
Another Resolution was to allocate a session to Youth
at the next Congress, and each country was to send a youth
deputation ; and the National Societies were invited to con­
sider how Theosophy could be made of greater interest and
value to young people.
This Congress was a striking demonstration of Mr. Jina­
rajadasa’s deep understanding of and sympathy with Spanish
and Portugese peoples, the secret of his great influence with
them. They seem to realise in him an interpreter of their
ideals, one who can outline them in terms of beauty, culture
and ordered artistry.
Mr. Jinarajadasa went on to S. America, where a Con­
gress was held in Rio de Janeiro, 15 June. He created in Rio
a centre for the Southern Hemisphere, in liaison with the head-
centre already established in Sydney. The seventh Race
will develop, it is said, in the Southern Hemisphere. He
was already sowing seeds which would germinate in that far-
off future. He went long distances to visit other places and
522 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
Lodges, and often encountered opposition from the Roman
Catholic Church. He visited Colombia, where he spoke on
“ The Ideals and Ethics of the Future S. America ” ; then
Cuba and Puerto Rico, and big audiences welcomed him in
each country. He went on to Chicago 7-9 October, then
London and Paris, and was back in India 17 November.
Mr. Charles Blech passed away 7 March, after 29 years
of undeviating service as General Secretary in France. His
place was filled by Prof. Marcault, who is supported by a
very able group of members.
Among Young Theosophists the work had leapt forward
in many countries, encouraged by both Dr. Arundale and
Shrimati Rukmini, who have become their leaders.
In England, a Research Centre was sanctioned which
took over the work hitherto done by the Theosophical World
University. It aimed at providing scientific material for the use
of those wishing to study Theosophy from that point of view.
Many departments have been added, which attract both
members and non-members, men and women already
known in the scientific world. The Centre has published
several transactions, and some of the members have publish­
ed books. The Centre links up with the Research Seminars
in New York, under the direction of Mr. Fritz Kunz, which
provide practical material for the student. He originated the
film-slide method of teaching and studying Theosophy.
1935
The President decided to spend this year in India to
reorganise the administration and to develop his “ Seven Year
Plan.” Each item in this plan was intended to contribute to
the solidarity of The Society, and was to be financially self-
supporting. His proposals were, briefly :
1. International: Manuals of Theosophy for readers of
different ages ; An International Theosophical Propaganda
Fund, to be administered by the Executive Committee ; A
UNDER DR. ARUNDALES LEADERSHIP 523
short-wave Theosophical Broadcasting Station, at Adyar ;
Improvement of Propaganda.
2. Development o f Adyar : A new Adyar Library Building
fully fitted and equipped (the present one is now hopelessly
inadequate) ; For the Vasanta Press and Theosophical Pub­
lishing House a reorganisation scheme ; Besant Memorial
School (shaping well) ; Adyar Fellowships, for young people
to reside at Adyar for a time ; Theosophical Training Centre ;
Theosophical Press Bureau ; Film of Adyar (done) ; Youth—
a Besant Scout Camp (over a thousand Scouts use it every
year), and Vasanta Youth Lodge (now built) ; Adyar Players
for dramatic work ; Adyar Theatre (partly realised) ; Increase
the Adyar Museum ; Shrine of Greatness ; International
Bureaux—clearing houses for all progressive Brotherhood
activities.
The European Congress was held in the beautiful
Section Headquarters, Amsterdam, 25-30 July, over which
Prof. Marcault presided. More than 400 delegates were
present and 17 countries were represented. It was, as usual,
organised by Mr. P. M. Cochius 1 and his able assistant,
Miss F. Selever (General Secretary in Hungary) who had
become expert in handling these Congresses.
The chief subject for discussion was : “ How Can World
Peace Be Achieved by the Practice of Brotherhood ? ”—for
the Individual, the Family, Business, Politics, Science, Art,
Social Organisation. Nationalism, Internationalism, Religion,
Education. All these subjects were expounded by competent
speakers from many countries. Prof. Marcault advised
members never to forget that no practice is truly effective
without its clearly thought out and expressed theory . . .
therefore the necessity of organised campaigns setting forth
“ Straight Theosophy.” True Peace is a condition necessary
to spiritual growth. The Society should aid the 5th Race to
'The General Secretaries of the European Federation have been :
Johan van Manen, 1921-6 ; L. A. R Wallace, 1906-13 ; J. 1. Wedgwood,
1913-21 ; Miss C. Dijkgraaf, 1
921-9; P. M. Cochius 1929-1938.
524 A SH O R T H ISTO R Y OF T H E THEO SO PHIC A L SOCIETY
accomplish its mission—that humanity should replace the
human species. If such a Congress were able to create
acceptable thought-forms of all departments of activity, “ it
would have qualified itself for what it should actually be : a
Spiritual League of Nations, a nucleus of the Universal
Brotherhood of humanity in Europe.”
Youth Day was 25 July, with Mr. Alex. Elmore in the
chair. The European Federation of Young Theosophists had
come into being the previous day, the third to be organ­
ised. Shrimati Rukmini Devi was elected President, with
Alex. Elmore and Felix Layton as Joint General Secretaries-
Shrimati Rukmini asked for a Youth to Youth campaign,
to be supported with leaflets, and articles in journals, etc.—a
campaign “ to harness the Youth spirit to the worlds problems
and one that will be effective among Young Theosophists all
over the world ” ; and to make a searching enquiry as to
* What is Youth thinking about?—upon every kind of subject."
The material for the Straight Theosophy Campaign
consisted of a detailed Programme covering three months,
October to December, replete with suggestions for Lodge and
public work ; and a set of leaflets covering all the main lines
of Theosophic thought, briefly set out. Dr. Arundale him­
self stressed two fundamental considerations for this Cam­
paign : 1. To expound the Theosophy to be found in our
splendid literature . . . as revealed through H. B. Blavatsky
and her greater pupils ; 2. Happy comradeship. He asked
all to work for a fuller Brotherhood, and for Indian members
to promote Hindu-Muslim unity. This Campaign was taken
up and carried through by every Section, many Lodges
persenting the full programme.
On 20 September the Garden of Remembrance, where
Dr. Besants body was cremated and where some of Bishop
Leadbeater’s ashes repose, was dedicated to both. It is a
place of peace and of pilgrimage.
On the 29th the President and Shrimati Rukmini left on
a tour in North India, visiting Calcutta, Gaya, Patna, Benares
UNDER DR. ARUNDALES LEADERSHIP 525
(where a Conference was held, 7 October), Allahabad and
Bombay 9-14th. The President’s chief subjects were : Theo­
sophy and The Theosophical Society ; Problems of Life ;
The Future of Education ; Gods in the Becoming, etc. He
spoke for many organisations, and everywhere enlisted
support for the Besant Memorial School. Ahmedabad came
next, where the Gujerat and Kathiawar Federation held a
Conference, 15-17 October, and where, because of the fine
public work of the members, The Society is held in honour.
In Bhavanagar the President and Shrimati Rukmini were
received with the usual honours which this State gives to
Theosophical leaders. Throughout his tour the President
realised that for the time being talks with members were
more important than public lectures. He regretted the
tendency to stamp Theosophy with schemes and panaceas,
“ instead of stamping these with Theosophy, and so fulfilling
the trust reposed in us.”
The November Theosophist was made a special 60 years
Jubilee number, and contained the views of the President and
the active leading workers throughout The Society, all express­
ing their outlook upon and feeling for The Society and its
Objects. These showed emphatically that there was no
•diminution of faith in its purpose, and no weakening of
determination to see it carried on to ever greater service and
sacrifice in the world’s interests. The President restated
the existence of “ three sections in The Society: 1. The
official and general membership of all who join, free, indepen­
dent ; 2. The Esoteric School to which is admitted those who
seek to fit themselves to share with the Elder Brethren the
■
*sweet but heavy burden of helping the world ’ ; 3. The Elder
Brethren, the Inner Government of the World.” 1
The Diamond Jubilee International Convention at Adyar
lasted from 25 December to 5 January 1936. Twenty-two over­
seas countries sent 75 delegates. The rest of the 1,500 delegates
were from all parts of India. In his Presidential Address
1O p . cit., pp. 105-110 ; "Theosophy—The Eternal Word."
526 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Dr. Arundale said he hoped the day was not far distant when
“ those movements which have become detached from the
parent stem will once again become part of one Theosophical
Society, indivisible in its all-inclusive Brotherhood, but diverse
as to the many modes of understanding and interpretation of
Theosophy . . . ” He asked : Why do members sometimes
resign their membership ? for above us all, even the greatest,
“ towers The Theosophical Society with its lofty impersonal
Objects, with its mighty call to Universal Friendship and to
Perfect Freedom.” He said our watchwords for the next
few years, should be : 1. S olidarity, as set forth in the First
Object; 2. W isdom, as in the Second Object; 3. A spiration,
as in the Third Object. And the outcome of all three should
be A ctivity.1
The four main Convention addresses were : I. God as
Love, by Hirendranath Datta ; 2. Let the Universe Enter, by
Mr. Jinarajadasa; 3. Modem Theosophy and Evolution, by
Prof. Marcault; 4. Creation and the Gods ; A Study of
Creative Processes, by Mr. Hodson.
As the Campaign for 1936 was to be “ There is a Plan,”
the great Plan of Evolution as disclosed by Theosophy,
the President arranged for a discussion on—Winning the
World to Theosophy ; Vital Theosophical Literature. He
related that from the lists sent in of 25 books which would
form a model library, T he A ncient W isdom received a 100
per cent vote, The S ecret D octrine 86 per cent and T he K ey to
T heosophy was high in the list.
The Indian Convention lecture was by Shrimati Rukmini
on “ India’s Genius in Art.” A special meeting discussed
how we should show more brotherhood to “ Our Brethren of
the Animal, Vegetable and Mineral Kingdoms.” The question
of Neutrality was discussed, when the President suggested
that in the word “ universality ” a solution might be found. ,
On 28 December, the younger members decided to form
a World Federation of Young Theosophists, with Shrimati
1See The Theosophist, January, 1936, pp. 297-304.
UNDER DR. ARUNDALES LEADERSHIP 527
Rukmini as President, and Dr. Arundale ex-officio Hon.
President, with headquarters at Adyar. They adopted three
aims : I. To bring Theosophy to the Youth of the World ; 2.
To support and strengthen The Theosophical Society ; 3. To
promote practical Brotherhood—National and International.
The General Secretary was Felix Layton, with Alex. Elmore
as Assistant. Their magazine. The Young Theosophist, journal
of the Indian Federation, became international, and was edited
by Shrimati Rukmini and J. L. Davidge.
On the same day The Adyar Library celebrated its
Golden Jubilee and formed an Adyar Library Association,
open to all, in grateful memory of Col. Olcott, and to com­
memorate 1 January, 1886, when he started the Library
building.
Shrimati Rukmini twice presented The Light o f Asia,
done in mime and dance with exquisite costumes, and she
gave also a dance recital. On 27 December, the Adyar
Players founded an Academy of Arts with her as President.
The Players hoped to have a theatre worthy of this great
centre of International Culture and that it in time it will attract
visits of the greatest exponents of the various arts, and make
this “ aspect of Theosophy an essential work of The Theoso­
phical Society.” The Objects of the Academy are : 1. To
emphasise the essential unity of all true art ; 2. To work for
the recognition of the arts as inherent in effecive individual,
national and religious growth.
Mr. Jinaràjadàsa left Adyar, 28 February, on a long tour.
He first visited Australia where he presided over the
Convention in Sydney 18-21 April.1 In his speech he said :
“ The true signifcance of Theosophy lies in the proclama­
tion of the oldest teaching which the world contains, that the
nature of God resides in man.” He officially inaugurated the
first Radio Theosophical Lodge, 16 April. He arrived in
Auckland 4 May, where he gave two lectures : 1. Empire,
1Mr. Jinaràjadàsa, as Head of the E. S., was now head of and
responsible for The Manor.
528 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
India, and the World Federation for Peace ; 2. The Conquest
of Spirit and Matter (which he repeated everywhere). To
members he spoke on The Future Work of The Society,
bringing in always the need for lovelier expressions of art.
Because he had long advocated this introduction of beauty
into The Society’s work, he was often called “ the apostle of
Art and Beauty.” He arrived in San Francisco 17 June, to
embark on a strenuous tour. His chief concern as Head of
the E. S., was to visit as many such groups as possible. He
was at the American Headquarters for the Convention, where
he spoke on “ Unfolding the Intuition." He paid a short
visit to England, to the Scandanavian countries, and was in
Paris by 5 November where he spoke, as elsewhere, on the
Conquest of Spirit and Matter. He then returned to India.
In France, Prof. Marcault had visited a number of the
Lodges, and found that the audiences demanded if Theosophy
had light to throw upon political and economic problems, to
the solution of which the whole world was giving its
attention. During this year questions often arose concerning
.the activities of Mr. Krishnamurti in relation to The Society.
Many members are convinced that he is the founder of a new
civilisation, a new branch of the human tree, higher than the
present ; therefore the necessity of co-operating with him for
the diffusion of his message. Prof. Marcault pointed out that
Theosophy concerns itself with the whole tree, it gathers in
all the races, and equally the new race. The Theosophical
fraternity is mutual, not unilateral.1
The list of well-known lecturers both national and
international had become impressive. It was obvious that the
appeal of Theosophy was greater than ever, and that the
ranks of those prepared publicly to expound its principles had
greatly increased ; it meant also a public willing to listen to
and ponder the eternal Truths thus presented. The countries
which received special attention were America, S. America,
Australia, New Zealand, East Asia, England, France, the
1See B u lle tin T h eo so p h iq u e, Jan. 1935, pp. 13-4.
UNDER DR. ARUNDALES LEADERSHIP 529
Scandanavian countries, Switzerland. The membership
returns showed an upward trend.
Dr. Arundale produced three books in which he set
forth his intimate conceptions of human and spiritual values,
as interpreted in the light of Theosophy : You ; Freedom and
Friendship ; Gods in the Becoming.
1936
In continuation of the Diamond Jubilee Convention, a
series of Conferences was arranged, beginning 1 January, on
the Essential Origins of the Great Faiths : I• Hinduism, or
Sanatana Dharma, by Sir S. Radhakrishnan ; 2. Buddhism,
by Mr. Jinarajadasa ; 3. Zoroastrianism, by Mr. I. J. S.
Taraporewala ; 4. Judaism and Christianity, when papers,
were read and some speeches made.
On 1 January, the Young Theosophists discussed with
vigour and ability “ Theosophy and The Theosophical
Society in 1975.” A Parliament of Youth was held, 5
January, to discuss how “ Youth Looks at the New World ” :
I. What are we going to make of it ? ; 2. A Practical Plat­
form : How to apply it. Shrimati Rukmini, when speaking
on new Ideals for Young Theosophists, said they should
disregard prejudices of any kind and any difference in Theo­
sophical work between age and youth . . . “ Theosophy
belongs to all of us. There is no difference of age except
in the body . . . when an individual is great, he is great
in spite of his body . . . his greatness will show
forth.” 1
From 6-1 1 January a Post-Convention Week was held,
during which many subjects were discussed, including
“ The Principles of Theosophy,” and talks on the New Edu­
cation. The Theosophical Order of Service planned new ways
of service ; the Round Table met both for business and
ceremonial. Dr. Arundale presided over an Educational
1 T h e Y o u n g T h eo so p h ist, February, 1937, p. 37.
34
530 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Conference, which, with other activities, completed a heavy-
programme.
On 6 January the International Academy of the Arts
was opened. In his “ Watch-Tower ” notes for the Februaiy
Theosophist, the President said there had been already four
main interpretations of Theosophy : the interpretation of
cosmic and eternal wisdom ; of will and activity ; of the
larger science ; of individual uniqueness and self-sufficiency ;
now there was another—the interpretation through Beauty.
By April the Campaign material was ready for the use
of National Societies. The pamphlets covered a very wide
range, their general title being : “ There is a Plan ” :—for the
Kingdoms ; Humanity ; Nations ; the State ; the Individual ;
the Arts ; Science ; Education ; Religions ; for Health and
Wealth ; for the Guardians of the Plan. All were compiled
from the point of view of evolution, and selected from the
classic literature of Theosophy.
On 7 April Shrimati Rukmini laid the foundation stone
at Adyar of the International Headquarters of Young
Theosophists ; it was completed thé following year.
The President and Shrimati Rukmini Devi left 18
April, and were in Colombo on the 20th, where they address­
ed several meetings, and Dr. Arundale gave his attention
to educational work. They arrived in Amsterdam 6 May,
going direct to the Centre at Huizen. There a Workers’
Conference was arranged, for which the invitations were
issued by Mevrouw Mary van Eeghen-Boissevain, who has
made “ unexampled sacrifices for Theosophy,” and is the
“ Mother” of the Centre, upon whom responsibility rests
when the head is absent.
The President opened the new Besant Hall in London,
a “token of gratitude and constant remembrance of
Dr. Besant.” He presided over the Convention and gave the
Blavatsky Lecture on—The Foundations of Practical Occult­
ism. When in Ireland, from 8-11 June, he lectured in
Dublin, and Shrimati Rukmini spoke on “ The Message of
UNDER DR. ARUNDALES LEADERSHIP 531
Beauty to Civilization,” and received good press reports ;
there and in Belfast they met most of the members. They
attended the Northern Federation Conference at Manchester,
and left for Scandanavia, 20 June, with a small party. At
Bergen they were welcomed by the members, then they went
to Oslo and the Viggbyholm Summer School. They flew to
Finland, where an enthusiastic welcome awaited them, and a
.Summer School at Kauniainen, a suburb of Helsinki. Finnish
members seem especially to stress happiness, and reverence
for the Elder Brethren, and are staunch in their loyalty to The
Society. Denmark came next where meetings were held
both at Aarhus and Copenhagen, and then to Nakskov
for a Summer School, from which they motored direct to
Huizen.
The World Congress was held at Geneva, 29 July-4
August. It was splendidly organised by Miss Dijkgraaf,
assisted by Mr. Cochius, Mr. Tripet, General Secretary in
Switzerland, and by many others. The Congress was held
in the old General Council Hall of the League of Nations,
which has also a number of smaller rooms and large lobbies.
The Geneva municipality delegated a representative, who
was also a member of the Federal Government, to welcome
the Congress in the name of Geneva and of Switzerland ; and
a reception was given by Geneva to the Congress.
The Art Exhibition was opened by Shrimati Rukmini.
At the official opening Mr. 1 ripet, the Congress host,
Miss Dijkgraaf and Dr. Arundale, presiding, made all wel­
come. The Congress had at its disposal the electric system
by means of which each speech as it was given was rendered
into other languages by the interpreters, and reached the
audience through ear-phones. This Congress used four
Janguages—English, French, Dutch and German. Six hundred
delegates were present, representing 25 countries in 5 con­
tinents. Civil war in Spain prevented Spanish members
from attending ; and three young Portuguese had to find a
.tedious route via N. Africa, but they arrived !
532 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
The speeches were interspersed with music and songs
by talented artists. The special subject was “ Theosophy
demands Justice ” : for Individuality ; the Spiritual Needs
of the World ; Beauty ; The Spirit of Peace ; the sub-
Human Kingdoms of Nature ; Youth ; for World Faiths ;
the Nations. There were public addresses on a variety of
subjects by various General Secretaries. Shrimati Rukmini
gave two addresses which were greatly appreciated : The
Spirit of Motherhood ; and The Message of Beauty
to Civilisation. She claimed that “ Every individual has
in him the spirit of the artist . . . and artists are the
interpreters of the divine . . . They must bring before you
that which is beautiful in your own nation.”
On 3 August the Young Theosophists held a Conference,
over which Shrimati Rukmini presided, and conducted a
symposium on “ The Value of the World Federation of
Young Theosophists to The Theosophical Society.” Several
members gave direct and practical talks on their work and out­
lined their hopes for the future. In his inspiring closing address,
charged with the spirit of great occasions, the President said
that in closing the Congress he but opened “ the way in fact to
further service to our Elder Brethren in the outer world. . . .”'
The League of Nations made Congress members wel­
come at the League’s new buildings, and addresses were given
to them in English and French. The Duchess of Hamilton
and Miss Lind-af-Hageby, both so well-known for their
humanitarian work, entertained the delegates to lunch and to
speeches afterwards.
During the Congress the Swiss National Society held
its own Annual Convention ; the Russian (outside Russia)
had held one from 25-27 July. Immediately afterwards,
under the auspices of the International Centre, a Summer
School was held, 5-9 August, dedicated to Art and Beauty,
and opened by Shrimati Rukmini and Dr. Arundale.
1The addresses given at this Congress are to be found in T h e T h eo so -
p h ist beginning October, 1936.
UNDER DR. ARUNDALES LEADERSHIP 533
Seeing that the development of this, or any Society,
depends so much on adequate funds, proposals were made
by the Council of the European Federation, meeting at Geneva,
to form a Jubilee Fund for the President’s work. This
proposal has gradually shaped itself into a plan to raise
£ 100,000 for the general or specific purposes of The
Society.
As an outcome of the spirit of co-operation and under­
standing that marked the Congress, Dr. Arundale decided
that the next Campaign should be for Understanding. He
wished condemnation to be offset by appreciation of the best
in an individual or a nation. He asked Shrimati Rukmini, as
President of the World Federation of Young Theosophists,
to enlist their help throughout the world in organising the
Campaign.
Dr. and Mrs. Arundale were to have set out again on 16
September for an extensive tour in Eastern Europe, but
Mrs. Sellon, Publicity Officer, was obliged to undergo a
serious operation from the effects of which she did not re­
cover, and Dr. Arundale remained in London till she passed
away. This necessitated cancelling the early part of their
tour in Prague and Warsaw. Instead, they went direct to
Vienna, 22-26 September, where the President addressed
members on “ Gods in the Becoming”—a subject he used
throughout the tour, while Shrimati Rukmini spoke on “ The
Message of Beauty to Civilisation,” or dwelt on some aspect
of “ India’s Message to the World.”1 From 27-30 September
they paid a rare visit in Zagreb, where the National Society
is enthusiastically led by Miss Jelisava Vavra, General
Secretary since 1925. With great self-sacrifice the members
are slowly collecting a sufficient sum to secure their own
Headquarters. In Budapest, Miss F. Selever led the wel­
come to them. They visited Bucarest, Roumania, for
the first time, where the President opened a large beautiful
flat as the Headquarters for the Section. Shrimati Rukmini’s
1 T h e T h eo so p h ist, Dec. 1936, p. 186.
534 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
lecture was crowded ; and many were the interviews they
accorded, both to the members and to the public. A number
of members travelled with them as far as the frontiers of
Bulgaria. At Sofia, 8-10 October, the General Secretary,
Mr. Trifonov, gave to the President a comprehensive precisof
the growth of the Section, its difficulties and its possibilities.
The President’s work was mainly with the members, and he
officially opened the Bulgarian Convention. Shrimati Ruk-
mini’s address on “ India’s Genius in the Arts,” evoked great
enthusiasm, also in the Press. It was the first time a Presi­
dent had visited Greece, so the welcome was extremely
cordial at Athens, 12-15 October, where there were no public
engagements. From Cairo, the President intended to fly
to Karachi, but, for reasons of health, sailed instead via
Colombo, and arrived in Adyar 31 October.
The International Convention gathered at Benares, and
was well-organised by the General Secretary, G. N.
Gokhale, and his band of workers at the Section Headquarters.
In his Annual Address the President gave special thanks to the
“ very strong staff of International Lecturers who are doing
excellent work in various parts of the world.”
Unfortunately, the President was ill, and this prevented
him from appearing, except at the opening and closing
of the Convention. The lectures were : 1. Theosophy
and Psychoanalysis, by Bhagavan Das ; 2. Theosophy, the
Living Tradition, by Mrs. Ransom ; 3. Sciences, Humanities
and Brahmavidya, by Dr. Srinivasa Murti; 4. Dr. Besant’s
great Message and our Heritage, by Jamshed Nusser-
vanji; 5. The New Humanity of Intuition, by Mr. Jinaraja-
dasa. Dr. Cousins gave two addresses on Art and Literature
and pointed out how Art is emerging in the Theosophical
Movement. All the lectures took place under a great
shamiana (square tent) erected in the Headquarters’ gardens.
The Young Theosophists played their effective part, and
Shrimati Rukmini promoted the interests of the International
Academy of Arts.
UNDER DR. A R U N D A LES LEA D ERSH IP 535
After the Convention, Mr. Jinarajadasa visited Lucknow
Lodge, organised 1882, and now at last in its own building ;
Allahabad, the scene of some of the earliest history, where a
large Hall was dedicated ; Benares, Patna and Calcutta. He
left 17 February for Cochin China, lecturing at Colombo and
Singapore on the way. At Saigon he spoke in French, on
“ Buddha and His Message ” and “ Theosophy and Brother­
hood.” Thence to Java, where Mr. Hodson was successfully
at work for about six months. During Mr. Jinarajadasa’s
five weeks stay he visited the chief Lodges, meeting enthusi­
astic audiences and attending the Summer School at Kali-
Oerang. The Annual Convention at Solo (Suryakarta),
where Dutch, Javanese, Malay and Chinese members
foregathered, was held in the residence of the Prime Minister
to H. H. Prince Mangkoenagaran. Mr. Jinarajadasa visited
six other lodges ; and, besides speaking for other organisa­
tions, he visited the Normal School, where teachers are trained
for some 30 schools, conducted by Theosophists ; the General
Secretary (Mr. A. J. H. Van Leeuwen) left Government service
to take charge of it.
Mr. Jinarajadasa arrived in Sydney, 8 May, where he
began two series of lectures to capacity houses. Those
for the public covered three months, the main headings
being : 1. Theosophy and the Community ; 2. The World’s
Treasure-Houses of the Spirit—Hinduism, Buddhism
Confucianism and Taoism, Christianity ; 3. Theosophy
and the Individual. For the Blavatsky Lodge week-day
lectures, from 10 June to 2 September, he gave in 13 address­
es a consecutive course on Theosophy. After visiting the
other chief Australian Lodges he arrived back in Adyar
17 November.
This year showed a noticeable improvement in the mem­
bership of a number of National Societies, indicating that
the President’s vigorous policy had already begun to
take effect, and the Campaigns were creating a definite cur­
rent of new life and interest. Lecturers of international
536 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
repute were eagerly welcomed, and in each Section
the amount of volunteer lecture service constantly carried
on was and is beyond recounting, and deserves the highest
praise. Reports showed that in almost every National
Society the Theosophical Youth movement was gaining in
strength, and in determination to find ways of service con­
formable to its own outlook. In February the Vice-President
paid a rare and welcome visit to Burma. Bulgaria revived,
after ten years, its magazine Orpheus, confident of sufficient
support. In Jugoslavia a Lodge was chartered at Rakov
Potok with a peasant 60 years old as President, and her
grand-daughter as Secretary, and started their own magazine
to spread Theosophy through the study of the Bible. The
Central American Section said that one among its major con­
cerns was to give special attention to all initiative emanating
from Adyar, and to carry it out as fully as their possibilities
permitted, thus forming a bridge between the President and
the Lodges of the Section.
Mr. Knudsen was appointed Presidential Agent for
East Asia, and he and his wife make Shanghai their centre,
“ a better place to contact the real China than Hong Kong.”
He found that quite a promising amount of Theosophical
literature had already been translated into Chinese. An
interesting Lodge is the Blavatsky at Accra, Gold Coast,
British West Africa, composed entirely of negro members
under the presidentship of Mr. K. Brakatu Ateko. The
Round Table was now working in 36 countries.
1937
When he recovered from his illness, the President gave
his attention to Adyar, to which he sought to give new forms
by beautifying it ; and by a careful renovation of the great
Hall he made it more serviceable as well as more lovely.
In his “ Watch-Tower ’’ notes, January Theosophist, he
asked how many countries in Europe were happy ? There
UNDER DR. ARUNDALES LEADERSHIP 537
were so many negations everywhere. The Real, the True, the
Beautiful had been too long submerged ; they must fulfil
their function and torrentially sweep away all the hardened
crusts of ignorance and its concomitant, pride, which have
solidified the surface... . The world needs a renaissance. He
indicated all the panaceas for which members begged him to
stand, and to which he should commit The Society. But he
felt it his duty to try to see it “ safely through a world upheaval
which threatens to destroy so much that is civilised, and I am
advised that I can best do this by sounding as strongly as I
can the note of universal brotherhood in all its inclusiveness.”
. . . We may well bear in mind the fact that while these
expressions of individuality may sometimes cause disturb­
ance and maladjustment, they also have their value and
bear testimony to the freedom each member enjoys within
The Society.”
In the March Theosophical World, the President express­
ed his strong wish that National Societies should take the
Campaign for Understanding and apply it in particular
ways to suit the needs of the different countries. As the
result of his experiences of many countries, he had sensed the
world's greatest need to be Understanding. This Campaign
was continued on into 1938, as many felt they could with
advantage develop it more fully. The President recommend­
ed that in connection with the Campaign, from the inter­
national point of view, it would be most useful if every
Section formed a Council or Committee “ to promote Under­
standing between differences both within the nation and
between the nation and other nations.” To assist in this he
appointed residents at Adyar to be the unofficial liaison
officers between various National Societies and Headquarters.
Mr. Jinarajadasa intended to rest in Adyar for the year,
as he was to undertake a heavy tour in Latin America in
1938. He left, however, in the middle of April for Japan for a
three months’ rest trip. He intended not to give any lectures,
1The Theosophical World, June, 1937, p. 122.
538 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
but visited the Lodges at Singapore, Saigon, (where a new
Lodge was formed of members devoted to the revivifying of
Buddhism), Hongkong, Shanghai (where the group was repre­
sentative of 9 nations), and Kyoto. But the need for his help
was great, and to that he responded. He spoke to members
in each place, and in Kyoto gave one public lecture to the
Otani Buddhist University on the history of Buddhism,
translated into Japanese by Prof. Suzuki. On his return
journey he spent a longer time in Shanghai, where he gave
one public lecture and addressed the Lodge several times, and
gave a lecture on Buddhism to the “ Pure Karma Society,”
which was translated into Chinese. In both Hongkong and
Singapore he gave one public address and spoke several
times to the Lodges. From Singapore he went to Bombay,
and from there northwards on a visit to Lodges to meet
the members, though at Multan and Lahore he spoke to the
public also. He went to Jammu and Kashmir, then back
through Delhi, Agra and Gwalior and on to Nagpur, for the
Central Provinces Federation, and Indore—and so to Adyar,
19 September.
The European Congress was held in Copenhagen, 22-29
July, when about 400 delegates attended, and 17 nations were
represented! The meetings were held in the old Moltke
palace in the centre of the town. The Press gave the
Congress excellent publicity. Preparations had been
carefully made by Mr. Cochius, assisted by the General
Secretaries of the five Scandanavian nations. The special
subject of the Congress was—“ Where Science and Theosophy
Meet.” It was presided over by Prof. Marcault, whose
public lecture on Experimental Studies with Hatha Yogis in
India drew an over-crowded audience. After his lecture on
“ Electro-Biological Research and the Etheric Double,” the
Danish Metaphysical Society presented him with a bouquet.
The scientific note was strongly struck at this Congress,
especially in psychology ; and the greatest interest was in the
medical and healing sciences. There were lectures in the
UNDER DR. ARUNDALES LEADERSHIP 539
Scandanavian tongues, and the T.O.S. presented an excellent
discussion on Social work in Scandanavia, and on the Theoso-
phical contribution to Peace. Two welcome visitors who
spoke were Mr. George Lansbury and Mme Montessori,
each stressing Peace.
Prof. Marcault said of the value of these Congress, held
in different countries, that nothing is more likely to awaken
understanding, esteem and admiration than a visit to the
capital of a nation where is accumulated the best in its
civilisation. Everyone agreed that this Congress marked the
opening of a new era of progress in The Society’s work in
Scandanavia.
The South American Federation held its fifth Congress
in Argentina under the direction of the Federation President,
Sra. Julia Acevedo de La Gamma. The special note of the
Conference was Art, and the subject discussed was “ Howto
promote the cultivation of Art in the Lodges,” with a practical
demonstration by Lodge Karma Marga, which consecrates
one meeting a month to Art—particularly to music and
poetry. Experience has shown that people in these countries
find “ Art is the best means of purifying the emotions,
acquiring a full understanding of life, and at the same time a
powerful method of awakening that marvellous faculty for
synthesis, which is the Intuition.”
In the last months of the year Dr. Arundale was deeply
engaged in studying Yoga, under the direction of a Teacher,
and gave a lecture on Symbolic Yoga at the Convention. He
afterwards gave the subject still greater attention, and used his
material as the basis of roof-talks, and used it also for his
lectures and addresses during his tour in Europe and America
in 1938. It is to appear as a book, under the title : From
Man to Superman : A Practice in Symbolic Yoga.
In the August Theosophisl “ Watch-Tower,” Dr. Arundale
expressed his views on the world situation, and how a
confederation of Free States might keep the peace of the
world and restrain unruly nations from disturbing it. He
540 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
pointed out what should be the first steps to be taken by such
a Confederation ; and also the dangers of force and pride,
etc., which members of The Society should be alert to
counteract, and to apply the power and wisdom of
Theosophy to their elimination. Signor Castellani took ex­
ception to these views, from the Italian point of view. He
feared Dr. Arundale was inciting Theosophists to form a
coalition of States to oppose Italy in her expansion. He
thought a man in the position of the President should subject
his personal opinion to the neutrality of the Society.
In the December Theosophist, Dr. Arundale assured
Sr. Castellani that there could be no part of the Convention
programme which would allow him to place himself
at the head of a group of agitators to incite the world
against Italy. But he felt that he must have “ the freedom to
express his personal views in that portion of the Watch-
Tower, which, from time immemorial has been reserved to
the President as a person and not as the chief executive
officer of The Theosophical Society.”
When considering this correspondence between the
President and the Italian General Secretary, the General
Council re-asserted its opinion that every member, whether
official or not, is entitled to his personal convictions on any
topic, provided that such expression of opinion is performed
with due courtesy and without prejudice or animosity.1
*
*The Blavatsky Foundation Fund ” was started by the
President to make possible a number of cheap editions of
special classic Theosophical literature, beginning with The
Secret Doctrine, which was issued in 1938 in an “ Adyar
Edition,” also reprints of other classics.
The programmes of the Annual Conventions have for
some years become more elaborate, representing the many
interests of members, while the four chief lectures have pro­
vided the central theme or themes. This year four Symposia
took the place of lectures. They dealt with most of the
1See T h e T h eo so p h ist, Feb., p. 386.
UNDER DR. ARUNDALES LEADERSHIP 541
searching questions which members direct upon the quest
they have undertaken and their methods of carrying it out ;
How nearly to the Three Objects does The Society hold
true ? Are its activities representative of these Objects ?
In what ways can Theosophy be represented to appeal to
the individual amidst all his fears and trials ? In what ways
can Theosophy be presented through the Arts and Sciences,
to an understanding of international culture ? How to pre­
vent ourselves from being imprisoned in the forms of the
past, and how to equip youth to carry on in new and ever
more worthy and more beautiful forms ?
On 26 December Young Theosophists held their first
World Federation Convention. Shrimati Rukmini Devi was
re-elected as President, and Rohit Mehta (India) and
J. B. S. Coats (England) as Joint General Secretaries. It was
affirmed that only members of The Society were admitted to
the Federation, and that its purpose was to strengthen and
support The Theosophical Society. They thought their
greatest problem was how to present Theosophy attractively
to young people.
There were now six Incorporated Federations of Young
Theosophists: India, Australia, Burma. Europe, S. Africa,
U. S. America. The European Federation was composed of
15 National Societies : Austria, Belgium, Demark, England,
Finland, France, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Russia
outside Russia, Scotland, Sweden, Switzerland, Yugoslavia,
Wales. There were other National Societies in Canada,
Mexico, the Philippine Islands. Unsectionalised groups were
in Java, New Zealand, Roumania. Besides the official
journal, The Young Theosophist, edited by Shrimati Rukmini
Devi, with Alex. Elmore as Assistant Editor, journals were
maintained in Australia (2), Burma, Canada, Cuba, Nether­
lands, New Zealands, U. S. America.
The President said he would like to see the First
Object extended to include “ without distinction of kingdoms
of nature . . .” He pointed out how great a success the
542 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Theosophical Order of Service was in Portugal, and felt that
•every Lodge would be all the better for having a branch of
the Order connected with it. “ The neutrality of The Society
should be largely made positive and constructive " through the
Orders activities.
In India, lecturers had visited over a hundred Lodges.
Australia had entered a more settled period, and there
Mr. Hodson made a very successful tour. Under a new
arrangement with Station 2GB, Sydney, the Australian
Section reserved for its exclusive control four weekly sections
for broadcasting Theosophy. Holland broadcasted radio
lectures once a month, and celebrated its fortieth year as a
Section.
Having toured in N. Africa, Prof. Marcault thought that
Theosophy might spread there among the cultured Moslems, if
started by them and supported by Islamic study ; and it was
possible also to diffuse Theosophy among the cultured mem­
bers of Jewish communities. Some Jewish Theosophists
were willing to devote themselves to this work. Netherlands
East Indies celebrated its Silver Jubilee. It publishes
five Theosophical journals in different languages and
•directs a splendid range of Schools. Austria and Burma
also celebrated Silver Jubilees. Colombia had added three new
Lodges and received its charter, 1 December. In British East
Africa it was hoped that enough Lodges would soon be
created to form a National Society. There are Lodges in
Zanzibar, Tanganyika Territory, Kenya Colony—Nairobi and
Mombasa; these are mainly officered by Indians. Barbados
has also an out-post Lodge, in Bridgetown.
In all, 27 new charters had been issued during the
year, some of them to very young members. Under the
stimulus of youth some Lodges in several counties were
reviving to new life and vigour. As was true of so many
past years, the lecture-field had been well and nobly served,
with greater knowledge, capacity and experience to offer to
The Society in its ever-widening spheres of influence.
C O N C LU SIO N
Our Theosophical Society is the humble seed which, if watered and
let live, will finally produce the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil
which is grafted on the Tree of Life Eternal.
—H. P. B.
Hear one side and you will be in the dark, hear both sides and all
will be clear.1
R eaders who have followed this chronicle of The Theo­
sophical Society will have noted the care taken to give fairly
full lists of countries and towns visited by lecturers, and of
titles of lectures. This has been done to enable students
to trace the course of the development of The Society
throughout the world, and the subjects which were used to
explain life’s problems, to promote interest or to provoke
•enquiry. The lectures given at the Annual International
Conventions in India were for many years the chief study of
the members, and were quickly translated into many lan­
guages. No sympathetic reader but would admit that much
of the pioneer work of modern re-orientation of the outlook
in religion, sociology and science, etc., has been strongly
influenced by what may conveniently be called “ The
Theosophical point of view.” Materialism was encountered
and overcome ; separativeness has been encountered and
very slowly yields to Brotherhood ; ugliness is being en­
countered and will assuredly be replaced by Beauty.
Personal activities of leaders, and movements in which
they engaged, show the wide sweep of the Theosophical
Movement. For instance, Dr. Besant’s educational, social
1Haliburton, quoted by H. P. B. in T h e S e c r e t D o ctr in e , vol. 4,
p . 362.
544 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
and political work in India enlisted the interest of thousands
of members and brought about great changes in the country’s
progress. Incidents here and there are given, which, though
of little seeming significance at the moment, can, when
followed, be found to lead to important results.
The spirit of impartiality has in all cases been striven for,
and the pros and cons of any major event given as fairly as may
be. Here and there details have been allowed, which, more
truly than any comment or argument, showed the value of a
situation. History is made up solely of persons, their ideas,
their actions, and how these impress others and influence
and direct their lives. Therefore the actors, as they come
and go—or stay, finding their life’s work in The Society—
have been allowed to express themselves, and the results are
shown in the activities and development of The Society, and
the reactions of the world to The Society.
Care has been taken to observe Dr. Arundale’s wish to
let “ bygones be bygones,” but some situations demanded
frank and clear treatment, if they were to be understood at
a ll; and it was necessary to give some attention to the
temperaments and outlook of the characters on the stage at
the moment. They made the history.
The times of “ crisis ” within the Society reveal interest­
ing and important struggles for liberty, for that freedom of
thought, speech and action which it cherishes as one of its
highest ideals. In each crisis The Society has discovered a
new aspect of Freedom, a new pleasure in Tolerance, a more
understanding application of Brotherhood.
It is with confidence, therefore, that this History is pre­
sented, in the hope that it will give insight into a great Move­
ment which cannot be measured by statistics, which has
profoundly affected thought for the past 63 years, and will
evidently go on doing so in the years to come ; for, as
Dr. Besant said : “ It is true that The Theosophical Society
is not a stone image carved in 1891, but a living tree, put­
ting forth new branches and new leaves.”
O B JE C T S AND B U L E S OE
T H E T H E O SO P H IC A L S O C IE T Y
1875. B y - L a w s
C h a pt e r i
The title of the society is “ T he T heo so phical S ociety."
C hapter ii
The objects of the society are, to collect and diffuse a knowledge of
the laws which govern the universe.
S cra p b o o k , /, p. 71 ; G o ld en B oo k , P- 23.
R u le s, 30 October
C h a p t e r v
Rule 1. The officers of The Society shall be a President, 2 Vice-
Presidents, a Corresponding Secretary, a Recording Secretary and a
Librarian, Treasurer and 5 Councillors, and these officers together shall
form the Council of the Society.
Rule 2. The officers of the Society shall be chosen from among its
fellows : they shall be elected annually by ballot, and shall hold their
offices until others are elected in their places.
Rule 4. No Fellow shall at the same time hold 2 offices in the
Society.
1877. R ules : President’s P owers
In the 1896 R ep o r t (p. 5) Col. Olcott quotes a meeting held at 302,
West 47th St., N.Y., 16July, settling the President’s discretionary powers
to authorise Branches, and the transference of Headquarters.
1878. R ules
Col. Olcott mentions a meeting, 27 Aug., at which it was decided
“ he shall also have full power and discretion to make such rules
and regulations, and do such things as he may consider necessary for the
welfare of the Society, and the accomplishment of the objects which it
represents. All Bye-Laws inconsistent with the above are hereby
repealed. (See 1896 G en er a l R ep o r t).
35
546 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
C i r c u l a r printed for the Information of Correspondents, 3rd May :
III. At first The Society was an open body, but later it was re­
organised on the principle of secrecy, experience having demonstrated the
advisability of such a change.
IV. Its fellows are known as Active, Corresponding and Honorary.
Only those are admitted who are in sympathy with its objects, and
sincerely desire to aid in the promotion of the same.
V. Its Fellowship is divided into three Sections and each Section
into three Degrees . . .
VI. The objects of the Society are various . . . to acquire an
intimate knowledge of natural law . . . study to develop his latent
powers . . . exemplify the highest morality and religious aspiration . . .
to make known among Western nations . . . f a c t s about oriental religi­
ous philosophies . . . disseminate a knowledge of that pure esoteric
system of the archaic period, and finally and chiefly, aid in the institution
of a Brotherhood of Humanity . . . of every race.
VIII. There are branches of the Parent Society in several countries
of the East and West.
S cra p b o o k , I ; G o ld en B o o k , P- 26.
1879. R u l e s
The first re-draft of Rules was made at Bombay, end of March and
early April, and issued as an Appendix to Col. Olcott's first Indian lecture.
The second and most extensive revision of the Rules took place at
Benares in December, as follows :
The Theosophical Society or Universal Brotherhood. Formed at
New York, U.S.A., 30 Oct., 1875.
Principles, Rules and Bye-laws, as revised in the General Council at
the meeting held at the Palace of H. H. the Maharaja of Vizianagram,
Benares, 17 Dec., 1879.
I. The Theosophical Society is formed upon the basis of a Univer­
sal Brotherhood of Humanity . . . A Branch may be composed solely of
co-religionists . . .
II. The whole Society is under the special care of one General
Council and of the President of the Theosophical Society, its Founder,
who is himself subject to the authority of a Supreme Council representing
the highest Section of the Society.
III. . . . the Theosophical Society, whose Headquarters are forthe
time beingin that locality where the President-Founder may be.
V. Three members of the General Council form a quorum in all
cases.
VI. It is not lawful for any officer of the Parent Society1to express
by word or act, any hostility to, or preference for, any one Section.
1“ Parent Society ” meant those who had not joined a Branch.
OBJECTS AND RULES OF THE T. S. 547
. . . And no officer of the Society, in his capacity as an officer, has the
right to preach his own Sectarian views and beliefs to members assem­
bled, except when the meeting consists of his co-religionists . . .
Violation to be punished with suspension or expulsion . . .
VII. The President-Founder has authority to designate any Fellow
of capacity and good repute to perform, p r o tem p o r e, the duties of any
office . . . He is also empowered and required to define the duties of
all officers, and assign specific responsibilities to Members of the General
Council, not in conflict with the general plans of the Society.
VIII. The Society's plans are declared to be as follows :
(a) To keep alive in man his spiritual intuitions . . .
(b) To oppose and counteract—after due investigation and proof
of its irrational nature—bigotry in every form . . .
(c) To promote a f e e l i n g o f B r o th e r h o o d among nations . . .
(d) To seek to obtain knowledge of all the laws of Nature and aid
in diffusing it; and especially to encourage the study of those laws least
understood by modern people and so termed the Occult Sciences.
(e) To gather for the Society’s library and put intowritten forms
correct information on ancient philosophies, etc.
(/) To promote in every practicable way non-sectarian educa­
tion . , .
(g) . . . chiefly, to encourage and assist individual Fellows in self-
improvement, intellectual, moral and spiritual.
X. The Parent Society, through the President-Founder, has the
right to nullify any Charter for cause, and to decree the expulsion of any
Fellow of whatever Branch, for disgraceful conduct or the contumacious
violation of the bye-laws or rules . . . None to be expelled without given
opportunity for explanation . . .
XI. The Society consists of three Sections. The highest or First
Section is composed exclusively of proficients or initiates in Esoteric
Science and Philosophy, who take a deep interest in the Society’s affairs
and instruct the President-Founder how best to regulate them, but whom
none but such as they voluntarily communicate with, have the right to
know.
XIV. . . . Two Fellows must endorse the new candidate's applica­
tion . . . After three weeks he shall be invested with the signs, words or
tokens of the third (probationary) Section . . . repeating before witnesses
that he will neither reveal them to any improper person, nor divulge any
other matter or thing relating to the Society, especially its experiments in
Occult Sciences, which it is forbidden to disclose.
O b l i g a t i o n
1 . . . an applicant for fellowship in the T . . . S . . . do hereby
give to the President individually, and to each and every one who is now
548 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
or may be accepted hereafter as a Fellow of the above Society, my most
solemn and sacred promise that whatsoever information connected with
the legitimate philosophical work or researches of the Society may be
communicated to me, as a member of the Society, with an intimation that
it must not be revealed, 1 will faithfully keep secret, allowing no one,
under any pretext, or by any threat or promise, to extort the same from
me. For the faithful performance of this promise, I do hereby, in the pre­
sence of these witnesses, pledge my word o f honour.
The Theosophist, June, 188!, Supplement.
1880. R u l e s
Rules of 1879 are re-affirmed—“ defining joint guardianship of
the General Council and the President over the whole Society.”
1881. O b j e c t s
Revised 17 February, Bombay :
1. To form the Nucleus of a Universal Brotherhood of Humanity.
2. To study Aryan literature, religion and science.
3. To vindicate the importance of this enquiry and correct mis­
representations with which it has been clouded.
4. To explore the hidden mysteries of Nature and the latent powers
of Man, on which the Founders believe that Oriental Philosophy
is in a position to throw light.
The Theosophist, June, 1881, Supplement.
R u l e s
“ Third revision (of Rules) was made 17 Feb. 1881, in The General
Council at Bombay." (See /596 Report, p. 9.)
5. By unanimous vote of the Council of Founders, the President and
Corresponding Secretary—both Founders—hold office for life.
The term of all other officers is for 1 year, or until their suc­
cessors are appointed by the President-Founder.
8 and 9. Parent Society still mentioned, but not defined.
See The Theosophist, June, 1881, Supplement.
1885
Initiation ceremony and secret membership omitted from Revised
Rules.
See General Report, p. 68.
1886. O b j e c t s
1. To form the nucleus of a Universal Brotherhood of Humanity,
without distinction of race, creed or colour.
2. To promote the study of Aryan and other Eastern literatures,
religions and sciences.
OBJECTS AND RULES OF THE T. S. 549
3. A third object, pursued by a portion of the members ofthe Society,
is to investigate unexplained laws ofnature and the psychical
powers of man.
See G e n e r a l R ep o r t, p. 78.
R u l e s
19. Membership is open to persons without distinction of sex, race,
creed or caste ; but no Asiatic female and no person under 18
shall be admitted . . . without the consent of legal guardian.
20. Fellows are of three classes, oiz. Corresponding, Honorary and
Active.
24. A member cannot belong to more than one Branch at a time.
25. The Society . . . does not permit its members a s s u ch to interfere
with politics.
26. The Society being formed on a basis of Universal Brotherhood
inculcates perfect tolerance.
27. No Fellow shall slander any Theosophist.
1886
“ Executive authority of President superseded and Rule 14 adopted.”
General control and administration of the Society shall vest in one
General Council.
See G e n e r a l R ep o r t, p. 46.
1887
At Convention (December), Revision of Rule 15, (6) and (c), r e a
Budget being submitted tothe Executive, also an income and expenditure
account quarterly.
R e p o r t o f C o m m ittee o n R u le s , p. 33.
Rule 2. H. P. B. wrote (in 1886) that the present Rules and Statues
“ grew out ” of the rapid increase of the Society. “They are not the out­
come of the deliberate thought and whim ofthe President-Founder, but the
result of the yearly meetings of the General Council."
See T h e T h eo so p h ist, June, 1924, p. 389.
1 8 8 8 . O b j e c t s
1. To form th e nucleus o f a Universal Brotherhood of Humanity,
without distinction of race, creed, sex , ca s te o r colour.
2. To promote the study of Aryan and other Eastern literatures,
religions, p h ilo s o p h ie s and sciences.
3. A third object, pursued by a portion of the Fellows of the Society,
is to investigate unexplained laws of nature and the psychic
powers of man.
(The Fellows interested in this third object now form a distinct
private division of the Society under the direction ofthe Corresponding
Secretary.)
550 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
R u l e s
There is different wording of the remainder of Section A, but much
the same ideas, except that “ love of India and revival of her ancient
glories ” is dropped out.
Section B. Arrangement and numbering now completely different.
4. Fellowship ; the word “ ward " is used intead of “Asiatic female.”
There is added: “ The onlysine qua non toadmission is sympathy
with the objects and willingness to abide by the Rules.”
12. “ No Fellow shall be on roll of active members of more than one
Branch at once.”
Important Revision ; see explanation on p. 43 el seq. in General
Report ; and Rules, p. 53, et seq.
President restored to much of his former discretionary power.
Distinction between Fellowship of T. S. and Membership of a
Branch or Section.
Term “ Parent Society ” no longer used.
Annual Dues and Entrance Fees abolished in favour of voluntary
contributions.
“ Apparent antagonism between esoteric and exoteric aspects of The
Society removed by formation—by Order in Council—of Esoteric Section.”
“ Nearly four years trial of Presidential authority ‘ in commission ’
having failed to vindicate the innovation fully justifies return to status
quo ante.'
Territorial administration of Sections.
Section ] . —Publication : The public shall be made acquainted with
the objects and principles of the Society through oral and literary
agencies ; but the impartiality of the Society . . . shall not be com­
promised in any publication.
C o n v en tio n . President cites the Resolution of Council, 27 August
1876, that . . . the President shall have full power, etc. (as above) and
mentions the change made in 1886 . . .
Section G. “The President shall be the chief Executive Officer of
the Society. He shall be responsible for the due performance of his duties
to the General Council from whom he derives his authority.”
General Report, pp. 4-5 ; Rules, p. 59,
1890. O b j e c t s :
1. To form the nucleus of a Universal Brotherhood of Humanity,
without distinction of race, creed, sex, caste or colour.
2. To promote the study of Aryan and other Eastern literatures,
religions, philosophies and sciences, and to demonstrate their
importance to Humanity.
3. To investigate unexplained laws of Nature and the psychic powers
latent in man.
OBJECTS AND RULES OF THE T. S. 551
R u le s Revised in December at Convention.
“ Sections ” become Articles.
Art. II, shortened from I7 to 8 Rules.
Art. III. 14 Rules, comprising former Sections C. and F. 5 Fellows
may receive Charter for Branch ; but 7 Branches still necessary to form a
Section.
Art. IV. President shall have the right to appoint his successor subject
to ratification by 2/3 majority vote of Sections.
Art. V. General Council simplified ; no longer divided into sections
corresponding to territorial Sections of T.S.
Art. VI. President shall have discretionary powers in all matters not
herein specifically provided for, and is—
as before—“ responsible to the
General Council . . ."
The President may be deprived of office for cause shown . . * on
3/4 vote of General Council, provided that opportunity has been given him
to disprove any charges brought against him. (Procedure set out in full).
Deleted : President's Council (advisory) “ to assist him in the
performance of his official duties."
1893. R ules
“ During the past year the General Council has carefully revised the
Rules . . . the only radical alteration has been in the terms of the
Presidential office, which we have fixed at seven years.”
General Report, President’s Address, p. 14.
1894. Objects
2. To promote the study of Aryan and other Eastern literatures,
religions, philosophies and sciences, and to demonstrate the
importance ofthat study.
R ules
Art. IV. Rule 2, provides that sections have one additional vote
for each 230 “ paid up” membership, in addition to its vote as a Section.
Art. IV. The President could apppoint his successor.
Art. VI. reads that the President can be deprived of office lor cause
shown by a “3/4 vote of the Judicial Committee hereinafter provided for
. . .” With further instructions on the constitution and membership of
the Judicial Committee.
(Vice-President has only one vote, even if also a General Secretary).
Art. VIII. Headquarters is now vested in Trustees, acting under the
Trust Deed of 1892.
1896. O bjects :
I. To form a nucleus of the Universal Brotherhood of Humanity,
without distinction of race, creed, sex, caste or colour.
552 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
2. To encourage the study of comparative religion, philosophy and
science.
3. To investigate unexplained laws of Nature and the powers latent
in man.
1896. R ules
These revised Rules are dated 9 July, 1896.
Very marked alterations in the “ set out ” of the Rules after revision,
instead of 13 long articles as formerly ; the reduction is from8 pages to 2.
There are now 32 short Rules, under headings : Constitution,
Membership, Officers, Organisation, Administration, Election of President,
Headquarters, Finance, Meetings, Revision.
E x e c u t i v e N o t i c e , London, 9 July :
•The undersigned [H. S. O.] publishes for the information of mem­
bers the text of Rules revised and adopted this day. Only one important
recommendation was rejected—that for removing the President and
V.-President of T. S. for cause shown. On mature consideration it was
decided that no rule could be of use if such an emergency arose. . . .
The undersigned takes this opportuuity of correcting the mistaken idea,
which prevails in some quarters, that the T. S. Rules and wording of the
“ Objects ” are substantially what they have been from the commence­
ment and therefore entitled to some special immunity from change. So
far is this from true, that the “ Objects ” have been re-stated and the
Rules altered several times, as the growth of the Society and its altered
conditions rendered the same necessary.
Lucifer, x v i i i , pp. 513-6, with Rules on opposite page.
Membership. Omits the three grades of Fellowship—Active, Corres­
ponding and Honorary, and simplifies from 8 to 2 paras.
O fficers. The “ex-officio Secretaries ” deleted.
Organisation. Seven members the minimum for Charter.
Jl¿ministration. No person can hold two offices on General Council.
Election o f President. Procedure defined . . . " Successor to be nomi­
nated by General Council.”
1905. R u l e s
The Society was Incorporated this year. The Objects remain­
ed as before, but the Rules underwent revision. See the Rules and
Regulations of the Association named The Theosophical Society, pre­
faced by the Articles of Association. The Objects have not since been
altered, but the Rules have undergone a certain amount of revision.
1908. R ules
Liberty of Thought re-affirmed.
OBJECTS AND RULES OF THE T. S. 553
The General Council decided “ that Rules and Regulations be brought
up to date, and that words no longer in force owing to the passing of'the
President-Founder be omitted.
The word “ Section ” changed to “ National Society ” . . . and the
term “ Lodge " for “ Branch ” restored.
G en er a l R ep o rt, p. 110.
1 9 2 6 . R u l e s
Rule 44. Changes are made concerning property, to prevent loss to
The Society upon lapse of a Lodge or a Section.
1 9 3 1 . R u l e s
Necessity for two sponsors abolished. Applicants for membership
simply sign the authorised form.
1 9 3 3 . R ules
Rule 10. Now reads that the Presidential candidate receiving the
greatest number of votes shall be declared elected to the office of Presi­
dent.
1 9 3 4 . R u l e s
Rule 3. It shall be competent for the General Council to remove any
of its members, or any officer of the Society, excepting the President of
the Theosophical Society and the General Secretaries of National Societies,
by a three-fourth majority of its number of members . . . the quorum
consisting however of not less than five members.
Previously the Rule had been—“ or any officer of the Society,”
without any exceptions.
N A TIO N A L S O C IE T IE S
IN CHRONOLOC1CAL SEQ UEN CE W IT H D A TE OF C H A R T E R
United States of America 1886
England 1888
India 1891
Australia 1895
Sweden 1895
New Zealand 1896
Netherlands 1897
France 1899
Italy 1902
Germany 1 1902
Cuba 1905
Hungary 1907
Finland 1907
Russia 1908
Czechoslovakia 1909
South Africa 1909
Scotland 1910
Switzerland 1910
Belgium 1911
Netherlands-Indies 1912
Burma 1912
Austria 1912
Norway 1913
Egypt2 1918
Denmark 1918
1Dissolved 1935.
J Presidential Agent.
Ireland 1919
Mexico 19)9
Canada 1919
Argentina 1
920
Chile 1920
Brazil 1920
Bulgaria 1920
Iceland 1921
Spain 1921
Portugal 1921
Wales 1922
Poland 1923
Uruguay 1925
Puerto Rico 1925
Rumania 1925
Yugoslavia 1925
Ceylon 1926
Greece 1928
Central America 1929
Central South Africa 1929
Paraguay:t 1929
Peru' 1929
Philippine Islands 1933
Colombia 1937
■
! Presidential Agent.
4Presidential Agent.
ACTIVITIES UNDERTAKEN OR PROMOTED BY MEMBERS
OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
(This is only a partial list, which may be added to by those under­
taking the research, purely Theosophical interests have not been included,
and they are mostly mentioned in the text of the H istory.
ACTIVITIES UNDERTAKEN OR PROMOTED 555
1879. Exhibition of Fine Arts. School of Industries established,
Bombay. Aryan Temperance Society, Bombay.
1881. First Buddhist School, Ceylon.
1882. Aryan Forefathers Society founded, and establishes 5 Schools,
3 for boys, 2 for girls.
1883. Schools established: 1 Anglo-Sanskrit, I Anglo-vernacular,
1 Hindu. 6 Night Schools for labourers, 7 Sanskrit, 4 Sunday, or Religious,
6 other Schools, 2 Girls’ Schools, etc.
1884. Collections for Famine Relief. Homoeopathic Dispensaries at
Bombay and Bareilly. Vaidic Hospital, Lucknow. Schools : 10 Sanskrit,
2 Vaidic, 1Night School, 1Anglo-Sanskrit-Bengalee, and 3 other schools.
Aryan Leagues of Honour (Boys).
1885. Theosophical Publication Fund, for translations of Sanskrit
and vernacular works into English. White Lotus Association, Lucknow.
Hindu Prakasika Sabha, Maheswaran. Homoeopathic Dispensary,
Jubbulpur. Sanmarga (Path of Truth) Sabha. Sanskrit Colleges at
Tallur and Vizianagram. 1Sanskrit School, I Sanskrit College. I Hindu
Girls’ School. 3 Sunday Schools for Hindu boys.
1886. Adyar Library. English day school, Colombo. Homoeopathic
Dispensary, Hoshangabad. Hindu Janobanratha Sabha, 3 Sanmarga
Sabhas. 2 Sanskrit Schools. 3 Sunday Schools. Theosophical Co­
operative Association.
1887. Sanmarga Samaj, Bellary. Bal Sabha. 1 Buddhist School,
Ceylon. 1 English School, Ceylon. 2 Charitable Dispensaries. Free
distribution of food, blankets and medicines. Purity Alliance and Mitra
Bilas, for Hindus and Mohammedans. Sabha for protection of cows.
6 Schools : boys, girls, and infants.
1888. Free distribution of food and medicines. 1Sanskrit School.
2 Vernacular Schools, Ceylon. Hindu Girls’ Schools.
1890. Aryan Press, in charge of John M. Pryse (U.S.A.); Blavatsky
Press, London, in charge of James Pryse. Bow Club for Working Girls,
founded by H.P.B. Christo-Theosophical Society. 5 Buddhist Girls
Schools. Wilhelmina Caterina Theosophical School, Amsterdam.
1891. League of Theosophical Workers. Working Women's Club,
Bow, London. Theosophical Research Society. 3 Schools in Ceylon.
Industrial School Kandy. Sanghamitta Girls’ School, Ceylon. Theo­
sophical Research Society, Melbourne.
1892. Lotus Circle, New York. 13 Schools, Sinhalese and
vernacular, Ceylon.
556 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
1893. Hindu Boys Association. Lotus Club for Men, London.
Washerwomen's League, London. Creches, soup kitchens, sewing and
debating classes, Sunday classes and Girls' Guilds established. Musaeus
School (and Orphanage) for Buddhist Girls, Colombo.
1894. ‘‘ Hands across the Sea,” International Correspondence
League. Pariah Schools started by Col. Olcott. Young Men’s Arya
Union, Calcutta. H.P.B. Sanskrit School, Jullundur.
1893. Ananda Buddhist College. Many Buddhist Schools now
established in Ceylon. Anglo-Sanskrit School, Bankipur.
1896. Famine Relief Committees, India. Pariah School, Madras.
1897. Kandy T.S. has 30 Schools. Ceylon has 105 Schools under
The Society’s Supervision.
1898. Central Hindu College, Benares. H.P.B. School, Madras.
1899. Golden Chain. Damodar Free School opened.
1901. Tiravallur School, Madras. Women’s Educational League,
Adyar.
1902. Universal Co-Freemasonry vigorously promotedby Mrs. Besant,
and T.S. members.
1903. Sanatana Dharma Examination, founded by D. M. Goculdas
and K. M. Shroff.
1904. Buddhist Young Men's Union, Galle, Ceylon.
1905. Schools at Delhi and Lahore affiliated. Olcott Panchama
Free Schools incorporated.
1906. Famine Relief Fund. Charity Dispensary, Srinagar. Jhânsi
Orphanage.
1907. Adyar Dispensary. Association for Research in Mystic
Tradition. Bureau of Theosophical Activities. Olcott Teachers’
Association.
1908. Theosophical Order of Service. Sons of India. Daughters of
India. Bureau of Theosophical Activities. Round Table.
1909. Braille League. League against Vaccination, Vivisection, etc.
Corespondence League, New York.
1910. Order of the Rising Sun, India. Philosophic Society, Geneva.
1911. Order of the Star in the East. Distressed Indian Students
Aid Committee. Young People’s Association, Finland. Arts and Crafts
Guild, New Zealand. Much educational work :—6new Buddhist Schools ;
total now 220 ; 4 new schools in Burma.
1912. Temple of the Rosy Cross. Order of Theosophical Sannyâsis.
T. O. S. very active : Preparation League of Healers, Redemption
ACTIVITIES UNDERTAKEN OR PROMOTED 557
League, Humane Research League. League of St. Christopher, Prayer
League, Poor Children’s Clothing League, Education League, Servers of
the Blind, League for Daily Meditation, League of the Seven M's, Java,
(Temperance). Friends of India. Science, Religion and Art Leagues,
U.S.A. Imperial Services League of modern Thought, England.
1913. Theosophical Educational Trust Incorporated. Order of
World Peace, Holland. Esperanto League. League to Help the
Women’s Movement. Guild of the Mysteries of God. Circle of Prayer.
Peace, Education, and Theosophical Propaganda Leagues, Belgium.
Much Educational work, India and Ceylon. Brotherhood of Arts, later be­
came International Fellowship of Arts and Crafts.
1914. Theosophical Bank Ltd., Finland. Thinkers’ League of Sailors,
England. Various Leagues, Java. Young Mens’ Indian Association.
Educational : 4 schools handed over to T. E. T., Burma ; 5 new Buddhist
Schools, Ceylon.
1915. Arts League (Adyar). Theosophical Educational Society, U.S.A.
Home Rule League, India. T. E. T. has 18 educational institutions under
its control, India. Madanapalle College, India. Letchworth School,
England. Madras Parliament formed by Mrs. Besant. League of Parents
and Teachers. International High School for Philosophy, Amersfoort,
Holland. First Red Cross Circle in N. S. W. Theosophical Fraternity in
Education, Eng.
1916. Brotherhood of Arts. Pioneer Movement (training for Service).
Women’s College, Benares. The Young Age (help in hospitals, prisons,
etc.). Theosophical Fraternity in Education, Eng. East End Reading Room,
London. Workers Educational Union. House-holders’ War League of
Thought. Liberal Catholic Church. Many Bureaux in U.S.A. T.O.S.
groups : Braille Postal Mission; Correspondence ; Music ; Mystic
Drama ; Prison work, etc. Inter-Collegiate Theosophical Club, U.S.A.
1917. Fraternity of Art, France. Womens’ Indian Association.
Servants of the Star. Brothers of Service. Society for the Promotion of
National Education. T.O.S. in Russia : Circle of Servers. Animal and
Bird Protection Association ; Fraternity in Education, India. The Civil
Ambulance, started by F.T.S., and Civic Association, inaugurated by
F.T.S. Sydney. Lotus Bureau, U.S.A. Brackenhill Theosophical Home,
England.
1918. Bande Islam (under Theosophical influence). International
School for Philosophy. Hindu University : College of Science in Madras,
College of Agriculture in Adyar. S.P.N.E. and T.E.T. amalgamate.
Boy Scout Movement in India, organised by Mrs. Besant. Press League,
Australia. Theosophical School, Krotona, Calif. Vasanta Garden School,
558 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
New Zealand. Morven Garden School, Sydney. Britain and India
League, England.
1919. International Correspondence League. International Fraternity
in Education, England. T.O.S. in Belgium, Leagues of Helping, 40
Groups. Theosophical Fraternity in Nursing, England. Order of Field
Servers, U.S.A., to supply speakers for Lodges. Theosophical School
and College, Auckland, N. Z. Training College for Teachers, Adyar.
Sydney, N.S.W. members actively foster Vegetarian Movement, Crema­
tion Society, Health Society, Free Kindergartens. Belgium : The Theo­
sophical Society joined with others to form Federation des Societies des
Culture Morale. Theatre Arts Alliance. Krotona.
1920. Society of the Starry Cross. Fellowship of Teachers. Karma
and Reincarnation League, U.S.A. Rose-Cross Finnish Occult Society.
Practical Idealists Movement, Holland.
1921. T.O.S. many Groups in Europe, Java, etc. Political Clubs,
India. New Education Fellowship.
1922. Brahmavidyashrama opened ; Theosophical Workers Co-
Operative Credit Society, Adyar.
1923. Young Theosophist movement begins, India. T. S. Muslim
League. T.O.S. now working in “ 22 additional countries.” T h eo so p h en -
h eim established. Vienna.
1924. Young Theosophists, India, inaugurate Health Week, Food
Relief, First Aid to Pilgrims.
1925. Theosophical World University. Educational Work in China,
Besant School for Girls established. Theosophical Lyceum, Hilversum,
Holland. Theosophical Home for Aged Gentlewomen, Brisbane Lodge.
Bhárata Samáj, Adyar.
1926. 2GB established, Sydney. Fraternidade, Portugal. Australia-
India League. Besant Academy for the People, China. Theosophical
News Bureau, London. Association of Hebrew Theosophists. Youth
Movement, Ceylon.
1927. International League of Theosophist Doctors. Theosophical
Medical League.
1928. China : 3 Theosophical Evening Free Schools for Boys, and a
free vernacular school for Girls. Various movements for Temperance
and for Intellectual Studies supported, Czechoslovakia. Women’s Welfare
Trust. Kashmir.
1929. “Advance Australia" News Service. Roumanian members
support various public movements ; and the same in Ceylon and Brazil.
1930. The Guild of Australian Motherhood.
BIBLIOGRAPHY 559
1931. Adyar Baby Welcome. Support for Peace Movement, Mexico.
Healing of Nations, Yugoslavia.
1932. Medical Group for Healing, Poland. Humanitarian League,
Rangoon. “ Peace Week ” in Geneva. Pemitram Tjahja (Friends of the
Light) to help poor people to understand Theosophy, Java. Bellamy Club,
Holland and S. Africa. Native Welfare, S. Africa. Medical Group for
Healing, Poland. Humanitarian League, Burma.
1933. Brotherhood Federation. Society for Radio Propaganda,
Holland, Greater America Plan, U.S.A.
1934. Besant Memorial School, Adyar. Children's Circle and Ladies’
Club, Helsinki.
1933. L’Entre’aide Theosophique, France. First Animal Welfare
Society, Japan.
1936. International Academy of the Arts, Adyar. Youth Movement,
Italy. Theosophical Radio Station, Luz de Valle Lodge, Colombia.
Livraria Encyclopedica Internacional, Brazil, to promote translation of
Theosophical literature.
1937. Philippine Theosophical Institute.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
ACARWAL, h . N. (c o m p ile d b y )
Reminiscences o f Col. H. S. Olcoll. Adyar T.P.H., 1932.
bark er, a. Trevor (compiled by)
Letters o f H. P. Blavatsky to A. P . Sinnelt, London. Fisher Unwin
1925.
Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnelt, The. London. Rider &Co., 1930.,
BE N N E TT , ED W A RD T .
Spiritualism. London and Edinburgh. T. C. and E. C. Jack, 1909.
BE SA N T, ANNIE,
How India Wrought fo r Freedom. Adyar. T.P.H., 1915.
Inner Government o f the World, The, Adyar. T.P.H., 1930.
Masters, The, Adyar. The Theosophist Office, 1912.
Occult Hierarchy, The, (pamphlet). Adyar. T, P. H. 1915.
Real and the Unreal, The, Adyar. T.P.H., 1923.
Tal^s with a Class, Madras. T.P.H., 1921.
While Lodge and Its Messengers, The, Adyar. T.P.H., (pamphlet) 1931.
BE SA N T, A . AND LE A D B E A T E R , C . W .
Man : Whence, How and Whither. Adyar, T. P. H. 1913.
Occult Chemistry. London. T. P. H. Revised ed. 1909.
Path o f Occultism, Talks on the, Adyar. T. P. H. 2nd. ed. 1930.
560 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
BLA V A TSK Y , H F.LEN A PE TRO V N A
I s is U n v eiled . New York. J. W. Bouton. 1886.
S e c r e t D o ctrin e, T h e, London. T. P. S. 1888.
T h eo so p h y , T h e K e y to, London. T. P. H. 1889.
B R A ID , JA M E S
H y p n o tism , B r a id on ; N e u r y p n o lo g y , London. George Redway. 1899.
T r a n ce O b ser v a tio n s, on , Edinburgh. Black. 1850.
B R IC H T , E STH E R
B csa n t, A n n ie, O ld M em o ries a n d L etters o f, London. T. P. H. 1936.
B R IT T E N , E M M A HARD IN G E
N in eteen th C en tu r y M ir a cles, New York. Wra. Britten, Lovell & Co.
1st ed. 1884.
C L E A T H E R , A LIC E L.
H . P . B la v a tsk y , o s I k n ew H er, Calcutta. Thacker Spink & Co. 1923.
H . P . B la v a tsk y , H er L ife a n d W ork ■ Calcutta. Thacker Spink & Co.
1922.
CORSON, EUGENE R O LLIN , B .S ., M .D .
H . P . B la v a tsk y , S o m e U n p u b lish ed L etters o f, London. Rider & Co.
CO U ES. D R . E LLIO TT
H . P . B la v a tsk y , H is L etters to, N. Y. Published by W. Q. Judge.
1889.
C U R T IN , JE R E M IA H
M o n g o ls in R u ssia , T h e, London. Sampson, Low, Marston & Co. 1908.
GOODWIN, N A T H A N IE L
D escen d a n ts o f T h o m a s O lco tt, T h e, Albany, N. Y. J. Munsell. Revised,
with additions by H.S.O., 1874.
C R IB B L E , J. D . B . ,
R ep o r t o f E x a m in a tion in to B la v a ts k y C o r r esp o n d en ce, Madras. Publish­
edin The Christian College Magazine. Higginbotham & Co., 1884.
H A STIN G S, BE A TR IC E
Voi. I. D e fe n c e o f M a d a m e B la v a tsk y ,
Voi. 11. C o u lo m b P a m p h lets , T h e, Worthing. Hastings Press, 1937.
H U M E , a . o .
E so ter ic T h eo so p h y , H in ts on , Benares. T.P.S., 1882. Reprinted 1909.
JIN A R A JA D A SA , C .
D id M a d a m e B la v a ts k y F o r g e th e M a h a tm a L etters ? Adyar, T.P.H.
T h e G o ld en B o o k o f th e T .S ., Adyar, T.P.H. 1925.
L etters fr o m th e M a sters o f W isd om . Transcribed by C. J. Adyar.
T.P.H., Series I and 2, 1919 and 1925.
P e r so n a lity o f H . P . B la v a ts k y T h e, Adyar, T.P.H. 1930.
K A RD E C, A LLA N
S p irits B o o k , T h e, London, George Redway, 1888. (Trans, by Anna
Blackwell from 1857 ed.)
BIBLIOGRAPHY 561
K IN CSLA N D , W IL L IA M
H . P . B la o a tsk y , T h e R ea l, London. J. M. Watkins, 1928. 1st ed.
W as S h e a C h a rla ta n ? London. Blavatsky Association, 1922.
K U LY A R , SIV A N A N D A N PR A SA D
S w a m i D a y a n a n d S a ra sw a ti. Madras. Ganesh & Co., 1914.
L E A D B E A T E R , C . W .
A stra l P la n e , T h e, London, T.P.S., 1895.
A u stra lia a n d N ew Z e a la n d a s th e H o m e o f th e N ew S u b -R a ce . Sydney,
Batson & Co., Ltd., 1915.
H o w T h e o s o p h y C a m e to M e. Adyar. T.P.H., 1930.
M a s te r s a n d th e P a th , T h e, Adyar. T.P.H., 1925.
M A R R Y A T , FLO RE N CE
S p ir it W orld , T h e, London. F. V. White & Co., 1894.
T h e r e is n o D ea th , London. Griffith Farran & Co., new ed., 1891.
M OSES, STA IN TO N ( m .A . Oxon.)
S p ir it T e a c h in g s. London. L. S. A. 5th ed. 1904.
N A RIM A N , C . K.
S a n sk r it B u d d h ism , Bombay. Indian Book Depot. 2nd. Imp. 1923.
N E FF, M A R Y K.
P e r s o n a l M em o irs o f H . P . B la o a tsk y , London. Rider &Co., 1937.
“ T h e B r o th e r s ” o f H . P . B la o a tsk y . Adyar. T.P.H., 1932.
OLCO TT, H E N R Y ST E E L
O ld D ia r y L ea o es, Vol. i. London. G. Putnams’ Sons. 1895.
O ld D ia r y L e a v e s, Vols. ii-vi. Adyar. T. P. H. 1935 ed.
P e o p le f r o m A n o th er W orld , Hartford. Conn. American Pub. Co. 1875.
S o r g h o a n d I m p h e e : T h e N ew S u g a r C a n es, New York. A. O. Moore,
Agricultural Book Publisher. 1857.
P A L . D H IR E N D R A N A TH
S r i K r ish n a , H is L ife a n d T e a ch in g , Calcutta. Published by the
Author, 1896.
PA D M A N A B H A C H A R , C . M .
S r i M a d h o a ch a r y a r , L ife a n d T e a c h in g s o f, Madras. Progressive Press.
1st. ed. 1909.
PE E B L E S, J . M .
W h a t is S p iritu a lism ? Michigan. Battle Creek, Peebles Pub. Co., 5th
ed. 1910.
P U P IL S , BY SO M E OF H E R
H . P . B la o a tsk y , In M e m o r y o f, London. Adelphi T. P. Soc. 1891.
SIN N E T T , A . P .
H . P . B la v a ts k y , I n cid e n ts in th e L ife o f, London. George Redway,
Isted. 1886.
O ccu lt W orld , T h e, London. Kegan, Paul Trench, Trubner & Co. 7th
ed. 1895.
36
562 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
O ccu lt W orld P h e n o m e n a ; a n d th e S . P . R ., T h e, London, vjeorge
Redway, 1886.
T h eo so p h y in E u ro p e, E a r ly D a y s o f, London. T. P. H. 1922.
SIR C A R , M ABEN D RA N ATH
E a stern L igh ts. Calcutta. Arya Pub. Co. 1935.
S. P. R. Proceedings ; Part ix. 1885.
SOLOVYOFF, V . S .
P r ie ste s s o f Isis, A m o d ern . Trans, by Walter Leaf, D. Litt. London.
Longmans Green & Co. 1895.
V AN M AN EN , JO H AN
T h eo so p h y ; A cco r d in g to th e B is h o p o f M a d ra s, M rs. B e s a n t’s, Madras.
T. P. H. 1914.
W A C H T M E IST E R , T H E CO U N TE SS C .
H . P . B la v a lsk p ■ R em in is ce n c e s o f, London. Adelphi. T. P. H. 1893.
W A T T S , M R S. H O W ITT
S p ir itu a l R efo r m a tio n , P io n e e r s o f th e, London, Psychological Press
Assoc. 1883.
Y ea r B oo k , I n te r n a tio n a l T h e o s o p h ic a l. Adyar, T. P. H. 1937 and 1938.
C y c lo p e d ia , T h e R o y a l M a so n ic, Kenneth R. H. Mackenzie ix°. London.
Bro. John Hogg. 1877.
E n c y c lo p e d ia B ritta n n ica , London & New York ; Encycl. Brit. Co. ed.
14. 1929.
E n c y c lo p e d ia , C h a m b ers, London & Edinburgh ; \V. & R. Chambers. New
ed. 1901.
E n cy clo p e d ia , N ew P o p u la r , London ; (Gen. Ed., Ch. Annandale), Gresham
Pub. Co. 1907.
E n cy clo p e d ia , S c h a ff- H e r z o g ,—of Religious Knowledge. New York &
London. Funk and Wagnalls. 1908.
M A C AZ IN E S
These Magazines, etc., are given in the order inwhich they appeared.
Only those are cited which have been consulted, from the date of
appearance onwards.
Adyar Headquarters : T h e T h eo so p h ist, T h e A d y a r B u lle tin , T h e A d y a r
N ew s (2), T h e A d y a r T h eo so p h ist, Convention issues of T h e A d y a r
D a ily N ew s, T h e T h e o s o p h ica l W orld , T h e Y o u n g T h eo so p h ist,
also G en er a l R ep o rts.
America : T h e P a th , M er cu r y , T h e T h co so p h ic M e s sen g er , W o rld T h eo so p h y ,
T h e A m erica n T h eo so p h ist.
Australia: T h eo so p h y in A u stra lia , T h e A u stra lia n T h eo so p h ist, A u stra lia n
N ew s a n d N otes, T h e o s o p h y in A u stra lia .
Belgium : L 'A ction T h éo so p h iq u e.
Burma : T h e M e s s a g e o f T h eo so p h y .
BIBLIOGRAPHY 563
Brazil: O Theosophisla.
Canada : The Canadian Theosophisi.
Central America : Virya.
Ceylon : The Ceylon Thcosophical News.
Cuba : Revista Teosofica Cubana.
England : Lucifer, The Vahan, The Thcosophical Review, Theosophy, Thco­
sophical News and Notes, (shared by Scotland.dreland and Wales),
(Report o f the Proceedings in Europe, 1891-6).
France: Le Lotus Bleu, La Revue Theosophiquc, Bulletin Theosophique.
India: Pras’noltara, Theosophy in India, The Indian Theosophisi. (Also The
Arya Bala Bodhini, The Central Hindu College Magazine.)
Ireland : Theosophy in Ireland.
Italy : II Loto, II Bollitlino.
Mexico : El Mexico Teosofica.
Netherlands : Thcosophia.
Netherlands Indies : Theosophie in Netherlands Indie.
New Zealand : Theosophy in New Zealand.
Philippine Islands : The Lotus.
S. Africa : The Seeker, Theosophy in South Africa, The Link-
O ther Magazines, etc. : The Commonweal, New India, both daily and
weekly (India) ; Dawn (Australia) ; The Theosophie Voice, The O. E.
Library Critic (America) ; The Thcosophical Forum (Point Loma).
P A M P H L E T S
Concerning H. P. B. G. R. S. Mead, Adyar Pamphlets, iii, 1920.
Five Messages from H. P. Blavatsky to the American Theosophisls. Los
Angeles. The Theosophy Company, 1922.
Occult Hierarchy, The, Annie Besant, Adyar. T.P.H., 1915.
“A Letter addressed to the Fellows of the London Lodge of the
Theosophical Society." By the President and Vice-President of the
Lodge. 188?.
L E T T E R S
G. S. Arundale, Annie Besant, H. P. Blavatsky, C. Jinarajadasa,
W. Q. Judge, J. Krishnamurti, C. W. Leadbeater, G. R. S. Mead,
H. S. Olcott, A. P. Sinnett, etc., etc.
SCRAPBO O KS
Annie Besant, H. P. Blavatsky, C. Jinarajadasa, H. S. Olcott, etc.
D IA R IE S, E TC .
H. S. Olcott, Annie Besant, C. W. Leadbeater, etc.
D o c u m e n t s , R e c o r d s , and P r i v a t e L e t t e r s in connection with the
Coulomb, Judge, Leadbeater, Krishnamurti and other Cases, and with
many other incidents ; all in the Archives of The Theosophical Society«
( i l ^ ( Â J b ^
IN D E X
A
PAGE
A brew, William de 158, 160,
161, 186, 232
Abrew, P. de 449
Acuna, Dr. J. B. 492
Academy of Arts 527, 530, 534
A c a d e m y of Sciences,
French 12
Adept, become 45
Cyprian 52
Egyptian 70
Hungarian 42
Adepts I, 25. 44, 45, 46 70
Aseka 46,
Earth, few remain on 46
Growth, stages of 44
Adhemar, Countess d’ 196, 255
Advisory Board 359, 360, 362
Adyar, Founders arrive 174
Day, instituted 447
Expanded 375
Flaming Centre 484
Hall enlarged 228
Improvement of 374
Library 3, 228, 231, 233.
244, 271, 319, 331, 336,
421, 520
Golden Jubilee 527
Pantheon proposed 218
Mentioned 186, 206
Purchased 171
Adyar Bulletin 375, 461, 462,
482, 488
becomes Adyar Theosophist 493
Adyar Players 527
Agastya, Rishi 53, 406
Aksakoff, Hon. A. 12, 16, 17,
18, 21, 23, 26,69,95,
103, 318
Alban, St. 53
Albear, Don R. de 477
Alcocke, Olcott or 35
Alden, W. L. 78,110
PAGE
Alexandre, O. 270
America, U. S., karma of 58
America, Masters live in 54
American Theosophist 515
Amrita Bazar Patrika 131
Ancient Wisdom, The 315, 325, 526
Anderson, Dr. J. A. 284, 296
Angels, and Ishvara 47
Master R., works with 53
Nations, of 55
Anti-Malerialisle 249
Anthroposophical Society 398
Apollonius of Tyana 52
Arabs, shipwrecked 97
Archer, Capt., and Sat Bhai 99
Archives, President custodian
of 254
Arhats 46
Aria J. R. 379, 382 ; dies 487
Arnold, Miss D. 471
Arnold, Sir E. 20
Gives MSS. to H. S. O. 199
Arnould, A. 250, 270
Art M agic 110
Arundale, Miss F. 175, 197,
202, 218, 219, 346, 347, 402
Asst. Treas. T. S. 200, 247
Inner Group meets at
house of 187
Arundale, George S. 4, 5, 233,
391, 393, 406, 422, 442,
471,501,511,544
Adyar beautified by 536
Besant, assists Dr. 461
Books by 478,511,529,539
Central Hindu College,
Prof, of 348 ; Principal
of 382 ; resigned 402
Convention Lectures 389,
420, 446, 454, 460, 470,
477, 481, 485, 502, 512
Convention, presides at
Adyar 519
566 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
H
Arundale, G. S. Doctor of
Letters Degree confer­
red on 465
Education, and 161, 427
Education Minister, Indore 461
Episcopal title dropped 514
Europe, views on 536-7, 539
Gen. Sec., Australia 476 ;
re-elected 482
Gen. Sec., England 416
„ „ India 485
H. P. B.’s ring, wears 90
Internment 423, released 425
Krishnamurti, one of 12 to
assist 469
Krishnamurti, assisted in
v training of 515
Letters, issues three 517
Marries Shrimati Rukmini
Devi 440
Master on Presidentship of 51I
Order of the Rising Sun
of India, starts 390
President, elected 516
,, nominated 511
Reconstruction, on T. S.
431,432
Seven Year Plan 522
Students, popular with 420, 465
Tours 492, 505, 518, 524, 530
Vice-President 510
Who's for A u s t r a l i a ?
starts 501
World Congress, presides 531
Yoga, studies 539
Youth, and 468
Arya B6la Bodhini 298, 308, 329
Aryan Forefathers Society 182
Aryan Temperance Society 135
Aryan Theosophists of New
York 188, 309
Arya Samaj 53
Alliance with 103, 106,
107,152,298
Aims and Ideals of 105
Col. addresses 134, 145,
148, 149
Contact, first 98, 115
History of relation with
T. S. 115 et seq.
Mentioned 111, 123, 126,
148, 149, 186
Arya Samaj Rules 108, 119, 145
. T. S. of the 106,108
Aryasanga 50, 54, 255'
Astral Plane, The 22, 316
Astral, the word 7
Astrology, Third Ray, con­
nected with 51
Ateko, K. B. 536.
At the Feet o f the Master 388, 397
Atlanteans 7
Atmaram Swami 185
Atrya, or Atriya, Master 69, 174
Attacks 163, 183.
Australia and N. Zealand
home of new sub-race 416
Australian Thcosophist, The 486
Australian Theosophical Trust 429
“ B ack to Blavatsky " move­
ment 441, 452.
Bacon, Francis, Lord Verulam 53
Bacon, Roger 53'
Baden-Powell, Sir R. 442
Bailey, Mr. Foster and
Mrs. A. E. 438,452
Baillie Weaver, H. 423, 432
Balfour, A. J. 21, 392
Balfour, G. and Lady B. 392
Bannerji, N. K. 169, 174
Banner o f Light, quoted 30, 40, 83
Banon, Capt. A. 167
Banyan tree 443, 469, 470
Barberini, Chevalier de 13
Baroda, Gaekwarof 120, 185
Barret, Sir William 199, 215, 216
Bates, Miss Rosa 106, 109, 125, 128
Circular, issues 156
Resigns 145
Bavaji 222
Bean, Dr. J. 456, 465
Beard, Dr. G. M., 25, 61
Bell family, the 347
Benares, Maharaja of 84, 150,
151,330
Benares, Rules revised at, 1879,
137 ; Section Hdqrs. at 310
Bennett, D. M., Freethinker
165, 166
Besant, Annie, 4
Activities 422, 435
llU ^{ j# ,n
d
e
x 567
PAGE PA CE
Besant, Annie, Advisory Coun­
cil, on 269
Adyar Headqrs. resides at 375
Adyar, desires School at 508
American Section, rebuilds 324
Appellate Board, on 262
Attacks on 305, 385, 449, 455
Autobiography 256,297
Avenue Rd, vests in T. S., 257
Benares, resides at 310
Birthday, celebrates 80th 481
Books by 291.316.344,398
Bow Rd., Club 266, 267
Boy Scouts Assoc. Indian,
promotes 442
Bradlaugh and 261
Br a hm a dv idyashrama,
opens 453
Cause, pledges be true to 278
Central Hindu College
q .o ., starts 327
Challenges opinion, 370
Clairvoyant abilities 315;
researches 373, 383, 389
| Co-Freemasonry, promotes 346]f
C o m m o n w ea l, T h e, starts 407
Commonwealth of India
Bill, and 468
Congress, Ind. Nat., and,
208, 308 ; President of 425
Discipleship, on 353
D. Litt., Degree, receives 446
Education, and 161
E. S. T., chief Sec. and
Recorder 252
„ Joint-Headship 282
„ Suspends and
reorganises 484
Europe, last visit to 496
Farewell address to Secu­
larists 283
Gokhale Hall, builds 410
Glamoured, not 367
Flail of Science Lecture 257
Happy Valley Scheme,
starts 478
H. P. B. lives with 261
„ meets 256
H. P. B., pupil of 256
H. P. B.’s, ring, wears 90
Hinduism Text Books,
writes 344
Besant, Annie, Flindu revival,
promotes 349
Hindu University, and 388,
393,417
Hodgson, R., meets 215
Home Rule for Ind., de­
mands 412
„ „ League organi­
ses 417
Illness 484
India, Sons of, and Daught­
ers of, starts 378, 379
India, withdraws attention
from 499
India's place, claims 407
Internment, 423 ; release 425
Judge, brings char ges
against 299, 302, 305, 307
Krishnamurti court case 399
\7 Guardianship of,
and 388
„ twelvehelpers
of, announces 469
„ vehicle of world
Teacher an­
nounces 475
Leadbeater case, and 356,
' c t seq . ; 367, 370
L u cife r , co-edits 258
Masters, and 318
Master, direct relations
with 257
„ intercourse wi‘h
not interrupted 448
„ refuses permis­
sion to retire 488
Memorial Convention to 512
N ew I n d ia , starts 409
Non-Co-operation, opposes
435, 442, 447
Occult Chemistry, and 373
Occult training of 386
Orders not to reside in
Madras 422
Parliament, Madras, starts 412
Passes away 509
Politics, enters 405
President, elected 372
„ nominated as 368
„ re-elected 409,
444, 483
Quoted 175
%s 4- < \ ndl (uk S')| . Tlli /4,/3^yUi,
568 A SHO RT; H ISTO RY OF T H E THEO SO PHICAL SOCIETY
f £
tccJa ' (U***>'k 37^
• D A r n D i r e
^4
Besant, Annie Religions, World
Parliament, at 293, 296
Rulings by 442, 443, 462
S .D . reviewed by 236
„ revised by 291
„ Third Vol. issued by 323
Silver Wolf Badge con­
ferred upon 505
Society, The, defends 397
Sorbonne, at 392, 445
Sydney Lodge charter,
cancels 456
„ „ troubles and
449-51, 455
Theos. Soc. sets tasks for 426
Tours, 278, 279, 286, 296,
298, 303, 306, 321, 326,
336, 337, 346, 350, 353,
371, 374, 378, 384, 388,
391, 415, 430, 443, 463.
473, 474, 480
Tributes to 463, 464
War, on 418
Withdraws 503
Besant, Digby 393, 494
Betanelli, M. 666,
B b a g a v a d G ila , 194, 234,272,
289, 316, 354, 509
Bharata Samaj 454, 471
Bhattacharya, Prof. A. 138
Bhavani Shankar 165, 168, 297
326
Bibby, J. 453 ; Annual 454
B ib le 127, 536
B ib lio p o list, Sotheran edits, 69, 114
Biliere, A. 15
Billing, Dr. and Mrs. 103, 104
107, 123, 124
Blake, Dr. C. Carter, 107, 120
Blavatsky, H. P. 2, 341
Acting Treasurer T. S. 156
Adepts, advises H.S.O. of 42
Advisory Council, selects 269
Ancestry, 27 e t seq .
Appearance 33
Appellate Board, Chair­
man of 262
Archbishop of Canterbury,
Open Letter to 239
Ashes handed to Society 284
Betanelli, marries 66
Betrayal by friends 228
Blavatsky, H.P., Birth of 27
Blavatsky, marries 31
Bombay in 125
Bow Rd., Club 266
Brotherhood, on 240
Buckle and Darwin, trans­
lates 71
Cause, loyalty to 260
C a v es a n d J u n g le s o f H in d u s-
llian, highly paid for ■ 139
Centennialcelebrated 495,
500, 505
Charges against 508
Chelas, brings,to Conven­
tion 174
„ in charge of V 178
Childhood, 30 e t seq .
Chittenden, at 40, 57
Convention R e s o1u tion
concerning 229
Corresponding Sec. 311, 253
„ „ resigns
office of 222
Darjiling, at 173
Dehra Dun, visits 162
Detective, annoys 130, 131
Disappearance of 156
Divorce of 32
Dual Personality of 33
Encausse, and 268
Enghien, at 196
E. S., appoints Col. Olcott
representative of 260
E. S. forms 251-3
“ First Occult shot ” 72
“ Founder” 78
Founder, real of T. S. 206
Future of T. S., on 338
H . P . B la v a tsk y , h e r life
a n d w ork f o r H u m a n ity 306
H. S. O., meets 40
India, leaves 222
In d ia n S p e cta to r letter to 127
Illness. 218, 238, 257, 278 279
Inner Group, urges H.S.O.
form 233
Journals, writes for80, 117, 118
Judge, invites, replace 237
Karli Caves, visits 129
Lansdowne Road, at 241
Latchkey, called 244
Leg, injures 66, 235
M(J- IND EX \ 1 VL
PACF.
n o 569
Blavatsky, H. P., London
Lodge, at 197
Madras, welcomes 205
Marseilles, in 193
Master asks “ if willing to
go on ” 227
Master, long talk with 238
Master, meets 32, 51
Master M., visited often by 165
Master M. writes of 34
Master’s agent 248
Maycot, at, 209 ; leaves 241
Medium, denies being 25
Mediumship, and 31
Memorial (H. P. B.) Fund 282
Memorandum 193
MS. (1886) discovered 447
Message from 425
Mysterious bungalow,
visits 129
Names, various, of 27
Naturalisation, of 108
New York Sun libel suit 271, 275
“ Open Letter ” of 79
Ostend, at 235
“ Pansil,” takes 143, 356
Paris, in 195
Passes away 281
Path, The, writes for 245
Phenomena, 25, 42, 65, 129
136, 137, 142, 146, 147, 235
Poor people, pays fees
for 157
Portrait of 104, 203
Prediction of 6th R. R. 478
Presidential Delegate, etc. 270
Prophecy concerning na­
tions 412
Radha Bai, pen-name of
!7, 163
Rebus, writes for 18
Recording Secretary 82
Recrudescence of attacks 373
Reincarnated 324
Resolution of confidence
in 204
Ring, of 90
Room, used by Presidents 233
Russia, offer from 235
Secret Doctrine rewrites 236
Siddhis, and 137
Sikkim, with Masters 173
37
Blavatsky, H. P., Sinnett, Mrs.,
writes re S. P. R. 216
Sinnett writes Memoirs 230
Speech, makes 138, 205
Spiritualism, cn 62, 73
Spiritualist not 61
Spiritualistic mov eme nt
enters 33
Spiritual Scientist, writes for 68
Statue at Adyar 332
“ Spy rumours ” about 223
S, P. R. q. u., and 23
Tea-cup phenomena 146
The Thcosophist, starts 134
Thought, challenges 42
Todas, visits 183
Torre del Greco, at 227
Travels, early 32
Visited by Elder Brother 124
Voice o f the Silence, and 52
Voice, record of 124
Western T. S., proposes 247
Will of 293
Workers, sends out 278
Wurzburg, at 227
Blavatsky General N. V„ mar­
ries H. P. B. 31 ; Seeks
divorce 32
Blavatsky Association 461
Blech. Ch. 250, 335 ; Blechs,
347, 390 ; Ch. 389, 432,
459; Aimée, passes, 498 ;
Ch. passes 522
Bloede, Dr. G. 118
Board of control, U. S. A. 200
Members of, 200 ; abolish­
ed, 237 ; mentioned 311
Board of Control Adyar 192
Bodhisattva, The 46, 49
Boggiani, Col. O. 345, 362, 465
Bombay, Branch organised 141
First meeting in 138
Founders new home in 127
Bombay Gazette 129, 183
Bombay Guardian 209
Bondfield, Miss M. 464
Book o f the Qolden Precepts 255
Borthwick, Lord, H. S. O.,
visits 202
Bourbon, M. Adelberth de 164
Boutlerof, Prof. 17
570 A SH O R T H ISTO R Y OF T H E THEO SO PHICAL SOC IETY
PAGE PA CE
Bouton, J. W., 83, publishes
Isis 94. 293
Bow Rd. Club established 266
Closed 267
Bowen, Rev. 209
Bradlaugh. C. 20. 237, 261
Brahma, Ishvara, aspect of 47
Brahmavidyashrama 453, 488
Braid, Dr. 36
Brazil, place in future 487
Bredif, Medium 1
7
Bright, Miss E. 362, 373, 393
Brisy, Serge 447, 507
Britten, Mrs. Emma Hardinge
11,20,82, 110, 275
Britten, Dr. W. 78, 111
Broadcasting Station, 2 GB,
476, 504, 542 ; at Cali 507
Brotherhood, Great, 22, 31, 34,
42, 123, 387; OccultCen­
tres of 46, 68, 70 ; Hima­
layan I19
Egyptian Group 70
Luxor 42, 70
Mentioned 2, 3, 25, 241,
257, 370,374,396,418,
420, 460, 471,490, 523,
524, 526, 543 544
Universal 5,240,276 310
410, 524
Yucatan 22
Brown, E. 67,68,71,74
Brown, W. T., joins Col. on
Buddhist(s) Flag 232
Fourteen Points 276, 284
Girls School opened 266
Groups, two 144
League, International 272, 287
Mission to Europe pro­
posed 276
Petition for Redress 181
Publication Fund 143
Schools of 276
Shrine at Adyar 471
Section 144
Sects 145
Sects of Japan 258
Shrines 292
Theosophical School (s) 149
Buddhism 153, 158, 255
Bulatgama 158, 161
B u lle tin 15
B u lle tin T h eo so p h iq u e 453, 457, 528
B u r g e s s , A. 461
Burnett. R. A. 358, 359, 362
Burnouf, E. 318
Burrows, Herbert 257, 262, 267,
269, 278, 282, 347
B\> M a ster's D ir ectio n 303, 305, 306
C
C a b l e s , Mrs. J. W. 200
Cagliostro 107, 325
Cahagnet, A. 164, 188
Caithness, Lady, Duchesse de
Pomar 15, 19, 188, 195,
tour 184
Master visits 185, 192
Browning, Miss K. 390
Bruce, Aeneas I58
B u c a n ie r s in A m erica , etc. His­
tory of the 65
Buchanan, Prof., J. R. 69
Buck, Dr. J. D. 175,200,280,
296, 301
Buddha, Gautama, The 48,
143, 160, 255, 265, 387
Buddha, Pratyeka, etc. 46, 48
Buddhist(s), appeal to Govern­
ment 181
Burmese 276
Defence Committee 191
Division of T. S. 259
Educational Movement 161
196, 201, 231
Calmette, Dr. 347
Cama, K. R. 127
Cambridge Univer. Soc. for
Psychol. Invest. 19
Campbell, Rev. R. J. 392
Campaigns, Brotherhood 460
Reincarnation 482
Straight Theosophy 524
There is a Plan 526, 530
Understanding, for 537
C a n a d ia n T h co so p h isl, T h e 452
Canterbury, Archbishop of 239
C a tech ism , B u d d h ist 159, 172,
221, 232, 352
Castellani, T. 518, 540
C a v es a n d J u n g le s o f H in d u s-
th a n 129, 139
INDEX 5 7 !
Central Hindu College 327,
328, 330, 331, 333, 343.
348, 349, 354, 382, 390,
393, 396, 402, 446
Central Hindu College Magazine 298
Centres, Occult 2, 4, 521
Ceylon Times 134, 163
Chakravarti, G. N. 229, 293,
296, 305, 308, 362, 457
Chamberlain, Sir A. 423
Chambers, R. 20
Charlu, T. V. 182, 226, 244
Chattopadhyaya, J. C. 316
Chelas 45, 174, 177, 178, 193
Chelmsford, Lord 425
Chetty, Kottaya 265, 290
„ C. Sambiah 171
„ G. Soobiah 171,355,376
„ R. P. 223
Chevrier, G. 347
Chidester, Mrs. E. M. 357
Child, Dr. H T. 21,25,63,64
Christian College Magazine 203,
210,213
Christian Literature Society 215
Church, Christian, opposition
of 492, 500,522
Church, Liberal Catholic (Old)
420, 428, 433, 436, 440,
445, 451, 468, 476, 509, 515
Churchill, Lady V. 392, 403
Christie, Miss C. 446
Cleather, Mrs. A. L. 306, 461
Clear, T. c. 104
Coats, J. B. S. 541
Cobb, J. S.. 78, 81,89, 101, 103,106
Cochius, P. M. 489, 523,531
Codd, Miss C. 406, 446,505
Co-Freemasonry 346
Coleman B. 20
Collapse o f Koothoomi, The 204
Collins. Mrs. M. 52, 231, 239, 258
Committee of 1, 400, 438, 442
Commonweal, The 407, 408, 410,
418,427,481
Commonwealth of India Bill
464, 467, 468
Confucius 50
Congress, European Fed. 302,
403, 458, 484, 489, 494,
5 20 , 522, 538
„ G en . S e c s ., o f 523
Congress, Indian National 207,
244, 308, 424
„ S. American 503, 513, 521, 539
„ World. T. S. 444, 490, 531
Connemara, Lord 244
Convention Special, England 462
Cook, Rev. J. 166, 167
„ S. A. 502
Cooper, I. S. 389, 429, 441
„ Miss L. 266. 267, 281
Cooper-Oakley, A. J. 219, 223
244, 246
„ ., Mrs. 205, 267.
297, 304, 317
318, 326, 334,
351, 362,408
Coronado, M. L. 492
Coryn, Dr. H. A. W. 269
Cossim Bazaar, Maharani of 133
Coulomb, Mons. E. (France) 270
Coulomb, Mons. and Mme. 176
180, 181, 192, 205, 206,210
222, 236, 256
Arrive 141
Attack H. P. B. 204, 224
Board of Control,given
notice by 210
Cairo, in 134
Character of 145, 209
Committee, findings of 206
Conspiracy 209-16
First meet H. P. B. 209
Letters and writings 134,
203, 210, 213, 215
Phenomena, witness 165,
177, 181
Coues, Prof. E. 201, 202, 231,
237, 295
Attacks H. P. B. 273
Dr. Elliott, in his Letters 274
New York. Sun Libel 271
Courmes, Commandant 15, 195, 333
Cousins, Dr. J. H. 215, 453,
460. 534 ; Mrs. 488
Crauford, and Balcarres, Earl
of 19
Cronvall, E. 459
Crookes, Prof. (Sir William)
19, 39, 197, 198, 199
Crosbie, R. 451
Crow’s Nest 151, 165
Curtis, David A. 124
572 A SH O RT H ISTO RY OF T H E THEO SO PHIC A L SO C IETY
PAGE
Curzon, Hon. George, (Lord)
244, 333, 334
Cutting, Emma 209
Cyclopaedia, A p p l e t o n's New
American 37
Daily Chronicle 307
Daily Telegraph 262, 450
Damiani, Signor 20, 21
Damodar, K' Mavlankar, Asst.
Recording Secretary
139; Joint 156
Disappears, 185 ; goes to
Tibet 221
Helps H.P.B. 177
Joins Society 133
Mentioned 142, 156, 165,
167, 178, 181, 184, 185,
194, 206, 218, 221, 232
Dana, Charles 73
Dana, David, Miracle Club,
medium of 73
Das, Bhagavân 292, 346, 350,
386,402,510,534
Datta, Hirendra Nath 170,
310; Convention Lec­
tures, 497, 512, 526;
Vice-Pres. 519
Davidge, J. L. 476
Davidson, F. 348, 352, 370
Davis, Mrs. K. B. 340
Dayanand Sarasvati, Swami
98, 99, 103, 104, 106, 115
116, 117, 119, 120, 121.
129, 130, 136, 137, 141,
145.167.171,185
Adept, considered an 99, 119
Autobiography 121
Councillor of T. S. I30
Diploma, accepts, 115 ; re­
turns ^ 141
Founder, Arya Samâj 115
Rituals, consulted concer-
ning 104. 121, 131
Society, attacks 121, 169
Dawn 445,455
Death and after 297
D efence o f Madame Blaoaisky 216
“ Delhi seal " purchased 168
Judge and 289,300
Delville, J. 394. 484
Dennis, Mrs. H. I. 357
Deshmukh, G. H. 139
Devachan 316
Devas, Ishvara assist 47
Dhabagiri Nath (see Bavaji)
Dharmapala, H. 232, 258, 292
293, 296, 383
Dharmajyoti, Master D. K. as 54
Dhyan Chohan, mind, Lord of 44
Dhyanis, collective host 44
Diary, (Besant) 299, 391,415, 464
Diary, (Olcott) 35, 42, 43, 93,
109, 125, 129, 133, 134,
136, 140, 151, 154, 156,
159, 181, 270,271.288,
294, 299, 309, 319, 335,
347, 348, 363, 367, 369
Dialectical Society 20
Did Madame Blaoaisky Forge
the Mahatma Letters ? 216
Dijkgraaf, Miss C. 347, 489,
490, 501, 531
Ditson, Dr. G. L. 21,30,69
Djual Khool, Master 50, 54,
180, 185, 217, 226
Dnyanodaya 131
Dodge, Miss M. H. 395
Dolgorouky, Prince A. 1
7
Dolgoroukis 28 ct seq
Doraswamy 184, 242
Doubleday, Gen. Abner, 106
121; Pres. Board ofCon­
trol 124, 125, 142, 175
188, 200
Doyle, Sir A. C. 483
Dramard, Louis 15, 231, 245
248, 249
Druses 32
Dudley, Dr. ^ 157
Du Potet, Baron, J. 13; joins
140, 141
Du Prel, Baroness 202
Dyne, G. 347
Dynowska, Miss W. 461
E
E a r l y Days o f Theosophy in
Europe, The, quoted 179
188. 198
Eddy family. 10. 40. 58. 59, 61, 62
ÌLhaU u (H u / tl % CjCf.
INDEX 573
PA C E PAGE
Eddy Ghosts 40 E. S. T. Rules 260
Manifestations 39 Second Section, again be-
Mediumship 57 comes 376
Phenomena 60 Secrecy in 84
William 58 Suspended in America 441
Edge, S. V. 284, 292, 294, 298, 302 Suspended, then re-orga-
Edger, Miss L. 318, 322, 323, nised 484
326, 329, 330, 334, 337, Esoteric Writings 317
379, 382 Evette, Henri 14, 15, 188
Education, Fund 158, 161 Ezekiel, E. D. 74, 174
India 422
International Board 430 F
Presidents interested in
161,468
Society for promotion of 427
Theosophical Fraternity
in (Eng.) 421
Eek, Dr. L. 495
Eeghen-Boissevain, Mev.M. 530
Egyptians, Lost Canon of Pro­
portion of the 76
Elder Brethren 92, 387, 388,
471, 511, 525, 532
Elemental(s) 58
Races 83
Elementary Spirits 58, 61, 67,
71, 82, 86
Elements o f Theosophy, The 322
Ellis, Dr. Ashton 238
Elmore, Alex. 524, 527
Encausse, Dr. G. (Papus) 249,
250, 268, 275
Encyclopaedia B r ita n n ica, re
H. P. B. 214
English, Dr. W. A. 355
Ennemoser 12
Enoch 45
Ensouled Violin, The 52
Ensor, Mrs. B. 421
Epiphany 193
Ervast, Pekka 440
Esoteric Buddhism, 158, 178, 179
187, 194, 202, 231, 255
E.S.T. 3, 252, 260, 261, 267, 274, 525
First Esoteric Committee 206
Formed 251, 253
Germ of 155, 206
Heads of 4
Jinarâjadâsa, C., becomes
Head, of 520
Joint Headship of 284
Leadbeaterbecomes Head 510
F ad eef, Major-Gen. 163
Fadeef, Hon. N. A . 18, 30, 188
202 ; A. F. 452
Fales 71
Fauvety, Ch. 15
Fawcett, E. D. 252, 262,265, 266
Fellowship of arts and crafts 472
Fellowship of Faiths 477, 480
Felt, G. H., a Founder 76, 77
78, 83, 111
Lectures 76, 89
Lecture, fails to 83, 89
Vice-President 82
Fengnagell, Baron F. de 164
Finch, G. B., London Lodge
President 197, 239
First Section, Brothers of 163
Cap left by member of 155
Simla T. S. and 162
First Principles o f Theosophy 435
Flame, Lords of the 47
Flammarion, Camille 15, 69, 188
Joins Society 141
Masters commend 195
Flynn, Miss Mary 174, 185, 223
Footfalls on the Boundary o f
Another World 19
Fortin, Mons. and Mme. 15, 188
201
Founders, 78, 79 ; Accusations,
newspaper 131
Attacks, missionary 163
London, in 123
Orders, go Ceylon 142
Rajputana, visit 129
“ Speke Hall ” embark 125
Fox, Sisters, 9, 59 ; Kate, John 11
Fragments o f Occult Truth 163
tv A
¿ f t w -
2 Ì
4 A SHO RT H ISTO RY OF T H E THEO SO PHICAL SOC IETY
PAGE
Framji Cowasji Hall 128, 167
203, 204, 242, 332
Freeman, P. 455
Freemasons 100, 103
Freemasonry 107
Free Thought Movement 256
Frei, H., Ree. Sec. 511, 513
French Academy of Sciences 12
French, J. 164
Fricke, W. B. 379
Froment, Mons. S. 249
Fuente, de la, (y Romero) 336, 347
Fullerton, A. 244, 262, 273, 313
324, 357, 361, 362
Fussell, J. H. 385, 504
G
G a b o r i a u , F. 245, 249,250
Gadgil. J. S. 127,171,174,258
Galle, T. S.t 143 ; Priests, Con­
vention of 161
Gamma, La 539
Gandhi, M. K. 318, 430
Ganguly, D. 169
Garden of Remembrance 524
Gardner, E. L. 462, 469,483
Gebhard, Mrs. 198, 202,235
Gebhard, A. 198, 245
General Report 278, 314, 319,
324, 335, 336, 351, 352,
373, 420, 421, 422, 425,
440, 474, 506
General Secretary, title first
used 237
Genesis 43
George, D. Lloyd 423
Germain, Comte de St. 107, 325
Gernet, Miss N. de 362
Ghosal, Ananda 174, 177
Ghose, S. K., Amrila Bazar
Patrika, editor of 131, 266
Ghost Club 19
Gil, A. de la Pena 503
Gladstone, Wm. E. Ill
God, Sons of 45
Gokhale, G. N. 534
Golden Book o f The Theosophi-
cal Society, The 104, 478
Golden Chain 411
Golden Precepts, Book o f 255
Golden Rules o f Buddhism, The 242
Gordon, Lt.-Col. and Mrs.
136, 169
Gowland, Mrs 466
Gramont, Comte A. de 347
Great White Lodge 490
Griffiths, Dr. A. 297
Guest, D. L. Haden 416
Guldenstubbe, Baron, 13 ;
Baroness 21
Gulistan 246, 352
Gurney, E. 187,, 199, 211
Gurus 193
Gustam, A. F. 108, 116
Guyot, Yves 201
H
H ah n , Rotternstern 27
Haldane, Lord 463
Hamerster, A. J., Treasurer,
511,519: Curator, Adyar
Lib. 520
Hamilton, Duchess of 532
Harbottle, T. B. 241
Harbinger o f Light 164
Hardinge, Lord 417
Harisingh, Prince 242, 287
Harte, Richard 252, 254, 271, 276
Hartmann, C. H., Bequest 246, 277
Hartmann, Dr. F. 185, 192,
203, 204, 219, 223, 335
Harvey, C. 390
Hastings, Beatrice, D efence o f
Madame Blavalsky 216
Havell, E. B. 233
Haviland, E. Cyril 164
Henderson, Major, Police,
Chief of 146,148
Herald o f the Star 391, 469
Hermes 45, 48
Hierarchy, Head of 47
Hierarchy, Occult 44, 45, 46,
47, 53, 72. 99. 376, 387,
420, 467, 468
Hierophants, named 45
Higgins, Mrs. M. Musaeus 284, 449
Hilarion, Master, rank, ap­
pearance, etc. 52 ; Illa­
rion 69 ; Boston, in 69
Founders, visits 154
Mentioned 52, 181, 319
Message, sends 185, 231
f- p, Q ir /hJiJ'K <
\ 23 t\^.Li*i U t •J
* * l 3 3 1
PACE-''
Hilarion, Master, S p i r i t u a l
S cie n tist, writes for 69
H in ts on E so ter ic T h eo so p h y
(Hume) 28, 43, 163
H in d u , T h e 397, 407
Hindu Sabha, Cochin 152
Hindu Sunday School pro­
posed 176
Hindu University 417
Hinricks 71, 72, 273
Hiraf, Article 71
Hiraf, F e w Q u estio n s to, A . 72
H is to r ic a l S k etch o f th e T h eo so -
p h ic a l S o c ie t y 311
H isto ir e d e la S o c ié t é T h éo so p h i-
q u e e n F r a n c e 250
Hitrovo, Mons. 205
H. P. B. Attacks upon 86, 167
Founders 78, 79, 183 ; List
of 110 etc.
Lamasery 90
Lucifer, founds 239
Real Founder-builder 206
Tribute to 285
Vote of confidence in 204
H . P . B . ’s L etters to A . P . S in n e tl 43
Hodgson, Richard 216, 224,
230, 281
Changed opinions 215
Report of 214
S. P. R. investigator 212
Hodgson Smith, A. 317, 347
Hodson, G. 483, 505, 507, 526,
535, 542
Hoffman, Baron, O. 202
Holloway, Mrs L. 196, 200, 202
Holmes, Mr. and Mrs.
Mediums 40, 63
Home, D. D. 16,19,20
Home Rule for India 412, 414,
422, 427, 430, 455, 499
League 417
Hook, Dr. Van 363, 377, 379 ;
Mrs. Van Hook 373
Hotchener, H. 491
Hotchener (Russak), Mrs. 491, 499
Huddlestone Gardens 171
Hume, A. O. 28, 136, 146
Congress, Father of 207
Defends Founders 163
Master K. H. communi­
cates with 147
Reorganisation proposals 221
Simla, T. S. and 162
Hunyadi Janos 53
Hurrychand Chintamon 98,
119,125,131
Correspondence with 115, 117
Diploma sent to 103
Expelled 120
Fees sent through 106
Fellowship, accepts 105
Hermetic Brotherhood of
Luxor and 121
Political agent 120
Trouble with 126, 175
Huxley, Prof. 20
Hyslop, J. Founder 78, 115
I d y ll o f th e W h iteL otu s, T h e 231
Ilangakoon, MrsC. D. 144, 159, 172
II L oto 465
Imperator —
— 80
Inaugural address 165
I n cid e n ts in th e L ife o f H . P .
B la o a ls k y 57, 60, 191, 230
Independent Theosophical So­
ciety 457
In d ia n M ir ro r 169, 340
Indian Reform Bill 431
In d ia n S p ecta to r, quoted 117,
119, 127
Initiates 45, 46
In itia tio n , th e P e r fe c t i n g o f M a n 56
Initiator, the 45, 47
In M em o r y o f H . P . B la o a lsk y 282
I n n er Q o v ern m en t o f th e W orld ,
T h e, quoted 46
Inner Group 206, 252
International Testimonial Fund 266
In th e O u ter C o u rt 315, 316
Ionian, T. S. 141
lonides, Mr. 199
lrvingites 19
Irwin, Capt. F. G. 98, 107
Isis U n v eile d 2, 43, 53, 69, 75,
80, 84, 91, 92, 93, 94 95,
96, 97, 99, 101, 103, 104,
109, 110, 111, 114, 132,
142, 194, 195, 198, 233,
244.275,293.444
Ishvara, shapes sub-planes 46
H P p * I f Z o .
576 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPH1CAL SOCIETY
PAGE
Ithaca, H. P. B. at 80
Ivins, Law suit, conducts 71
J
J e l i h o v s k y , Mme, V. 453
Jencken, H. D. 19
Jesus, Master 50, 52-3
J e w is h T h eo so p h ist, T h e 478
Jews, Knew of Secret
Doctrine 43
Jinarajadasa, C. 72
Adyar Conventionlèctures
412, 420, 446, 454, 460
469, 477, 481, 491, 497
502, 526, 529
Adyar, in 504
Apostle ofArt and Beauty 528
Books by 478
Ceylon, starts work in 336
E n g l a n d , with C. W.
Leadbeater 259
E. S., Head of 520
European Congress, pre­
sides 520
Expelled 363
First Convention Lecture 344
InternationalLecturer, 351
354, 390
Latin people, influence
with 521
Leadbeater, defends 361, 363
Mahatma Letters, on 216
Mentioned 4, 6, 363, 410 etc.
Occult Investigation, on 315
One of Twelve 469
Paris Convention, presides 481
Presidential Deputy 497
Reinstated 365, 366
Rio, creates Centre in 521
Ritual of Mystic Star, and 426
Tours, 385, 394, 416, 421
427, 434, 458, 465, 468
478, 482, 486, 492, 510
520, 527, 535, 537
Training, spiritual 395
Jinaraiadasa, Mrs. 490, 491
Jhâ, Ganganath 292
Johnston, Ch. 252
„ Vera 215,252
Judge, W. Q., Adyar at 203
America, Gen. Sec. 245
PA C E
Judge, W. Q., Aryan Branch
supports 309
Aryan Branch, New York,
and 188, 236
Asked to explain 307
Board of Control 124
Borrowed body 306
Brahmans, criticises 301
C a n d id a te, T h e, edits 188
Case against 307, 309
Case, the 291
Charges, denies 299, 303, 305
Claims with regard to
Masters 284
Councillor 84,86.89.139
Counsel to T. S. 82
Critics, faces 293
Discontent with 294
Europe, in 195, 196
E. S. and 252
E. S., assumes headship 306
E. S., Joint Headship 282
Expulsion demanded 310
Founder 78, 112
Founders, defends 163
General Council on Judge
Case 301
H. P. B. aks him to take
her place 237
H. P. B., breach with 97
„ first visit to 3, 63
„ meets 67, 77
India 203
Jurisdiction, challenges 307
Life, outline of 112
Lettersin Master’s writing,
issues 289
London 201,280,282,288
Madison Avenue Headqrs. 289
Mentioned. 104, 124, 174
194, 245, 247, 252, 253
258, 262, 272, 273, 274
275, 276, 280, 287, 288,
341. 344, 451
Neglect, complains of 300
Nirmanakaya 305
Officer 82
Passes away 320
P a th , T h e starts 237
President, resignation of,
and 287, 288
President, to be next 289
INDEX 577
PAGE
Judge, W. Q., Reconciliation 97, 98
Recording Secretary, be­
comes 108, 156
Secession 309, 310, 311,
312, 320
Secretary, at first meeting 78
Tingley, Mrs. succeeds 320
Vice-President 253
World Parliament of Re­
ligions, at 293, 295, 296
Judicial Committee 299, 301
Juhu Colony 473, 514
Jupiter, Master 53
K
K a b a l a , Secret Doctrine em­
bodies 43
Kabalists, Oriental 43
Kamensky, Anna, Dr. 345, 362,
426,441,488
Kapila, Rishi 45
Kardec, Allan 14,15,16,141,166
Karli Caves, visited 129
Karma 178
K a rm a , A. P. Sinnett, by 231
Kashmir, Maharaja of Jammu
and 185
Kerner 12
Keshav, Mr., Horse and car­
riage presented by 154
Keyto T h eo so p h y , T h e 254, 255 ;
synopsis of, 263 ; revis­
ed edition, 297, 338, 339
340, 526
K. H., Master rank, etc. 50, 51
H. P. B., letter concerning 248
H. P. B., with 173
Damodar, letter concern­
ing 232
Hume and Sinnett, in
touch with 147, 148
Lahore 185
Leadbeater, C. W., trains 226
Letter from 177,232,248,251
Mentioned 136, 156, 157
160, 173, 174, 178, 188,
196, 471, 472
Portrait of 174
Rs. 500, gives 186
Spiritualism, on 24
38
PAGE
Khandalavala. N. D. 141, 186,
204, 247, 272, 291, 294,
296, 299, 407
King, John 20, 62, 63, 68
Sir Henry de Morgan 64, 65
King, Katie Spirit guide 20, 64, 65
Impersonated 63
Kingsford, Dr. Anna 175, 187,
197, 199, 508
Hermetic Society, founds 198
Independent Soci ety,
forms 199
London Lodge, President 196
Kingsland, William 262, 269,
278,281,297,461
Kislingbury, Miss Emily 21,
93. 94, 100, 101, 102,
107,235,267
Keightley, A. 278
Keightley, B. 196, 198, 202, 204,
229, 238, 239, 245, 266,
267, 272, 276, 278, 282,
289, 297, 301, 307, 310,
347, 457
Keightley, A. with 198, 238 241,
253, 278, 279
Knos, A. 362, 403
Knothe, F. F. 357
Knudsen, A. F, 446, 488, 536
Kollerstrom, O. 469
Krishnamurti, J. 4
Alcyone, Star-name, of 388
A t th e F e e t o f th e M a ster,
writes 388
Be s a n t, Mrs., becomes
guardian of 388
Bharata Samaja, inaugu­
rates 471
Co nven t ion, Benares,
manages 485
Convention Lecture446, 470
Court Case 399, 401
Declaration, makes 470
Direct Path, and 484
England, for Education 391
H e r a ld o f th e S ta r, edits 391
Initiated 387
Lives investigated 383
Master K. H., taught by 387
Message of 508
Messiah, called, by the
Press 474
0\ /
578
ia
/ t
« i
SHORT HISTORY
O ^ m u U
2>
OF THE THEO^OPHICAL SOCIETY ®
/ U u jfl k P
A
C
E
Krishnamurti, J., 0. S. E., Head
of 391
503 -
469
.«. Repudiates claims
Role of
Storm, about 395
Summons to be restored to
father 396
Training, of 387, 395
Views, of 480, 493497
World Teacher, and 474
Young Workers, Federa­
tion, President of 458
Krishnavarma, Shyamji 125
Krotona 434, 436,437
Kroumess, Baroness 252
Kunz, Fritz 446, 454,522
L abberton, D. van H.
Lahiri, B. K.
Lambeth Palace Conference
Lamasery
Lankester, Sir R.
Lane-Fox, St. G. 192, 204, 219,
398
297
439
90
18
78,
241
539
50
12
386
524, 527
4, 91
248
492
382
359
341
Lansbury
Lao-Tze
Lara, de, D. E.
L a w s o f M a n u , etc.
Layton, F.
Leadbeater, C. W. L.
Adyar, in charge at
Adyar, resides at
Adyar, settles at
Advisory Board, meets
and resigns
America, lecturing in
Announces three Activi­
ties • 420
Attacks on, 380, 383, 385
397, 449
Australia, resides in 411
Avenue Road, lives at 316
Bishop, L. C. C., consecra­
ted ; Bishop Regionary
of Australia 420
Books by 316,349.398,478
Burma 218
Cairo, with H. P. B. 54, 205
Ceylon 232, 234, 242, 254
Ceylon, Gen. Secy. 253
'I tcw i ( fa jjL j'
i %\~j
Leadbeater, C. W. L., Charges
against 356, e l seq . 370
Clairvoyance of 315, 377, 383
Co-Freemasonry, j oins ;
and rewrites Rituals 416
Col. Olcott regrets hasty
judgment on 366
Continent, lives on 361
Convention Lectures 470
477, 491, 502, 507, 512
Criticisms of 496
England, with Jinaraja-
dasa 259
E. S. in Australia, Head of 440
European Section, Assist.
Gen. Secy. 316
Europe, visits 496
Executive Comm. Secy.
223, 244
India, lecturing in 356
Lecturing 326, 334, 336
L. C. C., etc., promotes 476
Liberal Catholic Church
trouble, and 428 1^-3
Liturgy, L. C. C., rewrites 440‘
Masters, sees and hears 217
Mentioned 220, 236, 244,
325,
Occult Chemistry 373
One of Twelve 469
Passes away 514
Pansil, takes 205
Presiding Bishop, L. C. C. 451
Psychic training of 226
Re-instatement 376, 379, 381
Re-trial demanded 380
Sydney troubles, and 449-51
T a lk s on th e P a th o f O ccu l­
tism , by 383
T h eo so p h ist, manager of 226
T. S. joins 187
Tours 356,391, 394, 411,
416, 420, 477, 496-7
L ea d er , T h e 413
League, Federation of Nations
for 458
„ International Brother­
hood
„ Loyalty, T. S. -
„ T. S. Muslim
Leeuw, Dr. J. J. van der
Leeuwen, a. J. H. van
A dl\rJhrw
.. C W 'L
320
445
460
497
535
4 -
INDEX 579
P A C E
Lemaitre, Mme. 250
Leo, Alan, Mr. and Mrs 389, 429
Letters o f H. P. Blavalsky to
A. P . Sinnclt 176
Letters from Col. Olcott to Miss
Arundale 219
Leuchtenberg, Duke of 13
Levi Eliphas 107, 141, 202
Lewes, G. 20
Leymarie, M. and Mme. 15, 21
118,141,164.188,201
Liberal Christian, The 1 15
Light 167,230
Light o f Asia, The 201, 289, 527
Light on the Path 52,231,240,273
Madras, Bishop of 404, 405, 408
Madras Mail, The 307
Madras Standard, The 404, 409
Magi, Chaldean 43
Magic 76, 79, 86
Mah, venerable 43
Maha-bodhi Society 288, 292
Mahachohan 48
Mahabharata 151, 331, 333
Maha-Guru 45
Mahatma Letters to A. P . Sinnclt,
The 2, 25, 34, 43, 44, 45,
46, 54, 139, 147, 148, 155
173, 202
Limbdi, Raja of
Lind-af-Hageby, Miss
Lindsay
Master of
Lippitt, Gen.
Literary Society, Benares
Lodge, Great White, or The
Lodge
African Section of
Himalayan Group
Lodge, Sir O.
London Lodge
Logos, the
Lord of the World
Loti, Pierre
Lotus Le
Lotus Bleu, Le
Lotus Circle
377, 392
251
47, 48
47-8
334
245, 249, 250
255
411
197, 198
212, 292, 508
138
175, 196, 197
49, 50
49, 387
80, 98, 124
136, 225
393
316
Forgotten
200
382, 404, 405
Lucifer 3, 77, 217, 246, 258, 260
265, 267, 268, 269, 279,
280,293,301,315,381
Becomes the Theos. Re­
view 326
Contributors to 240, 241
Incorporated in The Thco-
sophist 372
Started 239
Lutyens, Sir. E. and Lady E.
392, 393, 395, 403
Luxor, Brotherhood of 42, 70
„ Hermetic Br. of(spuri­
ous) 70, 121
Lytton, Lord, 20, 464 ; Lady 392
M
M a c k e n z i e , K .
Madhavächarya
Mahatmas
242 Letters
532 Mahmood Syed
20 Maitland, Dr. E.
19 Maitreya, Lord, the
69 Faiths, head of all
137 M. A. (Oxon.)
Ma-ji
42, 68, I23^£-Malaviya, M. M.
42 Man and his Bodies
43 Man : Fragment o f
History
Manen, J. van
Mangkoenagaran, H. H. Prince 535
Manor, The 476, 492, 527
Man, temple of true Self 44
Man : Whence, How and Whither
383, 389
Manziarly, Mme. de 447
Marcault, Prof. J
.E. 447, 477
482, 484, 522, 526, 528,
538, 539, 542
Marques, Dr. 328, 344
Martyn, T. H. 378,421,428
Diploma cancelled 456
Pamphlets 432, 440, 448
Passes away 457
Maspero, Mons. 205
Massey, C. C. 13, 20, 21, 78,
100, 101, 102, 107, 112,
120, 123, 124, 175, 186,
187, 196, 199
Massey, G. 241
Masters 42 et seq.
“ Chiefs," Their 44
Mediumship, opposed to 25
107 Portraits of 174 201,202
50 Universal knowledge 1
580 A SHORT HISTORY OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
Masters, Wisdom of the 479
Work of 55
Masters and the Path, The 46, 472
Masters as Facts and Ideals, The
42, 46
Materialism 102, 257, 543
Max, Prof. G. and Mrs. 202
Maynard, George Valentine,
Board of Control, on 124, 156
Mead, G. R. S. 213, 215, 241,
„ b 262, 267, 269, 270,271,
278,281,282,289,291,
Z l V 297,301,307,316,325,
326, 328, 334, 336, 347,
362, 383, 384, 457
Concerning H. P. B., by 213
Mecklenburg, Prince of 27
Medal of Honour 140
Medhurst, Rev. S. 383
Mediums, Notice to 74
Meerut 131,145,162
Megituwatte 106, 133, 142, 158, 242
Mennell, Dr. , 281
M ercury 333
Mesmer, Dr. Anton 12, 13
Messenger, The 434
Meuleman, Mme. 335, 347
Miracle Club 73, 74
Missionaries, opposition of 3,
128, 131,221, 404, 413
Mitchell. Mrs. Belle 283, 287, 314
Mitra, Persia 50
Mitra, Peary Chand 21, 169
Mokshada Das 292
Pramada Das 150
Modern Panarion, A. 458
Modern Priestess o f Isis, A 214
Mohini M. Chatterji 169, 173,
180, 192, 195, 196, 198,
199,200.202,211.230.245
Monachesi, Herbert D., Foun­
der 78,82,113
Montagu, E. S. 424-7
Montessori, Mme. 539
More, Sir Thomas, a master 54
Morgan, Gen. and Mrs 183,
185,186,223
Morris, Dr. K. 385
Morsier, Mde. E. de 15
Morya, Master (M). 50
Appearances of 32, 69, 97,
163, 165, 174, 184, 185
PA C E
Morya, Master(M) Cryptogram
of 289
H. P. B. and 34,65,173,218
Olcott, Col. and 225,233,271
Pandal, advises erection of 186
Rs. 100, gives 186
Secret Doctrine plan, given
by 217
Moses, Initiate, an 46
Moses, Stainton 21, 80, 98, 101, 124
Motherhood, spirit of 532
Mott Memorial Hall, 81, 82, 135
Muhammad, Prophet 50
Mukerji, S. 169
Murchie, Miss M. 446
Murray, Mrs. F. 140
Muttuswamy, Judge 171
Myers, F. W. H. 22, 178, 187,
198,199,211,214,216
Mysteries, Eleusinian 43
Restoration of 403
Revival of 477
Samothracian 43
Mystery o f the Ages, The 196
Masonry 477
N
N â c â r j u n a 50
Naidu, lyalu 170, 176, 203
Narainswâmi Iyer, K. 326, 370, 390
Nârâyan, Master Jupiter 53
Narayaniah 395
Neff, Miss M. K. 472
Neo-Platonists 82
New India 38, 410, 412, 414,
423, 455, 481, 485, 488
Forfeited 419
Security demanded 418
Started 409
Newton, Henry J. 78, 79, 82,
83, 86, 113, 300
Founder 78, 113
Librarian 84
Treasurer 82, 83
New York Daily Graphic, Col.
Olcott writes for 40, 57,
61, 73
New York Echo 117
New York Sun 40, 71, 73, 88,
119, 132, 271, 274, 275, 320
Col. Olcott writes for 40
/ lit'')?-¿Vo
m
INDEX 581
PAGE
N ew Y ork T rib u n e, Col. Olcott,
Agricultural editor of 37
N ew s a n d N otes 479,496
Niemand, Jasper 243,273
N igh t S id e o f N atu re, quoted 18
N in eteen th C en tu ry M ir a cles,
quoted, Ii, e t seq . to 166
Nityananda, J. 383, 387, 393
Non-Co-operation Movement
(Ind.) 435, 442, 447
Norway and Sweden, King of 283
Nubar Pasha, Hon. 205
Nus Eugene 141
Nusservanji, Jamshed M. 502, 534
Nyssens, Dr. 362
0
O cea n o f T h eo so p h y 297
Occult sciences, adepts in 25
Occultism 25,193
H. P. B. outlines 73
Oriental schools of 60
" Occult Room” prepared 177
Rebuilt 204
O c c u lt C h em istry 361, 373, 378
O ccu lt W orld , T h e, 43, 147, 157, 173
Od, Odyle 12
O’Donovan, makes medallion
of H. P. B. 104
O . E . L ib ra ry c r it ic 448
Olcott, Col. H. S. 456,754
.Amherst, at 36
Arya Samai, address to
115134
Accident 363
Address, Inaugural 82,165
Ancestry 35
Appellate Board, appoints 262
Appreciations of 37
Arms, coat of 35
Activities, early 36, 37
Bar, admitted to 39
Belief, personal 85
Berlin 314
Besant, Mrs. meets 261
„ ,, nominates, as
Pres. 366
Buddhist Defence Com­
mittee, delegate of 191
Buddhists, Ceylon, assists 181
PAGE
Olcott, Col. H. S., Buddhist
Educational Movement,
starts 158, 161
Buddhist Shrines 292
B o m b a y Q a z ettc, writes for 129
H. P. B., trained by 58
H. P. B., opinion on 219
Burma 218, 219, 220
Ceylon, and 155, 172, 232,
242, 265, 260
Circular 104
Chittenden, at 10, 40
Credentials 163
Christianity, debates on 144
Discretionary powers 104
Education, and 161
Family, revisits 38
Foreign Order, No. 1 124
Founder 78
Fuente Legacy, and 347, 349
Gotra, Brahman, initiated
into 180
Healing 36, 172, 184
Hindu Boys’ Societies, and
298, 308
1
1
1 246, 344
Inner Group, urged toform233
Isis, helps with 93
John Brown’s execution,
attends 37
Journalistic work 40
Japan, and 254,258,261,284
Judge case, and 291, 298,
299, 301, 307, 308, 313
K. H. Master, letter from 248
Legal practice 39
Library, transfers books
to 244 ; and 527
Lectures, early 67, 81, 86,
128, 138, 149
Master, reproached by 166
„ Message from 287
„ Reply from 130
„ Visited by 95, 366,
367, 368
Marriage 38
Mentioned 434
Mesmerism, lectures on I39
„ Studies 314
N ew Y ork S u n , writes for 132
O ld D ia ry L ea v es, starts
iU a
* L x
Harijan 376
Passes away 369
Passport 131
Past lives 314, 342
Paris, in 248, 314
Philadelphia, in 64
Presidency, “ in Commis-
sion ” 272
Pupil of Master 43
Queensland, in 277
Resignation 228, 271, 276,
582 A SH O RT HiSTORY OF T H E THEOSOPH ICAL SOCIETY
v
'
t
t f
a 2-lb pace P
A
C
E
Olcott, Col. H. S., Pansil 143, 192 " ° r^ rs-" Master Morya, from 63
Pariah Schools. 304 ; Pan- Master Serapis, from 63. /2
chama 315, 329, 332, Mo hi ni and Nobm,
345 349 through 174
P a r i a h Schools, called Olcott to cease healing, to 184
Sanctuary, to construct 177
Society, to form 75
Tuitit Bey, from 74
Orpheus 45, 48. 536
O’Sullivan, J. L., H. P. B.’s
letter to 79
Ostermann, A. 347, 362, 390
Owen, Robert Dale 19
p 6 r ^ f M 1
*
P age, Elliott B. 200
Paget. Lady F. 334
P a l l M a ll G a z ette 120
Palm, Baron de 86, 87, 88. 275
Palmer, Miss S. E. 329
Pancoast, Dr. Seth 113, 114
Pandurang Shankar, First book
for Library, presents 129
Pansil, Founders take 143, 356
Leadbeater, C. W., takes 205
Olcott, Col. empowered to
give 192
Pantheon 228
Parsi Archaeological Society 168
Parsons, G. F. 200
Parthenon 205
Pascal, Dr. T. 317,333.362
Paschkoff, Countess 104
P a th o f D iscip lesh ip , T h e 315, 316
P a th , T h e 237, 245, 246, 258,
262, 111, 273, 286, 293,
294, 296
Paul, St. Initiate, an 46
Pentland, Lord 422
Penzig, Prof. O. 362
P e o p le fr o m th e O th e r W o rld I7
40, 57, 63. 65, 73
P e o p le o f th e B lu e M o u n ta in s 183
P e t it P a r is ie n L e 445
Petrie, Flinders 318
P e r f e c t W a y, T h e 187, 197
Perfection, Star of 76, 77
Phenomena 10, 142, 170, 172,
177, 179, 181, 203, 220
Philadelphia 63
Philalethes, Eugenius 54
Philological Committee, formed 137
287, 288
„ Withdraws 288, 290
Rheumatism 314
S. P.R. and 198, 199, 200,
211,212
Spiritualism, and 2, 23
S p iritu a list, letter to 86
Surveys, History of T. S. 319
Theosophy, lectureson 168, 244
Teacher, loyalty to 219
T. S., idea of forming 77
Tinnevelly, tree planting 160
Tribute to 330
Tours 168, 180, 182, 184,
225, 243,283, 296, 304,
319, 321,329, 334,340,
343, 363
U. S. A. 283, 284
War Record 38
Zoroastrian lecture 168
Old, Walter R. 267, 279, 281,
291, 294, 299, 302, 304
O ld D ia r y L ea v es, quoted or re­
ferred to 56, 60, 63, 79,
90,95, 109, 125, 129, 147,
154, 159, 181, 243,286,
287, 288,294, 299, 301,
302, 303, 309, 313, 316,
363, 369
Order of the Star in the East
390, 391, 415
“ Orders," Bavaji, to 222
Calcutta, to go 170
Ceylon, to go 142, 155
Colombo, to go 181
O
j « (£WH «I í^ Li Ç
INDEX 583
{/2íuj f. £vÄ* liíJuí' (£g.
PA C E
P h ilo s o p h y o f l h e B h a g a v a d
Q ila , The 234
P h ilo s o p h y o f M y sticism .-1 113
P h o en ix , proposed 173, 488
Phonograph 124
Piddington, A. B. 451
Pierart, Prof. Z. T. 14
P is lis S o p h ia 316
Planck, Mrs. Campbell ver 245, 273
Jasper Niemand 245, 293
Mrs. A. Keightley 273
Planetary Spirit 44
Plato, Initiate an 46
Podmore, Frank 199, 211
Point Loma 320,341,501,504
Polak, G. 435
Pole, D. Graham 389
Pomar, Duchesse de 15, 188, 195
Poona 168
P o o r P a r ia h , T h e 345
Portraits, Masters 203
Potet, Baron J. du 140
Poulle, Soundra 186
Powell, C. F. 259, 265
Pran Nath 186
P r a sn o tta r a 276, 319, 327, 330, 331
Prel, Baron and Baroness du 202
Proclus 53
Pryse, James 267
Psychic Club, Simla 147
P s y c h is c h e S tu d ien 12, 13. 16
P u r p o s e o f T h eo so p h y , T h e 231
Purucker, Dr. G. de (Point
Loma,) 495, 498, 501, 504
Puysegur, Marquis de 13
a
Q u e e n ’s Hall, 318, 325, 327,
328, 333, 336, 337, 345,
350, 351, 353, 371, 372,
384, 392, 395, 403, 409,
432, 443, 462, 463, 469,
474, 479, 482, 483, 490
R
R a d h a k r i s h n a n , Sir S. 529
Râja, Dr. Kunhan, Curator
Adyar Library 520
Rajputana 129
Ransom, Mrs. J. 298, 465, 476,
505, 534
Ransom, Capt. S. 406, 476
Rao, T. Ramchandra 390, 406, 454
Rao, Sanjiva 485, 497
Rakoczi, Hungarian Master,
Comte de St. Germain,
th e In c arnations of, 42
Linguist 53
Master, Angels, w o r k s
with 53, 318
Ramanujâchârya 50, 53
Ramaswamier, S. '174, 177
Ramaswami Iyer, Sir C. P. 512
R â m â y a n a 344
Râmiah, C. 223
Ranganâtha Mudaliar, A. 507
Rays, Heads of the 50 e t sea .
Rea, Miss H. 402
R e a l a n d th e U n rea l, T h e 215
R eb u s 18
Reddi, B. Ranga 171, 376, 390
Reichenbach, Baron von 12
Reidel, K. 507
Reincarnation, debated 14
Campaign 482
R ein ca r n a tio n 291
R e l i g i o -P h ilo s o p h ic a l J o u r n a l
118, 167, 273
R e m in is ce n c e s o f H . P . B . 228
Research Centre, and Seminars 522
Research into Mystic Tradi-
tions Com. 318
Reveal family 347
R e v ie w o f R e o ie w s 256
R e v u e d e l ’E u ro p e 17
R e v u e d e s H a u te E tu d es 249
R e v u e S p iritu a liste, L a 14
R e v u e S p irite, L a 14
R e v u e T h éo so p h iq u e, L a 255
Richardson, Dr. A. 328 330, 382
Richet, Ch. 15
R ig V eda 129
Riko, A. J. 21
Rivail, Hippolite L. D., name
of Allan and Kardec 14
Robertus, Monk, the 53
Rochas, Col. de 314
Rochester, Knocking 9, 11, 19, 39
Roest Dr. P. K. 513
Rogers, E. D. 21
f<D
l
{-¿iu
s1 ivo'lufij I'JIII o 2 s'
yv/ -, ,-j.nv T *v— - \ i -w tu -i
, „M fi XQI
'584 A SH O RT HISTORY O F TH E TH EOSOPH ICAL SOCIETY
Rogers, L. W. 394, 421, 437,
438, 446,475, 502, 507, 511
Rohan, Princesse de 334
Rohit Mehta 541
Rosencreutz, Christian 53
Rosicrucianism, ‘ Hiras ’ on 71, 72
Ross Scott 125,129,162.165
Round Table 482
Row, Sir T. Mahdava 170
Row Raghunath 207, 221, 222
223, 224, 254, 296
Row Sreenivasa 223, 234, 254
Row T. Subba 170, 178, 192,
194, 206, 210, 221, 223,
226, 228. 232, 234, 236,
246, 252, 265, 317
2-Z Medal instituted 189, 362
Recipients of Medal 190
R o y a l M a so n ic C y c lo p e d ia , T h e 107
Royo, A. M. 343
Russak, Mrs. M. 356, 364, 366,
373, 394, 396, 398
Russell, G. (A. E.) 384
Russell, Lord 199
Russia, Spiritualism in 16
Rukmini Devi Shrimati 4
American Y. T., elected
head 518
Convention Lectures 481,485
European Federation, Y.T.,
President 524
Lectures 526, 532, 534
Marries Dr. Arundale 440
Mentioned 465, 476, 477,
482, 529, 530, 532, 533, 534
One of Twelve 469
St. Michael, b eco mes
head of 511
Tour 518,524,530
Young people and 511
Young Theosophist, Pre­
sident 533, 541
World Mother, dedicated
to 486
S a d a s i v a Iyer, Sir 446
Sages, Tree, Branches of 45
Sanskrit Samaj 150
S a r a s a v i S a n d a r e sa 159
Sargent, Epes ^,69
r ^ . i a
C
(A
T
>
Sat Bhai Order 98,99,100,131
S a tu r d a y R e v ie w , T h e 163
Scharlieb, Dr. M. 218
Schleiden, Dr. H. 202, 307, 335, 398
Schmiechen Hermann 201-202
Schrader, Dr. O. 352
Schure, Ed. 15
Schuurman, Mr. and Mrs. 347, 363
Schwarz. A. 364,375,376,511
S c ie n c e O ccu lte , L a 231
S c ie n c e o f th e S a cra m en ts, T h e 440
School, Alexandrian, Neo-
Platonist 43
School, Besant Memorial 516, 525
Scott-Elliott, W. 316
Scouts Assoc., Indian Boys 442
Scr a p b ook s 16, 57, 61, 69, 70,
74, 75. 83, 84. 85,96, 101,
104, 113, 117, 119,217,
341, 342, 447, 501
S e c r e t D o ctrin e, T h e 3, 45. 46,
54. 194, 195, 198, 203,
217, 227, 229, 234-9, 241
247, 248, 249, 250, 258,
262, 267, 268, 317, 354,
457, 526
Adyar Edition of 540
Besant Dr., reviews 256
Commenced 132
First Edition of 254
Isis, a new version of 194
M. S. sent to Subba Row 228
Reprinted 291, 297, 317
Rewritten 236
Writing of 235
Seervai, K. N. 139
Selever, Miss F. 523, 533
Sen, Keshub Chandra 185
Sen, Norendranath 169, 173,
186
Serapis, Master 51, 63, 74, 96
Brotherhood of Luxor
and 42
S e v e n P r in c ip le s o f M a n , T h e 291
Shamballa 47, 499
Sharpe, Mrs. S.M. 347, 458
“ Shells " 58
Sheppard, W. G. 438
Shiva aspect, of Destroyer 47
Shri Krishna, and the Lord
Maitreya 50
“ Shrine ”the 179,213
u n
/Y W
/ V ' INDEX
PAGE
Shrines at Adyar 471
Shroff, K. M 247
Siam, King of 143
Sidgwick, H. 21, 187, 211, 212, 214
Silva, dej. R. 142, 158
Simla, and tea-cup phenomena 146
Simmons, Dr. C. E. 78, 82, 115
Sinha, Purnendu N. 297, 346
Sinnett, A. P. 3, 43, 187, 191-2
227, 229, 231,240, 251,
259, 269. 270, 282, 313,
317, 347, 351, 370, 371, 508
Correspondence with 127
Criticises Society 372
E so ter ic B u d d h ism , contro­
versy 1
94
Founder(s) visit 136, 137,
145, 146, 147, 148, 151,
168, 198
Founders, feelings con-
cerning 188
General Council, on 157
Gift, £ 5,000 to 444
Inner Group, and 187, 252
In cid en ts, starts 230
Link with Master K. H. 51
London Lodge, Vice-Pre­
sident 197 ; President
229 : and 241 ; Position
of 251, 255
Master, K.H., corresponds
with 157
O ccu lt W orld 157
Passes away 444
Phenomena, sees 179
P io n e e r , and 163, 173
Resigns 384 ; Rejoins 392
Simla Branch, and 162,
167, 174
S. P. R. and 187, 199, 211
T. S., joins 138
Vice-President, T. S. 313
Ceases to be 373 ; Re-be-
comes 392
Sinnett, Mrs. 227, 231
Sitaram Shastri, A. K. 376, 383
Slade, Dr. Henry 13, 18, 74, 166
Smith, Prof. J. 165,166
Smythe, A. E. S. 452
S o c i é t é Scientifique des
Occultistes de France I5
39
PAGE
S o c i é t é Théo s o ph i q u e
d’Orient et d’Occident
La 15
Society for Psychical Research 230
Committee 211
Formed 188, 198 ; America 231
Members 21
Olcott, Col. and 198, 199, 200
Phenomena, examinations
re 211,212,213.214
Report 214, 236, 256
(S.P.R.) 200, 214, 215,216,
230, 297
Solovioff, (Solovyoff), V.S. 203,
214,235
Somnambulism 13
Sons of India 378, 379
S o r g h u m a n d I m p h ce 36
Sotheran, Charles 69, 78, 79,
81,82,83,84,103,114
Spedalieri, Baron 141, 195
Spirit Planetary 44
S p ir it W orld , T h e 65
Spiritists 14
S p ir itu a l S cie n tist, T h e 21, 67,
68, 70, 71. 74, 75, 79, 80, 85
Spiritualism 7, II, 16, 102
Begins 9
England, in 18
France, in I3
Free Love and Free Plat­
form in 24
Germany, in 12
H. P. B. on 25
Kate Fox, owes birth to 1I
Mediums in U. S. A., and 23
Modern 2
New Dispensation, a 9, 23
Occultism, and 25
Olcott against 81
Schools of 23
Vicissitudes of 7
S p iritu a lism a n d S c ie n c e I7
S p iritu a list, T h e 17, 62, 79
Spiritualistic Movement, the 22
Spiritualists 14, 20, 24, 69
Alarmist 86
Associations of 20, 21
Olcott’s Circular to 69
Spirits, Seven 47
S p irits B o o k , T h e 14
“Spy "trouble 130, 131, 132
586
f l e o f i ? ? ?
A SH O RT HISTORY OF TH EJTH EO SO PH IC A L SOCIETY
Stack, J. H.
S ta n d a r d , T h e
S ta n z a s o f D z ya n
Stead, W. T.
Stevens, H. M.
Steiger, Mme. de
Stokes, Dr. H. N.
S to r y o f th e G rea t W ar, T h e
S to r y o f A tlan tis, T h e
Studd, S.
S tu d y in C o n scio u sn ess, A
Srinivasa, Judge
Srinivasa Murti, Dr. 500, 519,
520, 534
Sri Ram, N. 455, 509
Subbarayudu 383
Subramanier, Sir S. 223, 373,'
392, 407, 427
Sumangala, High Priest 106,
133, 142, 161, 192,226,
258,265, 276, 329, 352
Suzuki, Prof. 538
Syria, Masters live in 54
T
PACE 1 \ ^ pace
200, 211 T h e o s o p h ica l F o ru m , T h e T il,
91 495, 496, 501
254, 255 T h e o s o p h ica l R eu iew , T h e 93,
256 325, 326, 333, 345, 370,
78, 79 372, 384, 481, 482, 488
175, 201 T heosophical Society, T he 56.
457 75. 76, 85, 86,91,98, 102,
331 110, 113, 116, 118, 119,
316 121, 124, 130, 157, 159,
322, 421 193, 231, 255, 282, 398,
345, 354 428, 540, 543, 544
186 Alliances 152
Anniversaries, 4th, 135 ;
6th, 167 ; 7th, 174; 12th,
244,—see end of each
year for the others ; later
known as International
Conventions
Appellate Board 262
Applicants 194
A rti cles of Association
350; quoted 419
Attacks upon 86, 167, 385, 397
Badge, of 85
Board of Control, Adyar 192
„ America
T agore, Sir Johendro M. 169
„ Rabindranath 427
T a lk s on th e P a th o f O ccu ltism 46
Talks on the New Education 529
T a lk s w ith a C la ss 559
Taraporewala, I. J. S. 529
Tätya, Tookaräm 141, 175,
203, 232, 247, 258, 271,
272,317
Temperance Society, Aryan 135
Telang, K. T„ Orientalist 136
Terry, W. H. 21, 164
Thackersey, Mulji 98, 103, 115,
125, 129, 130, 131, 145
Thebaw 111; King of Burma
218, 221
Theophilus, Rev. A. 172
T h eo so p h ic M e s sen g er , T h e 377
Theosophical Activities 554, c l seq .
T h e o s o p h ica l G lossa ry , A 291
Theosophical Order of Service
381, 419, 461, 539, 542
Theosophical PublishingHouse 132
„ „ Company 239
„ „ London 494
20°, 237
Brotherhood of Humanity,
and 105. 155
Buddhism, and 255
Buddhist Division of 259
Charters, early 141, 164,
245
GermanSectioncancelled398
Sydney Lodge cancelled 456
Circulars, early, and 69,
70. 104
Conventions, started in
Europe 282
Coulomb conspiracy, and
209 e l seq .
Council, Advisory Adyar 253
„ „ Europe 269
„ General 137, 139,
140, 155, 162, 192, 237,
244, 253, 313, 398, 443, 540
Definition, early, of 78
Diamond Jubilee of 529
East and West of 15
Esoteric Section formed 253
Fees abolished and restor­
ed 253
INDEX 587
PAGE
Theosophical Society, The,
Fellows, status of 157
„ classification of 229
Finance Co mmi ttee
(early), of 228
First Section, of 163
Formation of 76, 78, 79 e t seq .
Foreign Order, No. 1(to
America) 124
Founders 78, 79, 108, 131.
132, 146, 148, 156, 17o,
171, 183, 224
Freedom of Thought in 490
Headquarters, first, of 81
Hermetic 198
FI u d d 1estone Gardens,
Adyar, acquired forper­
manent Hdqrs. 171
Inaugural Address, (Col.
Olcott’s) 82,132,363,364
Incorporation 224,352
Inner Group of 206
Jubilee Fund 533
“ Link ” Society 108,120
Library of 129, 135
Masters, seek Them in 56
„ Unbroken link
with 220
„ Views on 154
Masonic body, proposal to
constitute as 103
Medal, T. Subba Row 189
Meeting, first under name
of T. S. 80
„ „ in Bombay 138
Membership multiple 198
Memorandum, H. P. B.’s 193
Motto adopted 84, 151
National Societies, or Sec­
tions 554
Name chosen 79, 250
Neutrality of 414
Objects of 5, 81, 82, 105,
155, 263, 545 e t seq
Officers, Executive for 1880,
152
„ First 82
Order of Service 481, 529
Parent Society, as 79, 103,
108, 120, 142, 157, 162,
177, 186, 191, 193, 262, 324
PA CE
Theosophical Society, The,
Parent Society, Name drop-
ped 253
Parsi Section of 127
Rules of 545, e t seq .
Secession in A m e r i c a
(U. S. A.) 291-318
Title of 81
T h eo so p h ist, T he, started I34
Trial, first, of 88
Viceroy concerning 147
Workers, first Additional
Voluntary 177
World Congress, first 444
World movement, a 1
Theosophical Society, H e r ­
metic 198
Thesophical Society of East
and West 15
Thesophical Workers, League,
of 283
Theosophists, Jewish 542
T h e o s o p h y a n d th e N ew P s y ­
c h o lo g y 354
T h eo so p h y (Eng.) 440
T h eo so p h y in A u stra lia 456
T h eo so p h y in I n d ia 452
Thompson. Rev. E. W.404, 413
T h ro u gh S to rm to P e a c e 297
Tingley, Mrs. K. A., and Judge 306
- Attacks by 341, 384, 397
Avenue Rd. 19; purchases 333
Mentioned 324,495
Passes away 321
School for Revival of the
Mysteries, founds 320
U ni ver sal Brotherhood
and T. S. forms 321
World Crusade, by 320
Towards Democracy League
437, 438
Tremeschini, M, 15
T rib u n e, T h e, Lahore 163
Trifonov, N. 534
Tripet, G. 531
T rip itik a , presented to T. S. 144
Trollope, T. A. 20
T ru th seek er 166
Tsong-Kha-pa 50
Tuitit Bey 70, 125
Tulsi Das 98
Tyndall, Prof, 20
U 'T~ U £ 7 ('/¡yJ ((/tyh ,(Itw ' jfoJfMuty £
,
588 A SH O RT HISTORY O F TH E THEOSOPH ICAL SOCIETY
f ?—
'
U n i t e d S t a t e s of America, Kar-
ma of 58
U n so lv ed M y ster y , T he, Master
Illarion, by 69
U p a n ish a d s 194,316
Upendranath Basu 330,382
University, Hindu 446
V
V a c h a s p a t i , T. T. a c c e p t ,
H. S. O. into gotra 180
V ahan, T h e 268, 350, 353, 395,
403, 409, 424, 433
Vaivasvata Manu 49
Valley, Happy 475, 478, 494
,. Ojai 475,478
Varley, Prof. C. F. 20
Vaughan, Thomas, or, Eugenius
Philalethes 54
Vavra, Miss J. 533
V edas, the 194
V eil o f Isis, T h e 94
Venetian Master 51
Venkataramayya, T. A. 180
Venus 45
Lords of Flame, from 47
Vishishtadvaita, philosophy 50
Vishnu, aspect of, as preserver 47
Vizianagram, Maharaja of I36, I37
V oice o f th e S ile n c e , T h e 52, 54,
255. 257, 316, 383
Von Vay, Baroness A. 13, 21
Vyâsa 48
W
W a c h t m e i s t e r , Countess 185,
198, 227. 228, 235, 241,
246, 247, 267, 283, 284,
294, 297, 298, 310, 319,
324,326, 330, 334, 389
Wadia, B. P. 375, 422, 431,
436, 437
Internment 422, 423
Released 425
Resigns 451
Wadhwän, Raja of, Adyar
visits 176, 192
Wagner, Prof. N. A. 16, 17
p a c e
W ak e U p, In d ia 406
Wallace. Prof. A. R. 19,39,123
Wardall, Cap. M. 481,498
Warrington. A. P. 342, 348, 398
433. 434, 436,437,449, 515,516
Acting-President 510
Vice-President 486, 504, 506
Watkin, Miss G„ Adyar Libra­
rian 520
Weber, Baron E. von 202, 205
Wedgwood, Rt. Rev. J. 1. 4,
347, 396, 398, 420, 429,
450, 451
Convention Lectures, 470,
484, 491
One of Twelve 469
Weeks, Miss N. E. 313
Weisser Hirsch, group at 202
Wesak, Ceylon celebrations 245
National holiday 204
Wesley, John 19
Westbrook, Judge, R. B. 82, 114
W estm in ster G a z ette 305, 308, 309
White Lotus Day 290, 349, 408
W hy I b e c a m e a T h eo so p h ist 257
W h y I d o n o t retu rn to I n d ia 207, 222
Whyte. G. H. 347, 396
Mr. and Mrs 421
Wiggin, Rev. J. H.79, 82, 86, 115
Wilde, Oscar 198
Wilder, Prof. A. 96,116
Williams, Sir Monier 125
Willson, Miss A. J. 304, 324,
376, 509
Wirnbridge, E. 106, 109, 124,
125, 139, 142, 145, 156
Windust, Mrs. 347, 389
Wittgenstein, Prince Emil de
Sayn 17, 21
Woman’s Education League 284
Wodehouse, E. A. 485
Wood, E., Convention L e c ­
tures 497, 502, 512
Manifesto 512, 515
Nominated President 511
Recording Secy. 493
T. E. T„ Secy. 402
Tours 447, 461, 466, 471
Woodward, F. L. 355
Woods, Miss C. 439
World Brotherhood 471
INDEX 589
World Government, in Mys­
teries 470
W orld , I n n er G o v ern m en t o f th e,
quoted 46
World, Lord of the 47
World Mother 483, 486
World, Occult Government of 391
World Parliament of Religions
293, 293. 296
World Religion 470, 474
World Teacher L for 474, 473, 480
W orld T h eo so p h y ' 499, 501
World University 470, 477, 482
Wright, C. F. 267,281,287,296
Wright, G. E. 295,296,313,342
Wu Ting-Fang, Dr. 454
Wyld, Dr. G. 19,21,22,107,
123, 124
X
X l F R E 270, 362, 447
Y adunandan Prasad 477, 485
Yarker, J. 98,99,103,107
Yoga Philosophy 273
Y o ga S u tra s, Patanjali 175
YogaVidya 121,134,149,193
Young Men’s Indian Assoc. 410
Y o u n g T h eo so p h ists, 7h e 521, 529
Young Theosophists 472,512,
524, 529, 532, 541
Aims of 527, 541
Arundale, Dr. and Mrs.
leaders of 522
Federations of 532, 533, 541
First World Fed. of 526
Geneva, at 532
Youth Conference 468
Youth Movement, Theos. 536
Z a n d e r , G. 270
Z o h a r 43
Zöllner, Prof 13, 113
Zorn, G. 270
Zoroaster, First 48
A i nAAMT 3 U
ERRATA
Page 27 Line 6 For forbode r e a d forebode
„ 10 „ Mothor’s r e a d Mother’s
54 22 „ temporally r e a d temporarily
62 *
» 21 „ became r e a d become
78 »
* 23 „ Mrs. Hardinge Britten’s name should be added
to the list
83 *
* 18 ,, W. J. Bouton r e a d J. W.
103 II 28 „ thoughout r e a d throughout
107 », 35 „ Royal Masonic Encyclopaedia r e a d Cyclopedia
108 3 „ forwent r e a d forewent
115 4 „ H. M. Stevens name omitted ; no information
available
159 „ 13 „ Six Lux r e a d Sit Lux
169 „ 8 „ Culcutta r e a d Calcutta
171 Footnote Sambiah Chetty was not one of the two sons,
but a family connection.
185 Line 27 For Atmaran r e a d Atmaram
186 „ 13 „ Norenda Nath r e a d Norendra Nath
197 9 „ Mrs. Kingsford r e a d Dr.
231 *
» 23 „ Relgion r e a d Religion
242 »* 16 „ Harsinghi r e a d Harsinghji
265 3 „ Unswering r e a d unswerving
305 It 32 „ Close quote marks at dangerous
362 t* 18 „ For Zifre r e a d Xifre
376 It 15 „ Wilson r e a d Willson
385 18 „ build r e a d built
388 It 30 „ Gwalia r e a d Gwalior
400 It 11 „ delared r e a d declared
401 •I 24 „ Mr. Besant r e a d Mrs.
405 I» 32 „ longue r e a d tongue
440 *
• 31 „ from r e a d form
ERRA TA 591
P a g e 4 4 2 L in e 2 2 F o r M in io r it y read m in o r ity
„ 521 „ 13 Delete o n e w a s
„ 5 2 7 „ 2 0 „ s e c o n d it
„ 5 3 9 „ 31 C o r r e c t t itle o f th e b o o k ‘ S y m b o lic Y o g a ’
f.
a .1 ¿ A fri C
/
)
I U -^0
1} (. y l/ w i.
U b i
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
AND
THE SECRET DOCTRINE
It is not possible to understand Theosophy or to
appreciate the part played by The Theosophical Society
without some acquaintance with that magnificent work
of H. P. Blavatsky, T he Secret Doctrine.
To enter into the fellowship of readers and students
of T he S ecret Doctrine is to understand what it is
that has so irresistibly attracted men and women to T he
T heosophical Society, and why it is that so many
have remained faithful to The Society’s determination to
seek in freedom L ife and LlGHT. H. P. Blavatsky’s
work has been the rallying-ground of Theosophists in
every country. The Society which she and Col. Olcott
founded has its Headquarters at Adyar, Madras, and
there The Theosophical Publishing House is happy to
announce the issue of the A dyar Edition of The
SECRET Doctrine, published now in six convenient
volumes.
T his Standard Edition of T he Secret Doctrine
now includes a revised Index, an excellent Glossary,
Bibliography, Student’s Notes, an account of How The
Secret Doctrine was written, and a short Biography of
H. P. Blavatsky. Further, as the Adyar Library has a
copy of nearly all the books referred to by H. P. Bla­
vatsky, an extensive verification has been made of the
many quotations in T he SECRET DOCTRINE.
ADYAR EDITION
OF
THE SECRET DOCTRINE
