{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__pelley___hidden_empire.pdf","mytitle":"Hidden Empire","mylang":"de"}
DEN
IRE
Out of Their Own Mouths
To the New York Herald Tribune:
Mr. Treiater stated in his letter in your paper
that the Jewiab people fonn a very small percent-
age of the Communists in America. He states that
"in Chicago, with a Jewiab population of 400,-
000, there are about 150 Communists."
I myself am Jewiah, and I come from Chicago.
I spent thirteen years in that city. Approximately
98 percent of us are Communiats, and we are not
ashamed of it. It is a system laid down to us by
our great leader, Karl Marx, and only the cow-
ards bide behind "democracy" or "American-
iam." Furthermore, I think Mr. Treilter .boWd
check up OIl his figures more c:loaeIy if be would
give out information.
SARAH FINKELSTEIN.
Washington, D. c., Dec. 22, 1938.
WALK up to the average man anywhere in the
United States today anel ask him to tell you what
he thinks is wrung with our country. He will uniformly
reply: "Too many screwy ideas in Govemment! If the
politicians would only stop trying to mess in every-
thing and run our lives for us, \-ve might get to work
and pull the country from its bog-hole!"
Say to him: "So its the politicians that are messing
and wrecking everything?"
"Yes," he will growl, "·-the politicians and the Jews!"
"Ah!" you exclaim. "So you're beginning to feel that
Jews somehow have a hand in all this Federal mis-
chief and bankruptcy?"
And seven out of ten of such average men will close the
interview by growling: "Well, at least there's too many
running things, anyhow!"
Thus it becomes apparent that anti-Semitism is on an
alarming increase in this nation, and for few other rea-
sons than that "there are too many Jews running
things!" In other words, by the mere fact of too many
Hebrews' being given public office or ascending into
places of business and financial power, an animosity to-
ward Jews is automatically provoked and anti-Semit-
ism explodes of itself.
Now, what we should be interested in knowing is : Does
this sudden influx of Jews into public and business life
come about because T
ews are "smarter" than Gentiles,
or because there is some great racial program aioot of
which Gentiles as a people are utterly ignorant?
Suppose we examine this mighty question and see what
we learn to our shocking enlightenment. ...
"WHAT DO THESE HEBREWS HERE?"
"We shall surround our government with a
whole world of Economists. That is the reason
why economic sciences form the principal sub-
ject of the teaching given by the Jews."
-The Protocols of the Elders 0/ Zion
"Have they done it?"
BERNARD M. BARUCH-Unofficial President
HENRY MORGENTHAU, JR.-Secretary of the Treasury
FELIX FRANKFURTER-Justice Supreme Court
MORDECAI EZEKIEL-Department 0/Agriculture
NATHAN R. MARGOLO-Department of the Interior
LOUIS DOMERATSKY-Department of Commerce
HAROLD NATHAN-Department of Justice
ABRAHAM D. H. KAPLAN-Economist, Labor Dept.
WILLIAM C. BULLITT-Ambassador to France
2
JUDGE SAMUEL ROSENMAN-Brain-Trust Founder
HENRIETTA S. KLOTZ-Assist. to Secretary of the Treasury
LEO PASLOVSKY-Assistant to Secretary of State
DAVID A. SALMON-Chief Division of Communications,
State Department
ISADOR LUBIN-Commissioner Labor Statistics
A. J. HIRSCH-Chief. Bureau of Census
BEN]. V. COHEN-General Counsel, Nat. Power Policy Com.
NATHAN STRAUSS-Chief. Housing Administration
A. ]. ALTMEYER-el,airman, Society Security Board
ISADORE S. FALK-Principal Medical Economist
W. MORRIS LEISERSON-Chairman, National Railroad
Mediation Board
NATHAN WITT-Secretary, NLRB
DAVID SAPOSS--Chief Economist, NLRB
GEORGE KAMENOW-Labor Conciliator
DAVID E. LILIENTHAL-Director, TVA
BERNARD I. ROSE-Secretary, TVA
W. SEIGAL-Federal Art Project, WPA
H. G. ALSBERG-Fedcral Writers Project, WPA
PROF. LEO WOLMAN-Labor Strike Board
E. A. GOLDENWEISER-Federal Reserve Director
HERBERT FEIS--"Brains of the State Department"
SIDNEY HILLMAN-Labor Advisory Board
SAMUEL UNTERMEYER-Securities Commission
MORRIS WATSON-Federal Theater Project Director
GERARD SWOPE-Advisor to Commerce Dept. and Social
Security Board.
fl A booklet listing the names of nearly 300 Jews who have
gained to the most vital positions in our Federal Government can
be obtained by sending 25c to The Pelley Publishers, Box 2630,
Asheville, N. C., for a copy of WHAT EVERY CONGRESSMAN
SHOULD KNOW. Read the whole list and be appalled!
3
is suddenly wrong with our United States?
When we were boys and girls, our fathers
and mothers knew no such vexations. They
had unemployment to contend with, in the in-
dustrial scene from time to time, it was true.
Occasionally they suffered from Panics. But
after a matter of months, or a shift in political
parties, the bad effects of such strictures wore away. They were
reasonably honest and God-fearing folk, our fathers and mothers.
They raised their families as best they could-and we are living
atrestments that it was a pretty good way-and respected and
upheld their government.
Suddenly, however, all this is changed! A World War had to
be liquidated, and in the wake of liquidation came speculation.
The stock-market crashed and a panic turned into a lengthy
Depression. For seven or eight years that Depression has been
getting worse. It has been getting so bad, in fact, that palliatives
to halt it are now assuming the aspects of a basic alteration in
our Republican form of government.
Suddenly it dawns upon the American people that not only is
the form of their government being altered surreptitiously, but
into nearly three hundred key positions in the Federal government
have been slipped outstanding Israelites. Not only have our-
standing Israelites been slipped into key positions, but the rank
and file of the Washington bureaucracies are staffed with thou-
sands of Jews. And as if this were not insufferable enough to
a citizenry predominantly Gentile, the greater portion of those
Jews thus given jobs are pro-Communistic and pro-Soviet in their
ideas of public management.
Gradually the whole American scene is changing-or being
changed!-to conform to the notions of this Yiddish Influx.
It wants Communistic; Bolshevism to replace Constitutional gov-
ernment here in the United States, and having gained to power
through the pro-Jewish Roosevelt, it is brazenly and callously
working overtime to see that it happens.
4
The antics of this great Yiddish Influx have been so eccentric,
and its objectives so alien, that men of sense and sagacity-with-
in the government and out of it-long-since began a line of
quiet investigation to find out if the whole of it was merely the
phenomenal inclinations of an aggressive race, or whether it
all came from some centralized and organized source.
Gradually appalling evidence began to come to light. Boiled
down into a set of definite conclusions, this seemed to be the
digest of what is being put into operation behind the American
people's backs-
"Somewhere behind World Jewry there seems to be a group of
great Jews who have possessed themselves of ways to concentrate
the efforts of this peculiar race and make them a predominantly
aggressive factor in gaining to control of all Gentile countries,
peoples, and Christian institutions. Their motives for doing this
thing need not be discussed here; sufficient it is to say that they
appear to be doing it!
"This unsuspected control of a world-dispersed people in turn
boils down to what appears to be a Hidden Empire, and-believe
it or not!-the true soldiery for the effecting of its program and
objectives is what is known as the World Communistic Move-
ment, seemingly directed out of Moscow, and actually embracing
not only the Jews universally in command of it, but millions of
Gentile dupes-mainly people in life's lower brackets-who are
being 'sold' on the idea of bettering their social and laboring
conditions.
"In other words, inasmuch as Jews are in the minority as to num-
bers, they have to achieve their great racial conquests in all non-
Jewish countries by stirring up the working masses. If these Jew.
ish 'leaders' can get the laboring members of the great trade-
union movements of the world to 'strike for their rights' all
Aryan-Christian governments and institutions can gradually be
pulled down to ruin. By financing and secretly directing such
world-wide trade-union movements, these Jews can control them.
They can get the dumb workingman to do the battling and whefl
5
the so-called 'Capitalistic' class (Gentile) has been overthrown or
liquidated, Jews everywhere can ascend into the places thus made
vacant. If, on the other hand, the violence-gesture fails, the
poor gullible workingman can be left to 'take the rap' while the
Jew gets off scot-free and concentrates on attaining to his ascen-
dancy through bureaucratic legislation!"
Does this seem fOT the moment fantastic? Suppose, for a brief
analysis, we consider the eccentricity of Bolshevism in Russia...•
HE war had furnished the chance for the
syphilitic Jew Lenin to tryout the process in
Russia. Ascending to places of supreme power
in Russia-with the financing of big capitalistic
Jews in the banking-house of Kuhn, Loeb &
Company, New Yotk-they forthwith began to
use Russia and Moscow as General Headquar-
ters for extending their operations to all other countries. They
first got into Hungary, and the Jew Bela Kun reduced that coun-
try to a living hell. They got into Italy, but Mussolini became
wise to their secret operations and organized a force of Black
Shirts to deal with them. Communism was thrown out of Italy
and the satanic plans of the Red Jews smashed. So next they tried
Germany. The German people rallied in time and Adolf Hitler
was the leader who stopped them from taking over that country
and making it another Russia. Balked in Italy and Germany, they
next went to work in France, Spain, China and United States.
In France, the Communist-Jew Blum came to power, in Spain
Franco opposed them; in China, Japan interfered with their plans.
In the United States they realized they would have to gain their
ends by strategy. So' they first operated through the Federal Re-
serve to raise the discount rate on call money and produce a panic.
Then by artfully operating behind the scenes, they prolonged that
panic into a Depression.
6
What they really were up to, in the United States, was to make
the Depression so severe that they could introduce some dumb or
willing stooge into the nation's highest office, surround him with
hundreds of Communistic Jews, and gradually introduce legisla-
tive measures for the cure of the Depression, that would secretly
bring in Communism without the American people becoming
aware of their true purposes.
They found their man in Roosevelt, the pampered son of a rich
family in New York, who had never done a day's work in his life,
who was vain, bumptious, arrogant, yet possessed of the brains to
play their game and pull their chestnuts from the fire. Having
fanaggled him into office, they immediately surrounded him with
a Brain-Trust-made up predominantly of Jews-which took con-
trol of the country's policies. Whatever they wanted done, they
did through Roosevelt. All of a sudden, the unsuspecting Amer-
ican people awoke to the fact that Roosevelt's measures for recov-
ery from the Depression were strictly in line with the Communistic
policies emanating from Moscow.
But what the American people did not know was, that deep in
behind all of it existed a world-wide coalition of great banking
Jews who really constituted a Hidden Empire, who had their lines
laid to every nation's capital, who pulled the strings in Moscow as
they pulled them in the "free" United States.
It was this tight coalition of great banking Jews, that was put-
ting up the money for the "fight of the proletariat," just as it
was issuing orders to Roosevelt on the other hand to go after the
"economic royalists" and make a great stir about the rights of the
under-privileged in the United States.
The "poor dumb Gentile," harassed to hysteria by the conditions
which had arisen, denying him both a job and a living, did not
know that these great Jewish bankers had first gained to control
of the press, the radio, and the movies, so that precious small ex-
posure of their conspiracy could come about.
They did not know that the whole Russian debacle, the American
7
panic of 1929, the outstanding features of NRA-after they had
acquired control of the Democratic Party and altered it to serve
their purpose-and the Relief Program which merely kept body
and soul togerher in the distraught American Gentile without
actually relieving him-were all parts of the one great world plot
that was in process of fulfillment.
It took astute Christian gentlemen in the State Department of the
United States, to find out these things and know that they were
true. But, of course, immediately the Jew-Gang had stolen the
Democratic Party and gotten into power, such men were "fired"
and allowed precious little chance to tell what they had learned.
Cl All the same, this Hidden Empire-this little coterie of world-
banking Jews, with headquarters formerly at Frankfurt, Germany,
but more recently in Paris and New York-was known to he a
very real oligarchy, with a power almost chimerical, that could
make or break any public man no matter in what province he
exercised himself.
Communism, affecting to be a move against the world's capi-
talists, really had been financed and secretly directed from the
first, by some of the most pernicious capitalists in this whole mun-
dane universe.
Tens of thousands of embittered Gentiles were jockeyed into the
Communist Party, never suspecting for an instant that deep in
behind the scenes they were merely the puppets and the monkeys
for a clique of the richest Jews in the world who were enga.ged in
getting those same Gentiles to pull down American industry and
change American government-not for an ultimate government of
working-men but for the benefit and accession of half-a-dozen
dominant Jewish families, whose political representatives are the
usurped American government at this present moment.
It stuns the sincere Gentile Communist of the United States, when
he discovers that he has been made the stupid tool of a coterie of
rich Jews who dominate Stalin in far-off Russia with quite as much
insolence and omnipotence as they dominate the egocentric who
at present occupies the White House.
8
Another tool of the same Jewish Crew is Jolm L. Lewis.
All of these men are just high-caste dupes in the hands of a
crowd of international Hebrews who pull this string and that
string and "playoff" one country against another as it pleases
their whim, profit, or caprice.
Hitler "got wise" to the whole of it, back in 1933, and ejected
the insufferable crowd from the Fatherland. Whereat, being the
controlling influence behind the world's press in other nations-s-
and particularly in America through their domination of the News
Bureaus and the National Association of Department Store Own-
ers-they at once ordered their duped and dumb journalistic
satraps, Jew as well as Gentile, to slash back at Hitler in one of
the worst defamatory campaigns that the world has ever known.
Nevertheless, Hitler withstood all of it, and remained in the
saddle of German affairs. But in United States they were more
successful.
At their bidding, Roosevelt-just then a sick, vain tool-began
filling up the Democratic Administration with thousands of Jews,
and firing the Gentiles out of their own government.
Playing on the average American's weakness- his flare for race
tolerance and religious freedom-Jews everywhere came into office
in the American administration in locust-swarm numbers. Given
such political and financial power, they at once set to work to see
that Gentile industry was ruined, Gentile employes turned into the
streets, Gentile property foreclosed upon, and Gentile prospects
everywhere gutted, while--conversely-they brought in shipload
after shipload of their fellow racials from abroad to augment
their numbers and make their usurpation permanent.
BELIEVE it or not, this truly is what has happened, making
our country suddenly different .from what it was to our
fathers and mothers. You, as an average American, may not be
able to "take" this now, but that is because you haven't orobed
and determined the truth of it, as did the men who once filled im-
portant offices in our American State Department.
9
There actually does exist a coterie of big Jews, whose business
and financial ramifications are world wide, who believe the whole
Gentile population of the earth can be brought under Jewish
dominion, that are endorsing and underwriting Communism on the
one hand and counselling and directing the highest officers of our
Federal government on the other, and by thus playing both ends
against the middle, are bringing about an economic condition here
in the United States where a free constitutional government can
be set aside and a Jewish oligarchy enabled to assume supreme
jurisdiction and command,
The little corner Jew, of course, doesn't know much about it,
but from what he does know, he thinks it is great. Naturally
he is keen to lord it over Gentiles and help to take over the rich
country that American Gentiles have created. So he gives his
support and efforts to the success of the Communist Movement.
Look where you will, you'll see thousands of Jews in all the im-
portant strategic maneuvers-with here and there a big Gentile
like Lewis, or LaFollette, persuaded to do the dirty work under
promise of great office and power when the constitutional system
has been overthrown.
But deep in behind it all, secretive and uncanny in their cunning,
lurk the motivators and protagonists of it all, watching this move
and that development, urging the working classes to strike here,
controlling the banking rate and denying money to employers
somewhere else, gradually cementing and augmenting their in-
fluence without once "sticking their heads out," and gradually
pulling Great America down to unspeakable chaos and despair.
fl Bloody Bronstein-known otherwise as Leon Trotsky-one of
the most facile Jewish plotters, consorts with the greatest interna-
tional bankers of the various countries on the one hand and then
turns about in public and harangues against the "capitalistic"
system, Time and again, reviewing his Red Gentile soldiery in
Russia before he became Traveling Ambassador for Stalin, he
called these white Russian soldiers "monkeys without a tail."
10
And to such a personage are millions of poor laboring dupes pin-
ning their faith that these messianic Jews are going to lead them
out of their present economic slavery and land them in green
pastures of the More Abundant Life.
To those who have accurately investigated what this Communistic
phenomenon is "all about," the secret facts are tragic.
But immediately a sincere man, who does know what it is all
about, gets up courageously and tries to enlighten these American-
labor "monkeys without a tail," the press-subsidized and con-
trolled by the Hidden Empire's American representatives-howls
him down, calls him a "dangerous Fascist engaged in overthrow-
ing democratic institutions," and persuades its dupes that he IS
their worst public enemy whom they should immediately destroy.
Cl This is the situation in the United States at the present time.
Cl A revolution is being manufactured here with wicked intent,
by economic suffering and industrial strife, so that these big Jews
can introduce their dictators-Gentile as well as Hebrew-and in
the last analysis, "run the whole works." . . .
Do you think this is all rancor, race prejudice, seeing bogies, find-
ing a scapegoat in the Jews for the economic turmoil that is driv-
ing this nation mad at this moment?
Well, when great Jews themselves acknowledge that it is so, and
even boast of the manner in which it is succeeding, are you pre-
pared to believe it then?
If you want the real truth, as to why Roosevelt is behaving so
inconsistently, as to why Lewis is allowed to get away with his
strong-arm tactics in industry, as to why this Depression doesn't
seem to readjust itself as other "hard times" have done, consider
the information in these pages ensuing. . • •
This information has to be gotten out to you in this manner,
because all channels of general public information have become
dosed to those who refuse to play the Jewish Game....
Yes, there is a Hidden Empire, and the sooner you know all about
it, the quicker will you be able to protect yourself and bring it
down to the ruin it deserves!
11
BOTH shocks and bestirs the patriotic and
tolerant American at first to be told that this
country harbors a people who are by no means
content with merely enjoying its hospitality
and free institutions on a basis of sportsman-
I like competition with all other races, but who
...lIf......::IIlIIIIII.... actually aspire to achieve autocratic rulership
over all other races on earth. They would impose their own
eccentric brand of culture and economics on nationals every-
where, whether other nationals want it or not.
As tho: story unfolds, the scope of this morbid craving and the
ramifications of progress towards its accomplishment present
phases so fanciful that the average sane individual wonders if
the whole thing is not a fantasy and if the scores of investigators
who have made tremendous sacrifices to ferret out the facts may
not have been drug addicts.
The whole cabal is so colossal, and its underlying motives are so
utterly foreign to anything in Christian psychology, that one be-
comes mentally befuddled before the recital has gone very far,
and rejects the whole nefarious program as a nightmare of vicious
minds.
Unfortunately it is this reaction, this wholesome mind-defense
mechanism of the average Christian, which over the years has con-
tributed more than all else to the plot's success. If a man or race
of men propagate a big enough plot normal people will decry
it as preposterous and refuse to give it credence. Thus they really
reveal the extent of their own limitations. They would never
think of doing such a thing, therefore it cannot be possible that
anyone else would do so. So long as they have this inherent
inhibition, it is comparatively easy to keep them persuaded that
the plot is a myth. And so long as such an assumption is success-
fully encouraged the predatory program can be pushed to full ac-
complishment. When these normal and wholesome-minded peo-
ple later awaken to the fact that it has by no means been a mvth,
12
it may then be too late to do anything about it, for conditions
may have been brought about where all opposition to the plot can
be suppressed and the slightest protest or remonstrance punished
with death-as has been shown to have occurred in the country
once known as Russia.
Regardless of what may be said to the contrary by these racial
marplots whom we shall describepresently, we are not anti-Semites
-as the term is commonly accepted. But in probing into the
true causes behind the dread times that have come upon the world,
a stupefying array of facts has been unearthed about the Hebrew
people. Such information has not been gleaned by prejudiced
busybodies listening at key-holes. Most devastating of all, cor-
roborating evidence has been found in the writings and speeches
of representative Jews themselves. All of this builds up a stag-
gering case in logic, confirmed by daily events throughout the
whole world, but particularly in the United States, that the time
has arrived when the Jewish people prophetically accept the prom-
ise that all non-Jews will come under the hegemony of Judah.
Non-Jewish peoples laugh at such an idea as utterly absurd. But
no Jew is laughing at it. And no Gentile who is aware of the
fact as to what is going on, is laughing at it, either. So long as
the Jews have a plan, and are working collectively as a race with
such an objective, Christian patriots can do very little to save the
nation from its present economic and financial morass. Because
at every tum, they find a mysterious obstruction blocking con-
structive rehabilitation. If they combine in organization to get
business done en masse, soon Hebrews are knocking at their doors
and inviting themselves into their ranks, demanding and receiving
full social equality and official recognition. Whereupon elusive,
disintegrating mischief begins to manifest itself. Quarrels ap-
pear and are multiplied. Doctrines are subverted. The effect
and force of the effort are emasculated. Soon the whole movement
has become abortive and no one can definitely put a finger on just
where the trouble started or exactly what nurtured it into such
disastrous channels.
13
Nevertheless, people of a studious tum of mind, in many in-
stances the Foreign Offices and Military of the great Christian
governments, have not been conrent to merely admit the elusive
existence of such subversive influences; they have taken it upon
themselves to trace these factors to their source. So it has come
about that dozens of entirely reputable historians, and hundreds
of official espionage officers and agents, all working separately,
unknown to each other and at different times, have finally arrived
at the same staggering disclosures and conclusions. This article
is more or less a brief summary of the authentic data that they
have brought to light.
In considering the staggering facts that have thus been discov-
ered, it is of paramount importance that we carefully examine the
following conclusions:
The first of these is: That the Jew through history has not been
persecuted because his religion is a denial of the Christ as the
divine Messiah, nor because he is an overly smart business man.
These two items count very little in searching out the reasons why
Jews of all times and in all countries have periodically suffered
from suppressions and pogroms.
The Jew was and is prosecuted because he is primarily unsocial,
Or rather non-social, in so far as other races are concerned. He
will not play the great game of life according to the rules.
Furthermore, confine him to a given code of religious, social, or
business ethics, and make him abide by it, and a dozen races
outstrip him with ease. Because this is so, he has built up a code
of ethics and morals of his own, whereby he considers it entirely
correct for him to conduct his whole world by the Law of
Expediency. As the colloquialism has it: "Anything goes that he
can get away with!" In this respect, the Jew is on the whole
unmoral. He cannot understand the Christian code of ethics,
however much he affects to do so intellectually. Hundreds of
Jewish writers admit this evidence of weakness, which is a result of
operating too long a time-without ethics!
The secret history of all nations in consequence, discloses that
14
Jews have suffered persecution because of their own acts and
practices--excepting in many instances in the Ncar-East over the
past hundred years when pogroms have actually been instigated
by Jewish leaders themselves, conniving to get their own people
slaughtered that Jewry as a world influence for loot might be
drawn the tighter together and function the more effectively. In
other words, it has been disclosed that many leaders of world
Jewry have not wanted Jewish persecutions to cease entirely be-
fore their program of world conquest was achieved, since Jewry
would thereby be deprived of one of its greatest assets, martyrdom
making for solidarity in such conquests.
This seems paradoxical and preposterous to believe. But to un-
derstand it, we must accept another fact-this time ethnological
and not ethical-that the Jew is not a white man but an Oriental.
It is generally known that the bloods of the three great racial
divisions of the world; white, yellow and black, all test differently
under chemical analysis. But it is not generally known that the
lew's blood tests yellow when such analysis is essayed.
Father Coughlin in a radio address in the fall of 1933, entitled
!t,toney Control, stated-
"For more than one hundred and fifty years the so-called civilized
nations have permitted the Rothschilds, the Lazard Freres, the
Morgans, the Kuhn-Loehs and such private banking institutions
to exert such a control over the basic money of this world, to dic-
tate that gold alone shall be its basic money, that we in America
have escaped a revolution only by a hair's breadth."
In another radio address delivered under the title: Thus Gaeth
the Battle, the Reverend Father issued this ringing challenge-s-
"Forward to Christ all ye people! March! March today! God
wills it-this religious crusade against the pagan god of gold."
We have to confront, and assimilate as we can, disillusion after
disillusion in popular acceptances, when we get into this field of
human research. Notions which have been promulgated for so
many years that they seem part and parcel of our consciousness,
have to be torn out painfully and discarded.
15
WAS JESUS A JEW?
FOR INSTANCE, the world has accepted for centuries that
our Beloved Lord Jesus was a Jew. But nowhere in the Bible
is the statement made that Christ was a Jew. Definitely therein
do we learn He was a Nazarene. Never were the Nazarenes
known as Jews. Christ severely denounced the Jews, for their evil
ways in no uncertainterms. Never did He address them as "My
people.' As a matter of provable fact, the Jews disown Christ,
refuse His leadership, refuse Christianity. The only reason they
have ever claimed Christ to have been a Jew, was a childish idea
they could thus tum aside the Gentiles indignation at their Jew-
ish destructiveness.
The Jewish priesthood hated Jesus and betrayed him because of
His outspoken opposition to their philosophy of life and because
if His teachings were followed, their plans for world dominance
that had already been formed for a few hundred years would be
given a serious setback. Moreover, He was one of the despised
Nazarenes, a Jew only in the sense that he was born in a Jewish
province and was therefore a Jewish citizen. Why should a
Nazarene, an outsider, set himself up as a higher authority on
religious matters than the Sadducees and Pharisees and above all
lay claim to being the Messiah foretold by Jewish prophets?
It simply couldn't be tolerated, so He was betrayed and crucified.
The wise men of the Jews had been telling their followers that
the world was to be delivered to them and that the Gentiles would
he "their servants in the fields." Jesus was becoming too popular
and His teachings were weakening their propaganda. That must
be stopped once and for all. So they plotted His death. But as
the years rolled on and Christian teachings became more and
more popular, a cleverly camouflaged program was worked out,
essentially anti-Christian but which, bv claiming that Jesus was
descended from David, strengthened the position of the Jews as
"The Chosen People," and therefore entitled to tolerance by the
followers of the Christ.
16
Back of it all, however, was a hatred of the man whose philoso-
phy had so seriously hindered the consummation of jewish plans
tor world dominion.
It is this sort of background that enables us to understand the
Jewish ann-Christ endeavors; we can understand why communism
and socialism, secret societies of continental Europe, and all cults
and organizations developed or sponsored by the Jewish Sanhedrin,
have as one of their principal aims the elimination of the Chris-
tian faith; we can understand why Jewish writers have since slan-
dered Jesus, saying that he was an illegitimate child; we can under-
stand why Jewish writers put out the tale that the works of Jesus
were no miracles of God, but instead were performed by the aid
of a magic stone that Jesus concealed within a slit in his flesh.
Jesus had his own ideas about the Jews. He may have gone
about speaking in their synagogues, but when he faced them as
a race, he said with flashing eyes, "Ye are of your father the devil,
and the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from
the beginning and and abode not in the truth, because there is no
truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own,
for he is a liar, and the father of it." A few moments before
this terrific indictment Jesus had likewise said (see the eighth
Chapter of St. John, the 38th to the 45th verses), "I know that
ye are Abraham's Seed . . . but if ye were Abraham's Children ye
would do the works of Abraham. But now ye seek to kill me.
a man that hath told ye the truth, which I have heard of God,
this did not Abraham. Ye do the works of your father. "
THE TALMUD CONDEMNED
STUD EN TS of the Jewish Question run across astounding
bits of history fuJI of proof that the "Jewish Question"
has been recognized as existing down through the centuries. In
"The Original Mr. Jacobs." the Minerva Press, in 1888, pre-
sented the findings of a trial instigated bv the French King, St.
Louis, 1215-1270, known as "The King Without Fear," who de-
17
terrnincd to ascertain for himself the cause of the complaints and
bitter animosities against the Jews.
"This great and good king, who had an inexhaustible love for
justice, sought to know Wily the Jews were the object of the
hatred of all. Upon the demand of Pope Gregory IX, whose
attention was also called to this fact, he caused the Ta/mud to
be examined in a solemn assembly, over which presided William
d' Auvcrgue, and in which the Rabbis were invited to take part.
'It was in Paris, in the beginning of summer, the 24th of June,
1240, when this memorable council took place. The Court of
St. Louis was presided over on that day by Queen Blanche, Moth-
er of St. Louis. A few volumes, covered with strange characters,
attracted the attention of the curious, and it became known
through Nicholas, a converted Jew, that the characters were He-
brew letters, and that the books were the Talmud. But soon a
more interesting spectacle attracted the attention of the assem-
bly. Four Rabbis had entered the room. They were Jechiel,
of Paris; Judah, son of David; Samuel, son of Solomon, and
Moses, of Couey, son of Jacob--the latter a famous orator known
rhroughour France and Spain. They entered. sad and uneasy,
into the palace of the King, while the assembled Jews scattered
themselves about like a flock of sheep without a shepherd.' Every
opportunity was given to the Jews to defend themselves, which
they did with couragt> and ability. They, however, were forced
to acknowledge that the Talmud contained precepts not only con-
trary to the good of Christian society, but of every civilized so-
ciety. Passages were read which horrified the listeners. The book
said that Jesus Christ was plunged into hell, into ever-boiling
mud; that the Divine Son of the Holy Virgin was the fruit of
adulterous intercourse with a soldier named Pandara, and that
the ministers were no better than howling dogs. Other passages
were read that increased the fear of the Jews, and the indignation
of the Christians.... St. Louis, the King, displayed an extra-
ordinary amount of moderation. As Jechiel was trembling with
fear, one of the officers of the King said, 'Jechiel, who thinks
18
of doing any harm to the Jews?' The Ta/mud alone was con-
demned and all copies that could be found were cast into the
flames."
"PERSECUTION"
TH ERE are those who still cling to the archaic notion that a
whole people cannot be indicted for the acts of a few. But
when the "few" are the admitted and avowed spokesmen for a race,
and no general protestation of their declarations concerning their
whole people is forthcoming from that people, its organizations,
its clergy, or its press, then the axiom is again just another bit of
brickdust in the eyes of the gullible or unwary. Why else are
leaders recognized or tolerated, unless they speak or act for great
masses of individuals making up a "people '? If they speak and
act without rebuke, then their utterances and behaviors must be
accepted as having the approval of that people. And for such
approval a whole race can be indicted!
History records, available to the public, make practically no
mention of Jews, prior to something like 220 years before the
advent of Christ. Even then they were a retrogressive
clan, even old Ezra putting into the Lord's mouth the
criticism: "Thou art a stiff-necked people." It was the Sad-
ducee's priestcraft, organized as a Sanhedrin for purely temporal
power, that proceeded to give the Jews a racial consciousness
down to modern times. And terrible indeed has been the growth
of that organized temporal power unto the present day. Instead
of being a small religious oligarchy over a restive and non-social
people in a corner of Palestine, as it was in the day of Christ,
the Sanhedrin has now spread out and become worldwide, under
a name which few Gentiles ever chance to hear-the Kahal!
Wherever the Tribe of Judah has penetrated, there trouble has
arisen for political authority. We have not thll time in this
19
article to trace a careful history of the Jews. It is enough to be-
gin the story with the disgust of Titus, the Roman Emperor,
who in 70 A. D. determined to blot out the Sanhedrin as an
unhallowed power for political mischief in his empire, by scat-
tering the Jews to the four corners of the world.
Again other commentators say, "The authority of the Jewish
leaders in the time of Augustus had been widely extended by a
learned but unscrupulous priesthood, over an ignorant, super-
stitious people. In that age while a struggle was going on between
two rival sects, Pharisees and Sadducees, certain political clubs
were formed which concealed under a religious mask the grasping
aims of a clique."
These clubs were not slow to take advantage of their country's
misfortunes. A few years later during the siege of Jerusalem by
Vespasian, they won, by the betrayal of the Jewish cause, the
favor of the Roman Conqueror, and were subsequently entrusted
by the Imperial Government, with the administration of Palestine.
([ Moreover, with the sack of Jerusalem, the destruction of the
Temple, and the death of the patriotic leaders, the common peo-
ple found themselves utterly dependent, in spiritual as well as civil
matters, upon the same self-styled societies of the learned, which
alone possessed the secrets of the priesthood and copies of the
sacred texts. By interpreting, altering and augmenting the rules
and rituals these texts contained, and by a system of espionage
and assassination, the new rulers established a strict control over
the daily lives of their co-religionists.
Having thus taken hold of the Jewish people through the medium
of the Roman authority, this clique easily placed its laws above
the Ten Commandments and formed a government whose con-
trol over its subjects was absolute. This government became
known henceforth as the Sanhedrin!
The dispersion of the Jews which followed in 135 A. D., instead
of destroying the Sanhedrin, served on the contrary, to set it on
a new and firmer basis, on which it has continued ever since.
Wherever Jewish immigrants settled, they founded communities
20
apart under the direction of the fraremiries, and held to the
precepts of the Talmud. Each community had its local secret
government, called Kehillah. The different aims of these com-
munities always found themselves intimately related with those of
the Central body upon which their existence depended.
So it was possible for the Jews to develop and operate a perfected
system of espionage, which they still maintain. In olden days as
now, they sent agents to watch over Jewish affairs at police sta-
tions and other agents were posted at the doors of shops, hotels,
business houses, law courts, and even in private homes, to get ad-
vance information of all kinds. In this manner all kinds of things
became possible, even blackmail, with which all sorts of
political pressure could be brought to bear on Gentiles who had
political influence in the Roman Government at that time. Hence,
it is easy to understand the reason for the concentration of trade
into Jewish hands, with all these instruments of political pressure
and advance business information at their finger tips at all times.
fI. There is a colloquial term that should always be coupled with
the Dispersion. That is "Der Tag," or "The Day of Redemp-
tion," when World Jewry shall be gathered together again under
one head, with all Gentile nations subservient to this world-wide
Jewish empire whose governing seat is to be in Jerusalem. (Zion
Movernenr.]
Millions of gullible Germans, as well as millions of gullible and
illiterate Christians everywhere, thought back in 1914 that Der
Tag meant the Day of Recognition for Germany as to her place
in the sun as a nation. It was a phrase and a term artfully "sold"
to the German people, or rather, put in their mouths. Really it
was Hebrew in meaning, indicating-in the secret councils of
Jewry-that having provoked and produced world war, with the
white pariah nations thus engaged in slaughtering one another by
the hundreds of thousands, the outcome could only mean the
achievement by the Jews of an age-long goal: winning to the
pinnacle of world-wide political and economic power.
4)0 the Germans, French, English and Russians went forth to
21
fight this war of self-extermination, not knowing that in greeting
Der Tag they were playing the game of Jewish world imperialists
-as will be explained and authenticated more in detail further
along. The true story of the rise of Hitlerism to power in Ger-
many, how and why it could get the support of the whole German
people and why the Jews are execraring it all over the world, is
really the story of how the Germans discovered the Jewish influence
about the Kaiser that worked to project the world war-not only
from Berlin, but from Paris, London and Washington. Real
Germans are smashing Jewish influence; weeding it out of Ger-
many. Because of this setback to their plans, world Jewry is
turning the full blast of its temporal power and control of instru-
ments of publicity in all countries against Hitler to vilify, mis-
represent, and destroy him. This too wiII be dealt with later.
CI. The point to be registered here is, that from the Roman Titus
through the long line of medieval monarchs to Queen Isabella and
Ferdinand, wherever the Jews have won political or financial prom-
inence in a country, seeds of disruption, unrest, and sedition have
been sown to such an exent that in a greater or lesser degree
monarchs have had to deal harshly with this people in consequence.
«I. To counterbalance or suppress such unrest and sedition, one
of three expedients has been resorted to: Jews have been ex-
pelled from such royal domain, or "dispersed," or they have been
confined in restricted areas called Ghettos with orders not to leave
the same under pain of death, or they have been butchered in
massacres called "pogroms."
Jewish publicists by the tens of thousands have trained the
Christian public to believe that their "persecution" is chastisement
inflicted on this people by God Almighty, and that it has resulted
from the competitive cleverness of Jews, or religious prejudice,
which Gentiles fear or resent. Delving soberly and clinically into
the facts, we discover that persecution has come about from far
different causes. Jews are everywhere persecuted, and have been
persecuted consistently through the generations, as mass reprisals
against their own behavior and their ml'n predatory or seditious
22
acts. We have ample admissions from Jewish authorities that
this is so!
"WE HAVE TARNISHED AND BROKEN
THEIR POWER"
DR. MUNZER, a Jew, in his book The Way to Zion, boasts
"We Jews have spoiled the blood of all the races. We
have tarnished and broken their power. We have made every-
thing foul, rotten, decomposed, and decayed."
The Jew, Dr. \'V'eizman, in a pamphlet entitled "Great Britain,
Palestine and the Jews," states: "Here we are, just Jews and
nothing else, a nation among nations."
The Jew, Isaac Adolphe Cremieux, the founder of the Universal
Jewish Alliance, says: "Our nation is not a French one, nor Eng-
lish, nor Swiss, nor German. Nay, our union is Jewish and it is
universal. Living in lands of dispersion, we cannot be concerned
about the changing aims of those lands which are strange to us
until the time when our own aims, both moral and material, are
in danger. If you realize that in spite of your cover-nationalities
that you form only one and the same people, if you believe that
only Judaism constitutes the religious and political truth, then yOll
will listen to our apoeal and accept it."
The Jew, Maurice Samuel, on p. 155 of his book, You Gentiles,
S:IyS: "We Jews, we the destroyers, will remain the destroyers
forever! Nothing that you will do will meet our needs and
demands. We will forever destroy because we need a world of
"
our own....
The Jew, D'Israeli, in 1844, in his book, Coningsby, said: "The
world is governed by very different personages from what is
imagined by those who are not behind the scenes." Later, in his
book, Life of George Bcnttnc]; (pp. 497-8), the same author
says in regard to revolutionary outbreaks, "The influence of the
Jews may be traced in the last outbreak of the destructive prin-
ciple ill Europe. An insurrection takes place against tradition
and aristocracy, against religion and property. Destruction of
23
the Semitic principle, extirpation of the Jewish religion, whether
in the Mosaic or the Christian form, the natural equality of man,
the abrogation of property, are proclaimed by the secret societies
who form proviso governments, and men of the Jewish race are
found at the head of every one of them. The people of God
cooperate with atheists; the most skilful accumulators of property
ally themselves with Communists; the peculiar and chosen race
touch the hand of all the scum and low castes of Europe. And
all this because they wish to destroy that ungrateful Christendom
which owes to them even its name and whose tyranny they can no
longer endure."
The Jew, Walter Rathenau, in Wiener Press, Dec. 24, 1921, said:
"Only three hundred men, each of whom knows all the others,
govern the fate of Europe! They select their successors from
their own entourage. These German Jews have the means in
their hands of putting an end to the form of any State which
they may find 'unreasonable.'''
This sort of testimony is not manufactured propaganda to ad-
vance race prejudice from religious or economic spleen. It is the
attestment of representative and responsible Jews themselves.
Wherever Jews are knotted together, in any country, there they
are banded to bring about in some form or other the weakening
of that country, that the world-wide Zionist government may
eventually be actualized.
Mr. Charles Pinckney, one of the framers of the Constitution,
published a diary for private distribution among his friends un-
der the title: Chit-Chat Around the Table During Intermission.
Says Mr. Pinckney in his little book:
"Dr. Benjamin Franklin, a venerahle figure, weighed down by
Yfars and wisdom, leaned one hand on his staff, the other on the
tahle and said, 'There is a greater menace to these United States
of America.•..
"'This great menace, gentlemen, i$ the Jew!
.. 'In whatever country Jews have settled in any great numbers
they have lowered its moral tone; they have depreciated its corn-
24
mercial integrity; have segregated themselves; have not assimi-
lated; have sneered at and tried to undermine the Christian
religion upon which this nation is founded by objecting to irs
restrictions; have built up a state within a state, and when
opposed have tried to strangle that country to death financially, as
in the case of Spain and Portugal.
"'If you do not exclude them from the United States in this
Constitution, in less than two hundred years they will have
swarmed here in such great numbers that they will dominate and
devour the land, and change our form of government for which
we Americans have shed our blood, given our lives, our substance,
jeopardized our liberty, and put into it our best thoughts.
ee 'If you do not exclude them, in less than two hundred years our
descendents will be working in the fields to furnish them sub.
stance, while they will be in the countinghouses, rubbing their
hands gleefully. I warn you, gentlemen, that if you do not ex-
clude the Jews for all time, your children's children will curse
you in your graves! Jews, gentlemen, are Asiatics. Let them be
born where they will, or how many generations they are away
from Asia, they will never be otherwise . • . "
Mr. Franklin was well qualified to voice an opinion, because he
had just returned from France where he had witnessed the early
stages of the Revolution. While there he was able to perceive the
diabolical influence that was throwing the country into turmoil.
It has not taken two hundred years for Benjamin Franklin's
prophecy to come true. Private Jewish statistics indicate there
are over 12,000,000 Jews in the United States, where they con-
trol more than sixty-five percent of the vital interests of our
country.
THE WORLD MENACE FOR CENTURIES
LET us see briefly where this Conspiracy began-
In the twelve centuries that passed between the dispersing
action of Titus, and the 1306 expulsion fiat of Philip IV of
France, world Jewry had taken on a two-fold aspect. Jewry out
25
of the Tribe of Judah and presided over in a temporal way by
the Sadducean Sanhedrin, had in a manner of speaking, split into
two parts or racial divisions. One-half migrated northward out
of Palestine, into what is now the Soviet Ukraine. Here they in-
terbred further with Asiatic and Tatar Mongols, and caught in
the western onrush of the hordes of Genghis Kahn, they were
swept in vast numbers through Poland into the Danube Valley.
They became in time the Ashkenazim, or Mongoloid branch of
world Jewry, comprising the great mass of Russian and German
Jews. We have them today throughout America, roundheaded,
grasping, alternately whining and arrogant, strict materialists,
who openly consider Jewry to be not followers of a religion but
a world-wide political State, in other words, a nation competing
with all other nations.
The other branch of Jewry migrated westward through countries
adjacent to the Mediterranean, particularly throughout North
Africa, where they intermarried with the Moors and Berbers and
later with the Spaniards, and the Portuguese. This racial division
is known as the Sephardirn and its members are called Sephardic
Jews. Because of their strong infusion of Aryan blood, these
Jews have the cleanly cut Grecian features, the cherry-black eyes,
and the general characteristics of Spaniards and Arabs. Not only
do they differ in appearance from the Ashkenazim but in manner-
isms, the Sephardim are more esthetic. They hold generally
that Jewry is a religious and not a political nation,
though by no means are they adverse to standing with their Ash-
kenazic brethren in presenting a united Jewish front against the
Gentiles. Nevertheless, there is a certain schism fundamentally
between these two major divisions of world Jews, and internal
rivalry between their leaders has been responsible for more changes
in international politics among the world's Gentile nations than
the layman dreams. Both seek the goal of Jewish world control.
In world finance, economics and politics, the Mongoloid Ash-
kenazic Hebrews are represented by the great banking families
of the Rothschilds (or Mayers) of Germany, the Sassoon fami.
26
lies of Bagdad and the Orient, and the Samuel families of
London. The Sephardic Hebrews are largely officialized by the
Ginsberg families of France and Spain.
In the substance of the foregoing paragraph, if the Christian lay-
man only knew it, lies the key that unlocks the seemingly incon-
sistent moves making for war or peace in scores of the world's
Gentile nations.
About 1492 King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella found their
kingdom in the same compromising situation from Jewish en-
croachments, as earlier monarchs had confronted since the year
70 A. D. and which they had uniformly solved by consigning
this non-social trouble-breeding people to live in Ghettos.
The well known edict of Charles VIII of France in 1489 ordered
all Jews to embrace Christianity and become loyal citizens and
good subjects or suffer forfeiture of their goods and chattels, also
expulsion from his domain.
The heads of Sephardic Jewry thereupon wrote in their extremity
to the Elders of Zion, the Sanhedrin, then sitting in Constantino-
ple asking for advice as to what they should do. The mischiev-
ous reply to this appeal has come up to us across the years of his-
tory, and shows itself as being directly responsible for the growth
of the Zionist Movement throughout the earth. These Constan-
tinople Elders responded:
"Dear beloved brethren in Moses: We have received your letter
in which you tell us of the anxieties and misfortunes which you
are enduring. Weare pierced by as great pain to hear it as
yourselves.
"The advice of the Grand Satraps and Rabbis is the following:
er. As for what you say that the King of France obliges you to
become Christians; do it, since you cannot do otherwise, but let
the law of Moses be kept in your hearts.
"As for what you say about the command to despoil you of your
goods; make your sons merchants, that little by little they may
despoil the Christians of theirs.
"As for what you say about their attempts on your lives; make
27
your sons doctors and apothecaries that they may take away
Christians' lives.
"As for what you say of their destroying your synagogues: make
your sons canons and clerics in order that they may destroy their
churches.
"As for the many other vexations you complain of: arrange that
your sons become advocates and lawyers, and see that they
always mix themselves up with the affairs of State, in order
th<lt by putting Christians under your yoke you may dominate
the world and be avenged on them.
"Do not swerve from this order that we give you, because you
will find by experience that, humiliated as you are, you will reach
the actuality of power."
Such was the direful and subtle Protocol of 1489 whose authen-
ticity has never yet been convincingly refuted nor honestly denied
by well-informed Jews. That it was acted upon in the southern
European countries with manifest success, the pages of history
will attest, Jews everywhere "accepting" the Christian religion
for policy's sake and, in Spain, becoming known as Maranos, or
Jews committed to Crypto-Judaism. What part Jews played in the
world-wide success of the Society of Jesus, or the Jesuits, probably
can never be determined, but we do know that Adam Weishaupt,
founder of the IlIwninati-thar vast and terrible secret society of
Europe whose influence culminated in the Frenc:h Reign of Terror
-studied with the Jesuits in his early life and from them gained
many of his ideas for subverting the Christian Catholic religion.
CI. The Illuminati, strongest in Germany where it had its home and
where it perverted and subverted Christian Masonry through
the machinations of Frederick the Great, introduced what is known
as the Grand Orient Lodge to Europe--or the co-Masonry against
which every European monarch has set himself from time to
time, both Mussolini and Hitler excommunicating its political
intrigue. The most complete, detailed, and authenticated history
of this movement, and how it was financed by Jews as a gesture
to get their release from European Ghettos, are recounted in the
28
works of the famous historian, Nesta H. Webster, author of
Secret Societies and Subversive Movements.
THE ILLUMINATI
DO U BLY important was the year of the founding of our
Republic because in May, 1776, a notorious organization
was conceived by a German Jew, Adam Weishaupt, that con-
structed the actual machinery of revolution, against which we
are fighting today for self-preservation. Not even the Commu-
nists know the full significance of the date that has come to be
known these later years for its world-wide riots and mobbery.
In 1185 a secret order functioned under the name of "Confrerie
de la Paix," or the brotherhood of peace. Disguised as an at-
tempt to end all wars, it was one of the earliest efforts to establish
a godless Communism. In 1712, more than 500 years later, was
born Jean Jacques Rousseau, a French Jew. Boil down his entire
creed and one salient mandate remains, "Destroy civilization;
whatever is, ir wrong!"
The Illuminati, under the renegade Weishaupt, became in time
an openly destructive satanic society, with everything in its doc-
trines and rituals the exact antithesis of Christianity. Enticing
its victims into the first initial degrees by the most beautiful and
altruistic of fraternal ideals and noble aspirations, graduallv it
wove about them a net of murderous satanism, Implications in
secret rites at length bound them securely to the organization
with chains of steel. As Mrs. Webster has shown, the "ideals"
of Illuminism were:
I. Hatred of God and all forms of religion.
2. Destruction of private property and inheritance.
3. Absolute social and racial equality, promotion of class hatred.
4. Destruction of all forms of either monarchical or democratic
governments, including civil liberties, such as freedom of speech,
of the press, of assembly and of trial by jury.
5. Destruction of all nationalism, love of country, patriotism
and allegiance to civil or political rulers.
29
6. Abolition of marriage, and practice of free love.
On page four of report No. 2290, Seventy-Five Congress, III
Session, investigation of Communistic propaganda in America, the
same articles are advanced as the definition of Russian-Jewish
Communism in its fundamental aspirations. Indeed, the Jews,
Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, in their nefarious works on So·
cialism and the instigation of the First International, "borrowed"
the Illuminati program bodily, a flagrant plagiarism from Weis-
haupt's Satanism which has not been generally revealed.
The point we are getting at is, that the Ghetto-imprisoned Jews
beheld in Illuminism exactly the weapon they needed to effect
their emancipation. This brand of revolutionary philosophy
further suited their inherent revolutionary temperaments. So we
find indications of the German Jews' embracing and helping to
finance Weishaupt, until it became such a danger to the throne
that the Illuminati was ordered to be disbanded. But it never dis-
banded. This edict but sent it underground. Thereupon, speak-
ing figuratively and literally, the Ashkenazic Jews "took it over,"
and the history of Europe for the next hundred years, from the
effects of this control, reads like a nightmare.
Nesta Webster has brought out the full manipulations of the
Illuminati Jews in organizing, conducting, and later suppressing,
the French Revolution and Reign of Terror, when they had ac-
complished their hidden purpose and removed certain royal per-
sonages who stood in the way of their ultimate command of
Europe. We cannot enter into that long and sordid story here.
But we must pay some attention to the escape of the German
Jews from the Ghettos and the rise of the House of Rothschild-
or "Red Shield"-in Germany. It presages the active identifica-
tion of the most terrible international Jewish organization of mod-
em times, the Kahal, to which we shall give some attention
in a moment.
When William the Landgrave of Hesse came to power in Ger-
many he was somewhat fanatical in the pursuit of his hobby, the
collecting of rare and precious coins. In the adjacent Ghetto
30
lived old Anselm Mayer, with his five sons and five daughters.
This Jew set himself to cultivate and win his favor by
presenting him with precious coins.
A strange and intimate friendship grew up between the two. Then
comes a fearsome event, too little known to patriotic Americans.
George III needing mercenaries to fight the revolting Colonials
in the Americas, a deal was made with William the Landgrave
for the use of 17,000 Hessians for which George III was to pay
the sum of $20,000,000. Anselm Mayer was secretly in touch
with the Colonial situation through American Jews, particularly
Haym Salomon of Philadelphia, who made it possible for Robert
Morris to finance the Colonials who thus unwittingly placed them-
selves under obligations to the Jews as the following will show.
«1 Observe what happened and how the pernicious circle of in-
ternational events was maneuvered to spill the blood of colonial
Americans, that the Jews might escape the Hamburg and Frank-
fort Ghettos. George III did not have the English soldiers re-
quisite to fight a successful war with the Colonies, yet was egged
on by predatory and scheming Hebrews in the New World, of
whom American historians are careful to make no mention. The
Colonials were revolting and George III had to do something
about it to maintain the prestige of the Crown. William's 17,000
Hessians were "offered" him. But only recently has it become
known that back of it all was a deal whereby Anselm Mayer
"Red-Shield" (Rothschild) was to get the loan of that $20,000,-
000 for 20 years.
Naturally Haym Salomon, now eulogized for his great financial
services to the struggling Colonials, was agreeable to backing
them. By producing the Revolution in America, it meant that
George III would have to use those Hessians to put down the
insurrection. That meant that William the Landgrave would get
the twenty millions that Anselm-and his strategizing Jews-eould
and would use to make the Ghettos things of history and finance
his progeny and compatriots into important banking positions
among the squabbling Christian monarchs of the Continent.
31
So America had Bunker Hill, Yorktown, Valley Forge, Mon-
mouth and Brandywine. When the smoke had cleared away and
the dead were buried, in spite of all Jewry could do to the con-
trary, our founding fathers, after great hardship and political
chaos, brought forth a Republic. A Republic is the Golden Mean
between an Autocracy (where the few rule) and a Democracy
(where the many rule through direct action). When some of the
delegates to the Constitutional Convention tried to inject the
nostrums of Democracy into the Constitution, George Washing.
ton arose in anger and said: "Let us raise a standard to which
the wise and honest can repair. The event is in the hands of God."
«L Our Constitution provides for a Republic. A Republic is poison
to World Jewry. On the other hand, it is easy for those with
evil designs to gain control of a government which operates as
a Democracy; hence the steady assault on the Constitution. A
sleeping America has allowed its plan of government, as guar-
anteed in the Constitution. to be tossed aside and has embraced
the phobia of Democracy by adopting the initiative, the election
of judges, the referendum and the direct primary. In doing this
we have opened wide the gates for Internationalists to promote
their campaigns against the Republic of the United States.
Democracies have ever been spectacles of turbulence and conten-
tion. Our founding fathers repeatedly warned us to avoid this
type of government. Our Constitution means to the science of
Government what the digits mean to the science of arithmetic
or the chromatic scale means to the science of music: in other
words, it is the key to the science of governm('nt. In a Republic,
the few are protected from the many, and the many, from the
few. "Jewocracy" or, in other words, Communism, easily takes
a Democracy, turns it upside down, makes the many think they
are to govern themselves, but in actuality, the many are controlled
by the worst sort of Autocracy. It is in that direction we are
drifting today.
Anselm "Red Shield" Rothschild got his twenty millions and free-
dom for his people from the Ghettos. Whereupon Jews im-
32
mediately scuttled like cockroaches all over Europe. All the
five sons of Anselm immediately made themselves solid with the
leading bankers of five great continental capitals, and the five
daughters were artfully married off to various foreigners and
political Big-Wigs. France was an especial goal of exploitation
where the German Jews wanted to "dig in" and entrench them-
selves against any influences of the more esthetic and spiritual
Sephardim. So utilizing the nefarious Illuminati again, the
French Revolution was subtly precipitated. For a more complete
history of Jewish manipulation of this Red Terror, read Mrs.
Webster's books.
At any rate, when the French Revolution had accomplished its
purposes, Count Cherep-Spiridovitch tells us that it had to be
halted. So a conscienceless young Corsican was found who would
have no compunction about shooting down his own people if it
served his personal vanities and the aims of his military career.
Napoleon was "chosen" by the "Red-Shields" (Rothschilds),
equipped, financed, and sent forth to serve the further continental
aims of international Jewry.
Napoleon is everywhere acclaimed as a great military genius.
Nowhere except in the world's secret history is it revealed that
"Red-Shield" (Rothschild) gold preceded him, made his military
pathways as easy as possible without giving away this secret al-
liance, and made and unmade monarchs as it pleased the House
of Rothschild to have them toppled around. But note that when
Napoleon broke with the Jews and gave evidence of co-operating
with the Catholic Pope, the skids were mysteriously put under
him and he found himself on Elba. He staged a return and came
to Waterloo. De Grouchy "mysteriously" was delayed in sup-
porting him and his star had set. Meantime, Nathan Mayer,
son of Anselm, on Sunday, the eighteenth of June, 1815, on the
battlefield at \Vaterloo, noting that the battle had gone strictly
according to his plans, mounted a horse, rode to the coast, got
a fast boat across to London, and, simulating a victory for Na-
poleon, sprang a panic on the English Exchange which tumbled
33
stocks down to zero where Nathan's agents scooped them in at
panic prices. Next day, when the real truth became known,
Nathan didn't need any more German loans to finance inter-
national Jewry. He had cleaned up in one of the greatest stock
market coups in modern history.
So the "Red-Shield" (Rothschild) fortune which proceeded to
make and unmake political regimes on the Continent up to the
time of the World War, was first founded on the dead bodies of
American patriots and then securely established on a colossal lie
which beggared thousands of Englishmen.
Incidentally, when Anselm came to pay back his loan to William
the Landgrave, the Jew was made a present of the interest.
Figured even at four percent, the interest on that amount for 20
years amounts of itself to 16 millions of dollars. Quite a tidy
sum to receive as a "gift."
So the Rothschild fortune was launched, and its repository in
America today is the banking house of Kuhn, Loeb & Company,
whose late president, Jacob Schiff, presented Lenin with a cool
million dollars to finance Russian-jewish Bolshevism, now known
as Communism, and whose younger generation helped to formu-
late through Paul Warburg, the Federal Reserve banking system.
fI. With these facts as background-facts, by the way, that have
never been denied by international Jewry-is it not rather patent
why we cannot make headway in cleaning up America until this
pernicious element is shorn of its power?
WAS LINCOLN A VICTIM OF THE PLOT?
IN 1876, Bismarck revealed to Conrad Siem the double-cross-
ing by international Jews of the Northern States trying to win
our Civil War and hold our Union together. Bismarck said
concerning the martyred Abraham Lincoln: "He was anti-slavist
and he was elected as such. But his character prevented him
from being the man of one party. While he had affairs in his
hands, he perceived that those sinister finanCiers of Europe, the
34
Rothschilds, wished to make him direct their designs. But Lincoln
read their plots and soon understood that the South was not the
country's worst foe, but these Jewish financiers. He decided to
eliminate the international Jewish bankers by establishing a
system of loans, allowing the States to borrow directly from the
people, without intermediary•••• He obtained from Congress
the right to borrow from the people by selling to it the bonds
of the States. The local banks were only too glad to help such a
system, and the government and the nation escaped the plots of
the foreign nnanciers. They understood at once that the United
States would escape their grip. . • • The death of Lincoln was
decided upon! Nothing was easier than to find a fanatic to strike.
The death of Lincoln was a disaster for Christendom. There was
no man big enough in the United States to wear his shoes. And
Israel went anew to grab the riches of the world. . • . I fear that
Jewish banks with their craftiness and tortuous tricks will en-
tirely control the exuberant riches of America, and use it to
systematically corrupt modem civilization."
Now we can understand why the Federal Government had such
a difficult time raising funds for the Civil \Var. Possibly the fact
that one of the main instigators of the Southern Secession was
one Judah P. Benjamin, a Jew, who later became its Secretary
of State, will explain the foreign aid to the Confederacy. Ac-
cording to the Jewish Encyclopedia, "Throughout, Benjamin was
Jefferson Davis' most intimate and most influential adviser, and
was generally described as the 'brains of the Confederacy.' Ben-
jamin's most important labors were, however, rendered in con-
nection with the diplomatic activities of the Confederacy. Un-
fortunately, a thorough study of the diplomacy of the Confed-
eracy has not yet been published, nor any adequate biography
of Benjamin, of which that would be the principal chapter. But
by such a publication it would be shown how near the Con-
federacy came to securing European intervention-particularly
through the aid of Napoleon Ill. ..
We next wonder how much can be properly classed as "diplo-
35
matic activities" in considering the death of Lincoln at the hands
of Booth. In an issue of Harpers Pictorial History of the Civil
War, issue of Oct. 8. 1894, p. 788, we read, "It was afterward
proved that a cipher found in Booth's trunk corresponded to that
used by the Confederate Secretary of State, Judah P. Benjamin."
As a portion of the evidence offered before the Military Com-
mission at the trial of the conspirators, the following was quoted
by Harper's: "Charles A. Dana, Assistant Secretary of War,
testified that he went to Richmond April 6, and there found in
Benjamin's office the key to an official cipher. It is a machine
about a foot long and eight inches high, and consists of a cylinder
of wood, which has a paper envelope inscribed with letters; the
cylinder revolves on pivot-holes at each end, and a bar across the
top contains indices pointing down to the letters. Major Eckert
then being sworn, testified that a cipher found in Booth's trunk
corresponded with that of which Dana had spoken."
But there is yet a more fearsome factor in world Jewry of which
the layman knows next to nothing and which must now be con-
sidered. The ancient Sanhedrin that Jesus had denounced in
language that left nothing to diplomacy, and that sent the pleas-
ing response to the Sephardic Jews being "persecuted" by Louis
V, had by no means been inactive throughout this time. Out-
growing Palestine, capitalizing on all Jewish "persecutions"
affecting to carry on the fight for Christian tolerance toward this
scheming, predatory people, it began to adopt world-wide aspects
after the admirable maneuverings of the Maver clan. Thus do
we arrive at the impressive structure of the Kahal.
THE POWERFUL KAHAL
AMERICAN S living in New York frequently hear of the
Jews giving Kehillah parties in city blocks, but the fact that
the Kahal is a vast network of espionage and predatory action
for world-wide Jewry, and that it correlates the progress of the
Jewish nationals all over the earth, has only been authentically
36
uncovered since the Boer War, mostly by the British military and
secret service agents.
Try and grasp fully what now is to be disclosed:
In the time of George Washington there were about 4,000 Jews
in this country. Most of them were well-to-do traders. In 1783
the United States became the first country to grant them civil
equality, and ever since they have enjoyed political equality.
According to published figures of the Jewish Statistical Bureau,
the Jewish population in the United States increased from 229,-
087 in 1877 to 4,228,029 in 1927, and apparently no Jewish
census figures have been released to the general public since 1927.
However, we have received from an authoritative source, figures
compiled by the Jewish World Government for its own purpose
of levying poll taxes on Jews in all countries of the world, which
tabulations indicate that in 1937 there were in United States
]2,046,648 Jews, of whom about 4,000,000 were of foreign
birth. Which means that the country was supporting 7,8]8.619
more Jews than in 1927; an increase of 15,000 a week or 2,200
a day. Whatever the true figure, when the statement is made
that the most powerful among them are effectively controlled by
one international organization so tightly constructed that one
man rules it from the top. the information is labeled fantastic.
But wait! Listen to what espionage agents of several countries
have attested before responsible committees:-
The Kahal officials divide the world into the two hemispheres;
the Eastern and the Western. As the United States lies in the
western hemisphere, we will confine ourselves to that alone.
The Kahal is reputed to be constructed on the mystical Fig-
lire Seven, At the head of the hemisphere is placed the Sponsor.
The Sponsor for the eastern hemisphere is not of consequence
herein. However, both Sponsors, for both hemispheres, are reo
puted to be accountable only to Aka'dham, the Unknown and
Uncrowned Prince of Jewry throughout the earth, whose iden-
tity is kept a guarded secret. He has, as has been quoted. his
Prince-Sponsors in each hemisphere. and under these Prince-
37
Sponsors divides the Seven-times-Seven organization-
Under each Sponsor are put seven Arch-Censors
Under each Arch-Censor, seven Minisrers
Under each Minister, seven Heralds
Under each Herald, seven Couriers
Under each Courier, seven Scriveners
Under each Scrivener, seven Auditors
Under each Auditor, seven Mutes
These figure out to 960,800 male Jews in each hemisphere, organ-
ized into a tight, rigidly controlled body, every man knowing all the
men under him, but only the one man above him, and all responsi-
ble to the Prince-Sponsor at the top. There is no Jew of conse-
quence in North America who is not involved in this organization
-terrible in its power for predatory control of Christian society-
or who is not listed somewhere down the line on the roster of its
obedient adherents. Such an organization can, of course, be terri-
ble for the peace or upset of any nation. It can set up or pull
down Gentile governments, start or stop wars ae its pleasure, con-
trot the most intricate dealings of Leagues of Nations, besides
dominating all officialdom, determining the money standards of
nations, including America's, directing its economics, intimidating
or controlling the nation's newspapers, radio, and movie screen,
so that nothing can be released that is inimical to its farflung in-
rerests, Careful researchers, who are not in its pay, declare that they
have traced the prevailing depression in America directly to its
threshold. Presidents have been elected by its money. Its di.
recting heads and their satraps, often camouflaged politely in
press and Congress as "International Bankers" have been busily
engaged in buying-in America at bankruptcy prices, effectively
looting and eliminating the United States permanently from its
pathway as a major power, reducing it to the status of a third-
rate vassal state subject to their officers-Isaacs, Sassoon, Samuel,
et aI-in the so-called "British" Cabinet.
This would seem to be the "influence" to which President Wilson
38
referred on his return from Versailles when he said that "there
was a secret power in Europe with which" he could "not cope."
Was this not the same power that started the World War in
furtherance of its schemes, and that proved so effective that
the statement is made on espionage authority that orders were
given to the British Admiralty that at no time during the
war was Berlin, Hamburg or Frankfort to be raided, shelled or
bombed, because their homes and families were there and they
had no intention of suffering physically or jeopardizing their lives
in this war which they had conceived for their own world plans
and financial profit?
Sir Douglas Haig, English Field-Marshal, obviously under the
influence of his "secretary"-Philip Sassoon of the family of
Bagdad Jews-explained that the English were too "humane" to
bomb cities holding innocent women and children. That suited
gullible Christians, and heaped full odium on the "Germans"
who ordered such atrocities from Berlin to be perpetrated on
London. And it did save the necks of the Kehillah Jews!
Small wonder that, with the whole Christian world hoodwinked
into an international war, killing each other's nationals off by the
hundreds of thousands, Judah celebrated Der Tag, or the Day
of the Jews coming into their own!
GERMANY
No ONE knows where we would be today if a Bolshevist
Reich had come into Stalin's power. It would have been
self-annihilation had Germany failed to heed her peril and
had allowed the program of mass destruction of human life to
be carried out. The loyal German people fought the Communists
for ten years and when, at last successful, they started deporting
the aliens that were responsible for the chaos, the fact chat so
many of them were Eastern Jews caused the rest of International
Jewry to raise the old hue and cry of "persecution." There is
39
nothing that indicates so clearly the ownership and control of
most of the American Press as the fact that the vilification of Hie-
ler has been constantly wedded to a subtle praise of the Red Rus-
sian system in our newspapers.
Kahal officials had perfected their power over Germany and
the Germans long before the outbreak of the war. In fact, their
ascendency dates back to Bismarck who was surrounded and dom-
inated by the Jews and who saw to it that Germany was turned
over to the Princes of Jewry back in 1870 exactly as America is
being turned over to the Princesof Jewry now.
The Jews were the only people who were able to use Bismarck
so that all liberal reforms in Germany would tum out to the
profit of the Jews.
An industrialist who visited the Prussian War Ministry in Sep-
tember, 1914, told with amazement that he found Jews predomi-
nating in this high office, and not German officers and military
officials as he had expected.
Herr Walther Rathenau, a Jew, sat in a large room, at an enor-
mous secretary writing-table and "dispensed" or gave away army
contracts. Around him were seated, almost without exception,
Jewish clerks and Jewish business people.
The feeble government under Emperor Wilhelm II which had al-
ready favored Jews in all important positions, allowed this to hap-
pen, owing to its perplexity and ignorance. In the course of
the war, the fact arose conspicuously to the surface that since the
beginning of Wilhelm II's reign, the Jews had been the real rulers
of the German Empire.
For the previous 15·years those in immediate personal contact with
the Kaiser were mainly Jewish financiers, Jewish manufacturers
and Jewish merchants like Emil and Walther Rarhenau, Balin,
Schwebach, James Simon, Friedlander-Fuld, Goldberger, Guttman,
Hulshinisky, Katsenstein and others.
Upon the change from the old regime to the new, that is, from
the monarchy to the so-called republic, the cabinet composed of
six men, which superseded the Ministry of State, was dominated
40
by the Jews Haase and Landsberg. Haase had control of foreign
aHairs. His assistant was the Jew Kaursky, a Czech, who in 1918
was not even a German citizen.
Associated with Haase were the Jews Cohen and Herzfeld. The
Jewish financial Minister of State was Schiffer, assisted by the
Jew Bernstein. The Secretary of the Interior was the Jew
Pruess, with the Jew Dr. Fround for his assistant. The Jew Fritz
Max Cohen was government publicity agent.
The Kingdom of Prussia duplicated this condition of affairs. The
Jews Hirsch and Rosenfeld dominated the Cabinet, with Rosen-
feld controlling the Department of Justice and Hirsch the De-
partment of Interior. The Jew Simon was engaged in the Treas-
ury Department. The Prussian Department of Justice was wholly
manned and operated by Jews. The Jew Kastenberg was Director
of the Department of Art. The War Food Supply was directed
by the Jew Wurm, while in the State Food Department were
the Jews Dr. Hirsch and the Geheimarat Dr. Stradthagen. The
Soldier's and Workmen's Committee was directed by the Jew
Cohen, wirh the Jews Stem, Hertz, Katsenstein, Lowenberg,
Frankel, Israelowicz, Laubenheim, Saligsch, Laufenberg, Hei-
mann, Scheisinger, Marz and Weyl having control of the various
activities of the Committee.
The Jew Ernst was Chief of Police at Berlin. In the same office
in Frankfort was the Jew Sinzheimer, in Munich the Jew Steimer,
in Essen, Jew Levy.
It will be remembered that the Jew Wisner was President of
Bavaria, his finanical adviser being the Jew Jaffe. Bavaria's trade
and commerce were in the hands of the half-Jew Brentano. The
Jews Lipinky and Schwarz were active in the government of
Saxony; the Jews Thalheimer and Heimann in Wurtemburg, the
Jew Fulda in Essen.
Two of the delegates sent to the Peace Conference were Jews and
a third was notoriously the tool of Jewish purposes. In addition,
Jews swarmed through the German delegation as "experts" and
"advisers"-Max Warburg, Dr. von Straus, Morton, Oskar Op-
41
penheimer, Dr. Jaffe, Deutsch, Brcntano, Struck, Wasserman and
Mendelsohn-Bartholdi.
15 it any wondet that with such a state of affairs obtaining, Hitler
should have been espoused by the pure-blooded German people
as a leader who would rid them of this Kahal Frankenstein,
whose American arm has already become quite as offensive to en-
lightened persons here in the United States?
Hitler preached a doctrine of "Germany for the Germans" and
we should preach a doctrine of "America for Americans." Hit-
ler used a steel wedge "to split a hardwood block" and at once
when he had gained to power and started breaking up this Kahal
monopoly, it set its publicity machinery at work all over the
world to defame and misrepresent him, suggest boycotts, and in-
troduce resolutions in houses of government which if acted upon
would lead to war. It is obvious that the Kahal controlled press
-which constitutes about 90 per cent of American metropolitan
newspapers-and the radio and the screen, received their orders to
acclaim Hitler as a monster and "persecutor" who had "set Europe
back into the Dark Ages." Protest meetings were held, the old
whine about Christian tolerance for God's Chosen People was
dragged forth again, dusted off, and made to do service in stirring
up protests. Hitler had thrown a big monkey wrench into the
Kahal's machinery in its steady progress for intemational domi-
nation, and with characteristic lack of any sportsmanship, the
Jews began to gather around a new wailing wall and fill the air
of the nations with their hypocritical lamentations. Wherever
a Jew is blocked in the accomplishment of a predatory scheme
against Gentiles, he will immediately whine "persecution" or "lack
of tolerance." .
The description of German national life during her period of
strife almost fits our present order. The whole of her people
were near losing their national honor, hundreds of thousands of
her children were being taught by atheist teachers, filthy and dirty
literature adorned all her news stands, and anti-Christian and im-
moral films constituted the choicest dish of entertainment. The
42
International Red Relief (the same as our American Civil Liber-
ties Union) worked under the cover of humanitarianism at aiding
in. the defense of persons (Communists) charged with political
cnrnes.
As is stated in the book "Are These Things So?": "A nation
that is practically united in its campaign against Bolshevism and
Communism, controlled by Jews, is not to be condemned by the
same race which produces these elements which have for their
objective the destruction of nationalism and substituting for it a
form of Sovietism which is abhorrent to everyone who knows how
it actually operates in practice. Hitler saw the sword of Damocles
hanging over Germany and in saving Germany from this insidious
foe it meant that he acted as any courageous leader would act
to defend his country, which, in brief, was to protect it from
the false Jew. America ought to be grateful for the barrier that
is thus being created in its behalf, rather than join with those who
are on record as having ulterior designs against this country which
was once the land of the free and the home of the brave."
A fitting tribute to the fact that Germany is solving her Com-
munist problem is the experience that befell Hitler's representative
to the Chicago World's Fair when he landed in this country on
May 25th, 1933. The New York Times next day captioned:
"Nazi Envoys Saved from Reds at Pied" and then proceeded to
tell how it required the strenuous efforts of one hundred police-
men to save these envoys from one thousand Communists. The
envoys escaped from the mob by being spirited away from the liner
in a tug.
There are nearly 600,000 Jews in Germany who protested Ger-
many's condemnation at the hands of our "American" press.
The following is a part of a letter sent to the American Embassy
at Berlin by the Federation of Jewish Soldiers who fought at the
front. Dated April 7, 1933, it reads: "We think, however, that
it is about time to cease the agitation against Germany carried on
by so-called Jewish intellectuals abroad. These men who, for the
most part, never laid claim to being German, left their fellow.
43
Jews, for whom they claim to be fighting, in the lurch, and fled
abroad at the crucial moment. They have forfeited the right to
act as spokesmen in German-Jewish matters."
The story of what happened in England, placing England in Jew-
ish Kahal power, is too long to be told here, but Great Brit-
ain's vassalage to the Sassoons, the Normans, the Samuels, and
the Monds, is quite as complete as that of Germany before Hitler
began dethronement of the anti-Christ element. Is it not odd that
while the proven records of Jewish killings in Germany amount-
ing to only three in number have received untold publicity, yet
the destruction of over thirty millions of Gentiles in Russia has
not even received world admission? Perhaps it gives you a bit
of an idea of who controls our press.
RUSSIA
, V THY is it that we are told that the whole population of S0-
W viet Russia is kept at work and enjoys a measure of equal-
ity not enjoyed elsewhere in the world? Why is it contin-
ually harped upon, regarding "persecution" of the Jews in Ger-
many? Why are we not told the truth concerning the tragedies
that are being enacted by untold millions in Communistic Rus-
sia? Why is the fact hidden from us that in 1929 alone, 1,370
church properties in Russia were either confiscated or destroyed?
and that since then, other thousands of buildings used for reli-
gious worship have been closed and that only atheists can obtain
work or food cards? Why is it that we are not told that an
organized plan is being carried out by the present Communist
government to wipe out the institution of family life, that people
have been starved until they have had to resort to cannibalism?
The facts that you have heard and read should give you your
answer. If there were not worldwide organization behind it-
and the same organization that controls our press-we would
know about it!
Possibly the foothold that this pernicious element has obtained in
44
our governmental institutions and administration can be appre-
ciated when it is known that no money can be appropriated for
the protection of our homes and families against the growing on-
slaught of Communism-the type of government that has been
engaged, and is now engaged, in the systematic killing of the
Christian population of that same country.
The ThirJ International, a newspaper published in Moscow, gives
the following official list of admitted Bolshevik murders in Red
Russia, prior to 1933:
1 Royal family and seven innocent persons.
28 Bishops and Archbishops.
6,775 Priests.
6,575 Teachers
8,500 Doctors,
54,850 Officers.
260,000 Soldiers.
150,000 Police Officers.
48,000 Gendarmes (detectives).
355,250 Intellectuals.
198,000 Workers.
915,000 Peasants.
The above figures were referred to by Congressman Hamilton
Fish of the State of New York in his speech before the House
of Representatives on February 29, 1932. It would be well
worth your while to send ten cents to the Bureau of Printing and
Engraving at Washington, D. C; and obtain the Congressional
Report on "Communistic Activities in the United States." It is
interesting to note that this Congressional Report was never al-
lowed to be read on the floor of Congress; it was buried in one
of rhe committees.
In this same Communistic Government of Soviet Russia you will
note that the officialsare preponderantly Jews. Below are statistics
showing proximate participation of Jews in the present Soviet
Government. The word "proximate" is used because there is a
normal fluctuation of affiliations due to daily or weekly dismissals,
45
deaths, etc. Before we proceed let us remember that the U. S.
s. R., stands for the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. Thus,
any other country being converted to Communism automatically
becomes attached to the U. S. S. R., receiving orders from Mos-
cow. Here is the list:
Office Total Jews
Members of the Government (Total) 503 406
Commissioners of the People 22 18
.. for War 43 34
.. of the Interior 64 45
.. of the Exterior 17 13
.. for Finance 30 25
Of for Justice 19 18
.. for Hygiene 5 4
.. for Public Welfare 53 44
.. of Labor 7 6
.. for Social Aid 6 6
.. for the Provinces 23 21
The Economic Council 56 45
Soviet Members in Moscow 23 19
Editors of the Official Press 42 41
The above information is not the product of Gentile discernings.
According to the "Jewish Chronicle" of January 6, 1933, "over
one-third of the Jews in Russia have become officials." Anti-
Semitism in Russia is now classed as counter-revolutionary, and
is punished by death. It is significant, that the Red Star
which in former times was the symbol of Zionism, is now
the symbol of the Russian Proletariat. If' England were to be
overthrown by a revolution and, as a result of that revolution the
government were left almost entirely in the hands of some other
nationaliry, would you not say then that this other nationality was
responsible for the revolution? Of the 224 revolutionaries who
in 1917 were dispatched with Lenin to Russia to foment Bolshevik
Revolution, 170 were Jews.
An individual who works for the Travelers' Life Insurance Com-
46
pany, residing in Omaha at present, saw cannibalism in Russia in
1923, when he was purser on an American vessel. This man also
saw over fifty children that were starved to the point where they
were more like little animals than human beings, herded together
in a shack that had no doors, packing themselves together in order
to keep warm overnight. He saw them the next morning, two in
the center suffocated and trampled, and three on the outside froz-
en, their lifeless bodies to be then dragged away by a pack of hun-
gry dogs and eaten. Communism has been progressmg in our coun-
try for fifteen years, and is getting worse in every other country
but Italy, Germany, Austria, Spain, and Japan.
Do you care to see your children torn from you and left to shift
for themselves like a pack of animals? Do you care to see your
wife the property of beasts? Read part of an official Soviet
Decree:
"This decree is proclaimed by the Free Association of Anarchists
of the Town of Sararov, In compliance with the decision of the
Soviet Peasants, Soldiers and Workmen Deputies of Kronstadt,
the private possession of women is abolished.
"Social unequalities and legitimate marriage having been a con-
dition in the past which served as an instrument in the hands of
the bourgeoisie, thanks to which all the best species of the beauti-
ful have been the property of the bourgeoisie, who have prevented
the continuation of the human race." Such ponderous arguments
have induced the organization to edit the following decrees:
"I. From March 1, 1918, the right to possess women having
reached the age of 17 and not more than 32 is abolished.
"3. The decree does not affect women having five children.
"4. The former owners may retain the right of using their wives
without waiting for their tum.
",. In case of the husbands resisting, they shall forfeit the
rights given them in the last paragraph.
"6. All women from this decree are exempted from private
ownership and are proclaimed to be the property of the whole
nation.
47
"14. All women proclaimed by the decree to be national property
will receive from the funds an allowance of 238 rubles a month.
"15. All women who become pregnant are released from direct
duties for four months, three months before and one month
after childbirth.
"16. Children born are given to an institution for training until
they are 17 years old, at the cost of the Public Funds.
(Signed) Council of the City of Saratov."
The terrible consequences of this type of decree cannot better be
shown than by a quotation from what a missionary on the Russian
Border said in The Christian Alliance Weekly. It is as follows:
f[ "A Russian From Soviet Russia reports, under oath in a public
court, that in Moscow the police made a street drive, bringing
all the homeless children and young people together. They were
inspected by a medical man as to their condition. Out of this
mass from 1,200 to 1,400 were singled out, and by means of a
good substantial meal, and other favors, they were induced to
march with soldiers on horseback out of Moscow into the open
country. At last they halted. The soldiers on the horses were on
the outside of the children's and young people's group, driving
them into a bundle tight together. A word of command. Hid-
den machine guns began a weird song of death. In a few min-
utes the whole group of humanity was a mass of dead and dying.
The machine guns were silent. Soldiers came to bury everything
that was left. Why was all this? From 1,200 to 1,400 young
people, living on the streets of Moscow, had become so diseased
that the government knew of no other way to get rid of the
plague."
This, then, is the type of government that the United States was
forced to recognize in spite of the fact that over two hundred
patriotic organizations in the United States protested vehemently
against such a procedure. This is the type of government that
has openly avowed as its purpose the overthrowing of the United
States Government and its replacement by a Soviet America.
48
Should we not be interesred? The large number of people who
think the Communists are worthy of some consideration because
they "overthrew" the "terrible" Czar Regime is another ever-
present testimony of the effectiveness of Red propagandization.
What are the facts? There were two Russian revolutions. The
first came with the abdication of Nicholas II, on March 16, 1917;
this marked the end of the Russian Empire. The governing
power then devolved upon the Duma, the only legal mandate-
holding group in the country. A provisional government, under
Kerensky, was organized, and was immediately recognized by the
United States, our government being the first to recognize the
right of the Russian people to revolt. Russia lived under a
democratic form of government for about eight months, until
November 7, 1917, at which time about 30,000 or 40,000 com-
munists, falsely promising to satisfy the land hunger of the peas-
ants, took over the Russian nation, the same being under the
supervision of Lenin (a Jew), who, with thirty others. mostly
members of the same race, was aIlowed to go through Germany
in a sealed car, financed by Schiff money. The then Jewishly
controlled German government was responsible for the assistance
that enabled this band of international racketeers to place this
vast nation in bondage [pp, 69 and 70 of this Fish Congressional
Report) .
THEPROTOCOLS
The Protocols consist of 24 documents first published in Russia.
"Protocol" means "Minutes of Procedure"-and in this case, al-
leged to mean "Minutes of Proceedings" of the Learned Elders
of Zion; addresses delivered to an innermost circle of the Rulers of
Zion. Jewish authorities deny the authenticity of these documents.
In an interview (Feb. 17, 1921), given publicity in the New
York World, Mr. Henry Ford, expressing himself with regard
to the Protocols, said:
"They fit in with what is going on . . • they have fitted the
world situation up to this time. They fit it now."
49
The authenticity of the Protocols is proved as you would prove
mathematical problems; as you would prove the work of an
electrician by pushing the electric button. The Protocols are
proved in the manner, habits and customs of the Jews themselves,
and the results which have followed Jewish participation in civic,
social, industrial, financial and political problems. The Jews
Have Lived Up to The Protocols. The book in which they are
embodied was published by Sergyei Nilus in Russia in 1905. A
copy of this book is in the British Museum bearing the date of
its reception, August 10, 1906. All copies that were known to
exist in Russia were destroyed in the Kerensky regime, and under
his successors the possession of a copy by anyone in Sovietland
was a crime sufficient to ensure the owner's being shot on sight.
The Protocols were translated byVictor E. Marsden, who was
in Russia for many years; he was an Englishman who married
a Russian lady, and he was the Russian correspondent for the
Morning Post. They have been and are being published by the
Britons Publishing Society, 40 Great Ormond Street, London, W.
C. 1. This same company also publishes a translation of Protocols
other than the ones edited by Nilus, There is also another Pro-
tocol given out in the Fifteenth Century; it cannot be held to be
a forgery because it was taken from a Rothschild journal.
The Protocols were also published in London in 1919 by Eyre
and Spottiswoode, the official printers for the British Government.
All through them there is left no doubt at whom the plan is
aimed; not at capital as such, not at aristocracy as such, not at
government-in fact, all three are provided for in their enlistment
as part of the plan. The plan is aimed against the people of the
world who are called Gentiles. The Protocols are not meant as
propaganda; they comprise a cold. analytical discussion of what
has been done, what is going on, and what is to be done in the
future. It must be remembered, however, that they were given
utterance in the latter part of the Nineteenth Century, and a
good deal of that which was described as plans for future accom-
plishment is now completed.
50
In the Tenth Protocol a reference was made to the term "Pana-
ma." The use of the word in the Protocols refers to the various
scandals which arose over the original efforts to construct the
Panama Canal. The only other instance where this same term
was used is when Herzl, the great Jewish Zionist leader, used
the expression in 'The Jewish State." In this publication, while
discussing the management of Palestine, he says that" the society
of the Jews will see to it that the enterprise does not become a
'Panama,' but a ·Suez'."
The Protocols have been referred to and parts of them quoted
on the Hoor of Congress by the late Hon. Louis T. McFadden of
Pennsylvania more than once. If you care to look up such an
occasion, you can refer to McFadden's speech in the Congressional
Record for May 29, 1933. If further proof is necessary, just
observe daily events as they are taking place and compare them
with the text of the Protocols. Little incidents that were hereto-
fore meaningless will now be seen to be parts of a world-wide
plan, every piece will fit.
In Protocol III is a reference to the Symbolic Snake of Judaism.
In this epilogue to the 1905 Edition of the Protocols, Nilus gives
the following interesting account of the symbol:
"According to the records of secret Jewish Zionism, Solomon and
other Jewish learned men already, in 929, B. c., thought out a
scheme in theory for a peaceful conquest of the whole universe by
Zion.
"As history developed, this scheme was worked out in detail and
completed by men who were subsequently initiated in this question.
These men decided by peaceful means to conquer the world for
Zion with the slyness of the Symbolic Snake, whose head was to
represent those who had been initiated into the plans of the Jew-
ish Administration, and the body of the Snake to represent the
Jewish people. The administration was always kept secret, even
from the lewish nation itself. As this Snake penetrated into the
hearts of the nations which it encountered, it undermined and
devoured all the non-Jewish power of these States. It is foretold
51
that the snake has still to finish its work, strictly adhering to the
designed plan, until the course which it has run is closed by the
return of its head to Zion and until, by this means, the Snake has
completed its round of Europe and has encircled it-and until, by
dint of enchaining Europe, it has encompassed the whole world.
This it is to accomplish by every endeavor to subdue the other
countries by an economic conquest.
"The return of the head of the Snake to Zion can only be ac-
complished after the power of all the Sovereigns of Europe has
been laid low, that is to say, when by means of economic crises
and wholesale destruction effected everywhere, there shall have
been brought about a spiritual demoralization and a moral corrup-
tion, chiefly with the assistance of Jewish women masquerading
as French, Italians, etc. These are the surest spreaders of licen-
tiousness into the lives of the men at the heads of nations."
fI. In Nilus' Edition a map was next shown which charted the
course of the Symbolic Snake, such course being as follows:
Greece, 429 B. c.. Rome, 69 B. c, Madrid, 1552; Paris, 1790;
Berlin, 1871; and St. Petersburg, 1881. You do not have to be
much of a student of history to understand the importance of the
above dates as dates of Revolutions in the World's history. Nilus
goes on to say:
"In economic conditions England and Germany are spared, but
only until the conquest of Russia is accomplished by the Snake,
on which at present (1905) all its efforts are concentrated."
In reading the Protocols, one is impressed with the fact that they
are too inclusive in their application in covering every phase of
human activity to be the work of a single individual, or the
product of even one generation of a group of writers.
In Marsden's translation the words "Goyim" and "Agentur" were
retained, the first meaning non-Jews and the second one meaning
international organization. We will now quote excerpts from
the Protocols and show their application to distinct fields oJ
present-day activity:
RELIGION
(From Protocol No.4): "But even freedom might be harmless
and have its place in the State economy without injury to the
well-being of the peoples if it rested upon the foundation of faith
in God, upon the brotherhood of humanity, unconnected with
the conception of equality, which is negatived by the very laws
of creation, for thev have established subordination. With such
a faith as this a people might be governed by a wardship of
parishes, and would walk contentedly and humbly under the
guiding hand of its spiritual pastor, submitting to the. dispositions
of God upon earth. This is the reason why it is indispensahle for
us to undermine all faith, to tear out of the minds of the Govim
the very principle of Godhead and the spirit, and to put in' its
place arithmetical calculations and material needs."
(From Protocol No. 14): "When we come into our kingdom
it will be undesirable for us that there should exist any other re-
ligion than ours of the One God with whom our destiny is bound
up by our position as the Chosen People and through whom our
same destiny is united with the destinies of the world. We must
therefore sweep away all other forms of belief. If this gives birth
to the atheists whom we see today, it will not, being only a transi-
tional stage, interfere with our views, but will serve as a warning
for those generations which will hearken to our preaching of the
religion of Moses, that, by its stable and thoroughly elaborated
system, has brought all the peoples of the world into submission
to us."
Bernard Lazare, a Jew, in his book, "L'Antisemitisme," says on
page 350: "The Jew is not satisfied with de-Christianizing, he
]udaises, he destroys the Catholic or Protestant faith, ne pro-
vokes indifference, but he imposes his idea of the world. of more
als, and of life upon those whose faith he ruins; he works at his
age.old task, the annihilation of the religion of Christ."
Now recall once more the first "ideal" of Illuminism; it is
"Hatred of God and all forms of religion." And the first "ideal"
53
of Communism is, "The abolition of all forms of religious be-
lief." The quotation from the Protocols gives you the reason.
The application has been a long and tedious process, but it is
now bearing fruit. We have now reached the place where this
poison, having been injected so thoroughly, is changing the atti-
tude, not only of a large share of Gentile Christians, but even
ministers, toward the Fundamenral precepts of Christianity. In
fact, it has been thorough to such a degree that, in showing the
direct application to some of the present-day pseudo-religious
bodies, we have to discuss it in fields outside of religion. Not
content with sowing seeds of atheism, large tracts on socialism,
pacifism, internationalism, and other "isms" are being grafted
into the sermons for our churchgoers. While in many instances
good sermons find their way to their hearers, the actions of these
so-called spiritual leaders and their associates are so loud and
far-flung in many lines of communist propagandization that the
few objections are of little consequence.
To begin with, Modernism is not modem. It began with the
"higher criticism." According to Rev. Merton Smith, the Jewish-
German professors who were responsible for this "higher criti-
cism" were Well hausen, Strauss, Ewald, Kuene and Hitzig. "The
philosophers that bemuddled the brains of our theologians pre-
paratory to the coming of the Higher Criticism were Jews:
Spinoza and Kant."
Today, these fruits have ripened into such organizations as
"The Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America." Since
its organization in 1908 over 75 per cent of its finances have come
from sources outside of its church membership. Members of
Protestant congregations do no voting on its policies.
delegates meet only once every four years and are entertained by
a well-planned program. It has no responsibility to any church
body, and because of this, its resolutions represent a meddling in
political alfairs by encouraging the slacker oath, fostering Youth
Movements that can be directly connected with Soviet Russia,
and compiling booklets along "liberal" lines. We might also
'4
add that it worked very vociferously for the recognition of Russia.
Among the members of its "secretarial council" is Harry F. Ward,
who has probably been the most active in passing "advanced" reso-
lutions. Please remember that Ward is a joint-director of the
American Civil Liberties Union along with Roger Baldwin. The
philosophy of Ward's bed-fellows is best illustrated by Baldwin's
testimony before the Fish Committee of the United States Con-
gress as to the policies of the American Civil Liberties Union
(p. 56 of Congressional Report, No. 2290):
"The Chairman: 'Does your organization uphold the right of a
citizen or alien-it does not make any difference which-to ad-
vocate murder?"
"Mr. Baldwin: 'Yes.'
"The Chairman: 'Or assassination?'
"Mr. Baldwin: 'Yes.'
"The Chairman: 'Does it uphold the right of an alien in this
country to urge the overthrow and advocate the overthrow of the
Government by force and violence?"
"Mr. Baldwin: 'Precisely on the same basis as any citizen'."
In the "League for Industrial Democracy" Ward's associates in-
cluded Nonnan Thomas, Stuart Chase, Florence Kelly, Harry
Laidler, and four score or more other "loyal Americans." Among
the many pamphlets distributed by this organization, published
with aid from the Communist Garland Fund, is the one entitled
"Roads to Freedom," by Harry Laidler. It urges groups to study
"The Communist Manifesto" by Marx, "State of Revolution" and
"Soviets at Work" by Lenin.
In the foregoing we are diverging quite a way from religious
discussion, but it is necessary to show the extent to which "re-
ligious leaders" try to influence their constituents outside the realm
of spiritual advancement.
One's education is not quite complete until he has examined the
Federal Council's pamphlet entitled "Young People's Relation-
ships." According to Major-General Amos Fries, "Had this
pamphlet come out of Russia direct as its means for breaking
55
down all mortality, the family, and the home, as the final step
toward Communism, we would have felt it well qualified to carry
out the intent of its authors."
All in all, the association of sexual promiscuity, pacifism, socialism,
denationalization, etc., while seemingly puzzle-parts that shouldn't
fit, is nevertheless the foundation of sovietism in its practical ap-
plication in Russia.
Evidence of the groundwork is shown by Sherwood Eddy's state-
ment in Fremont, Nebraska, April 9, 1934: "The world is rapid-
ly approaching a new era which will combine for all the justice
emphasized by Russia and the personal liberty which is the pride
of America." Again, at the Philadelphia annual conference
(1934) of the Methodist Episcopal Church: "Traditional demon-
strations of respect for the flag and the national anthem are na-
tionalist idolatry." In the February issue (1930) of the "Federal
Council Bulletin" we find, "These two views of life (i. e., the
Christian and the Communist) have much in common-both seek-
ing the salvation of humanity, both are international in outlook
and both create the secure supreme personal loyalty and sacrifice."
Such utter blindness! According to Soviet documents there were
1,766,118 religious victims up until 1922 and not a single church
was to be IE.'ft by 1937.
If there are those that think there is something wrong with Cath-
olicism possibly this excerpt from Protocol No. 17 would indicate
evidence of Jewish meddling:
"We have long past taken care to discredit the priesthood of the
Goyim, and thereby to ruin their mission on earth which in these
days might still be a great hindrance to us. Day by day its influ-
ence on the peoples of the world is falling lower. Freedom of
conscience has been declared everywhere, so that now only years
divide us from the moment of the complete wrecking of that
Christian religion. . . . When the time comes finally to destroy
the papal court the finger of an invisible hand will point the na-
tions toward this court. But, in the meantime, while we are reo
educating youth in new traditional religions and afterwards in
56
ours we shall not overtly lay a finger on existing churches, but
we shall fight against them by criticism calculated to produce
schism."
Toward the end of the fifteenth century, Ferdinand, King of
Spain, ordered all Jews to embrace Christianity or else forfeit
their goods and sulfer expulsion. Upon advice being sought it
was rendered by the Jewish Elders of Constantinople, their Pro-
tocol containing the following: "Acquiesce to this king and his
orders to you, thus saving your lives and your goods from spolia-
tion at his hands, but see to it that your sons are henceforth
reared and trained as clerks, divinity students, theologians, bishops,
cardinals and popes, that by peaceful and assiduous industry they
may in time come to influence in this heathenish sect of the church
therehv diverting its doctrines and policies to your own enhance-
ment." The earlier Protocol from which the above was taken was
rendered in 1489, and was taken from a Rothschild Journal. The
Jesuit Order. responsible for so much Catholic mischief through.
out the world, was founded by pro- [ewish Ignatius Lovola.
The Church being not the sole influence to our morals, we will
quote briefly from Protocol No. 17: "In countries known as
progressive and enlightened we have created a senseless. filthy,
abominable literature." And more from a Protocol of 1869:
"Let us foster the idea of free love, that we may destroy among
Christian women attachment to the principles and practices of
their religion."
PACIFISM
(From Protocol No.2): "The Goyim are not guided by practical
use of unprejudiced historical observation, but by theoretical
routine without any critical regard for consequent results. We
need not, therefore, take any account of them-let them amuse
themselves until the hour strikes, or live on hopes of new forms
of enterprising pastime, or on the memories of all they have en-
joyed. For them let that play the principal part which we have
persuaded them to accept as the dictates of science. It is with
57
this object In view that we are constantly, by means of our press,
arOUSing a blind confidence in these theories. The intellectuals
of the goyim will puff themselves up with their knowledges and
without any logical verification of them will put into effect all the
information available from science which our agentur specialists
have cunningly pieced together for the purpose of educating their
minds in the direction we wane."
The greatest living exponent of the above strategy is none other
than the Jew Einstein. Witness the "blind confidence" that has
been built up in his theory of "relativity"; he is now busily
engaged in "educating their minds in the direction we want,"
Pacifism. According to Dr. Arvid Reuterdahl, President of Ram-
sey Institute of Technology, Einstein's formula of 1916 is nothing
but a formula evolved in 1898 by Gerber, the falsity of which
was shown many times between its birth and appropriation by
Einstein. Einstein is now associated with at least three organiza-
tions that are opposed to the fundamental principles of organized
government. He is on the World Committee of "The W orid
Congress Against Imperialist \X'ar," and helped draft the resolu-
tion which reads in part: "Each of us have pledged and sworn to
fight with all force and with all the means at our command against
imperialistic capitalism ... against armaments, against war prep-
arations, and in consequence against the governments ruling us."
He belongs to the "\'<lorkers International Relief," a well known
affiliate of the Communist International. He belongs to "The
\var Resisters International," which openly admits affiliation with
Communistic groups. They plead for "Peace" with one breath,
and in the next one yell fOT "the overthrow of our capitalistic
g-overnment by means of a broody revolution."
The following is contained in the Communist manual "World
Rules for Civil War": "They must be accused of being class
governments; they must be pushed to extravagant expenditures;
the armed forces must be disorganized and corrupted so that they
will be unavailable when the time comes to isolate the authorities
and paralyze their action." Everyrhing fits.
58
Dr. George A. Coe, in speaking before the Nebraska Council of
Churches at Fremont, Nebraska, on November 21, 1934, urged
parents and teachers to "renounce capitalism and commit them-
selves to building a classless society, demand the truth about
economic causation of war be taught children, take advantage of
the present agitation against munitions firms and if necessary
shame the nation's officials into taking action, campaign against
reserve officers training corps until they are abolished, expose from
the pulpit and by name if necessary the political candidates favor-
ing war, encouraging young people to form radical peace organiza-
tions and take part in demonstrations against war, join the Ameri-
can League Against War and Fascism." (Later changed to The
American League for Peace and Democracy). While digesting
these things remember that according to their own statements the
great effort of the Soviets is to cripple our nation through Pacifism.
MONEY
(From Protocol No. 20): "You are aware that the gold standard
has been the ruin of the States which adopted it, for it has not
been able to satisfy the demands for money, the more so that we
have removed gold from circulation as far as possible."
One of the greatest pieces of fraud that was ever put over on an
American Congress was the demonetization of silver. It was
started in January of 1873 by getting a bill hefore Congress that
was entitled, "A Bill to Reform the Coinage and Mint Laws." It
was understood and represented as dealing with regulations of the
mint laws only and in the bill there was not the slightest intima-
tion that silver was to be demonetized. Covering fifteen pages, it
was championed hefore the Senate by Senator Sherman who, in
his arguments, left no doubt in the minds of the hearers that
he was for the continued free coinage of silver.
According to the Congressional Record for January 17, 1873,
the bill was passed "without a roll call and no dissenting vote."
After passing, signing by the President, and enrollment, the bill
was found to read:
59
"That the gold coins of the United States shall be one dollar a
piece, which, at the weight of twenty-five and eight-tenths grains
shall be the unit of value.
"That the silver coins of the United States shall be a trade dol-
lar, a half dollar or fifty cent piece, a quarter dollar or twenty-five
cent piece, a dime or ten cent piece, and said coins shall be a
legal tender at their nominal value for any amount not exceeding
five dollars in anyone payment.
"That no coins, either of gold or of silver, or minor coinage,
shall hereafter be issued from the Mint, other than those of the
denominations, standards and weights herein set forth." (17
Statutes, 424.)
You Will note that the provision formerly in the statutes giving
the weight of the silver in a dollar at 374!4 grains was left out
and the new law provided that no coins gold or silver, be issued
"other than those of the denominations, standards and weights
herein set forth."
Joseph Cannon afterwards said (Congressional Record of the 44th
Congress, first session, volume 4, part 6, Appendix, page 197),
"This legislation was held in the Forty-second Congress, Feb. 12,
1873, by a bill to regulate the mints of the United States, and
practically abolished silver as money by failing to provide for the
coinage of the silver dollar. It was not discussed, as shown by
the Record, and neither members of Congress nor the people un-
derstood the scope of the legislation."
On October 13, 1873, President Grant, having been fooled, said,
"I wonder that silver is not already coming into the market to
supply the deficiency in the circulating medium."
Now, for the source of the matter we refer to an affidavit signed
by Frederick A. Luckenbach before the Clerk of the Supreme
Court of the State of Colorado on May 9, 1892. Ernest Seyd,
whose activities are the subject matter of the said affidavit, was
a representative of Baron Rothschild of England. We quote
from this affidavit:
"In 1865, I visited London, England, for the purpose of disposing
60
of some Pennsylvania properties, in which I was interested. I took
with me letters of introduction to many gentlemen in London,
among them one Mr. Ernest Seyd from Robert M. Foust, ex-
treasurer of Philadelphia. I became well acquainted with Mr.
Ernest Seyd, and with his brother, Richard Seyd, who, I under-
stand, is still living. I visited London thereafter every year and
at each visit renewed my acquaintance with Mr. Seyd, and upon
each occasion hecame his guest at one or more times-joining his
family at dinner or other meals.
"In February, 1874, while on one of these visits, and while his
guest for dinner, I, among orher things, alluded to rumors of par-
liamentary corruption, and expressed astonishment that such cor-
ruption should exist. Replying he told me he could relate facts
about the corruption of our own Congress that placed it far
ahead of the English Parliament in that line. So far the conversa-
tion was at the dinner table between us. His brother, Richard,
and others were there also, but this was table talk between Mr.
Ernest Seyd and myself. After dinner ended, he invited me into
another room, where he resumed the conversation abour legisla-
tive corruption. He said: "If you will pledge me your honor as
a gentleman and not divulge what I am about to tell you while
I live. I will convince you that what I said about the corruption
of the American Congress is true." I gave him the promise and
he then continued: 'J went to America in the winter of 1872-3,
authorized to secure, if I could. the passage of a bill demonetizing
silver . . . I took with me 100,000 pounds sterling with instruc-
tions that if it was not sufficient to accomplish the object to draw
for another 100,000 pounds, or as much as was necessary.' He
told me German bankers were also interested in having it accom-
plished. He said: 'I saw the committees of the House and Sen-
ate and paid the money and stayed in America until I knew the
measure was safe'."
Regarding the change of the bill during its enrollment, the fol-
lowing item might be pertinent; it was taken from the issue of
61
Feb. 21, 1873, of The Chicago Tribune and was from an article
by a Washington correspondent: "As for George A. Basset, long
the clerk for the Ways and Means Committee, the stories of his
use of his privileges are as old as my residence in this city. I
heard complaints made in California that he had demanded pay-
ment for services after experiencing unusual hospitality from the
corporations there. Turkish corruption under Pashas and Beys,
or Russian official rottenness, could scarcely be worse."
Sixty years after our money was limited to gold, the polishing
process was completed by taking all gold away from anyone for-
tunate enough to own it. "We have removed gold from circula-
tion" was capably carried out under the leadership of our Secre-
tary of the Treasury, Henry Morgenthau, whose affiliations were
so aptly described by Congressman McFadden on the floor of
Congress, January 24, 1934. Concerning Mr. Morgenthau, Mc-
Fadden said: "He is related by marriage to Herbert Lehman,
Jewish Governor of the State of New York, and is related by
marriage or otherwise to the Seligmans, of the international Jew-
ish firm of J. Be W. Seligman, who were publicly shown before
a Senate committee of investigation to have offered a bribe to a
foreign government; and to the Lewisohns, a firm of Jewish inter-
national bankers; and to the Warburgs, whose operations through
Kuhn, Loeb Be Co., the International Acceptance Bank, and the
Bank of Manhattan Co., and other foreign and domestic institu-
tions under their control, have drained billions of dollars out of
the United States Treasury and the bank deposits belonging to the
United States citizens; and to the Strausses, proprietors of R. H.
Macy Be Co., of New York, which is an outlet for foreign goods
dumped upon this country at the expense of the United States
Government, which is compelled to issue paper money on the
said foreign goods of the Strausses; and rhat Mr. Morgenthau
is likewise related or otherwise connected with various other mem-
bers of the Jewish banking community in New York and London,
Amsterdam, and other foreign financial centers, and that he has
as his assistant, presiding over public funds, Earle Bailie, a mem-
62
ber of the firm of J.8£ W. Seligman, bribe givers aforesaid......
CI. (More from Protocol No. 20): "Money exists to be circulated
and any kind of stagnation of money acts ruinously on the run-
ning of the State machinery, for which it is the lubricant; a stag-
nation of the lubricant may stop the regular working of the
mechanism."
"The substitution of interest-bearing paper for a part of the token
of exchange has produced exactly this stagnation. The conse-
quences of this circumstance are already sufficiently noticeable."
Cl How many realize that credit is the basis of most of our money
under the Federal Reserve Act. Under this act money is to be
secured partly by gold and partly by circulating evidences of debt.
But, not a dollar can be put into circulation by the Government
without the consent and on terms fixed by the Federal Reserve
Board. This in the face of the fact that our Constitution says
that "Congress shall have the power to coin money and regulate
the value thereof." Most people think that the Federal Reserve
Banks are governmental institutions; they are not. They are pri-
vate institutions created by Congressional Act; they are not a
part of the governmental machinery. When it is necessary for
our government to obtain money it must obtain it from those
that control the money, relying solely on the cooperation of these
central banking organs.
When the Federal Reserve Act became law on December 23, 1913,
it was known as the Glass Bill, which was made up of the text
of the Aldrich Bill. The Aldrich Bill was drawn up by Paul M.
Warburg, who testified before the Congressional Hearing looking
into his qualifications for chairman of the Federal Reserve Board
in 1914 that he did not decide to become a naturalized citizen un-
til after the "conviction reached him that our system should be
reformed." According to p. 387, Vol. 4. in the "Proceedings of
the Academy of Political Science," published by the Columbia
University: "It may be stated without fear of contradiction that
in its fundamental features the Federal Reserve Act is the work
of Mr. Warburg more than any other man in the country." Paul
63
Warburg's brother, Max Warburg, was a leading ligure in Ger-
man finance at the time, the same crew that almost wrecked the
German nation. The same banking system is in use in the lead-
ing European nations. There is no such thing as an Independent
Bank, the ramifications of International Banking forcing "Inde-
pendents" out of business or into comformity to illegal practices.
Billions of dollars have been placed at the hands of the New
York Banks with permission of the Federal Reserve Board of
Washington, to be loaned abroad by discounting foreign accept-
ances. It amounts to an international fence for worthless foreign
paper. The Federal Reserve Board can, if it so desires, shift the
entire monetary wealth of our country to the uses of other na-
tions, crippling our industry in a two-fold manner; both by aiding
foreign competition and by taking money out of circulation. As
Congressman McFadden explained, "When a Chinese merchant
sells human hair to a Paris wigmaker and bills him in dollars,
the Federal Reserve Banks can buy his bill as collateral for Fed-
eral Reserve notes. The United States Government thus pays
the Chinese merchant the debt of the wigmaker and gets noth-
ing in return except a shadv title to the Chinese hair."
No wonder the gold was devaluated and the dollar repudiated.
currency issued on a reserve of Scotch whiskey, German beer,
Chinese human hair, yet carrying a promise of redemption in
money belonging to American depositors forced the calling in of
the gold certificates in order for the Federal Reserve Board to save
its face. The Federal Reserve Board and Banks had paper out-
standing to the tune of five billion dollars, said currency redeem-
able in gold, in the people's gold. The Board and Banks profited
in this sum in that they were released from their obligation to
redeem this paper in gold. But, the new law did not require the
Federal Reserve Banks to surrender their gold certificates. They
could, however, and did, surrender these certificates after the
devaluation bill was passed, but before the President's devaluation
proclamation, making a billion dollars profit.
(More from Protocol No. 20): "Economic crises have been
64
produced by us for the goyim by no other means than the with.
drawal of money from circulation."
Through the creation of artificial exchange rates, and the refusal
of credit, money can be taken out of circulation. Your promis-
sory note at the bank can be deposited with a Federal Reserve
Bank and used as security for money. When the amount of cir-
culating money is reduced, what is left is more valuable in goods.
The smaller the ratio of money to goods, the more valuable the
money in goods. Take money out of circulation and in dollars
and cents goods are worth very little. In fact, the dollars and
cents values of inventories, equipment and real estate can be
shrunk to such an extent that no profit can be shown, then a
business will be bankrupt, assets will be frozen, and banks will
be failures. The following figures, given by the Federal Reserve
Board on November 9, 1931, should be read while thinking over
excerpts from the Protocol last quoted above. What a perfect ful-
fi1lment!
"You are advised that the aggregate amount of 15-day promis-
sory notes of member banks during each of the past three calendar
years has been as follows:
1928 $60,598,690,000
1929 58,046,697,000
1930 . . . . .. 13,022,782,000
One of the tasks set before the Communist Party is given in a
Handbook, edited by P. Malevsky-Malevitch. It is "Transfer
to the State all gold reserves, valuables, securities, deposits, etc.;
the centralization of all banking operations and the subordination
of all the nationalized banks to a central State bank, etc."
No imagination is necessary in reading the foregoing to cause
one to recall Morgenthau's "kitty" bill by which he was given
two billion dollars as a gold "stabilization" fund. We have often
wondered how much of this $2,000,000,000 is now reposing in the
coffers of the Jewish Bank for International Settlements.
It is obvious that the sack of the United States Treasury, the
collapse of American Industry, the taking of America off the gold
65
standard, the repudiation of its fiscal contracts by the Federal Re-
serve, the agitation for the cancellation of the war debts-are
naught but carefully laid maneuvers for so emasculating and un-
dermining Christian America that she can never again offer effec-
tive resistance to Europe, or to Jerusalem, when the latter City
has been made the Capital of a completely Judaized world.
'JVith the foregoing as a brief background you will grasp to some
extent, the scope of the rehabilitation which must be accomplished
in America.
Oscar Strauss was coming across the Staten Island ferry to Man-
hattan one morning, some months before his death, when he was
joined by a Gentile neighbor who noted the distress on the old
financier's face. The Gentile interrogated Mr. Strauss as to
what might be depressing him.
"It is my people," returned the Jew, and he wagged his head
in unutterable sadness. "I'm telling you, my friend. that if my
people do not mend their ways and be good citizens in fact, pretty
soon the time is coming when America is going to see pogroms
beside which the pogroms of Europe have been nothing!"
Nothing is the matter with America but the aliens who have
been admitted to her hospitality, and who have shamelessly abused
Christian sportsmanship and tolerance to sack her commerce and
debauch her institutions.
EDUCATION
(From a Protocol of 1896): "But above all let us monopolize
education. By this means we spread ideas that are useful to us,
and shape the children's brains as suits us."
(From Protocol No.2): "Think carefully of the success we have
arranged for Darwinism, Marxism, Nietsche-ism."
(From Protocol No.9): "We have got our hands into the ad-
ministration of the law, into the conduct of elections, into the
press, into the liberty of the person, but principally into educa-
tion and training as being the corner-stone of a free existence."
66
"We have fooled, bemused and corrupted the youth of the goyim
by rearing them in principles and theories which are known to us
to be false although it is by us that they have been inculcated."
A reference should be made here to the study of psychology and
the ever-growing tendency to interpret its teachings by the
Freudian Theory. The Freudian theory reduces everything, good
or evil, to a crude sex basis. There is nothing new under the sun.
On page 92 of Weishaupt's book on the IIIuminati(1776),
translated from the German, we read: "The incentive to all hu-
man actions are' immediate sensual pleasures . . . sensual pleasures
are accordingly the highest and ultimate aim of man."
Marxism (Socialism) has been taught so openly that it is an
approved college course. It has been injected so insidiously, how-
ever, that if you were to ask a hundred graduates what socialism
is, you would get a hundred different answers.
There has been nothing so destructive to Christianity as Darwin-
ism; it destroys belief in Christian ethics, so well personified in the
Golden Rule, "Do unto others as you would have them do unto
you." Many great scientists that disclaim the theory of evolution
receive little mention and no credence for their reasoning.
(From Protocol No. 19): "In order to destroy the prestige of
heroism for political crime we shall send it for trial in the cate-
gory of thieving, murder, and every kind of abominable and filthy
crime. Public opinion will then confuse in its conception this
category of crime with the disgrace attaching to every other and
will brand it with the same contempt.
"We have done our best, and I hope we have succeeded, to obtain
that the goyim should not arrive at this means of contending with
sedition. It was for this reason that through the Press and in
speeches, indirectly-in cleverly compiled schoolbooks on history.
we have advertised the martyrdom alleged to have been accepted
by sedition-mongers for the idea of the commonwealth. This
advertisement has increased the contingent of liberals and has
brought thousands of goyim into the ranks of our livestock cattle."
fl Witness the refusal of teachers in New York to give an oath
67
to uphold the Constitution, and the fight that was made to keep
them from being forced to do so. Witness the number of grad-
uates that tolerate with somewhat of disgust the reference to the
saviours of our country as patriots; revolutionaries, however, be-
ing set upon a pedestal.
In a circular, sent out as an appeal for funds from members
of the American Civil Liberties Union, dated in January, 1932,
the following are among the many reasons for need of money:
"Carrying up in the California courts the refusal of citizenship
to an alien Socialist.••• Toward the appeal in Philadelphia of
a conviction for sedition..•. In what we hope are the last weeks
of the campaign for the freedom of Mooney, public opinion must
be kept hot and pressure kept upon California officials. The
National Mooney-Billings Committee, organized by us, is in the
hole $569 on that job."
Among the directorate and membership of this organization
we pick a few names at random: Robert Morse Lovett, John
Haynes Holmes, John Dewey, Paul Douglas, Glen Frank, Felix
Frankfurter, Sherwood Eddy, Francis J. McConnell, Samuel Mc-
Crea Cavert, etc. University professors, presidents, and gradua-
tion exercise speakers. Whether pink or red, it all comes from
the same source. We pay for loyalty, patriotism, culture, and re-
spect for the home; we get disloyalty, internationalism, gutter
manners, and free love or companionate marriage. Should tax-
supported and tax-exempt institutions be allowed to teach the de-
struction of the government that makes them possible?
"The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptations,
and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be pun-
ished: but chiefly them that walk after the flesh in the lust of un-
cleanness, and despise government." (II Peter, Chap. 2, verses
9 and ]0.)
68
INDUSTRY
(From Protocol No.3): "We shall create by all the secret
subterranean methods open to us and with the aid of gold, which
is all in our hands, a universal economic crisis whereby we shall
throw upon the streets whole mobs of workers simultaneously in
all the countries of Europe."
There is no record in the written history of the world which has
so completely portrayed a world economic crisis as a description
of what is taking place today. According to estimates from
authoritative sources in the Congress, Communist and sit-down
strikes during this Administration have cost industry in the neigh-
borhood of six billion dollars! The loss has not only included
money and equipment but the lives of hundreds of law-enforce-
ment officers, citizens, and laborers. It has been necessary to call
out the military forces of the states more frequently than during
the previous 15 years. And this, during the worst depression our
country has ever known.
For the benefit of the few who believe one of the favorite themes
of the propagandists, and that is, that strikes in general are an
indication of an upturn in business, we quote the following from
The Militant, a communist paper issued June 2, 1934:
"That the League membership played an active part in the Min-
neapolis strike is shown not only by the fact that our comrades
were in leading positions in the strike committee; it is also shown
in the part played on the picket line where every man and woman
available from our ranks were placed. In the work of organizing
for the strike our comrades took the leading part. This alone
was the work of months. At the headquarters, both before and
during the strike, our members found their places-in the kitchen,
in the office, in the picket line, at various tasks too numerous to
mention."
It was stated by Gregori T. Giko, Soviet Finance Minister, in a
book recently published in the United States by him: "The five-
e 69
year plan is an important part in the offensive of the proletariat
of the world against capitalism; it is a plan tending to undermine
capitalistic stabilization; it is a great plan of world revolution."
The people of our country will never know the terrible price that
is being paid by the Russian workers in order to make possible the
successful culmination of this communist economic offensive.
Laboring men in Russia are slaves, denied full rations and proper
clothing in order that these commodities can be dumped on our
shores in competition with American industry. Their strategy is
based upon the knowledge that the greater the number of unem-
ployed in America the more fertile the field for their propaganda.
With other countries being added to the Soviet system from time
to time, it means that conditions will get steadily worse until the
foe is uncovered and brought out into the open. We feel that a
quotation from Protocol No. 23 is proper at this time. Read it:
"Unemployment is a most perilous thing for a government. For
us its part will have been played out the moment authority is
transferred into our hands."
(From Protocol No.5): "We shall create an intensified centrali-
zation of government in order to grip in our hands all the forces
of the community. We shall regulate mechanically all the actions
of the political life of our subjects by new laws."
Our first taste of this choice morsel of philosophy just quoted was
during the World War. Few know that we were under a virtual
dictatorship during those years, our destiny being guided by none
other than Bernard M. Baruch. The Council of National De-
fense was made up of the six cabinet secretaries. The policies of
this council were decided by an advisory commission of seven men,
three of whom were Jews, including Baruch. Beneath this com-
mission was the War Industries Board. This War Industries
Board later became the main factor in war-time control and Baruch
was the "Board." In testifying before a joint congressional com-
mittee following the war, in answering a question relative to his
authority, Baruch stated, "That final determination, as the Presi-
70
dent said, rested with me; the determination of whether the Army
or Navy should have it (supplies) rested with me; the deter-
mination of whether the Railroad Administration could have it,
or whether General AlIenby should have locomotives, or whether
they should be used in Russia, or used in France." And later, "I
probably had more power than perhaps any other man in the
war; doubtless that is true." A phrase slightly more descriptive
of Baruch's "power" can be given in his own words: "No building
costing more than could be erected in the United States
without the approval of the War Industries Board. Nobody
could get a barrel of cement without its approval. You could not
get a piece of zinc for your kitchen table without the approval of
the War Industries Board."
With this sort of factual background, it was formerly easy for
the equilibrium of the Enlightened to be seriously upset by the
setting up of the NRA under Gen. Johnson. At the risk of be-
ing a bit archaic, we might recall the cue in an Associated
Press item bearing the date of October 14, 1934, which reads:
"For several years Johnson was associated with Bernard M.
Baruch, New York financier, at a salary reported to be $100,-
000 a year." The NRA was similar to the PEP Scheme in Eng-
land-Political Economic Planning-in fact, it is the same idea
adapted to our conditions. The group behind the Political Ec-
onomic Planning has been closely associated with the Foreign
Policy Association of New York. The Foreign Policy Associa-
tion is a Warburg-Frankfurter project, that all too obviously
attempts to guide American opinion in foreign policy as the
Kahal Jews want it guided on this side of the Atlantic. The
father of PEP in England was the Jew Israel Moses SiefF. In
1933 he was urging his associates to "go slowly for a while till
we see how our Plan works in the United States." Our
plan! Don't overlook that "our!"
On Page 47 of The American Hebrew and Jewish Tribune,
71
December 1, 1933, we read, "Prof. Felix Frankfurter of Harvard
is among the President's closest advisers. He is held responsible
for drafting the N. R. A." The N. R. A. was organized and
financed by means of the "Twentieth Century Fund" of which
the late Edward A. Filene was the president, before the bill was
actually passed by Congress.
The next scene takes us to a conference between the President
and "leading American industrial and cabinet officials, including
Bernard M. Baruch," for the purpose of drafting legislation to
"take the profits out of war." What a travesty! Four days later
on December 16, 1934, the citizenry was informed by the press
that "the group designated by the president to write an anti-war
profit measure is headed by Bernard Baruch, New York financier."
In a statement to the press on June 22, 1934, Baruch stated, "I
am just what I said I was-a speculator."
The foregoing never was a surprise to the enlightened on the
Jewish Question, because both Baruch and Rabbi Wise have
ever advocated government control of all industries during war-
time-"conscription of industry" it is called. Jewish control dur-
ing time of war is not going to be left to chance, inasmuch as by
thus controlling industry, the Jew declares which nations shall win
and which lose. "Taking profits out of war" is merely the bait
to get the Bill passed by an unsuspecting Congress.
Communism is the laboring man's worst foe. His status is changed
from that of a worker for wages to that of a slave, because he
loses the right to vote, own property, exercise freedom of speech,
and to worship God.
When President Roosevelt left for his vacation the first of July,
1934, his last official act was to pick Donald Richberg to fill the
President's chair during his absence. Richberg's authority rested
on three new positions: First, director of the Industrial Emergen-
cy Committee; second, executive director, National Emergency
Council; and third, executive secretary of the Executive Council.
According to an item in the Christian Science Monitor for July 3,
1934, "The acts combine in Mr. Richberg a greater concentration
72
of power and authority than have been in the hands of any single
individual other than the President not only under the Roosevelt
Administration, but in recent American History."
GOVERNMENTS
Because they speak for themselves the following excerpts are
quoted from the Protocols without explanation. Published thirty
years ago, their fulfillment today can be perceived by a child.
(From Potocol No.1); "Political freedom is an idea, but not a
fact. This idea one must know how to apply whenever it appears
necessary with this bait of an idea to attract the masses of the
people to one's party for the purpose of crushing another who
is in authority. This task is rendered easier if the opponent has
himself been infected with the idea of freedom, so-called liberal-
ism, and, for the sake of an idea, is willing to yield some of his
power. It is precisely here that the triumph of our theory ap-
pears; the slackened reins of government are immediately, by the
law of life, caught up and gathered together by a new hand,
because the blind might of the nation cannot for one single day
exist without guidance, and the new authority merely fits into the
place of the old already weakened by liberalism."
(From Protocol No. 10): "In order that our scheme may produce
this result we shall arrange elections in favor of such presidents
as have in their past some dark, undiscovered stain, some 'Panama'
or other-then they will be trustworthy agents for the accomplish-
ment of our plans out of fear of revelation and from the natural
desire of everyone who has attained power, namely, the retention
of the privileges, advantages and honor connected with the office
of president. The chamber of deputies (congress) will provide
'Cover for, will protect, will elect presidents, but we shall take from
it the right to propose new, or make changes in existing laws, for
this right will be given by us to the responsible president, a puppet
in our hands."
(From Protocol No. 10): "The president will, at our discretion,
73
interpret the sense of such of the existing laws as admit of various
interpretations; he will further annul them when we indicate to
him the necessity to do so, besides this, he will have the right to
propose temporary laws, and even new departures in the govern-
ment constitutional working, the pretext both for one and the other
being the requirements for the supreme welfare of the state."
(More from Protocol No. 10): "By such measures we shall obtain
the power of destroying little by little, step by step, all that at
the outset when we enter upon our rights, we are compelled to
introduce into the constitution of states to prepare for the transi-
tion to an imperceptible abolition of every kind of constitution,
and then the time has come to turn every form of government
into our despotism."
All the above has come to pass and with it a program to make
everyone dependent on the government. To begin with, through
the creation of a depression by deliberate planning, one out of
every five is dependent on the government for existence. If the
Townsend Pension Plan had been adopted it would have increased
this percentage. If the Public Utilities are taken over, insurance
assets will be wiped out, destroying the savings of millions. Out-
side of these indirect savings, the Public Utilities represent direct
investments of hundreds of thousands of our citizens.
While many more citizens will be driven to take shelter and seek
employment from the government, a deeper strategy is in the
background, it is the strategy of so overburdening a nation with
debt that it can only escape by consenting to a complete change
in the form of government. Whether it is called socialism or
communism, the result is the same. We wish you to read from
a bulletin dated March, 1934, and entitled, An Appeal to the
Membership of the Socialist Party. It was given out by the
"Revolutionary Policy Committee" of the Socialist Party. It
74
reads: "In organic connection with the struggle for the capture
of state power the Socialist Party vigorously supports so-called
reforms, such as the thirty-hour week, unemployment insurance,
abolition of child labor, etc., not as steps in a gradual attainment
of Socialism within the framework of the capitalist system-but
for the threefold purpose: 1, of drawing in hitherto uninterested
workers; 2, for the purpose of imposing upon capitalism economic
burdens greater than it can bear; and 3, of giving labor a sense
of strength through these partial victories. Thus, the revolutionary
crisis is hastened and at the same time workers are being pre-
pared for it."
The "brain trust" surely deserves some consideration since its
actions are in accord with the Protocols. In discussing its origin,
we will quote from an article by Mr. Pe Stal, in a leading Jewish
publications, the Jewish Examiner:
"Attention was first drawn to Roosevelt's close association with
Jews long before he became President. During Mr. Roosevelt's
:first gubernatorial campaign in New York in 1923, he became
acquainted with Samuel 1. Rosenman, then a member of the State
Bill Drafting Commission. . . . Mr. Roosevelt appointed Mr.
Rosenman his personal counsel. It was in the course of these reia-
.tionships that Mr. Roosevelt came to appreciate Rosenman's judg-
ment, and he soon charged him with a multiplicity of con:fidential
and responsible tasks. When Roosevelt elevated Rosenman to the
Supreme Court he admitted he was cutting off his right arm!
That this was not idle flattery was evidenced by the fact that
Judge Rosenman owns a photograph of Asst. Secretary of State
Raymond Maley which is inscribed: 'To Sam Rosenman, founder
and head of the Brain-Trust.' The inscription aptly summarizes
Rosenman's service to Roosevelt because the now-famous 'Brain
Trust' came into being during Roosevelt's years as governor. Even
75
now, Judge Rosenman is frequently called to Washington to con-
sult with the President." See Brain-Trust list on pages 2 and 3.
PROPAGANDA
(From Protocol No.2): "In the hands of the States of today
there is a great force that creates the movement of thought in
the people, and that is the Press. The part played by the Press
is to keep pointing out requirements of the people, to express
and to create discontent."
(From Protocol No.7): "We must compel the governments of
the goyim to take action In the direction favored by our widely-
conceived plan, already approaching the desired consummation,
by what we shall represent as public opinion, secretly prompted
by us through the means of that so-called 'Great Power,' the Press,
which, with a few exceptions that may be disregarded, is already
entirely in our hands."
Over 85 percent of the newspapers are owned by Jewish interests,
and the balance are dominated by the whip of advertising. The
art of propaganda becomesa science in suppressing some facts and
giving undue significance to others; thus the perspective of the
great mass of people can be governed, creating publi( opinion.
Do you form your own conclusions regarding national events
and policies or do you follow some Washington correspondent?
The National Radio chains are as completely under Jewish con-
trol as is the press.
The influence of the movies extends to every phase of human
conduct. Consider the power in motion pictures for moulding
public opinion. With the audience off guard, relaxed for enter-
tainment, it is a simple matter to impregnate their minds with
destructive ideas, carefully inserted in an otherwise harmless story.
More often than not, a movie audience will applaud the very
theories advanced in a picture-play, that would destroy in their
practical application, the very audience itself. What a travesty,
that our citizens tlctutllly pay the subversionists to blind tlnd de-
ceive them!
76
(From Protocol No.5): "Moreover, the art of directing masses
and individuals by means of cleverly manipulated theory and
verbiage, by regulations of life in common and all sorts of other
quirks, in all of which the goyim understand nothing, belongs
likewise to the specialists of our administrative brain."
"In order to put public opinion into our hands we must bring it
into a state of bewilderment by giving expression from all sides
to so many contradictory opinions and for such length of time
as will suffice to make the goyim lose their heads in the labyrinth
and come to see that the best thing is to have no opinion of any
kind in matters political, which it is not given to the public to
understand because they are understood only by him who guides
the public. This is the first secret."
Academic Freedom! The right to propagate revolutionary and
unpatriotic doctrines by degrees, gradually leading up to active
opposition to government!
College authorities claim that the students should hear both sides
of the question, but the forums are so stage-managed that the
radical side predominates.
There are so many organizations being formed with patriotic-
sounding names that the uninformed will find themselves in a
labyrinth of ideas, all contradictory. The thing to watch is the
personnel and the opposition. when classifying an organization.
There is no way of knowing the enormous amount of funds
being spent in this country on propaganda. There was. according
to Major General Amos A. Fries, speaking before the Sons of
the American Revolution, $46,000,000 spent in the United States
in 1930 for Revolutionary propaganda and work. This repre-
sents the co-ordinated disbursement from 122 foundations. Aside
from the pink propaganda, violent red bolshevism has been printed
in 58 different languages.
These propagandists are marvelous psychologists. For a period of
time (while getting the confidence of their hearers) their speeches
77
and writings are everything that one can ask for. Gradually how-
ever, they introduce subtle criticism of our American Institutions
and picture Communism as a more "humanitarian" substitute.
Ultimately they betray themselves by attacking patriotism, nation"
alism, tradition, and our present form of government. The old
battlecry of the Marxists, Liberty, Freedom, and Equality! is
changed to something else. The worn-out phrase, Exploitation of
the Masses, coined by Marx, still has enough selling appeal to be
retained.
CONCLUSION
What, then, are we to expect, what is coming, and what can
we do about it?
America's Gentiles seem to hold the weird idea that when con-
ditions are finally set for revolution in this country, the Red
Yiddishers propose to be sporting enough to announce it to the
citizens, all and sundry. A dispassionate observer might conclude,
from hearing certain elements of our population talk about it,
that on some Monday night the newspapers are all going to
carry page advertisements, and the radio reporters are going to
be handed carefully-prepared statements, to the effect that on the
ensuing Friday morning at nine o'clock the dynamite bombs are
to start exploding, the government buildings to be talcen over,
and after ten o'clock of the same forenoon the country will
henceforth be known as the United States of Soviet America.
The accomplishment will be more subtly arrived at.
"The economic structure," they will announce, "has broken down
completely. The banks have been forced to close. Commerce
is at a standstill. With the process of pump priming twice a
failure, the President discounted and cast out, Congress an
aggregation of witless and terrified nincompoops, and a hundred
million people approaching actual starvation, someone strong
enough to control the situation must take hold."
So the crash of the nation will be made to appear a "natural." ...
78
CI. The accomplishment to be embraced must be arrived at by
trlckery, smoke-screen, and fraud, so that-to the bulk of our
people-the accession of the Dictator may appear as a laudatory
gesture and but the employment of an extremist measure in a
Desperate Situation.
For four to six years the most artful preparations have been going
forward for this eventual consummation. Now that the Crisis
is almost upon us, the more enlightened amongst our populace
should discern the denouement for precisely what it is.
Press and Radio will not be used to announce the arrival or
progress of actual overthrow of Government, but to suppress and
discount it.
"Let our citizens have no fear," will be the opening burden of
such intelligence-provided any intelligence is given out at all.
"There is truly no revolution. There is only sectional disorder
due to economic crisis. Bad as it may appear, the authorities
have the situation well in hand."
That last gesture in Red bamboozlement-"The authorities have
the situation well in hand"-emphatically will be employed right
up to the moment of actual transfer from constitutional gov-
ernment to open sovietism.
Of course the situation will not be under control. And the
"authorities" affecting to have it so, will secretly be the big-shot
stooges for the Yiddish revolutionaries themselves.
"Bring In revolution but call it something else!" is the tocsin of
the Usurpers from the ghettos of Europe.
The policy of press and radio is one of hush-hush.
And doubtless right up to the final disappearance of civil juris-
diction over the nation's affairs, the papers and radio will play
the same anesthetizing tune.
It is by no means any play-revolution that the Yiddisher Gang
behind Roosevelt has been artfully fostering throughout the
months of New-Dealism.
It is said thllt a crisis develops or brings forth the necessary
79
Leader. It is more accurate to say that a crisis develops or
creates the necessary Following for such a Leader. In most
instances the Leader, who is the rallying point for action in a
crisis, has long been aware of the whole strarnash and has been
biding his time until circumstances proves to the masses the
truth of his warnings.
No one should be so asinine as to think that the Jewish-Bolshevik
gang are going to relinquish their gains-to-date without a struggle.
No one should be so childish as to think that an ordinary Party-
switching election will right the Ship of State, nor get the idea
that a crisis can be avoided, a collapse staved olf.
There is no need to despair at the suggestion that a revolutionary
condition cannot be prevented. Get this: even if it could be
circumvented our people and our Nation would fall right back
into the same old indolent ways of thinking and living, tolerating
the same subversive elements, allowing the overseas gang to keep
them groaning under humiliating serfdom.
No, it is not now a matter of running around in circles to prevent
the culmination of a healing fever that will purge the Nation of
accumulated poisons but instead, a situation demanding that no
time be lost in getting prepared to intelligently understand and
deal with the fever crisis when it comes. By making the proper
preparations, the time of sulfering can be shortened. But to elfect
the necessary purge, the disruption must come, the crisis must be
met; for such disruption will disclose to the now blind millions,
who the authors of the whole skullduggery are.
It should now be clear that you can at least do this-get yoursel]
informed, and inform others, so that the not-so-far-off day of
crisis will find a vast sprinkling of enlightened citizens who be-
cause of such enlightenment will be able to view conditions with
poise instead of terror, and be capable of passing on a measure of
such poise to those around them whose ears will suddenly become
attentive: in other words be Leaders in their own right wherever
circumstances find them.
80
([ The natural reaction after reading thia boos-
let, is Eor the reader to ask: "Granted that what
I've just read is true, what am I supposed to do
about iH"
tI There is plenty that the reader can do about it.
For one thing, he can stop this pernicious hush-
hush policy everywhere prevalent among Ameri..
cans-the effect of a deliberate propaganda-and
make a grim business of acquainting his fellow
citizens with some of these facts, and then they
in turn should see that such literature has as uni-
versal a sale as can be contrived.
tI The issues propounded in this booklet can be
settled swiftly enough when a preponderant ele-
ment amongst the populace becomes acquainted
with the FACTSI
tI Overwhelming publicity for the information
contained herein, will deal an inescapable body
blow to the bloc now making an economic sham-
bles of America.
tI Do your partI Send for as many copies of
this booklet as you can afford and pass them
along to your friends and neighbors.
fI These booklets, published and distributed by
the tens of thousands, are smashing the kept-
press censorship on these matters.
tI Join the Army of Patriots that is making
them possibleI
BY DISTRIBUTING COPIES OF THIS BOOK
PRICE:
Single Copies, by mail prepaid 2S Cents
SIX COPIES FOR ONE DOLLAR
50 COPIES $7.50
100 COPIES $12.50
Express Collect
For Sale by
The Pelley Publishers
Box 2630
ASHEVILLE • NORTH CAROLINA
