{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__pelley___nations-in-law.pdf","mytitle":"Nations-in-law","mylang":"de"}
NAT I 0 NS - IN -'LAW
An Unconventional Analysis of Civics
By WILLIAM DUDLEY~,~LLEY; I
Copyright
\i\11LLIAM DUDLEY PELLEY
1938
.~AJr
...~ '\: Lcr~ cfJ~
"
w-cd: fl~
. ~64..C~ A...r"-"dl->,
(
AUTHOR'S OVERTURE
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~~AUTHOR'S OVERTURE~~
S IT not an eccentric circum-
stance that the people calling
themselves Americans-that is,
political residents of the United
States of America-live under
more laws and yet are more
lawless, and suffer from more
civic government and yet have
less Government, than any oth- .
er people on the face of the earth? Is it not equally
eccentric that these same Americans should do more
worldly bragging about their democratic forms and po-
litical liberty than almost any other people, while at the
same time the average man in the United States is prob-
ably the greatest civic ignoramus to be found in any
civilized country on the planet? If these inquiries
sound pragmatic, it is because thirty years as a news-
paper publisher, novelist, and journalist, have brought
the evidence to my attention.
Law, Government, and Politics, are certainly not lack-
ing as factors in the American's daily affairs. At the
same time, intelligent observation will disclose that no
three subjects in his day-to-day exploits serve to interest
him less~~
Law is something to be outwitted as respectably as pos-
sible~~
Government is a mysterious Moloch with headquarters
at Washington, D. C., which exists to impose taxes, pro-
duce the phenomena of the Congress and the Supreme
Court, and solve all those economic quandaries which
the citizens concede they cannot solve themselves.
Politics is the spoils system by which men with aspira-
tions become the controlling big-wigs in the governing
machinery ~ ~
All of it is a sort of necessary evil incident to the en-
joyment of a high but complicated standard of living-
something to be tolerated like the chances of illness or ·
traffic accident day upon day-while the average citi-
zen goes about his business of wresting a living from
society with such success or failure as his talents dictate.
fJf Society has to sense the influence of Law, Govern-
ment, and Politics, year in and year out-so reasons the
average man-that the other fellow may be kept within
some measure of control. Always it is the other fellow
who must be kept within some measure of control. So
the Senator, the Congressman, the Judge, the Police-
man, are empowered to yield authority and -enforce
penalties for lawlessness. The common citizen, how-
ever, takes it largely in the abstract.
He takes his Law, Government, and Politics, vicariously
-as he has been trained to take his religion-and en-
2
ters into the control of his institutions only by reading
the newspaper headlines as to what some reporter or
editor thinks about this or that. Once every year, or
two years, or four years, he gets the day off to go to
the polls and register his choice of officials out of bedev-
iling lists of candidates. With such slight personal an~
noyance out of the way, he docilely conducts himself
as the prevalent oligarchy directs.
The Senator ignores him-unless he be a great indus-
trialist with funds to be utilized in future campaigns-
the Congressman votes his nation into an economic
morass, the Judge looks down from his bench upon him
as a culprit, the corner policeman lays a heavy hand
upon his shoulder and "bawls him out" for any little
thing from unsanitary expectoration to helping rob a
filling station to get the funds to eat.
That all of these are the public servants and by no
means the public overlords, is entirely forgotten in the
American psychology.
Five hundred and thirty-one representatives from as
many legislative districts about the nation, have each
a mentality not much raised above dog-catcher. Hav-
ing failed uniformly to conduct their personal affairs
successfully, they consider themselves-mystically
enough-competent to conduct the affairs of the nation.
Each gets himself elected through the machinations of
local political strategists. Presently the whole assem-
blage of them gathers on Capitol Hill. On Capitol Hill,
with a chairman in the rostrum, they begin making
3
laws. And by some weird lapse of the common citi-
zen's reasoning, he accepts that if five hundred and
thirty-one dog-catchers come together under a chair-
man or two, they forthwith and thereby acquire the wis-
dom of as many Solomons, and what they decree shall
show Olympian poise.
In the face of all of it, if you come along and offer the
typical American a book which bids to straighten him
out on Law, Government, and Politics-or make him
take intelligent note of the fallaciousness of all of it-
he will shrug his shoulders, look bored, treat it like a
statistical report of the Federal Reserve and try to get
away from you as from an agent for life insurance.
Truth to tell, Law, Government and Politics-as sub-
jects-are beyond him.
He affects to comprehend them, but he doesn't.
Just as Religion is not something to be analyzed but to
be believed, so Civics is something to be accredited but
not interpreted.
Most of it rests upon the fact that the more the State
grows complicated, the higher and more remote are of-
ficials moved away from human individuals doing very
human things. The higher and more remote that of-
ficials are moved away, the less chance the common cit-
izen sees for himself to participate in Law, Government
and Politics as a personal activity. So he has to content
himself with the insouciant role of spectator.
People are uniformly interested in a worldly activity in
the precise ratio that it is possible for them to play roles
4
•
in that worldly activity themselves ~ ~ ~ ~
Law, Government, and Politics, are abstract to the aver-
age American because the role of participant is general-
ly denied him.
Casting a vote for a list of candidates once a year, or
once in two or four years, is by no means being a vital
participant-but merely being the agency or expedient
by which Law, Government and Politics are sustained.
~fJ~~E10 it serves my caprice to discuss Law, Gov-
ernment and Politics with the typical
American, so that he begins to see what a
consequential hoax is being put over on
him year after year by a civic system that
makes arrogant overlords of the grossest public servants,
and converts the common man into the prey of the po-
litically voracious instead of presenting him as the en-
lightened genesis of the whole republic system.
There is nothing particularly "dry as dust" about Law,
Government, and Politics, excepting as it may prove
to the pecuniary enhancement of groups, classes, cliques
or individuals to keep them so, that the political racket
may prosper without hindrance or checkmate.
"There are no dull subjects," once declared George Hor-
ace Lorimer, erstwhile editor of The Saturday Evening
Post, "there are only dull writers."
Of course, by presenting the text from this angle, I by
no means imply outstanding literary brilliance in my
own right. Rather I say, that over a period of forty
5
years I have had more than ordinary chance to observe
my fellowman in his eccentric reactions to all civic pro-
cedures. I have trafficked with him in Prosperity and
sought to relieve him in Depression. I have, with no
small success, awakened him as a nation to the evils of
alien usurpation, founded a political party in my own
right, and proposed a minute and complete system of
altered Economics whose stipulations are acknowledged
as meritorious enough for practice, by tens-and even
hundreds-of thousands of persons brought to ruin by
old customs.
I would, therefore, bring to the attention of the average
citizen badly bedeviled by these times, my conclusions
and convictions as to just what Law, Government, and
Politics are, in each instance. I would make these sub-
jects human, understandable, simple, and, I hope, reas-
onably interesting.
I would help the common citizen to grasp that a multi-
tude of laws do not make Law, that finesse in Govern-
ment is the maximum lack of it, and that Politics in its
essence is not at all the practice of the civic spoils sys..
tern, but the agenda of policies by which business gets
done that in the ordiWtry day is nobody's business in
that it is everybody's.
I would bring home to the man in the street, 1n other
words, the realization that most of his civic and eco-
nomic troubles come upon him because he permits willy-
nilly his birthright of intelligent direction of the public
business, to be cunningly denied him.
6
So long as Law, Government and Politics can be p~e­
sented to the common citizen in a manner that arouses
his maximum distate-provided it succeeds in arous-
ing his interest at all-the Predatory Clique can 1
go its
way unimpeded, and with major success in looting and
browbeating the whole social body.
I say none of us has to stand for this sort of thing one
day longer than it takes for us to comprehend what Law,
Government, and Politics, truly are-and react accord-
ingly in terms of dictators instead of in roles of those
who serve dictation.
The only thing mysterious about Law, Government, and
Politics, is the mystery which the spoilsmen themselves
wrap around their persons or their offices-filching
powers and prerogatives that by no means belong to
them~~
Take my book, therefore, as an unconventional analysis
of the phenomenon of Order in all human society.
Follow through with me while I comment here and
there on all those elements that make for social control
and yet too often result in creation of a governing caste
that demands its adulation from the fact of its office in~
stead of its merit.
An understanding of these matters is being forced upon
most of us, whether we would pay attention to them
instinctively or not.
Nations-in-Law is my offering to my bedeviled fellow
American in these years of a great penury, putting most
of our purblind acceptances beneath the philosophical
7
microscope and suggesting wherein our mass judgments
may have erred.
So let us to the business!
Introductions should be brief.
s·
THE FIRST DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~~ THE FIRST DISCUSSION ~~
HE WORLD, I declare, has one
...l~!..,..Um.lmli..a.&.t-J titanic need. It needs a com-
mon recognition of world-wide
social maladies that cause men
and women to suffer all out of
proportion to what may be re-
~"r.11::11~...-=1 quired for their normal spiritual
progression ~ ~
~ Our premise must be, that as
soon as a preponderant number of reasoning human
beings discern what is wrong with existing world cul-
ture, the very annoyance of their sufferings will compel
them to embrace such effective and permanent remedies
as enlightened logic may propose.
This we must concede as foundation for what follows
or perish in our deficiencies of practical prescription.
There are lions in our pathways!
Human intercourse in this world of ours has of late
become so complicated that a larger mental and tem-
peramental vision than humankind has ever exercised
is not only necessary but vigorously imperative. We
are coming to a snarl in world affairs !Jlaking man to
11
realize that his species faces the same problem every-
where: How shall he go about daily life in maximum
comfort and security of person, yet give full and dex-
terous expression to the peculiar traits and attributes
with which Nature has endowed that branch or division
of the species which each mortal represents.
This problem presents increasing confusions as gener-
ation succeeds generation and inter-racial society grows
more and more complex.
Something must be done to make us not only world-
conscious geographically but intelligent inter-racially
in our dealings by continents, that each and every peo-
ple may live out its destiny and contribute to world
organization that which is its essence: Some particular
exhibit of divine benefaction.
Until we establish this as: a premise for our argument
we shall obviously get nowhere. According as we. do
establish it, we shall lay a pavement for the feet of un-
born progeny traversing quagmires of superstitious
ignorance and climbing life's heights to Utopian at-
tainments ~ ~
There are those among us, although their numbers are
decreasing, who think of Utopia as a grandiose system
conceived by idealists seeking to rationalize by phil-
osophy what they cannot get by strategy. They look
about them and behold the human race in all of its
squalor, misery, and intellectual bedlam-to say noth-
ing of theological and ethical bigo\f:ry-and contend
that Utopia cannot be for this planet. If Utopia were
12
practically possible, they declare, in some form or other
we should long ago have found it.
Taken by and large, such people are provincial. By
provincial, I mean not circumscribed as to geography
but as to spiritual discernments of what Life is all about.
They are really cowards of a sort who shrink from
challenging the seemingly Impossible, not realizing that
the Impossible for one age has become Commonplace
the next~~
A certain Utopian structure is no more possible of at-
tainment than the complete termination of wickedness
is possible by merely passing legislation. I mean the
Utopia whereunder all men recognize to the fullest the
rights of other men, and set up a State wherein there
is no guile either public or private. Human nature
would have to be remade in a twelve-month in order to
bring in that kind of Utopia, and only the fool could
expect it to be realized. But there is another sort of
Utopia that is no more impossible of attainment-at
least in the political sense-than the union of the forty-
eight States has proven impossible under the Federal
Constitution ~ ~
We are going to probe the fecundities in this inter-
racial Utopia in this argument. First, however, let us
reach an agreement as to what Utopia is .
I would define Utopia as that state or condition of a
people wherein each has opportunity to contribute to
universal culture that which it was meant to represent
in earth's educative structure, with annoyance to others
13
minimized, and lacking the duress-factors of armament
or economic restriction to subvert orderly growth or
spiritual ramifications of advancing world 'conscious-
ness ~ :41
That is the only extent to which we need concern our-
selves with Utopia in this unconventional analysis of
a wholesomer world society.
It goes without saying, however, that in expounding
such a definition it is well-nigh impossible to engage
the interest of the man in the street. Much as all of
of us would like to elevate·mass thinking and help the
man in the street to take a more understanding view
of ,the benefits possible to world society-that he may
profit as an individual-it is hardly commonsense to
inflict trigonometry on school children who still have
headaches from mastering simple fractions. This is
casting no aspersions on the man in the street any more
than children should be criticized for not being born
with a knowledge of fractions in their brains that they
may proceed at once to trigonometry. We as a spe-
cies have our grades of intellectual attainments, or
classifications of erudition, and no one class has ·the
right to look·derisively on another class simply because
the first has been the longer at school. 'It does follow
however, that those who have been at school longest
have advanced themselves into positions of power and
affluence :where they are mentors instinctively for those
not so progressed. As such, they are able to take con-
structive action for the swifter betterment of the vari-
14
ous races as components of a more plastic world society'.
They have values given them as mentors which can be
so externalized that even the mentors may profit as well
as the pupils. Thus the whole concourse of pervading
wisdom can be speeded up until a state of world cosmo-
politanism results that makes social concord a matter of
the instincts.
This sort of mentorship, I maintain, has been the true
basis for all the social: progress that man has made to
date, bringing society up from barbarism by a method
and procedure to which I hope1 to give some new inter-
pretations before my reader has finished with my book.
It has been responsible for constructive mass-thinking
as we know it, and it will continue to be such until the
end of earthly time. It is all a process of the more ad-
vanced commentators and analysts "spelling the multi-
tude" ~ ~
For this reason I address myself to them, that Goodly
Company of the intellectually elite on every continent
and in every nation into whose hands this book may
arrive. I say to them: "We have a heritage, a condi-
tion, a trust, imposed upon us. We are not group mem-
bers but members of a Group. Our mission it is, to
interpret the imponderables of social trigonometry to
those who are graduating from their simple fractions
and seeking application of fractions as a study.
In other words, without audacity or intellectual snob-
bery, by the very essence of our knowledge, we should
consider ourselves as those in whose hands world
15
~ _-
progress is reposed. We are those constantly given light
on dark pathways with the understanding that it is not
for our feet alone that such light is given, but for the
intellectually handicapped who follow where we lead.
We must think of ourselves as lamplighters and bea-
con carriers who have the moral stamina to explore
where the provincial minded, and mentally inhibited,
fear to tread in adolescence. We must take the knowl-
edge L\at is given us and apply it practically, fearing no
issue no matter how formidable, analyzing such half-
truths as have served as shibboleths to the partially
instructed to the present, making ourselves to discern
that cultural intellectualism, like beauty, is not for con-
finement within group limitations, and compelling at-
tention to our assumed attainments by the practibility
of them in action.
We mortals as a species, maturing intellectually regard-
less of our caste, are a peculiar order of creation. We
are given to certain principles of expression not en-
joyed by other species. We popularly term those prin-
ciples the "divinity" within us. What "divinity" act-
ually may be, we have no means of knowing so long as
our thinking is done in the finite. But this we are
aware of-
The human race has some sort of destiny. That destiny
is guided by certain controlling factors that taken by and
large may be qualified as Government. There are as
many types of government as there are compound
racial factors to be dealt in. But over and above
16
__,.-~---- - ·-~.,.-.~·---· -·...:~_..,_____-------
them all maintains a sort of Group Consciousness of
what is essential for the ultimate end. This Group
Consciousness, or ..progressive ideal," must not be
lightly considered. It is something too deep for cursory
analysis, something that merits our profoundest attefi-
tion. Considered as a trust to the race, it more re·
sembles the Cosmic Sense of Order inherent in every
reasoning person and showing itself in submission to a
despot as in the deliberative councils of freemen.
It is Government in the abstract working out concretely.
tJ But we as human beings have long since accepted the
notion that Government, as such, can only manifest ex-
ternally in forms of organization. And that is a tenet
I refute ~ ~
Government considered solely as forms of organization
is shown to he colossal in failure wherever it is accepted
as the norm of social conduct.
True government, as every sophisticate knows, is true
anarchy. And while I hasten likewise to refute the as-
sumption that I am an anarchist in any sense of the
term, I do argue that Government as such can. never
function adequately until the admission is general that
man's spirit transcends organization and expresses it-
self as superior to it-and by expression I mean this:
That each mortal soul by its own sense of self-awareness
recognizes its true relation to its fellows and behaves
with due regard for their equal rights of expression and
social deportment.
Government, therefore, is not strictly a thing of rules
17
and laws. Such are but temporary, or rather for utility,
while the spirit is gaining to a recognition of itself in
juxtaposition to those around it.
Government in its essence is Self,.Control, or abstract
repressive deportment, whether it comes from the in-
herent sense of the rights of others or the fiats of
authorities impelling a certain mean of behaviorism that
the greatest good may accrue to the greatest numbers.
fj We are all infants in Government that is confined to
organization. \Ve have tried this and that, over the
ages, and found nothing wholly suitable to care for the
multiple and complex desires of evolving human beings
in their individual integrities. Each new race and cycle
have been responsible for their own experimentings.
Perhaps we can say that we of today are the inheritors
of the profits that have come from these experimentings.
In a measure it is true-insofar as we admit that Gov-
ernment as we find it in this world has gone through
evolutions or improvements at all.
But all of us have possessed from the very beginnings
of ourselves-deep within our consciences-a desire to
be treated in a certain way by others. We recognize
the sense of obligation involved in expecting this treat-
ment to tum about and admit certain concessions to our
fellowmen everywhere. So Government manifests in
our own subconscious workings, day unto day and hour
unto hour.
It is with these distinctions carefully emphasized, that I
purpose to fill the pages following with some concepts
18
of Government as "spiritual control in action" and lead
my readers through some phases of interpretative psy-
chology to a beneficial understanding of the causes, ex-
' positions, and possibilities of the factors within society
; that can influence and direct humankind toward a more
:sublime realization of its temporal residence.
:Itis time that we examined these factors and did them
justice. Too long have they been neglected, or ignored,
·to human hurt ~ ~
19
/ ..-
THE SECOND DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~ THE SECOND DISCUSSION ~
0 LET us stroke into our study
by first examining such phase
of government as is based pure·
ly on principles of Law and Or-
der, instead-as some folks de-
light to put it-on the Will of
the Majority. Then, second,
if there be true government by
the Will of the Majority, why
the necessity for the phenomenon known as Leader·
ship? f]! Without attempting in any way to disparage
either the integrity or capability of the public conscience,
I submit that the Will of the Majority is not only de-
ceptive, but an obvious paradox. Has it never occurred
to you that the Will of the Majority implies rulership by
a class of people who themselves require to be ruled,
else government would be needless and probably not
conceived? ~ ~
Divine spirits, as such, may be above necessity for gov-
ernment, which is why they are divine. But the aver·
age mortal is a rebellious soul at heart. He is the product
of heredity, environment, prenatal existences, and a
23
general voracity in material desire, else he would not
find himself on earth to attain to self-control.
Here, then,. we have a great horde of mortals inducted
into this earthly residence in urgent need of discipline.
But therein lies the crux of my whole interpretation:
Rarely is discipline deliberately self-wrought. Discip-
line is a product of carefully worked-out principles based
on tested logic and irrefutable evidence of all the fac-
tors entering into the individual character but represent-
ed collectively by the mass. By this I mean, that you
can't have a man prescribe for himself all such attributes
as he may require while handicapped by fears, lusts,
worldly appetites and passions. You can educate a man
over a series of lives and still he will not know what the
Body Politic needs excepting as he may in a broad way
represent it. So I am going so far as to state a second
prem1se-
Never in the history of humankind on earth has it ever
led itself!
There is no such thing as Self-Leadership, I claim. As
well talk of the blind leading themselves by sight. The
blind are sightless, which is why we call them blind.
So too is the individual in regard to self-discipline. But
even as the individual blind man may grope and find his
way about, calling it sight of a sort, so does humanity
grope in government and misname it Sovereignty.
Really this is a hoaxing of the self.
All down the years, however, have come leaders for the
races. They have cajoled, begged, fought, and expound-
24
eel, stnvmg to make humankind recognize and admit
its lack of sight. Of course humankind has resented
such mentorship-as anyone, anywhere, defends an
obvious fault. That does not alter the fact that human-
kind is instinctively imbued with a willingness to follow
leadership. And what is such willingness but admission
of the general blindness to which I call attention: the
acknowledgment that leadership is mortally essential?
CJ Now then, what is leadership?
Let us arrive at our first definition by discerning what it
is not ±fl ~
A VER that leadership does not mean, as
so many folks accept, the ability or privi-
lege of giving commands which result in
obedience. That is a slavery to formal-
ity. Leadership is bigger than that, al-
though such ability must be part of its equipment ~
Neither is leadership the capacity to inspire others with
grandiose ideals. Many men do that, and never reach
true leadership.
Leadership is the ability to take humankind wherever-
and however-it is found, and make it go in a direction
of attested self-improvement !
A forced draft behind human nature is always fatal to
the principals involved.
Pure and undefiled leadership, I repeat, is the talent for
taking humankind and giving it eyes to see its way, of
and for itself. And by this definition the process of
25
"',I ...--------------------"==========------
leadership involves factors and attributes not always
conceded by leaders themselves. . They. must have per-
spicacity, a knowledge of human nature, a cognizance
of world trends, and a steadfast belief in themselves as
mentors. Still, these are not enough.
They must have an abiding and undubitable faith in the
principles of government worked out along these lines-.-.
f]f First, that man is unlimited of concupiscence involv-
ing his own interests.
Second, that he has no heart for self-control that at-
tempts to abridge his personal self-expression.
Third, that he knows no authority of earth that tran-
scends his own physical or mental capability.
Fourth, that he will have his own way though twenty
of Caesar's legions arise to balk or stop him.
These four points must be kept in mind by any real lead-
er. He is not so much a principal among men as he is
a diverter of these factors into up-grade constructive
channels~~
The leader who attempts to embody social, moral, or
political issues in himself and represent them in action,
is only omnipotent so long as his favorite doctrines hap-
pen to stay popular. But those who lead for the ages
are those who build abstract governmental structures on
lines of least resistance for themselves by acknowledg-
ing the four points above at all times.
So we apparently have a condition in all society of every
land where those who lead must swim with the currents
of popular inclination but at the same time be confident
26
of the fact that the general trend is toward improvement
of society at large, and that society at large must exist
for self-improvement or it is useless and licentious, and
therefore lacks cause for being. And to say that society
lacks cause for being-that this worldly residence of
ours lacks point and purpose-is to refute Mother Na-
ture who makes nothing without reasons in measurable
fact ±!I ±!I •
As natural laws are given for the control of the ele-
ments, so are certain laws formulated for the control of
society. Those laws are founded on one basic principle:
That mankind is forging toward relative perfection,
therefore we have reasons for his earthly visitation f!t
To assimilate this premise until its presence is an in-
stinct in his character is the fundamental tenet that
marks out the leader.
All the same we must descry that the leader always
comes in answer to a need. That need is often so ab-
struse that it seems contradictory to discernments of
fact. It is necessary in logic for a leader to lead. But
what perforce, is happening? Always mankind is grop-
ing, and sometimes more than groping. Sometimes
mankind is being. deliberately eriticed into vicious error
or retrograde tendency. Leaders therefore appear at
such times, at the call of something within themselves
that transcends human ingenuity, perspicacity, or
knowledge of their courses. They are usually, but not
necessarily, men of education. But more than all else
they have what the great mass of humanity ordinarily
27
l
f ' .-
t- --
'-
' lacks: Nothing more and nothing less than Spiritual
Foresight ~ ~
By Spiritual Foresight I mean the capacity to read the
present in terms of the future, that the future may be
realized in terms of the presentI
You cannot have society forever blundering and getting
nowhere. Always and forever there must be an up-
ward trend. But that trend is as much a part of the fu-
ture as of the present, and vice versa, as any schoolboy
knows~~
Leadership then, consists in making men see: first, that
there is a trend; second, that it must be followed con-
structively toward a higher level; third, that there must
be as much attention paid to the path by which the high-
er level is reached as to the level itself-for it is the
level's complement.
The real leader does not try to persuade men into any-
thing-unless he be a fool with animal spirits to in-
dulge. The real leader has visions which come from
sources which the present spiritual blindness of man-
kind will not allow to be accredited.
No matter.
These visions enable the leader unerringly to mark
trends. Moreover, they enable him to read the present
in terms of the future. But he does not rise up, wav-
ing his arms to divert humanity like a policeman at a
crossroads. He calmly and judiciously withdraws into
himself and asks: "What is the best way to make hu-
manity see of itself what I see as profitable for it}., Then
28
he gives instruction to humanity in terms of the inspira~
tion that has come to him in turn.
The ordinary "leader" digs a pit for his own feet when
he says to humanity: "Do this!" or "Do that!"
Wise leadership, true leadership, says to the race, "You
have within yourself factors for the solution of every
quandary that besets you. Suppose we examine them
together and decide. what seems best in the light of our
knowledge. I give you of my opinion than it is thus
and so . . ''
m~afB~ URNING aside here for a moment to illus~
trate these suggestions here in America,
we have problems of "self government"
which madden the throng that considers
itself the court of final adjudication on all
matters annoying the Body Politic. Such questions, I
mean, as the right of the States to determine federal
laws, the rights of individuals in certain localities to pre-
scribe for themselves as against the commonwealth, the
rights of vested interests to do as they please because
there seem to be no powers capable of thwarting them,
the ambitions of large numbers of demagogues to make
themselves of prominence, the wishes of large numbers
of goodly people to see righteousness prevail by force-
and the mistakes of equally large numbers of earnest
souls who believe that a righteous end justifies a dis~
honest or infamous means. These problems comprise
the Local Option issue, the dangerous arrogances of so~
29
!
r
'...-_,
called trade unionism, legislation against various forms
of vice, the tendency of certain churchly hierarchies to
dominate in secular affairs, the right of minorities to
designate the behavior of majorities, the strategies of
non-social races like the Jews to master the peoples of
Christendom even though such megalomania precipi-
tates the worst pogrom in their history.
Grave questions, these are; striking at the very roots
o·f current Civilization-which, by the way, is another
deceptive term.
I say there is no such thing as Civilization in its broadest
sense. There is only social evolution. What is civiliza-
tion to one generation is the rankest barbarism to the
next~~
Nevertheless, these grave questions designate the de-.
gree of our social evolution and demand the highest
leadership. That is, they demand the capacity on the
part of certain individuals to recognize trends, to deter-
mine policies, and to herd humanity like a flock of will-
ing sheep toward a magnificent attainment. If the sheep
metaphor, be resented for the moment, put it that hu-
manity is not unlike a horde of children on a crusade to
reach a Holy Sepulchre of their physical idealism. They
have the desire to bett~r themselves, which is the true
reason for their being in life at all. But they cannot
embark on the crusade unless there be the requisite
number of persons like Peter the Hermit to show them
that the crusade is desirable at all. Thus Peter the
Hermit was the real leader of the medieval Childrens'
30
Crusades, not the captains with the banners who headed
numbered cohorts.
To get back to our problems in modern America, true
leadership requires that certain persons avoid beirig
. demagogues and turn instructors, not dogmatists but
logicians of such simple profundity that the most igno-
rant slum dweller.knows what government is all about.
fJ l say this in kindness: There. are scarcely six leaders
on this basis in all the United States today, and less than
a score throughout the whole earth! That. is why
humanity is so sorely confused. That is why it plunges
blindly forward into such cataclysms as the recent world
war. True, the world war was deliberately precipitated
by leaders of a sort. But it was an introvert, negative
leadership that besought selfish enhancements for a little
racial clique that when finally unmasked and identified
may easily result in physical annihilation of the breed.
On the whole I would say that instead of being leader-
ship it was approximately sorcery.
Humanity demands leadership that has in it the element
of social truth married irrevocably to clarity of expres-
sion. Until that comes, the nation is at the beggary of
circumstance and the prey of popular passions.
But how to find such leaders, and how to recognize their
worth in performance? . . .
31
~ -
'
L
~
~
J
w~~;;.,.;i~+.1 HIRTY years or so ago, the United States
was treated to the advent of a man who
made a record in American statesmanship
second only in importance to the leader-
ship of Lincoln's. Theodore Roosevelt,
much as I personally deplore many of his bombastic
theatricalisms, was a true leader of the type I am ex-
pounding, who tried to utilize not to explore, to direct
not to augur, to decide for the nation what was natural
and proper in the line of its destiny and epitomize men's
opinions toward that end, not to do as his namesake of
later years has done: make a grand gesture at leader-
ship while all the time surrendering that sacred pre-
rogative to a little knot of schemers who capitalize on
their control of his office to enhance themselves and
alien compatriots at Gentile expense.
The first Roosevelt was unique in this: that he seemed
to explore, to augur, to manifest, while all the time he
showed his true capacity for heading a mighty nation
by letting others have the rein so long as they drove in
a path that led upward.
Theodore has gone in personal influence but his spirit
lives on in memory of true mastery. He was the arch-
enemy of Privilege, the archangel of the publlc sover-
eignty inspired and guided instead of compressed and
flogged into regimentation and other political and social
channels which have been many times tried in history
and always proven failures. He was the living embodi-
ment of my contention, that mankind not only needs
32
leadership but aligns behind such willingly when it has
full confidence in him who directs.
Again I say there is no such thing as a people, even in a
republic in the modem manner, governing itself by the
"will of the majority" ...
The first Roosevelt ruled this nation with a hand more
despotic than that of Mussolini's, "getting away" with
things that from a lesser man would have been so
challenged as to land him in a predicament more em·
barrassing than Kaiser Wilhelm's. But he knew his
craft. It was born in his soul. He said to men not
"Come!" or even "Press forward!" He said, "Let's all
go together and have a bully time!" As such he ful-
filled an ample destiny-the most colorful, the strongest
and most personable President since America lost Abe
Lincoln !-!' !-!'
He led by assimilation of the future in terms of the
present ~ !-!'
Consider his namesake, skyrocketed to a theatric popu-
larity like any Hollywood blonde, making lacrimose
radio appeals that his people do this or that, ruling by a
manufactured duress that must have an obedient popin-
jay Congress to automatically legalize each recommen-
dation that is slyly slipped into his mind by any ulterior
interest that can gain to his ear, experimenting on the
living body of the American commonwealth with the
same menace that attends an operation on a human
body by a drunken surgeon, and sending corner tailors
and barbers to jail for not acquiescing in his regimented
33
_. __j -JI.._
nonsense. What a satire on mentorship for a great but
bedeviled people!
Of course the phenomenon of the second Roosevelt is
but an incident in the Republic's history-and mayhap
a very passe incident by the time this book reaches
readers'. hands. But the records of the two men are
forever engraved on tablets of history and must ever
remain there, no matter if the country itself is brought
down to the dust.
Men forget in either their heroisms or ribaldries that
they are mirroring their true selves on facades of ma-
terials that are harder than granite, and that the reflec-
tion does not vanish with the vanishing of their bodies.
f][ Strong men are institutions, enduring in the heart if
not in the basalt.
Weak men are curiosa, exhibiting to posterity which
world-paths not to take!
34
THE THIRD DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
THE THIRD DISCUSSION
NOTHER who read arightly the
Signs of the Times-which
means everything and nothing
-was Calvin Coolidge. Calvin
was less spectacular than Theo-
dore. He lacked the latter's
magnetic bombast. Coolidge,
however, had the gift for guid-
ing men along lines they chose
to go-so long as it was upward-yet letting them ap-
pear to direct their own affairs.
Leaders, it is said, are born and not made. Never was
profounder truth uttered by men's lips.
This birth of leadership, however, cannot be an accident.
fJ[ One of the first things giving sight to the race in great
matters of social policy is to admit that all men are not
endowed alike with capacity for leadership.
It would be equally as absurd for the students of a given
college to declare that they have the wisdom of their
professors, as for the mass of humankind to think that
because there is a mass in the majority that it therefore
becomes omn1pntcnt of discernment in matters of public
37
~ ..
-- \
policy-or that the mass of itself breeds the leader from
the very fact that he is born amid the masses.
I will not even admit ·that the mass has anything· to do
with giving such a one the opportunity for attaining
unto leadership. If this were true, the greater the mass,
and the wider its social license, the more leaders would
be developed.
Nothing of the sort is evidenced by history.
Understand me, this is by no means an argument for
autocracy. Nor am I endorsing the sovereignty of
royalty. Autocracies and royal houses are often neces-
sary so long as humankind exists in its present imperfecJ:
state. But there are autocracies and autocracies. And
there is royalty and Royalty. Each of these of a political
order are usually based on force of arms, abhorrent to
freemen whether temperamentally ''blind" or not ~
(jf I declare, if you please, that there is autocracy and
royalty of another order based on Force of Intellect-
from which the real leaders are always recruited-far
advanced beyond the ordinary run of mankind because
its members have lived, longer before coming into the
mortal coil as each generation knows it. But these in-
tellectual autocracies and royal houses have no more
right to the credit for their knowledge, perspicacity, and
social wisdom, than an old man has the right to lord it
over an untutored schoolboy. The former is the natural
product of mere experience and growth.
The fact remains that humankind is divided into two
cl~~ses: Those who are born with a preponderance of
38
social equipment, and those not so favored in point of
earthly time. And just as everyone not so born is not
necessarily a leader because he may be intellectually in-
ferior, so the average run of humankind is not neces-
sarily capable of directly itself merely because the pre-
vailing political order furnishes opportunity.
This, of course, is a somewhat bitter pill for the man in
the street to swallow. He likes to think of himself as
omnipotent to direct his destiny because he exists in
numbers. But this is creating an autocracy based on a
type of force. Consider his salvation-
Given a group of human beings, invariably in that group
will be one person, or sometimes a number of persons,
who adapt themselves to leadership by a sort of eager
instinct. Who are these people? Why should they
function? Why not any hit or miss selection from
among the seething populace?
I would introduce a new and perhaps novel factor into
political thinking when I say, that my own researches
have led me to believe that the same Divine Intellect
that made laws for the natural world has gone still
farther and made unchallengeable laws for the world we
call social. And the first and the greatest of these laws
for the social world is, that no group is permitted to
exist-that is, come into actuality in physical life-
; without its mentors.
' That seems to be a natural social law as indubitable as
that a flock of wild geese shall not, and does not, attempt
to migrate without a leader at its apex.
39
These people cannot "just happen." I submit that they
do not "just happen." Disregarding for the moment
those procedures by which they come into occupancies
of their earthly heritages, they are endowed by and from
some Higher Authority with certain attributes setting
them apart from their fellows. And, . . . mark this!
. . . in a democracy there are more of them because
the need' for them is greater. That seems to be the rule.
But the democracy itself has little to do with either
breeding or evolving them. Until people get over the
notion that there is anything infamous or necromantic
in such structure, they will always muddle and stumble
in government.
Leadership is an attainment, but not as men think of
attainment in one small life. I advance the fraught con-
viction that it is rather an endowment built up from vast
experience over long cycles of time, and remaining with
those characters who have the capacity for profiting
most richly from such experience. Which might be
another way of stating that leaders are practically mem-
bers of a Cosmic: Order, whether or not they are con-
sciously aware of it.
Until people accredit such benefaction they are going
to bring upon themselves an increasing amount of
spiritual bedlam.
Considered in the cosmic sense, leaders have "attained"
to their positions, it is true. But they have not done so
in the sense that any Tom, Dick, or Harry, becomes a
"leader" simply because he is clever at fostering incite-
40
ments. In a democracy this means what? It means
that there is no such thing as a "demagogue leader," the
essence of demagoguery nullifying leadership . . .
Clra~~ HE AUTOCRAT of the sword eventually
makes way, or gives way, to the autocrat
of the intellect. The autocrat of the in~
tellect cannot be suppressed or dethroned
by ballot-stealing, secret police, or political
mutiny. It is true that all sorts of attempts are made-
and many of them are seemingly successful for a time-
to ignore him or keep him from public attention. But
the more pronounced the intellect the more autocratic
will be its power, though scarcely ever exercised with
the effrontery of the jingoist.
Democracy in its Utopian sense being properly an
autocracy of intellects1 it is therefore little more than a
catch-word in essence, a bagatelle for orators. In active
practice quite the contrary is the truth. Democracies
are commonly considered heterogeneous organisms di-
rected by mob judgments. But what really happens is,
either an intellectual autocracy triumphs or anarchy
results ~ ~
Today in America we have anarchy of the most virulent
type because mankind has a perniciously encouraged
tendency to crucify its autocrats of the intellect, not by
dragging them through the public streets and nailing
them to crosses outside the city limits, but by mistakenly
ignoring them, avoiding them as prigs, making small
41
··'
.,.,.
f;
- I
- '
i;_ ',,.
.___ -
effort to understand them, and forcing· them into aca-
demic cloisters while childishly raising up Mr. Average
Man as the standard and epitome of social and political
acumen :4f :4f
Understand me, by no means do I imply that all oc-
cupants of academic cloisters are necessarily autocrats
of intellect, and that pedantic theorists should ever be
allowed to play the roles of men who have gained to
their places of worth by the· hard and bitter roads of
practical ·experience.
I made the statement that because a great predatory
clique sees its greatest menace in an autocracy of intel-
lectual giants, so the public is not only encouraged but
maliciously trained to disparage and ostracize them, to
make them take sanctuary in sacristies of learning, to
laud the mass sagacity of the vulgar yokel, playing up
to his caprices, inhibitions, and inferiority complexes,
and misnaming it "government of the people, for the
people, and by the people..,
Again I prophesy that when the race finally awakens to
the extent of its bilking in that regard, the reprisals are
likely to be terrible to contemplate ...
We have another condition too in present-day America
where people resent any interferences with their animal
liberties because the general level of intelligence seems
so low that they cannot read Liberty in any other sense.
tJf This is a state more responsible for this prevalent
anarchy than any other factor affecting modern society.
Men, of course, resent fiercely any attempts to force
42
them into godliness, .and I for one commend them. I
say that those who would so force them are transgress-
ing natural law as unerringly; as though they jumped
from a cliff, or before· a hurtling train, expecting no
destruction to follow as penalty.
Humankind caµ climb towards Utopia only by gradual
and general elevation of spiritual standards, not by
freak processes. of fiat· legislation!
The spir,itual standard must always come first. It must
contain ingredients as powerful and effective of entice-
ment as any of the tendencies that pull men into retro-
grade. The job of America's new leaders is to pay heed
to this great natural law as it applies to human nature.
fJI Leadership is more than a responsibility. It is more
than interpretation.
It is an intelligent analysis of social trends and a warp-
ing, chiseling, and shaping of them onto high and
attractive levels.
Judged by this standard is it so impertinent to declare
that there are scarcely half a dozen leaders in America
today? · I do ·not refer to the so-called lntelligentzia,
largely made up of ambitious young Jews and Jewesses
who have purloined Christian names and strut in their
camouflage as a caste before the public. I do not refer
to the so-called lntelligentzia that are ribald intellect
sharpeners, blossomers of pragmatisms, freaks of eru-
dition. I mean souls of such cosmic experience, wis-
dom and sobriety-spirits of such salubrious worth-
that they can attract and hold the attention of mankind
43
while inveigling the race's thought up onto tablelands
of righteousness.
These are the true Intelligentzia, and they do not gather
about Algonquin luncheontables, or strut in the Sunday
supplements. And wherever they get the true chance
to function they inevitably make history.
Of course this dearth of leaders is not humanity's fault
and it might seem for the moment that I am contra-
dicting my premise by charging the Almighty with a
lapse of performance. Hut am I? It stands to reason
that the lower the level of spiritual intelligence, the
·fewer the numbers of true leaders will be, my argument
having it that a low level of spiritual intelligence re-
quires fewer leaders to guide it.
Please make a careful distinction here between "a low
level of spiritual intelligence" and government in the
democratic form.
I said that in a democracy there were more leaders be-
cause the need was greater. It requires no fleshly
Academy of Immortals to head a movement of Russian
peasants. One husky Cossack could probably get more
effective followship than a dozen Keyserlings or Emer-
sons, whereas conversely a thousand men of their in-
tellectual attainments would be more at home in a
democracy as a greater arena for their talents than
under a regal autocracy where their very talents might
disturb the existing order.
A country of high spiritual intelligence by its very es-
sence manufactures more diversified and impelling in-
44
tellectual objectives requiring mentoring to attain ~
Humanity therefore is not to be castigated for some-
thing it has had no hand in projecting. But all the more
reason that when such leaders are sent, they be given
more respectful attention, not pulled down by dema-
gogues to as near the common mean as possible ~ ~
fjf True democracy, as maintained in ancient Athens,
ought to be considered not a type of political structure
but a field for perception of intellectual leadership. It
exists, where it does exist, that humanity may have
freedom of will and opportunity to go forward at the
behest of intellectual autocracy, not to escape all dis-
cipline altogether, even that which is seemingly self-
enforced ~ ~
f.l~~~l!ND YET, strange as it may seem in the
light of the foregoing, it is usually the
autocracies and not the democracies that
are most benevolent toward the outstand-
il}g intellect. Autocracies, however selfish
in personnel or movement, usually aim at some con-
structive end though it be nothing more than their own
perpetuity. The essence of their functioning com-
mands that they move forward. Stagnation makes them
vulnerable and prey to competitive influences.
Autocracies are seemingly benevolent toward outstand-
ing intellect because, as governmental patterns, they
must pay it attention for one of two reasons: to bastion
their own positions and augment their own vitalities, or
45
keep outstanding intellect .in some form of subjection
through cultivation and thus draw the fangs of its
potentcy to do damage against themselves ~ ~ ~
Where they make their tragic mistake is in thinking
that there is an affinity of interests between an autoc~
racy of intellect and an autocracy of political form
merely because they are both autocracies. As a matter
of fact they are diametrically opposedi to one another,
which is why a preponderance of intellect in any au-
tocracy of force usually results in the democracy phe-
nomenon~~
And while we are thus discoursing, just what is an
autocrat? ~ ~
I would define him as a personage so sure of his material
or spiritual premise that he can afford to give the effect
of disregarding every form of competition or criticism,
and deport himself as though all mankind believes
exactly as himself.
This may be a somewhat different interpretation from
what Noah Webster offers in his well-known compen-
dium of definitions. Webster says: "An autocrat is a
supreme ruler whose power is unrestricted and irre,..
sponsible" ~ ~
I maintain that this definition better fits my description
of a popular democracy than any scheme of life pursued
by some momentary dictator who must conform to cer-
tain laws of human nature or ultimately find himself
in some rear alley spinning on his neck annoyingly en-
tangled in a maze of Sam-Brown belts.
46
No~ most people assume that autocracies must natu-
rally be bad because the military autocrat enforces what
the citizen would protest if. he had the power to make
his voice effective.
Autocracy has an odious aspect because it has been
practiced with executive insolence.
Eliminate or foreswear the insolence, and autocracy is
interpreted in terms of Duty, Allegiance, Manifest
Destiny toward an ideal expressing continuous strength.
t][ The autocrat of intellect, not employing the mailed
fist, is too seldom recognized for precisely what he is.
By velvety inveiglement he utilizes the idealism which
is the spark of divinity in every man to bring out of
social chaos a workable plan for spiritual achievement.
(jj Men are men, no matter how helpless or degraded.
They have a spark of the Infinite Godhead in each of
them. When you enslave them you enslave that spark;
fifty times more destructive tha.n dynamite. It cannot
he done permanently, which is why all autocracies based
on force sooner or later crash down in debris.
When you have an autocracy of intellect, making its
preponderant power felt in action, you usually have
something that approximates true public sovereignty.
And when you have true public sovereignty that is con-
structive in its movement, you have a field of force that
is constantly operating toward the evolution of ideals.
Bear this in mind, however-
Those ideals are ever interpreted by certain Master
Spirits ~ ~
47
America, for example, has a mission to fill as a political
entity among the nations of the world. It is not a mis-
sion to hold up before those other nations the shibboleth
of national license or international snobbery. America's
mission is-as I see it-that she shall be a bright and
shining light to all other races of the earth, showing
them the true significance of a unity of interests com-
bined under a pacific political form that permits
spiritual ideals to work out in action under intellectual
autocrats ~ ~
For those intellectual autocrats will function, which is
the essence of any sovereignty, American or otherwise.
They will ultimately hold the reins and drive the public
chariot whether the populace assents to it or not ~ ~
fJf All of which constitutes my argument that our
present American sovereignty, whether you want to
give it the name of a republic or a democracy, is not
truly such until it abandons its anarchy, recognizes the
true tenets of leadership, opens the cloisters where it
daily imprisons real intellectualism, and gives free driv-
ing license to those with the true capacity for driving.
fJf The tendency at present, as I have said, is to discredit
the leader because he is the leader and to hoist Mr.
Mediocrity onto the pedestal of popular acclaim ~ ~
fJf We follow this tendency because it is put before us
as the only one to follow. And it is put before us as the
only one to follow, because the predatory faction sees
a fatal menace to itself in letting an aristocracy of in-
tellect come to the fore. Particularly is this true in
48
political matters where it may be free to exercise its
sagacity in practical antagonisms.
The predatory faction, mainly alien, has now attained
to such subtle eminence by ensconcing itself in finance
and journalism, that it can clandestinely determine who
is going to be elevated to positions of political executive-
ship and just what they are to do when theii: elevation
is effected ~ ~
It can therefore ignore, or have ignored, or break by
criticism or ridicule, those who will not show them·
selves amenable to its dictates-which true autocracy of
intellect will not.
We are treated consequently to a government by nin-
compoops-little men in heavy harness-and we won·
der which is wrong with our republican institutions ~
CJ! We are a government of the people, for the people,
and by the people-maybe. Most of which means
nothing but a platitude of rhetoric, the absolute nega-
tion of true public sovereignty in sense, logic, beauty,
and actuality.
Really we have descended in these catastrophic years
to a government of the people, for the promoters of a
super-Jewish world state, by agents of calamity, maneu-
vering by violence. And I do not speak cynically ~
CJ! True public sovereignty, I repeat, is nothing other
than a field of force in which certain evolutionary ideals
are operating, interpreted by certain Master Souls who
come from an intellectual oligarchy not accredited by
the populace ~ ~
49
The great Greek Democracy, which the world so much
admires-or imagines that it does, not knowing much
about it-.and to which the demagogues so frequently
refer, was nothing more than this in essence. And yet
it held within itself the seeds of its own destruction ~
t]f To determine what those were, as well as to clarify
much of the terminology in these matters which must
follow, I would digress from my theme for a chapter
and make an exposition of the fondamental difference
· between Democracy and Republicanism . . .
50
THE FOURTH DISCUSSION
/
'
NATIONS-IN - LAW
~ THE FOURTH DISCUSSION ~
HERE are no two terms in
'!.:::..-'allmllllaiiiiill.ll...W our language so inexcusably
misused as Democracy and
Republicanism. One of the
tragedies of our day of nincom-
poopery in statecraft is to
behold some vacuous spell-
binder stand before a group as
politically illiterate as himself
and employ the two terms interchangeably in making
his addresses on the American form of government ±..•
We are "the grand old Republic" one moment, and
"this glorious Democracy" the next.
It is a political execration upon the subversive alien con-
trol, that this transposition is not only permitted with-
out challenge but subtly encouraged in order to lend
strength to civil bedlam and thus make easier our ethical
disaster ~ ~
Men of sense and integrity lend themselves to such
tragic blither. Thereby do they reveal how pitifully
little they know of the once-great principles that actu-
ated the founders of this country. Yet the distinction
53
,• 1 '
?
i'
r.. -
~ ~---;
,.
is absurdly simple-
ln a Democracy the voice of the majority is assumed to
rule, and it is-largely uttered directly by the citizen who
is a constituent part thereof. It makes no difference
what the issue, or how the decision works harm to the
. - ·-. . '. '
minority·~·~.
In a Democracy, government is effected by the decision
of preponderance. Therefore it is too often govern-
ment by mob mood, public incitement, or mass hysteria.
fj[ In a Republic-assuming that it is a true republic-
an attempt is made to get the same general effect, but
minus the derogatory factors of mob mood, public in-
citement, or mass hysteria.
A class of officials known as "representatives of the
people" is chosen by popular franchise. These officials
are a popularly appointed ruling class, distinct and in".'
violate unto themselves during their tenure of office,
who are theoretically supposed to conduct the public
affairs for the greatest good of the greatest number and
yet decide all questions with sympathetic regard for the
rights and forfeitures of minorities insofar as is practi-
cally·. possible ~ ~
A Democracy is government of a people by themselves
without intermediaries, and according to the public ca-
prices of the moment.
A Republic is government of the people by a quasi-
professional law-making and law-administering caste,
which they have deliberately created to do their ruling
for them~~
54
Ofcourse both have their advantages. Both have. their
detriments. But no true Democracy has ever long en-
dured because, as I mentioned before, it contains within
itself the seeds of its own destruction.
~~~~~~ UPPOSE, to illustrate, we have fifty men
cast away on a desert island with .sufficient
acumen among them to decide that some
form ~f government must come into force
to mitigate natural antagonisms to com-
pany proposals that are bound to be advanced. They
will install the perfect Democracy. In that perfect
Democracy the vote of the majority shall constitute the
law~~
That means that forty-nine of those hundred castaways
must at all times, and under every condition, implicitly
obey the other fifty-one. Theoretically one man's voice
in such a state of affairs will determine the behavior of
the whole company if half should vote to adopt one ex-
pedient and half should vote to adopt another. But
would anyone who knew anything at all about human
nature expe.ct that they would do it? They would have
to be supermen in their. moral and ethical attainments
to countenance such numerical technicalities, especially
if their passions were aroused.
Suppose that a cask of liquor were suddenly washed
ashore. Suppose that practically one-half the company
wanted to drink the liquor in order to forget the menace
of a colony of savages that might paddle across from a
55
neighboring island and exterminate the lot of them. But
suppose fifty-one men out of the hundred said, "No,
we will smash the cask and turn the stuff into the sea,
that we may preserve our faculties, and thereby our
vigilance, and thereby our lives."
Would men who may have been addicted to drink be-
fore landing on the island suffer to see such wastage
happen? Frenzied for a stimulant denied to them for
months, all the fine theories about Democracy, and abid-
ing by the will of the majority, would go by the board.
A fight would ensue in which many might be killed ~
Or suppose, on the other hand, that it was a chest of
potatoes that had been washed ashore while scores in
that colony were suffering from scurvy. Suppose that
fifty-one wanted to conserve those potatoes and plant
them to get more-thereby assuring themselves of a
plethora of food-whereas forty-nine wanted to con-
sume those potatoes immediately in order to save their
lives~~
The majority might have its way and many of the
minority might perish from that scurvy. Doubtless
some sort of compromise should be made, and in practi-
cal application would be the order of the day.
Instead of a pure Democracy, however, suppose that
those castaways agreed to support a small Republic.
They would vote to repose their sovereign rights as in-
dividuals in the hands of five out of their number, who
should either hold office for a stated time, or during gen-
eral good behavior-that is, efficient executiveship ~
56
If those five had the supreme jurisdiction over the
ninety-five remaining-although elected and empow-
ered by a majority vote among the hundred-they
would doubtless say, when the cask of liquor came roll-
ing ashore: "Each man can have a quarter of a pint a
day as he may relish it, until the whole is gone. That
amount will injure no man's faculties or his vigilance.
It may, on the contrary, stimulate him to a better vigi-
lance than ever. So we will keep the cask in our pos-
session and control the spigot, thus assuring fair play
and honest potions allotted to each."
Although there might be grumbling, there would prob-
ably be no fight. Momentary passions would cool. The
ninety-five would ruefully agree that the proposal was
based on sense. And the same would operate in the
matter of potatoes. "Those who would otherwise die
of the scurvy may have one potato apiece," they would
decree. "The rest of the potatoes must be preserved
for planting in the spring."
It makes no difference how theoretically fine a Democ-
racy is on paper, men's passions are men's passions.
When one group of men want a thing and another
group declare they cannot have it, a contest is produced.
Numbers do not always mean the strength to dictate the
day. Twenty strapping giants might make mortal
sausage of eighty sickly striplings and seize the liquor
or potatoes at their pleasure. And the same thing goes
for a mighty or complicated State.
The pure Democracy is a rule by factions~though the
57 -
I
most powerful faction in point of numbers may indicate
what the decision is to be, the remaining faction, or all
the remaining factions, are going to intrigue, or fight
at once to challenge the permanency of decisions ~
f] In nine cases out of ten, in the resultant conflict, the
Democratic State itself will be swept from existence:
So long as men hold differences of opinion on any sub-
ject under the sun, discord will ultimately break into the
open and require to be settled by muscles or armaments.
f] Human nature is composed that way, and we did not
compose it, so all that we are called upon to do is to
take it as we find it and try to understand it.
The United States of America is not a democracy, never
has been a democracy, and cannot become a democracy
and very long endure.
The United States of America, from its very inception,
has been a republic and it is as a republic that it has
founded and sustained the American political structure
and become great, prosperous, and united.
It could have gone on being great, prosperous, and
united, if this subtle and insidious alien attack had not
come, more deadly than an attack by any foreign battle-
ship because it cannot always be distinguished for the
deadly thing it is.
Instead of permitting us to uphold the ideals of republi-
canism, and create a quasi-professional ruling caste com-
posed of men of integrity, stamina, and public worth,
we are hoaxed and deceived. We are introduced to a
species of retrograde "high-priestism"-an effeminate,
58
oriental caliphate-premised on racial megalomania,
that would discourage all initiative, whittle all men
down to the one common mean, make puppets out of
evolving freemen, and return us to an exploded political
barbarism that has only introduced ruin and stagnation
wherever it has been tried.
Yet it is hailed as "progress" by political parrots, satraps,
and flunkeys, who lack the faintest notion of what the
skullduggery is all about.
It is time to reestablish the true doctrines of American-
ism and make sharp distinctions in our political nomen-
clature ~ ~
This nation is a republic.
The Jews would make it a democracy to despoil it!
59
THE FIFTH DISCUSSION
I
NATIONS-IN-LAW
THE FIFTH DISCUSSION
N considering public sover-
~Jiiii~~&:~::I eignty-or the right to deter-
mine. their own form of gov-
ernment on the part of any
people-in terms of a republic,
it is necessary that its citizens
bear two fundamentals of civil
psychology in mind: First,
that those citizens have not
created that republic of themselves but have had help
from Nature in the matter of terrain and opportunities
for racial self-expression.
Second, they have been endowed with definite percep-
tions enabling them to discern what is both opportune
and sagacious for them to embrace in the way of gov-
ernment~~
They have hitched their political wagon to a star but
they must not forget that they of themselves did not
make the star; they followed it, or attached themselves
to it, as a gift from some higher galvanism of creation,
even though they refer to it as "that little spark of
divinity" within themselves.
63
Those citizens must remember too, that whereas re-
publics are reputed as being ungrateful, that is only
because each ideal advanced, giving rays to the star, has
to be judged on its own merits-outcome under per-
formance-not because it lights the fortunes of some
grateful group or potentate.
By this I mean, that light comes to a republic, or to a
race, in the form of intellectual precepts which I dare to
declare are offered by the Infinite. The republic, or the
race, must take them, analyze or dissect them, expound
them, and find out their application for maximum profit
to the majority, because so many ideals are the offering
not of infinite wisdom but of finite mentality. They go
unrewarded, unapplied, or uncredited, after a period of
time has proven their unworthiness.
Republics are like children, importuning the parent for
instruction but turning on the parent when the latter
reveals his fallible humanness.
To get an idea firmly established in and before a re-
public, it is necessary to do two things: First, advance
such an ideal as a feature of permanence, presenting the
essence of compounding profit; second, see that it is
projected not as a whip to strike from behind, but as an
enticing mystery to be explored, with a candystick award
in its heart for the race.
Take notice that this is exactly what we are well on
our way toward consummating in the Silvershirt Move-
ment, in our exposition of The Christian Co'mmon-
wealth. Returning to my thesis, leadership capable of
64
acknowledging such postualtes is not to be found in
any corner drugstore. It is a divine qualification which
leaders themselves too often ignore.
Christ Himself asked, "Whom do men say that I am?"
-implying far more than appeared on the surface. It
was not doubt of His own divinity, but a careful study
of His effect on His audience.
A thousand leaders ask themselves the same question
inversely when they demand: "How am I registering?
How am I going over?" But the difference between
them and the Great Teacher of Galilee is the difference
between the savior and the demagogue. The dema-
gogue asks in substance, "How good an actor am I?"
The savior asks, "Am I expounding my doctrine by my
life?" ~ ~
This is all infantile, after a fashion, and yet it is one of
the profoundest tenets underlying a republican form
of government.
Demagogues are always masqueraders for their finan~
Cial or social profit. Saviors have no thought for them-
selves, but immerse themselves completely in their
doctrines ~ ~
We as a nation are prone to give attention to the dema-
gogue because he is essentially the dramatic individ-
ualist. Universality, it seems, is beyond our facile
grasping. Moreover, it is the essence of individuality
that makes republics, else we would all be for the king
and his sycophants instead of for ourselves as citizens,
demanding freedom · under .which to work out our
65
destinies in self-government ~ ~ ~ ~
Make no mistake about this: humanity will always love
the demagogue because he is so human-at least in his
expressions. The salvation of the situation is, that the
demagogue as an individualist transcends his followers
and sooner or later they pull him down, if for no other
reason than malicious envy.
The spiritual instructor, on the other hand, always keeps
himself-by his very temperament-a little too high
and far above the mass for it to reach him, not alone in
his principles but in his attitude toward society.· The
latter may crucify him, not undertsanding him and
therefore fearing him, but not through malice in its
basic sense not yet through greed or envy to be like him.
~ Remember, that for every savior who is crucified, ten
thousand demagogues are beheaded dailyl
Speaking for the moment as a native of America,
steeped in its traditions and having given no small ac-
count of my stewardship of patriotic inspiration to the
moment, I say that what we need most as a nation is
not a renaissance of leadership-for one leader could
revive the natiOnal prestige in the hearts of all adherents,
and numbers of leaders do not make a nation great-
but a renaissance of followship, not blind acquiescence .
to spectacular doctrine but intelligent analysis of the
leadership that is constantly being offered. .
And the first tenet of this followship must be an analysis
of the leadership on the premise hereinbefore laid
down: A searching exploration into the doctrines ad-
66
vanced, to determine whether their sponsors are dema-
gogues serving private ends or interests, or Couriers out
of the Absolute, offering spiritual enticement for the up-
lift of our species.
Where are our leaders on this basis?
~~B[l! MERICA would be appalled at this mo-
ment if it could look into the private
hearts and lives of its most pampered idols
and hear their expressionss behind closed
doors. A leader is one who leads through
utter sacrifice of himself and his life to the discernments
that come to him of what his fellows need most ~
fJI' Applying this glass to the mass of so-called leaders
on every street corner, the result is stunning from the
angle of permanent social progress.
Our erstwhile Prohibition issue was a case in point ~
t;JI' It was an issue without a leader. Hence it was the
bagatelle of the nation's opportunists--<both positive
and negative. It was an issue founded on an ideal, but
wrongly executed-by demagogues. It was never the
expression of a united people rallying behind an entice-
ment, although in certain quarters it became so. It was
a rallying place for sentimentality, for demagoguery,
for personal interests of a most appalling magnitude ~
fJI' It started with a handful of sincere men and women,
led by sentimentality, striving to overcome an evil as
old as our species. It gathered momentum when law-
less forces saw the opportunity to profit from it-
67
wolves in sheep's clothing. It never had a basis in
spiritual enticement. The enticement it offered was
purely economic. It said to the citizen, "Change your
glass of grog for this golden coin,.. whereas the citizen
might have had many golden coins and still have been
thirsty for his grog. True, it had ethical benefits, but
few which the citizen could not embrace in his own
right-and at his personal volition-had he so elected.
fJf When a man sincerely desires to be good, national
legislation is an insolent superfluity.
Life is not run that way. Advancement in ethics is not
gained that way.
Economics never takes the place of the spiritual values,
nor could the Prohibition issue ever have become a
spiritual value until it appealed overwhelmingly to
man's desire to help himself to enduring happiness ~
f][ It is possible that in time-as I see it-the Prohibition
issue may be settled among Aryans on the plane of so;.
called sportsmanship. Making a game of an issue is an
Aryan character-attribute which all non-Aryans fail to
understand. I hold it is a phase of vivid spirituality ~
fJ[ The issue, however, that we are considering is not
whether a man may or may not drink his glass of grog.
The point I am making is: The American public has
small propensity for harkening to wise leadership, and
leaders as leaders today rarely display the courage to
stand or fall by their convictions.
They dabble in ethics, or are voluble in agitating the
various moral virtues. They expect that the public will
68
form a phalanx behind them. But how many men in
America tonight, do you suppose, sponsoring doctrines
tending to uplift the race, would stand staunchly for their
principles if they knew they were to be literally nailed
to a wall tomorrow and left to hang there as targets
for mud and excretion?
The man Gene Debs went to prison for his faith. He
was a great leader in the finest sense, however much we
may disagree with his doctrines as he preached them.
William Lloyd Garrison in a previous generation was
another who persisted in his doctrine-that black bond-
age was a crime-though a mob pulled him through the
streets of Boston at the end of a rope. Benjamin Frank•
lin, Thomas Jefferson, John Jay, James Madison, were
great leaders of political thought and promoters of the
Union idea under the federal Constitution. It took the
great Lincoln, however, to stand up amid the stresses of
the Rebellion and give true freedom his life.
Lincoln was a spiritual enticer in the finest sense of the
word~~
In America today are perhaps a scant half-dozen simi-
lar fo intensity of purpose. But until circumstance
supplies them with an acid test for their doctrines, and
demonstrates that those doctrines and their lives are
interchangeable, the citizens of this republic will con-
tinue of necessity to applaud yellow journalists and civil
scavengers, political hucksters, and moral sycophants.
f]f This is the great test of leadership, that the times
ripen with great issues and that leadership interprets
69
them in terms of constructive action with the personal
reward neglected or cast out! ~ ~ ~ ~
70
THE SIXTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS - IN-LAW
~ THE SIXTH DISCUSSION ~
T IS something to think about.
(] The times ripen with great
issues, I say, surpassing in im-
portance those of any period
since the collapse of the Roman
Empire. Unfortunate it is, that
we are disdainful of any truly
trenchant ·study of them, be-
cause they confront us in their
political aspects f] The human race the world over is dis-
gruntled at issues having the political aspect, first be-
cause politics-as politics-is synonymous with chi-
cane; second, because any political study has the nature
of exploration into the civic abstract, and to the 'Man
in the Street the civic abstract butters no parsnips.
Also, speaking for America at least, politics expressed
in the human equation is interpretable chiefly as dem-
agoguery and jingoism.
It is everybody's business and therefore nobody's busi-
ness~~
It is a sort of civic cancer that we assume must be toler-
ated in the social body and the less attention paid to it
73
consciously the less distress it inflicts as a ganglion.
t]' Truth to tell, we need a new word to take the place of
Politics i~ the languages of peoples all over the earth.
t]' Psychologically, the word itself is antagonistic to the
emotions. It is a technical word that expresses sheer
Form. It has no aesthetio values, being as coldly im-
personal as Greek syntax. It calls up in the eye of the
mind an obnoxious system that is academically external
to the individual's daily interests. In such personal ap-
plication as is enforced, there is the quality of Cossack
animus-which supplies exactly the amount of bellicos-
ity that renders its potency static in terms of human
understanding and of compatibility with the average
man's notions of liberty and freewill.
Politics is anathema because it expresses a form of emo-
tional sterility that is abhorrent to a created order whose
shibboleth is emotional fecundity.
Bear in mind that this is not saying that no emotion at-
taches to politics. But the emotion attaching to politics
grows from the individual's sense of personal gratitude
at s~me phase of the profits resulting from participation,
or his inverse resentment at political misfortune.
Politics-as politics-is merely the hard, glistening ma-
chine from which come benefits or iniquities to the aver-
age man, and no more love or emotion is wasted upon
it than upon any other machine that delivers a product.
To turn from my previous dissertation on Leadership
and write of practical politics that is the domain of
Leadership, is like damming up a river to send it through
74
a raceway. It sometimes does more damage than it
furnishes useful power.
Antagonisms as old as the race must be overcome-or
rather, interpreted-and the deeper one delves into the
subject, the higher is the wall of antagonism that rears,
and the stronger is the consciousness of wrong values
concurrent ~ ~
Yet we meet with this opposition-strangely-because
our surfeit of chicane and demagoguery has caused us
to forget that Politics is the science of making govern-
ment possible, with the least odium imparted by gov-
ernment itself.
You cannot have politics unless you have a people who
need governing. But you can have a people who need
governing without employing Politics.
Suppose that we attempt a new interpretation of an old,
old subject and put it in this way-
Politics is the science of government by diplomacy to-
ward the governed, instead of by autocratic fiat.
Let us see where it leads us.
75
'
f-~,
v
' i -
j
! ,
W?~--.-.w 0 begin with, politics takes the governed
and makes them the butt of their own
caprice, while at the same time accom-
plishing such measures of self-improve-
ment as may be requisite, desirable, or pos-
sible. To meet the issues of the new cycle in human
affairs and interpret them aright, however, we should
make one radical change in our thinking-
W e must get away from the notion, academic if not
practical, that •Politics is detestable.
Politics is one of the highest of the human arts, inas-
much ai:; it paints permanent pictures of earthly wel-
fare with the muddy pigments of cantankerous human
nature~~
Let us understand this thoroughly.
Politics may be subverted to malignant practices.
Politics as politics, however, contains much of the
divine-for God Himself has to paint pictures of earthly
welfare with the muddy pigments of cantankerous
human nature.
Understand this, too: Politics in the abstract is often a
gesture, but practical politics is far more than gesturing:
fJl It is a business maneuvering toward human organiza-
tion, for tangible direction of human attributes into a
constructive program for human betterment.
When we have accepted that definition we are halfway
through all political confusions.
You cannot have Politics without having government-
at least of a sort-else it would lose its distinction and
76
essence. Politics says to the governed: Come and be
governed, but consider it a blessing; consider it also a
challenge to your sporting attributes.
Politics thus becomes a phase of Spirituality, strange as
the analogy may seem.
You cannot have Politics as a practical measure for hu-
man advancement without giving it some sort of spirit-
ual twist, for the spiritual values are the permanent
values, which is why they are spiritual. Never mistake
that! Material and Temporary are synonymous terms.
fjf Politics is the science of going bankrupt materially to
acquire a fortune spiritually.
When men have a political problem to solve, it is notice-
able that they usually leave it to the minds best equip-
ped to solve it and are satisfied to be told-logically or
otherwise-the results of their thinking upon the
subject~~
If these results measure up to the instincts of the gov-
erned, no more is said about it-or rather, the solution
gets popular support-and this queer process is called
"government by the masses" whereas it is not govern-
ment at all.
It is assent to government by instinctive approbation.
fjf The governed not only do not want to think, but they
cannot think. They lack the mental equipment-the
reasoning machinery-for consecutive logicizing. Log-
icizing takes generations of experience in any person,
being able to compare this Cause with that Result, or
that Result with this Cause. The process is long and
77
? '
'
{~
i -
involved. The great mass of humankind cannot logicize
in its own day to day affairs. By what token or what
miracle therefore is it competent to pass on great public
questions requiring logic for solution, because it acts
enmasse? ~ ~
Logic is logic whether practiced by one man or a
million. In fact, one million men all logicizing, and
getting the same sort of result, would be little short of
miraculous.
Logicizing is a process by which old, old minds offer the
cream of their experience to whosoever may desire it
or may profit from it.
In proof of this, is the evidence that children are never
logical. Truth to tell, age itself might be designated as
an increasing capacity for logical behavior. But con-
sider this and mark it well-
Logicizing is not thinking.
Logicizing is taking a point or an issue under discus-
sion-or some affliction of the social body-and pre-
scribing for it after a careful analysis of all the factors
making it an issue.
Analysis of this character is incomprehensible to the
man in the street, however much the insinuation may
offend him. He lacks the erudition and the universality
of applied experience from many fields and contacts.
Furthermore, being an intense individualist, he cannot
disassociate his own particular viewpoints on the ques-
tion or issue, so as to consider it abstractly.
In other words, he reads every issue in paragraphs and
78
sentences and phrases-and most certainly in words-
that have application to his ego. This does not mean
that he is aware of himself. It means that he is tre-
mendously aware of the evolution seeking to make him
aware of himself.
The man in the street is wholly lovable and human.
And by the same token that he would not arraign him-
self for being unable to paint like Rembrandt or Michel-
angelo, he should not behave petulantly because he
lacks the skill to reason like Darwin, Locke, or Kant.
f][ Let us consider the man in the street as his own
politician and see where it gets us . . .
79
THE SEVENTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~ THE SEVENTH DISCUSSION ~
HE MAN in the street, first of
all, has no background ex-
cepting the immediate con-
cerns of family and neighbor-
hood. True, he is conscious of
his state and nation and some-
thing of other nations. But
they have small bearing on his
day-to-day life. «Jf The man in
the street sees no reason, therefore, for becoming ex-
cited over a larger number of people than he can con-
veniently count between his home and his office. Larger
numbers, considered practically, do not exist for him,
excepting as something vague and malevolent when
they threaten his neighborhood with explosive decrees
and judgments.
All of which is to say that despite his newspapers anil
magazines, his screen news and his radio, the man in the
street is inherently provincial. Large numbers of people
living at a distance are nothing but a great forest of
human trees, susceptible to gales of passion and often
uprooted by cyclones of thinking. None the less, the
83
I
•
~'
~r---~~~~~~~~~~~
~-""
~-
_j .
!. '
forest is there, and to the other fellow in the distant
neighborhood the first in turn is part of it. Now con-
sider this -
Every forest, whether of trees or of humanity, is likely
to have evil beasts stalking within it. By evil beasts I
mean creatures who gnaw the trees, topple them, and
work destruction of many kinds by dominating sections
of it against the approachments of foresters who would
do the trees good.
Such beasts are to be found in every forest, and doubly
so in the human forest, creatures of evil who delight in
malfeasance for its own sake as well as for the passing
power that it seems to give them.
The man in the streets does not realize that he is one of
the trees in the great human forest, until he has grown
so lofty that his mental stature commands the surround-
ing terrain. Even so, when he attains to that height he
recognizes more than ever how many other trees exist-
making up the woodlands-and is humbled and glad-
dened by the universality of his nature.
The man in the street, coming up from an undergrowth
status, knowing not his true relation to the rest of the
universe, imagines that he and his fellows in the immedi-
ate vicinity are peculiar unto themselves. And usually he
is right. He cannot perceive whether he is growing in
a marsh, or what existence may be like to trees on a
hilltop. If he is shag-hickory in character, he cannot
interpret rightly what a summer breeze means to a
whispering aspen. Inversely, the aspen thinks that
84
shimmering in the breeze is the substance of life, for-
getting that the hickory and spruce and oak are as es-
sential as background for forests in general else the first
heavy gale would level everything flat.
Applying such metaphor practically, we find that
human life in America as in many other parts of the
world, attempts to sublimate ignorance and medi-
ocrity mainly because ignorance and mediocrity are in
the preponderance.
The fact that the common people are in the majority
carries a certain glorification to those who cannot see
otherwise because their lives are circumscribed. There
is nothing malicious or malignant in this-on the whole
it is bathotic. But in actual practice it retards human
progress.
Commonness is not disgusting, because it is a state and
not a condition. But it is lamentable that it should seize
hold on the general imagination as something worthy of
tribute and eulogy.
We in the United States carry this tribute to the point of
hero worship. We glorify the average man, not be-
cause he is average but because we imagine that our
system of government depends upon his whim. So we
cajole him.
In certain situations this is necessary, yet considered as
a program it is a childish tendency made up of animal
fear and sentiment.
The American public is far from being a "herd"-it is
much too diversified in temperaments and interests. It
85
j
is probably the most facile social body on the entire
earth's face, because it is composed of so many dif-
ferent elements. But the American public is unique,
in that it glorifies Audacity instead of increment of
knowledge. It glorifies splendorful show instead of in-
trinsic worth. It glorifies the demagogue instead of the
statesman, and has the motion picture idol for its char-
acter-shibboleth instead of the thinker and .the con-
scientious scientist.
This, in itself. is a reaction from a deliberately-encour-
aged superficial thinking-or rather, no thinking at all
in the sense of wholesome logicizing. It is the result of
a studious and premeditated anaesthetizing on the part
of those who have connived the control of press, screen,
and radio, that no serious movement may oust them
from their dominance.
Sooner or later the true American, and the disgruntled
Christian, are going to find this out. At the present time
it only goes to prove that the man in the street does not
logicize; he merely utilizes his pensive moments in
imaginings and "thinks he thinks," and small blame
attaches to him.
Leadership, however, under these conditions is so easy
that it is pitiable. Yet the American rises up fiercely
when arraigned for lack of discernment in picking out
his leaders.
By some weird, unaccountable process, he anticipates
that because the nation is not headed by a king. and his
satraps, because a sort of parlor anarchy prevails in the
86
__, ..·.-~ -~
enforcement of petty statutes, that a profound wisdom
without eyes, ears, or reasoning apparatus will issue
Minerva-like from the Jovian forehead of the body
politic, and show itself as racial savior in every dis-
tressful circumstance.
Most of which is silly.
Forms of government do not bring leadership. Theories
of existence do not make for professorships of doctrine.
C][ You cannot have a nation of leaders so long as the
man in the street is dependent on his federal adminis-
tration or his ward political machine to furnish him
with brains.
\Vas it not Carlyle who wrote: Given a hundred scala-
wags, how to make them a group of honest men? And
I believe his answer was: That a common idealism de-
sired by each rogue for his own permanence of person
and practice of roguery would effect a system of com-
munal righteousness resembling something like honesty
among them.
But this, like a great many other expositions in theory,
is only one-half true.
You get righteousness, not by fear that survival may
be affected, but by each man ultimately coming to see
that his own welfare is contingent on, and concurrent
with, the equal welfare of those around him.
It is my conviction that man makes progress as an in-
dividual, or as a group, only as those around him are
moving in harmony with him. He cannot think of him-
self as apart from his forest of human trees. He is not
87
b
!. ;_'
1
t:
I
l
the exponent of himself but of the mass. He must have
the presentiment that only as he represents the group
or the mass in his own instincts and capacities can he
survive as an entity.
I do not mean by this that he must whittle his instincts
and capacities down to any level of the herd. I mean
that he must perfect his individuality by subconsciously
thinking at all times socially.
He must stand out from the mass for his valiant think-;
ing in terms of the mass.
Many men assume that because they are peculiar unto
themselves they are peculiar unto the body politic-
which is not only error but manifest jest. People are
people in that they have similar interests while at the
same time having individual tastes and expressions of
character-not that they are different as creations of
spirit~ ~
Again we go back to our analysis of man in terms of
the forest. Certain trees a:Fe meant to give backbone to
the forest, as the shag-hickories mentioned. Certain
others are meant to give aesthetic values, as the aspens.
Still others are meant to give utility, as the oaks and the
spruces. Taken collectively, a forest results-potent
with character yet diverse of tendencies. Each needs
the other and the whole is divine.
Life is not a barter of good for evil-or evil for good-
with the hope of extracting a profit on the side of the
ledger representing righteousness. Life is a giving and
taking of Experience-giving of experience to others,
88
taking of experience ourselves ~ ~ - ~ ~
It is premised on the theory that man is present in it to
learn or acquire something which he is lacking-to learn
many things of which he lacks knowledge. And chief
among these is the consciousness that he is not a unit
unto himself, else he might as well be reptile with no
community ties whatever.
Man is on earth to learn purity and unselfishness of
action in relation to his fellows. A hundred rogues may
have a hundred ideals which they think pertinent to
survival, and therefore reach some sort of compromise
under which they may survive. But the big and real
issue between them is: What are we getting out of
roguery that we could not get out of honesty?
In other words, it harks back to the relative merits of
spiritual values. But do you think for a moment that
a hundred rogues are capable of so analyzing them-
selves in their rogueries that they become arbiters of the
destinies of the group? The moment one hundred
rogues start logicizing, they encounter spiritualities.
These at once prohibit them from being rogues if ac-
cepted in Pure Concept.
Rogues are rogues because they are, first of all, ignorant
-just as the man in the street partakes of mediocrity
through lack of universality in contacts with his fellows.
The man in the street knows nothing of universality in
practice else we should have a race of giants, intellectu-
ally and politically. He is a pigmy at analysis, and the
moment he admits it he signs his Magna Charta of
89
social progress. Before he comes to admit it, the big
issue at stake is his lack of cleverness, making itself
manifest in egotism to cover his deficiencies in social
erudition ~ ~
Without this recognition there is no issue.
Mankind stagnant is mankind untroubled by any ques-
tions of social policy, either affecting his own good or
the improvement of posterity. This smacks of plati-
tude, I will admit, and yet I claim it is a platitude so pro-
found that whole nations are engaged in continually
stumbling over it.
Suppose we consider man for a moment as a Thinking
Animal ...
90
THE EIGHTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS - IN-LAW
±,_9 THE EIGHTH DISCUSSION ~
N the first place, what is Think-
ing?
The metaphysician has one ex-
planation, the psychologist
another. The physiologist
drags forth his charts of the
brain and prates of ganglionic
galvanisms. The demagogue
mounts his soap-box and rants
of group consciousness and its effect on current issues.
Are any of these right, or all of them in error? Yes,
what is thinking? What is analysis? What is logic?
When the God of Creation gave the human species a
Mind, did He do it as a prank? Let us consider Thinking
a moment in the light of politics and social benefactions.
f:lJ Thinking is obviously a two-fold phenomenon of the
human consciousness: Reception and Transmission.
From somewhere-and for want of a better term let us
call it the Infinite-the great thinkers of the race get
interpretations of life-practices which they :label Ideas.
They do not evolve these ideas of themselves. They
could not do so, for times without number these ideas
93
~L
t:!,
i
l
t
,.
partake of "inspirations" and are composed of in-
gredients totally foreign to anything within the personal
experience of the so-called "thinker" since his birth.
Consider what this means.
A man propounds a theory of philosophy or govern-
ment. He expounds to his audience-be it neighbor-
hood or a nation-certain principles of conduct with
which he has had no experience in his life. One of
two things must have happened. Either he has had con-
tact with such factors as comprise his argument in some
previous existence, and brought a knowledge of them
into present existence, or he has been told his informa-
tion by authorities outside of-and extraneous to-his
current orbit in mortality.
The human mind is so organized that it cannot con-
ceive .of anything .outside of that which it has sensitorial-
ly observed. On that, psychologists and psychiatrists
agree. Now then, what does this mean but that man
as Man-and Thinker-has either lived previous lives
when such factors comprised a part of his experiencing,
or he must admit the existence of conscious entities who
supply him with ideas.
The theory that the "association of ideas" gives birth to
new ideas, falls down in abstract Logic. The spiritual
logician-which the common man is not-knows that
there are no such things as "new ideas." All ideas, con-
sidered as such, have existed since the commencement
of the Absolute, and will go on to infinity.. Revelation
of their existence is not creation. Everything has always
94
existed in Thought, else Thought itself would have its
limits ~ ~
Thought has no limits.
The "thinker" therefore, is not a creator but an uncov-
erer. Or putting it conversely, he is the receiver of en-
lightenments that always have been, and always will be,
existent in· Absolute Thought.
If this were not true, then the universe would have be-
gun with the projection of the first man, and man·s
thought would be responsible for the universe. No time
need be wasted on this absurdity.
Billions of planets were in existence long before man
had developed a forebrain and commenced the faculty
of Thinking. The planetary idea in itself demonstrates
a previous idea of a Creator. The idea has to ·come be-
fore the thing that is created. So ideas in themselves
are timeless, ageless. If this were not so, and if the
human mind were the creator of ideas, there would be
no limit to its concoctions. There would be as many
different kinds of universes as there were people to
conceive of them~ Instead, the human mind-even
in evolving new hypotheses-follows well-defined
grooves, and works with the same mechanical exhibit.
Its products may vary in external aspects, but the basic
principles underlying them are the same today as they
were in the time of Plato, or in the days of Chaldean
necromancers ~ ~
If man could create his own ideas, would not each age
originate so fantastic an assortment of collapsible errors
95
that there would be no end to the intellectual confusion?
fJf Instead of which, I repeat, we have the phenomenon
of the human mind operating consistently after a pat-
tern throughout all ages, creating-in the popular sense
-a more or less consistent and circumscribed ideology.
fJf What can this mean but that "thinking," as such, is a
reception from age to age of increasing revelations of
some Divine Principle of which each generation through
its master intellects gets an expanding interpretation?
fJf Of course the psychologists, ignoring the Great
Source, would define even this hypothesis as birth from
associated ideas. But if the trend of constructive think-
ing is studied-back over fifty or a hundred generations
-a perfect cycle of revelation will be found to have
manifested in each.
A similarity of pattern exists and is pursued. But in
each generation the intellectual cycle swings in a little
wider arc, or rather, encompasses a little finer examina-
tion of truth as before projected.
Thinking then, let us admit in order to get on with our
discourse, is a process of instrumentality and not of'pro-
creation :±!I ~
The mind of the ponderous thinker is a great antenna,
to receive and transform revelations from the Absolute
into programs of mortal action whereby the social body
acts in consistency with a destiny that is prescribed ~
fJf Until we get this clearly, even practical politics is a
childish appeal for callow recognition of the ego.
This too should explain-in a measure-why the man
96
in the street is the tool of politics instead of its arbiter.
His faculties are in process of development. His senses
are clumsy in attuning themselves to the great Reservoir
of Absolute Thought, breaking in waves on the shores
of mortality from the seas of infinity.
The man in the street is not to be pitied, not to be con-
doned with, not to be cajoled, not to be patronized. He
stands on his own two feet as a product of etheric prin-
ciple, asking nothing of the universe but the reception
of experience.
If we hurt his feelings by saying this, he is asking our
indulgence ~ ~
He stands on his own two feet, I say, with his destiny
self-controlled. He can go on getting experience, eating
of the fruit of the Tree of Life and Wisdom, or he can
cease being a man and return into the great ocean of
unawareness of self from which he came in bygone
eons. This is but submission of a self-evident fact,
which science and theology are painfully ascertaining.
fJf Man is not "created" so much as "proj~cted for a
purpose"~~
When he gets that fact straight, he will have made a
long stride in explaining to his own satisfaction the so-
called woes and tribulations with which he now thinks
himself affiicted in the world of mortal flesh.
Man must learn that he has a mission unto himself.
There is a saying that "travel broadens the Mind." The
so-called world-traveler certainly is more efficient unto
himself, and unto society, than the inhabitant of some
97
mountain-locked village. Then why not conceive-in
logic-that physical life is a journey abroad, and that
after a fashion each existence is a country visited for
improvement? ~ ~
No one thinks of resenting the circumstance that he has
not been privileged to visit Paris, Rome, or Vienna, and
is therefore deficient in his character. The assumption
is, that life may eventually be kind enough to permit of
a visit to those cultural centers. Meanwhile one tries
to absorb tbie culture of the community which he in-
habits~~
'1~~~~~~ ARKING back to Politics as a practical
example of these expoundings, suppose
we concede them for the moment and see
what it profits us. Life is a projection by
groups-so to speak. We come into it
. finding ourselves members of a community. That com-
munity has evolved certain rules for the conduct of its
members, having the good of the whole group at heart.
f]f Right there enters practical politics.
Practical politics is the science of enforcing those group
rulings in a manner that arouses least antagonism in
each member of the group!
Just as Ideal Leadership is the shaping of human nature
into a pattern without human nature realizing it, so
politics is the concrete functioning of that leadership-
or in other words, diplomacy in action but individually
expressed ~ ~
98
Mark this, however-
y ou cannot have diplomacy in action without a meas-
ure of response from the individual, since diplomacy is
a form of expediency of conduct when the individual is
reacting to the dictates of his fellows.
The individual, being a conscious living entity, must of
necessity react in some manner. So politics is forever
practical-not abstract.
Politics takes the concrete and obvious reaction of the
individual to the group, and makes it of application to
practical group progress.
It fosters camaraderies for constructive attainment ~
t][ It is Mass Reaction, synchronized!
When man reaches a place where mass reaction
does not require such, he will have attained to such per-
fection that life as we understand it will no longer be
necessary-the earth-plan will have been consummated,
and new avenues of activity, new functions for· indi-
vidual and mass, will be envisaged in other cosmic
localities ~ ~
It is my profound conviction after no little research,
that the day will come finally when this earth-planet
will revert to its original gaseous state. But in that day,
human life will no longer be human. It will have at-
tained to its evolutionary destiny, and politics as Politics
will have become as the mere motion which result
when currents occur in ocean expanses. Mark this well-
The poets of old wrote, "Man goeth to his long
home" ...
99
!\< __
The greatest thinkers have submitted that earthly life is
too imperfect to be permanent.
We are creatures of a Phase of Evolution and the end
is not yet.
This question of Politics therefore, is purely one of
trends. The greatest good for the greatest number is
the motif, consistent with the Cosmic pattern yet help-
ing the individual to help himself.
Candidates for office applying their strategies, lament-
ing their ineffectualities, systems and spoils, bespeaking
their impotencies, . . . these are not Politics.
Neither is Politics the trend of any one system of gov·
ernment, comparing itself with any other system ~
CJ[ It is mass diplomacy exercised on the individual,
making him to recognize his own handicaps-if possible
-but certainly inspiring him to make cultural excur-
sions to Paris, Rome, and Vienna of the Spirit.
On no other basis can Politics be tolerated.
Yet Politics has other definitions and interpretations
that it behooves us to consider if we are to accomplish
an accurate survey of the governmental aspects of our
whole Worldly Residence . . .
Let us, for instance, consider Politics as a science.
100
THE NINTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~·~THE NINTH DISCUSSION ~
E DO not go very far into an
~~,..._.._...,.........,,. inquiry of this sort, before we
discern that Politics is a science
that has inexorable rules under-
lying its application to human
nature.
Science says to human nature:
We have investigated social
phenomena and find that they
resolve into specific principles. Orderly phenomena, by
the way, are termed "scientific," although it does not
follow that proof of any scientific fact, so-called, is
irrefutable, for the science of one age is not the science
of another. Indeed, it may qualify as exactly the op-
posite, in succeeding generations.
But science presupposes order-or duplicate repetition
-in phenomena. It seeks to determine the principles
underlying such. Applying this analysis to Politics, we
find that human nature responds to Politics in set
routines of action.
Thus do we designate Political Science.
Politics is really the science of going about govern-
103
mental business in as orderly and efficient a manner as
the human nature involved will permit.
This may cause a cynical smile to those who recall what
federal politics seems to be doing toiday throughout
America, setting up a vast soviet bureaucracy with
maximum lack of order and efficiency.
But remember that it is never the fault of any science
itself that it is prostituted or even violated. Certainly
Politics as a science does not take anything from human
nature. It does not add anything to man's spiritual side
either, excepting that spirituality is always order and
chaos has no part in it.
~~B~~AYS POLITICS to human nature: You re-
act in definite ways to stimuli of jurisdic-
tion, whether enforced by intellectual lead-
ership, a variety of enticement, or auto-
cratic fiat based on some force. You
always have reacted throughout the age to such stimuli
in orderly and consistent manner that can be relied upon
in every age and under every provocation.
To determine that reaction, its ramifications, its ideals,
and its instinctive objectives, is the "science" of Politics.
«][Now take the practical application:
Men say to themselves: There is no God excepting
Science. They mean by this: That there is no God but
order. In a measure this is true. At least Politics
admits it ~ ~
Men say: Science has been responsible for our progress
104
and endowments; we have achieved what-we have, in
that we are educated. They do not pause to consider
why the education of this generation should be so tre-
mendously ady_anced over those gone before.
Politics says to man: Regardless of ·your progress-
self-taught or not-there is no God of Order in your
affairs excepting as you put Him there yourselves ~
These two facts taken together result in this: A despair-
ing attempt to force a sort of synthetic order on the
social body, to avert the anarchy that would be certain if
every man did as he pleased regardless of his fellows.
From which comes this interesting equation:
When humankind says to itself: "There is no God of
Order or Progress excepting as He is created by our-
selves," it follows that the subterfuge of substituting
Politics for a God of Order is really deifying Politics and
making it the science supreme.
Yet men do not bow down and worship something that
is weaker than themselves.
Order in human nature-or in society-is brought
about by the social mass paying homage to something
that it considers mightier than itself. else men would
forever stay gods in their own right.
Science in this twentieth century therefore, is a sort of
God-considered under such analysis-because Politics
has an effect on the law, order and direction of the
human race paramount to all other social ramifications,
in that it prescribes the "liberties" and the daily com-
ings and goings of each person.
105
So it truly is paramount to every other science ~ .Z.•
Life would be a sorry mess if this were not so, under tpe
present dispensation where votaries of every sort are
being resolved into their basic elements or attributes ~
C]J Strange as the statement may seem, I hold that Politics
-considered from the angle of paramount influence in
human affairs-is the Supreme Science.
This is how I view it-
A thing, or a person, or a government, is only powerful
in so far as it is able to enforce decrees of acquiescence
on an unwilling or recalcitrant opposition. Here we
meet with a strange anomaly: Politics, while being the
Supreme Science and the Paramount Agency, none the
less has no power of itself to enforce its decrees. Politics
cannot run amuck like a phenomenon of Nature, carry-
ing discord and destruction in its wake, compelling
obedience by exertion of blind force. The moment that
it does, it ceases to be Politics and becomes its direct op-
posite: "anarchistic social horseplay" if the term be
allowed. This is1 exactly what has happened in our era
of the present. It is not Politics that is manifesting in
the federal government. Politics truly has become in-
operative as. a science and has been replaced by anarchy
and social nincompoopery. Only the name for this civic
hocus-pocus has been retained.
Politics-in truth-is like the gathering of natural gal-
vanisms that results in electric storms. That which is
generated by such assembly is terrific in its power but
has little meaning otherwise.
106
We have a "science" therefore, for the moment, made
up of rules and regulations for-and of-human con-
duct, whose power is derived as a result of that conduct
and yet originating in it, too. \
If we will not concede Politics to be a science on this
basis, it becomes undefinable, a phenomena without
elucidation ~ ~
Politics says to the race: "I am your servant as well as
your God. I serve you as well as rule.. The minute I
serve you not, I cease to be your ruler. The minute I
cease to rule, therein I no longer serve you."
This is debatable from the logician's standpoint Never-
theless it has a basis in fact.
Too long have we thought of Politics as the huckster-
ings of office, the rantings of demagogues, the blind
acquiescence of peoples swayed by prejudices and fears.
CJJ Politics is nothing of the sort. It is divine in its es-
sence, in that it has a legitimate place in humanity's
affairs, in that it brings order out of chaos, in that it
simplifies our living, lubricates the social machinery,
and supplies the race with leaders-or rather, furnishes
the opportunities for real leaders to display their qual-
ities of leadership.
Politics is an anathema only to the mavericks in human
society who resent discipline and show a careless and
ofttimes criminal disregard respecting the rights of
others~~
When Politics says, "This you must do for the good of
the mass," it is but subjugating the untempered, undis-
107
ciplined will of the individual. It says, "You must do
this or that," because of the peculiar construction of the
pristine human force. This force is always manifesting
introspectively, or egocentrically-an introvert phe-
nomenon of consciousness. It is saying, "Unless there
be obedience by all factions, there is destruction of my-
self, whereat I cannot serve.''
However adolescent this platitude may seem, until men
acquiesce to it there is no such thing as a tribe, or a
nation. Mark this well. Kings and legislators are the
puppets of Politics, not its instigators, sponsors, or over-
lords~~
Politics as a science is supreme, else it perishes.
There is no such thing as a quasi-political force. It is
everything or nothing.
Politics says, "I am master, but until ye recognize that
ye are servants of me, I cannot serve you or ·cannot
profit you one jot or tittle. I am ready to benefit you-
generously-but I am a jealous taskmaster and demand
blind obedience. I come and go in your daily affairs,
always the overlord of everything you do. I effect a
control of your spiritual ideals as well as physical move-
ment, manifesting in social compacts all that you desire
to accomplish for your race. Unless you act together
there is dissolution and discord, but if you do so act
obstruction is dismissed."
This is most important in the success of any project,
either public or private. Politics becomes more than a
force wheri' it is defined as a spiritual ideal exhibiting in
108
action. It becomes, itself, creator. And while force
may be required for creation, force is not creation itself
but creation manifesting, applied to human business ~
C]l Politics as an ideal is very beautiful, figured as a
creative as well as functioning energy.
But let us go further-
The Science of Politics dictates that man will respond
unerringly to certain stimuli, as a natural law is obeyed
by water on a hilltop, running to the bottom.
Politics says to the race, ..You believe as yet in no God
that tells you how and when to come and go for your
personified good, yet you know such discipline is es-
sential. Therefore you invite me among you to sub-
stitute for that Deity in daily social intercourse."
Politics says further, ..I function on one condition:
namely, that I be rendered implicit obedience by the
majority and therefore effect one hundred percent
servitude" ~ ~
\
Politics says still further, "Except ye be complacent to
my dictates, I cannot function aptly."
Right there abuses enter, which we shall presently dis-
cuss. First let us take Politics as a thing of votarian
regard, as well as an orderly science, and s~e what it
consists of, how it functions, and what are its principles
in action, making it a Science. . . .
109
/
THE TENTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
THE TENTH DISCUSSION
AKE an apple and place it
·~~~Ell~~ll.l.+J on the table. You tip the table
and the apple rolls off. So
long as the supporting forces
about the apple are evenly
distributed by the tabletop, the
apple meets no mishap. Tip-
ping the table, you break the
balance of those supporting
factors. The heavier overcome the lighter, or the
greater the lesser.
The apple rolls to a hole in the floor. It is bruised and
maybe lost. Thereby it ceases to exist for the one who
would have consumed it.
The analogy is perfect in the matter of Politics.
Certain supporting forces must be in balance in Politics,
or Politics ceases to supply service to the race. Again
I refer to the federal government and declare that
exactly this thing has happened in Washington of the
present fJI Men rant of ..the pol~tics going on in the
Capitol." What they truly mean to say is "the absence
of politics going on in the Capitol...
113
r'
'
The play of these forces, one on the other, is irrefutable
so long as Politics sits in the seat of mass control.
The apple on the tabletop did not move toward vanish-
ment, or even toward damage, until one set of forces
had outweighed the other. And this play of Force
against Force in politics can be studied and assayed . . .
It marks an epoch in the study of Politics when the man
in the street comes to realize its function in human
activity~~
Politics has an errand unto the human race, and the
sooner that errand is known and rightly understood, the
quicker will be the social housecleaning, and the sooner
will humanity be the master in its own house without
the annoying and derogatory effects on character, of
cluttering debris filling every room where living might
be clean and beautiful.
Politics says to the onlooker in the street: "Behold you
are mortal, with inherent weaknesses and falsities main-
taining from your animalistic evolution. You have a
mind that is Godlike in that it conceives improvement
abstractly, but it lacks the power of abstract analysis to
determine how to act with your fellows and accomplish
your destiny toward which, and on which, your race
has designs. As a unit you are weak. As a mass you
are indomitable. Consider unification therefore, as an
enhancement to power.
The onlooker says: "I can see that what you say is true,
for I observe about me the strength that lies in coopera-
tion, manifested in concrete result."
114
This recognition and admission are the first tenet, or
principle, rendering Politics a science. From the days
of the caveman, humankind has acquiesced to the. rec-
ognition that two men can do more than one, that one
thousand can accomplish what ten would find impossi-
ble. That is a law as inexorable as the fiat of any
Median prince.
To continue, Politics says: "Look about you, Mr.
Average Man, and perceive that ten men working to-
gether accomplish nothing of permanence unless their
efforts be coordinated. This is simple mathematics ap-
plied constructively to social phenomena. One man is
powerful, two are twice as powerful, ten men are ten
times as powerful as one, but only so as the ten men
operate with the one mentality. Ten men operating
with ten mentalities are merely ten men operating as
I
ten individuals, or one individual operating in ten man-
ifestations which may or may not be similar in effect.
Given the one mind, however, ten men or ten thousand
men but enhance the purpose of the one ten times or
ten thousand times."
This mathematical calculation is based on Energy, and
Energy itself is in essence the Ultimate Divinity in con-
crete or materialistic action. You cannot conceive of
Energy without conceiving of the divine, no matter what
its form of employment. Thus you have further evi-
dence of divinity shaping true Politics, and making it
a divine as well as a supreme social science. However,
to resume our point on mathematics
115
If that purpose or tenet be universal of truth in its ap-·
plication to the ten thousand as well as the one, the idea
or the action has the strength of the ten thousand, for
the one. This is the second fundamental law codifying
the phenomenon of Politics into a concrete science. For
right there enters the factor crudely termed Leadership.
fJf Leadership is the miracle of ten minds, or ten thou-
sand minds, functioning as one mind in ten or ten thou-
sand bodies. For Mind is not Function. Mind is the capac-
ity to determine the Ideal. Function is the capacity to
attain the Ideal.
So Politics lays down this second fundamental principle:
..We must have one mind to determine the Ideal, but
ten, or ten thousand, complementing entities, applying
their unit forces throughout every field to bring the
Ideal to realization. I make this possible for you by
typifying in one specific mind, that which is conceded
by ten thousand minds. The leader therefore is not a
fanatic capable of encompassing ten thousand minds
to grasp control. His is the objective of ten thousand
minds, epitomized in·one mind. He represents a Trend.
And according as he represents it accurately, men say
in effect, 'If we concede that this human epitome is rep-
resentative in thought of that which all of us perceive
consciously or unconsciously, then let us ignore the con-
flicts raised.by our ten thousand mentalities squabbling
over details and apply ourselves physically to the action
which brings about attainment.' ••
This is nothing more nor less than Parsimony in Na-
116
tural Effort, and Parsimony of Natural Effort may be
relied upon as accurately as any of the laws of physics
determining the behavior of Matter.
Herein, therefore, is the second tenet of the social-·-and
divine-science called Politics: Man will manifest in
conjunction with his fellows for ·a common attainment
when he is satisfied that one mind in his group or na-
tion typifies the objective of the mass. He may not al;.
ways recognize this consciously or analytically, but ac-
knowledge it he does instinctively, and it is an inexor-
able and irrefutable premise for our discourse.
Politics as such cannot be considered in any other light
than as a gesture of the mass to work out its racial in-
stincts. And those racial instincts may be considered in
the light of racial, or prenatal, memories of how social
matters have worked out previously in practice as noted
by the individual who has many times manifested as a
unit of the mass. It all harks back constantly to organ-
ization on organization, effected through untold mil·
lenniums and given pattern of a sort by some Supreme
Master Mind which men are soon to realize is the Christ
Force overlording all sciences and all laws. More of
this later.
There is a third tenet of political science which is no less
vital to our thesis and which should now be considered
as a potent contribution. . . .
Mankind recognizes that within: the mass of ten thou-
sand minds there are factors that need eliminating be-
fore any real progress can he made by the mass. These
f 17
factors originate in what we call Provincialisms. They
decree that men react to certain .environments in cer-
tain positive ways, and that. as all environments cannot
be alike so mankind must find the common denominator
amid all environments, in order to accept as class bene-
factions those which distinguish the greater number
with the greatest enhancements for physical or tempera-
mental profit.
Taken on this basis, life is a sifting of all the factors en-
tering into the environment and a choosing for the race,
of those factors which make up the ideal environment
for maximum enhancement. Taken on this basis, too,
life is a mass determination of all the factors entering
into it and the selection of. those which perform the
broadest benefits for the greatest numbers. Let us
therefore arrive at our Third Tenet making of Politics
a positive science . . .
Life says to the individual: "Contribute of your envir-
onment that which is best in it as you believe that you
have found it. Do not be dogmatic about it. Hold
yourself open to a consideration of the other fellow's
suggestions. Contribute and examine and decide, but
having decided, adhere to the composite ideal."
Strange to say, men will do this. They will quickly rec-
ognize faults and discrepancies in their own environ-
ments and concede that which to them seems the better
because of such recognition of factors in the other man's
environment. Given ten thousand men from ten thou-
sand environments, there willbe ten thousand contribu-
t18
tions of that which is best and worst in them ~ ~
On this basis the Leader Mind will epitomize and en-
hance the ideal environment, projecting it ahead of the
mass as a shibboleth of id~alization and attainment.
What therefore does he do~ He makes of ten thousand
contradictory environments-with their effects on ten
thousand characters-a composite environment put to-
gether from all that is best in each. This composite en-
vironment so put together, is nothing short of the
"Utopia" of which so much is said in political philoso-
phy. And the leader analyzes f~r him who is unable
to analyze, how this may be attained or approximated
in practice. He does not attempt to coerce the ten thou-
sand; saying "Get hence and seize it I" He says "Yon-
der it is . . . go forward and embrace it!"
119
~Z?~~!lOW THERE is a Fourth Tenet, more vital,
more significant and more enduring than
any of the three which we have men-
tioned, and that must be the "coordinating
influence" over the foregoing three. Yet
it must be more than a coordinating influence; verily
it must be an epitome of the three. That is the recogni-
tion that there is in humankind something that makes
for social cohesion, something that says to man "If you
do not act collectively, you perish!" This would seem
for the moment to be expounding our First Tenet on a
larger canvas, and perhaps it is. Yet it operates so dif-
ferently in practice that it becomes a tenet of itself.
Man says, "We have need of cohesion. We know that
cohesion as cohesion advances our attainments in exact
ratio to the numbers of us involved. We admit that he
is leader among us who best represents our collective
thought and holds before us our collective cognition of
the Utopian Principle." But man says more: "We rec-
ognize something else as well. We recognize that some-
where, somehow, man has a destiny that is not clear
to us in our present circumstantial observation. We
know that we are not mere earth-creatures like the beasts
or the birds, full of physical antics and made to parade
before Cosmic Intelligence as human mountebanks. We
are evolving towards something. That something, that
end and aim, may be the Unknowable at present. But
over and beyond1
and farther than our present assump-
tions and observations, Something beckons us. What
120
is it? Where is it? Whence comes it? Will we ever
approach or enter it? These questions constitute the
foundation stones of all history, all ethics, all religions,
all altruistic objectives conceived by the Race Mind.
That acknowledgment by man that there is something
vaster and more potent in his earthly career for experi-
ence than he can conceive in his present limitations, is
the adamant rock-floor on which· the whole social struc-
ture is reared and on which Politics as an exact science
can be premised.
Let us get this and get it soundly.
Man has within himself the Call to an Attainment great-
er than anything ·else within his concept. Recognition
of that is fundamental in his nature. Therein is he de-
marked from the beast and every other form of organic
life. He sees there is more to the universe than he com-
prehends. He sees there is more to himself than he
can analyze with his mortal equipment. He fears the
Unknowable, therefore, not understanding what it will
do to him or how he can treat with it.
Premised as deeply as hardpan and bedrock in the con-
struction of his nature, is solidarity ~f action when con-
fronting the Unknowable! The strongest and most po-
tent force which can be brought to bear on human na-
ture, or which can be utilized out of it, is the force of this
recognition and man's reaction to it.
Given ten thousand men, you have ten thousand areas
or fields of personal panic when confronting the Un-
knowable. Politics has for its Fourth and greatest Tenet,
121
therefore, this fruition: That out of the confronting of
the Unknowable comes the desire for protection from it,
and this desire takes the form of the assurance that if
all his fellows suffer equally, the suffering will be divid-
ed and apportioned in exact ratio to the numbers in-
volved. One man's crucifixion is terrible, when con-
templated by ten thousand men who will know no cruci-
fixion. But ten thousand men, certain of crucifixion,
will go toward the ordeal with a song in their hearts-
as they have done within our own generation on the
battlefields of France. By the same token, they will
condone and endure a great public lechery or corrup-
tio:n, saying "After all, we're in it together; it can be
no worse for me than for ten thousand others."
Politics recognizes this and utilizes it as its very essence.
We give it various names. We call it Mob Psychology,
Human Inertia, Moribund Recognition of Destiny,
Capacity for Suffering-any of a hundred concepts that
stand for pain divided. Great marplots, like those ex-
orcising humanity at present in the economic way, rest
their whole strategy of success Upon the infallibility of
this manifestation of group or national psychology.
Now this has a fundamental cause and premise not to
be ignored. It is not that the individual primarily wants
to see his brother suffer, or that fellow-suffering actually
mitigates personal agony. No, the basic reason for hu-
manity's feeling a sense of protection when all suffer,
lies in the fact~that the individual essentially fears ex-
tinction of his species. Mark that! And so he feels
122
that personal blundering resulting in pain may be· a re-
tribution, or castigation of himself as an individual ign~
ramus. But when ten thousand men suffer equally, he
feels that he is not being punished for individual trans-
gression or personal stupidity. He i~ but a unit in some
universal gesture, having as its end and attainment a
destination in the Unknowable.
In other words, the individual feels in the individual
case of pain or punishment that he has misinterpreted
some law of Nature or ethics, but when ten thousand
men go over into the chasm he knows a relief in his self·
indictment; the Unknowable must comprise a plan hav-
ing as its essence the plunging of the ten thousand into
the abyss, that at the bottom rare treasure may be
found although it be gathered in the discarnate state.
I think this is clear.
This desire to escape individual indictment is as funda-
mental and inherent in human nature as the breathing
of air is to physical sustenance. Coming down to Poli-
tics therefore, what have we but the same exposition
applied to social compacts?
The individual becomes political the moment he attains
to earthly consciousness, in that he recognizes the Un-
knowable in both Nature and human nature. In the
face of the Unknowable he says to himself, "I may be
wrong in my discernments, but ten thousand of my
fellows cannot be wrong in their disc;:ernments. There-
fore if I act with them, I am relieved from personal
responsibility ~ ~
123
From such fundamental reasoning grows all human
progress, all social cohesion.
This We must recognize: Politics is the science of hu-
man natures acting enmasse for a given objective, either
governmental or social, in the sense of environmental
benefits. Politics says: "I am your God, elected to show
you the Promised Land of Mundane Enjoyment. Liv-
ing in that Promised Land may bring celestial oppor-
tunities, possibilities, and further spiritual conquests.
But to reach that Promised Land is the objective of our
practical endeavor. So then, if you will abide by my
dictates I will weld you into a compact phalanx whose
advance through the wilderness of error and doubt and
social confusions will be irresistible."
Politics says: "Except as ye pay heed to that which is
inherent in your natures as men, you can have neither
concept of the Promised Land, mental leadership to
traverse the wilderness successfully, nor benefaction in
the form of mass cohesion to enjoy it, if, as and when
obtained" ~ ~
So men, knowing instinctively these inherent factors
in their natures, accord Politics a place in human affairs
that cannot be occupied by any other Deity.
But Politics is always practical. Therefore it is often
termed gross and perhaps sensual in its functionings.
Think of it, however, in this light-
Politics is mass spirituality interpreted in terms of real-
isms~~
It seeks no grandiose attainments that are outside men's
124
concepts, but it does make, insofar as it is permitted,
mass concepts realizable. When that is firmly ground-
ed in mass consciousness, Politics becomes ennobled
and fulfills its true office in the affairs of men.
Having arrived at this point in our consideration of the
Mundane Predicament, let us turn for a time to a con-
sideration of Law-and specifically Constitutional Law
-as an interpretation of man's spiritual evolution on
this planet. For Constitutional Law, as such, has a fing-
er in this pie of Political Discussion, a very large finger
that cannot be ignored . . .
125
THE ELEVENTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~THE ELEVENTH DISCUSSION~
0 BEGIN with, what is Consti-
ll~~,,....,115A~•.....a tutional Law and how does it
-
differ from any other form of
law? ~· To answer these ques-
tions, let us go back for a mo-
ment and think of our Fourth
Equation in the political hy-
pothesis. ~ We have said that
Politics is a sort of mass action
toward survival, expressed in terms .of governmental
agency having as its purpose the attainment of the Un-
knowable. But there must be some Cause and Effect
operating by which men know themselves as vehicles
for the political principle in progressive movement. The
order of that Cause and Effect, their influence on think-
ing and behaviorism, their results in social deportment,
should and indeed may be classed in significance with the
divine principle which first brought concord out of pri-
mordial Chaos.
As we are accustomed to conceive of that concord in
terms of positivisms, and as those positivisms are sub-
ject to analysis and classification else they would not be
129
positivisms, we give the name "laws" to such rendi-
tions, and as such we know them.
But there is another and higher form of such concords
that concerns the intrigues of Spirit. Or in other words,
there are expressions of the Divine Principle of Order
that appertain expressly to humanity as humanity, which
we collect and disburse as ~andates having the nomen-
clature of Statutory Laws. And when taken collective-
ly, that is, as a performance and not as a-single act, we
get the aphorism, Constitutional Law.
For it is an aphorism, when we truly consider it. There
is no such' thing as Constitutional Law, considered in the
abstract. We have made certain rules and regulations
for human conduct, and the manufacture of these as
entities in philosophic thought must have a designation.
Thus do we speak of Constitutional Law as though it
were a "thing" whereas Constitutional Law is really a
u condition''-I was almost going to say an emotional
collectivism, for nine-tenths of our so-called laws are
but externalized emotions, silly vengeances on this
caste or that, with no premise in equity or permanent
benefaction. Which is why they give us so much tribu-
lation~~
Constitutional Law then, is all law legalized and ren-
dered in terms of common undertaking. It is a /proces-
sion of various inhibitions on society, that have for their
purpose the regulation of conduct. Of present years and
especially in America, Constitutional Law has come to
mean a code of ethics set up by the governed to regulate
130
behavior as between man and man, but, when taken
in the abstract, confused with pure government. It is
nothing of the sort. It is merely an arm or organ of
government, and when we consider it as a social vitality
it has no greater significance than the enforced preserva-
tion of certain fields of action called "liberties"-which
considered from any angle, practical or philosophical,
are a jest of highest order.
Not that we wish to enter an investigation and analysis
of "liberties" at this juncture. We will take the term
in its popular meaning and consider Constitutional Law
as a sort of Alma Mater of these ironical prerogatives.
What is the function of Constitutional Law, considered
in the light of general behavior, and particularly mass
behavior, in the attainment of objectives? . . .
Bfa~~~T IS universally conceded, I think, that
Constitutional Law is the bulwark of the
liberties of man only as those who live
under it esteem those liberties. We are get-
ting onto important terrain here, whereon
stalk many of the befouling beasts that are pulling Great
America down to imminent ruin.
Constitutional Law is not for everyone, or every race,
merely because they happen to be born under it!
There are types and temperaments that have no part
or parcel in so-called "human rights" even under Con-
stitutional Law, even the fundamental or "common
law" of nations. They are inherently lawless, though
131
they know it not. They live under some form of Con.:
stitutional Law, perhaps, because they were born under
it or permitted to enter the land where it prevails, but it
means no more to them than merely living under so
many trees. And just as there are people who cannot
live among trees without instinctively wanting to fell
them that the landscape may be changed, so these in~
herently lawless natures agitate for Change and call it
''Freedom," "Equality,'' the "Brotherhood of Man'' ~
The fundamental law prescribes that man should live at
peace with his neighbor in order that both may survive,
no matter how many forms of law there may be. This
is the great and essential theme behind all law. Law is
peace! Peace is law! The moment there is no peace
there is likewise no law, no matter how many statutes
or limitations on human conduct may be in existence.
Law is law only as peace is Peace. They canpot be con:..
sidered separately. There is no such thing, by this
token, as "laws governing war." As well try to talk of
"peace governing warfare" . . .
Rules and regulations are not laws.
Great is the confusion in the public mind upon this
point. Laws are the fundamentals of peace. The
greater the fundamentals, the greater the peace. You
cannot have laws without" having peace, as I have said
before, and Constitutional Law is constitutional peace!
(jf When the forefather~ought the American nation
out of a chaos of individual ideas, they established eel""
tain principles as being the consensus of opinion of
132
those governed., as to how they should be governed.
They decided that mankind had various "rights.. which
the world was bound to respect-meaning themselves,
to themselves, as included in that-;;.orld. They knew
that they were beset with wildernesses of chaotic think-
ing on both sides of the Atlantic. They knew that they
had blundered in the past on both sides of the Atlantic.
They knew that the world was struggling toward some
sort of expression in government, and for want of a
better name they called this envisaged civic attainment,
··ube t ••
r y ..•
It was no more liberty than chaos was liberty, for per-
fect liberty would have been an untrammeled, uncir-
cumscribed life in the wilderness of American forest
where every man was a law unto himself. Perfect
Liberty then, was a shibboleth under which each man
groped for some sort of ideal in government which
would cure the ills of oppression, not give him blanket
license to do as he chose in each individual case. The
hardest thing which the forefathers had to learn by suf-
fering and privation, and the events of circumstance,
was that Law as law had to be recognized and that there
was no such thing as Liberty in its literal sense. When
you have true liberty you have a state or case in society
where man recognizes his own individual limitations-
not his lack of them. You have a state or case where
man chooses of his own volition to live with and for his
fellows, instead of against them. As Elbert Hubbard
often expressed it, "One man's liberty ends where
133
another's right begins." Liberty recognizes this: That
man is a social animal only within certain bounds and
regulations, and that when he exceeds those bounds he
automatically cuts ·himself off from something in the
mass that makes for individual peace of mind and heart.
Liberty as such is Peace Incarnate expressed through the
circumspect behavior of each human unit making up
the body politic. On no other basis can Liberty function
as a social force.
Liberty is every man's right to be himself within a field
of force that does not turn in on him and circumscribe
him because it begins to injure or circumscribe others.
t]l" Liberty in its .popular sense, or as it is interpreted by
alien demagogues from abroad, is anarchy-for anarchy
is not wanton destruction as so many people carelessly
think, but the idealism of perfect personal expression
independently of every other person. There can be no
such thing as anarchy anywhere in the universe, be-
cause there can be no such thing as personal expression
independently of every other person. Expression as
such is always dependent on those around one. Thus a
man on a desert island is denied all personal expression-
which must not be confounded with physical function.
He is a social nonentity in the fullest sense of the word.
Those who would live on. desert islands in the midst of
society are the true anarchists, and. the thought is ab-
horrent to society in general because society recognizes
the thought as unworkable.
Avarice and greed are not the antonyms of anarchy
134
but its syntheses, because anarchy recognizes only the
personal dictates-never the group dictates-and man
cannot exist as man without taking cognizance of the
group. His very essence precludes originality of thought
and act. We will return to this point later.
So then, under a closer analysis, what is this thing popu-
larly termed Constitutional Law? What but that prin-
ciple which says to society: "You havei in your basic
natures, considered as individuals massed in the group,
inhibitions and group fixations which make living unto
yourselves a social abhorrence. You know of no way
of living unto yourselves exclusively." On that vital
recognition rests all the law of the ages. On that vital
recognition, too, rests Constitutional Law as we have
hitherto defined it, in its well-nigh perfect form. For
Constitutional Law says: "You as men and women
must recognize that Law is peace and order, and peace
and order dictate that all men shall find a way to com-
pose their differences. These differences are anarchy
in its purest form... Therefore Constitutional Law is
and ever must be, the antithesis of anarchy. Constitu-
tional Law is and ever must be, an aim not at greater
freedom for the individual, hut greater scope for the
exercises of the individual's program of self-expression
in his relation to the group.
And right here we come back to Politics.
Politics enters this situation and says: "You must go a
step further and find a way to interpret this construe..
tional theme of law in terms of practical expression
13S
for the man in the street." Politics is therefore not
only the handmaiden of Constitutional Law but its in-
strument of expression. Constitutional Law is de-
pendant on Politics more than Politics in dependant on
Constitutional Law. The theme may seem interwoven
but its factors are not.
When you have a problem in physics to solve, you first
find a premise in the factors involved, chemically or
materially. When you have a complication in religion
to unsnarl, you accept the spiritual factors and look for
your answer in spiritual values. But when you have a
problem in ethics such as Politics or Law, too many
people are prone to depart wholly from both factors,
and the premises of the factors, and seek the solution in
values foreign to the nature of the quandary.
Law is peace. Let that stand defined. Politics there-
fore might be called "an interpretation of Peace to in-
dividuals forming the group." In practice, however, it
is anything but that. Politics in practice is a jumble of
petty theories and demagoguery, to say nothing of
monetary self-advantage, crammed down the throats of
a gullible populace that cannot understand the tenets of
either Constitutional Law or its relationship to Politics
to begin with.
Now let us take Constitutional Law as conceived in
practice by the forefathers in idealty, and see where a
brief analysis of it takes us, especially in terms of today's
political systems-or lack of them I
136
THE TWELFTH DISCUSSION
' ' -~- ;; ~. ""' ,. , - " "' • - '?''
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~ THE TWELFTH DISCUSSION ~
..,...,......_......,,.,.,..... HE forefathers did not con-
ceive of Constitutional law as
chaotic personal liberty but as
alternative to foreign despot-
isms and the manners thereof,
particularly as they affected
personal property fJI It was
never thought that Constitu-
tional Law should be a bulwark
against all other forms of law. Law being peace in
its essence, there can be as many forms of law as there
are phases of peace-not phases of pacifications but
conditions within the group under which self-expres-
sion within the group is possible without injurious
bellicosities ~ ~
You cannot have real Law without having peace. That
is an established and self-evident fact. So you cannot
have real peace without "real law," as l have said be-
fore. But you can have peace, or lack of it, as a factor
in Law without law as peace being in any wise disturbed.
fJI I refer to those conditions where Constitutional Law
ceases to function, and groups attempt at times to se-
l39
cede from it. They may be successful.in their secession
or they may not, but unless they are orderly and peace-
ful even in the act of secession, they accomplish no last-
ing benefit and the secession fails by virtue of the very
chaos which it first set out to remedy.
Constitutional Law is primarily the admission by the
governed that they have aims in society, or the social
state, .demanding fulfillment each toward the other.
Men recognize these aims and purposes the moment
they become sufficiently enlightened to protect them-
selves against despotism and its evils. But the moment
t~ey secede from despotism, they have the greater tyran-
ny of anarchy confronting them if they do not at once
set up certain forms of despotism that are in their na-
tures orderly.
The theory of Constitutional Law then, is despotism
without the despot!
It is instruction without the instructor.
It is might without force.
It is man's foreordained recognition that the group has
demands on its members which must somehow be ex-
pressed in terms of coercion or the group as a group
will no longer exist.
It is government without authority until the authority
acquires a club.
The group says to its members: "Accept the tyranny
of your own obligation each unto the other, acknowl-
edge it and abide by it, or be utterly routed and destroyed
by the Idealism which sacrifices the group to the individ-
140
ual, who in turn cannot exist without the group in the
practicalities of living."
Constitutional Law prevails on the individual, through
the group, to accept group dictates. . The group chafes
and resents-even as the individual chafes and resents
--any form of discipline, being inherently independent
as a phase and process in. its evolving self-awa::reness.
No matter! The group· is paramount to the individual
because the individual cannot exist without the group.
Group law therefore, is inherently· Constitutional Law
with or without its despot as synthesis!
Constitutional Law makes of the individual a contribut-
ing member of the group. It is based upon the indi-
vidual's contribution to the group in the form of ac-
knowledgment that the group must have a foreordained.
plan of expression or perish likewise before the rapacity
of its members for individualism. · This is involved; yet
its cognition should be clear.
You cannot have a group without members. Because
of this, you cannot have members without the self-ap-
plication among them of the tenets of Constitutional
Law~~
Constitutional Law is a binding together of recalcitrant
human factors into the group recognition that peace
must be realized with the minimum of effort arid ex-
penditure of social energy. It may be written law or
not, according to the erudition of the group. But it is
always admitted and acknowledged law, based on the
desire for group accomplishment.
141
, /
I
-(
t.ri~2~3 HE FACT that the American colonists
wrote out an elaborate Constitution was
merely a phase of their condition, not so
much an accomplishment in itself. They
had need of a complicated elaboration of
what they termed their Constitution because their group
interests were so varied and incompatible. It is not
heresy to say that the American colonists drew up no
model Constitution. It was in reality the construction
and interpretation placed from time to time on their
written and accredited Constitution as the group pro-
gressed in intelligence and recognition. of its need-one
division toward the other-that has resulted in its great-
ness~~
Yoti cannot have a Constitution without support. Other-
wise it is merely a lettered document. Only as the col-
onists increasingly realized their interdependence-and
gave birth to interpretations of their Constitution befit-
ting evolutionary circumstance-did the American peo-
ple arrive at a final system of government that meant
freedom from old-world tyrannies.
This process is still going on. Their Constitution is still
in the making, considered on this basis.
The American Constitution is not a law of the Medes
and Persians but a system of self-adjusting group reac-
tions to increasing social complications!
The trouble in present-day America is not a recognition
of the flexibility or inflexibility of the Constitution but
bolder and more insolent disregard of it, or subtle lead-
142
ership away from it. Strategic aliens or their progeny,
engineering such, are inherently lawless in their make-
up and certainly nonsocial in their expression, or they
would perceive into what racial dangers it conducts
them as a faction.
Calling anything Constitutional merely because it is
legalized by a heterogeneous mass of politicians or. ap-
proved by representatives of the aforesaid lawless ele-
ments, sitting in places of judicial performance, is de-
feating the ends of Constitutionalism which the Consti-
tution itself was set up to venerate. Sooner or later
the reprisals must swing in, for what is being interpreted
as Constitutional flexibility is really outside the Consti-
tutional spirit and is an unmistakable aspect of anarchy.
The Constitution is a pliable instrument having as its
essence the will of the governed, to be governed, and
expressing the manner in whith such government shall
be accomplished.
This second stipulation is quite as important as the first.
fJl The Constitution provides for certain inalienable
rights indeed, but they are flexible rights none the less.,
always bearing in mind that the rights of one generation
can conflict with the rights of the next. Thus a man
imprisoned for debt in one generation may say that it
is his inalienable right to be forgiven his debts and be
set at liberty by a bankruptcy act. But a situation may
arise in another generation where bankruptcy may be-
come so widespread that it undermines all honesty and
needs a drastic curb. Would it therefore be an "inalien-
143
~~ '-
' .
'~ - -
!
: r=
able." right for all men to be forgiven their debts-per-
haps made with no intent to pay them-simply because
it happens to be written in the Constitution? The group
might suddenly discern that its perpetuation demanded
a relinquishment of this so-called "inalienable right,"
to enforce honesty on vast numbers of its members.
Amnesty from debt-paying would be quickly terminated
-and rightly so-illustrating the point that all rights
are not inalienable merely because they have universal-
ity. The same thing might apply to such rights as free-
dom of person, trial by jury, freedom of speech, free-
dom of religion. These "rights" are only inalienable so
long as expression of them enhances and does not dis-
rupt the Group Spirit.
I would not care if a hundred men went to the North
Pole on an exploring expedition, and probably neither
would you.. It is their inalienable right to explore the
polar regions at their pleasure, having (reedom of per-
son. But what if a hundred thousand men decided to
exercise such freedom of person when an incorrigible
enemy was about to attack the gates of their homeland?
Freedom of person would quickly go by the board, as it
does in every nation in time of war.
That is to say again, that freedom is only freedom when
it is exercised in consideration of group welfare. Any-
thing else is pernicious anarchy, denying the very foun-
tainhead from which gush the living waters of human
association making individual expression possible.
It might even do to let a hundred thousand men remain
144
for a while at the Pole, it being entirely possible that
they would not be needed for their homeland's defense.
But what of their obligations on return, to those who
resisted the enemy} Is it truthful to say that one group
has freedom of person at the expense of another group,
deterred from exercising it by some high moral princi-
ple, or scruple, which profits both}
Distinctions are odious.
In the final analysis, all that counts is the welfare of the
group, that all within it may have the equal chance to
survive and enjoy certain rights that belong to them
only as those rights have exact universality among all
members of the groµp.
A hundred thousand men at the North Pole in time of
war at home would be exercising an inalienable right by
alienating themselves from the group that endowed
them with the right-which would not be equity, and
hardly commonsense.
Again, I would not care if a thousand men asked· for
trial by jury, had a thousand murders been committed.
But supposing that murder became so rampant, and
"justice" so venal, that even jurors feared for their lives
and trial by jury became a legal farce. Would it not be
pardonable, and even feasible, for the authorities to
suspend trial by jury, if it clogged the machinery of
effective jurisprudence and threatened the ·group with
extinction through unpunished murder} And the same
applies to a freedom of speech that persuades whole
districts to tear down the government by force, or free-
145
dom of religion that permits atheism to undermine all
faith in God and the moral code. All can be carried to
a point where wolves of disruption, ruin and decay,
stalk order and system, and demand a drastic curbing.
t]f The Group is paramount!
Let us never lose sight of this bed rock fundamental,
since the Group is "social cohesion for individual
sustenance.•• ~ ~
As such, it must be protected. And Constitutional Law
is the literary and social embodiment of such protection
expressed in terms of practical facility.
Constitutional Law is the embodiment of group lon-
gevity for individual sustenance, meriting the support
of both Group and Individual else neither survives.
m;~qli~OW I am quite aware that the Jewish Com-
munist uses the same argument to advance
his doctrines of group cohesion for eco-
nomic gains. He not only would have the
Constitution flexible, but he would have it
in such a state of continuous flux that it merely ex-
presses the popular caprice-if indeed it expresses
anything at all-the popular caprice being of course a
manufactured mass acquiescence to securely ensconced
autocracy ~ ~
As we shall see further on, however, it is not Consti-
tutional flexibility-or rather, adaptability-to meet
changes in year-to-year life, to which we object in the
Jewish program. Our objection to Communism is its
146
I
(
\
character: a satanic reversal and misrepresentation, in
practice, of what it purports to be theoretically.
Affecting to be communal, it is factional and racially
despotic~ ~
It is social regimentation, forcing obedience to the be-
hests of the savage few-a dictatorship of the vilest
order since it makes no real attempt to dictate for the
good of the whole but for the gradual liquidation of
those who oppose its freakish tryrannies.
Better a year of Mussolini or Hitler than an hour of true
Stalinism, for at least the Fascism of the former dictators
is premised on a tac~t inspirational ideal, fecund with
spiritual values. Sovietism is inspirationally spiritual
in hypothesis only.
Stripped of all its garish nomen:clature and posings,
sovietism is the political expedient for liquidating .by
murder or industrial slavery all residents of a country
who are not of Jewish blood or who are not acquiescent
to a Jewish reigning caste.
Let the Hebrews wail as they will, and point to the num-
bers of Gentiles in important executive positions under
sovietism. The facts have it that Bolshevism has been
financed from the start by Hebrews, sponsored by
Hebrews. and controlled and directed by Hebrews in the
places of real power. Bolshevism, Communism, Soviet-
ism-call it what you will, it is in essence the antithesis
of that which it purports to be-one for all and all for
one. The deepest students of the Soviet, not Jews them-
selves, are agreed that it is indeed all for one, and that
147
.... -.,•
I
the one is the Jew. That Jewry and Communism are
synonymous, is a grisly fact which earth•s non-Jewish
peoples must ultimately discover.
Turn from such insidious misapplication of community
principles, to the Protectorate in England under Crom-
well. The rights of Englishmen endorsed for genera-
tions by British spirituality, were being menaced to
extinction by the Papacy and other factions. The British
masses epitomized their inalienable rights in Cromwell,'
and he functioned as Lord Protector until such time as
they could be normally and naturally exercised with the
menace removed.. l maintain that by the recommenda-
tions and definitions already advanced, such was .not a
suspension, much less an abolition, of English Constitu-
tionalism ~ ~
It was Constitutionalism, taking the single-leader form
with a preponderance of the group behind him, in tacit
existence for every moment that the Protectorate en-
dured. We might call it oral instead of written, but it
was probity for the group-interest and worked out
practically ~ ~
Today we may have written Constitutionalism, but it
is intended and applied more for the enhancement of
Jewish autocracy than for the recorded civic sentiments
of freemen, and of .the two, I would prefer the Pro-
tectorate interpretation.
148
THE THIRTEENTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~THE THIRTEENTH DISCUSSION~
_,IL.,_
not jump to the con-
,clusion, however, that be··
cause Constitutional Law is-
or should be-facile of expres~
· sion, that it is always workable.
It is workable only when it re-·
sponds in practice to the social
state under which it is applied.
Thus Constitutional Law is the
backbone of the English monarchical, system and quite
as respectable in its demands on both people and their
times as the American Constitution-too often glor~fied
erroneously in comparison with the first. The one is no
more comprehendable without the Will of the Majority
behind it, than the other. Each fulfills a function.
Harking back to first principles for emphasis: Consti-
tutional Law is popular will made manifest in social
form and expressions, having of paramount interest the
desires of the common run of humanity living under it.
f]f A nation of serfs cannot have, and does not merit, the
Constitutional form demanded and practiced under the
instruction of highly educated and spiritually disciplined
151
,..
tI
freemen. The serfs, not understanding the nature of
their power in freedom, would blund~r into excesses ab-
horrent ·to their more advanced brethren. Equally so,
the freemen could not exist spiritually under the crude
and drastic dictates and fiats necessary to hold a nation
of quasi-animals in some form of social cohesion. This
is no disparagement of either, but a statement of fact
that is borne out by history.
People rarely stop to consider that governmental forms
are not government. Neither are Constitutional forms
always expressive of the highest good merely because
they are Constitutional, or expressive of the majority
will~~·
Constitutional forms usually accrue in very advanced
states of society, a platitude recognized by any school-
boy. Butthe reason why they accrue is too often passed
over-as the Jewish Communist passes them over in the
United States at present.
Constitutional forms are superior to dynastic forms only
in so far as· those living under them are fit to live under
them, meaning that they possess not so much the civic
erudition as the spiritual self-discipline, and temper their
motives with group altruisms not to be found in lower
orders of intelligence.
The Jewish Communist, alien born, comes to America
and agitates for Red tenets, unaware that whereas they
may supply much that his immature soul craves govern-
mentally, it ·by no means follows that native-horn
Christian Americans, raised in the patriotic tradition,
152
have not long-since graduated from that status where
such Red tenets have anything to offer them. So to
approximate what is attractive to him in his tempera-
mental sadism and racial adolescence, he has to install
them by violence, force, sedition and subtlety.
People found living under Constitutional forms are
usually ripe mentally and spiritually, if let alone by sub-
versive interests, to live under them. And it is senti-
mental nonsense to declare, either pedantically or
practically, that because one human group has so at-
tained and achieved, all human groups are similarly
deserving. If this were so, why the necessity for human
groups at all?
Human groups, or nations, are states or conditions of
spiritual progress, and the Plan of Life has it that human
entities shall go from attainment to attainment.
To attempt to throw groups, representing degrees of
mass attainments, all into one great group by saying
that either Constitutional or Sovietistic forms shall apply
in practice universally, is to ignore the fundamentals of
earthly experience. It would introduce the same chaos
into general society that would be introduced into a
school if all classes were thrown into one great class-
room for indiscriminate study-·freshmen, sophomores,
juniors and seniors-expecting a degree of culture to
result~ ~
Human groups, as such, express degrees of m'Oral and
spiritual enlightenments. Some of the mightiest mis-
takes of history have been made because the intelli-
153
gentsia of the various nations failed to recognize, or did
not care to recognize, this truth.
This, of course, is saying flatly and fearlessly that there
are grades and classes of society that not onlyi do not
merit constitutional forms of government, but would
penalize the higher and more advanced classes by at-
tempting to attain to them prematurely, or before the
former were ready to assimilate and practice them ~
«]f I do not preach class-or even race--discrimination
in this. I preach class or race degrees of human spirit-
uality, of which the Constitutional Form is the exter-
nalized evidence.
We cannot go forward as students of cultures until we
make self-evident distinctions, devoid of squeamish
sentimentalities, and look the facts in the face as we
find them~~
Many men think that because Constitutional Forms
have in advanced cases resulted in the curing of certain
social maladies, they will perforce cure all social mal-
adies of every description, everywhere.
They look upon the human species as a universal
brotherhood, arguing that the Eskimo or the Hottentot
is essentially the counterpart of the Aryan or the Nordic
because he has two arms, two legs, brings forth his
young in conjugation with his female and exists on di-
gested food. This is to viciously ignore Sociology and
rear the spiritual structure on biology. It cannot be
done, and history proves it.
The two forms of evolution, Biological and Sociological,
154
or physical and spiritual. grow up along two separate
routes of achievement.
The Biological is a method, the Sociological is a means,
GJl You cannot have men all sociological, as you have
them all biological, because their evolution is measured
in entirely different time-frames.
You are ignoring the Divine Principle which decrees
that men shall enhance themselves spiritually by a
wholly different ,method than those by which they en-
hance themselves physically. And there is no point of
contact~~
I say: "I would rather be Aryan than Negroid or Mon-
golian." What am I expressing? I am specifying not
only a degree of culture-for after all, all culture is
relative-I am expressing a degree of spiritual attain-
ment, since the mass level of intelligence in the one case
is higher than in the other.
These are simple equations. But there is nothing simple
about their worldly application, particularly in times
like the present.
It is a fundamental of advanced spirituality, to read
one's own mental and sense-reactions-to say nothing
of emotions-into all other forms of the human-life
projection. This is essentially the "Christian" view-
point. .But applied practically, it works all sorts of
havoc. Because, without being any less Christian, it
accredits lower forms of life and intelligence with merits
and attainments which do not exist and therefore cannot
function ~ ~
155
.
"
i';
r~
•
i;-
~·
~ -
'[
I-
Given a group of men of different nationalities, the de-
gree of assent resulting for any given project will be
measured, not by the common intelligence, as many
hold thoughtlessly, but by the common welfare physi-
cally. This in itself sets up a barrier to the development
of intelligence.
Men must be considered as gods in school, each of a
different period of application to his studies. Dividing
them according to their progress is not visiting them
with disparagements. It is looking at ~ociological facts
and applying them objectively.
The very fact that certain groups, or classes, or na-
tionals, might resent such classification, is proof of the
correctness of the issue under study.
The higher people go in intelligence, or spiritual de-
velopment, the less inclined they are to take umbrage
at comparisons.
So therefore we have this proposition: Men are men
physically, wherever you perceive them, but men are.
only men politically and so~ially, according as they
evince the principles on which we build our comparisons
of them, one group against another.
This is difficult to hold in mind, and cruel perhaps to the
imaginations of the highest forms of human develop-
ment who instinctively would order the race in terms of
their own psychologies. It is nothing of the sort to
those forms of human development not yet enabled
intellectually to _think beyond themselves or their
immediate family groupmgs. Their very deficiencies
156
of intelligence prevent them from making the discrimi-
nations that result in what the higher forms would take
to mean disparagement. They are really being coddled
and pampered to their hurt, with few resultant benefits
to society at large.
As men progress spiritually from race to race, and spirit-
uality to spirituality, they perceive these things in their
true proportions and are benefited instinctively-not
essentially in external relations.
External relations take care of themselves. Again I say,
we have history as proof.
Americans in particular should think of their Constitu-
tion-and the Constitutional Law which it literalizes-
as an intelligent and workable address to those to whom
it applies and who view it in receptive denouement,
which is· not the same for all social groups under every
condition of existence. Once this fact is made plain, and
intelligently accepted, we do away with eighty per cent
of the antagonism between groups as nations. Cer-
tainly we should do away with nearly one hundred per
cent of antagonism as between class and class.
Why can we not get it through our heads that life is not
an issue in a law court? Life is an expression of one
entity's existence as against another entity's existence,
under the conditions most practical and profitable for
both concerned in the experience.
Given a dozen men, it may be found that a dozen forms
of law are applicable to them. Given a dozen different
groups, those dozen forms will unerringly manifest. Yet
157
in its essence of application, law as law will remain the
same-peace among individuals, therefore peace among
groups, that each may survive with the greatest allot-
ment of benefits from the whole life experience.
You cannot have men wandering aimlessly around,
however, seeking their groups. You must have a Plan
of Cohesion properly established, that men may recog-
nize their individual obligations
158
THE FOURTEENTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
THE FOURTEENTH DISCUSSION
HICH brings us back to a still
l-'~li9illl:.i.:.:lllll~U.. closer examination of the phe-
nomena of Politics. Politics
comes in to effect this miracle
in animalistic lives. By ani-
malistic I do not mean brutish.
I mean life as perceived by the
senses only. Politics is the
....a.i-..~-..• science of finding for the in-
dividual his place of power in organized society and
furnishing him with legal opportunity to fill it as ef-
fectively as spiritual erudition makes possible!
Politics says to a man: "You have an animal body with
animal instincts, particularly those of self-preservation
for yourself and your immediate group. You also have
a spiritual essence which demands that you recognize
your interdependence on one another. Somehow the
two must be correlated for practical workmanship in this
Garden of Experience. To take the desires of your
animalistic selves and merge them in group fecundity,
losing at the same time no part of your inherent sus-
ceptibility to organization for practical solution of
161
problems, is a job of the highest merit and a function
sublime in concept."
Given a group of thirty men, ten will he indolent, ten
will be industrious, ten will he bellicose, improvident,
luck-inspired. How to take those thirty men and. pre-
serve their moral and spiritual attributes for the good of
their offspring and the enhancement of racial cultures,
is Politics in ablest form.
Somewhere in those men is a common denominator of
horse sense which enables them to understand their
amenability to common law-or rather-their acquies-
cence to modes of living that shall he reasonably peace-
ful, that each may have opportunity to express his in-
dividuality to the remaining twenty-nine. Law then-.-
especially in its Constitutional form-interpreted in
terms of Politics which is its practical instrumentality,
can be set down as this:
The effort of Humanity's Subconsciousness to align
itself with forces of peaceful expression, and the mute
desire working out through human institutions for every
man to be alloted his little scope of expression without
harming his neighbor or his group.
We have too long thought of "the law" and Politics as
halves of a profligate police force, clubbing the righteous
and cultured into obeying the caprices of the unlettered
and degraded.
Politics is the very antithesis of such, as I propose here-
inafter to dissect it into expedients.
It is the method by which the group manifests its ad-
J62
hesion to current concepts of Constitutional Law, or
constitutional peace, as you prefer!
Dwell on this! Think· on it!
We have Politics in wards and precincts, on school:
boards and in caucuses, in city streets, in vast groups
known as nations. Assuredly the politics of the ward-
heeler, to be termed such, must have something in com-
mon with the interplay of wits between world states-
men. Its methods may be as different as the antics of
the child are demarked from the personal preferences
of the cultured adult in action. Yet, even as the child
and adult are essentially human and responsive to the
same stimuli socially and naturally, so Politics as a
system of human activity-a retrenchment of social ab-
. normality, if you please--has a common trend through-
out every state of application.
This can be nothing other than the fundamental prin-
ciple of attempting to adjust the human ego to an
environment in which other egos are factors, and letting
it find and exercise such amount of personal power as
the spiritual erudition of the said ego permits it to exert.
fJf Looked at in this light, Politics is as noble, as altruistic,
as spiritual, as poetry or religion.
I base this argument on my prior analysis that Politics
aims to make the human being fit into his environment
with minimum distress to himself and to others.
Never once should we overlook the fact, however, that
any form of social force-especially one so potent as
Constitutional Law with its practical exponent, Politics
163
•
-only exists in terms of a performance that is human.
Law as law may be abstract.
Politics may be defined as law in the concrete.
But Politics is the Law in human notions of values that
are practical, and any real study of those values must
be carried on in the symbols of human souls.
At once we confront the qualifying factors of Bloods
and the Consanguinity of Peoples.
Before Politics can be either expressed or interpreted by
the ward-heeler, the blatant demagogue, or the truly
constructive world statesman, it must take into account
this relationship of bloods.
The Consanguinity of Peoples is a vital and encompass-
ing factor in interpretation of all forms of law and their
application to human activity through human instru-
mentalities. Only as we perceive the influence which
Consanguinity exerts on political thinking and function-
ing, do we supply ourselves with an adequate philo-
sophic background for painting the aforesaid three types
of political dignitaries, and observe how to deal with
them. in terms of intellectual leadership.
164
T is both instructive and interesting to
~~~~~~~ note how peoples of either similar or allied
bloods seem to exercise something in-
herent in those bloods which give unique
tone and shade to their political explor-
ings. Certainly human history is little else than the
attack of one political concept upon another.
By this token, if we concede that Politics in its purity of
service is as noble and spiritual as poetry or religion,
then the drama of human relationships must hold profit-
able revelations. We are confronted by a presentiment
that consanguinity of peoples is largely responsible for
Law Farms as we know them, that is, Law in the sense
of statutes and limitations prescribing the conduct of
human souls affected.
The consanguinity of peoples is admittedly biological.
On the other hand we are prone to forget in our enthu-
siasm for Biology that it can also be conceived as socio-
logical. You cannot view a people in a spirit of law,
order,. and fidelity to a group, without having them more
or less consanguinous. "People are of one blood" we
say, when they respond to certain group actions and
manners that distinguish their group from all other
groups.. That is, they make known their desires and
trends in a manner unique unto themselves, therefore
consanguinously. This does not mean that they are
"queer." It means that they show contrasts fJl Consan-
guinity of peoples is never expressed more clearly than
in their reactions to Law and their behavior under it.
165
The Irishman or Celt looks at Law as a personal medium
for the expression of an individuality that is naturally
bellicose. The Spaniard looks at Law as something to
be flouted so lo.ng as he can do it successfully, that is,
without damage to his physical welfare. The English-
man looks at Law as a medium for extending his dictates
over other peoples while he himself tolerates it, annoyed
by it but not necessarily resentful that he must suffer it.
The Englishman is really more lawless than the Span,..
iard so long as it suits his purpose empirically, where-
upon, when the sun of his fortunes is beclouded by a
people still more lawless, he takes refuge under the very
umbrella which he so conveniently throws away. The
Dutchman looks at Law much like the German: as an
abstract principle wholly divorced from the fiats of
monarchy which he does not have to obey personally
when personally made or instigated. The Frenchman
sees Law as a casus belli; he; sets up his Law and says,
"This is for the regulation of the foreigner within or
without our gates and if he does not assent to it he will
find himself in trouble." Which he usually does. But
the Frenchman himself winks at his laws and deports
himself as the polished aristocrat, guided more by the
dictates of good taste than the regulations of police
courts~~
Coming to the Latin, in the sense of the Mediterranean
peoples, we find Law almost negated. Law is not some-
thing to be set up and obeyed. It is something to be set
up and knocked over, the bagateile of cliques and fac-
166
tions, the by-play of statesmen serving personal ends.
t;Jf No Latin takes his law seriously, or if he does, it is
with the seriousness of a child for an interesting toy.
He practices the form without grasping the essence. He
is the high adventurer, more or less contemptuous of
orderly regulation, and the exact antithesis of the
Oriental who perceive8' in all Law some phase of
Divinity~~
These races are not to he blamed for the calumnies they
bring on one another by this transport of the principles
of Law to nefarious ends.
Law is Law wherever one finds it. It says to mankind,
"Thus far and no farthe1'1 in your acts and deeds, lest
calamity visit you." But different nationalities and
races interpret the penalties from transgression, and the
procedure under transgression, in diverse ways accord-
ing to racial history or consanguinous impulses. The
reason why I interject this dissertation on Consanguinity
ahead of my study of that political amoeba, the Ward-
Heeler, is this:
Compact national groups with a strong group conscious-
ness will be more hostile toward their neighbors than
those loosely-knit-having less fear of consequences,
which in turn is a willingness to invite debts of Cause
and Effect, believing that payment can be delayed in-
definitely or at least at their pleasure. Loosely-knit
groups, or people without a strong sense of group con-
sciousness, are disposed to he more conscientious about
paying debts similarly incurred. Thus we have groups
167
or nations who seek protection most strongly in stat-
utory enactments. History shows that bellicose nations
frequently have fewer statutory enactments. while
those most inclined· to be peaceable, load up their legis-
lative records with thousands of laws which are dead by
the time ~hey are placed on the records . . .
W admittedly the Ward-Heeler is the
lowest form of life in political biology,
but we must consider him as the man in
the street accepts or profits by his function.
-..-..:::!1!111...-... fj The Ward-Heeler recognizes the lack of
strong group consciousness among such races or na-
tionals as are found in great city centers, and proceeds
to capitalize on it. He makes his living by playing the
individual against the mass. He says to the voter:
"Wit~out me you are powerless. I protect your in-
terests -against powers vested with unlawful privileges.
I come to you as a standard~bearer, epitomizing. your
nakedness as an individual but representing your
0,ollective strength to deal with the machine of the
majority.''
The individual voter accepts that this is so. If he has a
brain he uses it only to recognize his apparent weakness
as an individual, not to see his strength collectively with
others in similar predicament. He accepts the Ward-
Heeler's promises and dictates, content with a ton of
coal in the winter which is usually one-quarter slate as
a gift from the party machine, or an eulogy in the party
168
newspapers telling him that he is "the People, all
powerful, and able to perpetuate or destroy the whole
social structure." . He goes to the polls periodically and
votes as the Ward-Heeler instructs, or he stays away
from the polls and lets the Ward-Heeler vote his proxies
-·so to speak-by illegal balloting.
This goes on from year to year. If the Ward-Heeler be
not one hundred percent flagrant in the abuse of his
power, the Machine he represents continues to dole out
coal indefinitely and fills the newspapers with paeans
praising "the People." If, on the other hand,
the Ward-Heeler abuses his power, aggravates the
individual voter, or fails in the delivery of his coal, he
is booted from favor and another-of exactly the
same type-takes his place under the banner of The
Opposition.
It would be very easy to castigate this sort of thing as a
travesty on popular government. The practice is ac-
credited in various forms, however, in many countries
outside of America. England has her political hench-
men and poll workers in city election districts. In Ger-
many and Austria, even in Franee and Russia, and up
to a recent date in Italy, the Ward-Heeler had his proto-
type, anxious to see that the individual voter came out
on election day and did his "duty" under the duress of .
either reward or punishment.
These practices are common wherever groups are loosely
knit in their thinking, and strange to say-yet not so
strange either when we stop to think about it-·-there is
169
:--'l'
--
.
less group consciousness and greater lack of organized
thinking in the congestion of our cities than out in
sparsely settled districts of any given countryside ~
fJI Why this should he so, of course is obvious.
In the congested city the individual feels security by be-
ing lost in the mass while not exactly a part of mass
intellect. In the country the individual puts more re-
liance on his own urges and impulses though at the same
time his hunger for closer association with his kind pro-
duces a universality of attitude toward governmental
organization that his city brother does not feel instinc-
tively. Therefore we have no politics played in the
country-politics, I· mean, worth spelling with a capital
P and in the sense of controlled city voting.
The city dweller is a nonentity amid thousands of other
nonentities, and senses it because of the incredible num-
bers of persons he beholds around him hour by hour.
The country man sees only himself and immediate
family, sometimes for weeks on end, which tends to
make him realize his alone-ness and need for greater
cooperation with his fellows. We say therefore that the
latter ••thinks independently" and arrives at his political
conclusions by a process of logic. He does nothing of
the sort. He simply responds to his urge toward grega-
riousness, and, lacking the facilities of gregariousness,
he does the best that he can as an individual, relying
on his personal acumen and social sagacity to dictate
his opinions expressed by the ballot-box.
The Ward-Heeler could never obtain a hold on the coun-
170
try to any extent; not bec(:\use the distance between vot-
ers makes for his personal inconvenience, but because
the country man sees human nature in better perspec-
tive, not being surfeited by it.
You cannot have a group of men eternally watching
one another without breeding suspicion and distrust.
Such is the city psychology that makes the Ward-Heel-
er possible.
The country man gets a fair dilution of bodily health,
sun and rain and outdoor psychology, into his group
thinking. All this making for independence, we have
the seeming paradox of its also making the healthiest
kind of interdependence.
· City people are children in their outlookon life, especial-
ly on governmental agencies. Country people are more
adult. That is to say they view and decide for them-
selves, and see homogeneity as an asset in group intel-
ligence~~
The city person, being childlike, looks to the govern-
mental parent to give him wisdom and direction day by
day, and the governmental parent comes in the guise
of the Ward-Heeler who steals the child's pennies while
it is sleeping in perfect trust in the parent's integrity.
CJ Incidentally, this analysis explains why the Jew, when
given political power, immediately sets up a paternal
bureaucracy. The Jew down through the ages has been
essentially a city dweller, made such by the necessity for
protection from persecution for nonsocial practices. It
further explains why the strange Jewish political psy-
171
chology known as Communism is ever a product of
metropolitanism.
Now t4en, let us take the W ard~Heeler on this basis
into national-and perhaps international politics-for
a few pages, and see what he does, and how he affects
national groups or specific races in their ~lignments
against each. other.. · ..
172
THE FIFTEENTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
:±-..•THE FIFTEENTH DISCUSSION~
0 BEGIN with, the Ward-Heeler
is a type of looter. Let us get
this straight and never lose
sight of it. His mission is to
fatten his own pure-first, last,
and all the time. He has no
love for humanity as such,
never mind how gregarious he ·
may be in his contacts. Hu-
manity to him is a sheep-flock, to be sheared to his
advantage. He knows he can drive the sheep-flock
wherever he wills, provided he does not anger the sheep
or unduly rout or injure them. He goes onward from
year to year on the principle that although he loses
office temporarily, he cannot lose his offices perma-
nently, for there is no substitute for his place in our
present political structure. He is a master in the art of
chicane, perfidious promising, and mob entertainment.
He knows how to divert attention from real issues and
fasten it on nonessential bluster. He takes his Party as
shibboleth of his own holiness and rhapsodizes over it
to tears, playing on mass loyalty to work individual dis-
175
loyalty-at least to self and the public good ~ ~
In addition to these, the Ward-Heeler is past master in
the art of thinking without thought, and performing
without performance. He comes and goes as a wolf in
sheep's clothing who exacts his toll in the darkness of
night, laying the blame for his killings on the very in-
terests he affects to combat.
He is not to be blamed-as an individual. He but fol~
lows his destiny as an officer of blind social forces over
which he actually has no control. This makes him an
opportunist of the first water. As opportunity offers,
so he profits.
Consider him therefore in national politics. Just who is
he, and where does he manifest? Listen to this :
We have a state in general society, wherein people are
so timid when confronted by· titanic issues fraught with
destruction, that their mass timidities give birth to panic.
Wars and rumors of wars can effect this condition.
Powerful financial interests undermining government
can produce it. . Mob leaders are artists in working on
collective terrors, no matter how small, artfully magni-
fying them into imminent cataclysms. All these
agencies are bent toward the one consummation: get-
ting the mass to follow the individual, or the ideal, or
the Party expressed in the individual, so that loot may
be taken by those thus successful in their social chicane.
fJf Be not deceived. Take away all opportunities for
loot from government, and you have government as
pure as mountain-spring water.
176
Make it a crime, successfully punishable in every in-
stance, to receive a dollar of public money above a
stipulated salary, and you purify government at one
slashing sword-stroke.
Conversely, however, you take from government its
greatest appeal to the rank and file, that makes it a
vocation~~
No matter how honest the congressman, senator, or
public official, he knows that his position will give him
opportunities to better his financial standing, though not
necessarily connected with the government strong-box,
He may go into office determined to do his duty toward
his country. But he also goes into office determined to
do his duty toward himself.
This does not mean that all congressmen, senators, and
public officials, are scoundrels. It means that if they
never had a single emolument above the stipend openly
and concretely attached to any office, there would be
such a dearth of public officials that government could
scarcely operate, excepting in times of universal danger
when officials volunteered in order to save their own
property~~
Men and women are always human in that they think
of themselves before considering the group. Or rather,
they think of themselves-and security for their persons
and possessions-in terms of the group, when they do
group thinking.
This is understandable.
It seems to be Nature's plan for making the individual
177
aware of the group, but carried to excess it means un-
natural practices. The group ceases to function as a
group, and blindly follows the behest of some strong
individual or assembly of potentates.
Human nature in the abstract is so constructed that it
cannot see beyond the length of its own nose when it
comes to group or national policy. Thinking collec-
tively is an eccentric attribute.
If mankind could think collectively it would have no
need for governmental agencies. Every man would be
like every other man, and the sameness of individuals
would make the race a plague of robots.
Men think differently because of individuality, and yet
it cannot be denied that there are certain factors in life,
accredited by all men in every sort of group, that act
upon them with common impulse and result. The
mental reaction to these factors represents what is
commonly termed Mass Thinking.
It is truly Mass Reaction. . . .
f 78
~''lr"'li-:.~--W the Ward Politician, being human also
and ever on the lookout for loot in the
form of either money, prestige, or social
lhoi/1~~~11 enhancement, invited himself into the
1Cir..A-..:31K.1116.1 national group essentially as the Dema-
gogue. What has he to offer the body politic? His
"principles" cannot be his own, for he has no prin-
ciples-speaking of principles as fundamental ideas of
constructive worth to his fellow citizens. He comes
and goes on the stage of national politics, in waves of
popular passion or excitement. He collects such facts
as the psychology of the moment renders pertinent to
his purpose, and projects them at the mass as tenets of
authority with aspects of great wisdom. The Public,
being as a child fourteen years old in mental capacity,
and often less, likes to be told the thing it knows or
or suspects; for, being essentially fearful, it wants con-
firmation of its whimsical conceptions. It rises and
falls in so-called intellect at the behest of forces it cannot
understand, and when the demagogue seizes on the
obvious aspects of its dilemma and expounds them with
a clarity, it does not take much ability to pass them
along as interpretative wisdom.
Dissect and analyze the speeches of demagogues, and
they become the puerile utterings of undeveloped
mentalities, seeking to pass as perturbing profundities
because cloaked in grand phrasings or vapid innuendoes.
G]I So let us take the Demagogue-whom I make sy-
nonymous with the city Ward-Heeler-and consider
179
his behavior in the face of calamity. For instance, War.
f]f First and foremost, always remember that the dema-
gogue rarely wants it. It paralyzes his business, mini-
mizes his importance, substitutes the military for the
so-called civil authority, and makes him the cellar in-
triguer or the wordy camp scavenger.
The Demagogue is lost and confounded in the march
of excitements unless he rises to supernal heights and
makes his voice heard above the clear blare of bugles.
He must scream like an eagle to gain the slightest atten-
tion. But to scream like an eagle he must have some-
thing to scream about. Mere noise does not attract
attention, especially in war time when screaming is
general~~
The demagogue therefore, in self-preservation-to
maintain his prestige which of course means his liveli-
hood-must cast around for ideas so unique or bizarre
that they outweigh the popular clamor and force atten-
tion on him by the sheer audacity of their noisier
presentation. Truth is ·not important. Veracity is
abandoned. The big thing is sensation-which means
that the demagogue, or ward-heeler in national politics,
ascends unheard-of heights to make himself so ridicu-
lous that he is sometimes taken seriously as the prophet
of New Dawns.
Only men of spectacular ability can do this, and such
ability is erroneously translated as leadership. Really it
is vassalage of a low, low order, since it means that
the demagogue must often descend into abysses of ·
180
infamous practices to get his "issues.'' Then, having
gotten them, he must marry them for better or for
worse throughout the lifetime of their popularity, or
lose face and pelf.
These "issues," so obtained purely for their bizarre
qualities, may transcend every tenet of commonsense in
the face of the calamity. No matter! The demagogue
must have his "issues"-to keep himself before the
public~ ~
So he assails and rants and eulogizes, to any purpose
opportune to his caprice. That he may be a coward
and perhaps a traitor, in the choice of his "issues," makes
small difference. He must go on screaming, or be lost
in the shuffie of mighty events.
The shibboleth and motto on his ensign is: "I care not
what others may think, but as for me, give me attention
or give me death!" Sometimes he gets death-well
merited-but more often he gets notice under the guise
of statesmanship and is pushed to the fore as the Man
of the Hour.
What happens, however, when he is so promoted?
One of two things: He either sees himself in his true
light and becomes suddenly sane in his pronouncements
-in which case he flirts with oblivion again-or he
becomes a prophet indeed, a prophet leading the masses
to their destruction with abominable doctrines fished
from the abyss of a desperate self-aggrandizement ~
t][ Going one step further, let us see where this leads us
in international affairs. .
181
·-·__-,,.
THE SIXTEENTH . DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
±..•THE SIXTEENTH DISCUSSION!-!¥
SUBMIT that no crisis ever
arose between two countries
that could not be settled ami-
cably around a green table, if
those countries could but
muzzle their eagle screamers
and rampant opportunists.
Countries affiicted with crises
usually arrive at such, anyhow,
through the operations of these same Ward-Heelers on
the stage of international events. Seldom do nations
·arrive at a pass where carnage is necessary to settle con-
flicting issues, provided the Ward-Heelers and eagle
screamers-seeking only their selfish advantages-can
be turned out to pasture for a time, or left to forage for
themselves in fields of physical labor.
International conflicts, in nine cases out of ten, are the
results of so-called "popular passions," aroused to fever
heat on both sides. But those passions do not originate
and grow choleric unless fanned by external means If!
fj Any nation's greatest enemy is not its armed adver-
sary in the field, or even the voracious activities of
185
envious and bellicdse princes aligned against it. A
nation's most dastardly antagonist is the cowardly
exploiter of Self, showering tons of ward-heeler coal
on the body politic in return for surrender of its
priceless heritage of self-assertion after calm logic-
that the demagogue may turn the crisis to his personal
advantage ~ ~
Make no mistake about this, the Ward-Heeler in na-
tional politics is the rampant demagogue.
The Ward-Heeler in international politics is the fanner
of international animosities, who would set a world
aflame before he would saw a cord of wood or clear a
patch of garden.
He is the servant of his own passions in order to serve
the passions of the races involved.
He is the huckster of his own principles and honor,
before huckstering the principles and honor of the
peoples he affects to represent.
And he always finds ready markets for his wares when
great predatory interests-operating on an international
scale-discern that it is to the advantage of their ne-
farious ends to employ him, even though he may not
always be aware that he is so employed.
186
H1o:..-.iQll::.~-. OW this seeming diatribe against Ward-
Heelers and Demagogues might be banal
except for one point too often overlooked:
Each is necessary in the body politic and
the elimination of both would be catastro-
phic, because none could take their places in what they
accomplish by translating Group Law into a force that
affects the life of the average individual in his relation-
ships to his fellows.
The Demagogue, in other words, actually has a mission!
Not, however, as a demagogue!
It is his function, as \Vard-Heeler, to make Politics
practicable-that is, to furnish a contact point whereby
the mass acts in concert with the individual's initiative.
fJI This concerted action of the· mass is always provoca-
tive of intelligence, which the individual is not aware of
until long after its results have become apparent ~
fJI Concerted action is not only galvanic; it is instructive
and "intelligently impelling," in that it makes the indi-
vidual examine himself more closely in his relationship
toward the group;
We have a deep study here which requires a chapter
unto itself. But this is most important:
The individual is never eased out of his mass phleg-
matism. He is always forced out-dynamited out, if
you will so consider it.
He is made to see himself as he is, by violence.
This seeing himself as he is, violently, is largely the
definition of "crisis" in any situation.
187
The ward-heeler or demagogue, wherever you find him,
realizes this subconsciously. His acts and deportments
are ever to that end when he enters the role of eagle
screamer or international diplomat. He makes his
public aware of its "predicament" by maximum theatrics
and excessive metaphor. He gets it wrought up by
violence indeed. Then he proceeds-or tries-to capi-
talize that violence to his own advantage.
Sometimes it works and he comes into power. Some-
times it does not work and he is relegated to the scrap-
heap. The outcome in either event is relatively unim-
portant, since humanity will persist despite all the eagle
screamers in creation.
-The demagogue, therefore, has his function in the body
politic as a sort of bombastic yeast, causing it to rise to a
recognition of its own attributes after leavening group
consciousness. And the chief of these attributes is an
inherent capacity for reasoning individually but acting
collectively, not to mention supplying the human in-
strumentality by which a finer and more beauteous pat-
tern could be worked out if the body politic would only
take unto itself the proper social consciousness.
There is, of course, no such thing as The Mass, or the
"masses." There are only vast numbers of single
entities, comprising their own peculiarities, along with
certain activities that derive from group consciousness,
or Group Cognizance.
The Masses as masses are a myth, or abstract creation.
But the individual is never abstract, and must find a
188
contact point on which he exhibits Group Intelligence.
This Group Intelligence, as we have already seen, is
comprised of factors that propose the greatest good for
the greatest numbers. The individual, therefore, must
have an instrumentality by which he contacts the group
as a Group, and collectively manifests the group in-
telligence ~ ~
The Ward-Heeler does this for him,· or sees that he does
it, considering him in his indigenous habitat, the city
precinct. The Ward-Heeler as such in national politics,
however, is not so essential as he is provocative of re-
creative ends, for he exhibits traits that are more de-
structive than the opposite.
When we come to international politics, he is not merely
a malicious influence but avowedly a manifest nuisance.
fJI Let us turn now to the Ward-Heeler, the Demagogue,
and the International Mischief-Maker, as necessary evils
in the politico-social structure . . . for until we look at
them from every angle, and understand thoroughly
what each is, and how he maintains his power, we can
have no furniture in our Room of the World but what
will meet with a periodic smashing.
189
~~~E.i~E KNOW that plenty of men exist who
have no other interest in life than mind-
ing the other fellow's business. This on
its face seems annoying, even aggra-
vating. But is it always malicious and
unprofitable? The man who minds the other fellow·s
business, accomplishes a twofold purpose: he gives
himself something to do, and he sees to it that the other
fellow does simething likewise. Or rather, put it in
this way: He makes it his business to inspect the other
fellow's activities, and the other fellow, aware of such
inspection, has a tendency not to lie down on the thing
which he is doing.
This is a vital principle of Sociology.
A group, a city, or a nation, totally without busybodies,
is like a loaf of bread that is minus its yeast. It lacks a
certain quality making for resiliency in function.
People are gregarious. They are interested to read of
themselves in terms of the other fellow and his activities.
They also read the other fellow in terms of themselves
and their own activities. This is healthy. It makes fr;,r
community of interest, social sympathy, a.."ld abstract
compassion ~ ~
There are all kinds of busybodies, however-respectable
and indecent, legitimate and illegitimate, beneficial and
baneful, constructive and malicious.
Any agency that propounds information or intelligence
of a general order that makes man to know his fellows
the better, to appreciate their good qualities and depre-
190
cate their faults, is constructive and beneficent ±!! ·~
Any agency that leads men to estimate their fellows for
their motives, falsely, is baneful and malicious. We
cannot have "good gossips" or "bad information," using
these terms in their root meanings, but we can and do
have ..good information" and "bad gossiping." . . .
The ward-heeler, the demagogue, and the national or
international mischief-maker are, on the whole, subli-
mated gossips; whereas newspapers, preachers, authors,
psalmists, and lawyers of the constructive type, are pur-
veyors and conveyors of intelligence about their fellows
that is blessed in its ultimate effects on civilization ~
C] This business of raising up demagogues to shout at
all sorts of fancied malfeasance and corporate evil in the
market-places, is a phase of so-called Civilization, to be
grievously lamented. It is social intemperance of the
most virulent order. It makes man's intelligence a
brooding-place for malice, envy, and social destruction.
CJ[ The Demagogue is a component part of modern state-
hood, but he is only necessary so long as he is clearly
recognized for that which he is! . . .
This may seem a strange statement, but all that I have
tried to set forth in this chapter up to this point has been
building toward it.
191
fR~~lli~HE PETTY politician, the eagle screamer,
or the international bloodhound who bays
at the moon till he makes it drip· gore, is
necessary so long as he fulfills the function
of making the true statesman apparent to
the man in the street. He is only necessary so long as
he looks to the Party for subsistence and lets the public
pelf alone, thus apprising honest men of their honesty.
He is moderately harmless, so long as he keeps within
bounds of his intellectual circumference. The moment,
however, that he rises in the public estimation to the
point of being fallaciously mistaken for an exponent of
greatness, because he is mystical or reverberant, then he
ceases to be necessary, or useful, or harmless, and be-
comes the grossest type of social liability.
It is my contention that nations are given demagogues,
to purge them of uncleanliness by making them to dis-
cern golden worth in their true representatives.
To say that all small politicians, bellboy hucksters, and
ranters, are a universal nuisance that should be elimi-
nated, is to see human nature trying to make the Br~ad
of Utopia without the yeast. We must not stop here
with metaphor, however, thinking that calling attention
to malfeasance in office-even the office of social pre-
scription-is sufficient to condone the abuses precipi-
tated by augurers of tin-pan woes.
Man has a mission unto himself. It is to train himself
in self-government-or better, in self-discipline-and
the task is monumental. It cannot be accomplished by
192
axioms, or the actual practices of transient generations.
CJ! Light is given men and women to guide them intelli-
gently along lines of self-profit, when they will use their
eyes in concurrence with it.
People who would cure all the ills of humanity by theo-
retical legislation, are no more practicing self-discipline
than a farmer who turns out his hogs to pasture, think-
ing they will till his soil with their snouts.
People must work for the profits from discipline, the
same as from any other labor. The great task con-
fronting humankind today-in effecting any govern-
ment that is worth its powder and shot-is not regu-
larity of attendance at the polls, so much as an intelli-
gent analysis and a recognition of the true leader from
the partisan henchman seeking selfish profit from the
filling of an office.
The party henchman is necessary, the ward-heeler is
necessary, the demagogue is necessary, the international
busybody is necessary-but only to throw true leader-
ship in a highlight on the screen of public intelligence.
CJ! Civilization with discipline, then, is not regularity of
voting, so much as voting intelligently. It is not party
adherence, so much as personal performance in cool-
brained analysis. It is not the tenets of political educa-
tion, however constructive in their essence, so much as
a selection of men who typify those tenets most
accurately ~ ~
The cry to select wise leaders is old, old-as old as the
race and as banal as sod. We have now approximated
193
1
f
a state of society, however, where "leaders" are chosen,
not for their integrities or sagacities, but for their popu-
larities-and largely manufactured popularities-be-
cause the candidates for "leadership" have been found
to be acquiescent to certain strategies that will advance
the .materialistic or racial interests of the men who
sponsor them.
That is to say, we think the greatest leader is he who
has attracted the greatest personal following. All of
which is as great a piece of nonsense as calling some
Hollywood screen featherhead a great leader because
millions of women are willing to stampede theaters to
see him act.
It say it dogmatically.
A monkey in a cage, cutting up antics, m::i.y jamb an
entire city block with "followers" on a similar basis.
Would we elect the monkey to the legislature? I grant
you, however, that it too often happens....
Thousands of so-called statesmen, of great "popular
leadership," are actually little else than antic-cutting
primates~~
The crowd loves a show, and given a good-enough show,
with basic human attractions, it will follow the show-
man down any grade and off into any bog, for its eyes
are apt to be on the showman's exhibition, not on the
pathway which he is pursuing.
The true leader is not always he who puts on a good
show. Any passable trapeze performer may do that,
and every tight-rope walker is "good for a crowd" ±!fl
194
f:lf The true leader says: "I have analyzed the prospect,
and now submit my theories for your cool consideration.
If sobeit you approve of them, permit me the chance
to put them into practice. If you prove that I am wrong
in them, I agree to withdraw as graciously as possible.
But I will endeavor to show you how to help yourselves,
and as such I solicit your fidelity until such profit may
be demonstrated."
The peanut politician, the demagogue, and the ranter,
each say, conversely, "I am certain that never was man
born so clever as myself. Come and see it proven."
They make no pretense of helping men to help them~
selves. They simply pile up bricks so as to tower above
the crowd and declare thereby that they are greater i11
stature than any of their neighbors.
~C1l~'3~~ T IS a delicate subject, saying broadcast
that there are not half a dozen real leaders
on this basis in all America today, and
less than a score throughout the whole
world. It implies that thousands upon
thousands of officeholders are mere demagogues or
rogues. I do not say that exactly, and certainly do not
mean it. I mean that the rank and file of officeholders
and representatives are mainly nonentities as leaders;
hoping-as harmlessly as possible and certainly without
giving offense-to profit as legitimately as they can
from their offices, if not in money then at least in
prestige :±..• ~
195
Where are those leaders whom I otherwise specify?
Listen and I will tell you. They are found in that Little
Handful of Earnest Men who have occasionally sought
office purely to show humankind how to help itself ~
«Jr People who go in. for office and office-holding, are
usually persons with axes to grind. The entire history
of the race, politically speaking, is a far flung parade of
persons whose axe-heads glint in sunlight. Those axes
may be pecuniary advantage, social prestige, better
livelihoods for themselves and families, jobs for rela-
tives-all the thousand and one opportunities for as..
cendancy above their fellows that come with civic en-
dowment of powers. But they are literally Christs and
Saviors, who throw all else aside and beg humankind to
give them ear-because they ask to show humankind
the path to its own Utopia, not the utopias that are
themselves ~ ~
Get.this correctly:
We of America comprise a nation of misfits. We say
in industry that we seek the right job for the right man.
We do nothing of the sort. Men knock around from
pillar to post all their lives, and society gives not a rap
whether they are properly placed or not. Here and
there a great humanitarian-employer tries to put the
axiom into practice, and in a measure does so. But as
a nation we live, work, and die, helter-skelter-and call
it democracy. Finding the right job for the right man,
is nobody's business but that of the man himself. He
now sinks or swims, makes port or drowns, according
196
to his intelligence-which is too often that of a heart-
broken child's. How, then, can we ask him to show
sagacity in the choice of his leadership, when he can
scarcely prescribe for his own daily contest?
There the problem rests, after a fashion, until we in-
vestigate that ingredient in human nature which per-
mits any leadership whatever to exercise itself. But
this thing is true:
Constitutional law, international law, national legisla-
tion, state jurisprudence, city politics, or ward-heeler's
chicane-all have their parts to fill and their offices to
administer, in the social structure. The problem of the
student, as well as of the man i~ the street, is not to
abolish, and not wholly to minimize, any one of these
at the expense of the other.
The thing to be done is, to bring home to the student-
and the average man as may be possible-the simple
principles by which he can discern the true prophets,
and the true properties and functions of each: and,
having so decided, or rather interpreted, to supply him
with some social force that makes him practice his dis-
cernments to a permanent, concrete profit.
Given twenty men with twenty problems, and yet with
one administrator, how shall they choose that admin-
istrator, and why should they choose him, to make
order from the social confusion represented by this score
of quandaries?
That is the task of the true administrator-not the wardr.
heeler who swaps tons of coal for blind allegiance, or
197
r-
r
the demagogue who pulls the American Eagle's tail-
feathers to make him scream on schedule.
It is the province of such super-intelligence, to see in
men everywhere their own solutions to their own social
perplexities, and bring out their collective initiative and
ingenuity, to get them permanent satisfaction from
the answers.
198
THE SEVENTEENTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
THE SEVENTEENTH DISCUSSION
~~·a~~~Zj~~OLUTIONS so evolved are the
lasting solutions-or rather,
the only solutions which effect
a profit that endures. To under-
stand the task of the true
administrator, however, we
should now look nakedly at
that unpleasant curiosity which
intrudes on our attention-
which intrudes most officiously on any real leader's
program and causes him most annoyance-to wit: The
Political Mind! . . .
Calvin Coolidge once said that the Political Mind was a
law unto itself. It fascinated him. He saw in it the
workings of an eccentric force, manifesting in few other
aspects of human endeavor.
He was right in such perception.
The Political Mind is a strange combination of conceit
and sacrifice, both having their basis in a form of self-
ennoblement. That is to say, the Political Mind con-
siders itself above all other minds in that it believes
itself omnipotent-to govern.
201
This is really a form of retrograde, for the higher the
true spirit climbs, the less it desires to dominate and the
more it desires to serve.
"Governing" spirits are spirits that fail in the main to
recognize their own defects. They believe themselves
ordained to exercise offices over their fellows because of
superior merit which they possess. But true ''superior
merit" never functions that way. True superior merit
sees in service True Government, for he who serves
exercises control over him who is served.
The servant is positive. The one served is negative.
fJl Negative people enjoy being served because it makes
up for something which they recognize they lack ~
fJl Strange as it may appear, people who accept service
as their due are woefully decadent in virile spirituality.
They lack the versatility of self-reliability. They see
no merit in the giving of themselves to others, for they
realize subconsciously that they would be throwing
themselves away on specimens like themselves.
Serving-people are baby gods!
This does not mean that every dull-eyed servant is a god
-infantile or otherwise. Some serve because they are
are made to serve, either by circumstances or the wills
of others. We are discussing volunteer service as min-
istration or administration.
Do not confuse servants with "persons who serve." ...
The first are those small souls who are compelled to
wait on others because they lack the initiative to play
higher roles. "Those who serve" give more thought to
202
the well-being of others than to themselves.
The Political Mind is a mind given over to a sort of
"decadent.. service. It measures that service in terms
of browbeating those about it, into accepting that which
is offered and liking it. It sees no merit in leadership
as we have discussed it-that is, letting the public mind
lead the public activity-and attempting to control both
by indirect influence. It wants to be at the head of the
procession or not be any part of it. It wants the public
to do as it is told, and calls the telling "leadership."
On the whole, it should be pitied, for nine times out of
ten it exhibits inferiority in its grossest, silliest forms ~
CJ! Calvin Coolidge rightly said that the Political Mind is
a phenomenon. It opens only to suggestions that have
its own well-being at heart, and beyond that does not
think~~
For instance, a man decides that he will run for office.
There is no especial reason why he should run for office.
He knows there is no special call for him and him alone.
He simply feels that if he can get elected to an office it
will vaguely satisfy his hunger for recognition. Or
maybe other factors motivate him. He wants money or
prestige, to consummate an event that is social or per-
sonal, or he wants to provide recognition for his friends
or relatives in order to discharge vague private obliga~
tions. He may have any one of a dozen motives.
I once knew a country publisher who went through four
costly and unsuccessful campaigns in attempts to be-
come governor of a certain New England state. As a
203
I,
'I
,-
1
young man, a more affluent suitor had been his rival in
love. He won the girl finally by making her a vow that
if she married him he would one day raise her to be
Governor's Lady. This editor is now a somewhat cyn-
ical man, going down the hill of life, married to a wo-
man who does not omit to remind him on occasions that
his promise is still unkept. He is otherwise a political
power in his State, but his basic motivation came from
striving to please the whims of a vain, ambitious woman.
There are such cases by the thousand, if the truth could
be known. But rarely, if ever, would the Political Mind
consider serving its fellows for their own good without
any recognition or "clay emoluments."
Of course this last is a hard test to apply to any man.
All life is a form of Expression and in political life Ex-
pression becomes sublimated until it is perverted.
Man's life is not his own to live, however, strange as it
may sound. He lives it in conjunction with the whims
and influences exerted upon him by scores of others,
many of whom have rightful demands upon him.
He lives because others live.
There could be no such thing as one human unit in the
entire universe, because it would be static. It could not
express itself. It could only wander aimlessly around
a geographical location, and nothing it might accom-
plish would enduringly mean anything. It could not
talk, sing, play, enjoy poetry, paint pictures, or run a
business, for it would be a nonentity in all of these
pursuits ~ ~
204
We acquire identity in the exact instant that there is one
other person in our vicinity-not before.
Our lives are the mirrors to all other lives.
We are bound by what they say and do be_cause we in
turn exist. They in turn cannot have identity without
ourselves as a part of the earthly picture and ensemble.
«Jr Tperefore, I repeat, it is impossible fo1' a human
person to live unto himself. But there is a trait in
human nature-and it crops out strongest in the
Political Mind-that would have us believe that human
nature must exist to be ruled, or it cannot rightfully
exist at all.
Now in a measure this is so, but the Political Mind
interprets this in terms of rulership by other human
beings, usually themselves, never by principles, or social
confluences, or legal reflexes.
I wish that I might shout this from every housetop in the
world: The social mind of the race is its own true
leader-ruler f
The Social Mind, I say, not the Political Mind, and-
to be consistent with my chapter on Autocracy-only
after each division, or only as each division, has ac-
quired a Social Mind. This goes, whether it be the
Group Consciousness, or the person who is thinking of
society in terms of constructive values.
The Political Mind says, "Men are deficient. They lack
leadership, so let it be pressed upon them. I neither
admit nor deny my qualifications to act as sponsor for
their behavior. I simply know that by making myself
205
-3
--~
popular I can gain acclaim in office, and in office I can
satisfy my caprices as they arise."
Of course the Political Mind does not speak these words
exactly, but its context holds this meaning.
A further strange feature-or rather, factor-in the
political mentality, too, is the propensity to think of
itself in terms of Agnosticism. It says to itself, "I may
be omnipotent and I may be otherwise, I may be a god
and I may not be a god, there may be a ruler over men's
destinies or there may not be a ruler over men's
destinies. Truth to tell, I care not, and in that which I
seek I am sufficient unto myself. I can take this office
and I can use it to my profit, so why should I not do so?
Who shall stop me? God? Let Him do it, but I doubt
that He will bother. Who shall curb what I may say, 50
long as I register it sufficiently to achieve my dominant
purpose?'' ~ ~
206
~•~w.;;g;:;a,aEN have died for their political convictions.
That is not saying they were political--
minded. To be poiitical-minded one must
think in terms of divine abstractions but
personal profits. To be political-minded
one must think in terms of social perversions, if need
be, to accomplish the purpose that is private. One must
disregard the ordinary laws governing humankind and
set up laws unto oneself.
This does not mean that everyone who does so is
political-minded. But the Political Mind, as a rule, sees
human nature as a herd of cattle or flock of sheep, easily
led, thrice easily butchered or profitably sheared. It has
no real respect for human nature else it would not try
to rule it for some gain. Its dictates are personal. Its
ambitions are personal. Its achievements may be
public but the rewards from those achievements must
ever be selfish, else they are not rewards.
Take the Political Mind, for instance, in relation to such
a subject as the tariff.
We know that the tariff, properly exercised, is a vast
protective measure for struggling and defenseless in-
dustries unable to withstand economically the lowered
costs of foreign manufacture. It is adopted by a country
to make its own manufacturers strong, and able to
realize profits. And yet no one is interested in it con-
cretely aside from those manufacturers specifically
benefitted. In a general way the public is interested,
knowing that the prosperity of its industries means a
207
high standard of living. But the tariff as a political sub-
ject is even of greater interest to the Political Mind, than
to specific manufacturers who may benefit under it ~
~ The Political Mind is not interested in the tariff as
raiser of the level of prosperity, startling as the asser-
tion may read, and I will attempt to prove it. It is not
interested in the tariff as a subject for political debate,
pro or con, because tariff is the driest subject for debate
that the mind of man can fasten on. It is not inter-
ested in the tariff as a defensive measure for general
industry. It is not interested in the tariff because the
tariff holds any vital place in the public head or heart.
And yet the tariff is ever a political shibboleth and a
favorite haunt of the Political Bug. Why?
When a man builds a house, he buys boards and nails
and window-frames and shingles. He hires carpenters
to work by the day or week, and out of their labors ap-
plied on materials he finally gets a structure that houses
his family.
He builds that house for a specific purpose, let us ~ay.
It adorns the neighborhood-in fact it may be the show
place of' the district, with fine lawns and beautiful ap-
proaches. But first, last, and always, the house is a
protection against the elements, in which a human
group undergoes the vicissitudes of family life. That is
not saying the house is beautiful, or that it adorns the
neighborhood, because it is serviceable. The house is
a house, and as such it is accepted. Beauty or adorn-
ment is superfluous.
208
Now consider the tariff in terms of the house. It has a
purpose to achieve, which is service to a group. But
does the Political Mind recognize that service? Yes, in
a measure. It recognizes that service as something con;.
tributing to its own enhancement. lf there were no
streets of houses, humankind would be living in caves
or tents-certainly not in the advanced stages of social
convenience of abode in whioh we find it today. And
it would not be facile to the manipulation of politics as
politics is "played" today. Persons living in caves or
tents would naturally be of a low order of intelligence.
The Political Mind therefore sees the tariff as a sort of
social convenience, accepted in its potency but abstract
in application to politics as such. This may be going
around the stump to express a trite metaphor but under
full elucidation it is more. . . .
The tariff is a sort of house that shelters the well-being
of Prosperity, protecting society from economic storms
and permitting those who dwell within it to live in
reasonable comfort of spirit. The Political Mind accepts
the house as all of these'. But it goes one step further.
It believes that the house should conform to certain
patterns of architecture when it is in the acclaimed loca..
tion. The Political Mind believes the house should be
made of certain materials-brick for instance,. when it
owns a brickyard. It believes the house should be con-
structed by workmen of a certain type-when it is run-
ning an employment agency with workmen to hire out.
C]f All of which is saying backhandedly that the Political
209
j,.,
Mind sees the tariff as a political expedient for its per-
sonal enhancement.
It cares nothing for the tariff as a great defensive
measure. It only knows that the tariff is prolific in
chances for making itself popular with moneyed in-
terests, association with which can fatten its purse ~
fJf The Political Mind has no use for the tariff, other-
wise. Self-enhancement is the first law of its nature.
lt sees in the tariff an instrument for self-preservation,
and the tariff tinkers are mainly those who Want Some-
thing, publicly or privately.
True, economic conditions change from generation to
generation. Foreign-trade influences strengthen or
weaken. The tariff must be changed accordingly. But
how often is it changed actually by students of eco-
nomics? Read the newspapers. Students of economics
have a fight on their hands from first to last during every
revision of tariff schedules.
The law of What-ls-There-In-It-For-Me supersedes the
law of Supply and Demand-and every other law :t,,•
fJf Persons whom no stretch of the human imagination
could ever make into economic students, promptly come
forward and announce themselves as saviors of all in-
dustry. It is altogether laughable.
Senators, congressmen, lawyers, advocates of public
reform and jugglers of petty interests, all climb into the
band wagon and shout, "Get aboard with us . . . we
are off to save the tariff!" . .
210
tJl~~~~ HE Political Mind abets all this in the exact
ratio that it has axes to grind. The United
States senator in a measure has a legiti-
mate axe to grind-and mayhap the con-
gressman-£or each represents districts
whose interests may be affected by too drastic tariff re-
v1s1ons. But outside of those is a great mob of syco-
phants and self-seekers-Political Minds at their worst
-seeking to influence Government for private gain.
Make no mistake about this: Not all senators and con-
gressmen, not all officers of government, are political-
minded. Some of our best office holders in America
have been our poorest politicians. Woodrow Wilson
was one. Grover Cleveland was another. Abraham
Lincoln was a third. This may cause a retort from some
quarters, for the Lincoln legend attests to the contrary.
But I submit that Lincoln knew human nature, not
po1
litics. Had he known Politics and been political-
minded in the true sense of abstract interest converted
into political profit personally, he would have been con-
tinually in office, or after office, from early manhood.
He knew how to play upon human nature and achieve
his purpose, and in a great crisis he utilized his knowl-
edge to a sublimated degree. But time after time in his
biography, incidents are shown, and evidence is ap•
parent, that he loathed and despised the Political Mind
and would have small part in its ramifications.
The Father of his Country had a similar complex. To
Washington, politicians and Political Minds were
211
~---·~~--~--------"
anathema. He even had no use for political partieS-'-
as is· indicated by his Farewell Address. He knew he
had to use them to gain his objectives in a statesman-
like way, but he was utterly impervious to the call of
office, and did more for his country after he had retired
from office than while he tacitly filled it.
These things are enigmas to the man in the street. He
blandly sees public office as a public trust. He thinks
there is something surpassing clever in the hon mot that
"a statesman is a politician who is dead," and yet he
pays his allegiance to politic~ans, accrediting them as
being statesmen in embryo.
"Given a politician prolific of opportunity and the
product will be a statesman," reasons Mr. Average
Man; who, by the way, is very rarely political-minded
himself. He sees public office as something that is
sacred, which is why he approaches public officers with
awe. He acknowledges in them a kinship with the
forces that operate the universe and-higher even than
those forces-the Unknowable Something he calls the
Almighty~~
Nowhere and at no time does he see human nature
grossly serving petty ends. Even the basest ward-
heeler, cleaning the boots of the party boss, is a subli-
mated ego partaking of divinity in his office holding,
and when he faUs or is superseded, Mr. Average Man
feels a quake of concern for the body politic. It trans-
cends his reason or intellect and becomes a part of in-
stinct. He does not want to admit~ven to himself-
212
that he can be hoaxed by those who hold political power
over him. He knows that he often is hoaxed, and re-
sents it; but he resents it because of his own self-
esteem, not because he worries about the governmental
structure ~ Z""
Given a group of men with as many votes as there are
voters, they will vote, or abstain from voting, not so
much from their political convictions as from the fact
that they want the civic order preserved.
They recognize the need for it, subjectively.
They want it preserved at any cost, because it means
the authority which must maintain over the other fellow
or-they fear-he will run amuck. They will, there-
fore, vote to keep the basest ward-heeler in power rather
than vote for the extinction of the tribe, bad though it
maybe~~
It is really a manifestation of social panic that ,makes
the ward-heeler, with his crooked politics, possible. It is
a form of social misrepresentation of government that
permits the political-minded·to seek office and gain pri-
vately during incumbency.
Men are inclined to feel that Politics as it is now con-
sidered, is-like the poor-omnipresent and forever
irremediable. They cannot see that the "strange force"
behind the Political Mind, motivating it, is social selfish-
ness, pure and simple.
I said that I knew a man who gave the best years of his
life and most of his substance toward "making" the
governorship of a certain New England State. He neg-
213
lected his newspaper business, made enemies, wasted
his time and assets generally, trying to attain to the
gubernatorial position. He had so bargained with a
young woman if she would be his wife, and was soured
and depressed when his Party did not reward his efforts
with the coveted ··prize." His motives were peculiar,
and highly illustrative of the point I would make ~
(jf The girl married him and they were happy otherwise
in their marital union-·-if happiness ever does come to
the wife of a newspaper publisher in New England. But
the husband never looked at himself in the mirror with-
out recalling his boyhood troth. Again and again he
turned up in the fight. He became the perennial candi-
date. Once he got as high as the lieutenant governor-
ship. But he never did make the top. His wife has
long since taken their bargain with a redeeming sense of
humor. Her affluent suitor had reverses of fortune in
the course of the years and is now the highly respected
proprietor of a corner filling station. But the husband
does penance each night in the dark. . . .
What a travesty on political leadership as statesman-
shipI I am not saying that this would-be governor was
not gracious in his private life, sincere in his obligations
toward his fellowman. orderly in his civic deportment,
commendable as a citi:zen, and an excellent editor as
editors go. .But Politics to him was a List of Chivalry
in which he must wear his lady's glove and vindicate
his honor-not to mention his lowly station as a
youngster-gaining prestige in the eyes of his wife's
214
relatives unto the tenth generation ~ ~ ~ ~
Having spent twenty years of my life as a newspaper
publisher. where Politics was a department of my busi-
ness. I can call similar incidents to mind. We have men
who go in for Politics because it gives.them the oppor-
tunity to work out land grudges. This is particularly
true in the South. I knew a man in one of the Carolinas
who tried for years to attain to a county judgeship be-
cause his father and an uncle had been basely cheated
out of a great tract of land whose boundaries were in-
definite. Not that he could settle them as judge, butthe
office offered opportunities for debasing and defeating
every action which might be brought before him in
which family enemies were litigants.
Men have gone into Politics for the sheer love of power
which they fancy is enjoyed by those highly seated.
What do they find on attaining to such eminence? They
are bound to the wheel of party perfo:&Illance, their
..power" is a farce, office-holding is a debauchery of all
their finer instincts, and they have retired broken and
defeated men-even if they have had the chance to
retire alive.
Which some of them have not I
215
';
~3l"~G"J~ET US for the moment then, glance into
the Political Mind as a social monstrosity
and see what we find in it besides the
selfish motives listed . . . fl[ First, we
find love of power, which is an alternative
to meanness of birth or station.
Second, we find conceit which enables the person in-
volved to rely on his office, instead of his character, to
bring him an accolade.
Third, we find love of money, which enables him to
gratify his animal appetites, however respectable they
may be-for no man goes into office expecting no finan-
cial returns, except in times of great national stress.
Fourth, we find love of personal display; since every
man who goes in for office knows that he must remain
continuously in the public eye and satisfy the dictates
of popular acclaim. To do that effectively, he must
dress conspicuously. So we are treated to the frock
coat and big Stetson hat that so often mark the small-
fry senator or congressman.
Fifth, we have love of personal appeal making for en-
hanced prestige in the man's own estimation, since per-
sons of ..real appeal to their fellows are scarcely ever
aware of it.
Sixth, we have love of cheap glory that cares not from
what source the acclaim may come-so long as it does
come and is sufficiently noisy and dramatic. No man
enters Politics without deporting himself with a dignity,
·he would not attempt otherwise, and while in cases this
216
is commendable, the Political Mind associates dignity
with success in attaining to the office, since its deport-
ment to get the office is frequently so childish that it
makes of itself an object of pity.
Seventh and last-and most deplorable-we find a trait
which makes the candidate depreciate his fellows even
to the point of looking on them with contempt . . •
that they should be so stupid as not to penetrate his
cardboard front and see the smallness of the soul be-
hind it~~
fl!:U~::U'3 HE NEED, nay the necessity, of the great
country of America today-in fact of all
countries throughout the earth-is for
statesmanship of the highest leadership.
But the Political Mind as such, is a bug-
bear, a necessary evil, an anathema to soundly thinking
men, and a travesty on political intelligence.
Given the universe without a single Political Mind, it
would run along nicely. We would have few wars or
rumors of wars. We would be able to conduct our
business with other nations with a minimum of friction
and mutual distaste. We would have opportunity to
exhibit our true selves as people of integrity dealing
with others of integrity.
And what a dearth of male feather-heads there would be
to pull the chestnuts out of the governmental fire for the
international, financial, and predatory racial interests-
that have only to load up a political system with such
217
_; .
in order to control it at their pleasure ~ ~ ~
Understand-me, I do not confuse the Political Mind with
the demagogue, although it is true that most dema-
gogues are political-minded. Also notice that I have
persistently used the term "political"-minded and not
"politically'' minded.
The political mentality is concurrent with the dema-
gogue's, and the two share single beds. It is equally
potent in destructive power when constructive states-
manship is the need of the moment, for immediately it
must determine its own conduct in terms of petty
strategy and level its achievements to the dictates of the
"possible" ~ ~
Let us look upon the Political Mind with compassion-
ate understanding, with pity more than with contemPt
on rancor; for it is either a case of badly arrested
spiritual development, or, to those versed in such mat-
ters, a Decadent Spirit seeking to reestablish itself by
false standards instead of undergoing the beauties of
rigorous experiencing.
218
THE EIGHTEENTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~ ~ THE EIGHTEENTH DISCUSSION ~ ~
ERETICAL as the statement
!~~~~li.i:ili~ may sound to some, and mak-
ing due allowance for the Polit-
ical Mentality, the tradition of
"self government" which we
Americans are "taught" is farc-
ical in one respect: It fails ut-
terly in naturalness !
In other words, it contradicts
fundamental aspects of human nature.
It makes the average American say, "We have gov-
erned ourselves ever since we have had a nation, there-
fore we are quite capable of governing ourselves in-
definitely ~ ~
It makes him confide to his children: "Our government
is the best that has ever been devised and the people of
no other country enjoy such liberty as we."
It makes him upbraid his relatives in the family of na-
tions, "\Vhen you g~t ready to govern yourselves, you
poor blundering idiots, come and sit at our feet and learn
how to do it." In all of which he is not merely an in-
sufferable prig. He is a lamentable ignoramus.
221
The American knows nothing of internationality. He
interprets it bumptiously as some sort of supra-national-
ism. He makes no efforts to understand his neighbors.
They are quarrelsome children toward whom his atti-
tude is one of condescension.
He has no racial erudition.
He considers it the height of folly to waste his time on
world politics, paying it the derogation of classifying it
with precinct politics in New York or Chicago and em-
phasizing the stupidities of international ward-heelers to
prove that his analogy is correct.
He sees no immediate profit, spiritually, intellectually,
or financially, in keeping abreast with world conditions,
unless he be in the export business, when his "studies"
consist of acquiring a few foreign tongues-that cannot
be understood abroad-and absorbing tariff schedules.
CJ[ The American is discreet in his inter-national life in
that he does not want his country committed to foreign
entanglements, regardless of the fact that his under-
standing of entanglements amounts to the same bom-
bastic stupidity that his understanding of internationality
does, and is the acme of indiscretion insofar as his world
interests are paramount to his personal interests. But
the American has no nationality as such. His political
background is colored by magniloquence.
I am an American, born in Massachusetts, a product of
the public school system as it was before the Great
Pollution from Europe. I have been manufacturer,
newspaperman, publisher, novelist, war correspondent,
222
sociologist, and now I suppose one might label me
political economist. But I was reared in all the ebullient
"patriotism" of the post-Spanish-War period when the
Grand Army of the Republic was still a power in the
land, and many of my gray-haired friends could recall
Abraham Lincoln. I fought my way up through most
of the trials and vicissitudes of the New England town
boy with his own way to make. Then this thing
happened-
When I was twenty-seven years of age, I became one of
five writing men sent out to the Orient by a religious
subsidiary of the Rockefeller 'Foundation to make a
journalist's survey of Protestant Foreign Missions.
When the Siberian Intervention occurred, I donned a
khaki uniform and went with the Japanese troops to
Manchuria. I will not say that my experiences in Japan,
or on the battlefields of North China and Asiatic Russia,
made me any less bombastic about the cultural advan-
tages of the American background. But emphatically
they widened the scope of my vision and gave me the
angle of trenchant perception of the American psy-
chology in world events.
I was brought face to face with the perturbing suspicion
that the United States, as a country and a psychology,
was not much different-or bigger-than the village of
Wilmington, Vermont, where I had once owned the
county newspaper. This gradually brought the reali-
zation that to those of us who call ourselves truly
patriotic, the United States is not a country so much as
223
a Christian Ideal-and grossly misinterpreted by pro-
vincial proselytes. . . .
True patriotism consists, it seems to me now, in taking
the best out of my country that seems beneficial to the
rest of humanity and offering it to the world in a militant
vigilance, at the same time realizing that no one country
has any monopoly on what the human race needs gen-
erally for its advancement as a species.
I returned home in J9 I9, convinced that this Christian
Ideal was workable internationally but that the United
States as a country was becoming little more than a
geographical location. I returned with the sorrowful
conviction that Americans as such no longer exist, ex-
cepting those in the provincial hill towns, or when there
are trade advantages sought by big corporations under
the guise of "American advancement.'' ...
Do not misunderstand me. I love my country as an en-
during ideal which I believe will eventually be embraced
by the principal nations of the earth during the lifetime
of the present generation, as the true foundation for an
international structure. But I do not agree with that
magnificent jingoism of Stephen Decatur, "My country
right or wrong." Such a policy I call the height of pro-
vincialism and arrested sociological development. . . .
I see gross faults and inadequacies in both my country's
Constitution and its civic structure. Neither do I concur
with my patron saint, Lincoln, that "the People" as a
mob are capable of governing themselves-that is to
say, governing without the offices of paternal leaders,
224
older spiritually than the average citizen, to determine
what is best for them. More and more I tend to agree
with Alexander Hamilton-in all kindness and loving
toleration for muddled human nature as modern life
finds it-" ... your people, my dear sir, are a great
beast." This is not a slur on the average man. The
erudite should discern that it is far from declaring the
American people, or any people, to be essentially
beastly. It is simply looking at history, and particularly
the developments of Ame,rican history, through the
spectacles of the surgeon or vivisectionist.
American history is one vast roster of events tending to
prove to the orderly and analytical-minded that people
en masse-even the so-called Aryan races-when left
to themselves, are not swayed by their intellects so much
as by their passions. The history of my country, from
the opening phases of the Revolution to the closing
phases of the great World War, has been one long
Armageddon of sectionalism of the most aggravated
type, swayed-yes ruled-by the most childish caprices
andjOanimosities. It has been well nigh impossible for
true economists to make themselves heard in govern-
ment at any time during the period thus stigmatized.
By economists l do not mean political theorists, largely
Communist-Jewish in charac'ter, acting as "advisers"
to the Roosevelt Administration. True economists, that
is, men capable of accurately estimating the nature and
worth of our recent economic system, and constructive
statesmen, have only been able to exercise their talents
225
and offices through the various mediums of commerce.
Commerce in its turn has "played politics" for its own
subsistence and protection, whereas "the people" so
dear to the demagogue, with the most infantile per-
versity, seem to have arisen against every strategic move
launched in government for their sensible improvement.
CJI It is a constitutional American reflex to hear of some-
thing logical and "be agin it."
The history of the Revolutionary War comprises a ten-
year travesty on social cohesion and intellectual admin-
istration of public affairs. Washington had to flog
many of his men at Valley Forge to prevent desertions,
while the Continental Congress. in its own turn pursued
a course that was one long and idiotic desertion of the
Commander-in-Chief. If it be argued that undue per-
sonal suffering was the cause for such discontent, let it
be stated that there was no real economic cause for such
privation. History of a nature rarely in evidence in our
public schools, records that there were colonists within a
hundred miles of Valley Forge during the crucial winter
that made Valley Forge famous, who grew wealthy by
selling foodstuffs to the British army in and about Phila-
delphia. The country, per capita, was of course far
poorer than it has ever been since. But a careful and
studious delving into the causes of the tribulations of
the Revolutionists, brings overwhelming proof that in-
dependence was won by a chaotic accumulation of in-
dividual units in Sectionalism, out of which the genius
of Washington brought order and military victory. It
226
was far from being a mass movement, intellectually
decided upon as a social compact for a constructive pur-
pose. Time and again the Father of His Country had to
castigate the colonial legislatures, even to the point of
effrontery and insult, to get soldiers and supplies. He
had to beg from door to door, so to speak, for united
support against the common enemy.
It was Washington who won the American Revolution
-only to retire to Mount Vernon with more odium and
obloquy on his princely head than is currently heaped
on Benedict Arnold. Little Americans are rarely shown
these phases of their country's genesis in their public
school ''training''; therefore they delude themselves
later with patriotic half truth and self-laudatory axioms.
q True, Washington's social intellectualism was ulti-
mately vindicated, and some would probably argue
from this that the American people are at heart intel-
lectual. One has only to read history, as I say, .not out
of popular third-grade text books but from such stu-
pendous compendiums of national psychology as Bev-
eridge's "Life of Marshall," to realize that this very
removal of obloquy was brought about through the
offices and instrumentalities of certain similar supermen
who came to the front and welded the thirteen strug-
gling and apathetic colonies into the semblance of a
nation~.~
No one, of any political party, I contend, can conscien-
tiously read the aforesaid "Life of Marshall," no matter
how biased he may be in favor of his party, without ad-
227
mitting that had not the first Chief Justice, and others
like him, stood out courageously against almost over-
whelming popular clamor, the American nation in any
one of a dozen crises would have ceased to exist.
Probably the most glaring illustration of public inade-
quacy to recognize what made for social solidarity and
national prosperity, was the popular attitude toward
both the first and second United States Banks. Scarcely
an incident is found in the history of our Constitutional
period where the populace was wholeheartedly behind
the measures and expedients which worked toward the
permanent establishment of the American Ideal in gov-
ernment. The people as "the people". were the con-
stantly disturbing influences that had to be cajoled and
coddled into what was most beneficial and discreet in
administration. Time and again they bit the hands that
fed them, until today it is an axiom that "Democracies
know no gratitude."
Of course it is true that man in the abstract does not
know gratitude, for gratitude is an insistence on proper
compensation of some sort for acts performed for the
social welfare, and until welfare is established by the
proper perspective of time on events, compensation is
not accurately possible. Only when Great Souls have
vindicated their policies before posterity, does compen-
sation accrue to them in the form of mystical penance
by the children of those who once scourged or crucified
them~~
The American people ·have always been tolerant and
228
kindly in their private lives and characters-Aryan
traits that are the outgrowth of Christian dogma, and
followed, or rather accepted, with a reasonable amount
of practical conscientiousness and a redeeming sense of
humor. But when it comes to exhibiting traits which
mark them as intellectualists in self-government, they
are in the position of the small boy who said, "I wish
my father were my own age, so that I could thrash him"
... taking no account of the parent's wisdom but only
desiring an effectual form for adolescent self-expression.
t][ Let us take such a people, therefore, as an institution
in world affairs....
HAVE nothing to gain by hurling pedantic
sticks and stones. I hope that I speak
from an unbiased worldly viewpoint when
I say that Americans on the world stage
are provincial and bigoted. They see
themselves as doctors, surgeons, and prescribers of
remedies, theoretically, for the rest of humanity. But
why do they do this? Suppose we examine in logic this
unusual trait that leads them to believe that they are
divinely appointed to minister to the universe.
I submit that it is the prerogative of the child in its lack
of worldly wisdom, to want to thrash the parent because
t:he latter will not concede that the child knows any-
thing. This so angers the child that it wants to enforce
its ideas when they gain no recognition otherwise ~
f:ll It is the child's prerogative to think in its ignorance
229
that because it has found its own toes, no one else up to
the moment has ever participated in toe finding, and
therefore its toe finding is something to be acclaimed ~
fJf I contend that it is the child's prerogative to be self-
conscious, or rather, overly conscious of itself during
those years when it is striving to fit itself into the pattern
of society as it exists.
I declare that it is the child's prerogative to want to
know more than it does know, but that the interrogative
psychology implies the self-expression of weakness;
and, to cover this deficiency, it adopts a policy of bom-
bast, on the principle that error or inadequacy may be
covered by an offensive attitude which aims to distract
attention from its insufficiency.
These points are common to all children and do not
deceive the wise parent. They are really indications of
developing maturity. The parent does not bethink him-
self to chastise the child for having natural and normal
inclinations and attributes. Rather he condones with
the child, and seeks to guide its positivisms into con-
structive channels, knowing that he, the parent, in his
own turn was at one time equally ridiculous and
annoying ~ :tf!
The American people constitute an adolescent interna-
tional unit both in time and historical experience. There
is no call to arraign or castigate them for displaying the
inclinations and attributes of youth, whether in the in-
dividual or in the state. The American people are not
to be criticized either, for their lawlessness, phleg-
230
matism, or collective stupidity, during a youthfully con-
structive period. They are not to be cajoled or coddled,
on the other hand, in their present self-delusion that
they are the only people enjoying the patronage of the
Almighty, that they can make no mistakes, and that
they can instruct older civilizations in ways of self-
improvement; any more than the child or the youth is
to be criticized, arraigned, or castigated for displaying
the bombast, conceit, and frequent petulancies of
adolescence ~ ~
It is no lack of patriotism which impels us to look upon
them as they are-nakedly-and, as social physicians,
appraise them for their good and) bad points, their
political chicken-pox or their cultural whooping-cough.
f]f I repeat, I hold no brief for my country because she
happens to be my country. I hold every brief for her
because she is young, healthy, vigorous, and going
through a period of adolescent growing pains with at-
tendant annoyances and aggravations. I hold every
brief for her because she was founded on the Christian
Ideal of fair play and equal opportunity insofar as either
is possible in a world where imperfections are permitted
for a purpose.
I look upon my country as a great world stalte that has
not yet come to maturity or into a proper sense of racial
obligation! ~ · ~
I look at her as a vast arena where great principles may
be challenged and vindicated, or shown to have merit.
f]f I look at her as a divinely indicated laboratory where-
231
J
I
j
in the best that is projected by all races may be brought
forward, examined, assayed, analyzed, and offered for
international use or international disapproval according
as its worth is determined by the microscopes of intel-
lectualism and universal sophistries.
My country is dear to me, but my forebears over many
generations came from English stock with a strong
dash of Irish. l can trace my genealogy back to Sir
John Pelley, knighted by Queen Elizabeth, for the Lord
knows what. And it is inherent in the Englishman
to tear himself to pieces, to say what he likes about his
own kin, abuse himself and his institutions to his heart's
content, but knock prostrate the outsider with the
temerity to indulge in similar tendencies. My country,
to me, as I have said, is both an Ideal and a geographical
location. It is not the concretion of a culture. There-
fore I can criticize her surgically with no dishonorable
implications. I love her and will fight for her, as I cer-
tainly am doing at present at no little hazard and dis-
tress to myself. But I will have no part nor parcel in
the twin theories, first that she can do no wrong, and,
second, that in all which her adolescence advocates she
is surpassingly correct.
Her position is not correct in something like ninety
percent of what she does officially. She is a greater
muddler in domestic affairs than England, and this is not
wholly due to a presumptuous Jewish influence, either.
She is a land without a foreign policy excepting that of
isolation, which is not a policy but a screen for timidity.
232
She is a land without a political conscience, granted that
any nation has one, a land of bombast and huckstering,
of knife-and-fork diplomacy and F. W. Woolworth cul-
ture. Metaphorically speaking, she revels in going
about in suspenders and imprinting boot-heel marks on
the polished floors of nations more sophisticated.
Figuratively, she chews tobacco and thinks a manicure
effeminate. She wishes other peoples to believe that
such practices indicate honesty, integrity, and virile
strength of character. She is altogether too prone to
offer vulgarity for sociability, excoriate the scholar, and
hoot at sobriety and official integrity. A movie star
passes into the oblivion of eternity and the streets about
the undertaker's shop are mobbed by his admirers. But
a world-famous college president dies on the same day
and the event is "good" for two paragraphs on the in-
side page of a newspaper whose front is smeared with
screaming headlines about the movie sheik's career ~
~ Such things are not deplorable, however. They are
simple evidences of my country's adolescent culture,
again looked at academically. My country on the whole
is the blatant hoyden among the nations, made worse at
present by a passing Administration of bedlamite Yid-
dishers. What folly, therefore, to say that she has the
best form of government ever devised or instigated,
simply because she lacks the maturity to realize how
ridiculous such a statement may sound to others.
My country is even insolent at times, when her swagger
is part of a foreign policy that is not a foreign policy.
233
-~ :
.But that is no reason why she should be described as
incorrigible, or that in time she will not lend herself to
a more kindly attitude and maturer judgment in dealing
with the world.
I am coming to a point now which is extremely delicate,
and yet this book would be deficient; in one, of its
strongest pleas for consideration if I neglected to ex~
pound upon it. . . .
That is, my country's attitude toward her sister States
as expressed in a League of Nations.
234
THE NINETEENTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
THE NINETEENTH DISCUSSION ~
HE UNITED STATES, I have
said, is a child-economically,
culturally, and politically-in
the structure of the social uni-
verse. She knows not where
to lay her head excepting upon
her own doorstep. When it
comes to finding a lodging place
among other nations as com-
patriots, she is in the position of the child who wants to
be friends with all the other scholars in the school but
refuses to go through that period of social initiation
making it one with its fellows. She hates to be called
backward in the international comities, yet fears to
exercise too much initiative in concernment over obli-
gations that may cost her more than the compensations
may be worth.
America's policy of isolation is not one of heroism but
of bravado. She does not want to assume her place at
the green baize table among the nations of the world for.
two reasons. First, she is fearful of them, her amateur
diplomats not knowing how to cope with foreign pro-
237
fessionals; second, she does not know how to behave
socially or culturally. The first she covers with bravado
like any adolescent who employs swagger to hide the
quaking of her own heart at the maturer forces arrayed
against her. The second she hides with an air of
superiority, or in other words, an evincement-almost
officially expressed-that her standards of right and
wrong, her belief in her own invincibility, her tendencies
to keep away from entangling alliances, are premised
on the theory that she has made greater progress gov-
ernmentally than any other State and should therefore
be accredited with greater prestige.
She is, of course, ridiculous in both of thes~ positions
and fools no one but herself. The other nations of the
earth, "backward" or not, smile quietly. They treat her
as a garish creditor from whom more favors may be
gained if they but play up to her vanity. They see in
America-governmentally speaking-a lucky accident.
A colony of Englishmen went to a virgin part of the
world and settled there. In due time they discovered
the prodigious natural resources in the land to which
they had acquired title by such pioneering. By Angl~
Saxon initiation, thrown on their own ingenuity in an
isolated hemisphere where the rigors of dimate kept
them active, they became a powerful coagulation of
political entities, with the psychology prevailing among
hill-billies and back woodsmen-of being sufficient unto
themselves, politically, economically, and culturally ~
t;Jf This attitude on the part of other world States is one
238
of condonement, or at least toleration, because, cul-
turally speaking, the majority of them are adults.
I am talking now of States that are ever eager to see the
status quo of peoples and nations maintained all over
the planet. True, certain major readjustments should
·be made, and could be made amicably if fears, preju-
dices, and military insistencies were not factors in in-
flaming racial animosities. But there seems to be no
way in which this happy condition of affairs may be
made permanent, even with America represented in the
councils of world government. The nations of the earth
have been schooled for centuries in the principle that
differences of race make for political fences that cannot
be leveled with impunity.
They know that to have a world government-call it
League of Nations, World Court, League to Enforce
Peace, Parliament of Man, or any other designation-
means a relinquishment ·not of territories so much as the
Ideal of Sovereignty in each instance, based on the cog-
nizance that each race must be a law unto itself or it
cannot endure.
They believe that to have a true League of Nations,
Parliament of .Man, or World Government, it is first
necessary to abolish the idea of separate sovereignties;
and the thought is abhorrent, being based on the pri-
mordial fright that the relinquishment of such sover-
eignties means ultimate annihilation, or loss of identity.
CJI They know and believe, or believe and think that they
know, that wherever peoples have relinquished their
239
1--
(
'
ideas of sovereignty, they have jeopardized and sur-
rendered their national characters.
They see in a world system of super-government, only
the opportunity for the ward-heeler or demagogue on
an international scale, or the Machiavellian statesman,
or the predatory Hebrew, to play fast and loose with
national integrities, and control a situation where the
race of greatest numbers, greatest wealth, or most adroit
intellects, can make a cat's paw of all the rest, or any one
of the rest, for its own selfish purposes and ambitions.
f]f This is virulent internationalism, as opposed to what
I shall later speak of as Internationality.
Nevertheless, they are adults, culturally speaking,
though their psychology in certain aspects may be that
of the thirteen colonies at the close of the American
Revolution. They want all the benefits to be derived
from amalgamation but shrink from the possibilities of
too close participation in a unified world system of
sovere~n intelligence dictating to them wha!t is the
greatest good for the greatest number.
They do not grasp the facts as to how they will be
benefited. They only perceive how they will be injured.
CJ[ They do not arise to the possibilities of ennoblement.
Rather, they sink in their discernments to the fatuities
of international mediocrity.
They want the benefits that accrue from world order
under super-government, but will not pay the price in
sovereign relinquishments.
They are perfectly willing to gather around the green
240
baize table and discuss Utopia, but cannot wean them-
selves from the idea that Utopia is always impossible
of attainment.
They delude themselves into thinking that there is some
sort of immorality in departing from the evils of indi-
viduality and embracing one another collectively. They
know, too, that the conniving World Jew is ever in the
background striving for a solidified world State, that he
may the more facilely perfect his strangling clutch on all
Christian peoples by ruling such State.
They are afraid of the Shadow of Internationalism, and
the wise statesmen among them promote. this fear be-
cause they realize that the prevalent Internationalism is
Hebrew-conceived, and Hebrew-fostered, for ultimate
Hebrew ascendency.
Men have ever fought wars, therefore men ever will
fight wars.
Nations have ever acted individually; therefore, to at-
tempt to act collectively must have the devil in it. The
words of Our Lord, "beat your swords into plow-shares
and your spears into pruning-hooks," are the shibboleths
of weak, insolvent, or easily gulled peoples.
Nowhere is there a panacea for the troubles of the na-
tions or the maladies of the races as races, because to
look for such panaceas would doubtless precipitate the
crowning cataclysm ofall time-Universality!
America's attitude and psychology in confronting such
rubbish is, on the whole, pathetic. She has the knowl-
edge and experience of her own Constitutional period,
' 241
with the certification of her own Civil War, to assure
her that unions of nations are no more impossible of
attainment, improbable of execution, or derogatory in
effect on individuals, than the federation of colonial
commonwealths to make in time a national government
of.them all, which is the greatest benefit that could come
to any political unit or provincial sectionalism.
She knows this from experience, I say, and is living
the beneficial effects of such supra-structure in her own
national life. Yet at the present time she negates it all,
turns a deaf ear to scholasticism, refuses to see inter-
nationally the very thing for which she sets herself up
in her own house, and outdoes colonial Massachusetts
or Virginia in squabbling with sister colonies over relin-
quishments of sovereignty.
The idea seems to be, that there is something inherently
wicked in the other fellow because his skin is of another
color, because he speaks a different language or spe-
cializes in a different type of food. He is certain to
provoke the worst social calamities if he be admitted
into the fellowship of international accord. And all the
time the other fellow is thinking the same way about all
the rest of the races. The trend of Universality must
of course be toward mediocrity, or-worse than medi-
ocrity-national nihility or racial sterility.
In some strange and mysterious manner, for all nations
to act in concert and solve their problems as a unit, is a
Lucifer of Imperialism that is going to he released, who
shall act toward the compatriots as a bloody tyrant
242
wholly apart from themselves, dictating the most inti-
mate details of their lives and refusing to let the more
enlightened, intellectually, enjoy any sort of culture that
is not entered into by the crudest and coarsest in the
international clan.
Men are no longer going to be men under that fearsome
dictatorship, but churlish vassals, having neither voice
nor influence in their own councils but finding them-
selves wholly at the mercy of the conniving, the igno-
rant, and the debased.
The scholar-not necessarily the idealist-looks on all
of it with his tongue in his cheek. He sees that the truth
of the matter lies in the fact that the politicians of world
governments sense in Internationality that there may
not be quite so many jobs, that they will not be allowed
such fecund opportunities to mislead their constituents
and set themselves up as arbiters of truth in government.
fJf It is the politicians of the world who are afraid of the
supra-state idea and clamor most "patriotically" against
it, not the masses nor the true world leaders.
The cheap and petty henchmen of existing orders in
each country are really those to whom the thought of
internationality is abhorrent and repellent. What will
become of them when sincere and efficient officials of a
great new world-order find them useless clutter around
the machinery of administration and compel them to go
back to plowing land or sweeping streets?
Even senators and congressmen, most vehement in their
patriotism against any sort of supra-state, are not above
243
pulling the cloak of a fancied official nonentity around
themselves to ·protect them from the gales of loss of
power and prestige. If they contend that virile patriot-
ism is behind their castigations of a great world-system
of government, how comes it that they daily betray their
sacred trusts for all sorts of social and pecuniary en-
hancements?
What is this bugaboo of calamitous Universality that
threatens the nations under orderly world government?
fJ Whence comes it?
What mischiefs can it do the individual?
Let us consider the common man in any walk of life
surrendering his "patriotism" to the nobler order. Take
:first his economic status. Will it possibly be improved
or injured? . . .
244
ti~2~~ HE LIFE of the ordinary man consists of
eight hours of work, eight hours of leisure,
and eight hours of sleep. The eight hours
of sleep can be eliminated under any
political system. Nature will see that they
are not infringed upon. His eight hours of play are
nonrdassifiable; he may elect to use them or he may
not. Some races play harder than others, many scarcely
know the meaning of Play under existing social struc-
tures. Some races play too much, particularly in warm
countries where too much work means physical deterior-
ation. At least Play is not a factor that might be called
essential when considering the economics of a race in
pure altruism. But when we come to Labor under a
universal world-system, and the rewards thereof, and
the expenditures that represent standards of living, we
are opening the door on a formidable problem.
The economic status of any nation's life, however, is
determined by the above three factors, Work, Play,
Sleep. The last two are not subject to much analysis as
factors. They consist of what might be called Recuper-
ation, as opposed to eight hours of application of man's
faculties to some activity that gains him his livelihood.
fJf While in a sense I am confining my thesis to the eco-
nomic order among so-called Aryan peoples, neverthe-
less any man's economic status is indicated by the sem-
blance of balance between these three. Steal sleep from
him and he becomes incapacitated, though he may not
realize it at once. Steal play or recreation from him and
245
~-
Ji
he becomes stupid without knowing why. Keep his
hours of work evenly balanced with his hours of sleep
and play, and you have a man who is balanced physi-
cally, mentally, spiritually, and-in a preponderant per-
centage of cases-financially. Now then, the problem
of daily living sifts to a process of preserving that
balance :1:-!¥ :1:-!¥
True economics, we find, is as simple as this: The
highest status of living that can be attained under any
government, or social jurisdiction, that enables the
human animal to balance his day into approximately
this proportion. Sleep is necessary to recuperate his
body. Recreation is necessary to recuperate his spirit.
Both are requisite to offset his expenditure of energy in
labor :1:-!¥ :1:-!¥
This is economics reduced to its simplest fundamentals.
Laws of supply and demand, the expatriation of sub-
stances, the willingness of social bodies to contribute
to the general welfare, financially or artistically, the
problems of transportation, the speeding up of machin-
ery, the scientific management of utilities-·-all these are
nothing but the finer interpretations of the crude essence
of Economics: allowing the average man in any country
to balance his labor-day with an equal number of hours
of spiritual and physical rest-that he may retain his
maximum of efficiency as a social unit. This balance is
so essential that many a so-called economist, not being
much of a student of spiritual values, fails. to recognize
it entirely except as a principle in abstract eugenics.
246
Given a man with the power to so dictate his life that
he can equally sustain his body, his spirit, and his
family, economically, and you have a citizen who is
capable of contributing maximum efficiency to any sort
of public activity--social, civic, or cultural.
The body is a peculiar machine that expends a given
amount of energy, for a given amount of values re-
turned. It must revitalize itself daily. The spirit may
be likened to a physical body of a finer quality of es-
sences. It too must have the chance to reassemble the
ingredients expended in labor.
The question of a man's economic status then, hinges
on his physical and spiritual well being; not the plane
of life on which he moves, or the social status which he
inhabits, since a brick-layer or a millionaire-broker may
both enjoy a high economic standard of living in their
own orbits of existence if they are well nourished, well
housed, and able to preserve the three-way balance be-
tween work, recreation, and repose.
We have so-called economists who argue that the intro-
duction of machinery into labor tends toward the up-
setting of those ratios in such a measure that they almost
cease to exist as ratios, that the artisans of the Aryan
races will soon have a three-hour working day in a five-
day working week, which, as machinery is improved,
will be still further reduced to a point where one day's
work a week, or one hour's work a day, will answer for
human sustenance with no diminishment in the status
of living.
247
In fact the standards of living will be lifted, since more
time for rest and recreation will produce a more intel..
lectual human product by the very nature of the cir-
cumstances ~ ~
But those who thus contemplate humanity are again
mathematicians who neglect the human equation and
eternal verities. ··Along the line of contentions of such
economists, the time might thus arrive when machines
would do all the work, and humanity develop into a
race of supermen because manual employment did not
enter into their daily categories. A line of simple rea-
soning quickly upsets their calculations.
In the :first place, if such trend-carried to extremes-
were true, we might have the laborless peoples of the
earth exhibiting the highest order of intelligence;
whereas it requires no world traveler to attest that labor-
less peoples are the most indolent, unexpressive, tur-
bulent, and static, on the earth's surface. Furthermore,
when you so upset the economic ratios, you not only
reckon on traits in human nature which do not as yet
exist, but you take from the Life Experience the very
thing which mankind is most intently in mortality to
get: Discipline!
Labor is self-discipline.
Make no error here. Without such mental, moral, and
spiritual discipline as orderly and lucrative labor pro-
vides, the group or the individual deteriorates so swiftly
that you can almost watch the process.
We speak of persons "rusting out" when they .have
248
made their fortunes and retired from business. By what
theory, divine or demoniacal, can it be logicized, that
when a whole race or species has retired from business
by having made its fortune in machine adaptation, the
exact opposite of rusting out will come into action and
a race of super-intellectualists result?
Human nature is essentially lazy. Self-improvement is
labor of the most strenuous kind. To say that the hu-
man race, divorced from the necessity for labor, will
flower overnight into something beyond present social
knowledge, is to deal in absurdities.
The human race, divorced from the necessity of labor-
ing, would indulge in such a splurge of recreation, sport,
entertainment, listless idleness, and general dissipation,
that it would acquire a tedium that would drive it to
suicide. Read again what happened to the great Roman
Empire when the spoils of conquest brought an utopia
of surcease from physical and mental exertion which
the short-thinking economists predict so rosily-blood-
glut and.disintegration;
We are wasting white paper to argue such a point. Be-
sides, this line of argument presupposes that mankind
is going to continue under the machine age to the point
that mechanistic invention induces a world of wizardry
where the pressing of buttons accomplishes everything
from putting on one's boots to encircling the globe in a
couple of hours. Nothing becomes so stupid and intel-
lectually sterile as those scientific novels of inter-
planetary travel wherein earth voyagers land on planets
249
"
'
f
where this machine-necromancy is brought to culmina-
tion. It is a sort of instinctive knowledge with such
writers that makes them mechanize their distant planet-
people as well, take individuality from them, give them
monstrous heads and no bodies, and refer to them by
numbers in lieu of names.
Mankind has no assurance that even the mechanical in-
vention and progress of the past thirty years are going
to maintain and expand consistently in the thirty years
to come. That is an unwitting error made by people
who are not well-grounded in divine esoterics.
Racial endowments go in cycles. The cycle closes and
a long period of social digestion follows, when so-called
Progress is at a cultural standstill.
Our mechanical age cannot be an exception. We would
be violating a sort of cosmic law if it did so. It is my
personal belief, based on evidence which I cannot enter
into here, that our inventive geniuses of the opening
years of the twentieth century are but the reborn souls
of a school of mechanistic Atlanteans, sent into flesh
again at this particular period to instruct and benefit the
species by their talents and discoveries, though they may
not always be aware of their identities and missions
while such visitations are in progress.
I think they have come into mortal life as a group to
supply a particular thing which our species requires. at
this particular stage of its social development, and that
they will gradually depart life as a group-just as we
had the Concord Group of Philosophers immediately
250
preceding them for similar reasons-and that after they
are gone, mechanical inventiveness will remain more or
less at a standstill until they are again sent to bring a
renaissance of their specialty in human culture and
carry society a little further and higher toward the real
Utopia of disciplined spirituality.
We are by no means going to run amuck in inventive-
ness to the end of all time. If this assumption were not
tenable, why should the race have taken such a great
stride forward mechanically and inventively in this
present generation? Why did we not have Ford auto-
mobiles, radios, and Graf zeppelins in the time of Queen
Elizabeth? Why couldn't many of our modern con-
veniences have been "discovered" in the Napoleonic Era
as well as today. The Napoleonic Era had minds just
as brilliant and perceptive in all other lines of human
thought as anything we can offer civilization as present,
and yet not one among them could "think up" the ordi-
nary flush-closet bathroom.
Men had the same types of brains, the same racial and
political ingenuities, the same number of hands, arms,
legs, in the Age of Pericles and Aristotle as in the Age
of Edison and Millikan. Those who argue that the
progress of invention and discovery is always cumula-
tive, one discovery building in more complex form upon
a simpler predecessor, seem to ignore that our species
has been on this planet for a long, long time. All the
present engineering skill in the world admittedly could
not today construct the Great Pyramid or the Temple
251
of Karnac. Greater architects and builders than any-
thing our modern civilization offers, have been in life in
ages long closed. Why have we made such trernendol':s
strides in the past sixty years in this one particular
branch of social evolution-the mechanistic-and at the
expense of esthetic culture?
Again we tread on the toes of mortal conceit when we
discuss such matters and submit such contentions. Man
hates to think that he is beholden to any Higher, "un-
scientific" Power for his cultural increments-which
again butters no parsnips in the light of Cosmic Truth.
Nor does it alter the fact that when, as, and if, he is
ready for cultural accretions in his upward climb, he is
mysteriously presented with them.
Economics is never the size of the figures involved, I
say-corning back again to our bricklayer-stockbroker
metaphor-in any man's plane of living, but rather
their application to the man or the group. When this
mechanistic cycle is entirely closed-and I think the
year 1950 will see the beginning of the end of it-
economics on the basis I have sketched will once more
swing back into a semblance of normality and we will
still be confronted with our Eight-Eight-Eight Equation
in some form or other as a premise for world welfare
and individual spirit discipline. Let us see, therefore,
what effect patriotism has on economics as we have
interpreted it-patriotism, that is, in the sense of a pecu-
liar sentimentality for the system of government, or the
terr~in, associated with one's birth.
252
For patriotism can be defined as nothing more nor less
than that: Sentimentality run riot in inhibitive frights.
«JI It is the old, old animal instinct which makes a man
or an ape associate the protection of his group or his
tribe, or the familiar scenes and customs of infancy,
with the mammalian protection that came from asso-
ciating with progenitors who simply followed a law
of nature in producing him in order to preserve the
group...
253
THE TWENTIETH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~ ~ THE TWENTIETH DISCUSSION ·~ ~
HE MORE one investigates, the
more one finds the foregoing
to be true. "Our country is the
best on earth," says the Amer·
ican-absolutely illiterate in
the study of government sys-
tems-because his father and
mother taught him such senti-
ments and he imbibed them
with his mother's milk. "Our homeland is the best on
earth," says the Frenchman, the German, the Italian,
the Englishman, even the Chinaman, because the indi-
viduals of all those races had the "protection" of their
own particular culture in childhood, and that sense of
infantile helplessness carries through into a thousand
manifestations of maturity.
People fancy, therefore, that adhering to their culture
brings them the same protection as adults, which they
knew physically and economically while dependent
children. This accounts for love of native land, no
matter how steeped in prejudice and economic order
that larid may be. It is proven by the fact that natu-
257
r -
_: '"'/
ralized persons become equally patriotic for the country
of their adoption when they begin to feel a sense of mass
protection flung about them again.
I defy anyone to name a single instance in which a race
has been able to cast off a psychological complex. If it
could do so, we would have internationality overnight.
fJf Patriotism, as such, teaches that the enhancement of
culture enhances individual security under that culture.
That has been demonstrated time and again most flag-
rantly in Germany until the great Wal'. Patriotism
teaches that a man can gain most by enhancing the
group amid which he came into physical life, which is
another form of Mass Fright, or rather, mass trepida-
tion at finding itself existent in a social world composed
of other groups similarly thinking.
Now the world is made up of these groups for a pur-
pose. That purpose is to bring out the best that is in
each group !--derived from the peculiar living condi-
tions of each terrain on which the specific group
functions ~ ~
You cannot have a group functioning independently of
terrain-at least not physically. Even spiritual groups
are identified with certain spiritual locations. This is
because groups are intended as derivers of benefits out
of localities and geographical locati~ns. No two of
these are exactly alike over the whole earth's surface.
The~efore each group, wheth:~r a village or a nation,
learns something from reactions to its terrain, climatic
conditions, food resources, or peculiar living habits, for
258
which the terrain is responsible, and not common to
other groups in exactly the same manner.
When this principle is firmly established in the minds
of sociologists they will set about declaiming patriotism
for what it is: Mass fright of provincials at the pecu-
liarities of other provincials!
Of course patriotism covers a multitude of sublimations
of this definition. It makes the individual see his native
land as something to be cherished and protected, for it
is the law, as written, that each group shall go on con-
tributing its peculiar quota of experience to world
society ~ ~
This law works both ways.
It makes the individual preserve the group for perpetual
contribution unto himself, and it makes the group re-
serve unto itself its own fecundities as factors in per-
petuation of itself.
Patriotism also makes the individual think in terms of
the group. It makes a man believe that the group is
omnipotent, no matter how disseminated it may become
by political or economic vicissitudes as they accrue. lt
leads him to believe as a member of the group that he
too is invincible-ultimately-whereas alone he would
be a stumbling-block in his own development, not being
able to function without group consciousness.
Patriotism says to a man, "Your 'ocuntry, your tribe,
your clan, your kin, have special errands to the rest of
the race. Unite with these, work with them, function
in an orderly manner within them, doing your part as a
259
'.
'
l
~!
unit, and the errand will be consummated." The indi-
vidual concurs in this absolutely, because concurrence
is one of his instincts toward self-preservation. He
makes himself as popular as possible within the group,
not because of the conscious acclaim resulting there-
from, hut because it accelerates his own well-being,
which in turn accelerates group efficiency, which in turn
accelerates the group errand to the race.
But consider this: Men as groups fail to distinguish the
.relative importance of their racial errands in regard to
the whole species, or rather, they misinterpret their
service to humanity. They think that the contribution
which their particular culture is called upon to make,
from their terrain experience, is the culture permissible
and requisite for all groups everywhere.
In other words, they take the fraction for the whole.
They do not distinguish relatively. They evolve con-
ceit of a nationalist order and want to cram all their cul-
ture, all their habits, all their peculiarities of social forms
and religious beliefs, down the throats of the entire hu-
man race reg:ardless of consequence. This makes men
bigoted with the worst possible bigotry, since it seeks to
accomplish by force of a sort what would be accom-
plished plausibly and normally by selection and merit-
in other words, peaceable penetration with its at-
tendant benefits and balances.
Men seek to benefit the species wholesale by retailing
their own particular culture to the entire race, whether
or not the race desires to acquire the particular brand
260
of goods which they have to dispense. Consider the
trouble which the so-called Russians of communistic
mien are piling up for themselves today because. this
truth is pertinent.
Races are customers of one another, or they should be,
in cultural values as much as in commercial goods. No
cutsomer in any commodity cares to have goods forced
upon him for which he has no use. This principle ap--
plies to nations and their cultures even more than to
business transactions, since the dispensing of culture by
force is usually met by force and resentment, and blood-
shed results that is properly called ..war." . . .
Customers are only good markets for any product when
they are allowed freedom of selection ·in the commodi-
ties offered, since the collection of payment is both dif-
ficult and unpleasant. In fact it is a form of robbery,
when a purchaser is forced into his purchase.
These fundamentals are known to every schoolboy in
business. In the commercial world, enlightened busi-
nessmen go upon the principle that "the customer is
always right" and that "a satisfied customer is a firm's
best advertisement." To please the customer is the
business man's shibboleth.
Think of the confusion and distress that would result if
men did business on the premise that the customer did
not know what it was that he wanted, and had to take
whatever the merchant offered, so long as the merchant
had the power to enforce the transaction. Yet that is
precisely what happens when races try to inflict their
261
Cf.
culture, or their political systems, on each other ~ ~
This world was never meant as a place of universality
of culture! Mankind would get no beenfit from his in-
cursions into it. The planet as a geographical entity
would have to be universal as to climate, resources,
faun~. and water distribution, if this were to be the ulti-
mate accomplishment. Peoples will be peoples until the
end of time, because the differences in peoples, based on
their differences of home terrain, have been decreed
by laws of Nature. And whoever flouts a natural law
invites calamity.
Oultures will be cultures until the end of time, because
out of each culture grows a peculiar Tree of Knowledge
having the balsam of an intellectual contribution with-
in its trunk, to say nothing of different manifestation~
of esthetics in its branches.
Until peoples realize this, we shall have a sorry time of
starting and stopping wars, and trying to explain our-
selves internationally.
But to go back to the economics .of patriotism, or
economics under patriotisms . . .
262
~~'2~l'a HE MAN in the street is conscious that his
group has some sort of earthly mission to
the species, whether or not he aggravates
this into the interpretation that his people
are the "chosen" people whom all others
should copy or remain uncultured. He knows that his
particular tribe or nation must contribute something.
Economics enters right there-economics as we have
expounded it-and becomes a factor in his efficiency
both as a unit and as a group.
Economics demands that the man in the street preserve
the orderly balance between work and recuperation, or
he devitalizes the potency of his peculiar group to con-
tribute its quota of culture to the whole human family.
But turning the whole matter around, and studying the
problem from the angle of internationality as affecting
the economic status of the individual, what do we find~
~First, we must lay down as a fundamental that inter-
nationailty-as such-is not the smashing or mutilat-
ing of any group for the universality of culture. To the
end of time, I say, and so long as natural laws persist and
govern the physical world, the racial groups and racial
cultures must maintain their individualities; else the
purpose of creation is defeated.
The proposal of true internationality is a bid for the ac-
curate understanding of the functioning of each group,
nation, or race, in the whole world family. It offers
each its representation, therefore it seeks to conserve
groups as groups, not to annihilate or even to assimilate.
263
It should seek to strengthen each group as a group, or
each nation as a nation, or each race as a) race, that each
may fulfill its offices to the other.
Take any given group and say to it, ..Thus far and no
farther, or submerge your individuality in universality,"
and you create a condition that flouts a natural law-
as I have said before. But say to each race, "Go as far
as you can in selling the human race what you have
to offer it, preserving as a merchant all the individuality
which you possess, but abide by certain recognized laws
of trade-the chief one of which is to Let the Customer
Choose-and you create a condition where all races
become brothers, spiritually, which is the height of con-
structive interpretation of Worldly Residence that will
withstand every assault of intellectual bigotry."
This clarification and emphasis of a great truth, there-
fore, precludes any argument from that particular school
of economists which lays down as a premise for inter;.
nationalism a universal living standard.
We of America do not want orientals within our borders
for economic reasons, we say. What do we mean but
that the oriental upsets the Eight-Eight-Eight Equation
of equal parts of work, play, sleep, whereas we would
establish the economic order on some reasonable sem-
blance of the ratio. The oriental would construct the
equation: Twenty hours for work, no time for play,
and as little sleep as he can get, with competitive eco-
nomic benefits. Witness the spectacle of John China-
man pounding his flatiron on your shirts far into the
264
night, while the laundry run by your white Rotarian
flounders in the mazes of an NRA code.
But this school misinterprets the economics of true pa-
triotism, if I may use the phrase, in that it presupposes
that an offering of whatever is best in each culture to the
race as a whole, does not mean an intermingling of cul-
tures on the universality scheme any more than at pres-
ent. Indeed, it means the antithesis of such interming-
ling. It means a sharper demarkation of racial cultures
and peculiarities than ever before; but a free, frank,
and equitable recognition of such demarkation. Thus
in time, if the Aryan's contribution to universal civiliza-
tion is the Eight-Eight-Eight Equation, it will of itself
permeate oriental culture, in return for something which
· the oriental has to contribute.
By no manner of means are we to conclude that the
whole world is to become a general mixing-pot for all
cultures, out of which boil we hook what we desire.
The nations of the earth, the races of this world, must
work out their characteristic destinies, not by wars,
but by vigorous recognitions that each has something
to contribute to the other, that each race is the product
of the terrain to which it is indigenous, and that "peace-
ful penetrations" must come about-if at all-by the
offering of such cultural valUes as accrue from such as-
sociation, not by forcings of cultural idiosyncrasies on
others whether wanted or not.
265
j
<I.-;;'
Of course we have a long, long way to travel before this
is generally understood by more backward and infan-
tile peoples, much less put into practice. No matter.
We shall have made a tremendous stride forward when
the Aryan and Latin peoples, precursors of civilization
as we accept it at present, lay it down as a' premise for
an international psychology.
Internationality does not assail patriotism; it becomes
its buttress.
Internationality does not obliterate races; it strengthens
them-or it should strengthen them so that they can
make their contribution to the human family with max-
imum efficiency and effect.
~i'Aj,~~~ NTERPRETING this in terms of economics
in the individual life, we find that in con-
serving and strengthening the group and
removing the bugbear of possible Uni~
versality, we give each group the oppor-
tunity to function centripetally instead of centrifugally.
In other words, by eliminating the fear of absorption in
a super-race, we give the individual the rein to become
more of an individual in the exact ratio that his group
becomes thereby more individualistic.
Given a freedom from international panic-in the sense
of fear of absorption internationally-the individual has
the license and opportunity to live his life in esoteric
balance~ Eight hours of work, eight hours of play, eight
hours of sleep.
266
It matters not what his work is, so long as he applies
himself to it constructively the calendar around, undis-
turbed by the intrusions of militarisms, diplomatic bun-
gle, and the disruption of economic and commercial life
attendant on both. By creating an atmosphere of in-
ternational good-will you are buttressing and benefiting
the true order of economics in the life of the man in the
street. This is simple reasoning. Yet there is a deeper
significance to it all, which we should by no means over-
look ~ :t_-.
When humankind, either literate or illiterate, gets the
idea firmly fixed in its head that loss of group prestige
cannot be threatened by international cooperation, we
will have a situation where accomplishment is possible
in unification of society politically.
Take notice, however, that political unification of
society, never means social unification, or religious uni-
fication, or blood unification.
Political government can be exercised abstractly, and is
so exercised in a thousand instances, without destroy-
ing racial or group integrity.
The United States herself is a glittering example of the
correctness of this assertion. Understand me, I do not
mean that groups or races being helped to self-improve-
ment economically according to the creeds of recognized
civilization, as in India, are being properly summoned
to political unification with those now helping them.
If a man purposely lives in dirt and squalor, and his
political mentor or sponsor would ajd him in getting out
267
of his filth and ignorance, that is no license for the
helped one to argue that he is being assailed racially.
We have the true assailment racially, and the true uni·
6.cation as such, not in present-day America or India,
but in certain aspects of Chinese. history where the
Manchus and Mongols descended on hapless peoples
and made them into other peoples at the point of the
sword~~
The difference between social improvement in living
conditions, or educational methods, and enforced ac-
quiescence to another's culture in all its aspects, is vast.
What I am trying to register is the thought that man·
kind is properly antagonistic to the other fellow's culture
because he thinks it will supersede his own; whereas no
culture, no matter of what sort, ever was successful in
being politically administered.
Politics and culture are as far apart as the poles, made
up of different essences, functioningin different spheres.
f]f Politics is the science of interpreting practically the
greatest good for the greatest number under a given
set of living conditions, and administering elementary
laws to that end. Culture is the science of a people's
interpretation of the universe, based on their reactions
to it, or rather, their instructions received from their
peculiar corner of it. And right here another important
qualification should be made.
Politics is not to be confused with Culture, I say. By
the same token, Culture is not to be confused with
Ethicsf ~ ~
268
A cultured people may be entirely without ethics, and
an ethical people may be entirely without culture ~
fl[ Culture says to a man, "Do this because it enhances
your own prestige in the social eye and gains you facility
in dealing with your brother."
Ethics says, "Certain things must be done for the good
of all men everywhere, and until they are recognized-
to say nothing of realized--there can be no lasting
social peace."
Now then, given a group intensely jealous of their cul~
ture but not at all ethical, and you have a travesty. You
have a set of individuals saying to the rest of the uni-
verse, "These things you must do to have us like you
and accept you, mainly because they are likable and
acceptable among ourselves." When a group says, "Do
these things because we have found pleasure and profit
in doing them ourselves," it ceases to be cultural and
becomes ethical in the highest sense.
Life wherever encountered is a process of Give and
Take, giving values and receiving values, making one
group rich at the expense of another, that both may
learn similarity of .conquest over the forces arrayed
against them as men.
Given a group that has no culture, but a great ethical
sense, and you find a group that has arrayed itself
against all forms of tyranny, repression, and ignorance
-a group that is exogenous, a purveyor to the race of
all that is best in nature and art without being offensive
in the slightest.
269
'>-
~ ,- <
~ -
i
;"f
It is sometimes hard to distinguish between Culture and
Ethics, but this becomes true if pondered: Culture says
to the race, "We are better than our brethren," while
Ethics says to the race, "Let us find out which amongst
us is best equipped, and most solidified in structure for
cosmic interpretation."
~~:&'2~:?J OW then, coming back to our discourse on
Economics under Internationality, we
must treat with the factors of Culture and
Ethics in no mean manner. When we say
that a nation has no home, what do we
imply~ All men have homes, for all men were born
somewhere and most of them have places to go at night
for sleeping or for shelter. "Home," however, has a
deeper significance than place of birth, intimate asso-
ciation with childhood, or comfort of the physical self in
maturity~~
Home truly is that location where the individual enjoys
the culture to which he was most accustomed during
the formative years of his character, making him the
particular individuality that maturity finds him!
Men have houses but no homes. Other' men have
homes but have no houses. Men have birthplaces but
possess no Culture. Men have had culture without
knowing their birthplaces. It is not a question of terms
wholly but a question of idealty of concept.
Given twenty different men, born in twenty different
places,. under twenty different standards of culture, and
270
you have twenty men who are breeding\ places for
deviltries when cast together. Why? Because they are
twenty men without accomplices to aid in representing
their home standards tq the others. They must do it
alone, each of them, fearfully wondering as to whether
or not they are doing it effectively. They instinctively
seek to do it by force, not of argument but of arm.
Put an Englishman, an Irishman, a Frenchman, a Ger-
man, and an Italian on a barren rock and you will
promptly have five fights within as many minutes.
They are five men lacking homes. They are therefore
distraught and intolerant one toward the other. One
wants to kill the other for eating garlic or sauer-kraut, or
persisting in a characteristic racial gesture, while at the
same time appearing as odious to th~ others for his own
characteristics as the others are to him.
Translated into terms of Economics then, home is a
place where people think, act, and function to a certain
standard, and all being satisfied with that standard they
accept that all men everywhere must embrace it, where-
as other men in distant parts of the earth feel the same
way themeslves and resent intrusions upon their own
standards. This standard being the Eight-Eight-Eight
Equation, or the correlation of the Work-Play-Sleep
ratio, we have the impression created and projected that
if it is not possible for all men to accept the one stand-
ard for a great many generations as yet, it is emphati-
cally possible to have cohesion between the groups
politically ~ ~
271
Who shall say that this is nonsense? Who shall say
that this political cohesion is not the only practical
standard under which the groups and races c~ ap-
proach or endure a common contact point without
jeopardizing individuality or cosmic destiny?
China was a land that went on for centuries egocentri-
cally making its culture the shibboleth of a hemisphere.
When Marco Polo went back to his prince, he carried
stories of a people so cultured, if not entirely ethical,
that he was cast in jail as a common liar. China how-
ever had no license thereby to go rampaging around the
globe making all other races Chinese. Yet every nation
on tlie globe at that particular period of history would
have been better off both socially and economically had
it submitted to China's beliefs and practices in her rela·
tions with other peoples.
You cannot have a people given over to conquest who
are essentially economic in their structure. You cannot
have a people given over to Ethics who are anything
else than economic giants.
Take the United States for instance. She speaks truth-
fully when she says that she has no designs on other
peoples-unless it be the Jews who have insolently
come in of late and declared they will be Messiahs to the
Americans whether the Americans want them so or not.
But the United States speaks truthfully when she says
that she has no designs on .races abroad because she is
essentially economic in her structure or organism. De-
signs on other peoples would tend to make her loosen
272
her economic bonds, weaken her powers of concentra-
tion, dissipate her faculties of application to business,
and scatter her units making for accumulation and con-
centration of activity.
America has the gift of minding her own business, and
while she may be generally hated for that trait among
peoples otherwise inclined, and while this minding her
own business may largely be the result of an adolescent
provincialism, she grew stronger and stronger in her
economic structure, and assured the Work-Play-Sleep
ratio with increasing certainty to the individual, until
she let the Jewish interests behind the scenes at Wash-
ington and elsewhere put the skids beneath her and
push her into the European world-war morass.
It cost her 40 billions of dollars and an influx of more
Jews to "fix" things, and things are still in process of
being "fixed"-to the tune of five billions more per
year. Industry is paralyzed. The Work-Play-Sleep
ratio has long since gone where the woodbine eternal
twineth. People do not sleep any more; they lie on a
bed in the dark and worry. America up to the time of
the Great Kosher Enticement of 191 7 was egocentric to
ideality and had been the peculiar illustration of a nation
that is ethical but not cultural.
Now while I concede that America's gift for minding
her own business has its roots in the timidities of isola-
tion, and while many of the nations disdaining her there-
for are motivated by natural causes not always within
her control, I dare to contend that America has a mis-
273
!-_
sion in this regard which other peoples of earth have not
as yet interpreted aright.
I dare to contend that America's isolation, with its at-
tedant ethical development, is a stipulation of divine
Providence for projecting a standard of possible and
plausible international behavior under which all earth's
peoples may profit as they perceive its economic and
spiritual advantages!
Most of the other nations, with the possible exception
of Great Britain, are cultural without being ethical.
They are built up on pragmatisms which they errone-
ously term Politics. They are constantly in turmoil,
economically and socially, because they refuse to con-
cede that there is any vital association between the
rights of the individual and the rights of the group. That
is to say, they dissipate themselves economically by!
constantly striving to impress on other groups that their
group is paramount in culture while the man in the
street is merely something that makes the group pos-
sible as an effective political unit.
This is not saying that all nations excepting the United
States take no account of the man in the street. Many
nations take more account of him, or rather better ac-
count, than does America or England. But it does
mean that America has restrictive altruism-in terms
of group policy and world alliance-down to a science,
so to speak, without meaning to do so.
America, and in a measure Britain, know that groups
as groups must always exist and be tolerated-not only
274
tolerated but accepted as such. So she permits her Jews
in New York, her Irish in Boston, her Germans in Milw
waukee, her French in New Orleans. She knows that
these races all have virilities and social values to con-
tribute to group welfare, that friction sometimes results
between them but that it need not be permanent when
it is understood that groups or races have the right to so
express themselves as their instincts may dictate ~
CJ! America is an epitome of what the whole earth might
easily become if all races would only show themselves
less cultured and more ethical, under the definitions I
have submitted.
America points the way to a world solution of racial
animosi'.ties-after the Silvershirts have corraled and
emasculated the megalomaniacal Jew-that breed every
sort of bloody antagonism from a riot in Spain to a
Chinese revolution. She is sound economically despite
the ghastly drain on her resources by the 1936 Roose-
velt-Baruch-Frankfurter bureaucracy. She is strong
poltically, but more diverse in her human elements than
any other country on the face of the globe.
I submit that American history is a forecast and proto-
type of universal world history in the thousand brilliant
years immediately ahead! That, however, is outside
the arena of our present discussion.
American history to date is a travesty on good govern-
ment and yet a bright and shining light and example of
what all races can do politically without losing their
1 I "d . . •
cu tura i entities. . . .
275
l~
c·-·---·--
We have then, states in world society in which races
set up or make for themselves idols of bugaboos based
on wrong application, or at least interpretations, of the
belief that any social group cannot relinquish political
control of itself or interests without jeopardizing its
cultural standards. These in turn affect, according to
erroneous conception, its economic welfare or the par-
ticular Work-Play-Sleep ratio that it embraces.
When men reach a point where they are willing tG con-
cede that Economics, Politics, Culture, and Ethics are
four separate and distinct factors in-or phases of-
worldly residence or cosmic experience, we shall have
an end to superficial nationalism with its attendant and
periodic social cataclysms known as war or revolutions.
fJf Internationalism today is in bad repute, just as the
term Politics is in bad repute, not only because it is the
fetish of Judah with cunning ends to serve, but because
it does not express accurately the true essence of what
it should represent to the world at large.
Internationality, I repeat, is quite something else.
It is not the destruction of cultures but the augmenta-
tion of ethics. It is not the absorption of fanatical
States attempting to make of themselves super-princi-
palities and rule all others, but an extension of ethics
governmentally to the end and aim that all peoples
may enjoy protection from depredations of those seek-
ing to enforce their culture whether or not it be wanted
or tolerated.
It is, or it should be, a mass movement merely to set up
276
a political structure which permits all nations and
groups to function as they will, and contribute what
they will, to earthly welfare peaceably and naturally ~
CJ[ Internationality seeks to conserve the very thing that
now is looked upon as being its greatest danger: na·
tional or racial solidarity. The true bridging of the na•
tions will come when universal mankind accepts the
principle just uttered as humanity accepts it in the Unit·
ed States, or as it is being vaguely realized by the Brit-
ish Commonwealth of Nations.
Nowhere in America is there any attempt to make Rus-
sians of Irishmen or Frenchmen of Italians. Rather
the various nationalities become more pronounced than
ever. But in the exact ratio that it is pronounced, is it
accepted as an asset in the body politic instead of an
imponderable liability.
Given a dozen races in America, one will furnish politi-
cal leadership, one will supply the greatest number of
capable financiers, one will contribute to invention and
scholasticism, while yet another will furnish inspired
musicians or capable fruit merchants. The Mexican in
Arizona does not squabble and start a war because the
Greeks in New York dominate the restaurant business.
The German in Hoboken does not start a riot because
the Swedes in Minnesota are predominantly farmers.
The native-born Vermonter does not risk jail merely
because the traffic officer who hands him a ticket for
parking in front of a hydrant was a native of County
Cork~~
277
r·-.~.:.•·
..·.·····...·
...·
·,
}
Ni
·-:~
'
'.
-.-
...•.. ·.· .
:_ :~
'
IJI
f:·
1t
!~ -
The only quarrel that all these races have with any other
besides their own, is with the Jew, because he is as-
suming a role in politics and economics all out of pro-
portion to his quota in the population, and is not smart
enough to keep his mouth shut about it and stop his
vulgar bulldozing.
All these nationalities under normal conditions con-
tribute their instinctive qualifications to the general
welfare and the political organism which is over them.
Making such contribution possible and permanent has
no more to do with the dozen cultures which these races
represent than flies have to do with manufacturing the
molasses ball on which they alight. All races bring
from different terrains and climates, different attributes,
inclinations, and psychologies. We profit from the
German's thrift, the Frenchman's cooking, the English-
man's humor, and the Italian's music. America merely
gives these races a type of government that assures
them freedom of expression for their attributes, inclina-
tions, and psychologies. It contracts to furnish security
to their persons and properties, in return for which they
pay the cost thereof in taxes without once stopping to
inquire into the absurdity of the federal, state, or
. municipal government's becoming preponderant with
any one nationality to the jeopardy of the individualities
of the others.
It is my expectation that I shall have much to do with
giving my country a permanent foreign policy that is a
foreign policy. It shall be a strong advocacy of adult
278
internationality on the lines laid down above-or here-
inafter to be depicted-but never a commitment to
Communistic Internationalism, or a kosher manipulated
World Court or League of Nations.
The mischief of conniving Jewry must first be forever
laid, and I believe that the American Silvershirts will
ultimately succeed in doing it in the United States as
the Brown Shirts have done it in Germany. English-
men must likewise purge their culture of the parasitical
Jew, who fancies in his megalomania that he is the
earth's aristocrat. Then these three great Aryan na-
tions should lead the way, as an associated triumvirate,
toward an Aryan-sponsored Parliament of Man. They
are strong enough to do this in political coalition and
give it an integrity that is founded on the principle of
Live and Let Live for all races provided they subscribe
to international law as hereinafter expounded.
To say that Great Britain could attempt to make Turks
out of Chinamen, or cast a vote to make the western
coast of America oriental, simply because she might
furnish a preponderant number of delegates to a world
political structure, is as absurd as to say that a pre-
ponderance of Irish on the police force of one of our
cities means a clubbing of all citizens until they become
Celts~~
To say that America would lose her freedom of action,
of individualism of deportment and idealty as a land
of constitutional rights and economic opportunity in
the eyes of world soicety, by paying her share of the
279
taxes that maintain a world police force, is as infantile
of concept as to say that the Chicagoan loses his Amer-
icanism by paying taxes toward a police force that tries
to halt a city's crime wave. On the whole he enhances
it, for is he not less an American, and less liable to
exist as anything at all, when gangs of foreign-born
hoodlums are tearing through the public streets spray-
ing the sidewalks with slugs from machine-guns? ~
fdl" Those who argue that history shows that wherever
one race has become politically preponderant it has
attempted to cram its culture down the throats of other
races under it, are superficial in their erudition, analysis,
and logic. This political preponderance has only been
the instrumentality, not the cause, of such a gesture.
Always there have been determining factors deeper
than the political domination which have motivated
those acts of lawless discrimination, precisely as in the
case of the Jew of today. Religion has perhaps been
the greatest. A different economic standard has been
another. Ritualistic social performance has been a
third. But such enforced cramming has been an at-
tempt of ignorant peoples, usually intermingling on one
terrain where one of them has no ethnological right, to
assimilate the other unnaturally.
The moment that an enlightened people, however pre-
ponderant, recognizes that instinctive expression of
racial attributes is a providential decree for the ultimate
good of the body politic, the oppression halts and social
profit commences automatically.
280
Another point that must not be overlooked 'in consider-
ing the analogy of an international police force as an
arm of the international political structure, is that the
very composition of the international political structure
should give an universality of race to the arm and or~
ganism behind it.
Further, before the fearsome "police force" comes into
being, there must be a predetermined, coded, and sub-
scribed-to agreement as to the functions, powers, and
spheres of action by which it shall operate.
People in general today, protesting against the bugbear
of internationality, consider the international . police
force as a sort of Gargantuan sentryman, reeling
through the streets of the world, controlled by no power
but his own caprice, and discharging his musket as he
has the whim.
The world today bears the perfect analogy to the west-
ern mining camp ·of a generation ago, rebellious and
turbulent, each man knowing his person and property
are menaced, each wearing his own weapons for individ-
ual protection and not getting it, yet all equally fear-
some and resentful at the coming of Law and Order.
Western history discloses, on the other hand, that the
coming of Law and Order sent the bad-man scuttling
off the roost, and no real peace and security maintained
until all men had thrown their side-arms in a pile and
surrendered their anarchistic prerogatives to the sheriff's
authority ~ ~
Where in the history of all the earth have two or more
281
nations pooled their interests for constructive, altruistic,
or economic betterment, that either of them has suffered
forcibly from the alignment, insofar as the other has
been concerned? Is it not true that wherever people
associate themselves together amicably and construc-
tively to promote the general welfare, that both of them
have benefited to a greater ratio than they have lost
in prestige by such independence?
Consider a Confederation for keeping the peace of the
world composed of America, Great Britain. and Ger-
many, all blood cousins by consanguinity and with well-
nigh identical cultures and ethics. All the remaining
nations of the world combined together could not pre-
vail against it.
Understand me, I do not refer here to leagues of petty
kings and States put together to accomplish selfish
strategies or implicate each other in personal quarrels.
I said "associations of peoples entered into to promote
the general welfare.
Get rid of the parasitical and conniving Jew and it can
be accomplished in reasonable integrity.
The time is fast approaching when "balances of power..
to meet purely military and strategic coalitions must
give way to alignments of similar cultures politically, in
order to minimize friction within great reserves of racial
strength. When .these great reserves of racial strength
are aligned upon a basis of similar or allied cultures and
consanguinity, there is a force generated that is prac-
tically impregnable.
282
Too long we have put alliances of States together on a
rule of thumb basis, or according to the whims or strate-
gies of potentates. Is it any wonder that perpetual dis-
ruption has been the history of these unions? Their
very divergencies of culture contain the seeds of ulti-
mate disintegrations. But when States of similar cul-
tures, and perhaps ethics, are brought into coalition,
there is a naturalness in their association that postulates
longevity and wedded tranquility.
The United States of America is an anomaly at present.
We are a youthful nation suffering from growing pains,
devoid of culture but rampant in ethics. On the other
hand, we are an epitome of all the cultures existent in
the world at present, brought together and functioning
irt groups under one political structure. We are egocen-
tric in our foreign policy; we are exogenic in our domes-
tic policy. We have opportunity to lead the nations of
the world into our own political structure, permanently
benefiting them and ourselves even as the thirteen orig-
inal colonies are shown to have benefited by federaliza-
tion. On the other hand, we play the role of the panic~
stricken child, selfish, petulant, and on occasion ill be-
haved, daring not to venture out into the highroad ex-
cepting as an adventure, unless the child across the way
·heaves stones, bashes our nose, or breaks the windows
of the house in which we live . . .
I have tried to show, up to this point, that an individual's
economic status is determined by his own physical well..
being more than by the amount of money he may hap-
283
pen to have at any given moment in a savings bank, that
such economic status rightly rests on the Work-Play-
Sleep ratio which preserves the individual as a useful
citizen enjoying the maximum efficiency of his physical
and spiritual facultie~
I have tried to show that this economic status so pro-
pounded, is effected, influenced and determined, by a
minimum of disturbances due to international relation-
ships, that those international relationships-to be of
permanent tranquility and constructive benefit-must
be premised on the realization that international gov-
ernment is an ethical structure, in and under which his
racial culture shall come to highest flower.
Now in our next chapter let us start to determine some
of the factors that are essential to the concrete founding
or rearing of such a structure, and what the true in-
famies, liabilities, and contingencies may be on each
component contributor, in the event that it is put into
effective operation.
For make no .mistake, America is coming out of these
doldrums with a maturity in her internationality that ap-
proximates the attaining to her legal majority within
the lives of great world States.
She must be captained l;>y a host of Aryan freemen,
knowing perfectly what her place in the family of na-
tions ought to be, and seeing to it that she assumes it.
THE TWENTY-FIRST DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
THE TWENTY-FIRST DISCUSSION
UPPOSE first that we take a
look at the much-mooted thing
termed International Law...•
tJI lnter~ational Law is a shib-
boleth for many persons who
believe that all law is the result
of human caprice. That is to
say, they think that human-
kind, desiring to force its dic-
tates on its neighbors but lacking the power, can accom-
plish the same results by a sort of super-legislation that
shall have as its support the potency of gunboats. These
people are but dangerous impressionists in their under-
standing of all law and its application to human conduct.
tJI There is as much difference between statutes, and
general public assent to any given statute, as there is
between a piece of paper and the words written on that
paper. Law is law only insofar as it transcribes a gen-
eral ethical understanding or limitation based on cause
and effect. Everything else partaking of the term is
merely a public prescription for general conduct.
You cannot have law without public assent declaring its
287
recognition of the greatest good for the greatest number.
Anything else is baleful in its ultimate effects, for it
prostitutes the spirit of law and makes a farce of com-
pensation as a principle.
When you get a law that says, "Thus far and no
farther," backed up by the will of the majority, there is
never any dguht that it is a law and will elicit obedience
without any necessity for cossacks to enforce it. When,
however, you get a law that is a mere prescription for
right doing, suggested.by a minority, not matter how
altruistic in motive or purpose, you get a hodge...podge
of emotional reaction that means defeat to the project
which the statute represented.
Law is law because it is the will of the majority, whether
written or unwritten, coded or uncoded! How many
laws are judged on this principle?
Understand me, the "will of the majority" is not neces-
sarily what the majority thinks, or says, or does-under
the stimuli of passion, excitement, or tumult led by
demagoguery-as so many federalists have erroneously
maintained. It is rather a quiet cognition in every man's
heart of what he wishes done for his permanent welfare.
fJI" True, he may interpret that welfare wrongly, but he
will never interpret wrongly the urge which makes him
decree for that welfare.
And in that urge is the law and the prophets.
This may he going far from logic in practice, but if
humanity would take a closer note of its basic urges,
paying less attention to surface passions and desires of
288
the moment-usually vitalized by empty sensationalism
-it would have a cleaner bill of governmental health.
fJl So then, let us take international government in terms
of international law-which in turn is law by the World
Majority-and see if it is workable under any of the
principles laid down as blanket law for groups.
Just what is international government, and can it oper-
ate practically?
Are its purposes worthy?
Does it coincide with fundamental tenets of human na-
ture, and what can it accomplish that cannot be accom-
plished by all governments as units?
Understand, this is not a plea for super-government but
a dissertation on its possibilities as a practical project.
I have no desire, now or at any future time, to augment
the world's troubles by helping to set up any super-state
that shall add to those troubles. But the time is increas-
ingly ripe for a consideration of some sort of interna-
tional controlling force that shall act on world states
much as the Supreme Court under Marshall acted on
the thirteen original colonies until it welded them into
a strong. self-confident nation.
The American Supreme Court did this without arms to
effect its decrees. It accomplished its purpose by a sort
of super-intellect reposing in Marshall a•nd exercised by
him through his office and associates. John Marshall
was the American Constitution in action, as the histories
of every country agree. That he happened to be a
jurist was onlv incidental. The fact remained that he
289
was a great intellect, purposely occupying a strategic
position of permanence in office where he could counsel
the American people to know their own hearts when
their inclinations were to give vent to surface passions.
fJf John Marshall was not a jurist but an influence. His
desire to weld the States into a nation was in advance
of his time, considered from the angle of the average
American psychology of the period. He worked with a
sagacity that was unerringly correct. The world-scene
is yet awaiting its John Marshall, and when he appears
we shall be cagey about endorsing and entering. Mar-
shall correlated the influences abroad in the federal
colonies and out of them brought the Master Influence
of the national government.
Now this national government did not abolish State
courts, State individuality, state interests, state :finan-
cial systems, or state police protection. What it did
do, out of the welter of the passions, animosities, and
complex proclivities of the times, was to set up a pool
of common interests in the form of a centralized official-
dom which should consider and attempt to solve prob-
lems and dilemmas which no State could solve inde-
pendently with permanence.
Marshall made the States realize that they were om-
nipotent only insofar as their sectional interests did not
clash with the interests of the continental people as a
whole. The moment they did that, it was selfishly
profitable for them to forego those interests and accept
the judgment of the Supreme Court-and Marshall in
290
particular-as to what was best for the body politic ~
(jJ Some of course might call this a super-State, and in-
deed in time it did become such. But has humanity in
this western hemisphere lost or gained by the realization
of this super-officialdom?
It is difficult for the present-day American to accept
that a period once existed in this country when Vir...
ginia looked with quite as much distrust on Massachu-
setts as Franee today looks on Germany. In those
times, those commonwealths were sovereign States
in the fullest sense and meaning of the term. We· col-
loquially call them States, or commonwealths. It would
convey a better picture to our minds to call them na-
tions. The nations of New York and Connecticut hated
the nations of New Jersey and Pennslyvania, and all
combined to hate Maryland. The culture of none of
these was alike. Their modes of worship were not alike.
Their outlook on political life was similar in principle
but antagonistic in possibilities for development along
similar lines.
In the case of Virginia and Massachusetts we had two
nations, six to eight hundred miles apart, whose very
climates were different, whose two orthodoxies were dia-
metrically opposed. Each was successful in its pursuits
as a commonwealth, and any coalition was aS"unthink-
ccble as a coalition between the United States, Great
Britain and Germany, is unthinkable to the average man
at this moment. Moreover, a wilderness far more pre-
carious and impenetrable than the oceanic highways
291
that now divide America from the other continents,
intervened between the two. But what happened?
Under the stress of a common danger they joined in-
terests-clumsily-grudgingly-and suspicious of one
another at first. But such cohesion was not so easy to
sunder after being once formed, for it did at least hold
military advantages a~ainst common enemies.
When ):OU have a State that must naturally seek aid
•
from its neighbors in order to exist, you have a potential
force toward a super-State. That is a law of nations to
which all history will attest.
Now then, instead of Massachusetts and Virginia alone,
there were eleven other such little nations, all linked
together by language, terrain, and hemispherical inter-
ests. The amazing thing was not that they came to-
gether in the federation which became the mighty Unit-
ed States, but that ultimate coalition took sixty to eighty
years to effect and cost a fratricidal, internecine war.
t]f States are groups of people with some sectional in-
terest that is largely determined by climate and terrain.
They are political in essence only insofar as govern-
mental methods are applicable. To their export of ideas
are often added such traits as blood peculiarities, certain
physical endowments, and lastly-but not necessarily-
a peculiar language or dialect. States, however, are coag-
ulations of abstract ideas, since history has proven that
all of the aforementioned assets may not save them
from completely losing their identities in a federation
or empire.
292
This happened in the cases of Massachusetts and Vir-
ginia until the schoolboy of today recognizes them only
as federal districts for facility in national government by
a Congress in Washington. Can the people of these
States, however, honestly claim that they have lost their
group individualities, their properties, or their patriot-
ism, by joining with one another in support of the federal
government and sinking their sectional caprices in the
more powerful and respect-compelling federal official-
dom? Have they not rather gained to the point where
State Rights are a dead letter-so dead that we now
lament every last drop of blood that was shed in the
Civil War? Sectional hatreds may persist in the South,
and doubtless do persist, but not because of the federa-
tion's success with a super-government. Rather because
of an abiding animus at wrongs committed against
southern properties and manners by northern troops
and politicians.
True, a hypothetical break-down int() smaller State gov-
ernments is necessary, to get the sectional business trans-
acted that cannot, and should not, encumber the federal
enterprise as such. Sectional interests and prides are
likewise the better fostered in order to give character to
the whole, than as if these hypothetical bourv:laries and
bureaucracies did not exist. People can think in terms
of a State and its limitations, where they would be all at
sea striving to judge the behavior of the nation as
a whole. But the nation as a nation is secure, regardless
of the harpings of demagogues to the contrary. What
293
is needed now seems to be the recognition that the time
is ripe for history to repeat itself and fo duplicate the
American Constitutional period in terms of world
politics. Again I say, however, it must be sounded off
on a premise of the consanguinity of peoples, not on
economic or military strategies.
This, of course, is hard for the practical politician, the
sectional enthusiast, and the individual theorist, to ac-
cept a: yet. The average American, or Englishman, or
German, is in much the same psychological status as
the resident of Massachusetts or Virginia between the
years 1775 and 1825. He shrieks, "What! .... take
our patriotism, our self-government, our racial heritage,
our splendid isolation, our exemption from Europe's
hatreds and entanglements, away from us?''--exactly as
the patriot of 1775 was ready to hang or imprison the
traitor who proclaimed federalization in New England
or the South. But acceptance must come ultimately,
for that is the trend of society today and no one man, no
one State, no one nation, can possibly deter it.
Eliminate the conniving communistic Jew with his in-
ternational strategies, and exhibit to consanguinous
peoples a manner of federalization whereby no one na-
tion among them can boss the show, or infringe on
national sovereignties, and internationality will follow
in a handful of years.
The trend of humanity is toward universal federaliza-
tion, I say. We have attained to it in the United States.
It is growing into tangible form in the British Cornmon-
294
wealth of Nations. I believe it will soon become potent
in a United States of Europe-Aryan led and Nazis
tinctured. Germany has already taken the first requi-
site step in her curtailment of the prostituting power of
the Jew. Riots, assassinations, and common murders
have lately been the order in Poland, Rumania, and the
Balkans generally-all from anti-Semitic motives. Col-
loquially speaking, the Jew is on the hot spot in Spain,
in Mexico, in Canada, in England, and to a degree in
Jewish-Bolshevik Russia. Today as I write these lines,
mobs are reported to be moving through the capital
city of France shouting "France for the French!" al-
though the gagged and censored news agencies do not
allow the news to come across the water that their whole
cry is, ..France for the French and not for the Jews!"
This morning's mail has even brought me a sheaf of
newspapers reporting violent anti-Jewish outbreaks
down in South Africa. Where next} Break the finan-
cial super-government of the predatory world-Jew and
peoples can then "be 'themselves," giving expression to
their inherent integrity and character, one towards the
other. But the cleaning out of the Jew must first occur
in Europe, probably led all the way to the end by- the
anti-Jewish elements under Hitler, or at least brought
to expression by Hitler. It is only a question of time
when the Jewish State imposed on the Russians will
collapse under the weight of its own crime and infamy.
One of the greatest Jewish pogroms of the world has
yet to occur in Russia.
295
I
!
I ~
~
I- -
After these, what? Is the trend then to halt? ~ ~
We may give this vague mass movement toward con-
sanguinous federation, names less odious than Super.-
State, League of Nations, World Parliament or Council
of Nationals. None the less, the movement is with us
and has been proceeding at a terrific rate, faster indeed
than the man in the street has any conception of. And
these Movements are never static. They may move in
cycles but they always move. The League of Nations,
the Parliament of Man, is nearer than men think, for
41
they do not see what is going on in the world, they only
·get reports. At the present moment those reports are
Jewish reports, containing only what the Jews in high
places want the non-Jewish peoples to know, thinking
thereby that they can avoid the evil day when they shall
~e called to an accounting.
The time will come, and shortly, when Nationalism as
pure provincialism and adolescent isolation, will be as
archaic as States Rights under the old Constitutional
agitation was likewise a gone metaphor the moment the
federal government set up its housekeeping. Make no
mistake here. The handwriting is on the wall.
This movement is being mainly accelerated and en-
hanced by modern transportation and international com-
munication. The thing that kept Massachusetts and
Virginia at variance with one another over so long a
period was. not blood-animosity, for Massachusetts peo-
ple could go to Virginia without molestation, and Vir-
ginians did business in Massachusetts without meeting
296
with mishaps, physical or financial. The real issue be-
tween these States was geographical. They could not
communicate with each other with facility. They
could not intertrade dexterously. They could not ac-
cept each other's viewpoints because each was provin-
cial in its general intelligence towards the other.
We know from history that the first great expedient
tending to bring the two sovereignties together was not
Revolutionary problems, or even John Marshall's grow-
ing influence as counselor, helping them out of dis-
tressing legal plights with one another. It was the in-
vention of the steamboat, and it did not come, and its
confederating influence did not make itself felt in
earnest until well after the turn of the Nineteenth Cen-
tury. John Livingstone and Robert Fulton laid America
wide open with trade routes when they hitched a crude
steam-engine to a cruder propellor, and the same motive
power was subsequently applied to a stage-coach on
rails. The telegraph followed fast, and the thirteen
American nations began q.iickly to recognize that State
boundaries were purely hypothetical, that State tariffs,
in the form of sectional animosities, were the silliest
lack of logic.
The States reacted to these inventions and improve-
ments with alacrity, and their increasing economic inter-
dependence forced the general government to take on
new powers, extend the old, and exert new functions.
The growth of the federated American commonwealth
was automatic. It came into being under military
297
r.~r
r
necessity. It increased in stature under economic fiat.
Today there are no "States.. in the catholic meaning of
the .word. Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania
and Virginia are mere husks of States, or rather, legisla-
tive districts for facility in district government. That
the people have profited is an inane suggestion. Any
schoolboy can describe the benefits. Yet within the
memory of this passing generation there were whole
sections which interpreted patriotism as living and dy-
ing for dear old Massachusetts, Virginia, Missouri, or
Kansas. "Grand Old States.. were the allusions of pul-
pit orators. "Grarltl Old Ideas,.. or "Grand Old Myths,"
would answer as well for those vapid orations that once
thrilled the multitude in pitiful provincialism.
The acme of "patriotism" before ·and during the Civil
War was to uphold the traditions and manners of a sec-
tion. And that. is exactly what the American people
are doing today in setting themselves apart from the
rest of humanity.
It is a strong statement to say that America is a myth or
merely an idea. And yet it holds possibilities in logic as
irrefutable and undecipherable as the analogies we have
made between Massachusetts and Virginia. America as
a country has no dividing lines of terrain or blood be-
tween it and the races which have contributed their
peoples to compose it. True, the oceans give it an
island aspect east and west, but America as America is
naught but the consensus of a political ideal. We speak
the English language in the main, but combine all the
298
other languages spoken within our borders and call them
a· group tongue and English is not spoken in America!
f:lJ We are the descendants of foreigners in the most
prolific sense. We ape the manners of a dozen nation-
alities and then have the temerity to hate the nationals
whom we ape, saying that they are different from· our-
selves. What a laughing-stock we make of ourselves in
the face of unbiased logic!
We say that America is conceived in liberty and dedi-
cated to the proposition that all men are created equal.
Neither is t~ue-or rather they are myths, political
idealisms ±.,.• ±-!' ··
We say that persons born in America have endowments
not enjoyed by other nationals, all of which is nonsense.
Many other nationals are born with rights and liberties
prohibited so strenuously in America that even the pro-
hibition itself is ludicrous.
We say that in America every man has his chance,
whereas he does not begin to have the chance for self-
government or self-expression enjoyed by the national
in England or Germany, speakin,¥ culturally.
The worst crime that an American can commit is to
attempt to stand out and be individualistic-·above the
crowd-above the universal mediocrity. Americans
.even go so far as to prescribe a date when straw hats
may no longer be worn in the autumn, and to flout the
prescription is to court a bashed head. The popular
term for the individualistic person is "crank," ..nut," or
!'freak" ~ ~
299
We say that America is the Land of Opportunity, as
though other lands were not, as though ten million
Americans, mostly Gentiles, were not walking the
streets at this moment looking for work to supply them
with the bread of life.
We prate of the protection offered by our flag, but any-
one born under the British. Flag has the whole world
for his journeying-place, not three thousand miles of
country jammed between two oceans. No one trifles
with a British citizen sojourning abroad-Britain sees
to that. Doe~ the American abroad travel under any
such prestige? Go abroad and learn.
Do you think me unpatriotic? Well, what is patriotism?
Is it provincialism? That seems to be the popular inter-
pretation in the light of a studious examination of his-
tory. Is it closing one's eyes to the defects of one's
country? That seems to be the popular acceptance
quickly discovered by one who would speak truth ~
CJf I am patriotic because my fathers were buried in this
soil. I am patriotic because I have made certain laws
which I like. I am patriotic because the world recog-
nizes me as a member-unit of a political entity that has
the gunboats to enforce its decrees on other political
entities. I am patriotic because my forefathers have
said, "It is good for us to be here," regardless of whether
or not the world changes and it may not be good for the
children to remain and dwell here after aliens have over-
run and besmirched all the institutions which the fore-
fathers founded. I am patriotic because the County
300
C:hairman has declaimed in running for office, ''We are
the greatest nation on which the sun shines and have
never been vanquished by an enemy." I am patriotic
because men come from foreign shores to trade with me
to my profit under conditions and terms which would
not be so profitable if I did not have protective tariffs
to codqle me in my commercial activities. I· am
patriotic because the sum and substance of my national
life are demagoguery in action, because in all my affairs
I choose to hear the eagles screaming and the cannons
belching toward my cousin overseas.
What a travesty on Patriotism? For true patriotism is
none of these things, but illusion-bombastic, and re-
actionary in disaster sooner or later, when some nation
comes along strong enough or audaicious enough to
challenge them.
True patriotism is this : An active knowledge of the
sum and substance of my living, expressed in terms of
health to my human brother everywhere.
True patriotism is the sending out of moral individuality
and mass integrity, cooperating with other nationals
everywhere to effect the greatest good to the greatest
numbers~~
True patriotism is the urge within ·ourselves as a
political unit on the world chessboard, to be a power for
constructive altruism-expressed in terms, not. of high
moral suasion, but in concrete acts of sensible bTother-
hood ~ ~
For when I put these definitions into material practice, I
301
am doing the most constructive and beneficial thing
which I can do for the welfare of my country, for those
of my own blood, and clan, and group, who have mis~
sions to execute in a world made up of purposeful units.
l am thus enabling those of my own blood, and clan,
and group, to register on other bloods, and clans, and
groups, what is best for all, and mitigating antagonisms
that would pull us down to ruin.
To cry bombastically, "My country, right or wrong!"
may be good patriotism for July 4th orations, but it
may likewise be the most unpatriotic utterance of which
a natt'onal can be capable when it thus aids and abets
national deficiencies that provoke attacks of disgruntled
rivals ~ ~
So international law must first be premised on a clear
understanding of the ingredients entering into it, on a
knowledge of the sources from which all law comes-
that is ever successful and accomplishes its human pur~
pose-on a realization that no one nation has any
monopoly on the human integrities or the human
ingenuities ~ ~
To define a country's permanent foreign policy on a
basis of isolation, and ignorance of self~deficiencies, is
to court disaster. To subscribe to any sort of interna~
tional law that offers as a structure certain exemptions
from perfect naturalness in universal human relation-
ships, is to sow tares knowingly and expect that the
harvest will be rich in grain.
We are a great people, but withal we are a young
302
people. And one of the bitterest lessons we have yet
to learn is, Jlot to be overcome by the greatest of
overcoming ~ ~
But we have only dragged the surface of this question
of Law in imminent internationality. . . . ·
303
THE TWENTY~SECOND DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~ THE TWENTY-SECOND DISCUSSION ~
_""",....,....,...,...,,...,.. STATED a few pages back that
international law is preponder-
ant with expressionism. That
is to say, individual nations or
groups make laws all over the
world that express their vary-
ing states of group conscious-
ness. The East Indian inter-
prets law as the will of his
grandiose princeling; his group consciousness rises no
higher than obeying the whim of some potentate of
higher caste, and he is more or less satisfied to do it
since no nation or people tolerate in entirety any legal
system of which they do not '8.pprove. The Aryan, on
the other hand, interprets law as a cross-section of the
individual consciousness-that he is part of the general
authority and without him no authority is possible, re-
gardless of the whim of his potentate, be he king, presi-
dent, or arrogant selectman in a little New England
village ~ ~
The Aryan, and particularly the Anglo-Saxon, has car-
ried in his blood from time immemorial the conscious-
307
ness of his importance in, and unto, the social structure.
No matter how poorly governed he has been, he has
uniformly allowed his potentate to exist and functi.on
by his sufferance.
The Latin, on the other hand, takes the peculiar posi-
tion that is half-way between these two, being a throw-
back to the Roman world under the Caesars. Under-
stand me, when I say Latin I do not necessarily restrict
myself to the Italian. I mean all of those races which
came under the sociological influence of Roman Im-
perialism after the Grecian decline.
The Latin, while takin~ his law capriciously, likes to be
ruled, even to bullying. He has an emotionalism, a
petulancy, an ardor, for the proper control above him
that is on the whole feminine and lovable in sentimental
aspects; but-like womanhood everywhere among ad-
vanced species-this ardor and subservience must be
accorded to one who commands respect, even though
that respect be tinged by the depreciation that accom-
panies sadism.
That is why dictators are possible, and function most
effectively, among peoples of Latin extraction. They
want to be made to obey a leader who is worthy of obedi-
ence, then they are proud even to arrogance, of that
obedience. You cannot take a Latin and make him a
self-governing Nordic, so to speak, any more than you
can make a woman masculine by dressing her body in
masculine garments. Women will be women because
308
it is their nature to be women, no matter how trite the
axiom. There is more behind it when applied to races
that exhibit feminism, than the superficial grasp.
Without meaning any specific disrespect to the Latin,
but considering him ethnologically, he is a hybrid of a
sort, partaking of certain cultural and ethical qualities
that come from north, south, east, and west, speaking
in terms of genealogical analogies. Or rather, let us say
he epitomizes all races, racially, as America epitomizes
all races sociologically.
The Latin contains within himself the subservience of
the oriental to the princely whim, with the pride of the
occidental that he is a conscious part of the State. He
knows that he is essential to the State as a State, but
more as a woman knows that she is essential to her
husband as a woman.
The Nordic indulges in no such emotionalism. He is
the impersonal masculine, slow thinking but positive,
ready to act after due consideration of a policy, acting
with all his powers once he starts into action, tolerant
and even childlike in his jurfsdictions a£ter he has
achieved his goals.
The oriental on the other hand is the instinctive--or
perhaps we should say temperamental-student. Con-
sidering him as a third factor in imminent interna-
tionality, we too often think of him as static when we
really find that he is contemplative. Eliminating the
East Indian, who is more or less a throw-back to the
Greco-Persian and who is not oriental excepting by
309
!-
residence, the oriental is the scholar and the philosopher.
To appeal to him we must touch, not his emotionalism
as in the case of the Latin, nor yet his actionism as in
the case of the Nordic, but his sense of intellectuality.
·Mind you, I said "sense" of intellectuality, not Intel-
lectuality itself for that is always relative, consider it
how you will.
The oriental moves slowly and only after due consider•
ation of the factors involved. Frequently he can be
fanatical, but only after he has made up his mind as to
the Whys and Wherefores of his fanaticism. Even
then he is contemplative. He is like ai great balance,.
weight on the emotionalism of the Latin and the action-
ism of the Nordic. He often partakes generously of the
cultures of other peoples-at present he seems to be
occupied in copying the martial manners of the Nordic
with a half-fearful·gesture toward some of the cultural
forms of the Latin-but he does so meditatively and
because he has thought out the reasons or had them
borne home to him by reasonable proofs. His soci-
ology is rarely rampant and he likes display and form
to take the place of positivism.
These three classifications of humanity, the Nordic, the
Latin, and the Oriental, are essentially human with the
same humanness in their relations to one another as
primates of a cultural extraction. They see govern-
ment differently because of their temperaments, but
only in a few freak exceptions do they differ as human
beings in their social relationships. They are born by
310
the same biological processes, respond to similar re-
actions throughout childhood, take mates when puberty
decrees, and give birth to offspring who in turn carry
on racial peculiarities of custom, dress, manners, and
religion ~ ~
Human nature as human nature is largely the same from
Greenland's icy mountain to India's coral strand, from
the steppes of Siberia to the sidewalks of New York.
Overpopulation, family misconceptions of duty, the
dictates of madmen in places of power, may disrupt the
racial consciousness for a time and cause practices and
bring about abominations which seem to the unlearned
to be ·wholesale departure from the ethical standard.
Having traveled in both the East and the West, I spea.k
from observation. I have seen exactly the same human7
ness of human nature displayed in a mist-lost stra:w
village in the Japanese Alps that I have seen displayed
in an. equally mist-lost village in Newfoundland.
Great indeed ru;e the departures from a seeming stand-
ard at times, often persisting .through several genera-
tions. None the less, the arc rif intercourse straightens
out the angle of precipitation, and we have world move-
ments that seem unexplainable, revolutions and qui~k
spurts of evolution, which cannot be interpreted except
from the standpoints of perspectives of years.
Regardless of all this, humankind could not function as
a species if it lacked the fundamentals making it a
species. And chief among these fundamentals is a co:(l'-
sciousness, exhibited or implied, that man has an obliga.-
311
tion toward his species in the form of duties and rela-
tions toward all his human neighbors. That is to say,
man-being a species unto himself--acknowledges
specie proclivities toward the determination of what he
is, by taking cognizance that he is his brother's keeper.
fJf Battle around it as you will, search the records of
every race that has ever appeared in the chronicles of
ethnology, and you will find this statement to be pre-
ponderant fact.
The very essence of his social alliances, the very nature
of his group intercourse, the preponderant tendencies of
his political aspirations expressed in tribal, national, or
hemispherical achievements, attest to this with irrefut-
able proof ~ ~
No matter how abominable or· abortive may be the in-
centive in its political aspects, every act of man's life,
from changing his socks to continental migration, dis-
closes to th~ careful student this self-evident actuality:
"I am my brother's keeper!" ...
Recognition of this may be manifested weirdly. It may
show itself negatively more often than positively ~
tjf No sooner does a king ascend his throne and get his
subjects pacified, than he commences to think that the
neighboring peoples would get a far better potentate in
himself than in the royal jackass now heading their
government ~ ~
No sooner does a carpenter saw a board, and nail it into
the wall of a house, than he begins to think of his
brother workman and what an artist at botc.hery he is,
312
and how he should see man number one saw a board-
and nail it into plac;:e-to properly grasp how the job
should be done.
People mistakenly call such instinctive concern, Pride
or Vanity. They do not stop to see it as a basic gal-
vanism in the human species that concerns· itself with
the welfare of .the other fellow either constructively or
destructively, and sometimes both.
It is only another phase of the old, old adage that "a man
is not a man until he is some other man's servant." ...
CJf Take this interest of men in one another out of the
human race, and you have a passive animalism that gets
nowhere and does nothing.
The true galvanism behind all human activity is noth-
ing more nor less than the consciousness: I have duties
to perform to others beside myself and family.
Every race is rich in history according as that galvanism
has been militant or static, aggressive or phlegmatic.
CJf The Hebrew race is made up of "Cod's Chosen Peo-
ple"-we are told. If God is Love, and one of the
greatest ingredients of Love is altruism,. no matter how
mistakenly or viciously exerted, does it not become
apparent whereof this insolent designation comes
about? The Hebrew people, more than any other since
the Atlantean cataclysm, have exhibited this concern
for the rest of the species, albeit they have done it in
vicious negativity.
Their conception of the one God, Jehovah, was com.-
mendable in this, that they made Him represent their
313
collective concern for the rest of the world by the in-
verse method of private monopoly. Their God was the
God of the universe truly, a sublimation of Moses, with
all powers of creation or extinction at His caprice.
Hebrews were the favorites of that God because they
fancied they obeyed His commandments and followed
His instructions. What were they really doing but nega-
tively expressing supreme concern for all other peoples
outside the pale of His benefaction?
If this were not so, those early Hebraic tribes would
never have bethought themselves to be the mortal re-
ceivers of the Creator's preferences.
Or again, when Moses led the Children of Israel to the
gateway oj their Promised Land, why should they have
taken counsel together as to its allotment among them-
selves if it had not been concern for its peoples therein
before them? They knew naught of those peoples ex-
cepting that they existed; but if one will read Scripture
carefully, particularly the story of the Exodus, he will
find page after page of what can best be described as
"political concernment" for those who must suffer that
the Israelites might profit.
Man is distinguished from the beasts in this regard, that
he thinks of the other fellow in terms of himself, not
always consciously it is true, not always in terms of the
Golden Rule-indeed quite the reverse. Even his
cruelties and malpractices have in them a transference
of himself in indignation or imagination into the plight
of the fellow so victimized.
314
Make no mistake about this, man is a universal creature.
Why it should be so, is not for present discourse. He
has come a long way on his present messianic ministry
to himself, carrying his cross willingly, profitably,
blasphemously, or mutely, according to his race and
racial temperament. But he thinks in terms of the other
fellow, seen through the eyes of the creature that is
himself....
Now then, with this as a premise, let us examine a
structure that might serve men politically and gover-D.-
mentally to give them greater freedom of racial expres-
sion with less obstruction from private·interests seeking
private profits from their enslavements.
What do we essentially ~eed to perfect a type of or-
ganization, earth-encompassing in its jurisdiction, that
permits the freedom-constructive and legitimate--
that lets the most worthy race enjoy its ennoblement
without danger or threat from the ignorant, malicious,
envious, and debased, with all intermediary degrees of
progress and selft:-expression down the rungs of the
ladder of world society~
315
1
,~
~~~[S!l3 ANKIND cannot have a society, any kind
of society, that is not predicated on some
sort of security-security of person,
security of family continuity, security of
property. Half of the nations of the
earth that we call decadent at present, certainly back-
ward in their civilization ethically if riot culturally, have
become so by nothing more nor less than insecurity in
their social concepts.
Take China for instance. Nearly four thousands of
years saw her culture maintained because her empire
was so big, its geography such, an:d the fecundity of her
people such, that nothing coul dbe brought to bear ef-
fectively against her security as a country. As a result
of this, China knew her period of economic flowering.
fJf India on the other hand, being more a geographical
area where petty potentates scourged the land with
their martial abominations, became the most glaring
example we have on the globe, of a civilized and highly
spiritual people reduced to mortal, ethical, and financial
beggary~~ .
These things do not happen by chance. Security is not
only good economics but good psychology. Man makes
two blades of grass grow where but one grew before,
in response to the urge toward profiting himself and
making life more enjoyable from either the comfort or
esthetic standpoint.
Nature has given man a body that demands sus-
tenance. Man has so complicated and multiplied his
316
activities as an animal that he would perish in half a
generation if he did not enhance the productivity of
natural earthly resource by artificial stimulation. This
is a law of physics more than economics. He must
hustle up Old Mother Earth or her mammalian glands
dry up and as a suckling infant he will starve. He must
hustle her up, that is,. by artificial stimulation of her
lacteal emissions.
That is the whole law of economic civilization expressed
in terms of physics. If a man cannot utilize, however-
or is kept from utilizing-.-that which he has made an
effort to realize, his commonsense and God-given reason
-elemental of operation-will restrain him from mak-
ing the effort after one or two experiences with preven-
tion. Multiply this by a continent and you have inter-
national intrigue in forms that are virulent.
Any people will go to war for a principle. But for
every race. that will war for a principle, ten races will
stay at home to defend their firesides-or rather, de-
fend the artificial stimulation of Nature which they have
attempted or succeeded in attaining.
Now then, take those ten races and say to them, "Across
the sea are ten other races rich in worldly goods. What
will you do about them? . . . Will you leave them in
possession of those goods, or go and attack them and
wrest those goods from them?"
The first ten nations will take counsel among themselves
as follows: "By going overseas and making this attach-
ment will we come into possession of more goods than
317
we possess already, and if we do, what is the cost to be
paid in reaction? Can we snatch those goods and come
back to our land-where we have profited to a degree
already and where we have possessions in hand-or will
it be necessary to seize the land as lands and occupy
them to make our clutchings permanent? If this last,
what shall we do with the human souls in occupancy?
Shall we put them to the sword or shall we settle down
amongst them as their rulers? Is their culture such
that ours will be assimilated, 'or will we assimilate
theirs? If our sons marry their daughters, what sort of
children will rise up to ultimately dethrone both of us?"
fJI These questions constitute the A-B-C's of internation-
al diplomacy, or rather, in a handful of sentences we
have the crude fundamentals of international politics.
When nation goes out against nation, the result is either
one of two things: The first will either come back laden
with spoils, or it will stay and take its chances on sur-
vival. Granted that it does survive, history is replete
with instances of world powers brought down to the
dust by misinterpretation of such simple fundamentals.
fJI Man has a queer humor to know the unknowable and
ponder the imponderable. This humor is responsible
for his being on earth. If he knows all there is to know
~r rather, all there is to be learned-from experience,
or if he were wise enough to foretell infallibly what
would be the result of every move on the chessboard of
life, Life itself would be quite unnecessary.
Life is a Finding-Out of that which must be experienced,
318
to be so found out in all its fecundities. Life is more.
Life is an attempt to approximate, in lesser mold, the
divine creation. And as all creation must proceed ac-
cording to standards or result in chaos, Life is essentially
the finding and fixing of standards.
Based on this theory, Life becomes a paradox. It seeks
to discover and it does discover, then it turns completely
about and becomes the thing discovered. Considering
Life as a paradox, has perplexed more good souls, and
made more atheists and Caligulas of them, than any
other source of mischief in the universe.
Yet Life, while a paradox of terms, is far from being a
paradox of ideas. In that exposition, I think, is the
Great Enigma's secret.
Consider Life now as a "finding out" civically....
Ten nations are intrigued and go on a migration, as-
saulting, looting, conquering as they advance. Through
some sort of credible evidence they must believe that
ahead of them there is more to be gained than they are
leaving behind. This applies theoretically as well as
actually. It applies spiritually as well as physically. It
applies as much to an empire that sends steel fighting
machines five thousand miles distant and indolently
awaits their return, as to lranus leading his hosts in
person over the mountain passes of Afghanistan. It is
no less true of a people driven westward over the plains
of Poland and down into the Danube Valley, than it is
of the country that sets up a commercial boycott when
its ships are treated with disrespect in port. We say
319
that Trade follows the flag, that selfish commercialism is
at the bottom of world conquest. But that is not true.
Or rather, it is a misrepresentation of facts in the light
of history. If Trade follows the flag, pray what does
the flag follow? Every result must have a cause.
Deeper than trade or flag, is the underlying motivation
of the hope on the part of a people that, by some process
or other, the mammalian glands of Old Mother Nature
may be stimulated to increase with less effort and dis-
tress to both children and mother. Always we get back
to the old, old premise: If a man can make two blades
of grass grow where but one grew before, he can raise
cities; if he can raise cities he can found dynasties ; if
he can found dynasties he can make himself so powerful
that perchance he can compel other peoples to grow his
two blades of grass, therefore he will get the same re-
sult in life sustenance without planting at all.
That indeed is Nature Stimulation lifted to a zenith of
sublimation, and is the true essence behind every urge
of peoples to fold up their tents and explore a new
country. They are magnificent adventurers, no matter
how shoddy in civilization. But they are more. So
long as they are capable of responding to that stimulus,
they are capable of enhancing the species; because they
are capable of thinking in terms of the other fellow,
whether he dwell in the same tent as brother, or whether
he dwell in cities afar as adversary to be conquered and
victimized into growing four blades of grass-two for
himself and two for his masters.
320
"""'"r71f'mr'Pll~ NTERPRETED therefore m terms of
world political structure, we find con-
fronting those of us who would effect it,
a strange obstruction. We say to human
nature for the first time in history, "You
cannot fold up your tents and go hence; you are for-
bidden to do it." Human nature says to us, "Indeed,
and who forbids us? . . . our couriers have brought
word that lying east or west are greener pastures and
purer waters, . . . have we not as much right to them
as those who now possess them? . . . did they not take
them from someone else? . . . why therefore should
we not seize them, since seizing is a process authorized
by Nature herself in the fecundities that we possess for
making the grab successful?"
We say to human nature, "Then by what right do you
hold that which you now possess?"
Human nature says, "Ah, that is different. When our
fathers came to this-our land-it was a desert giving
nothing. They tilled it and built barns·; therefore, by
right of improvement, we hold it."
We say to human nature, "Then may it not be true, as
well, that those whose pastures and streams you covet,
likewise have title by reason of improvement?"
But what is the answer invariably received? "We do
not argue the proposition in equity. Let those who think
they have title to either territory or improvements, de-
fend them both as we defend ours!" And forthwith,
the army, or navy, or migration, gets into motion.
321
This is a primary school method, of course, of expound-
ing the axiom that Might makes Right, that pre-
ponderance of arms means equity in the attainments
of those arms ; that the nation that can make its claims
good, is moral.
Very well then, suppose we accept· the dictum and see
what happens. . . .
The army, or navy, or the migration, gets in motion. In
due time it comes in sight of its quarry and achieves its
goal by bloodshed, threat, or diplomacy. It enters into
its unlawful heritage and either loots and returns, or
seizes and settles. The inhabitants of the attacked
country are killed, driven forth, or enslaved.
But what really happens over a period of time? Let it
be firmly established, that no people as a whole ·is
utterly killed or conquered.
There is no grimmer actuality than that matter or energy
cannot be annihilated once it is created. It may change
its form. It may be forced into other avenues. But it
can never be erased and made into nothing. The law
of the universe does not work that way, and until na-
tions, as well as physicists, realize it, there will never be
an end to calamities btween themselves ; for what ap-
plies to matter and energy, applies with doubled force
to mortal life in terms of race cultures.
A conquering nation may loot splendidly. It may trans-
port its loot back to the country it calls Home. But the
end is not there. The vicious forces have been set at
work. Vicious influences are loosed. Vicious traits
322
are projected and a great law of Compensatory Balance
is upset~ ~
That is to say, price must be paid for everything owned
or enjoyed, possessed or attained, for that in which
effort of any kind is involved.
The victors come home with their loot and apparently
it profits the looters insofar as physical substance is
concerned ~ ~
But Equity is not slain, and will not be suppressed. The
soldiers who did the looting, bring back the plunder.
But they have strangled themselves spiritually. They
have retrograded in the finer aspects of human char~
acter. They have become beasts of prey who would as
willingly-and often do as eagerly-become as much
despoilers at home as they have ever been abroad.
Every general knows that a conquering army, returned
home, must be kept employed or it immediately be-
comes a menace.
This negative compensation, however, is too elusive to
be descried or given much importance among nations
who look to war to benefit estates of government. The
real damage comes not in the grossness imparted to a
soldiery-bad as history has brought down to us in
many instances-but in the real effect of wanton ex~
ploitation as visited on those unto whom the spoils
come!~~
Labor-honest, backbreaking to:il to realize a given
product legitimately-is far from being the curse which
certain theologians or caste acclaimants would have us
323
.
\
believe, a la the fable of the Garden of Eden. Neither
is it noble or a blessing, as some economists and senti-
mentalists would try to persuade us, and eulogize in
murals !(I ~
Labor is a fact of life, divine in its import, visited on
man as a factor in evolution. It says to man, "Do this
and gain a result. In doing you gain in contributory
vicissitude and experimental knowledge. You see
other avenues of interesting activity open out from it,
or as a result of it. You experience feelings and sensa-
tions you came to earth to know. You learn patience,
diligence of application, stability of character, temerity
of address, profit of contact in relationships accruing
fromit ~ ~
Labor of itself is little or nothing. You earn a dollar
by it and spend the dollar. Your back is clothed, your
stomach has food. But these are only incidental to what
really has occurred, or rather, achieved.
You have progressed an infinitesimal distance in spir-
itual evolution, although you may not recognize it. You
have done something no beast can do, no matter how
hard it labors beneath its yoke; you have known a com-
pensation that is not of flesh, whose ramifications halt
only when you choose to halt them.
Your labor multiplies your human contacts. By proper
manipulation of your effort in proper coordination of
all your faculties, you lift yourself constructively higher
and surer in the prestige of your fellows. You open
more and wider doorways, giving ever-increasing
324
strength of it-mination to the lamp of your character.
tJ[ If all this be a ..curse," then God is a lunatic. Looked
at in the light of associated increments, Labor is not the
play of muscles or the galvanism of the mental faculties.
It is the function of man's being, whereby he knows
how to value that which has value, and by which he
learns the infinite possibilities of cosmic revelation ~
tJ[ Now then, a people to whom the spoils of war are
brought home, do what? They have received values
for which they have not labored, and insofar as they go,
those values are as merchandizable as any values at-
tained by the sweat of honest toil. But the people re-
ceiving them also receive a blanket invitation and op-
portunity to atrophy-at.least in spirit. Application to
daily tasks is lightened or ended. Spiritual interpreta-
tions of profit, coming in a continual fountain from hon-
est transformation of energy into the fruits of industry,
are aborted or halted. The populace gives itself to
games by day and reve1ry by night. Social conscience
is suspended. Moral lethargy takes its place, and society
as such commences to disintegrate. The retrograde
movement is at first so imperceptible that it causes no
comment, in the universal joy at release from expendi-
ture of energy. But like the small boy who would not
wash behind his ears because he said he always met peo-
ple face to face, the nation so jeopardized does not re-
alize that all contacts are not made face to face, that
from behind are coming incredible numbers of persons
and dangers, that eternal vigilance is the price of spirit-
325
ual progress as well as of salvation, that vigilance must
be exercised on all sides and in every quarter, or calam-
ity will overtake it.
Sooner or later, of course, calamity does overtake it.
The first great world-conquerors of historical times, de-
ployed out of Egypt. They brought home loot and in-
stantly gave their peoples a taste of values received
otherwise than from labor. They loosed forces that
rocked their dynasties. The minute they got rich and
powerful from loot, they not only relaxed vigilance to-
ward their enemies, but they fired those enemies with
envy that in proper time provoked return attack.
Cyrus tried to conquer all Mediterraneus, no less than
his Babylonian predecessors. His kingdom, rich in
spoils, was attacked by vultures within and without.
Alexander strode forth and gathered kingdom after
kingdom into his basket of rampant megalomania. His
soldiers returned home, lush with spoils, and his people
perished beneath the despotism of a power-drunken
army~~
Rome came to power and went the same way-the five
hundred years of her "glory" but a pathetic moment in
eternity~~
Napoleon headed the Red Army of bolshevist Franee
and strode across Europe, leaving it a shambles. Every
State that he conquered arose and took greater toll from
Franee, than Franee ever wrested from it in money or
in art ~ :t.,•
Twenty-one years ago, under the strategizings of the
326
predatory Jews, the Roman Idea c~me again to fruition
in the concepts of central Europe. Its operatings cost
the United States-a minor and distant participant-
forty billion dollars. What it cost the major nations in·
volved can scarcely be totaled-and just twenty years
later the same sizable conflict is due to break out again.
The only thing that arrests it is exhaustion of treasure.
CJ[ The conquering of the world has never been done,
and never will be done. From Genghis Khan to Bona·
parte, from Charlemagne to Wilhelm, the world-empire
lure has made modern history a comedy of errors.
And why not?
The world must learn that nothing is ever gained with-
out due Compensation. The world must learn that
mankind cannot whip Nature's second law: To work is
to live, securely and upwardly.
When mankind understands this universally, Utopia
will be with us-not a Utopia where n£en sit around in
golden robes and smoke Olympian cigars while their
women loll in silks and run their households by the
waving of pink fingers-.but a utopia in the sense of
society being obedient to natural laws, with harmony
and longevity the awards automatically.
The sooner those laws are recognizedr--or rather, the
sooner the Great Law is recognized-the sooner wi.ll
utopia become a practical business.
Or take another angle of our more recent premise: Sup-
pose a people fold up their tents and migrate to another
country, conquering and settling. Suppose they work
327
. I
'(
r
1~i ~
hard to hold their pos1t1ons gained by grim seizure.
What do we find contraposed-or in the violation of
Nature's Second Law? ...
S'l~2~3 HOSE people who lose control of them-
selves, so to speak, and see values in other
people's possessions surpassing their own
-so that they go and acquire those posses-
sions by force---have an accounting to
face, more vital in its effect on themselves than on those
who are so looted. Spoliation is a liability to a nation
only insofar as it affects the current generation or the
generation immediately following, or so long as the
plunder holds out and affects the lives of those who
"profit" by it. But in the case of those who seize and
settle, we have a graphic illustration of the sins of the
fathers being visited upon the children.
That is to say, the immediate generation, like the de-
spoiling one, is not the only generation affected; nor are
the generations succeeding, from the conquering fathers
-and looted mothers-sufferers under the effects of
the pillage ~ ~
There are the people, and the descendants of the people
who are conquered and looted, to be taken into account.
f]' When you have a people reduced to beggary, dis-
turbed in their national affairs, forced to flee from depre-
dation or submitting to it, you have a force generated
which neither the average man, politician, or so-called
statesman, gives the requisite attention.
328
You have a force generated and launched into existence
with all its destructive potencies, which is bound to re-
act with the most disastrous calamity on those who pro-
jected it ~ ~
This force is generated by disturbance. It is not gen-
erally conceded that it exists. Mitigating factors in its
destructive influence down a hundred generations, may
have a tendency to disguise its effects or make them less
d~matic. Nevertheless this force exists and does every
kind of evil, from disrupting family relationships to
breeding abominations in the thinking of citizens. It is
elusive when it comes to concrete perception in its
workings; all the same, its workings manifest, and I
wish to go into them a moment as an interesting side-
light on the Law of Compensation. . . .
329
THE TWENTY-THIRD DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
THE TWENTY-THIRD DISCUSSION
HEN a nation makes war on
w~~..........~...,...-il another nation, seizes its hold-
ings and diverts them perma-
nently to the uses of the first
nation, what, specifically, is the
thing that has been done? Not
alone the commission of theft
in its most flagrant and whole-
sale form-that is conceded
and laughed at as part of the great game of interna~
tionalism-but more than theft has been consummated,
more than murder has been left. A great mountain of
hate has been erected, which overhangs both peoples
like a perpetual Vesuvius, likely at any moment to bury
the surrounding countries beneath a smother of hot ash.
~ People are prone to laugh at this mountain even while
admitting it, or to scoff at its existence, saying, "Never-
theless we will live in its shadow, for the values to be
gained in national enhancements. We care little or
nothing for volcanoes as such. Die we must at some
time, and assuredly but once. Meanwhile let us eat,
drink, and be merry-on the spoils of our conquest'-' ~
333
'
fJI So ignoring the menace hanging over them, they pro~
ceed to interpret hate as a necessary condition of affairs,
and lie down in the midst of it without thought of the
morrow~~
In due course of time that· mountain explodes. There
are rebellion and massacre, certainly there is tumult.
Peoples rise against peoples and slay them in their beds,
or the military-always resting on its arms-is called in
and functions, deliberately suppressing the lawful de-
sires of the vanquished to regain what is their own. A
condition of affairs exists in which the conquerors be-
come armed guards over that to which they have never
had title ~. f!I
Generation after geneartion of this may go on, till the
original causes of the feud may be forgotten. Peoples
may assimilate peoples and the wrong seem to have
vanished. But wrong never vanishes until it is rectified.
.Witness the Balkans of the present. When the causes
of the wrong have become so obliterated that they can-
not be rectified deliberately and purposely, rectification
comes in other forms. These forms are many, and
would startle statesmen from their slumbers if they were
known for what they are.
Peoples cannot take the goods, lands, or bodies of other
peoples, and subject them to spoliation, without bring-
i~g definite things to pass. In the first place a con-
quered nation is usually a weaker nation, a less valiant
nation, a nation that has weakness in the social fabric
causing it to tear easily and expose the flesh beneath.
334
The nation which conquers therefore does this: It says
to itself, "We will go over into yonder land and take it,
seizing its inhabitants and profiting by its goods.., The
shortsightedness of the policy is overlooked in the lust
for immediate/ gains, for if the conquerors settle down
in the lands which they have taken, they are proclaim-
ing in effect, "We will deliberatly water our clean racial
bloods with the weaker strain. We will deliberately
subject our children to a bastardy of blood. We will
make hybrids of our progeny, and devitalize ourselves
as a racial group. In time we shall lose our racial char:.
acter by this process. We shall create a mountain of
dissatisfaction with our present institutions. We will
dissipate our present heritage among an alien people,
for put them to the sword we cannot. Such butchery
would be impossible. Their very carcasses would im-
pede our progress, and loose bloodlust upon our own
stock. Therefore we must either drive them out, sub-
ject them to slavery, or assimilate them. Driving them
out, like slaughter, is impracticable, for we would
arouse the enmity of those into whose lands the con-
quered are driven. We would only create a formidabl~
force against us, watching on the frontiers of the new
land for a chance to press back and reconquer that
which has been seized. Therefore we must reduce to
slavery, or a state of tribute-payers and foreigners, those
whom we subject to our victorious assaults."
But has any nation ever had within its borders a slave
caste, or a subject people, that it did not pay a price in
335
equity for their presence all out of proportion to the
profits from such vassalage?
A conquered people is an alien people. A conquering
people is a people having within its heart the incubus of
turmoil, disruption, and catastr~e. It is a people
knowing not on which night it may lie down to slumber
and be murdered in its bed. It is a people instinctively
recognizing the spiritual law of equity but consciously
and deliberately suppressing it and saying, ..It has no
potency that force cannot equal or outbalance."
Such a nation is hoaxing itself with the most stu-
pendous, artful hoax. It is doing more. It is setting
up for its children the most vicious and malignant of
paradoxes-that Might may make Right. It is saying
to its children, "Your fathers showed themselves to be
above spiritual law, therefore you have license to disre-
gard all law; for are not the children greater than the
fathers, being receivers of the fathers' wisdom in addi-
tion to their own? You are a· law unto yourselves,
therefore you need take no heed to any law of any
nation provided you can acquire the force that shall
thwart it" ~ ~
The children, by precept and example, believe this in
their thinking. And what is the result? The conquer-
ing nation settles into a slough of error that immediately
breeds more error--out of which comes a Frankenstein
of immorality, bloodlust and bewitchment, that
makes of the nation a gross machine for destruc-
tion or a namby-pamby coagulation of spiritual mis-
336
fits in a world whose format is Compensation ~ ~
I am well aware that races and nations, minded to as-
sault other nations and races and do theft and murder
on them, are scarcely possessed of those spiritual per-
ceptions whereby the well-being of their progeny is
thus recognized. Such races or nations, having no in-
herent love for their neighbors as fellow motrals, can-
not project love for their offspring very far into the
future. They are essentially selfish and certainly ego-
centric. They are content with the bird in the hand for
themselves rather than the two birds in the bush that
may one day sing songs or lay eggs for their progeny.
And this is as it should be--strange to say-for the
children of such forebears will be like the forebears, and
as the forebears deserved punishment, so will the
children receive it.
This may seem a cruel law, but until it is universally
understood why certain peoples breed definite kinds of
children, we cannot hope to expound a principle that is
equitable in its effects.
We have then, a people of given talents and .valiance,
attaching themselves to another people and temporarily
gaining. But the world today is in a typhoon of tumult
in that all up the years unlawful seizures, and group dis-
integratings resulting, have infected humanity with dis-
eases of hatred that, generation after generation, have
gone on multiplying, growing more and more malignant,
until the point is being reached where no palliative is
possible ~ b!I
337
r
r.•·
[
j,
r
r
No remedy is possible, that is, but a drastic recognition
of first principles, and an admission that the Law of
Compensation cannot be outwitted.
We have nations whose only desire now is to live by
conquest. we have nations whose only hope is to com-
mit depredations as a means to self-ennoblement. We
have nations that live from year to year in the roles of
opportunists, watching eagle-eyed for a chance to re-
dress ancient wrongs, real or fancied, and build them-
selves palaces on shores from which their forefathers
were long since driven. We have nations seeking by
treaty to penetrate other nations-peaceably-for a
time, that they may secure such foothold in fields foreign
to them and that make demands equivalent to conquest,
succeeding in wresting by those demands that which
their forefathers would have gained by the sword. We
have nations lying in wait to inflict an odious culture
on other nations, to overturn systems of free govern-
ment and substitute an eccentric oligarchy, deeming it
wise, in their own conceits, to prescribe that which
neighboring peoples should have and do. We have
nations deliberately awaiting the moment when neigh-
bor is set against neighbor, that they may cast the in-
fluence of their military power on the side that will re-
pay them with maximum advantage. We have nations
whose chief aim is the obliteration of other nations for
no other reason than that their .culture or manner of
worshipping God is obnoxious.
All these nations are set in the same world arena, exer-
338
c1smg on the same planet, and composed of creatures
essentially alike. Their animosities would be silly were
it not for the fact that they are wholly legitimate-that
they are the direct result of unlawful seizure transacted
generations ago and con.tributing to the mountain of
hatred that was birthed from such iniquities.
The nation that goes on a conquest and seizes the lands,
properties, and bodies of others, is therefore committing
the crime of crimes, not against its neighbor so much as
its own children.
This is a tenet which the megalomaniacal Jew is about
to learn terribly,
More than this, such a people is committing a trans-
gression against itself which may not be fully under-
stood in science and sociology for another thousand
years-to wit, that it is attracting unto itself, in the
spirits of its progeny, souls that are no better than those
of its forebears. It is deliberately shaping the char-
acter of its progeny, considered as a unit, in that it is
inviting into the bodies of such progeny all the unfortu-
nate, decadent, malformed, and unlearned, among the
characters in what may be termed the prenatal world,
inducting them into physical life and passing on its
heritage to such.
This is not Eastern occultism, theosophy, or spirituality
gone rampant in erotic mysticism. It is hard-boiled
esoteric fact, well known and recognized by the En-
lightened, attested everywhere in sacred script, and
doubly attested in life all about us.
339
. ::>
. : .;;
!,.;
'
i-
Nations whose civic codes are high, whose social life is
pleasant, whose habits of living are wholly desirable to
persons of education and refinement, are naturally the
rendezvous in life for souls of similar caste and accom-
plishment. They are made up of "people like them-
selves,'' whereas nations whose tenets comprise selfish-
ness, bloodlust, greed and filth, draw to themselves those
whose characters delight in such decadence.
Modern science, being infantile in spiritual recognitions~
seeks to explain this-and does explain it in a measure
-by the homiletic structure named Heredity and En-
vironment, taking no account of the mystery of counter-
positions of character and inclination, assumed by those
who constitute exceptions to the Heredity-Environment
theory. It is easier to assume that a decadent soul for
some reason or other has ventured into a higher social
stratum and become born into a nation, or station, to
which it does not characteristically belong, making the
exception referred to in eugenics, than that natural law
as expounded in the Heredity-Environment theory is
constantly violated.
However, this is not a metaphysical discussion. The
idea is injected here for those ready to receive it.
Every person living on this earth will admit, if he be
honest, that he knows in his heart of hearts that he has
lived before, but why and in what order, he cannot
attest. The theory holds, however, when we employ it
to buttress the doctrine that nations are its living ex-
ponents~~
340
Mussolini has said that he regards it as his sacred duty
to uplift Italy and put her back on her pedestal among
the nations. What is he doing but admitting in essence
that he is sent by the Great Providence that controls
these laws, to make of Italy a State in which high-caste,
kindly, and beautiful souls wan.t to be born and live out
another experience as mortal entities?
I am a reincarnationist in this: that I see no need of-
or sense of policy in--earthly life as such, unless it be
that existence is in its essence a beautiful adventure
from which we extract·spiritual values that we carry on
with us into higher states of consciousness. No one
can quarrel with me, I think, on this designation. The
quarrel comes in its interpretation by those who have
not yet reached that spiritual stage that permits them
to see the ramifications and concretions of the principle.
fjf But let us get back to our dissertation on international
conquest....
A nation goes forth and assails its neighbor. It en-
forces on that neighbor a form of servitude, conscious
or unconscious, deliberate or non~deliberate. It says to
the conquered,
0
Do as we tell you or we shall butcher
you." It takes no thought of reactions, impulses, or
denouement in characters. It is insolent in its insinua~
tions, overbearing in its fiats.
In time it does one of two things: either it receives the
weaker people into itself, diluting its stock as I have
said, or it becomes immune to hatred and goes on to
further excesses and violations of similar character but
341
ever wider in scope. In either event, sooner or later
there is the devil to pay.
Institutions suffer by reason of the injection of the
weaker strain and the detrimental effects resulting from
the contamination of a subject people. Or the errand
on which the offending nation started, is magnified into
monstrosity, and in the exact ratio that it meets with
success, it builds up an adversary of hatred, suspicion,
malice and envy, that some day must be reckoned with.
~ Bismark thought himself clever in building up Ger~
many on conquered peoples' assets. Fifty years later
Germany made a fearsome relinquishment of her gains
with interest compounded. Napoleon thought himself
clever in bestriding Franee and riding her hither and
yon among the nations of Europe, gaining affluence
where he rode. No one can say what the history of
Franee might have been, had the Little Corporal not
butchered hundreds of thousands of her sons and enN
gendered hatreds that began to right themselves even
in his lifetime. The hosts of the pagan emperors, from
Genghis Khan back to the Pharaohs, rioted among their
contemporaries for their little moment in history. But
summing up all their activities, and viewing them from
time's perspectives, to what did their grandiose activities
amount? ~ ~
Permanence of jurisdiction is shown to be impossible.
The survival of ha~reds, malformations, and abomi+-
natory influences, is seen to be colossal-moving down
the years in spiked boots and calling the children's
342
children to eventual accounting. Each war has to be
adjusted by a greater war. That in turn must be ad-
justed by a still greater war. And yet nations will
never seem to learn, any more than races.
We have the spectacle of modern America treating her
Indian wards and aboriginal hostages with discredit to
such an extent that wherever they have touched the
social body they have left a fester. The Indian today
is the gainer by the treatment accorded him-socially,
financially, and culturally, judged by our standards of
living-whereas the white man has paid and paid and
paid. True, he has not paid to the extent of extermi-
nation, but he has paid in blood and dollars, in criticism
and timidity of spirit. He has seen his Indian wards
triumph time and tim~ again in diplomacy, only to use
blind force against such winnings and put smudges and
smears on the pages of history that musi: be deleted,
expurgated, or misrepresented for children in the public
schools~·~
The red man has not been assimilated and never can
be assimilated. He is a concurrent liability, a deadly
sore, wherever he congregates and contacts white
society. He takes and he takes. He will go on taking,
until he is exterminated or his children gradually win
back the territory which he originally occupied. And
this last is not the absurdity that it appears at first
glance~~
Greater civilizations than America's in this twentieth
century, now lie buried under the top-soils of both
343
eastern and western hemispheres-civilizations that in
their day seemed even more permanent and omnipotent
than that now prevailing in the United States. A sud-
den tilt of the planet, causing a climatical change that
would drive the white peoples southward-causing
them to abandon their unlivable cities for another gla-
cial era-would see the red man revert to type and
slowly reinhabit those broad sweeps of terrain where
once before he was supreme. It is a fact well known
to geologists that a radical alteration in the floors of
either the Atlantic or the Pacific, caused by the proper
submarine earthquake, could elevate the waters of the
earth from twenty to forty feet. · In half an hour the
contours of the North American continent could be so
changed that all of our seaboard cities would be oblit-
erated forever. Our midwestern states from the Alle-
ghenies to the Rockies would become submerged-.-re-
verting to old Lake Agassiz-and living conditions
would be so altered that only remnants of our present
race would endure.
Let us not say in our conceit that we have conquered
or obliterated the red man. The fact remains that no
people has ever been the booty of other people with-
out compensation being exacted in perfect ratio to the
brutality, arrogance, ~r lack of equity, with which the
seizure was achieved.
This is a world of Balance. Again and again I say it.
It is a world in which Cause and Effect are equal and
supreme, the fundamental law beneath all laws; al-
344
ways preceed Effect. Sometimes we reap before we
sow. The old axiom had it, "We reap that we may
sow again.''
Laws as laws are adamant of expression else they are
not laws at all.
God Himself-theologically speaking-cannot trans-
gress them, for they partake of the essence of all things
created~~
Now let us take a new departure in our thinking
345
l
I
.)
.
THE TWENTY-FOURTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~ THE TWENTY-FOURTH DISCUSSION ~
LL conquering nations, I have
said, are impeded in their
progress by mountains of hate
of their own creation. When
those mountains tower suffi-
ciently high to topple of their
own weight, calamity is as cer-
tain to those beneath them as
the law of gravitation. But
where does this get us in a world of practical politics?
(jf Statesmen are not prone to be frightened by buga-
boos, or even the fundamentals of esoterics. Politics i$
the science of the immediately possible. When a group
of men decide that war is feasible, they are thinking in
terms of the present generation and the problems of the
moment, bequeathing to their children the problems of
the future resulting from their decisions. Statesmen are
not children, at least in world vision. They are hard-
headed sophists who must have their hands on two dol-
lars before they will let their one dollar slip. They are
men who have been through experiences that tend to
make them ruthless in the application of abstract prin-
349
ciples, provided those principles are sufficiently provo-
cative. They see only the problem of the moment, and
if they sense the problems of the future, they leave to
posterity the finding of solutions. Many a statesman
has said to himself, "Our fathers bequeathed their
problems to us, so why should we not give our children
our problems for solution?"-wholly ignoring the fact
that some problems are incapable of solution and that
the bequest of such is an annihilation of the right of
bequest~~
Now, no generation has the right to pass on to its
progeny an imponderable equation. That is not be-
quest in its bona fide sense.
It is malignant cowardice and introvert sin.
It is saying to the children, "We damn you with our
incurable disease, we visit on you our sins against the
Holy Spirit, knowing in advance that they are unfor•
givable''~ ~
When nations or statesmen do this, they are dealing in
imponderables themselves-imponderables, that is, in a
sense of absolutions and discrepancies to which they
have no more license than Lucifer had license to inherit
High Heaven. They are taking monsters of their own
creation, setting them up as deities, and expecting them,
and permitting them, to be fed with the living bodies
of their progeny.
The law of construction, of progress, of charity, of edu-
cation, of forward ethical movement, is the Law of! Sur-
vival. Its penalty for violation is non-survival. The
350
extinction of the violator may come instantly or over a
span of generations; but it comes unerringly, as all
historical and religious doctrine attests without an
argument~~
Nations which disregard these laws not only court
calamity but encounter catastrophe. They dig their
own graves as inexorably as the dictum that a living
child cannot be stopped from becoming an adult by
encasing its body in a block of cement.
You cannot have a nation build permanently on blood-
shed. No peoples can rise to grandeur on the bodies of
conquered serfs-it has never been done and never will
be done. Looking back at history, even the compara-
tively short span of 5,000 years, those races that have
survived every catastrophe of man and Nature, have
been those that stayed peaceably at home on the terrain
allotted to them by Providence, coveted no spoils,
looked for no worldly advancement from beyond their
horizons ~ ~
China is, of course, our outstanding example. The
latest ethnological estimates have it that China has per-
sisted upwards of 25,000 years as a culture unto her-
self, unconquered and unconquerable. The written
records of China go back only 4,000 to 5,000 years, but
it must have been at least 20,000 years before they be-
gan, that the Chinese culture came out of the Lemurian.
In all that time, China has entertained no inherent war-
like designs on her neighbors, asked little of them that
she did not pay for, peaceably evolved for herself those
351
.,
l
J
J
j
{
. i
,
j
I
social values that have kept her intact for the last 250
centuries, so long a time back that it requires informa-
tion from Tibetan monasteries to tell us the truth about
her origin and longevity.
If the argument be advanced that at some time or other
China must have played the role of conqueror and there-
fore my theory is fallacious, I refer you to ethnology and
even anthropology-excavated crania tell the story
even though esoteric sources be disregarded.
If the contention be interposed that many, many times
the Chinese have been conquered, I make the stipulation
that for a real conquering there must be a permanency
to the conquest, till one nation or the other is shown to
be permanent. The nomad Mongols who did most of
the conquering of China within comparatively recent
times were temporary looters who swiftly passed from
the stage of history or were absorbed by the Chinese
people themselves. They left only a reigning caste to
show that they existed.
Incidentally, those Mongols were not Chinese, but
quickly enough did the Chinese culture swamp them.
The Tibetan Palao-Alpines were not Chinese. The
Chinese of the Middle Kingdom-the true Chinese-
originated in the valley of the Wei River. They were a
sedentary, agricultural people organized in a series of
small city States and surrounded on all sides by "bar-
barians." They were as nearly a pure and unadulterated
race-as races are conceived in modern times or since
the great Pacific catastrophe of 80,000 years ago, doli-
352
chocephalic. in crania in the center of a vast ring of
brachycephali-as we have any ethnological record in
in the history of the species.
Caspian and Mongol, which included the Iranian crossed
with the Tatar, impinged on this people on the north,
from far, far back in Neolithic times. People of Alpine
stock came in from the west. The Proto-negroids, the
Proto-australoids, and the negritic aborigines, inter-
penetrated from the south. Regardless of these, the
Chinese kept strongly egocentric, tenacious and resili-
ent, the toughest social fabric that has ever appeared on
the modern earth. They launched no wars, cared not
for the rest of the world, were intent on pursuing their
own culture, and absorbed as gigantic an influx o,£
humanity as the horde under Genghis Khan to the utter
extinction of the latter as a race, as I have stated.
What can be said for the Chinese as a race can be said
for many of the lesser races-the Dravidians of India,
the Picts of Britain, the negroids of Africa. Wherever
a race has attended to its own household, entertained no
lawful or unlawful designs against its neighbors, valued
its own heritage and "come clean" in the councils of
internationality, it has prospered in the sense of racial
endurance ~ ~
Wherever races have picked up their tents and women,
their flocks and their swords, and sought a ••promised
land," they have either disintegrated, or been driven
back whence they came, or passed on as wanderers over
the earth's surface
353
J
Where are the Goths of early Europe? What has be-
come of the Romans as a people? Never was it more
truly said, "Those who take up the sword shall perish
by the sword," than in this long carousal of the peoples
of the earth into one another's territories.
No State anywhere has bought permanent magnificence
by conquest.
No State anywhere has been permanently built on the
plundering of weaker nations. I can point you out
disintegration and racial impotency for every ethno-
logical migration that you can call up, that had pure
conquest for its motive.
History is a black page of ignoble failure wherever
princes have looted to grow mightier.
The question naturally arises-assuming all this aca-
demically for the moment-what is to be the remedy in
a world where States have become so intermingled in
iniquity that they cannot disassociate themselves from
one another and return to the original locations or ter-
rains that were responsible for their differences?
We know that some races exist today that are called
"pure" races that are nothing of the sort. Two or more
races have so blended that the result-a hybrid-is
everywhere thought of as a pure racial stock. To un-
scramble all this, of course, is madness. Furthermore,
we realize that the pr_esent status quo is no remedy for
the ·immense amount of wrong-doing-internationally
speaking-that has gone on from time immemorial,
causing racial animosities that only require a spark to
354
touch off a mighty conflagration ~ ~ ~ ~
This brings us to the heart of our discourse, especially
as the question also arises to the practical mind of the
present, ··well, and what of it? Mightn't such cros&-
breeding be Nature's method for selectively improving
the species?"
These nations are scattered all over the earth. Their
problems are universal. Europe is a tinder-box, having
within its confines fecundities for world explosion. Asia
is an equal headache; the Chinaman is starting out on a
journey that may mean his disintegration as a stock.
The Russian-under the Jew-is a harrier at present
between Europe and Asia, hut there is every indication
that he will combine with the Chinaman before he com-
bines with the European, introducing a new state of af-
fairs into European politics, or-for that matter-world
statesmanship. Neither race, is fully aware of this
eventuality at present, but there are some of us who
read Signs Not of Earth, and know whereof we speak.
The Chinaman will not be satisfied with overrunning
Asia; he will attempt to gain more than his lost ..face"
at the hands of the Aryan, but in the gaining he may
lose his race-soul. It will he the Aryan Confederation
that will ultimately deal with both Jew and Oriental;
and, whether or not I am hooted for my prediction, I
forecast that it will be Germany and America that will
lead that Federation to such function.
Such plays on the chessboard of international affairs
can be looked upon as indications of the eventual under-
355
standings between peoples that this practice of conquest
and looting for the sake of race aggrandizement, must,
somewhere, end. Races cannot go back to their original
locations-not as races. There must be some other way
of razing the mountains of hatred that overhang them
all-like a restless volcano spouting fumes of cataclysm.
fJf Approaching the proble:m fro.m the human stand-
point, we might attempt to allocate those races to cer-
tain localities geographically where they would best
thrive physically and temperamentally; but that too is
nonsense in a practical world where some of the best
locations climatically are held by the weakest and most
shiftless peoples. We have seen history as a long pano-
rama of the strongest nations seizing the lands of the
weakest, and making butchattels of their residents. To
attempt to prescribe a return to original allocations, is
more absurd than attempting to tell a strong man that
he shall shed his stature and become a youngster ~
fJf The solution of the problem is simple, however; so
simple that whole batteries of world statesmen cannot
see the forest for the trees.
Man has long gone on the principle that Might makes
Right, whether he has accepted it academically or not.
He has said, ..I can, therefore I will." It has never oc-
curred to him to be sensible toward his children. And
here, in 'a handful of words, we have a solution to the
entire heterogeneity of races.
What of the children?
What of the future for our children?
356
What ·problems are we handing on to them, freighted
with wars, alarms, and international catastrophes, and
how can we interpret to our children our problems in
terms of ourselves?
m~~f8~ HAT man is not a creature of law and
order, is a premise I laid down in·the be-
ginning. He is a creature of expedience. .
His only thought is of the present. He
cares 'not for the morrow or for his
children·s welfare after they have grown. He does his
whole duty by his children-so he thinks-when he
raises them to legal maturity. Thereafter they must be-
come creatures of circumstance, like himself, and he
takes a grim pride in passing on to them the.heritage of
hate that he received from his fathers. He thinks that
he is ennobling those children by presenting them with
such a state of animosity for them to battle with. His
whole thought is not exactly selfish so much as vin-
dictive. Life, and his forebears, gave him a "raw dear'
and he will seek compensation for his own struggles
with destiny by bequeathing it to those who follow
after him~~
He is now the conscious curser of his own progeny. He
conceives that there is something smart in transferring
to another generation what he has been made to suffer
from the last. But;. in all his thinking he makes one
colossal errpr-an error which I submit is the keystone
of the miserable complication.
357
He neglects to take into account that he may be his own
grandson flt ~
Mark this wellt
What if a hundred years from today it is discovered and
proven that the much-despised theory of Earthly Re-
birth is a scientifically provable fact? What if millions
of men smarting under international injustices for which
they castigate their forefathers, suddenly come to realize
that they themselves are their forebears' reborn souls?
What a ghastly joke they will have been playing on
themselves! ~ ~
They have vindictively bequeathed to themselves the
very calamities from which they now suffer.
There is no religion in this, no theology, no fanatical
cult-doctrine, nothing but elementary science of perpet-
uation of identity.
Hundreds of thousands of people have positive knowl-
edge that they have lived before on this earth; they
have, many of them, directly "lifted memories" of those
sequences. There are attested cases of men able to
converse intelligently, one with another, in the most
ancient Atlantean speech. The memory of it has sud-
denly come to them on hearing it spoken by others.
Thousands of souls have awakened memories of prior
existences with each year that passes. On the other
hand, millions of persons, not yet realizing it con-
sciously, accredit the subconscious realization that they
could not have attained to their present roles intellec-
tually without long, long evolution.
358
The knowledge that these things may be the sternest of
facts, is percolating at an amazing rate in these hectic
years among people in all nations, undermining the
dogmatic creeds and causing religious unrest in all
countries ~ ~
Science is dramatically close to proving it in physics.
tj I have conducted certain experiments in my own case
which convince me of the truth of such a principle be-
hind life, putting mentally afflicted persons into deep
cataleptic slumber and awakening their prior-life
memories to such an extent that I have had immature,
adolescent youngsters arouse and give me the most
erudite narrations of events and customs that main-
tained in vanished civilizations.
Persons by the hundreds who hold similar opinions
have made themselves known to me, and I have ex-
changed data with similar experimenters and found that
they agree. These are not the vaporings of fanatics.
They have come to me from people in every walk in
life, from every caste and station, from railroad presi-
dents to college students, from bankers and statesmen to
elevator starters and veterinary surgeons. They attest
to one salient fact: that the claim set forth elsewhere
that there are over one million suporters of the Earthly
Rebirth tenet in America today, is not an exaggeration.
tj Surely one million persons could not be hoodwinked
on a tenet of mortal life so tremendous. And yet this
volume is no place to discuss this grand fundamental of
all esoterics. I would not unduly disturb my reader of
359
I
I
practical mind, who has followed me up to now with
reasonable credence, by sidetracking him abruptly into
dramatic metaphysics. I merely submit that we are
confronting a theory no longer in the theory class. We
are confronting a quasi-scientific principle and a divine
attestment, that man after man is but the reborn soul of
his own forebear, that citizen after citizen, socially
speaking, is but reaping the whirlwind of hate in his
national life which he has been instrumental in sowing
in ages which are ancient.
What is Time in eternity? Time is merely the measure
of change. The more advanced physicists are ready to
agree that Time is merely the present instant but in-
terpreted by man in terms of event succeeding event,
because his brain is not so constituted as to comprehend
a succession of events in one century-grasp.
Think now, I say-assuming for argument's sake that
such theory holds water-what a great tragedy we as a
nation are bequeathing to ourselves, by the passing on
to our "offspring" of problems that are unsolvable ex-
cepting by turmoil, wrath, and bloodshed. We are de-
liberately willing ourselves the supreme catastrophe-
Perpetual Hell-so long as we are called to undergo a
continuity of earthly existence until we have arrived at
the spiritual magnitude where our graduation from
earth into a real heaven is a merited evolution.
Man is not a law-abiding creature, because he refuses
to recognize that one law only governs this universe:
COMPENSATION.
360
Those who sow the whirlwind, suffer the tempest's dev-
astating effects. They suffer it not only in one life, but
in a continual series of existences in which again and
again they drain the bitter cup of their own wickedness.
f]l Make no mistake about this.
When a nation says to itself, "We will commit this das-
tardly act upon our neighbors, reaping the immediate
benefits and escaping the penalty by slipping out into
'death' forty or fifty years in future," let it remember
that there may be no such thing as escaping into Death.
The people of that nation, or of that race, may slip into
another state temporarily-the Paradise, let us say
of Biblical legend and of Christ's reference to the thief
on the cross-a temporary haven of recognition that
they have not paid but that they must pay, and that
eventually they go back to pay. Born back into earthly
flesh, a little higher spiritually perhaps, a little better in
rank and station, yet they never escape the wheels of
the chariot, or the hoofs of the steeds of wrath, which
once they drove over the living bodies of those whom
they had wronged.
There seem to be only so many people in all existence.
The number apparently is fixed from millennium to mil-
lennium. They go and come, in physical life and out of
it. ..New persons" may be born out of the great ocean
of inorganic spirit, so to speak, as the cycles of the mil-
lenniums open and close, and an equal number of souls
graduate and leave the solar postulation. But the total
number, we have reason to believe, is more or less a
361
·1
r·"'...
norm. They are either in earthly life as mortal men or
they are waitig "in between lives" for a new try at
physical existence. There is no escaping the great law
of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, albeit the
eyes and the teeth are their own. Again I say, this is
not inserted as any homily in mysticism. It is a stern
reminder that there is no bequeathing the result of inter-
national wrong-doing, envy, mailce, jealousy, seizure or
forfeit, to other generations.
And the problem is always with us until we solve it with
compassion and equity. The sins of the fathers are
truly visited upon the children, not in the unfair bequest
of maladies and malformations of bodies-as petty
hucksters of finicky doctrines would have us believe in
their own blindness and ignorance of what is really stir-
ring in the world-but in terrific arraignment of our-
selves to ourselves.
362
m~'1J~ti AKE now the international problems which
the age presents, and follow them out
along the tenets of this fundamental life
doctrine. The Englishman says to the
German, "I am better than you are. My
forefathers accomplished more. They were an or-
ganized nation while your forefathers were living in
icy fens of dismal middle Europe." Both say to the
Chinaman, "We live by a better standard and worship
a purer God. To us you are heathen and so we spit
upon you." The Dutchman says to the East Indian,
"We are your masters. We are given divine power to
force you to work for us and fatten our purses. We flog
you in the interests of your souls-and our own bank
accounts." The Rumanian says to the Serbian, "Lo,
we have an age-long account against you. You are an
abomination unto us and all your progeny are dogs."
Only recently the Russian aristocrat said to the peasant,
"We consider you animals. You toil for us because God
wills it, having no brain and no soul, made to hew our
wood and draw our water. We apply the cat to you in
the interests of humanity. Suffer your pain well, for
you know that it is merited." The Gentile says to the
Jew, "You dogs of Israel with your greasy palms, we
hate the sight of your manners and noses. We cut your
throats with the greatest joy for you toil not, neither do
you spin, and yet Solomon in all his glory was not ar-
rayed as you attempt to array yourselves on substance
filched from us in days of misfortune... The American
363
too is not above his snobbery, "Lo, we are the best
people, of the best nation, of this .best of all possible
worlds, with our motor cars and radios, our night clubs
and morning shower-baths, our penthouses and bunga-
low homes. We teach the whole world manners though
we cannot do likewise to our offspring."
What a mockery of truth! What a travesty on moralsI
fJI What a hoax each of these nationals plays upon him-
self if mayhap in the next generation the individual
Englishman goes thorugh a life experience as a German,
the brutal Dutch taskmaster finds himself born an East
Indian, the Rumanian alternates with the Serbian, the
Jew and the Gentile change places for a few lives in
order that each may know what the other's intolerance
and sufferings were like, and all of these races vie with
the American in ignoring the fact that he who chastises
is chastened by his own rod and knows his own wrath.
fJl' Terrific indeed would be the readjustments between
all of these, if Science came to the species in a near day
and supplied proof that it were so. For where then
could any race hide from its iniquity?
I say that national life is not alone a condition. It is
some kind of payment. Every race suffers from some
other race, every national is working out the sum and
substance of his own penalty prescribed by himself in
ages which are closed. These things are so potent that
it behooves every man of every race not to close his eyes
and ears to evidences of the credibility of this doctrine
lying all about him.
364
Human life would be silly and futile if some such law
were not being vindicated. The Mosaic Law is heavy
with its references. The teachings and preachments of
Jesus take on.a new and startling significance when His
adjuration "Ye must be born again" is accepted literally
and we consider the possibility that not one life but a
hundred lives are necessary in order to evolve, educate,
. and perfect a human soul eligible to associate eternally
thereafter with the souls of The Just Men Made Perfect.
«Jr Men discuss a "wrathful creator," a "just God," as
though the eventual and permanent After-Life were
some sort of police court through which they will slip
by having paid a fine in charities. To persons of ra-
tional intellect the very process is idiotic.
Men are their own judges, their own penalty makers,
their own executioners. What they sow, that also do
they reap-Christ Himself said so in a hundred places.
God-granted He were what the prelates consider Him
-could not find the time to give attention to the miser-
able miscalculations in human form that would thus
present themselves to His judgeship.
Of course I am not insane enough to have any man
think that it is possible to reconstruct the political life
of nations on such a hypothesis at the present moment.
We are dealing with actualities.
The race as a species has a problem to solve. That
problem is twofold: First, it must find a way to redress
the wrongs of the past; second, it must create a better
order in society on a basis that will halt any repetition
365
f '.
of the wrongs that have brought society its present com-
plication ~ ~
The race as a race is approaching those years when
world society must rise above petty differences of color
and creed and take the long view of the proposition that
men as men are not mere flesh and blood creations and
nothing more. They are spiritual entities who inhabit
flesh-and-blood houses in order to learn how to behave
while living in different neighborhoods.
They are not creatures of skin and sinew, so much as
spiritual sensations. They have no part or parcel with
physical limitation only as it enhances spiritual per-
ception. They are not what we see them, sublimated
apes, but gods in school, learning how to adjudicate,
each one, over a hundred thousand million planetary
systems yet to be created.
This would be a rash projection to lay down on the
green-baize table of international diplomacy or practical
world statesmanship. But the time is coming when
statesmen will be forced to recognize that men are un-
controllable permanently, that spirit essences are the
true stuffs in which they deal, that humankind as a mass
is chaotic only because it is not yet fully enlightened in
these matters, and that that nation is great that is first
to consider itself the beacon in the new order in world
affairs and clean its own courtyard to receive the God of
Social Illumination with the courtesy He merits.
.366
NATIONS-IN-LAW
An Unconventional Analysis of Civics
By WILLIAM DUDLEY PELLEY
VOLUME TWO
Copyright
WILLIAM DUDLEY PELLEY
1938
THE TWENTY-FIFTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
THE TWENTY-FIFTH DISCUSSION
HE ABROGATION of treaty
:=-f'.'JilliiiillSiii._......~ contracts in the late World War
-............
brings to our attention the
question of Constitutional Law
as it applies to vast groups of
individuals known as nations or
'
Mnmr.11=8~.4:"'1 empires-or rather, the rela-
tionships of these groups to one
~-fl.:::llllllDlllll..,.Mlllll another on some recognized
basis in equity that shall minimize instead of maximize
the effects we have discussed in our previous volume.
fJI We have seen that Constitutional Law is the desire of
large groups to code mutual understandings that the
greatest good for the greatest number may come out of
government. For in the last analysis, Government is
naught but the promulgation of human organization to
make and administer law. International Law must
therefore be constitutional law as applied to nations in
its broadest aspects.
We have a tendency in this modern century to think of
international law as a series of specific understandings
that typify solutions to a few specific problems chiefly
369
concerned with freedom of the seas. That is to say, we
seem to beli~ve that international law is a panacea for
the passing quibbles and misapplication of political
principles on the parts of statesmen of limited vision.
t]f We believe that international law will solve all prob-
lems a:p.d troubles of the wofld provided we resolve our
recipes to some paper paragraphs for reference in courts
of international jurisprudence. We think that interna-
tional law is a panacea for all international troubles the
moment it is coded and made available for jurists.
We think that we have only to say, "That is right and
this is wrong," among nations, to bring about a sort of
millennium under which nations will be respectful and
honorable toward one another and halt their depreda-
tions on one another's territories.
This to a student of any kind of law, and its application
to human affairs, is the sheerest nonsense.
Law is law only because it expresses the will of the
majority over the minority, and this applies even though
it be the promulgation of the dicta of a sovereign. To
say that people will obey a law only because it is coded,
is a fallacy that strikes at the very heart and core of all
jurisprudence as a factor in making universal govern-
ment effective.
A law is only as strong as the force behind it is strong
to enforce it. This force may be the will of the majority
spiritually expressed or, for a time, the gunboats of a
monarchy ready to level opposition by internecine
butchery. No matter!
370
A law without force behind it, to give it power of ex-
pression, is a farcical expression of syllables on docu-
ments, and means not a thing to the body politic.
Consider this carefully in an application of the principles
of law-·Constitutional or otherwise-to international
disputes. Unless any code of international laws has
behind it the moral suasion qf the rest of the universe,
or at least the will of a majority of its world citizens, it
will be ineffective and impotent. And you cannot have
a law that is impotent. It ceases to be a law and becomes
a mere prescription for human conduct that may be
taken or left at the recipient's pleasure!
~~6i~~~OW THEN, consider this: When Law has
reached a point universally that it is a vital
force because backed by the will of the
majority, it maintains its power whether
coded or not. Countless laws have been
m effect before this codification. 'This codification is
merely an incident, that neophytes in jurisprudence may
have access to that which has been determined on in
practice by those who have done their practicing before
the appearance of the neophytes on the stage of events.
When the neophytes come upon the scene-and wher-
ever and whenever students make their advent in any
curriculum of study-it is necessary for them to know
the boundaries of limitation that have been set by their
elders or predecessors for the conduct of any particular
study~~
371
Codification also per~its mutual understandings of the
context employed, to express the will of the majority as
it has been projected in practice.
It is not essential that every law he coded. For instance,
the laws of health are not coded. The laws of gravita-
tion and self-preservation are not coded. The laws of
spiritual well-being are not coded. The laws appertain-
ing to medicine and surgery are not coded. The laws of
real estate, commercial practices, and equity in business
proceedings are. not coded although certain phases of
them may be. They all rest on penalties, and eventu-
alities for malpractice or violation, so unerring in
disastrous results that to code them seems superfluous.
fJJ No one, for instance, would code a law that falling
down a flight of stairs is not permissible because injury
awaits at the bottom. We say "everyone knows that,"
so why code it? The law against falling downstairs is a
Natural Law which the infant learns from its very first
a'Ccident. So with the laws of health and so-called
science, of commerce and equity. We know that if we
do wrong to our brother and the wrong go unredressed,
we are forever in his debt. While that debt may be
ignored by both parties for a time, it does not cease to
exist as a debt, and forever awaits payment so long ae
the debtor exists.
That is Law in its purest form.
Applying these prin~iples to our study of Constitutional
and International Law, we find then that laws are often
coded to make the transgression of them more certain
372
to those who understand not the penalties for violation.
fl Law in this sense becomes mere written warning.
But Law itself-in its pristine concept-is a condition
of conduct, nothing more and nothing less, carrying
penalty of some sort of misbehavior or violation.
Emphatically must we remember this·in any study of
international law-or rather, International Constitu-
tionalism. Law as law is penalty, so to speak, put at the
end of limitation. To say that Law prohibits, without
some sort of penalty that discipli:ries-in the event of
transgression or ff.outing of the prohibition-is to talk
nonsense or engage in word play.
Law is based on the fact that human nature has found
that a given line of conduct results in social error and
malpractice if carried to an extreme within the group.
Law therefore says, "Self-preservation demands that de-
sistance become effective else we perish or be injured
in body or fortunes." That is the decalogue of all peo-
ples the world over, and particularly is it true coming to
the ·subject of International Law.
Law says to the individual, "Deport ·yourself so-and-so
or you injure, or incur the displeasure of, the group."
CJ The group recognizes Law as law when it says, "Thus-
and-so will we do, else the body politic suffer and all
humanity be disarranged." That is the decalogue verily.
CJ Coming to international law, or the law between na-
tions as such, what do we find~ What but that nations
say, ..We as principalities are above suffering penalities, ~
in that we are sovereign. Therefore we set ourselves
373
above all law, and become law unto ourselves."
Now there is no such thing as any nation being a law
unto itself, for that would provoke other nations into
contention. They would say, "We also are laws unto
ourselves and we dispute your law as being above ours."
CJ! What a travesty of reasoning!
No reasoning whatsoever is in it, for Law is law and
recognizes neither groups nor principalities of any. sort.
It recognizes only the human race as a race.
You cannot have a law that says that one part of the
human race can fall off a cliff without injury while
another portion meets with disaster. You cannot have
a law which says that one portion of the race is immune
from disease while another is exempt from it, speaking
of disease as disease and not special maladies that affect
different groups with different degrees of virulence.
You·cannot have a law which says that one group shall
be excused from fulfilling .contra>cts in equity while
another group must adhere to them. Such is the defo-
sion which the Jew of today is suffering from, and must
suffer from further, until he becomes sane from the
extent of mass society's displeasure wreaked upon his
person~~
A law is a sort of divine pronouncement to the race, and
is inviolate of transgression. · What we are most gen-
erally pleased to call laws are, in many instances, little
more than interpretations of penalties.
But to get ·back to Constitutional Law as applied to
nations... ·~
374
~~~~:JE MUST first consider that whether laws
between nations are coded or not, the pro-
nouncements and fiats of law will make
themselves felt. Law of some sort will
operate whether human beings concur in
it or not. It has in it the retribution of divine decree.
A broken law is an open penalty. That penalty may
be thwarted, it may be ignored, it may be misunderstood,
it may be ameliorated, none the less it is a penalty and
inexorable in expression.
If you take your brother's goods without payment satis-
fying to him, either as an individual or as a nation, you
are incurring the necessity for payment which can never
be erased until compensation has been made. If you
trespass on your brother's property or violate his family
circle, you are inviting the retribution of similar conduct
on his part towards yourself. You cannot perform any
act in the group or the nation without ultimate payment
being in abeyance. No codification of this principle
is needed. It is a divine tenet as inexorable in opera-
tion as the Law of Injury when one is careless on the
brink of a precipice. How silly, therefore, to look on the
conduct of nations as being above all law, or dependent
on adherence to certain written statutes!
International law began in the first moment that two
nations set up existence in the history of the species.
Its smallest ramification has been prescribed in Cosmic
thought since those two nations-however illiterate--
became actualities.
375
Let us not forget this. Nations may grow, and have
grown, in numbers and powers of self~expression, but
they have not altered one jot or tittle of the principles
of conduct that men today recognize as international
law. You cannot have law without penalty, I say again.
Wherever there is true law there is penalty of some sort,
and inversely and unerringly, whenever you see
penalty in operation-as we witness in gigantic form
between the nations in the recent world war-there·look
for a violated law.
Scraps of paper have flooded the earth in attempted
interpretations of legal principles as simple and reso-
lute as that the tumbling from a height means death or
injury for the human organism at the bottom of the
fall. Why will the nations not see this? Primarily,
because they think they have the. power within them-
selves to delay or mitigate the penalties resulting from
transgression, and because of this power they consider
themselves above law. Procrastination in the acceptance
of penalty, however, never voids it but only converts it
into forms more deadly, like a repressed complex in
psychology ~ ~
Take the case of a nation that thinks to make war on a
neighbor as a means toward its own aggrandizement;
that is the simplest illustrati<m and the one most fre-
quently practiced. It trumps up the war, goes through
with it, and wins it-apparently! It collects its pecuni-
ary awards in terms of reparations or compensations in
lands or forfeitures. By these it seems to be temporarily
376
enhanced. But a debt has been contracted-none the
less-that must be paid to the utmost farthing.
Let us examine that debt and see how·it is paid in terms
of international law, whether coded or not....
L{4~Q~~EN have a humor to know the Unknow-
able. There is no Unknowable, all is of
instruction. This applies to nations as
well as to individuals. When nations
realize that their quandaries are as de-
cipherable in terms of logic as the quandaries of the
individual, they will have no quandaries. All is of in-
struction, I say again. What then is the instruction in
regard to violations of law resulting from a war, even
a successful war? . . .
Nations fight a conflict and arrange terms of peace.
Sometimes they go back to the status quo-in their own
minds. That is, circumstances seem to be pretty much
in national affairs as they were before the war started.
But one man cannot be killed on either side, nor one
farthing expended, without an obligation having been
created that somehow must be fulfilled to the satisfaction
of the creditor.
The warring nation, however, in case one side has been
overwhelmingly defeated, exacts certain values and
promises from the other to which its only right is force
of arms. It says to the vanquished, ..I have the power
to take from you, therefore I so take." The vanquished
says, ..I cannot help your taking, therefore I relinquish."
377
All of which is simple highway robbery on an interna-
tional scale and a violation of the most fundamental law
of human existence-the right of the human being to
work out his own destiny under the conditions imposed
upon himself before entering the mortal duration.
Take away that right and you violate the Law of Karma
reaching unto endless generations. Until readjustment
is reached, there is never any real peace between the
parties. And so it is with, and between, the nations in-
volved in a "successful" war.
The winner says to the vanquished, "Give me!" and the
vanquished says, "I comply because I am unable to resist
at this moment, but always I reserve redress unto my-
self. The moment your power relaxes to hold what you
have wrested, I shall restore the equilibrium in circum-
stances as the latent power to do so may accrue to me."
CJ[ What therefore happens in the nation that is van-
quished? It may be destroyed, it may be ground under
the heel of oppression, it may be left to resume its own
life under a system of tribute. But it cannot escape
the sense of obligation owed it by the conquering nation,
that will persist in natural traits and animosities, in sub-
versive revolutions and commercial antagonisms, in
abatements of privileges to the conquerors, socially and
personally, wherever opportunity offers in every phase
of antagonistic deportment that can be addressed to the
victors ~ ~
A generation~ may die out. On both sides the children
of victors and vanquished take up the feud. It becomes
378
an historical tradition in the blood of both participants
and their progeny. Song and story will· keep it alive.
Inherent laxities of conduct toward each other will per-
petuate it. Even the infants on each side will feel it
incumbent to hurl stones and epithet€ at one another.
Laws of equity have been violated and the balance must
be restored, else no peace comes that is really peace.
f:I A feud may even be forgiven but deep in the sub-
conscious memories of each race will galvanize certain
evidences of the original mischief, when those who
suffer from it have ceased to become aware of its origin.
It is like a brook flowing to the sea. It may be dammed
and diverted, it may be mingled with the waters of a
lake and its identity seemingly be lost, yet never once
does it cease to be an amount of water that is progressing
inexorably toward the ocean.
Present-day society is recovering gradually from a
graphic illustration of this truth. Fifty years or more
bygone, Bismarck sought and found an excuse to
descend on Franee and wrest Alsace-Lorraine as part of
his program for building up the German Empire. Who
dares to say that the world war would have been fought
had the German Empire not been built up on such prac-
tices? Would Franee have cherished her hatred that
kept Germany-and thus Europe-an armed camp
through two generations and finally brought those arms
into use, had Germany not said to her back in 1872,
..Give to me because I am strong enough to take,., al-
though not always is a wrong of such nature redressed
379
between nations so quickly ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
Searching back for historical motivations, Germany
made her seeming monstrous reparations payments be-
cause Bismarck and his policies were the greatest com-
bination of two stupidities, allowed to exhibit in Europe
since the silly rampages of the Corsican. And the Cor-
sican himself-writing finally on St. Helena-confessed
his mistakes, the greatest of them being that there is any-
thing to be permanently gained at the point of the sword.
C.lf "The spirit of the temporarily conquered peoples
brought all my labors to naught," he admitted in
principle ~ .~
Human nature is so constituted that it only forgives
wrongs as they are redressed. The nations which have
so suddenly ceased to hate Germany-America specific-
ally-are those whose wrongs have been redressed, or
who have come to acquire an enlightenment as to the
true natures and purposes of those who precipitated the
war for their selfish enhancements.
This is not because human nature is essentially vindic-
tive, for vindictiveness must have a reasonable definition
based on a cause. It lies in the fact that human life is
amenable to the great fundamental Law of Compensa-
tion, and when that law is violated, something is wrong.
Human nature does not always realize what causes the
wrong, but it does feel the effects of it in destiny. So it
seeks readjustment blindly and we have social turmoil.
~ Given a m~mber of people-from two in a group to a
million in a nation-suffering from the porcine behavior
380
of another group or nation, and you will have social
turmoil whether or not it appears ·on the surface for
daily accounting thereof. Social animosities are deep,
deep. They are always premised on some sort of read-
justment delayed.
You cannot have two nations injuring one another, even
to the cut on a finger of the least of its subjects, without
instigating a force that must first be accredited, then
abolished ~ ~
Christ in His great mission did not say "An eye for an
eye and a tooth for a tooth" as Moses did. He said,
'"Do unto others as you would have them do unto you;"
But what was He concerned in? . . . merely dealing in
positive spiritual values instead of expressing Himself
by the negative. He could not have said, "Go away and
forget your enemy, paying no attention to him for his
inroads upon you," for that would have been unnatural.
It would not have satisfied the Law of Compensation.
Christ said, "Compensate in other values, values that
are more positive and constructive and for the higher
spiritual profit of the group."
The race knew that an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a
tooth, satisfied something within it far deeper than in-
tellectualism, that was appeased by.vindictive violence.
. fJ I say again, Jesus of Nazareth expounded the Law in
terms of positivism and compassion instead of in vicious-
ness and hatred. Note that He never sought to abolish
the law nor tried to circumvent it.
When we come to the conduct of nations toward one
381
another, we see the Law stand out nakedly, like a pillar
of fire in darkened heavens. We see the vanquished
carrying within themselves the seeds of discontent
through generation after generation, until the victory
for the conquerors resolves itself into nothing but a
vigilance, more cruel toward the victors than it is toward
the vanquished.
When the nations of the earth have fully recognized
this principle they will have fully coded international
law!~~
Let us tackle this problem for a moment from still
another angle, calling to our aid our previous concept of
Constitutional Law as laid down in the foregoing
pages...
t&~~~ATIONS are like children. They think
in fundamentals, they display in ele-
mentals. They give heed to principles
more than to technicalities. What we
really mean, therefore, when we speak of
coding international law, is not the admission in writing
of fundamental principles or elemental actualities. It
is the recoding for posterity of concurrent technicalities
in the transmission of public endowments to the indi-
vidual intellect or individual reactionism. For bear in
mind that the individual is always practical. That is to
say, he cannot deal in generalities for personal applica-
tion. Being practical means trafficking in values of im-
mediate and personal profit unto the self. He may know
382
that food is beneficial to his organism. but he is more
concerned in the method for getting it onto his table
and thence into his mouth.
Given a dish of international food-to continue the
metaphor-beneficial for the organism of interna-
tionality, how will the various eaters partake of in The
process ceases to be a generalization and becomes one
of technical application.
This is not a coding of law, but a seeking for expedients,
and a transcript for preservation of the processes in-
volved. So, startling as the statement may seem, this
principle is true-
lnternational Law is already coded in the hearts of men
of every race!
Nationals of every color know that they want to be dealt
with, nationally, as they would be dealt with as groups
or individuals. But as groups or indivdiuals they may
not have the power for procrastination of penalties.
Nevertheless, the desire is there in the group or the in-
dividual for treatment in equity.
This desire is coded International Law!
It is not coded on sheepskin in words. It is coded i~
human consciousness and ideas. Technicalities of appli-
cation are something else again.
Frequently we have a condition in society where men
rise above the problems of birth and environment and
make themselves masters of tribulation and disaster.
That is not an abolition of the Law of Compensation but
rather a dispensation of it, and such dispensation was
383
the crux of Christ's doctrine of Non-Resistance. But to
say that rising above tribulation and disaster is the law
either for nations or for individuals, is to circumvent the
law itself. Law never can be circumvented. It is un-
touchable, to say nothing of unalterable by human de-
sires, human passions, even human legislation. Consider
this profoundly.
Law was before the human race was. Law will be when
the human race has completely altered in identity and
returned unto the Godhead from which it was derived
in millenniums bygone.
Our operations in jurisprudence are merely the recipes
for the technical transactions of social behaviorisms.
Until this point is clearly understood we shall have
tumults and confusions with the greatest vitality among
groups and nationals.
Constitutional Law, we have seen, is the acknowledg-
ment by groups or nationals--en masse-as to what is
most appropriate to bring the greatest benefits to the
greatest numbers. When it goes into the highways and
byways and applies itself to the daily activities of the in-
dividual human unit, we translate it into terms of what
we call Politics.
Following this reasoning in the application of constitu-
tional jurisprudence among national groups, we arrive
at the necessity for similar application and find our-
selves confronting the same problem of personal appli-
cation which consistently must be termed International
Politics. But even as~ there is a gross misinterpretation
384
among the smallest sectional groups as to the truthful
essence of Politics and its pristine offices, so there is a
similar misapplication of the larger term in international
relationships ~ ~
All of us are prone to think of International Politics as a
sort of sublimated ward-heeler•s practices-that is to
say. precinct chicane on an international scale. This too
is nonsense, even as many of our concepts of interna-
tional law are nonsense.
Politics is the clean application of majority preferences,
transcribed in terms of group intelligence and obedience.
This recipe is applicable to internationality in exactly the
ratio that the nation is vaster in importance than the
individual ~ ~
The huckstering of the so-called statesman for petty ad-
vantages is far from being Politics, quite as far as the
principles of Christ are demarked from the tribal retri-
bution of savagery. So-called world-statesmen are too
often merely glorified ward-heelers who because of their
·high offices are so inflated in their own esteem by the
plaudits of the multitude that they conceive their works
in terms of immortalities. Nothing could be falser.
Many a slum worker bringing a bag of Christmas provi-
sions into a city tenement is a profounder world states-
man than a cantor of world policies with the mentality
and altruism of a corner saloon-keeper seated in the chair
of a prime minister.
Human values are always world values. A man who
goes to and fro about his work in life, ordering his ways
385
----------------------~·--·-······-····
to conform to social dictates, loving his neighbors and
supporting his family, is of more value to eternity-not
to mention internationality-than a dozen Genghis
Khans or a thousand Cromwells. That is not saying
that the Khans and the Cromwells have not their parts
to play in society and history, quite as necessary and
effective as the humble artisan who practices Christ's
precepts in his daily life. But of the two, the humble
citizen ordering his ways according to the Law of Com-
pensation as hereinbefore set forth, is the better fitted
to occupy the prime minister's chair, regardles of his
erudition or lack of it. Not that leaders must be nin-
compoops in order to qualify as leaders, but that Khans
and Cromwells may recognize that true leadership is ad-
herence to social laws in the universe as adamant as the
laws of velocity or physical carelessness.
386
THE TWENTY-SIXTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
THE TWENTY-SIXTH DISCUSSION
HEN MANKIND arrives at a
..-~~..lllililll..,.,._..~1.111.. certain stage of spiritual de-
velopment he is prone to ask
himself some tremendous ques-
tions. One of them is: "How
comes it that I-a reasoning
human being endowed with all
my faculties, and quasi-divine
in my essence-find myself be-
holden to elemental principles in whose origin seem-
ingly I had no part? How have I arrived at a condition
of affairs where I am the prey or shuttlecock of tre-
mendous forces that say I shall do this or be damaged,
or do that and perish? Who set these great principles
at work? Who determined my spiritual comings and
goings in flesh? What forces now operate, that involve
me helplessly when I transgress their obvious fiats~"
(j[ These are fair questions and man would not be a
reasoning creature, imbued with such divinity, if he did
not ask them.
Man says to himself: "I am on this planet at the play of
Intelligence which I cannot comprehend." For want of
389
a better term, he designates this Intelligence as "God"-
a word which is the contraction of "good."
There is nothing wrong with the appellation. There is
nothing erroneous in his general concept of the Deity as
such. But when he says to himself: "These vicissitudes
which I suffer, and these laws which I am forced to obey,
make me the plaything of the Almighty," he is going
far afield in irrationality.
Let us examine his attitude. . . .
He thinks he is the "plaything" of the Almighty. What
does he mean? The Almighty has evidently been guilty
of caprice if man is His plaything, for play implies
caprice without constructive purpose. Man therefore
designates himself as an object of caprice. Yet how can
this be so when out of such caprice comes intelligent and
constructive experience making for his spiritual and
physical betterment?
If man could foresee everything due to happen to him
in his physical existence or span of life, would he derive
any real profit from it?
The question is debatable.
There are those who know their careers in advance, but
invariably they, are souls of such age and poise that a
knowledge of their future experiences in life does
not act on them abortively. In other words, it does
not cause them to dodge life·s issues or seek to avoid
seeming calamities that in the physical or mental sense
may be painful in expression.
The great mass of mankind, however, is not so poised.
390
It seems to be toiling up the tortuous mountain of ex-
perience in order to witness the spiritual glories to be
enjoyed upon its summit. It has small knowledge-ac-
curately-of future events, because of its childish
cowardice, or fear of pain, which would impel it to avoid
exactly those experiences most needed for development.
fJl This process is divine in its munificence.
There are those of us, followers of no cult, who have
reason to accept that it consists of a series of rebirths
into flesh, each birth being a social station, a little higher
and more refined than the last in its effects on human
character. These stations are progressive and lead al-
ways up the mountain, unless the in.dividual deliberately
elects to jump off the passing precipice into the disaster
of utter darkness. Up, up, up each soul is climbing,
growing more and more proficient in its spiritual facul-
ties, until it is a Christ Force in its own right, capable
of assuming charge of planetary systems yet uncreated.
fJl Where, too, many earnest people go astray in their
reasonings against this hypothesis, is in confusing
earthly prestige-or notoriety-with spiritual valua-
tions. People are prone to reason from the physical,
or worldly, standpoint that if one has been a
famous personage in one life, he must go on being
famous personages throughout all succeeding lives or
the whole structure collapses-not only famous person-
ages but personages whose social achievements in each
age are ever higher than those in his last.
The idea is, I assume, that the capabilities which made
391
a soul famous in one birth would operate to make him
famous in all births. But they are provincials who thus
decide. They attach importance solely to those person-
ages who in times past have led in-or been associated
with-certain events that have kept them notable in
recorded history, forgetting that veritable fiends of such
tenor as some of the degenerate Roman emperors have
been similarly perpetuated, and that notoriety, either in
the present or the past, may be a phase of, but never is,
the essence of spiritual refinement.
To use a comic metaphor, Julius Caesar might decide to
enhance his spiritual development by manipulating to
get himself born in an East Side tenement and follow the
vocation of a Swede janitor for one life's experience.
He would doubtless manifest all the Caesarian traits as
an apartment house janitor-something, of course, with
which the average New Yorker is not exactly unfamiliar
-but because he had once been the Julius Caesar is no
premise to expect that in every generation in which he
appears he must head a replica of the famous Tenth
Legion or rule greater federations of States than the one-
time Roman Empire.
What really then, is the individual soul actually learn-
ing? Not necessarily how to preserve its identity in the
face of divine caprice that would dangle it for mad enter-
tainment on the brink of the various chasms of circum-
stance. Is it not tenable and plausible that the soul is
going to school for a mighty purpose-namely, to learn
the laws of Cause and Effect, that it may instruct others
392
aeons hence in the workings of those same laws, and
ceasing to be pupils, become instead instructors in the
most advanced types of self-ennoblement?
This cannot be madness, neither is it the bizarre exposi-
tion of any theological hypothesis. It is the rational con-
clusion to be drawn from the phenomenon of human
character as we find it in its various stages and stations
all about us from day to day.
The child at school resents disciplining. Doubtless it
believes the teacher to be a tyrant, and the schoolboard
to be anathema to its happiness and welfare spiritually.
It sees no merit in daily confinement in a schoolroom, it
hates the dictates of its elders and remonstrates with
those who would convince it of the practicality of such
discipline in later years, when it takes its place as a com-
ponent part of the group.
How then shall we consider the child, but as a prototype
of the earthly adult who remonstrates with society-and
the Deity-for enforcing principles and laws that are
equally good for it in aeons yet to come?
This may be an exotic interjection-again I say-and
smack of mysticism in a book of this character. But
nevertheless, there are those of us who have to take
these things into consideration in studying such stu-
pendous phases in human relationships as principles and
laws which dictate the behavior of groups.
I can only call attention here to this glaring fact: The
Divine Discipline is upon us, and we are beholden to it.
We seek good for ourselves and our children. We resent
393
...
what we do not understand and are cowed or affrighted
by that which lies beyond our immediate interpretation.
Human erudition since the dawn of earthly time has
brought forth no other explanation worthy of credence
for human experience as we perceive it. On the other
hand, great libraries are in existence containing the most
overwhelming evidence of its certainty for those who
would investigate the validity of the theory in circum-
stances.
~~~~°"'i:.pajOW THEN, coming back to Constitutional
and International Law, what do we find
when we consider people in such unit
groups as nations? fJI That nations them-
selves are made up of unit groups is a
platitude. But that human beings are anything else
than group consciousness, exercising its nationalisms in
terms of world order and calling it International Law, is
not a platitude.
Far, far from it.
It is a tenet of the most vigorous originality.
We mus~ think of nations as spiritual groups with
theories of life, impacting on one another and gaining
thereby in experience, exactly as we think of human be-
ings as spiritual entities gaining most profit individually
by belonging to a group.
Until that stage of logic is universal, we are not going to
understand or interpret internationality. And we must
understand and accept internationality, or violate the
394
law of human procedure: that if a human being does
not advance, he retrogrades ; he cannot stand still and
live, since the very act of life itself is a constructive
projection ~ ~
I have no bone to pick with those who contend that life
is often cruel in its various manifestations-cruel,· that
is, in the actual suffering of physical pain, and the en-
durance of many kinds of mental and spiritual torture.
But I do not admit that physical pain, or mental or
spiritual torture, is destructive or derogatory in the
slightest degree to spiritual development.
The more cruel the suffering, the greater the develop-
ment. People who never suffer are the human non-
entities. Many a cripple knows more about the Eternal
Verities than the athlete whose body is a poem, but
whose spirit is a jest.
Life is a projection of groups, I have said. It rests upon
the operation of certain elementary laws of Cause and
Effect. The group may be a New England sewing circle,
or the domain of a Frederick the Great-made up of
twenty persons or twenty million. But when we come
to the law of Cause and Effect, we find it as potent and
inescapable to the twenty as it is to the twenty million.
And when we come to the practical application of tech-
nical jurisprudence, interpreting those laws in terms of
individual practices, we have a system of discipline-
called Politics-that is as essential to the activities of the
twenty or the twenty millions as the air that they breathe
is necessary to their physical existences.
395
Politics as politics, further, is the translating of the group
erudition into expedients, for universal unit-acceptance
and utility.
Man never yet made a law! He has only written or
coded interpretations of how he chooses to respond to
the eternal verities.
He has no desire to further his own progress by giving
himself as a unit to those verities cheerfully; he only
does it under the group lashing, for preservation of the
group or the species. He gives himself with apparent
willingness, only so long as he discerns a personal profit
in some form of physical security or mental tranquillity.
He has no desire to better himself for the sake of better-
ment; he has to be driven to it by mentors, or race
leaders, making him to see what he could be by recog-
nizing what he is.
He opens the door of his spirit to intelligenc~, and social
solidarity, only because he is made to do so by the laws
of cause and effect operating within the group conscious-
ness, or sometimes the result of it.
He makes unto himself palaces of marble because he
sees the physical or spiritual enjoyment derived from
such a habitation on the part of others who outstrip him
intellectually ~ ~
He is a child in school, remonstrating against wiser
heads that know what education is alt about and why
it is necessary.
Coming to Constitutional Law applied internationally
therefore, we find mankind arguing over the projection
396
of something that has already been projected and is
older than his species. We find him misinterpreting law
for application of law in this specific instance. We find
him making mountains out of molehills, and battleships
out of row~boats. We find him playing with his thumbs
and thinking he has discovered something new in
anatomy~.~
International law is nothing but group consciousness
applicable to .immense numbers, or constitutional recog~
nitions of jurisprudence applicable to those of all creeds
and bloods.
We have, then, to consider it from the standpoint of the
ward~heeler·s practices enforced by the policeman·s
nightstick. . . .
397
THE TWENTY-SEVENTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~ THE TWENTY-SEVENTH DISCUSSION ~
HAVE said that Constitutional
Law embraces more than a
written document giving life to
a State, or to a series of States.
It is the modus operandi by
which people of a given turn of
mind declare the kind of gov-
ernment under which they shall
live. f][ It is more. It says that
humankind as individuals has certain inalienable rights
that the mass is bound to respect. It says that human-
kind can do thus-and-so-which implies, none the less,
that its functionings as individuals also are limited.
Specifications as to an office always imply the limitations
of that office-or rather, that the office has limitations.
That is a broad principle of Common Law.
Speci1ications are given that the nature of an office may
be 'described and understood.
The giving of rights to an individual, or an organization,
implies the taking away of other rights which would not
be called into question if the first were not projected.
The logic of this is irrefutable. We have laws making
401
for the permanence of the American Union. Those laws
say that a man, or a State, may do a certain thing. The
thing may be good or bad in its ultimate result, but that
which is projected is projected because of qualifying cir-
cumstances functioning negatively as well as positively.
f][ Here, then, is the argument: A set of circumstances
empower a man with certain liberties. He exercises
those liberties. A point comes in such liberties where
the exercising of them infringes on the rights of others.
Thereat comes an impasse where the liberties so speci-
fied cease to be positive and become negative. The
moment they do that, qualification is necessary in terms
of limitation. So the law that adjudged a liberty and
defined it, defines its limitations. And limitations -in
turn demand interpretation. Thus a positive law always
carries a negative interpretation, and a negative interpre-
tation is a circumscription of power or office.
Applying this argument to inalienable rights under a
Constitution, we discover ourselves constantly inten-
preting, not positivisms but negations.
Every law, carrying its positive and negative factors, im-
plies that inalienable rights are never such-a paradox
that is the essence of all true law.
Law does not give power, since power is power of itself.
Circumscription of power is law, instead, on any plane
of social activity.
A law may say, "This thing you may do," and it might
seem to transmit power thereby to the doer. But in
performance in reality, it says, "This thing you can
402
do to the following point and not beyond that point.••
The character of law, therefore, must be more negative
than positive.
Inalienable rights as such-in perpetuity-would be
rights which took no account of qualifying factors aris-
ing after such rights were bestowed. They might bring
social chaos, if society reached a point where any man's
inalienable rights injured every other man's inalienable
rights. The mere fact that we describe them as inalien-
able rights implies in itself that perhaps they are not.
fJ[ To say that inalienable rights are only those which do
no harm to one's fellows is an utter fallacy as well.
Injury may be caused by any sort of excess or intemper-
ance in specifying one's inalienable rights too gener-
ously, as much as by exercising an uncurbed appetite
for a food or a drug.
It is every man's inalienable right to eat food to sustain
life, or to receive drugs under a physician's direction to
assuage physical agony. But excessive use of food or
drink poisons the system and may cause whole com-
munities to retrograde, physically or mentally. Many
kinds of drugs cannot be taken promiscuously without
wreaking harm on public life generally. At some point
therefore, so-called inalienable rights cease to be such
and become usurpation.
I maintain that it is the province of Law to set these
stakes-specific statutes in the case of the individual,
and constitutional decrees for States and principalities.
fJ[ Constitutional Law therefore is by its essence inter-
403
pretative always. It cannot be held to a hard and fast
pattern any more than human nature can be so held in
its evolution, else it defeats its own purpose. It becomes
stagnant and useless.
The interpretation of a Constitution therefore, is the
Constitution in actionI
We have states in society which say that Law is to curb
excess in any form. But it is also to galvanize impulses ·
-and urges-which otherwise would not be vented.
Thus the recent Prohibition Law while introvert in prin-
ciple, also attempted to motivate Temperance-accord-
ing to its sponsors. But I hold that this sort of thing is
a tragic mistake. It is responsible for more disrespect
for law than any other factor bearing on jurisprudence
as Law in action.
To say that a negative law, or a circumscribed law, is
also positive and constructive, would seem to be a
mirror-like expression of our recent paradox. But does
this hold? Let us reason together again and see. . . .
fJf Human nature is so constituted that it would run
amuck in self-assertion if it were not curbed by social
statutes. Every man with a grievance against his neigh-
bor would feel free to slay him indiscriminately. Every
man desiring another man's wife would take her inso-
lently-if he were strong enough physically to accom-
plish it. Every man having a vast fortune would over-
turn society at his whim by the debasing of public char-
acters according to their venality and his willingness to
buy his end in infamy.
404
These urges are basic and rest upon the evolution of
individualism. But individualism gains no end when
it pulls down the social structure upon its own head.
Human nature quickly recognizes that it cannot make
progress unless mind cooperates with mind--as I have
expressed in a former chapter.
Human nature therefore is both positive and negative
even in its self~assertions. To say, however, that a law
may galvanize constructively while limiting or demark-
ing, is not the same thing in substance.
Laws give power for the individual or organization, but
it is the power of capacity-not the force of action.
Laws give structures on which to build the walls of self-
expression, but they do not actually perform the build-
ing-men must do that for themselves.
Laws which bound, therefore, cannot galvanize con-
structively because they are encqmpassing but not force-
ful. The two qualifications are different in essence.
Because this is so, men cannot be galvanized by law.
They can be galvanized by threat of punishment under
a law, but that too is negation of a sort since it implies
police regulation-which is again limitation.
Laws are not meant to have creative power else they
could not be laws, but would become manifestations of
divine Providence. God cannot say, "Be good!" and
propound it as a law to man, since being good is a
creative act on the part of the living entity toward one's
self~~
Laws aiming at the public good are never good of them-
405
selves, therefore; they simply limit the prescribed power
of evil forces, allowing human nature to do its own
creating, devoid of destructive influence working
against it.
Here it may be necessary to interject a qualification
concerning Law as such, despite other definitions given
earlier in these volumes. Because all that I am saying
now is essentially apropos of Law in its larger inter-
national aspects.
Too much confusion exists all over the earth as to what
Law is, anyhow. Law is not a prescription for con-
structive effort in the body politic-which is just where
the would-be international law coders go astray. We
often misterm such prescriptions "laws" because they
are decreed or enacted by legislative powers. These are
really attributes of the social consciousness in action
toward a beneficent end, and, as such, they are no
more laws than so many guide-posts at so many
road-forks ~ ~
True law is always a codification of human conduct!
(jf Speaking with authority is empty wordage unless the
address be consistent with human reason and circum-
stance. Nevertheless, certain abstract principles are
recognizable as authoritative because of their inherent
truth~~
On this basis I declare the statement to be authoritative
that law is only Law when it codifies human conduct in
relation to living entities. And such codification is
always negative-and circumscribing-even when it is
406
positive and attributive in surface inidcation ~ ~
Let me put this in another way: When you propound a
law that says, "Man shall live at peace with his neigh-
bor," you also say, "Kill man at your peril." When you
propound a law that says, "You shall be temperate," you
are saying in effect, "Be intemperate at the penalty of
the body politic." You cannot state a law in terms of
construetive positivism without requiring or implying
some sort of negative penalty.
This is because the essence of Law is always limitation!
b~~&~~iklONSTITUTIONAL law, we have seen, is
the body politic's decreeing what shall be-
come· mandatory for the greatest good of
the greatest numbers. It is forever inter-
pretative-an expounding of the princi-
ples of agreement under this head. Constitutional Law
goes further, however, and says, "Great numbers of
people have diverse interests as opposed to other num-
bers, equally great. What shall we do about it? We shall
find bases of settlement of our troubles and social com-
plications by consulting together on what is best from
the common viewpoint. And as common viewpoint
must be always in evolution--even as the forces that
effect it are also in evolution-taking a man or a State
and putting thumbscrews on either is policing in either
case. Subscribing to broad fundamental principles laid
down by mass concept, is something else again, and
that in essence is true Constitutional Law, but always
407
negative and circumscribing in its ultimate attainment..,.
t]l I would leave no one thinking, however, that the ef-
fects of such enactments are necessarily negative. One
of the greatest paradoxes of jurisprudence is that a
negative limitation can bring about a positive attribution
in its effect on social forces-which may seem confusing
for the moment after our former sequence of reasoning,
but which carries no confusion when it is applied to any
concrete illustration. ~
The Fathers who wrote the American Constitution took
Magna Carta and the Rights of Man and welded them
into as nearly a national instrument as the general erudi-
tion of the times permitted. A period of the wildest
radicalism ensued, in which State agencies did their
utmost to obstruct and nullify the broadest aspects of
this mass determination to make Magna Carta a political
instrument. This came about because of individual ir-
responsibilities, blindness to true self-interest, negation
of self-evident witnessings of evils and a general re-
.action by the people of the period to an authority too
centralized and effective.
All the arguments, fears, obstructions, alarms, and scat-
terbrain acclaimings that now attend against America's
joining any world court, or league of nations, are by no
means original with present-day disputants. Page after
page of Alexander Hamilton's "Federalist" recites po~­
tulations, diatribes, and rancors against a centralized
federal authority that read like a current senatorial de-
bate reported in the Congressional Record against any
408
form of participation in foreign organizations that would
disrupt or menace our present, isolation.
This Constitutional Period, as we now call it, was made
up of sophisms, political derogations, animalistic greeds,
civic usurpations, and the desire on the part of the public
to shape its own political destiny by districts without
adequate scholastic background to ballast popular con-
cepts of what G!'.>Vernment is in its essence.
Man said: "We would free ourselves from tyranny."
In his ignorance he saddled upon himself the greatest
tyranny of all: Artful lawlessness, and flagrant discredit
of his own elected representatives.
Men said: "We will have no part nor parcel in the ex-
ploded theory of the divine right of monarchs." So they
showed their disregard of monarchy by patterning after
monarchy in their own individual behaviors.
They said: "We will erect a new government, con-
ceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that
all men are created equal." Whereupon they turned
about and concocted a government that has now come
to treat its devotees, and most loyal supporters, as serfs
and mutes-with true liberty and equality only for him
who has the fattest purse.
Great brains came forward and manifested their quali-
fications by bringing order and prestige out of license,
privilege, and libertinism. They marked and demarked
those pathways along which society should travel, to-
. wards self-sustainment and consistent privilege toward
opportunity ~ ~
409
The framers of the Constitution at no time deluded
themselves that they were creating anything new, or
making a concordance of political doctrine that should
meet every emergency that ever arose in the American
nation. They knew their own fallibilities. They knew
that men were men first, and political units second. They
knew that need might arise for all manner of flexibility
in interpretation of what they believecl to be the best
concordance of human rights produced up to that era.
They never had a thought that the American Constitu-
tion was the last word in government-demagogues to
the contrary notwithstanding. They said: "We have
witnessed certain evils in other governments to date and
would avoid them. This is how we would avoid them.
But our children's children may see that we have been
in error, therefore amendments to this instrument may
be supernal wisdom. We project this doctrine as the
best thought of this period, admitting our inability to
cover every dilemma which shall arise under the law
which this instrument stabilizes as a certificate of mun-
dane principles that must ever have their bases in ex-
pediency" ~ ~
These framers of our Constitution were wise men-
naturally. They had few axes to grind, or wounds of
their own vanity to heal. They gave the best they had
to this great instrument and left it to their children to
show equal wisdom in the application of their funda-
mental concepts of political truths. Those children,
however, have not kept the faith nor shown such wis-
410
dom. They have assumed that because their forefathers
were their forefathers, they were naturally the more
erudite and expert as political economists. They have
grossly neglected the vitality of their Constitution by
permitting it to become surrounded with an aura of
mysticism, as an answer to their own indolence and lack
of perception of unfolding requirements of those who
now live or follow after. Supinely they have allowed
aliens reared in the antithesis of constitutionalism to
supplant them in councils of State, and influence con-
stitutional decree in alien favor.
The end and aim of such phlegmatism and unworthi-
ness, is to make dogma serve for spirituality, and form
for spirit.· They, the children, have prostituted their own
intelligence by saying that the forefathers were the
wiser. They have looked on life and found it more or
less pleasant. It has never occurred to them that vigi-
lance and improvement were obligations-not profanity
of the fathers' doctrines. They see life as devoid of
the fathers' problems and therefore the fathers' doc-
. trines are responsible for making life what· they find it.
They do not discern that other agencies and principles
have been responsible for the American government as
they now know and castigate it.
They see life as an increasing unfoldment, whereby an
adherence to the principles and precepts of the fathers
will be a perpetual assurance of longevity of enjoyment
under it. They are not concerned with problems but
with saxophones. They are not concerned with Politics
411
but with the loot of political parties. They have small
desire to serve; they wish to be served. They acknowl-
edge their indebtedness to political principles but think
that no effort needs to be made to discover new prin-
ciples and apply them to current problems.
They are politically lazy, and civically lethargic.
They ride the calliope of selfishness not realizing that
the calliope is usually at the end of the social parade ~
t] We have problems confronting us in America today
so titanic that if the fathers could return as they once
were, and behold them, they would be stricken with a
sort of terror at the danger to the institutions to which
they gave so much.
Constitutional Law as a cure for those dangers, how-
ever, is only of value as it prescribes the principles under
which solut1'6n may be found. But going back again to
the fathers, no amount of principles can be forever ade-
quate when the needs and deeds of the children are cir-
cumscribed by their own inefficiencies of administration.
t] You cannot have a government under a Constitution
-or any other form of civil control-unless you have
the persons willing to consider its ramifications as vital
to their own well being, and not only recognize this but
believe and practice it.
Constitutional law today is in disrepute, and its proper
and timely application as a premise for international law
as a living force among the nations, is affected, not be-
cause it makes impossible demands on human nature-
or that human nature has altered in its basic tenor-but
412
because the average individual has not sensed the in~
sidious propaganda that has been carried on to discount
all law, and our own forms of law in particular, that are
antagonistic to the designs of vast numbers of plotting
aliens who would make us subservient to a Jewish Com-
munistic oligarchy and debauch our Christian culture to
serve the ends of their own spiritual decadence.
I would not have anyone think that life is merely an
endurance under some form of government, constitu~
tional or otherwise. But spiritual.ennoblement requires
that human beings function to their maximum as human
units, while at the same time employing themselves as
members of the civic whole.
From both expressions of ethical culture do we derive
that which is essential to our growth as souls.
To say that one is more important than the other is to
beg the issue. Both are equally important. But indi~
vidual awareness can only come about through the most
trenchant group relationships, group vigilance, and
group sagacity. And all these, conversely, are usually
predicated on the individual's reactions to life as he per-
ceives it, and the exercise of his highest quality of con-
sciousness. Given a workable Constitution as a start-
ing-point for a government-and I allude here to a world
political form as much as to a form that serves for forty-
eight American States-the problem of those to be gov-
erned under it is not only to interpret themselves to
themselves but to discern that which is clandestinely sub-
versive to original principles.
413
Human nature needs beneficent discipline, whether it
come from its own will power, civic administration, a
national or international police force, the Sermon on the
Mount, or the manifested effects of subversion when it
has been allowed to mature in violence, spoliation, de-
struction and massacre. But you cannot drive human
natu:re into an interest in community laws, national
policies, or international postulations, by making more
laws, and emphatically not by derogating those already
made-or course referring to enacted statutes.
Laws are made by the consent of the governed, or the
fiats of some authority, for the purpose of aiding human
nature to realize itself and its concurrent opportunities
for social facility and spiritual ennoblement.
They are not instruments of progress but decrees of
limitations passed for constructive purposes, made from
human intelligence to enhance the pattern of beautiful
living and social solidarity without loss of individualism.
fJl They are made by the masses out of their own self-
consciousness as to what is best for the greatest number,
and function only so long as a sense of social obligation
permeates down to the man in the street.
Trite and banal as some of these statements may seem,
they are so paramount-as underlying our national and
international predicament-that they seem to shrink the
individual, and lose him in the mass. They really do the
exact reverse. They make the individual the product of
the mass, and tumult ensues by the individual soul's los-
ing a sense of his entity as an individual unit.
414
To take the cognizance of individual responsibility and
put it forth as a shibboleth of mass improvement, is the
most aggressive function of constitutional law-espe-
cially as applied to internationality. On this broad
premise, a premise that comprises all history of social
evolution and yet is no bigger than the individual man's
soul, we must build the coming mammoth international
structure-after the insidious propaganda for quite dif-
ferent ends has been recognized for what it is and has
been met with the permanent erasement which it merits.
«] Out of the welter of the conflict of the individual with
the group, has been born all Law, and the individual must
recognize this if he would eliminate conflict from his
daily activity. He must recognize the principle also that
only as he acts as an individual, yet with group
mentality, will he enhance his own spiritual progress
and make for utopia in society. Transpose the word
Nation for individual, and World Society for group, and
the principle not only holds up but is a thousand times
as potent. Of course there are those who do not want
the social utopia, but. on the whole they are negligible
beside those vast numbers whose daily lives are a· con-
crete expression of their yearning for a more inhabitable
earth. Until we recognize that all society is but a coagu-
lation of individual souls seeking expression in group
forms, we will probably have social confusion that re-
quires the sternest law enforcement, or the force of
limitation set at variance with their desires.
Humankind is a universal child, resenting the careful
415
parent who would keep it from the pitfalls of existence
yet complaining to that parent, and out of its own wilful-:-
ness, falling and being injured. Let us have a state of
society where every man realizes that the ills he suffers
are strictly self-imposed, and we will speedily cease to be
children in the phenomenon of self-government. We
will cease to be children as nations, afraid to join hands
with one another for the supernal benefit of the species.
CJ[ And yet, when all is said and done, there must be
something deeper than individual indifference to such an
attainment-something deeper than political illiteracy,
something stronger than national vanity-that keeps the
nations from getting together even on an avowed Con-
stitutional basis, which up to 1929 had proven so suc-
cessful in the case of America.
How deep must we dig to unearth that Something, like
a vicious psychological complex, that we may realize our
Utopia on a speedier and more practical basis?
Why is it that the Man in the Street cannot envision in-
ternationality in terms of his own well-being, in recog-
nizably enhanced economics, immunity from disastrous
international conflicts, and the spiritual conservation of
his species? Has he a deeply abiding perception of the
pitfalls that alien marplots are digging for his country?
Does he, as a citizen, truly worship the God of National
Isolation in his heart? What specific thing is needed to
galvanize the interest of average humanity in a more
equitable form of World Management? Is the answer
so obvious that again we do not see the forest for trees?
416
THE TWENTY-EIGHTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~ THE TWENTY-EIGHTH DISCUSSION ~
HERE are many capable thinkers
~~..,.,,_~~•....J who have concluded that man
as a species is gregarious but
not social. He is imperious but
not kingly. He has all of the
attributes of a god but few of a
god·s graces--especially co:m-
passion or capacity for om-
nipotent thinking. They have
reached the conclusion that so long as this is so, it is
folly to talk about any aesthetic State in which the will
of the majority is of a reliable quality-taken either na-
tionally or internationally-able to adjudicate for hu-
mankind as races. They have decided that mankind
needs a sound thrashing to make it really human.
Furthermore, such thrashing must be administered
practically, or man sinks in the mire of his own ineffi-
ciency and unworthiness to be called a ruler of anything.
As he is not yet capable of commanding his own soul,
how does mass action render him capable of command-
ing the group soul?
They claim, these thinkers, that man is inherently ani-
419
mal, that he responds instinctively to his bestial urges,
runs with the herd without herd obedience, makes of
himself generally a sociological maverick.
He is only social when it suits his animalism to be social.
He is a great anarchist in his private spirit.
He makes claims on the other fellow's liberties, but re,.-
sents any intrusion on his own.
He follows no well-defined law in his own conduct ex-
cept self-interest and self-preservation.
He is more or less of a nuisance on a planet where all
other forces follow tenets of conduct that are positive in
cause and effect. Each man would become a law unto
himself if agencies above him in sagacity and wisdom
did not visit him with their periodic displeasure.
They are correct in this thinking-within certain limita-
tions. Where they fall down, is in failing to take into
consideration the true nature 9f man. They make a mis-
take both twofold and colossal: thinking of him as an
animal or creature of his instincts, or thinking of him as
a natural force that must follow blindly the dictates of
causation ~ ~
I submit that whatever else man may be, he is not an
animal. He may function in an animal body and this
body may behave from moment to moment from animal
reflexes. He may likewise be physically compelled, be-
cause of his automatism, to react to laws of natural
causation ~ ~
Man, however, has a higher destiny than the animals,
and a higher objective than blindly following the courses
420
prescribed for inorganic matter. Man is a sublimated
ape only insofar as his body manifests. Inside that body,
and acting upon it, is something known as Spirit, and un-
til we know what this phenomenon of creation is, how
it functions, and what its ultimate attainment is to be,
we cannot discourse intelligently on the conduct of na-
tions-which are only collective groups of individuals.
tJl The opening chapters of the Bible inform us that man
was created in the "image" of God. People who have
never given very much examination to the subject, in-
terpret this to mean that because man is found function-
ing today as a sublimated ape, that God Himself is an
enlarged replica of this sublimated ape form.
This replica is seriously referred to as the Anthropo-
morphic God ~ ~
The human mind, being the accretion of sense percep-
tions, is so constituted that it can only conceive in terms
of form. To it, God as an abstract principle, has been,
is now, and ever will be, unthinkable. So the early theo-
logians gave Him a voice to admonish man, or an arm
to hurl thunderbolts, or legs to "walk in the Garden in
the cool of the day." And yet, further along in the
same Scriptures the expression is graphic that God is
Spirit ~ ~
Now what is Spirit?
We speak of the Spirit of Fair Play, the Spirit of Kind-
ness, the Spirit of Anger, the Spirit of Selfishness. Why
do we have such metaphors? From whence do they
come? Why should we perpetuate them in modern
421
daily speech? Spirit is the essence of the thing ex-
pounded-the circumscription of an idea in terms of
human understanding.
Spirit is not the ghost of a thing, although we commonly
refer to the shades as spirits. Spirit is the Logos of
Understanding, and when we have said that, we have
said a whole library of celestial definition.
The spirit of a thing is its essence. There is no spirit
without essence. Spirit is that part of any form, or
order of creation, that embodies the Essential Idea of
the divine expression in that creation. It is the alpha
and omega of understanding applied to a substance-
quality. It has no beginning and can have no end ~
fJI The spirit of good-fellowship, for instance, is uncreat-
able. It has always been, and it always will be, though
not a single mortal ever be alive to practice it. Now the
strange part is-and a fact continually overlooked by
speculative minds-that the Spirit of anything can actu-
ally have consciousness as we commonly interpret con-
sciousness, or that its very consciousness is its interpre-
tation of creation.
Man, being finite, carries around the idea that nothing
is consciously alive but his own perceiving brain. He
misses the fact that brain as brain is only a set of nerves
and tissues. It can die and change substance. We say
it "loses consciousness," but Brain is far from being
what men think.·
Brain is merely the coagulation of sense-nerves that
have the physiological potency to transfer their percep-
422
tions to the Something in man that is the essence of his
entity-something that, for want of a better term, we
call by the Greek term Psyche.
Conversely, the Something in man that is the essence of
his entity, operates through his brain to manipulate his
animal body ~ ±.!'
What can that Something in man be, but Continuous
Thought? We often refer to it as ..the stream of con~
sciousness,'' as though the Stream of Consciousness
were something apart from man, something occurring
within his body, like the beat of his heart or the growth
of his hair.
We totally overlook the fact that perhaps the Stream of
Consciousness is man in his true essence, and that the
Stream of Consciousness as man in his true essence may
operate independently of physical organism.
If the Stream of Consciousness wished to manifest
physically, or receive physical sensation, it would
naturally function through a physical brain, and by a:
physical body existent in a materialistic world. But the
Stream of Consciousness may by no means need a
physical organism to operate on other levels, or in other
spheres,· or at other velocities, or in other manifestations
than the physical.
The Stream of Consciousness is.
It endures because it is a created Something in, and of,
itself ±!¥ ~
This, to my way of thi~king, is the literal ..image of
God"~~
423
We say clumsily, that God is Thought Incarnate. We
say that man was created in His image. Putting the two
together-or rather comparing the two-we then have
a replica or model of Thought Incarnate in this man--
phenomenon, functioning as the individual's Stream of
Consciousness, the essence of individual man that is his
spirit.~~
Because man, in his physical state, is not physically con-
scious of his Stream of Consciousness at other velocities
than that of Substance, or on other planes than those
of the physical, does not mean that the Stream of Con-
sciousness does not maintain.
I say that the Stream of Consciousness is man himself
as an individual, only available to himself in self-aware-
ness on the plane on which he is functioning at the
moment~~
A man on the physical plane may function sixteen hours
out of the twenty-four through his physical brain. Then
he may lie down on his bed and function in Essence for
eight hours on a wholly different plane, much higher
than the physical. He has the same identity in both in-
stances, but manifests in two or more totally different
states of Being, both or all of which retain their own
Streams of Memory but neither of which is known fully
to the other.
When this is clearly understood by practical psycholo-
gists as well as by so-called metaphysicians, much in
man's nature and behavior that is now enigmatic will be
accounted for. The argument advanced by some ma-
424
terialistic critics that unless the two Memory Streams are
known to each other there is no concrete profit to the
individual, is an abstract speculation without basis in
logic, since the values accrue only to spirit in terms of
spiritual refinement, no matter from what plane they
may be derived.
Spiritual refinement is never dependent on locality. So
long as this spiritual refinement displays practically in
the spiritual texture, what matters it how or whence it
was derived? ~ ~
Man is only an animal as he utilizes the body-form of
the sublimated ape on a physical level for self-expression
-and the receiving of the lessons of physical, percep-
tional experience. He is spiritual in the sense that he
lives a life entirely separate from his physical instru-
mentality. He has always done it, he always will do it.
q When he no longer practices in the material velocity
as an entity-that is, when he permanently discards the
physical instrumentality for expression-we say that
he is "dead." But the essence of himself is not dead.
The essence of him can no more die than the abstract
concept of the Spitit of Good Fellowship can die as an
idea~~
Now then, take man not as a physical organism but as
the Spirit of Conscious Perception, able to function at
his own caprice wherever Thought can function, and
consider what happens when he finds himself exhibiting
in the clumsy apparatus of earthly mortality.
He is essentially a creature of caprice in that Abstract
425
Thought is rampant, can go where it pleases, and con-
ceive of what it pleases. But only as it goes down into
fleshly form and manifests physically in all the sensa-
tions, handicaps, and disciplinary interclusions of
worldly residence, can the individual Thought Stream
know constructive self-control.
Given a world of cause and effect, pleasure and pain,
joy and sorrow, into which the rampant Thought-Es-
sence is, from the mundane viewpoint, plunged more
or less promiscuously, we have a structure that fulfils
the loving purpose of benefiting that which is projected
into it. Consider now the machinery involved, the
processes employed, and the ends and aims effected :1:.(1
fJf These machineries, these processes, these ends and
aims, must have laws to work by, else we could never
identify them for what they are.
A mechanical ensemble is known for what it produces.
This positive production may be termed the "law of the
machine," identifying it as separate and distinct from
every other type of machine. Every earthly process,
no matter how complicated, is shaped and molded by
an identifying medium that can be called the "law of the
process." Every end and aim that concerns human
activity as such, and is recognized as such, fulfils-or is
the outcome of-an orderly trend of events in circum-
stances that we call the "law of happenings."
Where then does this lead us, when humankind as the
essence of a manifesting Thought Stream suddenly em-
ploys a physical organism to bring benefit of some sort
426
to itself? Where but this: that the essential Thought
Stream that is individuality, is demonstrating the fact of
"law" in and unto itself, in ·Law's purest form:
Identity~~
Now the law governing Identity is one of the pro-
foundest in all Nature. It has for its purpose the dis-
tinction of different Thought Streams· for different ob-
jectives. Each one of these Thought Streams is an
individual man-masculine or feminine, physically. He
is as abstract as the God that he thinks he worships ~
C.l[ God-let us say for the moment-is All Thought, or
the sum total of all thought. This sum total we may
call the great sea of Universal Spirit, in that it mani-
fests as a positive force, in flesh or out of it. From this
great ocean of Universal Spirit-Thought, issue streams
for specific purposes. We identify these Thought
Streams as created human beings. They may mani-
fest in cosmic ether as disembodied entities, or they may
manifest on physical planes as planetary mortals. Why
these humanized Thought Streams found it necessary to
refine themselves, or flow in properly' controlled chan-
nels, where they are flowing, and what the purpose may
be of their flowing at all, are not for discussion in this
work. I have already written nearly a million words
upon it in other books. We are concerned here to find
out exactly what happens when each individual Thought
Stream finds itself possessed of an organism with which
to operate at the mortalized velocity, and how it oper-
ates and functions in relation to all the other Thought
427
Streams similarly operating and functioning ~ ~
This process is known elsewhere as "coding the Laws
of Harmony." These Laws of Harmony are the basis
on which the physical universe is built. They are also
the basis on which the social structure rests. They per-
form all that is performed in mortal manifestation. They
see to it that ether, the one original substance, performs
according to divine intent from sunbeam to physical
monstrosity. They are as positive as the decrees of
gravitation, and to oppose them means nihility.
Since without them in operation nothing exists, thereby
are they Creation.
Coming down to man then, what do we find but divine
harmony coding itself in forms of physical manifesta-
tion-.particularly in living bodies-·-for the physical ex-
pression of individual Streams of Consciousness mani-
festing in, and from, the Great Ocean of the Infinite?
fJ[ People, therefore, are not what biologists, theologians,
or ethical culturists, would popularly have us accept.
They are not laws unto themselves, but expressions of
laws that are the essence of creation itself.
Man is Abstract Thought made concrete through a long
series of physical-form expressions called "lives." He
is concrete only as he manifests from a standpoint, or
angle, of a positive self-awareness. He says to him-
self, "I AM," but he does not-because he cannot-say
this until he has passed through a long program of
physical experiences, and pleasure-pain reflexes, that
have made him aware of himself as a particle or stream-
428
let of Divine Thinking, separate and distinct from all
other particles and streamlets.
AH these take on different natures because of different
sets of circumstances through which they have endured
-or rather, as we say, sensed. These particles and
streamlets must each experience differently and sep-
arately in order to achieve individuality. The world of
physical life as we know it supplies these differentiatng
circumstances. These circumstances determine indi-
viduality. But there is a point reached where each one
of them must become cognizant of every other as part
and parcel in these qualifying circumstances. This cog-
nizance is expressed in terms of sociability, or group
cognizance ~ ~
Where then does this get us in applying this Rule of
Harmony, or constructive progress, to the individual
lives of persons, groups, or nations'?
Nature has decreed that each person shall have varying
experiences in order to bring about the awareness of
individuality. This awareness is essential to cognizance
of all life everywhere, its purposes and attainments.
Nature has said in terms of Biology, "Be fruitful and
multiply"-·-that is, give as many Thought Streams op·
portunity for flowing and experiencing on the physical
plane as is economically possible under natural condi-
tions. Propagation is therefore a tenet of divine cos-
mogony. It is not physical debauchery, nor the prompt-
ings of lust or flagellated organisms. These prompt·
ings toward propagation must be sacred in essence.
429
When we find a group or a nation with a high birth
rate, it must be because there is a greater opportunity
under that national culture for individual Thought
Streams to acquire a sense of awareness. China and
India are two countries where the social groupings offer
more toward consciousness of self-awareness, than in
any other forms of planetary society. France, England,
and America, have lower birth rates, comparatively,
because they offer less to the individual in pleasure-pain
experiencings ~ ~
Life is not constituted essentially so that souls pick out
the easiest and pleasantest modes of existence, or types
of social groupings that are immediately highest in
development. Life in the physical world seems to be
viewed by souls for far different· values than they are
made to embrace after they get into it. If they take the
time and trouble to go down into the flesh experience
at all, it is to learn a stronger sense of self-awareness that
only comes from the most powerful forms of self-ex-
pression in experience. I am speaking now of ordinary
souls seeking maximum profits for themselves, not
necessarily for the race. They go down into the flesh
experience to learn, not to loiter in pleasant places ~
f:lf Lands with a high birth rate, where the overcrowding
seems cruel according to mortal judgment, offer a strug-
gle for existence that is the very essence of awareness.
Given a country of a high birth rate, you must therefore
have a country of·high spiritual possibilities. This does
not mean, of course, that the highest evolved souls in-
430
habit countries of a high birth rate. It means that souls
born into that country's culture endure more and there-
fore get their needed primary lessons in awareness with
the utmost facility.
Let us not continue to think of China, Japan, and India,
and in a measure Russia and Italy, therefore, as lands
where living is undesirable or disdainful. Let us con-
sider them as cradles of opportunity wherein young
spirits are rocked, to gain their most vigorous lessons in
cosmogony ~ ~
Life in these countries is therefore primordial in motif.
It originates the first graspings of true self-awareness.
It startles the soul, so to speak, into making its high,
1:1.pward journey. As the soul proceeds through many
lives, inhabiting many lands, and learning stronger and
stronger self-cognizance in each experience, it acquires
a facility in such recognition that increasingly demands
less rigor in personal sensation and spiritual adventure.
Therefore it begins to inhabit those countries or lives
under whose civilizations economic pressure is less
vicious and where the pleasure experiences outbalance
the pain experiences. Not that it ever reaches an earthly
state or station where no pain is essential, but after
sufficient pain has been experienced there comes a period
of polishing off, so to speak, when the individual Stream-
let of Consciousness learns to flow smoothly as a unit
in highly developed social groups, with pleasure allotted
to give it values which pain does not convey.
This process is the flowering of the individual into a
431
status that is very near to the heaven of the Funda-
mentalists ~ ~
When the state of the individual essence is so fine-or
better, refined-that even life in such higher groups can
teach it little, it slips permanently into groups even
higher than those at the apex of life on earth, and comes
back into flesh only to minister to, advise, counsel, or
help direct the earth processes of existence as great
leaders and great teachers for those still in the turmoil
of self-evolution.
I~~~ N ALL of this I am looking at the bald
facts of life as evinced by what anyone
can see in action in every land and clime
at the present moment. Sociologists
ponder and grope as to why-in a world
of natural equality for all other species-there should
be such sordid coagulations of humanity as we find in
China or India, as opposed to the highly developed cul-
ture of Franee or America. Can we not understand by
the evidence at the disposal of our reason, that these
cultural subdivisions have not happened by chance?
And neither are they perpetuated by circumstances ~
fJf They must be divinely ordained, in constructive logic,
for the beneficent purpose of making people to know
that they ARE, and that each condition and station of
living must be evidence of an attainment, no matter
what the stations yet ahead may be.
Life in the world is ever constructive. That is, it goes
432
onward and upward, never backward or downward.
This upward process is the Process of Creation. Creation
is going on constantly. Ultimate perfection is never
attained, else Creation would cease and there would
be no universe. No matter how high a soul evolves, to
the end of all time there will be opportunity for further
refinement or the expression of further phases of
creation ~ ~
When we say that a soul has attained to a Heaven-in
the sense that it cannot profit fu'rther by physical adven-
turings-we mean that it has gained all that physical
adventuring can teach it. But nothing created is per-
fect. Nothing, certainly not Incarnate Thought, ever
attains to that state where further education is im-
possible~ ~
These Thought Streams that are men, therefore, gather
themselves into social groups as another phase of per-
fecting their self-awareness. They meet with one
another socially, politically, and commercially. They
see the effects of different circumstances on other
Streams of Thought or consciousness. Thereby they
learn lessons of patience, tolerance, and infinite com-
passion for one another. Sometimes they read into
each others' courses and careers, their own experiences,
and that is blessed to their own evolution since they gain
in perception of their own attributes.
The time will come, considered speculatively, in the
evolution of each Consciousness or Stream of Self-
Expression, when it will rule over diverse groups of
433
..... -
similar creations on other planets and planetary systems
than earth, for the universe exists by multiplying or
progressing in turn, else it would not exist at all. A
hundred thousand million worlds will doubtless yet come
into being, each one requiring its Chrystos Force over it.
fjf This Chrystos Force is nothing but a Stream of Con-
sciousness of such ultimate achievement and encom-
passment that it surpasses anyone or anything given into
its hand for ruling, although ruling is here a wrong
term to use. Ruling implies police jurisdiction, whereas
the idea to be conveyed is supreme sacrifice in service.
fJI Our Lord Jesus is the highest exponent we have of
this celestial progress, with which we have contact. He
speaks of God the Father in terms of intimacy, as though
God the Father were a sublimated patriarch. Constantly
during His ministry He referred to the Host. These are
all terms, or symbols, intelligible to organisms that can
only conceive for the present in aspects of forms.
Our Beloved Prince of the Nations is a literal Entity, and
yet on the other hand, He is likewise a Sublime Stream
of Consciousness-as we are all·of us lesser Streams of
Consciousness-making His evolutionary way up
through Cosmogony to an ever-increasing equipment
and unfoldment.
Ruling over a planet, therefore, in the sense that I have
implied, can be only another incident in the perfecting
of our own spiritual equipment. There are higher de-
sires and glories than masquerading in the kingly form
and concept; but these, of course, to the finite con-
434
sciousness now in its kindergarten of spiritual aware-
ness, are on the whole unknowable.
The message of most majesty and inspiration that man-
kind in its present fleshly jacket can receive, is that each
and every one of us has a kinship with the Christ in
this: that there is not one amongst us, no matter how
poor, no matter how lowly, no matter how humble, no
matter how gross, but can some day know the glory of
Perfect Service in ministering to some celestial portion
of this ever-expanding universe-that the day will dawn
up infinite aeons of time, when each one of us, too, may
be a Christ of an order, although I grant you that it re-
quires only simple mathematics to grasp that when that
day does dawn for those of us now in mortal flesh, Jesus
of Nazareth as we now know Him will be infinitely
farther ahead of us in grandeur of attainment.
He taught this graphically and emphatically to His dis-
ciples. Those disciples were ordinary men to the world
at large ; they really were spirits of His own order
and family who came into flesh at the time of
His Galilean incursion to carry on His work after His
dematerialization.
They had their parts to play in .the staging of a grand
religious drama for which the world was ready spiritu-
ally. Some of them did not know themselves in flesh
as being of His family; it was not revealed to them
until after the Master had left them in the physical sense.
Some of them did not become aware of it until after their
mortal deaths. But they seem to have been among the
435
oldest souls in earth-life at the time, and they have
''come back" in various guises and manifestations since,
continually interpreting His great earthly mission. He
calls them "members of His family," or "the Goodly
Company"-another concession to mortal nomencla-
ture and the desire for Form in order to have concept.
What He really means is, that they started to be indi-
vidual Streams of Consciousness at about the same time
that He did, and while they may not manifest in flesh
with His facility, that is because they have been guilty
of making retrograde errors from time to time which He
did not make, or they have had some mission to execute
which would have been defeated had they displayed the
miraculous powers which went with His Galilean office.
~Let us get back now, after these understandings and
enlightenments, to the business of considering the ordi-
nary Laws of Human Life in the light of such hypothe-
sis. Or rather, suppose that we consider the true mean-
ing and function of Law in terms of strictly mundane
governmental structure.
436
THE TWENTY-NINTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
THE TWENTY-NINTH DISCUSSION
HAVE spoken of the Law of a
Machine as marking its es-
sential character and function.
Of course that is a wrong
term after a fashion, but it does
express the terminology of
jurisprudence as applied to
machinery. .;JI Here on earth,
then, we have a.given number
of human beings-or mortal intelligences-running into
the billions, seeking expression in physical experience
to make them the more keenly aware of their existence
but also functioning forward and upward towards ever-
retreating Perfection. They cannot function in flesh
with and toward one another without manifesting traits
and essences that are different from each other, because
the experiences of no two men are exactly alike. Given
a group or a nation of these "mortals" in flesh for this
purpose, we find that economic pressure exerts a baleful
influence on them-that is, an influence that is destruc-
tive at times in that it retards instead of helping the
growth of those higher perceptions making for spiritu-
439
ality, although at the same time it may enhance the en-
visioning of themselves as separate individualities ~
(jf This economic pressure is the battle-force of life, and
amid it the Man Spirit fluctuates and oscillates, keeping
as true a balance as possible between those factors which
are destructive of his spiritual growth and those factors
which enhance his sense of individuality.
This economic pressure, incidentally, is one of the
strongest human motivations for dividing into political
cliques called nationalities.
I have said that it is climate, terrain, and anthropological
inheritance, that make for racial differences. But it is
economic pressure that sets one race against another,
and life against life. Understand, it is not always bane-
ful nor is it continually destructive; but it never ceases
to exert an influence on the Stream of Consciousness
that is individual man.
It is one ·of the banks between which the river of life
flows, and while any stream exerts an influence on its
banks, nevertheless its banks determine. the strength of
the current and forever direct its course.
Now then, viewing the individual human life as a
pleasure-pain experience emphatically in contact with
other lives, we find that nations reserve unto themselves
the right of determining what the depth and course of
the human current shall be that flows between the banks
of Economic Pressure and Spiritual Evolution.
We find that they determine what shall be their culture,
their mode of government, and their expressions of
440
ethics and altruisms one toward the other. We find that
they reserve unto themselves the right to regulate these
standards by the promulgation of circumscribing decrees
that express the best methods known to themselves for
enforcing those standards among individuals making up
their States, as against those of their neighbors.
We call these decrees toward standardizations, ·"laws,"
and recognize in them certain merits and demerits. But
we adhere to the inherent right of each nation to issue
them. Only when these laws of one State conflict with
the decrees of another State-or the economic pressure
amid one race supersedes the collective interests of those
of another race-do we have trouble between nations or
peoples ~ Z,.lfl
This is as it should be, up to a certain point. It is in the
methods employed to find a solution of those difficulties,
that humankind errs and does damage to itself as a
species-even to physical extinction at times.
Let us grasp it clearly that these "laws," as we have pro-
pounded them, are not man-made-although man may
seemingly have originated them and put them into force.
These laws are God-made, so to speak, for the definite
purpose of keeping racial stocks and national stations
separate and distinct from one another, and intending
that they shall stay so until the end of time, that the
human ego or Stream of Consciousness-by taking
them in a series or gradations-may have a distinct
ladder to climb in Cosmos, or a sharply defined course
along which to flow.
441
I am steadfastly against any consideration of Interna-
tionalism, because making one race or one nation of all
races and all nations is imponderable and unthinkable,
and I think I have adequately set forth why it is so. Such
an achievement, no matter by what end attained, would
transgress certain cosmic fiats that have been responsible
for the phenomena of racial stocks and stations, to com-
mence with. It would work mischief with the whole
plan of spiritual evolution. Popularly we put it, that
"it would be against Nature." But it would be against
more~~
It would be disruptive and subversive to the edicts of
God Himself for the earthly evolution of the individual
soul~~
I admit that there are cases, and India seems to be one
of them, where conditions are such that the Streams of
Consciousness in the mass are so infantile; in concept,
and so weak in the adaptability of their intellects to
economic pressure, that they would cease to exist as
races or nations if some more highly developed race or
national culture did not intercede for them amid rapaci-
ous neighbors and preserve them unto themselves by en-
forced foreign government.
This sort of thing is equally suitable, and, again I em-
phasize, does not happen by chance or by international
political opportunism or expediency. It .can well be
spiritually manifesting in its finest phase. Evils of
nomenclature do creep in. Opportunities present them-
selves whereby the more intellectual or cultural castes
442
execute designs on the weaker or more ignorant to their
economic profit. But that, in the final analysis, is our
old, old )friend Compensation functioning again.
Even the intellectual and highly cultured nations,
ethically or politically, need the spur and incentive of
economic profit to make them act as mentors and guides
too theirs less favored, for the time being.
\Vhen the moment arrives that the former no 'longer
need to function, or should not function, circumstances
will automatically halt them from functioning.
The scheme as a scheme, however, is divine in concept
and cannot be criticized in logic, when we take the long
view of all human life and the reasons for any earthly
experiences whatever.
Let us now consider what happens in Law and Equity
when one national culture, however fecund of spiritual
values to the individual, becomes racially or economi-
cally obnoxious to its neighbors on a higher plane of
development, expressed in terms of the human equation.
443
t-'t.;~~Wl HE CONDITION known as War is pre-
cipitated ultimately. No matter whether
a nation travels afar to seize another's ter·
ritory or chattels, or whether the squabble
is purely strategic or academic to the man
in the street on either side, there are factors involved
that compel human life to be precarious.
One nation may dissipate itself by watering its racial
stock, or by submitting to the detrimental social effects
of loot. Nevertheless, vast number of persons are jeop·
ardized and their longevity threatened or even termi,;.
nated. All this naturally is odious to the plan of human
experience as a continuous process which must arrive at
some sort of fruition to justify itself.
The nation which makes the war may be victorious or
not. The nation on which the war is launched may, or
may not, be permanently conquered. The fact remains
that war as war, is the supreme disturbance of all the
contributory factors making for the plan's eventual
achievement :t_'lt ~
It is a giving way to impatience on a national scale-
seeking to achieve in a month or a year that which
Nature would settle amicably over a longer period of
time, or which she would bring to pass by some method
which did not interrupt the orderly fruition of the indi-
vidual consciousness in a state of evolving improvement.
fj[ Given two nations that must settle their differences of
Law and Economics by martial strife, we have an un-
natural precipitation of physical forces that leaves in its
444
wake all manner of minor disruptions of orderly evolu-
tion, and sometimes the acme of derogation in suicide.
MADE the statement a few pages back that
many conservative thinkers hold grave
doubts about man's ultimate attainments
as a species, that because he is "inherently
animal" it were folly to talk about any
esthetic state in which the Will of the Majority is a re~
liable quality whereby groups are able to adjudicate for
one another as races. I said that those same thinkers
fail to take into consideration· the true nature of man
and why mankind deports itself so inexplicably when
divided into groups.
Defining man basically, however-as I have attempted
to do in the preceding pages, and depicting his achieve·
ments in view of the apotheosis that I have employed-
is his deportment really as mysterious as the unen-
lightened would accept? Furthermore, considering what
he has accomplished under his Mentors to date, specifi-
cally in a political gesture like the American Govern-
ment-regardless of its faults and demerits in operation
-are we justified in calling the species gregarious but
not social, imperious but not kingly, having attributes
of gods but lacking their graces'; or are we merely criti-
cizing a stage of man's development?
The old theology had this merit at least: It assured us
that God did not judge man until the end of his days.
So I submit that this, too, is an excellent rule for us.to
445
adopt when operating in this New Theology of the di-
vinity of all matter, and that even the lowest and most
besotted teamster is a literal Christ in school.
To say that man is incapable of attaining in interna-
tional mold, what one group like the thirteen American
colonies finally attained in the group mold, is to say that
man is capable of becoming static, that he must already
have reached his growth, and that further development
is beyond him. Man is in constant upward movement-
terrific upward movement. He is unique as an ingredi-
ent in divine psychics, in that he is one Stream-albeit
a Thought Stream-that eccentrically runs uphill.
He is, by his very essence that makes and keeps him
alive, progressing upward to more and more stupendous
concepts. But do not forget that the sum and substance
of his appearance on earth at all, are largely epitomized
in that very display of eccentricity in his behavior, be-
tween individuals or groups, which the ''conservative
thinkers'' criticize.
Put it this way: When you deal with the human equa-
tion in any office or exposition, you are dealing with
phases of Abstract Thought made temporarily concrete.
f:lf Abstract Thought can do, or attain, anything, because
it is everythingr
If this point be reasonably clear, even for the purpose of
this argument, I now wish to treat of my recent state-
ment anent war as a disturbant of cosmic architecture.
For that is the problem of the immediate present, im-
peding man in his cosmic progression.
446
THE THIRTIETH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~ ~ THE THIRTIETH DISCUSSION ~ ~
HE forces that make for war
~~s;..m::&;;Wl.f..J are always selfish in essence.
No matter how much patriotic
fervor may accompany or cloak
the selfishness, my statement
holds. C] Men talk about na-
tional hatreds as being prime
cause for war. I say there is no
such thing as a national hatred.
There may he racial animosities where two races of op-
posing cultures contact one another daily and intrude
obnoxious practices or religious tenets on one another
until, in a manner of speaking, they get on each other's
nerves. But these are merely border~line disturbances.
They would have no permanent effect if they were not
maliciously used to fan the flames of a fabricated detes-
tation that grows national in its scope-a black ideal
that finally obsesses the most inconsequential citizen.
C] War is never national in its scope until it is well ad-
vertised-in other words, promoted. Imagination is
caught and insidiously flagellated. The forces of evil
labor consistently and industriously to carry animosities,
449
real or fancied, into every hamlet and crossroads cot-
tage. They magnify small matters that otherwise would
pass unnoted and unrebuked, maim reputations of rulers
or individuals, subject the rank and file of the offending
nation to arraignment for infamies that may be true or
false, and otherwise steam up a whole people to resent-
ment~~
In the olden days before the printing press, radio, movies,
and general publicity methods offered instruments and
expedients for effecting such dastardly revilements and
aggravations, war had largely to be fought by hired mer-
cenaries or draft soldiers who blindly obeyed the whims
of their princes. To instigate and fight a war today,
however, the common people must be apprised of the
contest in all its fecund details.
It stands to reason that, publicity and education being
what they are today, whole peoples cannot be won over
to engage in a major conflict without grotesque amounts
of manufactured hatred being loosed among them for
premeditated reasons.
Wars would ever fall flat if left to the whim of mankind
in general. A populace may be angered temporarily
by the acts or behaviors of neighboring peoples; but
anger is not hate. It is usually the passion of temper.
that disappears upon the interference of closer and more
personal interests of contact. If a people of any na-
tionality-or any race-were left absolutely to them-
selves, there would never be another war, for the reason
that no two men would ever think alike as to the causes
450
r
or conduct of that conflict and thus it would remain
static in inception.
To prosecute any sort of war, mass action is a necessity.
And as we have discussed at almost the beginning of
the first volume of this work, mass action is never pos-
sible until a million men have the mind of the one-
usually expressed in will of the ..leader.••
War in its inception or execution therefore, depends
purely on leadership, and this leadership in turn depends
upon organization. How then, can present leaders of
the nations contend in logic that they have the ..war
spirit.. of their nationals to take into consideration in
settling major problems? The very passions that make
for war are quickly fatiguing, and no matter how much
a populace may be incensed against the nationals of a
neighboring State, it must be a continual and increasing
program of wrongdoil}g that keeps a whole people at the
pitch required for successful outcome of a long-drawn
conflict ~ ~
No State, as a State, is ever guilty of such an insanity,
and from the very nature of things,. could not be.
People are people wherever you find them.
Individuals of one State are no more wicked than the
individuals of another State.
It takes two to make a quarrel-no matter how old or
banal the statement-and it takes many times two peo-
ple to keep the quarrel boiling when two or more coun-
tries bethink to go to war.
When this happens, therefore-at least between coun-
45 I
tries of millions of inhabitants-it is necessary to keep
up a perpetual embroilment or the war falls flat before it
begins to get in sight of its attainment.
Princes who make war, know this. They know that it
is necessary to hold perpetually and increasingly before
their peoples or their allies the Black Ideals of racial in-
tolerance, magnified indiscretions, indescribable butch-
eries-all the horrid and dastardly panoply of rigor
mortis-surrounding the carnage with the blackest
clouds of fright and fear, so that no seditionist may say
in turn, "All this is fabricated abomination; let us put
an end to it by sane understanding, compromise, or
mutual interchange of ideas that may show us a less
expensive way to emerge from our difficulties.''
Let him who would attempt this last beware, however.
The wolves of greed and the vultures of manufactured
hate, scream at his head and seek to sink their talons
cruelly in his entrails. He is a sheep among rapacious
beasts. He is an enemy to the State.
Who dares to see clearly, think coolly and rationally,
preach peace and sane understandings, when war is the
hysteria of the moment?
War is colossal self-seeking, agitated to the point of
wholesale murder by colossal advertising, and kept go-
ing by fabricated hatred.
It has no justification in any human concept.
Peoples who are inherently peaceable are precisely the
peoples who can be led into the most horrible wars, most
gullibly, because their very peacefulness supplies them
452
with an ideal for keeping that peace, and being most out-
raged when peace is circumvented.
And when that peace is threatened they instinctively
war most desperately, to return to that status where war
is most obnoxious.
This does not mean that there are not justifiable wars.
This does not mean that peace is always desirable. There
are always exceptions, in sanity-especially where there
are high moral issues to be safeguarded, as in England
in the time of Cromwell, or in America when the blot of
slavery could only be erased by the blood of major
carnage~~
Modern warfare, however small in scope, rarely en--
counters the challenge of Spirituality Rampant, none the
less. True, nations always use Spirituality as employe
to gain their ends-with minimum expenditure of men
and materials. But most present-day warfare is fought
out along lines of trade, bluntly speaking, for the ad-
vantages to be gained around the green baize table of
the succeeding peace conference.
Most wars are fought, really, that there may be green
baize tables and peace conferences. Or rather, after the
carnage has exhausted a certain number of men and
materials, the real conflict ensues-and is won or lost-
by and between the post-martial diplomats.
No nation today can utterly vanquish or assimilate an-
other nation. There is no such thing as a complete
martial victory-and there never has been such a thing
since the Napoleonic era. Machines, not men, make
453
war as modernity accepts it. Trade motivates war today,
not spiritual issues, no matter how high spiritual issues
are flaunted as camouflage for bastardies.
War is abhorrent today because it is unnatural and un-
.fair as much to the victor as to the vanquished.
It can no longer succeed permanently in its purpose be-
cause human life has entered upon a new dispensation.
q War is abominable because it is basically abortive
even in its most glamorous presentations. Means of
travel and communication have so far advanced, that
the world is a neighborhood where hoodlums or hired
thugs cannot shoot guns or throw brickbats without
damaging persons who have no part in the quarrel and
cannot be basically interested until their heads are
bashed or their window panes in ruins. Then these in-
nocent bystanders call it a spiritual issue by saying it is
anybody's fight, and participate in the conflict "as a
matter of honor."
All sanity deserts a people that is suffering from the
stimulant of fabricated hatred. It becomes popular to
think as the mass thinks, because fancy has it that the
mass is threatened.
If only an individual were threatened, no one would
spend a farthing on a war, or think it worth the bother to
thrust his head out from a window. Witness the philo-
sophical indifference of the mass to the individual in
every avenue of activity jeopardizing or exterminating
the defenseless individual.
But threaten the mass, and the individual man goes
454
berserk. That is because his sense of collective pro-
tection is similarly threatened. The mass or the herd is
the only armor that he knows in a world where Nature
seems impersonal, because he does not understand what
Nature is or why it operates with such apparent
ruthlessness.
Now Nature is not ruthless. Nature is epitomized be-
neficence. But whether the Spirit-or Conscious
Thought-Stream as delineated-occupies the physical
organism of the Hindu Untouchable or the high-caste
Bait, makes no difference; therefore there is no senti-
mentality about such occupancy.
Nature primarily is the most sentimental force conceiv-
able, else why should she cast violets in the most unlikely
places? But Nature cares nothing for the locality of
the human psyche.
Nature is not fussed up over any specific manifestation
of the human spirit-being all Spirit.
Coming back to herd fright-not being well informed on
such fundamentals-the individual thinks that the ex-
tinction of his body, his race, or his culture, means the
end of his Stream of Consciousness. So, in mad panic,
the poor deluded spirit hurls its entity into the smoking
muzzles of ·cannon to perpetuate, the very thing it
thereby loses ~ ~
Up until very lately, such self-abnegation seemed
beauteous, and indeed in a measure it was beauteous,
since nothing is more beauteous than love externalized
in terms of self-sacrifice. Today, we are confronted by
455
,
,
J a dispensation where the world-neighborhood is such
that the ultimate attainment never can be realized, be-
cause the theater of war is not confined to the area of
actual combat. It is externalized all over the neighbor-
hood and every misdirected missile enrages more and
more inhabitants until eventually they are all fighting
without stopping to realize how the quarrel started or
which is friend and which is foe.
Anyone is foe who confronts another m combative
attitude ~ ~
~~~~~~~ OMING back to the instigations and per-
petuations of conflict however, I have said
that everywhere in the world as at present
constituted, private interests must magnify
national indiscretions into virulent ani-
mosities or the whole movement collapses of its own
weight and absurdity. These private interests may be
political-emanating from the caprices of princes or
dictators-or proponents of some eccentric political
system such as Communism, or they may be commer-
cial, in the sense that bodies of otherwise well-inten-
tioned men see national or personal profit to be gained
by flagellating the public mind and keeping it inflamed
until a psychological moment arrives for a profitable
settlement-profitable, that is, in a sense of seizure.
Or the causes for a war may be strictly racial, where it
is to the cultural or commercial advantage of one race
to get two other races to fighting between themselves
456
and thus killing off thousands and tens of thousands,
that the first motivating race may ultimately step in and
dominate the properties and destinies of the combatants.
CJ[ This last is the titanic castigation which students and
investigators have heaped upon Jews of all countries at
this moment. It has not been in any spleen of intoler-
ance that the proverb has been fashioned among Chris-
tian peoples that "Wars are the Jews' harvests." A
study into the secret histories of governments since the
time of Cromwell, swiftly and malodorously establishes
the fact that conniving and predatory Judaists have been
the inflaming influence instigating most of the major
wars against or among Christian nations.
It has long been an established principle of Jewry-if
Jewry can be said to have any principles-to get two or
more Christian nations set at one anothers' throats, for
every pair of combatants thus killed off means so much
more opportunity for Israelites to acquire the lands and
goods of those whose lives are thus terminated.
The average American, tolerant ofJewry to the point of
gullibility, has a naive ignorance comparable to a babe
in arms, concerning the extent to which World Jewry
can be indicted for most of the wars and social upsets
that have affiicted Christendom since the middle ages.
CJ[ Since the rise of the Brown Shirts in Germany-and
now the ascendancy of the Silvershirts in the United
States-appalling facts are being brought to light, un-
masking this sinister racial influence among peoples
who would otherwise be peaceable.
457
Indications are at last gaining to the light of day that
going on further back than the days of the Cavaliers and
Roundheads, the Jews wanted to get back into England,
from which they had been expelled. So they backed
Cromwell in his so-called Protectorate. Cromwell was
enabled to write his name large in English history, but
no mention has been made generally of how he was
able to accomplish his ends so prodigiously.
In the closing years of the nineteenth century, a horrible
cancer broke out in the flesh of the body' politic in
Franee, producing the Reign of Terror. A profligate
aristocracy is popularly blamed. But no mention is made
of the army of Jewish agents that operated through the
nefarious Jewish-controlled Illuminati to promote the
horror, nor of more Jewish agents who controlled the
People's Assembly and manipulated through the mobs,
nor of the royalty that perished that "the people" might
succeed to their wealth-but which wealth mysteriously
disappeare.d-nor of the fact that throughout all the
butchery and spoliation, scarcely one Jew's property
was jeopardized or damaged.
For a hundred years thereafter, it was a European
proverb that no potentate c~uld make war without first
obtaining the consent of the House of Rothschild.
How many wars the House of Rothschild instigated-
without consulting anyone but themselves-must be left
to conjecture. Already the Nazis have brought to light
the appalling certainty that it was not the stolid German
people who arose and gave battle to the Allies in the
458
late world war. It was a Jewish oligarchy in command
of the German people, whom all the world fought
through four nightmare years. And when finally the
United States was manipulated to wade into the
shambles, one great American Jew was absolute dictator
of 246 out of 249 basic war industries and has been
shown to have exercised a power over this embattled
country greater than its President's.
Of all the millionaires who emerged from the war with
swollen fortunes in New Yo:i;-k, sevent~five percent
have been shown to be Jews.
On the taking over of Russia by the Jews, and the ex-
termination of White Russians as a people, we need
expend no comment.
Now our entire American Administration is in the hands
of this same predatory breed. They and their satraps
have gained ascendancy over the press, over the radio,
over the screen-all agencies for hate fabrication, and
for the manufacture of proper mass-murder sentiment
when the moment comes that it is advantageous to em-
broil our country in a fresh conflict to divert attention
from themselves and their preponderance in all of our
cherished Christian institutions.
Make no mistake about this. I neither criticize nor in-
dict honest men with honest property to be· protected,
who see themselves vulnerable in a world of alarms and
recognize in a highly organized armament a protective
instrument against inroads of spoliation. I speak of a
vast oligarchy of deliberate and criminal ..self-seekers;
459
w
J_
;~ '
~/
~ ..·
t~,·
~·
r
r~i
~···
r
~
~.•.·
.
:
~ .~
<~;~·:~
.
~f~.·.···.·.'.
h:
j!' .
,,.
lt
...
_::'.~~)-·
·.
without ethics or conscience, who plot assiduously to
keep the world in foment, and lie awake nights that
they may miss no opportunity to further ends as inter-
national conspirators bent on making peaceful peoples
the .butt of their malfeasance.
I know that the real plotters in this nation are not neces-
sarily its feather-headed governors or statesmen at
helms of government. They are deeper and more
subtle in their maneuvers. They have agencies at their
hand diabolical of concept, working to emasculate
America as a great military and economic power, that
at the proper time Russia-their Red Vassal-equipped
with their gold and officered by their satraps, may by the
very nature of soviet resources, dictate the political
policies of the world with no one of sufficient power to
say them nay.
Our beloved Prince of Peace-whom they despise-has
said that mankind shall beat its plowshares out of spears
and its pruning-hooks from metals of world carnage. It
was no mere figure of speech that He used.
The great war demonstrated in its aftermath that the
human memory is poignantly short. It remembers only
those offices of war that impinge upon its instincts. It
forgets those tenets and experiences which impinge on
spiritual concepts. This is because human spirit is slow,
slow-being individualistic with every man-whereas
instincts are the externalizations of mass psychologies.
fJf Let us not go into that; it is trite, and immaterial.
The fact remains that Man Forgets. He longs in his
460
heart for peace, but he fears mass reaction in indi~tment
of the cowardice of his spirit, more than he fears the
catastrophes of conflict.
He is a child in his perceptions and his acknowledg-
ments. Therefore he is the easy prey of malign in-
fluences that would butcher him to fat their purses or
gain control in councils of diplomacy.
Man knows not of himself how to thwart those malign
influences and agencies. He is as sheep, with wolves
running nightly in the fold or biding their time to leap
out of ambush. This book will come into the hands of
many of those wolves. They will recognize themselves.
To them I say-
An equal conspiracy exists which they dream not of as
yet, to fell them in their tracks. Forces are gradually
mounting against them so stupendous as to make their
own strategies the silly intrigues of gibbering imbeciles,
due for quick incarceration as their mischiefs are per-
ceived ~ ±.!'
The American people are a long time arousing into ac-
tion. The United States is by no means Russia. And
in every crisis that has ever confronted America, her
populace-when sufficiently outraged-has shown itself
as ruthlessness incarnate.
461
~f;~~iP~ ANKIND is not always to be the hapless
prey of those insolent wolves who imagine
the earth to be their own stalking ground.
Neither is man to be altogether his own
protector as he has always looked upon
himself in generations past. Mankind has hurled brick-
bats at wolves before and crushed their skulls or driven
them into hiding. Now the time arrives when those
packs must be exterminated. And the forces gathering
for the slaughter are terrific beyond all concept.
I make these statements guardedly. I have no wish to
be considered a fanatic or alarmist, and I submit my per-
sonal career to date as evidence of the fact that I am
feared for my knowledge and my accurate perceptions.
But I have had obvious certainties divulged to me which
impel me to write with a true pen of prophecy.
Wars, I say, are always deliberately manufactured in
this day of modern armament and "rules of carnage"
. . . they are created and promoted by a small, well-
organized minority with specific objectives to achieve.
So autocratic is the control of the minority over the
agencies of war promotion-political governments as
at present constituted, the press, the screen, the radio-
that conflicts may be turned on, or turned off, without
the man-in-the-street's having the faintest inkling of the
diableries that are jeopardizing him and making him the
prey of the most nefarious interests.
But before we proceed to touch briefly on counter-
agencies for cooping such iniquities, we should record a
462
word about another generalized cause of conflict in the
modern world-the Freedom of the Seas.
The moment that the term International Law is called
up, the average person envisions maritime rules and
regulations expanding or circumscribing the planet's
public waterways. Let us discourse for a few pages on
this much-mooted question, the Freedom of the Seas.
In any forthcoming permanent foreign policy for the
United States under the Silvershirts, Freedom of the Seas
must be known for what it is.
463
THE THIRTY~FIRST DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
THE THIRTY*FIRST DISCUSSION
NTERNATIONAL law, I say
~.-C"'arii;"':l again, from time immemorial
has been interpreted as, or con-
cerned with, deportment of na-
tions in their sea relationships,
more than with any other factor
affecting their interests. Inter*
national law, to some people,
goes no further than the rights
and privileges of the different nationals on the highways
of the oceans and their estuaries. In fact, international
law, from the academic viewpoint, represents very little
to the average citizen beyond the rights and prerogatives
of the various countries in their oceanic deployments.
That is to say, nations seem to invoke more interna-
tional jurisprudence in their sea activities than in their
land activities, until the terms International Law and
Freedom of the Seas have almost become interchange-
able~~
Now Freedom of the Seas, or freedom on the seas, is
again a misleading term. Properly speaking there is no
such thing. Freedom of the seas is a misnomer. What
467
really is meant is, "freedom of rights and action on the
common vantage ground of oceanic waterways," and
that is something that will never come about, any more
than we can have freedom of rights and action in the
individual case on land. Freedom on the seas in the
academic sense is anarchy on the seas. Having seen the
root meaning of anarchy in our discourse on Constitu-
tional Law, I think that this point requires small
illumination ~ ~
Given a group of nations that must resort to ships to
sustain economic life, true freedom of the seas would
permit of any sort of naval or marine activity that a
nation might choose to mix in to enhance its fortunes
. .
In war or In commerce.
There.has never been complete freedom of the seas and
I submit there never can be. There is really less freedom
on the seas than there is upon the land, because the
oceans cannot be parceled out among races, states or
nationals as the land is parceled out.
The seas are common property, in exactly the measure
and for exactly the reasons that they are subservient to
more fixed rules for navigation and employment than
could possibly be the case with well-surveyed real estate.
In the exact ratio that you must have armament, you
must have restriction. In the exact ratio that you have
commercial activity, you must have protection. In the
ratio of armament to protection, you have Law-or you
should have law. And yet this last is not always the
case~·~
468
Five major nations have recently been conferring among
themselves, not so much to insure or enhance Freedom
of the Seas as to reach a common understanding as to
which among the five shall dictate to the others. That
is a pretty cloak for ugly truth.
There has been nothing altruistic about such conferring,
excepting that sincere altruism may motivate many
eminent statesmen in their private views as to the wel-
fare of all peoples in the years ahead.
Their actual gestures, however, have been basically
economic~~
America does not know why she wants freedom on the
seas. She has no reason to demand it by force, even of
Great Britain. The greatest disturbant to the peace of
the world just now is a Continental country with no navy
to speak of, wholly locked in by a ring of naval foes or
hostile natural conditions, that will not spread havoc
among the nations by naval instrumentalities, and which
will require a considerable time yet to seriously worry
the world's naval chancellories.
America is a proud, adolescent, expanding country, with
vast trade interests abroad. In the exact ratio that those
trade interests expand and multiply, she feels that she
will need the adequate force-protection of her own gov-
ernment. This may or may not be so. But one thing
is certain: She has no desire to arrive at the time or the
pass where any other nation may circumscribe her ac-
tions-only another phase of the mistaken Might-makes-
Right policy.
469
i .
·-1
:
i
.-1
,:
: .
I have no bone to pick with the United States for this
viewpoint in world affairs. Doubtless were I President
of the United States, I would encourage it-not because
I believe in force to accomplish and achieve any na-
tionalistic aims, but because I would realize that world
psychology at present is such that the strongest nation
politically and diplomatically is the one that has the
greatest chance to exert its force but does not.
This is a philosophical principle more than a practical
truism, and yet the soundest principle that any nation
can adopt~~
It is never the possession of force that castigates a na-:
tion, so much as the purposes to which such force is put.
t]' America has no need of a great naval policy to protect
her world holdings for, essentially, she is not a maritime
power. But she does need a strong naval policy to en-
hance her efforts to either bring about national, or inter-
national, disarmament or become a dominating force in
the erection of a Pan-Aryan political structure that shall
really make wars imbecile and archaic.
This is not a paradox in any sense or degree, since the
strong man and the beloved man, is not the weakling
who rants philosophically but the one who uses his great
strength gently and nobly-else why is strength be-
stowed on him at all~
Now then,· five great nations have been trying to settle
between themselves which among them shall attain or
retain most effective jurisdiction over the common prop-
erty. If one were strong enough to command superior
470
strength over all the others, of course there would be no
conferring. The strong one would simply boss the seas,
and in the language of our day, tell the others, each and
all of them, where to "head in." And they would head-in
with painful alacrity and no nonsense about it. But no
one of them is strong enough in ships, ordnance, or
money, to fill such much-envied role in the .present, so
they gather about the conference table-much as we
· have seen diplomats gathering about the peace table-
and fight a world sea-fight on paper, with bluff for guns
and threats of greater building-programs for fleets and
aircraft ~ ~
Why the continual necessity for this sort of thing? Let
us go back to the American Constitutional period and
John Marshall.
The time came shortly after the invention of the steam-
boat when owners of vessels chartered under the various
State governments found themselves intruding on what.
the others were pleased to call their rights. They were
compelled by various Supreme Court rulings, handed
down by Marshall, to consider the waters on which they
voyaged-particularly interstate waterways-as the
common property of all the States, and for the use of all
the nationals under the Federal government.
In other words, Federal interests-meaning all of the
people thereunder residing-took precedence over the
interests of the limited groups, that in the larger measure
those of the limited groups as well niight receive the
greater benefit ~ .±.•
471
The principle is so simple as scarcely to be worthy of
mention, but sometimes it seems as though the simpler
the principle, the greater stumbling-block it is for mighty
nations in their contacts.
America has always sponsored the philosophy ,that the
seas are the common vantage-ground for all the na-
tionals having business upon them. She still adheres to
that philosophy. But a condition has arisen since the
world war making it necessary to readjust the relation-
ships existent over generations. This readjustment is
termed Disarmament, and it takes the comical aspect of
most of the world's great nations making more warships
in order that they may have less.
Great Britain, whose people have always prided them-
selves on ruling the seas, finds herself in the uncom-
fortable position of the small boy caught in a neigh-
bor's apple tree, not knowing whether to come down and
be punished, or stay up till he falls from the tree in
fatigue~~
These great maritime powers give it out that their par-
ticipation in disarmament is humanitarian as well as
economic. Mayhap they declare it sincerdy in cases of
individual statesmen. But do they discern with ac-
curacy what is moving them?
The point raised is this: The nations realize that as
commerce increases and world affairs grow more com-
plex, there is need for greater law and order on the
highways of the world than ever before 'in history.
From so.mewhere must come the force that makes law
472
vital under the provisions hereinbefore laid down. Law
must have the resources and expedients for enforcement
behind it, or it is only philosophical prescription for
human conduct, not necessarily to be followed. From
whence is to come that force~ For it must be forthcom-
ing, and quickly.
For the past hundred years Britain has supplied it. With
the stamping out of privateering and piracy, some nation
had to preserve order on the high seas. Britain grandi-
osely volunteered-by her behavior if not by precept-
to·stand the expense of this world police force under the
guise of economic necessity of protecting far far-flung
colonies and interests. But to the student of world
affairs it was all a bit pathetic. The nations smugly al-
lowed Britain to do so, since it cost them nothing but
assent. After all, the areas policed were not their own
-·-politically speaking-and very lonely and wet on
principle. Thus no matter what sort of monkey-busi-
ness was "on the make., in any part of the world, or
between what nationals, it required only the appearance
of a British dreadnaught to make the recalcitrants look
to their ethics.
Now it is a political tenet, that any people will allow a
ruler to rule so long as he gives them peace in their
internal affairs and does not unduly annoy them or inter-
fere with their pursuits. In other words, people will let
Power tax them if it gives them peace-which is
Rosseau's Social Contract underlying major sovereignty.
CJf It is only when sovereignty of the seas is exploited by
473
•
1:
'!
n
,..--t --
i lv
'I'
'
'.<:
'
--~:F
one interest, or institution, to its own advantage without
exercising any service in return, that the doctrine of
Freedom of the Seas finds a champion and becomes a
challenge to Command of the Seas.
People forget all pride, vanitay, and animus, in the sim-
ple benefit of personal protection; and the same is true of
nations. They may try to keep up a show of personal
independence, but it will be more or less of a childish
strutting in the garments of its elders.
So it was with other nations of the earth when Britain
obligingly undertook to do the thing that all nations
should long before have essayed to do together. Now
the time has come, whether Britain admits it consciously
or not, when she is forced to see that the effects are
breaking her back financially-if they have not broken it
already-and the thing happening at present seems to
be, that she either wants to shift the burden where it has
rightfully belonged, or gain .the assent of all other na-
tions to limit their naval armaments so that this gra-
tuitous service to the rest of the world will not be so
expensive ~ ~
The expansion and complexity of the affairs of other
nations, especially America and Japan, presents a di-
lemma with which Britain cannot progressively cope.
fJI Where does this put America?
474
HE United States is no longer a strong
nation acquiring more strength that it may
realize, as a strong man, gently, so much
as it is-like a half-blind and hapless
Samson-being led to arid fro by the
Jewish Delilah of powerful commercial and financial in-
terests that may want certain chestnuts pulled from the
fire in case Japan seriously menaces or stirs up their
precocious darling-Soviet Russia.
These interests recognize that their protege, Soviet
Russia, has no navy, cannot construct one in time to be
of service, and possesses no adequate ports from which
one might operate efficiently. Great Britain, as an ally,
is not what they desire, since she has her own maritime
tradition to preserve, and if she were called into a war
and fought Russia's sea fight successfully, the glory
would be hers and Russia would not share it. Further-
more, history has shown that always the acquisition of
such an ally means the. acquisition of a master, since
great States rarely withdraw when they have fought the
battles of weaker States, and leave the latter to their
own devices ~ ·~
They stay and rule.
No, it is the American Navy that is the logical naval unit
to fight Red Russia's battles in case Japan cannot be
securely bolshevized and persists in driving her wedge
between Jewish Moscow and chaotic China.
There are those among us who have every evidence that
this was the real motivation for the international Jewish
475
~-
\\-~-
diplomats of the two countries' strong-arming Russian
recognition upon the American people. This was the real
issue at stake when Litvinoff-alias Wallach, alias
Finkelstein--came to America and engineered .so
adroitly in Washington for the recognition of the Soviets.
His various visitations at the nation's capital aside from
the White House-although of course not without
White House consent-and the essence of those con-
versations with known congressional authorities, have
long since let the mischievous pussy out of the mys-
terious cloth receptacle for those truly enlightened in
Jewish diableries. So it is either disarmament in order
that Japan may be circumscribed in the menace which
she constitutes to Russia, or an American Navy par ex-
cellence and second to none, that it may be maneuvered
into Russian-Jewish service if Japan turns out re-
fractory ~ J:.!'
The man in the street who pays the taxes for such over-
seas chicanery; hears vaguely of great congressional ap-
propriations for the naval and flying services, sees blood-
stirring movies of fleet maneuvers, listens to interna-
tional ward-heeler adjurations across the radio, and
agrees that "protection" against small but ambitious
Japan is a very sound policy indeed. And British di-
plomacy, realizing all this-realizing also that Great
Britain can no longer continue to police.the seven seas
for the nations gratuitously-has a skull-full of head-
aches. She must either give up the latter program and
perhaps lose · face with Oriental nations, attending
476
strictly to her business of protecting her nationals solely
-·which likewise means a diminution of her prestige,
at least philosophically-or persuade all nations to sink
their gunboats, at least to policing .minimum. But
Japan, knowing exactly what is going on behind the
scenes, between the Jewish oligarchy in Moscow and the
Jewish oligarchy in Washington, adroitly ignores Britain
in this stramash and minds her own business-which
happens to be increasing her naval forces so that she
will be in a position to blockade Jewish Russia on the
one hand, when the time arrives, and successfully con-
front Jewish America on the high seas in the greatest
naval battle of modern times, south of Alaska, some-
where in the vicinity of the Aleutian Islands.
Policing of the seas thus becomes a secondary and philo-
sophical issue while such devil's brew is stewing. Of
course, if all races were enjoying the fruits of protection
from piracy alone, they ought to pay equally for such
protection by their naval contributions therefor, but not
in the sense of any one nation's either benefiting or beg-
garing itself merely to maintain a traditional prestige.
(jf No one in the capitals of the world is worrying over
that ethical nicety in the present, however.
Of course it is logical, and everywhere recognized, that
England's real purpose in "ruling the seas" has been
not only police power in time of peace but protection of
her territories in time of war. The theory is grand-as
a theory-and undoubtedly makes the individual Briton
feel more comfortable when he lies down to sleep on his
477
snug little isle that has long since lost its identity as
island. ,Matters have reached a point, however, where
speculation sustains him more than cold fact. The late
war showed conclusively the fallacy of the Briton's point
of view. For all of her vaunted supremacy on the wave,
had the United States stayed out of the world war six
months longer, and not augmented the British Navy and
the British merchant marine with 1its own, England
might have been so soundly thrashed that the prospect
and its ramifications are not pleasant to contemplate ~
fJf A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
A nation is only as strong as it discloses itself in crisis.
~A navy is only as powerful as it shows itself invin-
cible in practical operation in face of a foe.
British naval strength proved to be a fallacy and a hoax
on Britain's people, just as today it is a terrific burden of
inexorable expense-which is why I say that the average
Englishman's sense of security in his bed at night is little
more than tragic speculation.
The United States is rapidly coming to a point where she
likewise is being forced out into a similar program of
colossal blundering under her Jewish masters. Screen
and radio agitation, and press and congressional aug-
mentation, are all at work-full blast-to produce mass
approval in the public subconsciousness, of this Soviet
program having the smashing of Japan at heart.
That these marplots may succeed before they are un-
masked-or rather, that it may require success in their
maneuverings, to unmask them-is not for present com-
478
ment. Unmasked they will be, in natural denouement
of event. Pray tell me, then what~
That the seas must ultimately be adequately policed, no
statesman dares deny. Who then is to do it, and under
what auspices? And will it be done by marine craft or
aircraft? ~ ~
The very drawing-together of the world, geographically,
by increasingly modernized means of travel, automati-
cally contracts the world problem again into the national
Constitutional problem. Instead of thirteen American
colonies, all suspicious of one another and fighting for
place and power under federalized government, we are
thirteen major world colonies-called nations-all sus-
picious of one another and fighting for place and power
under a speculative federalization by the Upward Trend
of Things~~
ls history to repeat itself in this regard? Or rather, was
the American Union first postulated by the God of
Things as a living witness and pattern for the ultimate
solution of international discomfitures of tenor similar
to the colonies?
Closing our eyes to the Trend will get us nowhere.
When the Jewish International Conspiracy is fully un-
masked, and its principals pilloried before an outraged
Christendom, how are we going about the construction
of a more civilized and enduring stability in interna-
tional relationships.
We who are called to be actors in the drama now open--
ing must have our answer ready.
479
Personally, I believe the solution to lie-at least the
first step toward such solution-in the pan-Aryan fed-
eralization of the earth's major nations on specific
premises and for definite objectives as shall admit of
neither misinterpretation nor subversion throughout the
next hundred years.
Can it be actualized in practical statesmen, all the
worldly factors being what they are? Or would we be
dealing in theoretical presumptions?
480
THE THIRTY~SECOND DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN - LAW
~ THE THIRTY-SECOND DISCUSSION z.,.
'Y!ilir.:~~N this work, to the present you
4 have read a compendium of as-
severations, analyses, preach-
ments and predictions. Some
of these may have seemed quite
ordinary as to premise; others,
I hope, will have appealed to
the erudite as matters of origi-
nality worthy of cogitation. I
now leave the various questions and answers pro-
pounded, and seek an interpretation of them in practical
application to a world which needs their balsams sorely,
t] Let us take the international situation as it exists at
present, examine it carefully, and see if we can predicate
upon it a more equitable arrangement, conceived in true
liberty and dedicated to the proposition that men are
men and not puppets of Circumstance.
At the close of the world war, President Wilson jour-
neyed to Paris with a plan for a League of Nations that
should constructively organize internationality in its last
expedient sense. His idea was to gather the representa-
tives of the warring nations about the council table and
483
r.•
"'
'
,'4
i
f
&
~ '
~1··•...· /.P.···
,,
~- . _,__
t
impress upon them the necessity for some sort of world
body which should render forever impossible a repetition
of the carnage which had come to a welcome close. This
was admirable on his part-as a philosophic altruism-
and he doubtless worked under the mentorship of
spiritual forces vaster than he dreamed of. I like to
believe that he has been suitably rewarded even for as
much as he was able to achieve. But those great
spiritual forces had greater plans in view.
It was necessary at the time for the League of Nations
as we have come to know it, to take form and shape, not
to accomplish any parliament of man just then, but to
show that such a parliament is both practical and work-
able if it be properly constructed-which the League of
Nations never has been and hence remains impotent.
CJf Putting it in another way, Wilson did certain ground-
work to propel the human race into thinking interna-
tionally, and there his office ended.
Few were aware at the time, that the League of Nations
got as far as it did because it seemed to hold the germ of
a world state for the more proper and efficient juris-
diction of Jewry over the Gentile Christendom. When
the Jews overplayed their hand-as they always do over-
play their hands-the pussy was out of the cloth re-
ceptacle again, and the Unted States commendably beg-
ged to be excused.
The time will come, and not so far distant as the unen-
lightened now assume, when mankind will be given into
such a parliament, permanently, of its own volition ~
484
f.Jf What Wilson did, was to show humanity that getting
together politically is not impossible if the provocation
be sufficiently great to make the achievement attractive
and profitable.
The time for the real Parliament of Man has not yet ar-
rived, although fast approaching due to developments
in the Orient; and this is as it should be, for one big
reason:
The Parliament of Man must be assembled in the face of
a major social catastrophe, or major social menace, and
not as its aftermath! Furthermore, to be permanent and
efficient-it cannot partake of the nature of an inter-
nation alliance, nor yet of a Jewish synagogue. Let us
elaborate on the first. The second needs no expounding.
~~~m~ VEN as the English Parliament was origi-
nally set up to protect the common people
against the arrogance, depredations and
extortions of selfish, stupid and religiously-
fanatical princes-and peoples of other
lands dominated by the Popes-with the threats of
damage and danger always hanging over them in the
form of recurrences of such arrogances, depredations,
and extortions, so the Great World Parliament must
come about in the face of some catastrophe so mammoth
that a relaxation of political vigilance for even a year,
month, week or a day, would result in concrete and
permanent injury to the lives of a majority of the sen-
sible peoples of the earth, meaning them either as indi-
485
.r
(
viduals or closely integrated groups .~ ~ ~ ~
This means that the time is upon us in this generation,
when ordinary mortals will be confronted by supreme
dilemmas. Forces may be loosed by racial megalo-
maniacs, to arouse whole continents and hemispheres of
peoples to pit themselves against whole continents or
hemispheres of peoples-speaking culturally. Russia
under her Jewish tyrants is moving into Asia and be-
coming more and more an oriental power. The very
nature and essence of her political composition are
Demagoguery of the worst depravity. Her national life
in this generation, granted she has any, is one of sodden
awakening to a sense of arrested development, although
under the Jews she has the insolence and temerity to
call this Progress and insist that the rest of the world's
nations shall embrace her imbecilities.
This awakening. or rather this .perception, mistaken and
decadent though it may be, is being echoed in the racial
dynamics of two or three other races, also indigenous to
Asia, that are demonstrating volcanic fecundities at
present~~
We have here the aspects-and most of the social in-
gredients-of an impasse. One hemisphere, epitomiz-
ing a sort of decadent culture, is bringing itself up
militantly against another hemisphere with an adoles-
cent culture. The very essences of both are preponder-
ant with tremendous misinterpretations-which of
course the Jews will capitalize to· their expedient en-
hancements ·~ ~
486
It must be to offset the constant threat of serious imposi-
tions, one by the other, that I believe the enduring Par-
liament of Man must he erected. But again I say, it
cannot be a parliament that is a glorified alliance.
That is exactly where the erstwhile League of Nations
made its worst blunder.
The perfect international political alliance-perfect in
a sense of stability and perJ;Uanence-never has been set
up and never can be set up, and this for the reason that
alliances always partake of principalities and powers
that contain the seeds of their own disintegration.
An alliance is ever an agreement-and a passing agree-
ment, as expediency of the military or economic caste
dictates-between princes of a sort, to render mutual aid
in the face of calamity that threatens one or all as a
result of their own ambitions, legitimate or illegitimate.
C]J It partakes of principalities and power of which the
common man making up the real entourage of a nation
or a people can have small knowledge, by the very na-
ture of its composition. He is actually the bagatelle of
martyrs in the political sense, and can never be anything
else, because his thinking cannot-certainly does not-
encompass the intricacies of the. factors involved.
Neither can he deal mentally in the mathematical incal-
culahles which world problems and racial maneuverings
involve~~
The average man thinks neither in States nor in na-
tional problems as yet; first, because he has been ma-:
liciously trained away from such considerings, and,
487
-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii_ _ _ _ _ _ _..............................................~----~~~~~-~-~ __ _.
r
second. because he is too busy making his own living to
concern himself overmuch in the living of the masses-
which is why he is average.
of powers whose representatives were to sit more or less
Wilson's League of Nations was exactly that, a chamber
permanently and consider problems that had never be-
fore been propounded to the various countries in as-
sembly. Certain appointed representatives from the
countries who became members, were supposed to
gather about a perpetual peace table, and instead of
squabbling for a few weeks or months, grabbing what
they could grab and then going home, they were sup-
posed to squabble the calendar around and make a per-
manent employment of grabbing.
In other words, the League of Nations in session was a
chamber of delegates or minor ambassadors, given no
powers in themselves, but forming, together, a body of
deputies who could perpetually watch one another and
try to figure out what each one was after.
This was not government.
It was not federation.
It was political espionage of a camouflaged order.
Not a single attendant could make a move or propose
a resolution without consulting his government, and
when he spoke it was merely as a mouthpiece for his
government. Not even the silica of common menace
was present, to bring their workings into common reso-
lution. A hodge-podge of nationalities had merely come
together, hoping thereby to perform some extraordinary
488
-------~-~.----~---------·------~-~----·--------
feats of political magic, and giving a likely forum for
the airing of grievances.
True, it was only a first gesture, a vague and groping
move toward consideration of antagonisms and inter-
racial abuses that must some day find flower in a genuine
parliament. And behind it was ever the malodorous
Jew, hoping to see something crystallize that· would
further strengthen Judah's clutch on organized
Christendom ~ ~
But political organizations, even international political
organizations, that hope to endure and function effi-
ciently, are not put together so.
The League of Nations, from its very first session, was
wrong in its construction. And I can best expound what
I mean by describing the construction of a true Parlia-
ment of Man that will endure and effect those achieve-
ments worthy of the ideals that will bring it into being.
CJf .Before I do so, however, I want to lay down the
premise that I do not believe any such parliament can
be instigated wholesale-that is to say, that all the na-
tions of the earth, with their varied and ofttimes an-
tagonistic cultures and feuds, can be brought together en
masse and made to conform to orderly procedures.
Infantile internationality, like infantile humanity, must
creep before it walks, and walk before it runs. To be at
all successful in its operations from the start, any gesture
toward int~rnationality of integrity must not attempt to
cover too much territory or take in too many diverse
elements. Furthermore, those elements which go to
489
. 'y
'
I.
~ -..•
make it up, in the infancy and childhood of the move-
ment, should be as consanguinous as possible, with as
nearly a common culture as connivable and with a gen-
eralized knowledge of each others' speech.
This should maintain until certain precedents are estab-
lished for the conduct of a larger and more complex
body and in order that initial antagonisms, animosities
·and racial aggravations might be held to a minimum.
«Jr Commonsense would indicate that it would be far
more preferable to have an embryonic Parliament of
Man made up of, say, three great nations, each of whom
understood the others' psychologies and something of
their culture, who traveled along the same avenues of
reasoning to arrive at conclusions, and whose conclu-
sions from such thinking were rational within the psy-
chologies of all; than to have a parliament comprising
a bedlam of statesmen- from every race merely to have
those races represented in entirety. Such numbers
would mean that no one representative could make
himself heard; thus there would be constant turmoil
of disgruntlement because each was ineffective, bring-
ing a thousand discordant factors in with racial per-
sonalities and doing more mischief than no parliament
at all, because its very size would render it unwieldy.
fJI After all, the main business of such a parliament will
be to put an end to war, and to so legislate on lesser
matters that good is accomplished without offense being
given to any nation in the face of its sovereignty.
But even with such precautions either taken or recom-
490
mended, the structure of such a body should be far, far
different from anything that has been proposed to date
in inter-statehood.
~&~~~~ ITHERTO we have been introduced to an
international war-preventing, super-po-
litical structure in terms of ·a super-State,
made up of the representatives of the
various governments involved as they may
be commissioned so to act, and dispatched at executive
or legislative decree to take their places in the interna-
tional lists and gain such voice for their countries as
theycan ~ ~
We are introduced further to the hypothesis of such a
super-State's being empowered with the direction of
colossal ordnance to enforce its findings, to compel the
smaller and weaker adherents to submit as graciously
as possible to its fiats, to ignore the proud sovereignty of
peoples as peoples, and to attempt to legislate for all
humanity as the altruisms or animosities of the larger
and stronger members might decide.
Righteous goose pimples break out upon the flesh of
patriotic Americans when they envision so powerful a
State as Great Britain thereby telling their government
what its trade routes may be, what ships it may sail and
where it may sail them, what imposts, levies, and tariffs
it shall set, how many men it shall have in its standing
army and how it shall equip them.
The Englishman, the German, the Frenchman, all have
491
similar seizures at such probabilities-each sensing the
loss of racial integrities, which again are but synonyms
for cosmic designations.
All of it is predicated upon the assumption that such
political maneuverings shall be fashioned and authorized
on the impractical League of Nations principle, where
again Might makes Right and the smaller bow to the
fiats of the strongest.
The real Parliament of Man toward which all ratiom~l
peoples are working, and which will come in time if
present trends continue, will derogate and dismiss all
these archaic and trouble-breeding notions. And here
will be the secret: It will be a parliament of Mankind,
not of delegates of sovereignties.
Do you grasp what this means in all its fraught fe-
cundities? ~ ~
Why has no one envisioned the true Parliament of Man
in the abject terms of the man in the street?
That is to say, why has it never occurred to anyone-
much less to governments themselves-to speculate on
the possibilities of an international body that is set up
and sustained by the average citizens of the countries
involved, exactly as the federal government of the
United States is set up and sustained by the average
citizens of the several American States, without the
slightest infringements of States' Rights to the latter and
with no menace to the sovereignty of the federal struc-
ture in that it derives its just powers from the consent
of the governed?
492
Conjectured in popular terms, we hear the objection
voiced that "no one wants to see the flag of any super-
government flying above the Grand Old Stars and
Stripes," and in the jingoism thus propounded we go far
afield from the model Parliament of Man buttressed
upon the political notions and procedures of the already
tried-and-proven United States Government. I say
Amen to the sentiment myself. But in the larger sense
I ask why this implication of inferior sovereignty needs
to come to fruit at all. Put it in this way-
The citizen of Dodge City, Kansas, is first of all a com-
ponent unit in the municipal government of Dodge City
as the smallest political entity we have in America today.
But the citizen of Dodge City, Kansas, by no means
stops there in his citizenship, nor in his membership in
other political bodies quite as potent to his individual and
collective welfare. He is next a component of the great
State of Kansas. He pays State taxes for State purposes
and periodically foregathers with his fellow citizens to
elect a State Governor and State Congress. But again
he does not stop there.
Over and above the foregoing two citizenships, he is also
a component unit in the United States of America. In-
dependently of his tax paying and voting as a resident
of Dodge City, independently of his tax paying and vot-
ing as a resident of the State of Kansas, and certainly
in no case interfering with either' he is lastly a com-
ponent unit of his national government; he likewise
pays his Federal taxes and once in four years he gathers
493
,.,..,.....•
{-
r-
at the polls with his fellows and declares who shall run
the country as a nation among nations.
He sees nothing competitive, inharmonious, or incon-
gruous, in being three separate and distinct citizens in
his political practices in the same time and person.
I say to him, "Very well, then, what is there especially
competitive, inharmonious, or incongruous, in making
one further representation and also becoming a com-
ponent unit in an Aryan Federation that shall decide on
great measures between the nations, as the dignitaries
of the Federal government now decide on great meas-
ures between the several States?"
Only in the conjectured Federation-and forming it
quite as consistently and efficiently-there must be Ger-
mans from Germany instead of from Hoboken, and
Englishmen from Great Britain instead of from Massa-
chusetts-in other words, the true Parliament of Man
must be representative of the individual citizens of all
the international States involved, with quite the same
integrity that we now include the various nationalities
residing in America as parts of the American States
themselves. But the structure should not stop there.
Such a structure cannot be "super" anything. It must
be a separate and distinct entity, coexistent and co-
funetioning with all the other political entities of which
the individual is a member, and brought into existence
and preserved to accomplish definite aims and objectives
which the individual nations of themselves could never
pronounce ~ ~
494
It must have its own Constitution, specifically drawn
and specifically operating, to go beyond the stipulations
of which, shall render such acts quite as invalid as are
unconstitutional procedures attempted by the American
States or groups or individuals within them today.
It must concern itself in, and traffic in, only those meas-
ures which nations singly cannot adjudicate without
the alternative recourse to war. But more than all else,
it must derive its just powers from the consent of the
governed, meaning definitely that from first to last, in
every office and every indenture of an office, it must be
composed and controlled of and by the average people,
the ordinary voters, of the countries comprising it.
It should have a Senate made up of delegates chosen by
member governments to represent them as such. It
should have a House of Representatives chosen by the
individual nationals of the member countries according
to population. It should have powers of taxation to
raise funds for its own purposes, but they should be
levied on the citizen, not upon governments composing
it. It should have its own world police force-not in a
single instance derived from the ordnance of any of the
member nationals but extraneous to it.
Let the nations of the world build and retain their
navies; they would become analogous to the National
Guards of the several American States, ready for first
summons as national emergency might dictate, yet ever
officered by State officials, and augmentative of the Fed-
eration's forces as expediency or emergency might
49.5
T -
'
declare. It should have its own world Capital in some
neutral location like the Azores, a world-renowned Mec-
ca owned and supported by ..world nationals.,.
· It should, in short, be the Republic of the Nations!
A philosopher's dream? . Does anyone in his senses dare .
. to say that if the most forward-looking citizens of the
United States, Great Britain, and Germany, effected
such positive internationality on the lines set down, that
there could ever be another major conflict between these
great States, or that massing their.united strengths and
their resources-and supported by the individual citi-
.zens of the States involved-they_ would not .be in a
position to stop· any conflict in any other part of the
world before it was begun?
Need loss of sovereignty be involved in the completion
of such a structure?
Need racial culture in any instance he jeopardized?
If the individual citizens of the United States, Canada,
Australia, England, Scotland, Ireland, and Germany,
were the ultimate political components of such a Feder-
ation, who would be less proud to be a citizen of it, or
necessarily hold it in higher esteem, than the resident of
Dodge City now holds his Federal government because
he is a native of Kansas, or holds his State government
because he is amenable to the ordinances passed by the
chairman of his home municipality?
Could Englishmen not be Englishmen under such a
political structure, insofar as their culture and racial in-
tegrity were concerned? Could Germans not be Ger-
496
mans} Yet project the common citizens of each, into
an arrangement whereby they were coexistently a citi-
zenry of such Republic of the Nations, and an interest
in the matters of internationality would automatically
be created that would inevitably sweep the earth.
Is it not reasonable to suppose, too, that as time went
on, and the beneficent workings of such a Republic be-
came apparent to other races, that they would seek re-
spectful and amenable entrance to such a structure quite
as avidly as the newly established American territories
sought admission to the Union after the first Thirteen
Colonies had demonstrated the benefits of federaliza-
tioni ~ ~
Contrast the possibilities of such a structure, with the
loose, wrangling, opinionated, taciturn, cantankerous
League of Nations as at present constituted, made up of
delegates from sovereign forums, given to blasphemies
of political conduct and setting up an impossible status
quo for those who follow after to preserve.
Nations-in-Law indeed I .
497
if --
( ' '
~~~~rJ T the present time we are denizens of a
world that is but partially organized,
politically. We in America are quite will-
ing to shout from the housetops that our
form and system of government are the
best upon the earth. But are we prepared to prove it
by carrying it one notch higher and making it of prac-
tical recommendation for peoples of our own blood and
psychologies, in coalition with whom we can dictate
with finality that the peace shall be kept?
I am not saying that this is the Utopia of the immediate
present. I am not so brash as to go before my fellow
citizens with any recommendation that we can at once
leap into such positive relationships. I have written
this work purely to express my own ideas and concepts
of what I believe is stirring in this world of the present,
on the principle that today's phantasmagoria is tomor-
row's trite reality.
Once upon a time, for upwards of a hundred years,
speculative thinkers in this western hemisphere dared
to dream of an American Union exempted from harass-
ments of overseas stupidities. It took the indignities of
a British king's stamp tax to weld human thinking and
make the Dream materialize. Who shall say that in this
twentieth century we shall not be confronted with auto-
cratic fiats quite as insufferable, crystallizing our hetero-
geneous psychologies as at present operating upon these
sizable matters and producing a condition where Aryan
man must coalesce or perish? Ponder on it well.
498
America's part in any second World Tragedy, such as
the Jews projected in Europe in 1914, cannot help but
be significant. She is a country at present without a
foreign policy. Economically she must continue to
mind her own affairs more or less, or dissipate herself
in political and commercial abnormalities which add
nothing to youthful spirituality.
I have said elsewhere that America is the epitome of
what will shortly materialize universally, and I repeat
and emphasize my statement.
I believe that America, and the American political ad-
venture, were projected from the start to cast a pattern
of a World Republic that should be visible to all races
as the thing which all manki~d can attain in a political
structure over diverse nationals and racial groupings.
f]f That is her mission.
That is her destiny..
When it is fulfilled-and not before-she will be will-
ing to pay less bombastic and adolescent attention to her
"sovereignty," and do her share with other truly civi-
lized countries coming into and sustaining a world· or-
ganization of indubitable worth.
But that time is not yet. The whole world must settle
the Jewish question first. For America to enter into any
sort of political alliance with Europe before the Great
Causation brings about the proper international struc-
tlire, would be grievously abortive and is therefore not
permitted. Those statesmen who in the matter are
termed lrreconcilibles, are therefore nothing of the
499
sort. That "little group of wilful men" so much dis-
paraged by professional pacifists-who in turn are but
contemptible satraps playing the subtly controlled mili-
tary game of rapacious Semitics-are but carrying out
the orders of great spiritual forces with the most mag-
nificent obedience and loyalty, albeit they are far from
aware of the roles they are playing and why they have
been given them.
When the time comes for the United States to take any
of the steps which I have outlined-mark me well in
this!-it is my firm conviction that there will be found
sitting in the Chief Executive's chair in this nation, a
man who has known of this Spiritual Machinery for
years, who has "been under orders" so to speak, even
as Woodrow Wilson was previously under orders of a
negative sort, to complete the bridging of all civilized
nations in their political intercourse with the World Re-
public. He will actualize the final fusion of the interests
of the individual citizens of the participating countries,
not callously tossing America's sovereignty into a hectic
bedlam of governmental deputies who are little more
than glorified ward-heelers obeying the dictates of their
several national bosses.
This man will have orders to lead the American people
into a World Republic of the Nationals-not against
their fears and wishes, not at the behest or connivance of
international Jewish overlords, not in the face of legis-
lative opposition, but with the full; free, and beneficent
consent of the millions whom he heads.
500
He will coach and inspire the American people into their
Finality of Citizenship as hereinbefore sketched, not as
Chief Demagogue seeking future aggrandizement in the
history books 'of a billion unborn school children, but as
a wise and kindly shepherd at the forefront of his flock,
having its perfect confidence and astutely making cer-
tain that the mutual destination is not the stalking
ground of wolves.
The burden on him will be colossal, but he will not bear
that burden-in the sense of mortal responsibility.
These great Spiritual Forces that have sustained and en-
nobled every American President in the esteem of
American humanity, and which sustain and ennoble
every true leader of peoples, will give him superhuman
wisdom and power to fill his brevet.
Let the American people read this as prophecy. It is
written large on the front page of every newspaper,
morning after morning.
The present trend of world event is in the direction of
cataclysm. More men are under arms in this year and
month than in any prior time within the history of the
race. Money and credit have been mulcted from in-
dustry to emasculate the internal strength of the coun-
tries designated for attack. Science and inventiveness
daily announce more and more fearful instruments of
conflict. War goes into four dimensions: Land, Sea,
Marine Depth, and Stratosphere. Old equipments are
being scrapped. Phalanxes of. pacifists are being sent
on ahead as the vanguards of the hosts of a new
501
·__..,.
Avernus. Strike a balance between supra-natural prog~
nostication and current newspaper reportings, and you
have a workable hypothesis for the interpretation of the
future~ ~
(jf The Moving Finger writes today as upon the banquet
walls of Babylon. And yet the picture is not one of
dolor, when we view the Coming Scene through the
lenses of Clean Spirit I
502
1
I
I
THE THIRTY-THIRD DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~ THE THIRTY-THIRD DISCUSSION ~
0 much for the nations taken as
a sheep flock under many she~
herds. I called attention in my
first volume to the paradox:
Self-Governing Peoples. I ad-
vanced the argument in logic
that any people who needed
government could not be ex-
pected to supply it out of them-
selves, because a people in need of government is a peo-
ple in need of Discipline, and a people in need of Dis...
cipline cannot advance, out of themselves, that which
they thus lack. It would be much the same thing as a
citizen who is financially embarrassed saying: "I am
absolutely bereft of this world's goods, I have neither
money nor resource. Therefore, out of my lack of
wealth, I will proceed to meet my formidable obliga-
tions"~~
What passes for Self-Government, therefore, in this
somewhat addled world of ours, is an agreement on the
part of a majority of the citizens that they will create
by mandatory acknowledgment a body of minority citi-
505
,...~---------~~=====------------------
zens set apart from themselves, who shall have the rights
and prerogatives of inflicting penalties .on the majority
-or rather, individuals constituting the majority-if, as,
and when certain statutes are violated.
These statutes are put forth to describe certain rights
which each member of the majority feels that he wants
to exercise, enjoy, and profit from, in his own case, and
because he wants to exercise, enjoy, and profit from
them in his own case, he concedes that his fellow citi-
zens do likewise in respect to themselves.
These rights being described-and being .acknowledged
as wholesome in that they serve the constructive pur-
poses of life in the human form-a deliberately created
Minority Enforcement Caste is endorsed and supported
-a Caste that of itself is idealistically considered to be
above personal transgression or violation of the statutes
that it is created to preserve.
An ideal is served here, and an ideal only.
Mankind feels that a minority caste especially projected
and empowered to enforce certain statutes that make
for the enjoyment of rights desired by all men common-
ly, must of itself be above all transgression of those
rights else the majority suffers from the very thing
that it has created the Enforcement Caste to suppress
or restrain. If this Minority Enforcement Caste is equal-
ly guilty of transgression or violation of those rights,
then its own purpose in creation is defeated.
But here is the rub: Humankind must select the mem-
bers of such Minority Enforcement Caste from a rank
5.06
and .file of ordinary human beings not much different
in moral and mental development from those who desire
that the characteristics of its exclusiveness shall function.
fJf The members of this caste, more popularly known as
Officialdom, are quite on a par with those they elect to
manage. Each one is daily and hourly exposed to all
the fears and.hopes arid weaknesses to which universal
human flesh is heir. He feels the same heat of the noon-
day and shivers from a similar chill after sundown. Un-
less his three meals per day are forthcoming, he suffers
the same pangs of hunger, and if this hunger be pro-
longed to physical unbearableness, he will adopt the
same primordial expedients to end it.
Again I say, there being no greater moral or mental
difference as between the rulers and the ruled, the de-
gree of demarcation is largely one of idealism on the
part of the Empowering Majority as to the Enforcing
Minority, and an academic distinction made to serve the
former instead of any sort· of real physical or spiritual
supernaturality ~ .~
Thus the police department of any given city i~ "sup-
posed" to be above venality or chicane. Its members
are a minority caste set apart to effect law-enforcement
-that is, statutory enforcement of regulations making
· for a peaceable condition arriong all classes of citizens.
The city does not exist in the American Commonwealth
today, wherein a majority of the citizens could not, if
it so elected, physically overpower the total police force
and confine its members behind their own bars-that is~
507
as a matter of the numbers of one pitting themselves for
an exhibit of force against the numbers of the other.
Still, rarely does the majority consider such an act, no
matter how gross, corrupt, or incompetent such police
force becomes.
One lone patrolman, walking a darkened slum in uni-
form, is a poor match for any three thugs he may dis-
cover in the act of robbing a loft. Nevertheless, that
one lone patrolman, by the essence of his appointment
to subdue robbers in general, has the moral support of
all the law-abiding citizens of the city at his back.
Nothing is exercising here but an ideal.
It is the ideal of the policeman stalking through the slums
to guard them against robbers, as being an epitome of
the whole citizenry•s disapproval of crime-and en-
dorsement of punitive measures to suppress it-that en-
dows him with his moral courage and makes him a fac-
tor to be avoided in robber psychology.
The ideal here, therefore, is stronger than the man. Be-
cause the ideal is ever stronger than the man, so in time
the two become confused in the popular estimation: the
ideal and the man. They interchange places, the ideal
and the man. The man becomes the ideal and the ideal
is the man.
When this interchange of identities has taken place over
a period of time, we term the result a Tradition. A
tradition is a custom so long continued that it has the
force of law. It comes from the Latin term "trans,"
meaning "over" and "do," meaning "give"-to "give
508
over'' is its true translation-to surrender, or relinquish~
We relinquish our idealistic concepts of the Policeman,
the Omnipotent Guardian, to the actualities of the po·
liceman, the very human man.
All this is because we know that life lacks omnipotence
in any form in its humanly controlling factors, yet know-
ing that such are mandatory by the emergencies :and ex-
cesses of life, we poignantly create them by our ideals
and endow them with our wish-desires-in regard to im.-
partiality-·-and power in enforcing rights and privileges.
We have the same proposition in Voltaire's apt com-
ment in regard to man and God. Voltaire commented
that "if there were no God, then man would have to
create Him, because of man's necessity that He exist."
~ What God represents therefore, to man, in the celes.;
tial state, the policeman or official of the Minority En~
forcement Caste 'represents in the earthly state.
Not having gods at hand physically, with their higher-
than-human powers, to dress in policemen's uniforms
and protect humans, man essays the next best thing: He
creates an ideal of honor, courage, tenacity, and integri-
ty, and bestows it on the candidate for the policeman's
job. Or rather, he takes the candidate for the police-
man's job, introduces him to man's idealism as to what
an incorrupt officer should be, and seeks to train the
rookie copper to· live up to it in practice.
Living up to this ideal in practice, is the job!
But none of it, coming back to our consideration of Law,
is, in' the frailest degree, Self-Government.
509
Nor is the fact that man socially recognizes his need for
the ideal policeman·s function, any aspect of self-dis-
cipline ~ ~
Considered basically, it is rather Self-Defense.
The average man wants peace in his neighborhood, se-
curity from robbers in his possessions, his home and
womenfolk's chastity immune from depredation. Not
having a literal and physical god to call into the situation
and supply the superhuman force necessary to insure
these at times, he takes the ideal derived from the god-
omnipotence and asks the poor, frail, susceptible human
"cop," to live up to it as he can. But underneath all of
it, naught but the self-defense, self-preservation, and
self-exemption motive is at work.
Self-government, therefore, I reemphasize, is a pathetic
misnomer. Even the expedients that man embraces
to arrive at the god-effect, are in themselves vicarious.
fJf The policeman shall do the things that the citizen
shrinks from doing.
The policeman is "paid" to attack the robber, stop the
riot, apprehend the rapist.
If man truly were capable of self-government, and act-
ually practiced it, he could dispense with the policeman.
He could even go further. He could dispense with the
misnomer of self-government itself.
We are merely toying with wordy terms, therefore,
when we talk bombastically of these things and accept
that they are actual.
And what goes for the common citizen of America in
510
this regard, goes for the nation-with its paid army and
naval forces-and for nations as nations-brushing
shoulders with each other.
We are wanting, on this earth, in a higher omnipotent
power to physically knock heads together, keep each
man on his own lawful property where he belongs by
principles of equity, and stop the kleptomaniac and mis-
creant from taking advantage of the peaceable citizen's
desire to live peaceably. So we embrace the next best
thing-the ideal pushed forth in a "governing" official-
dom, supposed to be above suspicion in integrity, and
considered in idealism even when inside knowledge and
worldly wisdom admits of the reverse.
~-.,..,m"-HESE fundamentals we must remember
when we look abroad in these present
Dark Ages, and try to comprehend such
actionist forces displaying among all na-
tions as Communism, Fascism, New-Deal-
ism, and most of the other isnis that chiefly serve to be-
fuddle those who seek to understand them.
Orderly man wants protection and what he calls a Square
Deal from his more disorderly brethren. A Square Deal,
of course, is merely his choice of words in expressing
the bargaining-thought that he will exchange his own
circumspect behavior for circumspect behavior from his
neighbor. He takes many methods for effecting this or-
der and protection. Or rather, he acknowledges that
it __is perhaps possible for him to gain to them by sub-
511
,_;
·l
scribing to any one of three forms of super-control pro-
jected by men following one of three philosophies-.-
First, the military or police-arm of the autocrat;
Second, the military or police arm of a political party;
Third, the military or police arm of a senate composed
of representatives of many castes and classes.
In the entire history of human life on earth we discover
no traces of any fourth method or measure that has ever
been conceived by human· mind, or tried. Therefore,
finding it not to exist, we conclude, as rational beings,
that it does not exist·in this octave of our consciousness
in any conceivable pattern.
Some might ask why I do not include in my list the mili-
tary or police arm of a sheer democracy, calling my at-
tention to the .phenomenon of Athens or the Grecian
City States in the days before the Roman ascendancy.
They advance such suggestion, or inquiry, because they
themselves are not erudite in what actually happened in
those "democracies.. so identified.
Majorities of men by mobs, or.sheer balances of human
power, never yet have acted of themselves, and as such
strictly, in the ordering of military or police forces, for
the simple reason that they have never been able to make
themselves coherent.· Always they have had to bend
to some aspect of a senate--called, in such "democracy,..
a People's Assembly-or to a Themistocles or Periscles,
to make their mass or majority voices identifiable to such
military or police servants. So the idea of a "democracy..
resolves itself, under examination, to the actuality of the
512
Senate Expedient. ·. The mere fact that great numbers
of hysterical humans play the temporary roles of the
senators themselves-as in the wild legislative orgies of
the Reign of Terror-does not alter the principle.
Human life itself is not so organizable that a whole peo-
ple of a nation or a State-even a city state-can. gather
in one assembly, at one time, continue sitting constantly
to attend to the public business that endures from year's
end to year's end, divide into the groups for a measure
and. against ameasure, and carry it or lose it by bloc yea
and nay votings. The blood-crazed fools. who packed
the People's Assembly of Paris in 1789 were only a
very small aspect of the whole French peasantry that
had affected .to treat with the aristocracy by violence,
that its wrongs might be redressed. This peasantry in
that particular instance merely projected the senate-rep-
resentative idea by dispensing with orderly electoral sys-
tems for the appointing of such representatives. Those
who were upon the scene and could do so, jammed in
and took the seats, affecting to speak for the lower-
brackets of Franee generally because mob violence
would have been visited swiftly on anyone rash enough
to oppose them.
No, my proposition stands. Mankind has had one of
three systems to follow in given states and periods, to
get the effect of officialdom that in turn commands the
military or civic policeman: The single man, and the
single brain, eslloused in the seat of single-voiced au-
thority; the group of men agreeing upon a platform of
513
L,,
t: j:
~,,- .
action which the masses support or condemn; or the
chamber of deputies in some form or other, speaking
and acting in the name of the whole people by right of
constitutional identification.
Strangely enough, we get a weird analogy to these three
in the organization of drthodox theology: God, the
Host, and the Church.
God is the autocrat.
The Host is the celestial political party.
The Church is the senate or chamber of deputies on
earth, issuing the mundane orders in the octave of physi-
cal action.
Queerly enough, too, in celestiality we have all three
present and functioning, whereas in worldly systems
of so-called government, all three present and function-
ing in the same arena would mean social bedlam ~
We do not need to follow this line of reasoning, howi-
ever, in respect to the phenomena of celestiality ~ It
is merely a capricious observation that leads nowhere.
f:1f Man has three systems of civil control to choose from,
to embrace, endorse, or repudiate, as he looks at his
life on the earth of the present.
We shall examine each, therefore, in the pages remain-
ing in this book, and observe the merits or demerits of
each.~~
Today we might identify them in popular employment
by pointing to Stalinism as the embodiment of the first,
Fascism as the embodiment of the second, and Ameri-
can Republicanism-·-modeled on the Roman republi-
514
canism-as the embodiment of the third ~ ~ ~
Nevermind what the propaganda of the selfishly-conniv-
ing Jew screeches to the contrary, to the dispassion..
ate student in such matters they are iactually three dis-
tinct and separated forms of moral procedure for the
control of men in masses making the conceded State.
We have no bias in considering each of these three,
excepting that you will note that I have named the to-
talitarian condition of civics maintaining in Russia as
of this year 1938, not as Communism but as Stalinism.
(j[ Communism does not exist in Russia under the rule
of the tyrannical .Bolsheviks. Communism as such, is
a system-or at least a theory-of government and so-
cial order according to which, property and instruments
of production are held as a common trust and the prof-
its arising from all labor devoted to the general good.
No such thing is happening, or being practiced, within
the territory of the erstwhile czars.
The instruments of production are .not held as any com-
mon trust among the Russian people except in name and
theory; they are held in the hands of one of the most
absolute racial tyrannies this world has ever known ~
Its profits arising from labor are not devoted to the com-
mon good, first, because there can be no "profits0
ac-
cruing to a whole people-as I have shown, I think, in
my book "No More Hunger"--,.but only to an individ-
ual, or firm of individuals, enhanced in his or their for-
tunes as a result of the misfortunes or losses of certain
other parties. And in Russia's case, even if there were
515
profits, they certainly are not being applied to the com-
mon good, since anyone in present-day Russia who does
not concur in the fiats of the Jewish-Bolshevik Party as
expressed through Stalin and his kommissars, is prompt-
ly taken out and shot.
No, Communism is merely a lip-term that has been com·
mandeered as a camouflage to entrap the unlearned in
such matters, just as at present we are having the same
subversion practiced in this country in referring to our
constitutional republic as a "democracy" ~.
We should call it Stalinism-or Judaism-and name it
properly ~ fy
~~~~~ E HAVE, then, man seeking personal or
family security that is based on some sort
of armed protection against the depreda-
tions of ruffianism, and making primor-
dially what I have· termed elsewhere the
Social Contract-either with one man, one party-group
of men, or an assembly of caste deputies-that in return
for physical, moral, or financial support or tribute, he
obtains the services of some sort of constabulary that
keeps open the avenues of social intercourse so that he
can pursue his wholesome private projects.
No matter, for the moment, how any one of the three of
these-the man, the party, or the chamber-comes
into recognized authority or candidacy for this homage~
What we want to know is: what are the features dis-
tinguishing such service· in any one of the three, that
516
the other two are lacking, and what are the features mak,.
ing it of menace-or at least depredation-to his person-
al concerns and privy projects?
We are forced by the nature of the circumstances, and
what has already gone into three or four hundred pages
of this work, to consider first the One-Man Tyranny
and what its increments may be as its premises may be
maneuvered ~ ~
517
THE THIRTY~FOURTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
THE THIRTY-FOURTH DISCUSSION
T IS a phenomenon of human
~J~~~~~~ consciousness that all souls en-
housed in physical bodies, or
finding expression in the world-
ly scene by reason of using
mortal bodies as mechanisms,
do not derive the same pleas-
ures or profits from forCing
-..a.1L....;::;11111•M111W..a.IB other souls-similarly enhoused
or equipped-to live their worldly careers after patterns
which the first set up from caprice or mania. On the
other hand, there are souls who enter into performings
in the earth octave for no other reason than to domi-
nate the comings and goings of others, prescribe their
· customs and their habits, order their securities or inse-
curities, and generally shape the nature of their life-
careers ~ ~
We must strip such eccentricities down to the very
chassis of human motivations to understand these dif-
ferences, and call upon the profoundest wisdom with
which we are in touch to give us light on the reasons
for such specializings.
521
Why are some people born leaders and other people
born followers?
Why does one man delight in taking responsibility and
dictating to his neighbors, his city, or his nation, as to
how public life should be, whereas another shrinks from
bearing such burdens, is overcome with embarrassment
if he be singled out for the slightest attention, and never
seems to have an original idea from New Year's to Christ-
mas-about anything from the public welfare to the
price of cheese?
Let us say that two men are called out at random from
a given stretch of sidewalk. They are of corresponding
height. They step on the scales and the beam indicates
that the planet has the same pull for the bodies of the
both of them. They eat the same type of food. They
dwell in twin houses. Each has enjoyed the same edu-
cational advantages and been reared under the same
laws of the same social system. They have arrived at
approximately the same total of earthly years and been
exposed to the same climate, government, and social
culture. All the same, these two are different.
One glories in taking initiative, in calling attention to
himself, in handling himself without assistance in any
social, economic, or political situation. If insult be
hurled at him, he retaliates with zest. If he considers
that he has certain rights, and they be trespassed upon,
his temper flares, his indignation mounts, he bristles
with combat, and if enough provocation be afforded
him he will wreak physical injury upon those who heck-
522
le or obstruct him-or seek redress at the law and de-
sist not till compensation has· been made him.
The other man is strictly a herd animal. He does what
others do-in that he sees them doing it-and because
all men appear to act thus-and-so, he is ready to follow
suit. He never strikes out on a new tack for himself-
any such prospect fills him with alarm. If he be in a
situation where he is singled out against the group, his
knees quake, his heart depresses. He actually experi-
ences a sort of pain to discover the eyes of the rabble
upon him~~
When it comes to conducting his affairs, this second
man must at all times have the backing, or at least the
approbation, of his fellows, and if it be not forthcoming,
he is perturbed and "lost" ~ Insult hurled at him pro-
vokes small remonstrance-in fact he is almost eager
to concur with the aggressor that he is a no-account
human worm. That he has rights does not make him
proud, and loss of them does not upset him. He mar-
vels that other men can become wrought up at usurpa-
tion, insolence, chicanery, or mass deceits.
The whole career and life-adventure of this second man
are timorous apologies for being in life at all. He
covets initiative but is more inclined to wonder where
other men get it than to try to realize that he may culti-
vate, practice, and enjoy it for himself.
We say that his character is weak, vacillating, morbid
or capricious, inconstant, unreliable-as the instance
may divulge. But it only occurs to a few of us to won-
523
. der as to why this second man should happen to he thus
fragile-just as we never bethink to question how the
first man came by his disquieting-and sometimes damn-
ing-self-sufficiency.
Yet something is lacking in the second man that the
first has to surfeit. Or rather, we might put it that the
.first man has somehow developed himself along the
pathway of his lives in a manner which the second man
has neglected.
Still, common earth-experiences have been visited on
bothf ~ ~
Considered objectively, each man of the pair is an in-
tegrity unto himself and if given appropriate conditions
would live out his life in his own fashion without seri-
ously disturbing the universe. ~ When the two are
brought into contact, however, or set down in propin-
quity in the common arena, drama of a sort ensues be-
tween them. The man with initiative at once consid-
ers it his prerogative to dominate over the man who so
obviously lacks it. The man who lacks it, permits the
other to browbeat or victimize him, and does not seem to
see anything particularly remiss within his own charac-
ter that he should pacifically endure it.
Why are these two so sharply demarcated?
Where did the first man get his initiative, his temper,
his pride, his independence, his tendency to dictate to
affairs instead of allowing affairs to dictate to him? ~
How comes it that the second man has not acquired
these qualities, and offers himself masochistically as
524
the prey of the more rapacious-even deriving a vague
morbidity from the fact that he is a follower and not a
leader~~
As we determine these positive and negative attributes
in the human character, we shall approach toward a solu-
tion of the distinctions we have set forth as condition-
mgs of social and political rulership.
~~~9~ LL LIFE is predatory - that principle is
generally recognized but inaccurately un-
derstood fj[ Life seems predatory - at
least in the natural world. The eagle is
the plunderer of the hawk, the hawk at-
tacks and lives upon the wren, the wren exists by hunt-
ing and consuming the moth. We get the word preda-
tory from the old Latin term "praedor"-which indi-
cates prey, booty, plunder, or pillage.
Students who logicize from the materialistic basis, who
lack the proper esoteric fundamentals for the interpre-
tation of life, think that all of it is very terrible.
Nature, they declare, is "cruel"~ She takes no account
of the individual, nor of the identified instance of sen-
tient suffering. Nature has no emotion, she is without
pity, compassion, or spiritual concern for anything that
comes within the orbit of her influence.
Why, for instance, should Nature make butcher-birds,
that attack starlings for seemingly the sheer lust of kill-
ing, hanging them upon the needles of the thornbush
and leaving them dead, as their mission of existence?
525
·t;lf Now the thing we must try to understand in such ex-
amples of apparently conscienceless performance, is the
objective which Nature, and Nature's God, are striving
to arrive at, in servicing worldly life with such hectic
inconveniences. Whether it he the example in perform-
ance of the ruthless butcher-bird, or the bloody tyrant
who slays ten thousand men in order to walk upon the
parapets of a stricken and vanquished city-obviously
for no other reason than to gratify his vanity-there
must be a constructive principle at work or all life must
be dismissed as meaningless and sterile. And life-in
no form in which we find it-is ever meaningless or
sterile, else we should never find plausible solutions for
such eccentric occurrences at all.
Rest assured that we do find such plausible solutions.
fJI Looking into the nature of these predatory phenom-
ena as between life-form and life-form, and examining
it for compensations and enhancements to obtain a key
to the mystery, we perceive that directly profitable re-
sults always attend from persecution.
It matters not whether the persecution be for allegiance
to a forbidden spiritual faith on the part of a heretical
people, or persecution of the rabbit by the nocturnal
owl, the same compensations accrue in both cases ~
fJI Vigilance in escaping the persecution-or the pain or
social inconvenience resulting from the persecution-
is generated. This vigilance makes for physical, men• ·
taI. or spiritual adroitness. Physical, mental, or spirit-
ual adroitness-that the pains from persecution be not
526
suffered-has the peculiar effect of causing the perse-
cuted entity to declare unto itself: "'I am myself! I
have existence! I have function and sentient effects
from conscious function!"
This calling of the mental or spiritual attention to the
fact that the entity exists in the sentient state, that it has
election in its own right whether to stay and suffer or
flee and not suffer, that it is-in a manner of speaking
-a free moral agent, discovering traits within itself that
provide for escape or surrender, with physical extinction
the price of sloth, is the whole decalogue of Life in the
great material octave.
Every aspect of life, from gnat in the sunset afterglow
to the archangel molding the spiral nebula, is engaged
in the act of discovering traits within itself that only
the predatory drama could produce.
It is as though Life said unto itself: "The God-Creator,
which man terms Nature, may have set the conditions,
but whether or not I choose to accept and endure them
is strictly up to my spiritual decision in the matter. If I
decide not to accept and endure them, then am I mak-
ing other conditions in mine own right. Thus am I
copying God to such extent, that it is possible for me
to set the conditions. And in the ratio that I thus copy
God, I prove to myself that I too may partake of the
highest God-function." ·
Whoever creates a condition-any sort of a condition-
is a God. So from playing at being God, because all
conditions are forever a matter of spiritual acceptance,
527
Life in its evolving manifestations gradually comes into
the realization that it indeed IS God, or the spiritual
essence from which God is derived.
Thus Life first becomes experiment with Fact. Then
Life becomes Decision. In that Life finally reaches de-
cision, it proceeds to Awareness of Self as abstract
postulation. What at first was mere reaction to stimuli
becomes, down one day, the finest flower of conscious
projection of divine initiative in exploitation of forms
and idealisms that finally hurl galaxies out from the
frictions of its self-sufficient spiritual manifestings.
~g~~~ 0, when we come to view Nature as the
original projection of conditions against
the background of which-or in friction
with which-individualized self-aware-
ness finally makes self-discovery a career
with compounding increment, we perceive that Nature
is not heartless, Nature is not ruthless, Nature is not dis-
passionate, or cruel, or impersonal. Nature is simply
a set of primordial conditions against which, or within
which, all that acquires self-awareness and the develop-
ment of self-awareness through alteration of conditions
by discriminatory election, finds itself, to itself, for the
thing that it is, or holds fecundities for being, in the
Ultimate~~
This being accepted as a principle of Cosmos, nothing
can be predatory. That which is considered to be
predatory is forever educational, or opportunity for self-
528
election manifesting in some type of motion ~ ~
Butcher-birds exist for the profitable-and therefore
benevolent-purpose of teaching starlings that they are
starlings, that they are endowed with bird-election
whether to stay and be hung on a thorn bush or flit with
a flash of wings beyond the butcher-bird's reach. In
the act of deciding not to stay and become impaled upon
the thorn, the starling develops vigilance of mind,
adroitness of wing, perception of opportunities for alter-
ing natural conditions in the bird-world and command-
ing destiny with deliberate forethought.
This is the first step in revealing to the si;.rling that down
a thousand millenniums its life-particle may find itself
far from the starling-consciousness with which it started
out, and discern itself as monarch over planetary sys-
tems-a form of self-projecting natural force which even
mortals of present development have no apparatus for
conceiving ~ ~
Life constructed upon this educational basis must of
necessity be an evolving life. But what is evolvement
in such aspect but constant spiritual discovery of non-
suspected possibilities~ Now, applying the same cosmic
principle to the understanding of the differences in the
two men whom we summoned out from the sidewalk,
we begin to discern light on what was previously a bed-
lamic mystery ~ ~
The man who has initiative, resourcefulness, temper,
self-sufficiency-in short, Character-must simply have
come to know more about himself, and his spiritual
529
t_--
r::
fecundities and capabilities for altering the conditions
of his mortal career and captaining his own soul, than
the offensive little rabbit of a citizen who quakes in his
boots when three men take note of him.
The first man has profited from reaction to various types
of stimuli causing him to declare unto him~elf: "No
matter what condition Life turns up, I have within my-
self all capabilities for meeting and dominating it. I
have made the discovery that no matter what compli-
cations I become involved in, I possess the spiritual
acumen to command them."
The second man, obviously, has made no such discov-
eries. It has not as yet occurred to him in the human
or mortal state to realize that he actually is ALIVE. He
is pitifully unaware that all life exists as a laboratory in
which he is to prove himsef for the content of his
spiritual elements. We say that he has not as yet learned
to trust hims~If, which the first man has done with
astounding revelations as to his intrinsic merit-some-
thing that has been inherent in him from the commence-
ment of the Cosmos in which he has ever been a unit
but which trial-and-error experimenting, under practical
employment of his faculties, had to bring forth.
It is all a matter of spiritual awareness of fecundities of
essence :J:.t' :J:.t'
The degree of this awareness at any point in Cosmos,
we commonly term the Degree of Evolution.
But we do not evolve! We merely recognize!
Suffering is the process by which spiritual essence ac-
530
quires an appraisal of itself as comprising from the
beginning all it shall ever manifest.
Thus come the diversities in so-called human nature.
The first man has discovered more about himself, and
the fecundities of his Godhood to dictate experience-
conditions, than the second man has done. He acts on
this revealment. Acting on such revealment grows
automatic in his habits. He says, colloquially, that ..he
is as good as the next man" and proceeds to prove it by
standing his ground and bashing his insolent or pre-
sumptuous neighbor's head.
He has forthwith made the discovery, or had it disclosed
to him, that bashing a neighbor's head causes said neigh-
bor to shun him, and as his neighbor shuns him, the
said neighbor takes his malodorous characteristics along
in such shunning.
From being the starling, such a one makes the first grop-
ing attempt at operating as the butcher-bird himself ~
q Discovering that unpleasant-not to say intolerable
-conditions may be altered for pleasant and tolerable
conditions by the simple act of exerting the personality
and specifying how far imposition shall endure, the
revelation comes to such a one that Life may comprise
precisely what self-election pronounces and naught else.
fJl So-in the fact that all this is the positive and nega-
tive aspects of spiritual exercise, and that for every
action there must be a reaction, and for every problem a
solution-our first man has moved up toward exercis-
ing in his own small, gross, fumbling manner the next
531
..
i
(..
,
J• •
revelation that truly he IS God-Essence, but operating
under the mortal handicap. The day will come when
he will shed even the mortal handicap, but sentient
existence in still a higher octave will only repeat upon
the process and give him other aspects of the same vast
fundamental .~ ~ ·
The ingredients or performings of his environment will
change, but not his ability to react along lines of self-
discrimination and hence moral evolution. That will
merely strengthen, or-as we say-our man will grow
stamina ~ :41
From this simple principle do we perceive the causations
for such phenomena as mortal leaderships.
The essence of leadership under the conditionings of
any octave, is but the display of previous discoveries
that self-sufficiency is not an acquisition but an uncover-
ing, not a growth but an unfoldment.
Men lead because they have come to that point in such
uncoverings and unfoldings that they trust their own
capabilities to treat with any.emergency with which the
octave may confront them.
Leaders have made the simple and yet profound dis•
covery that no human problem exists without a comple-
menting solution, but that all solutions to problems lie
not in those problems as abstract propositions but in
the one who addresses himself to them, finding the solu-
tion· within his own essence.
532
J.i;J1~~;JAN in this earth-world, we can safely set it
down, is engaged in the business of dis-
covering that he is Baby God! tJI The
experiences of certain Baby Gods are
such, however, that they make discoveries
-about their unfoldable talents at a faster pace than
others, or they subject themselves to trial-and-error ex-
periencings which serve to bring the colossal fecundities
of their infolded talents home to the sphere of their con-
sciousness-or the focal-point of consciousness express-
ing spherically.
Others do no such thing. They are the more inhibited
in that venturing which alone uncovers discrimination
and agility of body, mind, and psyche. They have not
"lived" long enough to become aware of the mighty
hoax that these mortal Baby Gods play upon one
another in bandying the notion .that they are creatures
of clay and dust, fated to non-existence when the fleshly
mechanism stops.
But this is potent-
Just as Nature provides a pastoral arena for the owl to
provoke the rabbit, or the starling to flee the butcher-
bird, so in the higher realm-or octave-of mortality in
the human sense, the same Overbrooding Providence
provides the weak.er or less-aware soul with juxtaposi-
tion to the stronger, older, wiser, and more predatory
temperament in his fellow human.
This state of friction in which the older in revealment
and the "younger in self-disclosure'' operate, is called
533
Society. And because the predatory or self-reliant
temperament does not always gauge accurately the edu-
cative endurance of the younger and less-aware tempera-
ment, and inflicts conditions that may cause the younger
and less-aware temperament to perish physically, or
become grievously damaged psychologically, there are
norms of restraining forces introduced.
These are called Governments.
Strong, wise, self-reliant, self-sufficient souls need no
governments to operate for their own cases, as we have
argued earlier in this book. Always governments are a
matter of giving the weaker, the more ignorant and timid
temperaments, the chance to grow strong by a gauged
and tested tempo, as indicated or demonstrated by mass
experiences that when coded are called History.
Thus by still another route do we approach the phe-
nomenon of the instrument by which this control is
achieved in the practical sense.
lt may be proffered by a single individual of outstand-
ing self-reliance, by a Party that combines the thinking
of a group in expressions of social regulation, or in a
chamber of deputies authorized by the weak to protect
them in their weakness.
But if it be proffered by the single individual of out-
standing self-reliance, then facility of single-brain move-
ment and expedited executiveship must always become
counter-balanced by the tendency of that self-reliant
soul to experiment in commandings of weaker or
younger mortal destinies and observe· how far it shall
534
be permitted even by mass weakness to fl.aunt such dis-
covered strength.
For even mass weakness may develop a strength of its
own, that the weakness itself may not be aware of until
after such strength has been demonstrated. If this
sounds paradoxical, consider that all Life is a paradox
itself~~
Starting in as life, it tests itself by applying the test of
life to something that already is proving itself for what
it is by its capacity to live at all.
535
THE THIRTY-FIFTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
THE THIRTY-FIFTH DISCUSSION
0 go back a bit, the ethnologist
~~.,.my;;.a,;11i.1.,~ or historian without High-
er Octave wisdom to aid
him in discernments, assumes
as a fact of life that Man above
all else wants security in the
mortalized condition in which
he discovers himself, subse-
quent to each physical birth.
This insistence on security, which becomes a mania after
a few hectic contacts with natural vicissitudes, is called
in the physical sense, Self-Preservation. In the mental
sense it is observed as being Social Integration. In the
spiritual sense it exhibits as Orthodoxy-which in any
religious concept is a sort of break-proof fence set about
the Elysian Fields. What man in any one of these three
is really trying to achieve, is a standardization of condi-
tions with which his sentient spirit may treat, that by
adaptability of such psyche to them he may gradually
become the arbiter of circumstance.
What man truly wants when he speaks of Security,
therefore, is environmental friction and abrasion reduced
539
to a. minimum of discomfort, and the emasculation of
natural circumstances-through his adaptability or
otherwise-to that point where any alteration in the
circumstances does not occur and transpire at a swifter
tempo or pace than his capacity for adaptation in every
instance~~
It is necessary for us to understand thoroughly this
analysis of Security, and discern the basic urge behind
it, before we can hope to comprehend what I shall
presently designate as the Jurisdictional Cycle.
The Jurisdictional Cycle is something that too few eth-
nologists, sociologists, and historians, take note of.
It is the spiraling order of progression which Man en-
gages in, as between types of rulership, in his constant
mania to forever preserve the status quo-where by
reason of perfected adaptability to circumstances or en-
vironment the latter may hold no proclivities toward his
hurt .f.!I ~
The astute among us are beginning to see that there is
an integrated relationship as between onc:fman rule,
party rule, and deputy-chamber rule, thence over into
one-man rule again and around the cycle-or spiral-
with a constant upward trend.
We shall discuss this phenomena in a moment.
What the ethnologist or historian-without Higher Oc-
tave wisdom to aid him in his discernments-does not
always grasp, is the Benevolent Impulse in Nature as
defined in the last Discussion, working continually for
the shattering of security that man by his constant mania
540
-------~--------~~.~---
to preserve the status quo may increase in the stature of
his knowledge of himself.
Putting it in another way, the alarms, menacings, and
jeopardies of earth-life are not strictly alarms, menac-
ings, and jeopardies, but the purposeful stimuli deliv-
ered to life that Life in reacting to them may discover
the celestial potentialities infolded within itself and
thereby achieve a more marvelous knowledge of the
lurking mystery in the statement, "I AM!"
~~~~~TTER security would mean the arrestment
of a wholesomely unfolding s~lf-aware­
ness. It would result in an inhibited
spiritual development, or a halted progres-
sion out of the original celestial envelope.
On the other hand, the environment or social integration
should not be disturbed with too much violence, else the
contacting arid benefiting psyche misses the point of the
improved self-awareness entirely.
Violence, of course, is naught hut circumstances alter-
ing at too swift a pace for the common mean of mankind
to observe reflectively what is happening as to its ulti-
mate significance on all given spectators.
Coming back to our bird analogy again, to make this
point clear: if the bird-world contained no butcher-
birds, the starling could exclaim that it had arrived at an
utter security. But bird conditions would likewise, and
thereby, have been precipitated, wherein the stimuli
would be lacking to make new baby starlings realize
541
. i
that they are birds. This perfect extermination of danger
would likewise have exterminated the cause of instruc-
tion, wherefrom consciousness derives the greater esti-
mate of itself.
In the human world we put it that the removal of
alarms, menacings, and jeopardies, offering society the
perfect security in consequence, results in moral and
civic stagnation. Human nature in a state of utter
security becomes pleasurer-loving and ethically lax.
Virilities are abandoned and introvert practices com-
mence. A characterless, wishy-washy people is the
product~~
So, as between utter security with its enervating effects
on body, mind, and spirit of a citizenry generally, and
an insecurity that accomplishes no constructive purpose
because happenings under it occur too swiftly or drasti-
. cally for spiritual man to absorb the pro.fits ethically,
there must be a mean or compromise. Or perhaps a
better way to express the thought is, that in a world
where Nature herself stipulates insecurity-that Life
may increase in knowledge of itself by successfully com-
bating it-there should be some fabricated arrangement
serving as a brake on too violent projections of inse-
curity that effect not increased self-awareness but an
injury or demolishment.
This fabricated arrangement is official jurisdiction in
whatever form it operates.
It is social integration performing its own safeguards
542
by exercising at the dictation of Man, Party, or Chamber.
~ True, Man or Party or Chamber cannot legislate in the
matter of restraining the erupting volcano, but Man,
Party, or Chamber can function in so directing mortal
reaction from such stimuli that mass absorption of some
brand of profit results.
Let us at all times reflect that the Absorbed Profit is
life's supreme achievement and excuse for operating.
~~Qm~AN wants security, we concede. He wants
to preserve his status quo, because absorb-
ing new experiences which help to unfold
his consciousness of himself, always calls
for expenditure of effort-and expenditure
of effort means an expenditure of energy. Expenditure
of energy is always accompanied by a sense of loss, and
a sense of loss is forever painful-or at least uncom-
fortable. Man wants perpetual comfort, in other words,
or a state where energy-expenditure from his body,
mind, or spirit is reduced to a minimum or made wholly
unnecessary ~· ~
Nature-or Nature's Providence in such matters-de-
clares this wanted state to be abominable, in that it tends
back toward infoldment and spiritual degeneracy.
Therefore we have conflict-that ancient quarrel be-
tween Man and God, between flesh and spirit.
And yet we must preserve a rational sympathy toward
man's side of it. There is man's mortal mechanism,
and its limitatio~s, to be taken into account.
543
Man's body, to be specific, is declared by physiological
chemists to be composed of eighty-six percent water.
It is, forsooth, a pliant and yet an inconvenient water-
sac. True, it stands alone when filled, and exercises a
seemingly self-motivated locomoting energy. But it is
a frail and precarious enhousement at best.
When we take into account the limitations of this water•
sac as man encounters them mortally, we discern this
constant handicap making for the thing called Fear-
If man's wilful spirit causes this water-sac to behave
too boisterously, it breaks. If, as, and when it breaks,
the psyche of Man can no longer apply itself strictly to
earthly pursuits. It is unseated, ejected, made to vacate
the very mechanism that renders absorption of earthly
profit apparent to its seat of consciousness.
Now this breakage and release may come from causa-
tions external as well as internal.
The very elements themselves may treat boisterously
with this water-sac, and man's spirit must retire from the
profiting earthly arena.
Masses of other psyches, also enhoused in these water-
jackets may waylay and assault him, breaking the sac
and spilling forth the directing spirit.
Man comes into the water-sac to get certain experiences
causing him to realize that the confined and directing
intelligence is an entity of cosmic import. As we have
seen in a score of places, if the water-sac is in any way
injured, the whole earthly venture reduces to minus.
Man is therefore instinctively careful about what hap-
544
pens to his water-sac. It is his first concern that he shaU
save it at all times harmless, and preserve it.
He is willing to make terms, within certain bounds
called civic conditions, with whatever agencies may
demonstrate their abilities to aid him in preserving it.
fJI So, up the ages, it has occurred to certain psyches-
older in cosmic sociology and personal experimentings
with their further unfolded talents-to say to them-
selves, whether for good or evil, "These fellow mortals
of mine, not possessing my advanced recognitions about
myself, are ever fearful that evil designs or destructive
agencies will be engineered against their water-sacs.
They are willing to barter the efforts of the wills that are
inside themselves, to anyone, for any purpose that will
set up an earthly arrangement whereby great numbers
of water-sacs align themselves into an organized force
to stave off punishment, injury, or malfeasance in any
form, wittingly or unwittingly executed upon them, by
those whom they thereby consider their 'enemies.' If,
therefore, I can be the person or the influence that
cements one coterie of water-sacs into a protective
force and offers its liaison-services to individuals to pro-
tect them against their enemies who would infringe
upon their status of water-sac safety, I can dictate to
large numbers of living people when they shall go and
when they shall come, what they shall eat and what
they shall wear, how they shall house themselves, and
what shall be their occupations."
It is a curious phenomenon of circumstance, that certain
545
.,,.
so-called Master Spirits-master-spirits for evil as well
as good, remember-wish to assume this role of arbiter
over the experiences of other spirits clad in earthly
water-sacs ~ .~
The life-tenure is peculiar in this, that certain "guiding"
entities do wish to impose themselves upon the earthly
life-careers of others, and impress their own person.-
alities upon their comings and their goings.
It gives these highly-developed spirits a vicarious om-
nipotence to do this. They actually enjoy it-that they
are the controlling elements in the lives of their kind,
similarly enhoused in fleshly water-sacs.
They say unto themselves: "We are thus partaking of
the attributes of gods before our time"-that is, before
they as Master Spirits are capable of projecting such vast
water-sac systems in their own rights, or rather, splitting,
severing, and dividing their own instruments of con-
sciousness so that they "make" literal men and women
of their own, or in multiplication of their own per-
sonalities in infinitesimal units, unto the end of time ~
f:lf They are multiplying themselves thus-at least in ef-
fect-before they have become grown into the state or
stage to do that thing "naturally."
What truly is happening is, that they are exercising
themselves aforetime in a sort of cosmic practice, or
rehearsal, for the infinite roles they shall play as Fully
Developed and adult Gods, up the reaches of infinite
Space and Cosmic Operation.
They look about them on this earth-plane and observe
546
certain spirits less developed, less daring, less cou-
rageous, less able to fend for themselves cosmically,
than others. They say, "I shall be Master unto these
ahead of my god-ordained province in the matter. I
shall make them to go and come. I shall open their
vaults of knowledge of this-and-that, and make them
to realize that they are what they are. All this shall
accrue to me as mentor and leader of these peopl~water­
sacs in their worldly exhibitions, one unto the other. I
will therefore organize this people, so many souls in
water-sacs to do this-and-that, so many identities of
spirit to operate here and operate there. I shall be the
supreme arbiter of their earthly destinies. I shall super-
vise their comings and their goings. They shall live and
breathe and exercise mortally by my fiats. I shall, in
fact, 'play god' before it is a matter of enlargement for
me to do so. In doing this, I shall establish my cosmic
importance. I shall exhibit the degree and talent of
mine age. I shall operate as a distinctive Controlling
Unit, and all men in cosmos shall acknowledge mine ad-
vance over them."
This is the principle and the operating unit of introvert
cosmic declaration.
547
U!o~ ...~::L. HERE is another unit, another exhibit,
~ ~ another operative force, enhoused in the
~ same sort of water-sac temporarily, that
~
.-..... says: "My weaker, more ignorant,
..:;-..:1fl~ i~ shorter-lived, and less experienced breth-
ren m their fleshly water-sacs, have need of my greater
adventurings in the earthly condition and the lessons
and disciplinings that I have learned therein. Mayhap by
returning among them and demonstrating what I have
acquired, because of mine own experiencings in advance
of them, I shall be able to lighten the load of their own
witnessings to themselves. I will therefore return to the
worldly water-sac condition and operate mundanely as
teacher and leader. I will do this, not because I espe-
cially want to declare myself as this or that, but because
by so instructing others I shall give them of myself, I
shall impart to them something of mine increased cosmic
sovereignty as it has come to me. .I shall be able to
make their cosmic struggles lighter and perhaps receive
their everlasting gratitude that shall accrue to me in
cosmic friendships later on, that shall aid me materially
in the effacings of much of mine own unhallowed karmic
eventualities. I will therefore go back and 'serve.' I
will instruct others as to what the way on ahead is like.
I will make their pathways easier, and in so doing I will
gam compassionate consideration from many still on
ahead of me who will think kindly of me for having
shown myself so considerate."
These are the true leaders of society, and they come back
548
into worldly water-sac conditions again and again, to
take upon themselves the veil of flesh and wear it for a
number of years-as we say-constructively.
They are not living for themselves. They are striving
to bring about a deliberate constructive improvement of
all spirits thus clad in water-sac instrumentalities. But
there is a great void between tliese, and the ones who
vaingloriously declare themselves: "The world and all
that is therein, is mine own possession, and under mine
own sacrosanct dictatorship, if I but contrive to get peo-
ple to believe in mine ability to afford them either pro-
tection or enhancement in their water-sac personalities
whilst they are living out any passing mortal span or
sequence. I shall therefore order them into organiza-
tions, or phalanxes of social control, in which coagula-
tions I shall effect the armor that they want, but mine
own shall be interpreted by them as the Al Sirat that ac-
crues to them in their hazardous predicament. And yet
I will be smart. I will not divulge that I am a being not
in the slightest manner different from themselves. I will
propose to them that one man shall come here and do
this, and another man shall go there and do that. I will be
the brains, and the temperament, and direct the legs and
the sinews for them as a coagulated social body. I will
utilize this social body and order it into patterns of ac-
complishment that shall cause these water-sacs to do for
themselves what they might do for themselves anyway
but which I am clever enough in my cosmic initiative to
compel them to do by the nature of their own fears as
549
-~----
to reprisals if they do not do. I will thus make myself
a ·mighty' person, as the earthly arena knows might.
I will improve on myself after many generations, and
order and command greater and greater cohorts of ex-
ponents of myself. Thus will I approximate the god-
being whilst still confined in the earth-state and not en-
tirely removed from the same conditions that affect
these dupes which I weld to my dominant aspirations.''
C]f This is generally the line of self-persuasion of the
spiritual-operating dictator, the man or the personality
who leaves his impress in actionis~-events up'.on the
course of history. He has discovered that men want
security, but that they have not yet perceived such se-
curity to lie within their own aligned and coordinated
efforts, one in league with another. So he, the dictative
one, comes along and says: ..I will show you how to
accomplish it. You surrender or submit your will and
earthly destiny to mine, and I will form you into an
impregnable force that by the strength of its numerical
coagulations shall collectively accomplish what the indi-
vidual wants personally."
550
-~~9~ T EXACTLY such a point do we have the
projection of the One Man Authority, the
earthly or the worldly dictator. fJl This
dictator truly is exhibiting a curious con-
dition or assembly of factors, within him-
He is saying, "I perceive what is the true nature
and essence of my ultimate godhood. I shall project
and direct billions of these human units in mine ultimate
god-state. If I am to do this ultimately, and of mine own
spiritually-creative essence, I might as well achieve to
it in practice in the passing earthly circumstance. I have
only to deceive these water-sac spirits, to tell them that
they are in grave danger from this-and-that, to get them
to align and operate themselves after my desires. I can-
not say why I should possess such desires. They accrue
to me and I indulge them. I find a certain morbid pleas-
ure in thus being the controlling factor in the mortal
activities of such fellow units. It seems to give me a
laudable value to myself, as against the billions and tril-
lions of unidentified minions in All Cosmos. It makes
me Stand Out. It impresses me unto myself, as myself.
I am the controlling watchword and moral sentinel of
an epoch. I am Myself Incarnate, operating through
wilful direction of others and getting mine acclaim in
terms of their concentrated accomplishments. I have
but to form these lesser-developed and more timid souls
into phalanxes and regiments, and force them into obedi-
ence to my whimsical commands, and all is well with
me in my appreciations of myself as a spirit emerging
551
into a celestial potentate-of whose glory I have as yet
small conception excepting as I try to typify it at present
in mine authoritative position:"
These thoughts, weighings, considerings, and conclud-
ings, are-forsooth-the genesis of that personage that
man on earth exclaims upon as a Dictator.
It is such a perspicacious soul, so operating, so reason-
ing, so deploying, that assumes charge of millions of
water-sac spirits through what is termed Organization,
and lifts himself to top-lofty worldly eminence and ag-
grandizement ~ ~
It is this type of perspicacious spirit, thus operating,
that brings about the essence of the first state we have
considered as fundamental government: The one brain
taking the place of many brains and making of one per-
sonality the embodiment of the social unit.
We do not need to go further than this to find the true
cosmical explanation for the phenomenon of Stalinism.
Hitlerism is different, in that Hitler sincerely seeks to
serve his national unit as a great public benefactor.
Stalin~ as a water-sac personality, seeks to serve and en-
hance himself and none other.
552
---~---·-- -~-~~-x~-----------~----------------------------------------------- -- - --~--~~~~~~-
~f;~!Qa ROM time immemorial this same thing has
happened. Men of slightly greater cosmic
functioning, who have dared more and
learned the value of cosmic audacity, have
come back into wafer-sac confines to
•'lead" or "direct" their fellowman.
What they truly have essayed to accomplish is this:
It has come home to them that spirits in water-sacs are
more fearful of losing their earthly or fleshly coverings
than any other calamity that can befall them. So they
have-and now do, in a manner-capitalized upon that
fear by showing such spirits how they can get together
as a group or a nation and put up concentrated resistance
to a destroying force, that is more successful in effect or
ultimate design than any one of them so acting as the
lone individual ~ ~
For this direction, or suggestion as to defense-action,
these older cosmic spirits take special compensation.
They say, "I will show you how to do this if you will ac-
claim me, and memorialize me, and make me of greater
concern in your memory-books than those who have
merely lived and functioned without attempting to
render you any such service in social organization."
And water-sac people, willy-nilly, have said: "Here is
one who exhibits the idealism we have wanted to express
as superior god. Let us therefore do him honor. Let us
raise his name among us. He has pointed us the way
to an apparent Security. We shall not lose our water-
sacs and thus be unable to function on earth, if we but
553
-~
follow his dictations." All of it is a bargain; a transfer,
a barter of this item for that item, of that value for this
value, of protection for adulation, of self-preservation
for the aspects· of a fairly well defined moral serfdom.
Of such were the first dynasties of' the material or po-
litical world contrived.
Man wanted security. The Small Individual rose up
and said, ..I will show you how to get it. I will not
furnish it myself, because-considered from the water-
sac standpoint-I am but a spirit clad in a fleshly
veil like yourselves. But my greater cosmic experience
will direct you into such· social patterns that the pro-
tection shall accrue to you, and for this direction you
must adulate me as being a god, before my time."
Man says, "We want the protection above all else. Get
you to the business and you shall have our homage." So
the self-styled leader gathers about himself one or two
or three personalities who are susceptible to his skill in
presenting ethical arguments. These in turn persuade
two or four or six that it would be better for them to
follow the leader than to try to experiment and explore
for themselves-and perchance lose their own water-
sacs in the daring. These in turn pass the word to four
and eight and twelve. The first man·s influence com-
pounds in the exact ratio that the myth about him grows.
Very soon he is all myth-or rather, he is all tradition.
C.lf He is able to sway a thousand, ten thousand, ten mil-
lion, from the sheer fact that an idealism has been pro-
554
jected concerning him, and men's reading into him all
that they recognize as being so deficient in themselves.
~..,...~'.,)NE-MAN rule first came about by one man's
possessing a brain that enabled him to see
that individual man multiplied his own
powers for defense and security by acting
in concert with his fellows, and getting his
fellows to act in concert with himself. We might think
that this gregarious trait would perform of itself, but
strange to narrate, it does not. Someone must act as an
Agent for Coagulation.
Men herd together for protection only when someone
preaches to them that it is to their advantage to do so.
Individual men are fierce individualists. They resent
begging help from their fellows in general. They wait
for someone who takes the lead, sponsors a movement,
offers the pattern to which they can conform, something
they can "join," before they will adhere together and
do the things collectively that they can't do individually.
(jf This, of course, offers the opportunity for the organ-
izing brain to exhibit itself, to perform to its own seem-
ing self-aggrandizement, to say to mankind: "You fol-
low my lead and I will get you what you cannot get
yourself" ~ ~
This organizing brain says the same thing to the next
man, and the next. It pays other men to sally forth and
make the offer to hundreds, to thousands, to millions.
Hapless individuals .acquiesce because ·they themselves
555
will not thereby be penalized in case error develops in
the mass performance.
The organizing brain simply projects a pattern for other
brains to adhere to. The pattern is the elongated
shadow of his own personality, in that he conceived it
and proposed it out of his more mature experimenting.
Conversely, those who conform to the pattern, translate
the pattern itself into terms of the one who has pro-
jected it~~
Soon millions are in movement toward a given objective
or in unison for a common execution. And because
the movement has been projected from the one brain, so
those who endorse the movement by their presences in
it, find themselves instinctively obeying the continuing
directions of the one brain.
One man thereby does the thinking for ten millions. If
he makes an error, of course ten millions pay his penalty.
If he be brilliantly successful, ten millions profit-with
no especial credit to themselves that they have done so.
We are considering now the man who gradually
makes himself tyrant, in the original meaning of the
term. This man, being very human himself, having pro-
jected the social pattern to which ten thousand or ten
million can conform, finds that he has created an or-
ganism to which he is the slave.
Its demands upon him are more than flesh and blood can
stand~~
He must labor early and late to furnish the executive
directions for the movements of such a horde. All that
556
the horde performs for weal or woe, is laid at his per-
sonal door. He finds after a time that whereas he
originally cast a pattern for human beings to conform
to, the said human beings have translated that pattern
into terms of himself.
He is the pattern, and the pattern in his own mortal per-
sonality. No distinctions are allowed. One is hope-
lessly enmeshed with the other. His own whims and
caprices function as part of the system.
Gradually such a man loses even a perspective upon
himself and his own mortal limitations. If his body
misbehaves and suddenly constricts in ache, the ten
million votaries feel the effects of the spasm.
We say his "word becomes law." ...
We do not mean that, of course. We mean that Man
and Pattern have become hopelessly confused. As he
has a caprice for this or that, so the pattern that .he
epitomizes has a caprice to become this or that.
It suddenly comes home to such an organizer that he is
a performer in human lives. The pattern of the social
or political organization is so inextricably interwoven
with himself that his least whim or mood is reflected in
its functionings.
The inertia of the Movement controls him as a serf, and
in that he perceives it, he sets a false estimate upon him-
self. Really he is contemptuous of these people who
need some sort of pattern to conform to, to get them this
or that~~
Knowing his own limitations, he is contemptuous of
557
those who are not aware that such private limitations
exist and accept the pattern and the man as being the
one item~~
Finally the day arrives when he wants surcease, free-
dom from responsibility, the chance to live and enjoy
as the normal human creature inclosed in a water-sac.
He resents his own serfdom to the Frankenstein which
he has projected. He says in an unguarded moment of
pique: "Take that man out and shoot him! He annoys
me by his yammerings."
The offending one is taken out and executed.
Still, the first can do no wrong, for he is the Pattern.
Thereat it becomes disclosed to such a one that ob-
struction to his moods can be obliterated and erased by
the destroying of the water-sacs of the very spirits that
have elevated him to his notorious position by their
willingness to acquiesce to his pattern-proposals and
thus obtain security.
Such a pattern-maker is therein spiraling off into the
most criminal type of irresponsibilities. What he wants
is surcease from the demands of his position on his
psyche, but he does not translate it so. He translates
his pique at the insufferable strictures of his position, as
revolutionary movements designed to work havoc in the
pattern-systems which he has provided. He orders ten
thousand slaughtered.
Those ten thousand no longer exist to vex him by their
irascibilities. He sees that it is a good way to lessen his
vexations as a common man, enhoused in an aggravating
558
water-sac. So to humor the spirit that is annoyed by
such vexations, because it has not yet attained to its
adult Godhood by expansion, ten thousand times ten
thousand are ordered to be marked out and their water-
sacs slit open. He is destroying the form and su~
stance of the pattern that he has willed.
Still he does not see it, or rather, he is indifferent to it.
CJ[ He has built up a tradition about himself, and about
the pattern which he epitomizes. Inwardly he resents
its cankering usurpations on his humanized caprices.
Having ordered one man killed, and discovered that it
is possible to slay without retributions, he orders ten
thousand "liquidated... He has forgotten the individu-
alistic purpose of human life in the water-sac status.
Resenting his serfdom to the pattern that he has cast, he
seeks escape and freedom by irresponsible destruction.
CJ[ He has become a Governing Monstrosity.
Really, there is little truly monstrous about him.
The crime that he was guilty of, to begin with, was the
crime of usurpation of God powers before he was cos-
mically matured to exercise them.
He got into the mess by offering to do for the individual
man what the individual man should have tried to con-
summate for himself.
He said to the individual man in the beginning: "You
submit yourself to my will, as contained in my Pattern
that promises you the security you d,esire, and I will
protect you, in that I will arrange with ten thousand
other men to swarm to your assistance in emergency and
559
compound-or at least multiply-your strength of re-
. sistance ten thousand times."
If he had withdrawn from the situation when he had
honestly furnished men the Pattern, if he had refused to
let the Pattern become interwoven with his own psyche-
personality, he would have instigated a system which
would truly have been of profit in the world-scene, and
been hailed as deathless benefactor.
If he had said to man: "I adjure you to do thus-and-
such which I have reasoned out as aiding you in your
individual predicament," and shown man how to thus
behave in emergency for himself, he would have escaped
the demands of the system upon himself as a personality.
But vanity would not permit him, in the beginning of
the business, to offer the pattern simply and then step
aside and let men conform to it, practice it, and profit
from it~~
It inflated his ego to have men accredit him as a supra-
individual, to themselves, because he had supplied the
Design for Security that lay in simple assembly of other
human units when a given danger threatened.
He was not actually regarding the welfare of his fellow-
man in the execution of it all.
He was regarding the earthly career of himself.
His viewpoint was intrinsically ego-centric.
He paid the penalty of such egocentricity, without ac-
tuaIIy recognizing-or at least admitting at the time-
that it was egocentricity, by selling himself to his sub-
sequent role as god of his own machine.
560
Few there are who can stand such a test, and success-
fully pass it. The average individual, with an organiz-
ing brain, simply accredits that he must be smarter than
all men because he has been adept in projecting social
patterns, and thereupon credits himself with all other
supernormal qualities.
He runs amuck in lost proportions.
He is a slave to customs which he has instigated himself,
and which he must thereafter serve or receive history's
odium. Always he is thinking of self, self, self! Now
let us consider the ruck of it from man's standpoint:
that is, the standpoint of the follower and not of the
followed~~
561
,:
THE THIRTY-SIXTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
THE THIRTY-SIXTH DISCUSSION
T is slipshod pronouncement to
;:JJl!iii~;,..llmii~"".:;;J declare that governmental or-
ganization in its first forms on
this planet took aspects of one-
man rule, and that any depart-
ures from the kingly office-
that goes so remotely into an·
tiquity - therefore constitutes
Progress. We have no reliable
basis on which to build an argument that the first forms
of government were kingly governments. True, king-
ly forms of government were the first forms of govern-
ment of which we have historical knowledge-or rather,
when history first began to be reliably recorded, the
forms of government then in vogue were generally the
kingly forms, and with a few eccentric exceptions they
continued to be the prevailing forms up to the signing
of Magna Carta and the instigation of the English par-
liament. The eccentric exceptions, of course, were the
democratic Grecian city-states and the rule of the Ro-
man Senate. Because history, as we know it, opens the
story of human affairs with accounts of these kingly
565
,,._,.·
forms, by no means proves that the elevation of kings
in those remote days was synonymous with the appear#
ance of worldly governments. It simply indicates that
history as we know it is deficient in det~ils of human
. . . .
CIVIC origins.
History as we know it today, picks up the first threads
of racial and national affairs among Mediterranean peo-
ples with Egyptian and Babylonian dynasties already
ensconced in power and developed to a complicated
status of monarchal procedure. Such dynasties and pro-
cedures by no means step into existence fully grown,
like Minerva from the head of Jove. They are ever the
results of long sequences of social and political experi-
ments. They give validity to the conclusion that peo-
ples supporting monarchal systems have come to do so
because the nature of their own vicissitudes as racials
has tended to convince them that such systems serve
them with a maximum of advantages and a minimum of
disadvantages in the matter of getting the public busi-
ness transacted and making a permanence of political
stability ~ ~
I submit that despite all the recognized abuses of king-
craft, the monarchal system did hold something of great-
er enhancement to the racials supporting it than did the
eccentric forms I have mentioned, else monarchal sys-
tems would not have been adhered to and returned to
time and time again with such significant regularity.
Such endorsements of a certain system, well-nigh uni-
versal in practice, do not "just happen."
566
Moreover, we are given no license to dismiss the phe-
nomenon with the cynical statement that kingcraft had
its enduring basis in overweening ambition.
Ambition may have inspired the individualto climb into
the kingship but the inception of the system as a system
must have derived from more elemental urgings, or I
might say, cognitions.
Mankind, from its earliest days, must have gone around
the Jurisdictional Cycle many times. Each time, how-
ever, we note that the arc representing kingcraft in that
cycle occupied the longer segment, before the other two
forms were endorsed or embraced-only to prove short
and experimental and give way to kingcraft again.
Now before we go any further, what do we mean by the
Jurisdictional Cycle? We shall meet the term again and
again in the closing chapters of this work, and we shall
want to understand precisely what it covers.
h~~~~Miiitly the Jurisdictional Cycle, we mean this:
the correlated processes of political and
governmental procedure, each one grow-
ing out of the other and by virtue of which
the final form of government so arrived
at, blends back into the form which started-and thus
completes-the cycle.
To be specific, we have seen that there are just three
forms of rulership within governmental function: The
One-Man Dictatorship, the· Party Directorship, and the
Chamber Representation of the Citizen Masses. These,
567
each in a score of phases, comprise all the political juris-
diction exercised over racials or nationals in the earthly
arena~~
It is my contention-and I will presently expound it-
that such jurisdiction proceeds in cycles. The One-Man
Dictatorship produces the Party Directorship, the Party
Directorship produces the Chamber Representation, and
when the Chamber Representation has run its course
and dissipated the virility that created it, it automatically
forces the One-Mari Dictatorship anew;
All of it may be a chasing of the political devil around
the stump, but in the process of the chasing, the masses
of earthly-residing souls do get governed-after a fash-
ion. At least they assume that they are being governed;
predatory groups are held within tolerable bounds, and
man gets his private pursuits accomplished in any given
life~~
In the larger sense, however, we discern a different thing
in process.
The thing that the unlearned man chooses to label Prog-
ress in these matters, may not be progress at all. Going
around a cycle can never be progress. Progress, if such
a thing exists, consists in climbing the spiral of the cycles
in the enhancements of the personally intensified or un-
folded consciousness.
Thus it becomes an absurdity to declare that a political
state tacitly progresses. To achieve progress, the unit
so signified must be in process of moving from one point
or set of conditions, to another point or set of conditions,·
568
and the difference in standards as between the two must
be clearly defined and the point or set of conditions to-
ward which the unit moves, shown to contain improve-
ments. But even the identification of such "improve-
ments" requires a standard by which to judge them as
being improvements, and they can scarcely be recog-
nized as such until the point of the progression-or the
better conditions aspired to-has been reached. Before
· such point has been reached, spiritually speaking, it is
unknowable. It is only knowable by arriving at it and
reacting sentiently to its features. So progress can only
be judged by considering it in retrospect; and before
such retrospect is possible, progress cannot be recog-
nized. Mo:i:eover, who is there to set up the abstract
and arbitrary standard by which the essence of progres-
sion is judged?
To say: "we are progressing,'' therefore, is to speak a
presumption ~ ~
A political state, by such line of reasoning, cannot shift
its position. It is not a unit, but a condition of juris-
diction. The minute it ceases to be one condition of
jurisdiction and becomes another, it ceases to exist.
To digress a moment, for purposes of illustration, con-
sider the United States. In the beginning, this nation
was a series of monarchal provinces. Subsequent to the
war of the Revolution, it became a Constitutional Re-
public. The nation had not made progress. It had sim-
ply ceased being one thing-a series of monarchal prov-
inces-and become another, a Constitutional Republic.
569
"
•
"
'
l.
1 ..
!
i•
f J
With the advent of the Communistic-Hebraic locust
swarm from Europe and Asia in the aftermath of the
World War, and the theft of the Democratic Party by
the Rooseveltian New-Dealers, it ceased being a Con-
stitutional Republic and became a Constitutional Dicta-
torship, camouflaged by the term Democracy. That is,
it became a Dictatorship under which the dictator em-
ployed the constitutional forms of political machinery to
do his dictating successfully. Examined dispassionate-
ly, what truly happened was a change from the Chamber
of Deputies jurisdiction to the Party-Directorship juris-
diction by malice aforethought and deliberate maneuver,
instead of by cycle pattern in the emhracement of result
proceeding from cause. I shall continue this exposition
in a subsequent discussion.
In none of these changes was it the United States that
progressed or degenerated. The nation that has been
the United States from the filling up of the Atlantic sea-
board with colonists, to the overrunning of this new
Land of Canaan by the world's predatory Israelites, has
continued to be the same nation, territorial1y, sociologic-
ally, and economically.
Political forms give way to one another, but progression
of any variety is strictly confined to the unfoldments of
sentient spirit.
570
0 W then, this seems to be the natural order
of movement in the jurisdictional cycle,
when the movement is not one of force
and strategy as in the constitutional usur-
pations of the Jewish New Dealers, and
for quite other purposes than the political: Starting for
the sake of convenience with the One-Man Dictatorship,
we observe-as set forth in our last discussion-that the
one-man ruler cannot endure temperamentally beneath
the burdens or complications of his function. He in-
dulges in excesses of irresponsibility on the one hand,
while on the other it cannot be denied that he projects
a legend about himself that is more enduring than his
flesh and blood. Between excesses in moral laxity or
irresponsibilities, and sacrosanct tradition birthed by his
accomplishments, his function hangs suspended like Mo-
hammed's Coffin.
In order to sustain his position, however, and keep right
and title to that function by some sort of political ex-
pediency, such a dignitary must perforce bring into ex-
istance a group of satellites who are, in their individual-
ized offices, the elongated manifestation of himself.
Thus is the Party born.
It may be, under the monarchal system, a Court. It may
be, under the oligarchic system, a kommissariat. Which-
ever it is, by the nature of its individualized composition
it is bound to have a longevity which the dictator who
brought it into being does not. All men of similar
political beliefs do not die at the same moment. T radi-
571
tions of a personality, capitalized upon by bodies of
surviving satellies to enhance their own positions above
an acquiescent or ignorant populace, may endure with'
directional vitality or political momentum, over a num-
ber of generations.
But the Party always proceeds to actuality from some
evidence of limitation in the first Dictator-Personage ~
(jf Parties, however, have this disadvantage, that they
are not individualized in the sense of spirituai integrity,
as leader-personalities may have spiritual individualities.
(jf There may be as many Parties as there may be tradi-
tions of physically perished personalities to perpetuate.
t;IJ1 Naturally these are bound, over periods of time, to
clash with each other. Thus groups of individuals .as-
cend to directorships as they are successful in winning
the masses to support them, but the groups that have
lost the endorsement of the masses, by no means go
from existence as integrations of individuals upholding
a chosen tradition. They continue in existence as irri-
tants or purifiers of the Party that for the time being has
secured such popular endorsement.
The original one-man rule won the support of the
masses and held it for some outstanding accomplish-
ment or promise to furnish social or military security.
Dividing his burdens, he created from his first satellites
the Party that seeks to preserve the principles that en-
sconced him in power, or the traditions which accumu-
lated through a successful wielding of that power. This
Party, being composed of very mortal and human men,
572
each admittedly without the original leader's attributes,
breeds competition; and out of this competition, in the
absence of strongly individualized leadership, comes one
Party paramount in popular acclaim.
Groups of personalities--good, bad, and indifferent-
generous, altruistic, and privately selfish-knit together
by tradition of some sort, assume to direct the populace
in political, social, and economic procedure according to
a set of vaguely recognized and conceded standards.
But the Jurisdictional Cycle is moving onward.
Just as the original one-man dictator found his burdens
obnoxious and thus created the Party to relieve him,
so the Party in turn ultimately shows signs of internal
confusion and disintegration by the very nature of its
highly individualized composition, and forces relief from
such confusion outside of itself, in turn.
The public says to itself: ''The Party is making its
internal quarrelings and disregarded standards an an-
noyance to us, the masses of the people. After all, we
should have something to say about how we shall be
ruled, and by what dignitaries and fiats. Let us, there-
fore, send agents of our choosing, to deal with the Party
and make its members harken to reason or get back on
the main track of the Principles originally birthing it.
Having the major interests at stake in the civic situation,
our opinions as to this or that are entitled to attention."
fl[ So came the plebeian Party to ancient Rome-in
juxtaposition to the decadent Senatorial party that fol-
lowed in the wake of the Roman tyrants. So came the
573
Commoners' party to the British Isles, in juxtaposition
to the king's party which was personified as the House
of Lords and which perpetuated the traditions of the
English kingship while at the same time acting as
baronial curb upon· that kingship in its excesses.
Still the Jurisdictional Cycle moves onward, and whether
it be Plebeian Party, Commopers' Party or Popular
Front, the time unerringly arrives when the spiritually
unfolding consciousness of the populace eventually de•
dares: "Why do we need to tolerate, or deal with, these
personal exploiters of a tradition? Why should not our
agents do the ruling and become supreme potentates as
a caste, subject at all times to our mass-control?"
Thus comes humanity in any complicating social state,
to the Chamber of Deputies form of government.
One-man dictatorship evolves Party Directorship. Party
Directorship, out of its inevitable malformations,
evolves the Chamber of Agents.
"Aha!" cries the Public. "At last the People have per-
fected the Ideal Form of Government!''
574
h~~G=-ii0'.1 UT have they?
Let us see what operates in practice.
The Chamber of Deputies-or duly
elected agents of the People to pursue cer-
tain approved forms of governing-starts
off with conscientious intentions to serve faithfully as
agents, and conserve the public confidence that has thus
elevated them to their new-found and unmerited powers
in political position.
The masses of the citizens, on the other ,hand, assume
that all further distress as to government has been laid,
and childishly start back to private pursuits. In the
exact ratio that those private pursuits are profitable,
they produce personally-owned wealth that makes the
stronger god of Property. This stronger god of Pro~
erty commands his daily homage. The populace, be-
coming generally. affluent, knows that an instant's re-
laxation in the worship of this new god means swift and
terrible retribution in the form of economic ruin. The
struggle for economic survival being what it is, the God
of Property becomes a more jealous potentate than the
Hebrew Jehovah.
Presently the Deputy-Agents discover a curious in-
difference to their conscientious functions, growing in
the minds of those who elevated them.
"We care little what you do," is the admitted confession,
"so long as you do not infringe upon our worship of
Property, or instigate conditions where our possessions
are not our gods."
575
The Deputy-Agents say: "If that's all the public cares
for our scruples, why should not we too, being men with
human problems and dependents, take care that our
offices be made to profit us, so that we too may possess
properties and worship the common deity?"
Thereat come private agents to the public Deputy-
Agents. They say: "All you need do is vote for a
certain measure, which is not the general public's busi-
ness at all, and you will receive little black boxes through
your backdoors on dark midnights, in which you will
find many golden coins which you may keep."
The bedeviled legislator is shocked at first. Then he
probes a bit and discovers scores of his brother deputies
having the aforesaid little black boxes handed in at their
backdoors on periodic midnights.
"If the public doesn't give a rap," says he finally, "why
need I be so squeamish?"
So he proceeds not to be squeamish.
Presently a thousand private interests are buying a
thousand privileges from ·subverted agent-deputies.
Public office becomes a miasma of corruption. The
whole public welfare starts to degenerate.
Whereupon, rapacious and predatory groups that exist
in every state, or enemies of the republic abroad, say
among themselves: "We have corrupted the public
servants till their nation is wide open for us to permeate
and seize. We can move in and loot every man's prop-
erty and cache of personal wealth, seeing the people
have no buffers against us or protectors to denounce us.
576
So let us get to the pillage at once" ~ ~ ~
The Chamber of Deputies, befouled with corruption, is
in no position to contest such seizure without the dis·
astrous exposure of individuals composing it. The whole
country rocks. People despair. The economic structure
crashes~~
Then with wolves running wild through the sheepflock
of defenseless citizens, the deputy-agents powerless in
the toils of their own defections, some one indignant
citizen raises up his head and his hand and cries in a
ringing tocsin: "STOP!"
Advancing on this signal down the center-aisle of the
nation, this Indignant Citizen mounts the rostrum and
says: "This Chamber has failed us. It has sold us,
body and soul, to our enemies. As many of you as
care to do so, may follow me. For I and a few of my
friends thinking similarly, propose to shovel the whole
wickedness out!"
Turmoil follows-naturally. Perhaps a war is fought.
But from such insurrection arises the Strong Leader
afresh. And because he has saved the People from uni·
versal corruption, he is garlanded with the lright to
dictate to them what the reconstruction shall consist of.
f1f The Constitutional Prerogative has given way to the
One-Man Dictatorship again. Forthwith there is every
prospect that when the burden of his position has be-
come too great for human flesh and blood to bear, his
Party Directorship will succeed him.
There is progress in none of it.
577
There is only the Jurisdictional Cycle, I say, constantly
recurring out of positive and reckonable conditions.
So we should know this phenomenon for what it is, and
no matter under what phase of the Cycle we may cur-
rently be living, look rather for the sociological benefits
which it transmits to our unfolding spirits.
It is our unfolding spirits that do the progressing, and
the standard of such progress is the celestial moral con-
.cept, carrying us straight into the highest Esoterics.
578
THE THIRTY~SEVENTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~ THE THIRTY-SEVENTH DISCUSSION ~
HE STORY of one-man rule is
~!""'U•~~.....J fascinating. It enthralls the
average individual because the
average individual, being only
a partially-developed spirit-or
rather, a partly unfolded spirit
-reads into the single direct-
ing personality the exercise of
most of those not-yet-unfolded
talents which the average individual has not yet brought
into play within his personally-exercised arena of ac-
tivity. Adulation, homage, even worship, is forever
based upon the average individual's inferiority complex.
He desires to perform that which he beholds the adulated
or worshiped personality performing. He wants to
reach out, to stride ahead, and manifest himself after the
pattern of the attained-to talents in the entity that has
thus made him envious. There is nothing base in such
aspirations. It is the system which Holy Spirit has in-
stilled throughout all the octaves of human conscious-
ness by which galvanism to unfold is :motivated. So-
called growth is always prompted by beholding a more
581
f'
~ - ,_
r 1
(
'
; '
r .'
1
,.
unfolded spirit demonstrate his self-discoveries, and thus
realizing the wish-desire to be like him.
When. we speak of an average individual, we mean
of course an individual who complies with the common
mean of unfoldment that most distinguishes the octave
of consciousness in which one finds himself performing.
No group, however, is permitted to be a group, without
having allocated to it, its mentor. Groups, in fact, are
naught else than coagulations of satellites about a
mentor. And a mentor in turn is naught but a spirit
more unfolded in consciousness, and the attributes in
consciousness, than those who for this self-profit have
swarmed about it.
Following this line of exposition, we discover it to be
uniformly true that one-man rule-in its original ex-
hibit-is merely the display of more unfolded talents on
the part of some soul who has made the vital discovery
that he is in truth a Baby God. These talents, epito-
mized, advance for our consideration the one composium
that there is naught to fear in all the universe but the
single Great Law of Retribution-as ye sow, so also
shall ye reap.
This group mentor, we say, is acquiescent to accepting
responsibility. It makes small difference whether he
be selectman of a village, governor of a state, president
of a confederation of states, autocrat, king, or despot.
He has come into the ,realization, consciously or other-
wise, that by functioning as the deciding and ordering
brain for vast masses of men he can
4
extend his own
582
power physically, economcially, or materially; yet it is
also true that in the extension of such power he coaxes
or stimulates the powers in those individuals composing
his satellite-group to unfold themselves. Be that as it
may, the satellites do read into his exercisings the per-
formances of those talents or attributes which they have
not yet recognized as existing in a dormant state within
themselves. They adulate, not him, but their own de-
sires to unfold to the extent to which he has unfolded.
f:lf They say, commonly, that they are willing to follow
such a leader because he ..shows them the way." ...
He does not really show them the way. He really demon-
strates the extent of his prior discoveries that naught
exists in Cosmos to fear excepting the self-suffered re-
sults of one's own acts when they ignore the basic con-
sciousness-unfoldment of the satellites.
This is a realization to which all come ultimately, and as
they come to it, they qualify as mentors to hordes of
lesser unfolded Baby Gods in the actual pathway of
expansion ~ :J:,.'11
·553
~~~~~ E MUST remember this basis of all adula-
tion, and consequently all Followship-
and therefore all worship-as we rea_d and
digest the remaining pages of this work.
(j[ The more unfolded, and/or self-discov-
ered soul "comes back" as we put it, to hold up before
those not so unfolded the possibilities in consciousness-
expansion. His very self-realizations equip him to point
the pathway of similar expansions to those who there-
fore cluster about him for counsel. He discharges his
debt to those who have hitherto helped him in his own
consciousness-unfoldments, in similar and prior pro-
cedures, by serving those who are yet in their divine
infancy~~
This process in performance is the thing which purblind
mankind commonly calls the Structure of Society ~
(j[ There is strictly, of course, no such thing as any
Structure of Society. There is only attainment in de-
gree-unfoldment of consciousness, and envy of such
attainment, one acting and reacting upon the other and
vaguely performing a sort of discipline or self-desired
Pattern throughout and among all those entities con-
tributing to the localized cosmic drama that is being
played. The Leader, therefore, is only the more daring
adventurer in self-discovery of the potentialities of his
own consciousness-and when I refer to leader here, I
do not mean the appointed leader; I mean the leader
who rises to leadership strictly through the exercise of
organizational talent.
584
All others are agents for leadership, though they are not
always thus recognized.
T IS extremely doubtful whether the first
~ft<1'ii~~ indications of such internally-inspired dis-
cipline upon this planet took the form of
the individual discoverer's thus perform-
ing as the solitaire supervisor of his
satellites, and emulation-galvanizer of his own unfold-
ments in others. Calling for the moment on the most
profound esoteric origins to aid in clarifying this point,
it seems to have been a fact that "in the beginning"-
and for that matter, ever since-these more unfolded
mentors have been performers of common attainments
in an octave that gave them, from their common stand-
ing, the aspects of a Clan.
I refer in this to a clan composed of mentors who simply
were members of a higher order of unfolded conscious-
ness and appreciations of their self-realized godhood.
fJr This clan business is, naturally, bedeviling to those of
us who confine our thinking-explorations strictly to the
material essences. We are puzzled as to how, or
wherein, it started, what coagulated its members, why
they should have become conscious of the possibilities
or potentialities in retrograding into the lesser-developed
or unfolded orders, and how contact or influence was
fundamentally negotiated. However, such are esoteric
considerations and slightly outside the encompassments
of this work.
585
We have the evidence of our observations to confirm
that somehow or other the practice came to be tacit and
general. More unfolded agents found ways to slip back
and manifest among those less unfolded. And the exer-
cise of such unfoldments-that is, attributes in demon-
stration-empowered them with authorities whose ef-
fects on their own psyches could not have been wholly
displeasing to them, else they would not have acquiesced
to the system and made it recurrent. It seems to be a
fundamental of Cosmos that no volatile spirit performs
an act that causes it distress or loss. Even in material
self-losing disciplines there is profit-which is why they
are entered upon in otherwise puzzling repetitions..
Somehow or other, mentor spirits discovered gains to
their own psyches in degrading themselves and minister•
ing to those who extolled them as mentors due to their
own lack of unfoldments to the moment. We do not
need to pursue this line of exploration too far. It is
self-evident as to truth, in the conditions of human life
all about us.
Yet these higher-unfolded spirits took common counsel
among themselves as to self-recognitions of their more
advanced conditions, and the clan-or lodge-of men•
tors was created. Of themselves they doubtless com•
prised the degree-attainments in consciousness distin·
guishing-if not identifying-an octave.
In the beginning, therefore, we find them acting more
or less in concert in their mentoring adventures among
the more spiritually inhibited, and so-called Priesthoods
586
were first recognized. Now a word about such Priest-
hoods~~
~~fJ~~TRICTLY speaking, a priest is merely a
spirit that "knows more" .~ ~
(j[ We get the word Priest from the old
Anglo-Saxon "proest"-a derivative of
Latin presbyter-meaning Elder, or Older
in Knowledge. Here again, of course, we have the
mentor or more-unfolded-soul idea, expressed in its ap-
plication to the esoteric or religious activity.
Priests originally were those who were acknowledged as
"knowing more" or "being elders in knowledge" of the
laws and processes maintaining in the higher octaves of
unfolded consciousness. They were those who had
"retrograded" into octaves they had already experi-
enced and profited-from, in order to aid the unfoldments
of those more ignorant or inhibited, leaving aside for the
moment the item of their motivations or compensations
for so doing.
These priestly mentors over many groups, or coagula-
tions of groups, when considered as performers of an
advanced octave, l:;iecame known as a hierarchy. But
here is the important point-
When the members of such a hierarohy first began
demonstrating in this so-called physical or earthly octave,
they really did know more than those whom they had
essayed to mentor.
There were no forms or rituals about their performance.
587
',--\
',,
' ~----
fJf Forms and rituals are ever the outward, dramatic,
spectacular means adopted when a given clan of would-
be mentors have lost or have not attained to their ac-
credited powers or knowledge and therefore substitute
wordy or dram~tic hocus-pocus to take its place and re-
tain an unhallowed hold upon groups of gullible satellites
without the discernment to know the real thing from the
spurious legerdemain.
The original priesthood must have comprised an octave
of baby gods who actually did know more and were
equipped with the unfoldments to demonstrate it on any
legitimate occasion. And there must have been a suffi-
cient number of them to supply one of such priestly
mentors for each group--or such numbers or combina-
tions of numbers as their capabilities or attributes were
capable of servicing.
If we want to a.ccept the hypothesis that Life in the hu-
man form came to this planet in a great migration from
some other planetary system, we must accredit that one
guiding personality could not have been able to service
all the myriads of inhibited souls who thus swarmed
here. They would, each one, be limited as to function
by the circumscriptions of the demands of the satellites
upon their time and attention.
This in itself would indicate that myriads of souls would
necessitate groups of mentors in numbers. These groups
of mentors, being of similar cosmic unfoldments, would
be attracted into one another's company in obedience
to the great cosmic law that Like always attracts Like.
588
C] Thus, in the beginning, it seems to have been a fact
that a great Cosmic Dynasty did exist, from which this
hierarchy of elders-who-knew were-in the earthly sense
-·-recruited. And, further borrowing from Esoterics for
the moment, it seems to be certain that these first rulers
among Those Who Knew by reason of being Older, ap-
plied their counsel-talents to all phases and aspects of
consciousness functioning on this terrestrial allocation.
(jf That is to say, they not only counseled-and there-
fore directed-in spiritual matters, but in matters of
worldly residence concerned with the social and material.
fJf Undoubtedly this esoteric fact would explain where
humanity's early ideas of gods and goddesses 'came
from ~ ~
Gods and goddesses, the whole gamut of mythology,
were doubtless derived from traditional memories of a
time when beings of a higher degree of unfoldment exer-
cised their incarnated wisdom in all common aspects of
mundane residence-not only the higher-octave spiritual
but the materialistic and quasi-political as well.
But this thing happened-.
As individual human beings or their satellites profited by
the emulations of their unfoldments without being com-
petent to graduate utterly out of this mundane octave,
the retrograde incarnations of these higher beings were
not so recurrently demanded by the earthly social cir-
cumstance. These higher beings withdrew more and
more from the earth-arena and left it to the different
gradations of unfolding personalities to spell them in
589
~1
/ f
!
I
.1
. i
I
cl
·~ !
their more efficient wisdoms. ·And as no man learns
more about government than he who aspires to rule, or
actually does rule, so leadership mentoring began to be
a development right here in the earthly arena itself and
without the more urgent calls on the higher-octave
hierarchy that had originally been necessary.
Right there the notion of one-man leadership was
evolved and was demonstrated.
rn~~~~ AKE note, however, that no one man has
ever succeeded in mentoring, or taking
rulership over the entire earth-scene, but
the Christ-and that only happened be-
cause He was cosmically equipped along
the hierarchy lines I have previously suggested. Un-
doubtedly the first universal mentors to the People of
the Great Migration on this planet were all of the con-
sciousness-unfoldments of the Christ. But these in their
virginal essence have long since disappeared-that is to
say, the necessity for their common incarnation has no
longer been of real cosmic moment.
Society progressed in its social and political recognitions
to a point where lieutenants and understrappers from
lower octaves of consciousness than the original
Chrystos but higher than the common mean of earth-
humanity, could substitute in practical function. And
somewhere along the line, representatives of this inter-
mediate caste made this discovery: When given groups
of volatile and sentient spirits pool their potentialities
590
r
for action in any particular, but disregard the mental
diversities that must otherwise exercise in the propor-
tion of their numbers, they multiply their powers in
exact ratio to their numbers and in the degree to which
,they relinquish to the one controlling Mind.
Here is a truth and a law too stupendous to be read care-
lessly. It is what we may call the Law of Alignment.
C.JI Two men equipped with ten brains will duplicate ten
times the powers of the one.
Ten men equipped with, or controlled by, five brains
out of the ten, will double their capabilities for perform-
ance-assuming five eccentric diversities in exercise ~
C.JI Ten men equipped with, or controlled by, the brain
of one, will attain unto achievements that represent the
compensatioris of the ten men accruing to the one.
Mentality .in whatever aspects we discern it, always
means individuality. Individuality always means di-
versity or squandering or duplication of effort. ·
In the exact ratio that mentality in supervision is
simplified as to exercise, the effects of the effort will
show converse increase.
One directing brain in the head of a chieftain controlling
or supervising a tribe of one hundred individuals, will
consummate profits to each individual a hundredfold
over what the hundred brains could consummate for a
hundred separate personalities exercising individually.
C.JI The same principle works if the census of a kingdom
be a hundred millions, instead of the barbaric tribe of the
hundred~~.
591
The leader says to the hundred or the hundred million:
..You have a hundred, or a hundred million, bodies and
will-powers to consummate. But in the ratio that you
let your individualities lead you into diverse pursuits,
you emasculate your powers of attainments. If now,
therefore, you let my one brain epitomize all the exer-
cising mentalities of the horde, you shall each of you be
a hundred, or a hundred thousand, times as successful
or mighty as you would be, each alone."
In other words, one brain in direction of a group means
unity, concentration of purpose and effort, lack of con-
fusion, lack of duplication of effort.
Two brains, means two activating will-powers, friction,
irritation of temperament each with the other, the po-
tential power therefore cut precisely in half.
The idea of One God at the apex of all the universe,
doubtless has come from the universal recognition of this
Law of Alignment: that because there is perfect order
in the natural universe, therefore there cannot possibly
be more than one Will-Mentality exercising over mani-
fested creation.
Human beings in the earth-state octave have not yet
arrived at the qualification of consciousness where they
can accredit whole hierarchies of Will-Mentalities so
perspicacious and discriminating as to outcomes from is-
sues that they can align their mentalities to acknowledg-
ments of flawless results from positive causations-re-
taining their individualities and yet universaHy concur-
ring in problematical denouement, even hypothetically
592
rendered. H human beings could approximate anything
like it, they would no longer be confined to the status
of the human-incarnate or discarnate-but would as-
cend into such hierarchy memberships and demonstra-
tions, each in his own right.
Jl~~!-~iiiiiiii.M E that as it may, the arbitrary supervision
of the one Will-Mentality has always been
the synonym for Minimized Disorder in
the affairs or consummations of men. And
in the exact ratio that the need for Mini-
mized Disorder has been urgent up over the millenniums,
one-man spiritual, military, or civic directorship, has
been the unerring product.
Whimsical human wits delight .in prating of the
"beauties" of democracy, communism, socialism, even
of constitutional chamber•of-deputies government; but
all of them are philosophic playthings in the face of
factual emergency or lethal dilemma; Then the Law
of Alignment operates automatically.
The Athenian Democracy relinquished its· mob-jury
powers to Themistocles or Pericles when threatened by
the Aegean Confederation. Imperial Rome bowed to
the personal accomplishments of Julius Caesar.
When a papal monarch had sabotaged Britain, a nation
of burghers concentrated their individual postulations in
Cromwell. French mobs had a Reign of Terror-but the
single directing genius of Napoleon cleaned up the mess
and restored order so that human life could function.
593
fJl In the late world w'ar, the Unified Command under
Foch, spelled the commencement of real victories won.
«J[The Russian Jews installed socialistic communism;
but Lenin, and then Stalin, said what the mass thought
of all Communists was to become in aggressive action.
fJI The Congress of the United States the other day put
through· a Bill literally making the President supreme
dictator of this constitutional republic in the event of
war-which was the tacit admission that a constitution-
al republic in event of martial crisis was an impracticali-
ty and could not be trusted; therefore and thereby negat-
ing the fact of true constitutionalism at a stroke.
The Law of Alignment is the Law of Social Power.
In the partially unfolded status of sentient beings in this
octave, filled with two billion diverse personalities and
therefore mental confusions, there can be no uniformity
of direct and infallible reasonings from a given cause to
a perceived result. So Will-Mentalities are negated and
to a degree abolished or disregarded. Perhaps the better
term would be, surrendered.
The one brain of the Master-Mentor, be he spiritual
priest of the Chrystos pattern or diabolical angel of the
Pit like Lenin, becomes the repository for as many acting
wills as there are units in the body politic. Therefore,
whoever gives an order to. one other man, and has it
obeyed without remonstrance, is in that slight degree a
King. This Law of Will-Mentality Ali~ment, we must
acknowledge when we come to consider the merits or de-
merits of the One-Man Rule in political conduct.
594
THE THIRTY~EIGHTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
~ THE THIRTY-EIGHTH DISCUSSION ~
~i~r~~~~:it!f
~UFFICIENT ink has been used
to float a dozen battleships-
particularly in this .country
since the American Revolution
-in seeking to prove that no
form of earthly government is
viler or more to be avoided
than One-Man Government as
personalized in the Old World's
kings and queens. For a hundred and fifty years jingo-
ism to such effect has run rampant in these United
States. Small children are shaken out of their cradles,
dropped into school-seats, and drilled like little robots
in the proposition that all men are created equal, that
they have certain inalienable rights, that among those
rights are life, liberty, and the pursuit of so.-called
democracy. In time they actually accredit this non-
sense. They can even be persuaded in their maturer
years to go to war and die for it. No one stops to ques-
tion whether or not it is true.
The cold-brained analyst of history, no less a good
American on that account, knows that One-Man rule
597
j
--~
, .
f
,, ~
.,
I
l'--1 i
('
, ~ J
/
~ i ~..
is no better and no worse than the temperament and
character of the one man who does the ruling.
But that is not all he knows.
He knows that either a Constitutional Monarchy, or a
Republic, is only as good a government as the calibre,
honesty, and capabilities, of the people's representatives
called up to conduct it.
This business of damning all one-person governments
simply because the arbitrary power is concentrated irt
one pair of hands is truly as nonsensical as the favorite
American political pastime of thinking that five hun-
dred and thirty-one nincompoops, brought under one
roof as a Congress, are thereby endowed through such
congregation with the executive or legislative wisdom
of five hundred and thirty-one Solomons.
The United States-or its forerunning colonies-broke
away from Great Britain because a fool sat on the throne
of the British Isles. It was the fool the colonists wanted
to be rid of, but because he happened to be a king they
worked up a lot more independence-lather among the
brethren getting them to insurrect against kings in
general ~ :±..•
The assumption that all kings are vile, merely because
now and then a throne contains a lout, is as eccentric
and callow a line of reasoning as adulating a chamber of
deputies merely because it is a chamber of deputies and
can thereby do no wrong.
Both of these ideas are matters of premeditated educa-
tion. And as usual, it is found to be to some special
598
clique·s or bloc·s surreptitious advantage to have the
education thus propounded.
A nation can be made to adulate anything, providing
its citizenry is seized young enoµgh and trained to think
that the wisdom of its elders to certain ends and proposi-
tions surpasses any wisdom that has ever been r&
vealed~~
Viewed academically and dispassionately, what the
early colonists did was to fight themselves free from the
arbitrary and whimsical fiats of the king and the king·s
party in England. And in place of the one man, who
at the time obviously needed his brains x-rayed, they
immediately set over themselves a hierarchy of political
overlords ~ ~
Instead of freeing themselves from the tyrannies of one
man, they founded a political system under which they
eventually arrived-in the year 1938-at the suzerainty
of five hundred and thirty-one men, every mother's son
of whom is esoterically confident of his eccentric abilities
to boss the whole bunch.
592
f2~a~~ E are faced. in this prospect, with this chal-
lenge in logic: If one-person rule is so odi-
ous, why do we not kick the Jehovah of
our religion off the Throne of the Uni-
verse? Why do we castigate in our political
system exactly the solitaire rulership that we hold to be
the apex of spiritual idealty in our scheme of celestialty?
To be consistent, a people who go in for chamber of
deputy rulership in their worldly institutions-to the
point of fetish-should declare religiously for a divine
panthology. Let there be .many celestial dieties, and a
senate and house of representatives of the gods.
But no, the idea is abhorrent.
W~. admit of the arbitrary ruler at the head of the Uni-
verse, yet when we come to the same notion brought
down into political materialty, it is suppressive and
archaic~~
Account for this inconsistency, we cannot, excepting
that the Jewish Bible-and our parents-have TOLD
us that there is but one God at the head of the universe
and we had better believe it or land in eternal T ophet.
We do not fancy landing in eternal T ophet, and so we
do not argue.
We believe in the One God.
If we choose to appeal to logic, the only way that we
can prove up one God as being at the head of the uni-
verse, is by noting that the universe is a scheme of
miraculous Balance and in our earthly observation we
attribute the exercise of Balance, or Law and Order, to
600
the arbitrary dictates of the solitaire intellect.
Twenty men·considering a process, dictate twenty opin-
ions about it, with twenty subsequent confusions.
If there are no confusions in the natural or religious uni-
verse, therefore there must be but a single Divine Brain
running things.
Such is our postulate.
That a thousand-or ten thousand-exquisitely-un-
folded Oversouls might all think alike, never occurs to
us. The Jewish religion says that even to entertain
such a thought is a species of blasphemy. We fear the
penalties from blasphemy and so we do not think it ~
(j[ The One God reigns supreme.
But for any one god to reign supreme in the mortal
political sense would be anathema to American tradi-
tional institutions as set up by the forefathers.
Our logic is chaotic.
Our thinking is the product of what processes have been
drilled into our infant brains to follow, while in plastic
state at school.
601
,
I
.'
I
l"i'\'JJ~K~~ OW I am not arguing for one-man rule, as
the best rule for humankind and over
mortal-political institutions. I am calling
attention to the fact that we in America
have few ideas upon the subject of what
is best in government that are obtained by analytical
thinking and cool logical deductions.
One-man rule, I repeat, is only as meritorious or per-
nicious as the spiritual unfoldment and quality of con-
sciousness of the man who heads, or dictates, the eccen-
tricities of his particular governmental system.
To arrive at an understanding of one-man rule, how-
ever, we must consider the aspects in which it commonly
exercises ~ ~
All one-man rules are not the same.
\Ve have three-and perchance four-aspects of it in the
mundane arena.
First, we have the Tyrant. Second, the Autocrat. Third,
the Dictator. Fourth-if we choose to include it-either
the Absolute or Constitutional Monarch.
The average citizen exclaims at this: "My goodness, is
there such difference?''
As a matter of fact, there is every difference. The only
thing they have in common is the single-unit concept
of executive performance.
If you have read my book "Behold Life"-and I sin-
cerely trust that you have done so, in order to gain a
balanced digest of what this earthly miasma is all about
-you will recall that from page 295 to 326 I gave you
602
a comprehensive analysis of the four types of ruler-
ship, each distinguished from the other. Assuming,
however, that you have not read the book, let me sum-
marize them thus-
First, the Tyrant is the absolute master-the despot.
He is the one who exercises authority, lawfully or un-
lawfully, who rules oppressively or cruelly as his per-
sonal whim may dictate, who exercises arbitrary power
without legal warrant or any consulting of those in-
volved as subjects.
Second, we have the Autocrat.
We get the title from the two Greek words "autos" and
"kratos" meaning Self and Strength.
An autocracy is that system of government-again pla-
giarizing from myself for the moment-wherein the
strong-willed leader, or the leader relying on self-
strength, contrives to abrogate strict jurisdiction unto
himself over all branches and divisions of government..
He makes himself the general dominating head over
each, in commission as well as effect, unifying all depart-
ments of the public service through the interlocking
holding company that is his personal self.
Third, we have the Dictator.
The term Dictator comes from the Latin "dictatus"-
to say or to propose. And that is precisely what your
modern dictator does, and not much more.
A dictatorship is a system wherein the strong will of a
resolute leader-soul dominates the character of the work-
ings of either a democracy, a republic, or a constitutional
603
monarchy, and· prescribes-and insists on policies being
enacted into statutory law-which shall align with his
capricious or studied measures to preserve his person,
his office, or his political psychology, in the public
esteem. He dictates the Nature of the policies. If de-
partments or offices of orderly government demur, his
power to enforce such dictation rests on his appeal,
through his personal popularity, to the whole body of the
citizens· ~ .~
Fourth, we have the Absolute or Constitutional
Monarch ~. ~
The reason why we put a question mark after him as
belonging in the category of the one-,man rulers is be-
cause he is bound to be more or less a figure of chance-
chance of lucky birth into the royal line-and relies for
his authority upon a political system already established.
tJf Such a luckily-born monarch is the public sovereign,
but his office is circumscribed. He is really influenced
by a body of ministers, with his authorities and pre-
rogatives described and limited in advance by expres-
sions or acquiescences of the popular will set down
officially in writings and subscribed to by all parties-
ruler and ruled.
It might be stated that a Monarchy is almost a republic,
only that rulers are perpetual in their occupancy of the
public offices so long as they evidence good behavior and
do not transgress arbitrary bounds.
The expressions of the popular will, as to what shall
compose government and in what form it shall be ad-
604
ministered by such perpetual officeholders, is termed a
Constitution ~ ~
'4-2~~~parj ERE we have four types of single-headed,
one-~xecutive government. So, when
anyone declares unlearnedly that one-man
government is bad, it truly should be up
to such a critic to identify which type or
role of one-man government he means. Caligula and
Stalin are prototypes of tyrants. Pericles and Mussolini
are prototypes of autocrats. Hitler and Roosevelt are
prototypes of dictators. As for the constitutional mon'."
archs, the Old World abounds with so many of them
that we do not need to refer to them specifically.
Today, in America, we are having a perfectly silly and
childish pother as to whether or not Roosevelt aspires to
make himself dictator, or whether John L. Lewis of the
Red-Jewish Labor movement will make himself dictator,
or whether out of the ruck of all this political blither and
bedlam, the ultimate dictator shall be Pelley of the
Christian Vigilante Silvershirts.
All of it is academic, superficial, revelatory of the cir-
cumscriptions of our civic terminology.
Any man who dictates the political policies of our na-
tion-or any nation-is a Dictator!
He m<!y say to a legislative chamber of deputies or to a
populciiee: "Do you approve of the policies I recommend
for your welfare?" They may respond: "We certainly
do!'' and keep him in office-a process known as a
605
plebiscite when resorted to; They may respond: "We
certainly do not!" and turn him out in favor of someone
else~~
It is one-man rulership while it lasts, and it is Dictator-
ship in essence. Moreover, it is usually the procedure
in all constitutional republics or democracies, whether
the inhabitants concede it or not.
The list of Dictators in American affairs is formidable:
Thomas Jefferson was thus a Dictator.
Andrew Jackson-"Old Hickory"-was a Dictator.
Abraham Lincoln was a Dictator.
Grover Cleveland was a Dictator.
Mark Hanna, Thomas Platt, Uncle Joe Cannon-all
these were Dictators.
Theodore Roosevelt, while he was President, was one of
the·sturdiest Dictators of the lot.
On the evening in which this chapter of this hook is
written, Franklin D. Roosevelt is Dictator over the whole
American Commonwealth.
Why?
Because a Dictator is only the man-'-usually the execu~
tive-·-who dictates, out of his own sagacity or the
sagacity of the counsellors he has gathered about him,
what the policies for a nation in its civic life, are to be.
(jf Today our people are . grossly confusing the word
Dictator with Tyrant, or even Autocrat.
The reason they fight the misnomer of Dictat'O'r, and
the system they imagine he represents, is that they re-
sent that one m,an, out of his eccentricities or caprices,
606
should acquire the police power to tell. them how and
when they shall work, who they shall work for and at
what wages, what they shall read, how much time they
$hall have for work and play and sleep, and at precisely
what hour they shall turn the public lamps off and go
into physical sleep.
The great Jewi~h oligarchy of constitutional usurpers
comes to the shores of the United States, prescribes all
these aggravating circumscriptions, calls it academically
a Democracy, and through a byplay on terms, works a
public support for its psychopathics that .grows to a
fanaticism. Thus are men beguiled by words.
Al:'2J~'i.3 F COURSE, the most erudite of ClVlC
analysts concedes that it is bad for the wel-
fare of a people to have the public weal
dependent from day to day on the mer-
curial moods of some solitare and arbitrary
chief. C.lf The old colonists, I say, did not take arms
against a kingly syste~ half so much as they took up
arms against a royal bigot. If the British royal line had
spawned a brainy, tolerant, human-nature-wise states-
man, in 1776, instead of a bumptious ass who resented
infringement on fancied divine prerogatives, there might
never have been a War for American Independence and
consequently a United States of America.
The trouble with a monarch in a dynastical system is,
that the populace must take the incompetent with the
capable, the statesman with the bigot, the solon with
607
"
f
the nincompoop. The royal line is a Blind Poke. A
people must prosper or suffer according to whatever
character comes out.
The colonists of the West refused to shoot political
craps longer with Nature and Luck. If sobeit they drew
a dud, in the matter of a ruler, in at least four years
time they wanted a way to ditch him.
So they went the whole way into antithesis and said:
''Let us abolish the dynastical system altogether. Let us
go hither and yon among the citizenry and pick whom-
soever seems to have natural qualities for leadership."
C.Jl In a way, it was the worst possible alternative, be-
cause in casting aside the royal-line structure altogether
they were likewise abolishing for all time the buffer
between themselves and vast public rascality that
dynasties from time immemorial have ever provided.
Meaning this-
In every state of society with or without pretensions to
organization, there are ever two elements: The con-
structive and the reactionary, the stable and the
predatory. Human nature since the Year One has al-
ways spawned its burglars, chiselers, and parasites
whose philosophy is: ..Only fools work!"
When on a large scale these predatory and parasitical
blocs encounter a dynasty, they tneet with a stabilized
obstruction. The permanent king realizes at once-if
he has any capabilities toward kingcraft at all-that
to permit this bloc to infiltrate into his kingdom means
the wreck of its prosperity and the undermining of his
608
throne. Having arbitrary power,· he brings it to book.
f] "You are forbidden to do this or that!" he orders it,
and should it fail to obey, he ejects or imprisons those
who compose it.
The king, by thus protecting his throne against such
malevolent and subversive influences, likewise protects
the fortunes of his subjects.
Under chamber-of-deputy rule-a Constitutional Re-
public if you please-the buffer must be absent.
It becomes to no one man's advantage to arrest or re-
strain the predatory bloc. In fact, the predatory bloc
may "get" to the sectional representative, grease his
palm with coins, compromise him morally, loan him
funds, finance his campaigns.
Thereafter he is agent.
Multiply such surreptitious corruption as many times as
there arelegislators, and a country is undone!
The time will come, and not far distant, when the peo•
ple of the erstwhile republic that was the United States
will awaken to the fact that thus have the Jewish ele•
ments operated to promote with mad hysteria the
Democratic Idea.
Five hundred and thirty-one representatives of sectional..;.
isms in the Congress are thinking only of the interests
of their sections~ or their constituents in each section.
No one of them can think of the good of the whole, as
the king thinks because he represents the whole.
The predatory, parasitical, corrupting Jew knows that
a country without a king-unless it be a Jewish king
609
'~
-- ~'
;--...i
:J
J
, I
'j
'· .
,.·
controlled by his racial elders-and childishly trifling
with the idealism of Democracy, is ·'.wide open" to his
clandestine control of duress brought upon individuals..
C] So a constitutional republic loses in this regard-and
a· very ugly loss-in the exact ,ratio that. a monarchy
gams ~ ~
~~~~~NDERSTAND me, by no means am I dar-
ing to assert that nations whose form of
rule is monarchal are automatically im-
mune from assailments by . cliques or
blocs-racial or political-whose nature is
predatory and therefore corruptive. If such argument
were sound to such degree, no. monarchy would exhibit
any predatory and corruptive element ensconced be-
neath its rule. Even a schoolboy-glance at political his-
tory over the past hundred years-.and no longer-.-indi-
cates. how absurd must be such contention. It is be:-
cause of this fact that I pl<lcec:I the question mark or
qualification against the constitutional monarchy as
falling within the first classification of One-Man Rule.
Truth to tell, constitutional monarchies as the western
world· knows them today are more properly exhibited
for the student's examination in the classifications of
Party Rule or Chamber of Deputies Rule. While one
man, the king~ heads them nominally, the real ruling is
done by the king's party in his name, or by the parlia-
ment, which is a compromise in executiveship between
the king's party and the people's party:
610
_j
In declaring that the people have a buffer against preda-
tory and corruptive elements in the personification· of
the dynasty, I am treating strictly with Absolute Mon-
archy. And there are almost no major Absolute Mon-
archies left on earth today.
The last one disappeared with the fall of the Romanofs.
Even the Mikado of Nippon can no longer be classed as
an Absolute Monarchy, since the Four Elder Statesmen
and the Nipponese Diet qualify him more expertly as the
constitutional ·monarch under the terms· set forth
already. Some of the petty States of native India and
politically inconsequential sections of the Near East, still
maintai,n kingcraft forms that are absolute monarchies,
but most of them are generally regarded as archaic~
England, Franee, the Confederate German States up to
the times of Frederick the Great, Italy, Greece, and the
Balkan principalities, all have known subtle or open
alteration in character from absolutism to constitutional
limitation. China within this generation has gone the
same route. Russia was not given time to go the route
but was altered in a twelve-month, drastically and tragi-
cally, from one to the other somewhat after the program
of 1789 in France.
Politically illiterate humankind delights to advance the
argument that such changes typify Progress, that the
Rule of the People has something sacrosanct and there-
fore divine about it, that in accomplishing freedom from
the supervision of absolute monarchy there has been
distinct ethical achievement by the race. as a spiritual
6ll
species. At the risk of seeming insufferably dogmatic,
I assert that nothing of the sort is true.
Absolute monarchies in our recent social world have
tottered and collapsed-.or altered into constitutional
monarchies-because they have affected to exercise the
very buffers between populace and predatory bloc that
I am making the substance of my argument.
So long as they personalized such buffer effectively, they
resolutely endured. When they began to relax vigilance
and disregarded the unceasing and assiduous borings of
the predatory and parasitical element, the underpinnings
of their thrones showed signs of decay.
This brings us again to a consideration of the Jews.
At the risk of seeming to exhibit a certain fanaticism on
the subject of Judah in our modern w-0rld, I say that no
work of this kind can be true or comprehensive without
mentioning the Jews for precisely what they are: a
strange, psychopathic, and bastardly aggregation of in-
trovert races coagulated by the interest of common racial
and theological distinctions, gradually accomplishing
their spraddle over all the other nations and peoples of
the planet by a carefully-thought-out technique under
the aggressive direction of a rabbinical hierarchy.
I successfully submit my argument to challenge when
I say that as far back as human historical archives carry,
every people or every set of nationals have been called to
contend with, succumb to, or withstand this peculiarly
disintegrating racial influence.
Back over a score of Jurisdictional Cycles we come upon
612
this predatory-parasitical element labeled Set-un, or the
People of the Spirit of Disorder in Governments.
The word Satan is a straight-line derivative from such
label !.(# ~
It constitutes an exhibit of the basic principle of all vi-
bration underlying or effecting Nature: Positive and
Negative forces operating one upon the other and pro-
ducing action and reaction.
The Jews as individuals are not to blame f~r this, any-
more than fire should be held up to odium as fire in that
unharnessed or circumscribed it consumes materials of
combustible character that may be exposed to it.
Judah as a recognized unit of the human race, identified
by certain non-constructive ethics, is obviously called
to play the role of butcher-bird among .the starlings of
Aryan humanities.
Viciously enough, the aggressions and introvert aspira-
tions of such unit, to gain any appreciable exercise at
all, must camouflage themselves with antithesis or they
would immediately be recognized and repulsed whereso-
ever they essayed to operate.
So we forever behold such aggressions and unhallowed
or non-constructive aspirations proclaimed as Progress,
Liberty-Fraternity-Equality,-three terms, incidentally,
that are individually in combat with each other-Gov-
ernment of the People, For the People, and By the Peo-
ple, the Rights of the People to Govern Themselves.
All such academic hocus-pocus appeals basically to the
vanities or envies of the down-trodden or seemingly un-
613
derprivileged, therefore are the masses easily bestirred
to exercise their numerical superiority and establish
mediocrity as the norm of rulercraft instead of evolved
or unfolded capability fundamentally expressed in true
aristocracy ~ ~
mEm~DEPT investigators of Judah and Judah's
ageless program-and they are many since
the dramatic assertion of the Nazi princi-
ple in Germany-uniformly discern with a
sort of inexorable pessimism that so wide-
spread and basic have the spurious social instructings of
this introvert people become, that they have reached an
unholy blending into the very traditions and moral struc-
tures of modern races.
For instance, no one bethinks to challenge the fall of
kingcraft and the rise of republicanism as perhaps not
being social or political progress at all, but merely a play
on words and vanities in order to render whole nationals
vulnerable to parasitical disintegration.
A Fourth of July orator arises and fans the air with
rampant jingoisms about Freedom! Artful references
to the Land of the Free and Home of the Brave will fer-
ment such an hysteria in the emotions of underprivileged
hearers-who of course, being in life for discipline, par-
ticularly desire to escape it-that he will have his ros-
trum torn from beneath him and be carried from the
field on ranks of willing shoulders.
The true statesman, possessing analytical faculties earn-
614
ing him such designation, apprecia:1
tes without either
cynicism or spiritual lament that while the world-state
endures there can never be any such thing as Freedoro.
The very essence of social organization implies some as-
pect of surrender of individual liberties to the welfare of
the whole. Already I have treated extensively of this,
in pages preceding. But the tocsin of it infallibly serves
to scrape up homage and followship for hirn .who
utters it ~ ~
Judah•s Ageless Program takes full and mature note of
this, and upon it as a basis, erects its gigantic and suc-
cessful deceit. Mediocrity is persuaded to eliminate
aristocratic capability and enthrone its own caprices-
which must ever be childish and therefore controllable
caprices by the bloc so agitating them. The weaknesses,
never the strengths, of absolute hereditary monarchies
are castigated till the populace is worked to the proper
frenzy for their demolition. "Glorious" revolutions are
inspired-which are not glorious at all, but artfully
sordid and hypocritically baleful. All of them run an
identical cycle. Having accomplished the secret designs
of the projectors-that is, having destroyed the buffers
between people and predatory clique which the absolute
monarchy offers, else revolution would never have be.,.
come of moment at all-the surreptitious revolution-
makers peg the overthrow of forms by violence by call-
ing in the Abolute Military. A Napoleon is "backed,.
by these artisans in emotion, and violence is directed by
him to subdue violence. The Predatory Clique 1s es-
615
~
i~.-.·...;c-
.
.
~···:.
tablished in the saddle-if not openly political then
financial and economic-.-the people exchange one poten-
tate with a single set of weaknesses and faults but gen-
erally antagonistic to the race-parasites, for a dozen, a
hundred, or a thousand ward-heeler overlords, cor-
ruption is made universal among these but of necessity
secret, and when through it the State has reached pros-
tration ofits resources, the Strong Man in the personage
of an absolute ruler must emerge again on the simple
principle of the survival of society. This ruler, be he
designated as tyrant, despot, autocrat, or dictator, finds
ways to ruthlessly extinguish the predatory-parasitical
element and the grandiose process repeats.
Again I dare to say, there is Progress in n<;me of it.
Again I emphasize, Progress is not achieved by round-
ing either a circle or a cycle.
The thing that is achieved is a better quality of spiritual
consciousness in the individual, as the individual is borne
upward in this somewhat circular pattern as though he
were walking upon the cuttings of an upright screw ~
f]f It goes without saying that this is the phase of the
Jurisdictional Cycle which we are seeing occur in these
fraught years in Hitlerian Germany, and to a lesser
measure in Italy and Russia.
It is likewise the irrefutable destiny for the United States,
whether we approve of the prospect or not.
True statesmen have to be first of all, philosophers-
or perhaps I might better describe them, social scien-
tists. Their true patriotism is the greater altruism of
616
seeing the Ultimate Unfoldments of their particular peo-
ple, not practicing slavish adulations to non-understood
traditions ~ ~
Such distinctions, of course, antagonize the rank and
file of the sentimental for the moment. They make
them exclaim amongst themselves: "Then our Ameri-
can Experiment is a failure!..
They are antagonized, however, not by the assertions of
the obvious, but by an enforced necessity for recog-
nizing that perchance the obvious is true.
As for the American Experiment being a failure, we
must first show ourselves erudite enough to concede
that the United States never was an experiment to begin
with. There again we have been led astray by plati-
tudinous deceits that a baleful racial influence· might
proceed to advantage.
The political expansion of the original western-world
colonization has been naught but the cycle aspect of an
orderly and inevitable process in the denouement of the
social-organization idea.
Sentiment may make such contention reprehensible but
sentiment cannot unseat the stern law of Fact.
617
-,
, - -
._ /
~~~~~~NE-MAN Rule makes for concentration of
efficiency in- the transaction of the public
business only to the degree that the nomi-
nated executive is first_ intelligent and
efficient-·-that is, personally competent-
in his unfolded character or quality of consciousness.
So it is again puerile to call Efficiency an unalterable
characteristic of tyranny, autocracy, or dictatorship.
Generally it is exercised to some degree, however, else
the tyrant, autocrat, or dictator does not keep his place.
fJf The more dependable benefit of one-man rule upon a
populace is this feature of enforced automatic protection
from the predatory-parasitical element that every minute
of every hour of every day·is seeking to innoculate the
Body-Politic with corruption and disintegration.
The tyranny, the autocracy, the dictatorship, or the ab-
solute monarchy, may cause the populace to suffer in
the instance of the individual by abolition of certain
rights in self-expression generally considered essential
to spiritual unfoldment, but it does make for stability of
civic organization.
The throne of the Romanofs was the most secure throne
in Europe for the very reason that its czar's rule was
absolute. It took a major world war and an orgasm of
the most revolting barbaric violence to unseat him ~
fJf It was the very security of this throne because of its
absolutism that brought such a terrific concentration of
predatory-parasitical powers upon it. Furthermore, it
was taking advantage of propitious world conditions
618
that wrought the Romano£ downfall, not essential
weaknesses within itself.
Naturally I would not have my reader conclude from
this, that I am agitating for the czaristic type of ruler<-
craft as the perfect type, or that I hold it in superiority
over the forms exercising in differentiated countries,
particularly our own.
I am simply examining fundamentally the outstanding
advantages and State increments deriving from the One-
Man Type of Rule, that we may understand why hu-
manity inevitably reverts back to it periodically, and
why it covers a longer segment of each cycle than the
rule of the Party or the Chamber of Deputies.
Now let us consider more minutely the disadvantages of
this civic phenomenon and observe their concretions in
the rise to arbitrary authority of the Party or the Con-
stitutional Republic, Democracy, or Monarchy....
619
THE THIRTY-NINTH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN - LAW
THE THIRTY-NINTH DISCUSSION
........__.._.._._,_..,Na recent occasion an assistant
to the Attorney-General of the
United States - characteristi-
cally of Jewish extraction -
made this utterance in a public
speech: "Only those are fit to
govern who have the courage
and ability to seize power suc-
cessfully and use it!" He was
paving the way as he could for the coming of the
American Jewish Bolsheviks, and offering an advance
alibi for the usurpations of his clique in America's fed-
eral affairs. Ostensibly too, he was excusing the
dictatorial policies of the Yiddish Party in America's
great economic pestilence of the years 1929 to 1941 ~
tJr. This sort of thing, projected from a man so hi~hly
and responsibly placed as an assistant to the Attorney-
General, cannot help but work its psychological mis-
chief on minds not accustomed to considering its impli-
cations deeply. It appears, on its face, to be an acclaim-
ing or adulating of jurisdictional heroisms-leadership
taking the commendably aggressive in the sterilities of
623
)
>ii
J
-~
economic prostration-but to the civically erudite it is
quite the opposite.
What this Jewish assistant to the Attorney-General was
saying in effect was: . "Might makes right!"
In other words, if you have the strength and audacity
to be boss, you have the right to be boss by virtue of
your demonstrated self-strength.
Strange indeed it is, to find such utterances solemnly
pronounced by the same bloc in our present national
life exclaiming hysterically for the preservation of
democracy and the stabilizing of majority rule against
the inroads or encroachments of Fascism. Bolshevism
however, being essentially satanistic, takes no care to be
logical or consistent. So the point need not be argued.
(jf The postulate, on the other hand, that Might Makes
Right-that force in seizing power is its own alibi for
exercising that power-is something for the analyst
seriously to consider.
Does might make right?
Certainly the inquiry and its answer ties in most appro-
priately with our present topic under discussion: the
malodorous aspects of One-Man Rule and the inevitable
denouement of one-man rule into party rule as those
aspects become actualized to public disgruntlement.
624
m~m~la HAT certain individuals endowed with the
more unfolded consciousness do seize
power-as their capabilities and o:ppor-
tunities permit-is, of course, a platitude.
The one executive brain, epitomizing.some
sort of remedial idea, turns the confusion caused by a
million brains all thinking to individualized cross-pur-
poses, into the one program of action, and by eliminating
such confusion, constructive principles are permitted to
exercise~ ~
If Might-that is to say, Force or. Violence-must be
employed to do this, and the product is assumed to he
Right, then we have the prerogative of looking trench-
antly at Right and knowing in each instance what it
consists of, that it is so justified.
Right, so to speak, must perpetually be qualified.
Right of itself is impossible to recognize; always it
must be identified by some association with wrong.
In any usurpation of power then, by one individual, the
contention that Force or Violence carries its own justifi-
cation must be-or should be-accompanied by the ex-
position: justified as to WHAT, or in the face of what?
·.;Jf To he tolerated or accredited at all, the axiom that
Might Makes Right should be translated rather: Might
as force or violence is justifiable in the face of some
chaotic condition currently prevailing, that the employ-
ment or enforcement of the said Might may invoke a
benefit upon the group assemblage. In saying that Might
Makes Right, and assuming that perchance it does, the
625
J
v
i
speaker is conveying that society must .have arrived in
some sort of cul de sac in its receiving of benevolences,
where its continued expressions along a given line
merely increase the degree of its sterilities.
Always we must come back to the proposition: .What
is best, essentially, for the group as a whole?
Human organization in the earth-arena being what it is,
and all souls entering into it having equal prerogatives
in deriving benefits from it, the Cosmic Supervision
recognizes no one person or set of persons as ·having
claims u.pon the more eternal benevolences to the detri-
ment or denial of others.
This was the great truth whose expression was at-
tempted in our Declaration of Independence when the
assertion was used as a tocsin that "all men are created
equal"~~
They were created on a par as to candidacies for the
reception of opportunities for experiences that should
the more adroitly and swiftly unfold their consciousness.
fJf Thus considerations of group improvements always
must take in as many individuals as possible, that the
Celestial Pattern as it applies to earth may be served.
fJf Blindly and not always willingly, this is what the
One-Man Rule essays when by hook or crook he en-
forces his personal philosophies upon his fellows, mak-
ing them follow his social recommendations as worldly
connivance offers him the power to do so.
He is making mandatory his own mentor•notions that
benevolences of some sort may come to a group, albeit
626
that group may not be numerically superior amid all the
human units wherein it operates,
Receivers in bankruptcy to society from time immemor"'.
able have HAD to take the philosophical attitude that .the
exigencies of the situation justified their dictatorial con...
duct, because the celestial. law of the Greatest Good to
the Greatest Number is impossible to flout.
Boiled down into a capsule, however, what One-Man
Rulership is justifying is: the employment of force to
negate or·render emasculate one set of individuals with
their peculiar ideas, that benefits expressed in law and
order of an equally eccentric character may accrue to a
caste, class, or even a majority.
He is merely the agent that makes one set of ideas un-
challengable or non-subvertible in action.
When we consider the rightness of his conduct, there-
fore, we must forever take into accompanying consid-
eration the· nature of the prevalent social situation per-
mitting him to come to the fore.
No two such situations are ever alike.
If we want to assume that Might Makes Right, we must
finish our postulate in this manner: Force to effect the
coordination of ideas has been justified in this instance
because it is apparent as well as logical-and therefore
moral-that the non-employment of such force would
have meant a continuing disintegration. of the social
structure and permanent disaster to a majority amid the
group~~
Might therefore ddes not make right. Might inakes for
627
j
J
r
i
a condition wherein, or whereunder, the question of
what is right-or what is wrong-can be convincingly
determined ~ ~
Right, I repeat, must ever be qualified.
If Might is employed in prospects that truly do enhance
the well-being of the majority within a group, there can
be no question as to its essential correctness.
If Might is employed in prospects that are subsequently
proven not to enhance the well-being of a majority
within the group, the malodorous effects will not only
disclose themselves at once but will work for the de-
molishment of the principals employing it.
We have an illustration of both declensions in the
phenomena of Naziism and Bolshevism in Europe of the
present~~
Hitler embraces a form of Might to gain ascendency of
power for his German Brownshirts, serves efficiently
and beneficently as receiver in bankruptcy to the whole
German nation, and lifts the German State into prestige
and prosperity in a handful of years.
Looked at philosophically, Might has made for a "right
conditioning.. as between Hitlerian Nazis and the pros-
trated Germans.
A few hundred miles east of Berlin, Josef Stalin em-
braces a form of Might to gain ascendency of power
for his Communistic cohorts inherited from Lenin. He
works himself-by intimidation and murder-in:to a
position more despotic than Nero, slaughters thirty mil-
lions in the process, makes Russia the rat's nest of evil
628
'
(
f
f
I
as regards all neighboring states, and reduces his country
to the status of a colossal work-house. Power he has
seized, indeed. But Might has by no means made for a
right conditioning and daily and hourly Stalin's regime
totters toward the brink of inglorious collapse.
Germany prospers under Hitler and the man's power
becomes the phenomenon of our period. Russia suffers
ruin under Stalin and the man scarcely dares show him-
self to his subjects fearing that their vengeance will take
the form of his swift assassination.
What are these but qualifications of the axiom's appli-
cation to the circumstance?
Always we must concede that it is not the Might of itself
that must needs be castigated, but the use to which Might
is put eccentrically and proven deleterious or otherwise
by its social product.
If Might-that is, Force, Violence, Power-were not for
legitimate employment in this world, it would never
have appeared as an item in natural composition.
Might is certainly expressed in the policeman's badge
and arm when he puts a thug in jail. Exactly the same
Might seizes hold upon an innocent suspect in a crime
and effects his retention behind the same bars. Might
has made FOR right in the first instance, but for wrong
in the second. To make the blanket assertion therefore
that Might Makes Right simply because it is might, is an
exercise defiant of intellect and philosophy.
The One-Man Rulership therefore can by no means
justify itself by declaring: "I have elevated myself into
629
11·~.-.··.····.·.·
f
1J
~
t ~
;
;
i
this position, therefore my success renders me infallible
in my decidings for the good of society." The eternal
law will at once commence to operate a:nd do its own
dictating~ It will say to such a one: "Thou fool! This
night is thy soul required of thee!" In other words,
''As ye perform, so shall ye be adjudged."
Christ put it: "By its fruits shall ye know the tree."
In this case, the Tree of Rulership is no exception to the
wisdom~~
P6G~~~ 0 single strong characters gain to tempora.ry
exercise of their supreme wills over the
individualized· wills making up the so-
cialized mass. Their motivations may be
selfish or selfless, based on personal
vanities which require inordinate feeding and constant
adulation or upon the sincere desire to benefit their fel-
lows and vacate the scene as soon as expedient. But
always and forever, each makes this discovery: The
tax on the individualized faculties is like unto no other
tax in the consummate galaxy of human employments.
C]f To reduce the proposition into the vernacular, the
despot seizes power through an itch to boss his neigh-
bors, but after the first flush of victory and pleasurable
reactions from much huzzahing at his feat has ceased to
be a novelty, it gradually dawns upon him that he has
let himself in for an insufferable serfdom.
There is no imprisonment on earth comparable to the
630
discipline entailed in preserving one's position in power
after he has gained it.
Envious associates, artful spies, antagonistic agitators,
open enemies devised from personalized antipathies, all
combine to create a menace to One-Man Rulership that
makes vigilance in the face of ita torment.
No ruler has ever endured the strain of it successfully.
Usurpers of power in the strictly One-Man Rulership
quickly recognize that unless they somehow divide their
responsibilities and extend themselves through others,
they are going to fail to hold their usurpations, fail in
health or nerves, go mad, or fall by the assassin•s weapon
through the very nature of their eccentric elevation.
fl! Pure tyrannies, therefore, must be forever transient.
The Celestial Supervisors seem to have made uncon,;.
testable provision that inhabitants of earth shall not fall
permanently into the status of robots, obedient forever
to the caprices of megalomaniacs.
First of all, being human himself-that is, exercising
through a physical vehicle that has limitations similar to
all physical vehicles iri his subjects-
.. the wo•uld-be
Master-Man ultimately discerns that there are not hours
enough in any one day to transact the 'business de-
volving on him as mentor.
The second discovery which he makes, is the appalling
prospect of having to become slave to insufferable
routine. He must be at his palace or on his throne at
specified hours, wear the insignia of his office at pre-
scribed functions which sustain his elevation, hold
631
/.
. audience for his agents that his commands be correctly
executed, and sign wearying quantities of documents-
writing the same signature till he is sick of the sight of it.
~The human spirit-mind is so constructed that the mo--
ment it does not derive new experiences and therefore
unfoldments from sequences of events, it promptly
atrophies. There is no standing still to spirit-mentality.
The very essence of routine is experience-sterility. On
the other hand, personal rulership makes the sternest
demands on the individual for maximum spiritual-
mental vigilance else he will be demolished from the
height of his column.
The moment therefore, that the would-be Master-Man
perceives what a hell he has created for himself, and
that truly he is the grandiose victim of a conflict which
can only end with his disappearance from the scene, he
reacts as the Celestial Supervisors have made provision
for him to react: He gathers a staff of lesser mentor-
spirits about him as satellites to do the many things that
. shall mitigate his plight.
In that instant, whether he cares to concede it or not, he
has begun to abdicate his rulership and the Party is
born!~~
632
fBg1a~~HE PARTY, which always and forever is
the item of evolution out of One-Man
Rulership, may take the aspect of the
monarchal court, the cabinet of ministers,
or the conclave of tributary chieftains.
But it has to evolve, from the very nature of the human
limitations exhibited in the absolute ruler. "Absolute"
as a term to describe him is quickly proven to be a
fallacy, a paradox, a vicious absurdity. The moment a
second man's brain must be utilized to aid in a ruling,
there are two individualized opinions both calling for
expression in terms of executive decreeing.
The absolute ruler has vacated his position to that
amount, I say, and though he may continue to actas the
symbol of authority he has nevertheless weakened him-
self and begun sowing the seeds of his ultimate dis-
appearance ~ ~
The process is inexorable.
It is for this basic reason that no man will ever be able
to rule the whole earth. Many childish brains, obsessed
with megalomania., have dreamed the dream of doing it.
But the very demands of such an office upon one human
organism would be such that the end would be mental
unbalance-the elimination of such ambitious personage
through wear and tear from attendant duties.
Alexander the Great was called the ruler of the world
and sighed for other earths to conquer. It should
be realized that the entire territory subjugated by
Alexander throughout his dramatic lifetime-and called
633
The World-did not embrace an area as big as that por-
tion of the United States situated east of the Missis~ipp.i
River~~ ·
Caesar made Rome victorious over the nations in the
immediate vicinity of the Mediterranean, but he. ad-
mitted that he could not hold his gains and eventually
died of stabbings at the foot of Pompey's column.
Napoleon bethought to overrun Europe and rule it at
his whim. But he conquered a territory no larger than
the United States, and only held it for a length of time
representing the life of a normally healthy dog.
Mussolini does not aspire to rule the universe-that
anyone has heard about-yet he is hailed as Fascist
dictator and absolute ruler over the country known as
Italy. Translated into terms of territory, Italy of Musso-
lini's dictatorship is about as sizable as the State of
California.
Hitler's ascendency is hailed as phenomenal, gaining to
control of the mighty German people. He really has no
more territory to "sell,'' at this writing, than is repre•
sented by Montana.
Subjugation of these little territorial units for a time
is by no means indication that the Celestial Law of
Racial Diversities has been-or can be- ignored or
overthrown ~ ~
634
r
Bl~~~ HE One-Man Ruler, I say, finds himself
humanly incompetent to fulfil the de-
mands of his office upon his time and
body, so he begins to select subordinates.
These subordinates, forsooth, are at first
petty extensions of himself. But what shall bind these
subordinates together and make them function as an
aligned unit if the ruler in person happens to be absent?
Right there appears the first faint form of a Constitu-
tion. ''What socialized governmental notion do I
stand for, among my fellows?" the ruler asks. Then
he proceeds to answer the question in his program of
fiats for the conduct of his program.
He may decree a Code of Laws, like Hammurabi. He
may write such a book as My Battle, like Hitler in his
exposition of non-Jewish National Socialism. The
product is the same.
The man as a personage crystallizes himself into the
political idealogy. .
The moment that he does this, he has taken the second
step toward abdication and disappearance.
The political idealogy is always a sort of charter creat-
ing a corporation whose life is perpetual and which
may persist long after any of the human agencies
creating it have passed from the earthly scene.
Parties, and Party Rule-as I have said-are natural
evolutions from the natural circumscriptions distin-
guishing absolute rulers in that they are human.
Constitutions are acknowledged transcripts of decrees
635
and acceptances, crystallizing one-man CIVIC receiver-
ships into political idealogies that posterities may
operate~·~
Looked at in such light, One-Man Rulerships are· al-
ways and forever a Phase of a Process~
Inas.much as no civic bankruptcy can ever be perma-
nent, so no absolute receivership in that bankruptcy
can ever remain enduring. A process is a process be-
cause it is exhibiting elements of Change.
It is because of this premise that no nation-the United
States included-need ever fear a total and permanent
overthrow of its constitutional structure in terms of a
dictatorship. A nation-the United States included-
may become economically prostrate to such a point that
a temporary and arbitrary receiver is necessary. But he
cannot maintain his office because he must proceed to
the integration of delegating his official duties to com...
panions. At once these companions, ushered into
spheres of influence, will work like yeast to emasculate
his despotism. The same thing is going on in Russia
at the moment. Hitler is averting it by making his
political idealogy and Party Rule a vitality within his
own lifetime.
No matter how good or how bad, how destructive or
constructive, how arbitrary or benevolent, a One-Man
Rulership 'may be, the vast conclave of spirits that fill
up the earth, all with their individualized expositions of
aggressive consciousness, will writhe and squirm and
convulse and fight, till a condition approximating the
636
greatest good to the greatest numbers is arrived at ~
CJ[ This brings us to my final consideration: the per-
petual benevolences involved to this end in the system
of civics which I have called the Christian Common-
wealth-and how it differs from these Absolutisms,
Party-isms, and general Constitutionalisms kept in
existence by Chambers of Deputies, not only in America
but all countries abroad.
What are the pitfalls and inadequacies involved in all
these pre-discussed systems of governments that the
Commonwealth in a measure serves to defeat?
637
'.. -,
)
THE FORTIETH DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN -LAW
~ ~ THE FORTIETH DISCUSSION ~ ~
HERE is, of course, no perfect
form of government.
Government, considered for
what it is in essence, displays
at all times its own perfection.
··f:I Three men in association, be-
ing volatile and independent
spirit--souls, have three conflict-
ing philosophies as to what their
relationships should be. · In any such trio there is a
majority and a minority. The electric instant in which
two of them concur in what shall be their disciplinary
conduct in regard to the fortunes of the third while such
relationship persists-whether it be a voluntary or an
enforced concurrence-in such electric instant Govern-
ment has made its appearance and is perfect in its es-
sence. It may proceed to exercise in any one of a
thousand forms and variations, depending upon the
qualities of consciousness of those to whom it applies, or
their military or economic predicament generally.
Nevertheless, in its pristine meaning and acceptances,
its perfection is automatic by the nature of its exercise.
641
CJ[ It exhibits fundamentally an alignment of minds to
achieve a given attainment, and when we have said
that, we have said the decalogue.
When we come to consider the variations and aspects
which it takes, what may be its predominating features
for good or evil, how many free spirits under it are
aided and how many injured, then we proceed to a con-
sideration of jurisdictional policies. We thereat leave
Government as such, and enter the domain of Politics.
It is unnecessary to develop this thought. We have
undertaken thirty-nine discussions concerning it al-
ready~~
It is Government as government that is good, and
Politics as policies that are comparable as to merits.
Government is the business of bringing Form out of Void
and is the crux of all recognized creation; indeed, we
recognize creation only as divine government proceed-
ing to its exercise.
642
~gli!il'ia 0 it is only the vaporings of uninformed
cosmic youngsters when people here and
there give expression to the thought that
this or that political aspect of Govern-
ment is infallible or flawless in its exer-
cisings and executings upon the human race for some
little moment in humanity's history.
Always the aspects-that is, the politics-of any Gov-
ernment are transient conditionings of social jurisdic-
tion wrought by the degree to which Spirit has unfolded
as a norm of culture throughout the people concerned as
a whole. This is another way of saying that a people
as a rule enjoy just about as good a government as they
deserve, or want m:=:iintained over them.
The most benevolent kingly government is not neces-
sarily the perfect government therefore, neither is a con-
stitutional republic like the United States the perfect gov-
ernment. These Patterns for Jurisdiction are exercised
because they happen to fit peculiarly the degree of un-
foldments which the Mass Soul has reached to the mo-
ment, or which serve some cosmic purpose that has to
do with the development of a political or economic arena
for a peculiar class of incarnating spirits presently to
make entrance and who will require for their spiral
progress the profits that will accrue to them for living
within it. ~ ~
This is what is implied when the statesman cries in im-
passioned speech, "Remember, gentlemen, we are build-
ing for the ages!" It is a pretty phrase but superficial
643
-
nonsense. There is no such thing as building for. the
ages, for the very essence of "the ages" is disintegration,
change, experiment, and exploration. , .
No statesman-looking back over history-.-has ever
built for the ages, for the simple reason that each gen-
eration deliberately comes into·· life to undergo certain
endurances and observations that will enable it to make
its own decidings as to what is best for it in seeking
spiritual unfoldment.
What can happen, however, and what does happen, and
what the orator vaguely seeks to express when he talks
about "building for the ages,'' is the establishment of
certain fundamentals of ethical or political culture that
seem to have demonstrated themselves as worthy of per-
petuation, so that succeeding generations shall have the
caches of ethical or political wisdom which they repre-
sent, to draw upon in experimenting with their own
forms, departures, innovations and improvements.
A father of wealth may possess three sons. He may
have it within his economic resource to build a resi-
dence for each lad wherein he shall dwell when he has
reached those years that a family is imminent. What
father in his senses, however, would go out and con-
struct three houses after his own caprices and designs
and expect each boy to be properly grateful to him that
he as fa~her did such work.
No, he would encounter resentment instead.
H the three lads were anything other than morons, they
would exclaim: "It's kind of dad to be so solicitous, and
644
God bless him, hut what he considers ideal architecture
isn't our notion of a homelike house at all. Besides,
there are our wives. They too want something to say
about the appearance or geography of our several domi-
ciles. In other words, we want to be left free to express
our own individualities in the appearances of our
houses"~~
And it is so with governments.
On the other hand, a wise father would certainly say:
"I have lived in many countries and seen much of the
world. I will take up my residence therefore in such-
and-such a country, that as my sons are born and grow
along to manhood they may be subconsciously molded
in their desires and aspirations by the high ethical stand-
ards of that country and its political opportunities be-
come available for their embracement. In other words,
out of my own wisdom I will prepare by artful selection
the arena of social activity in which they shall be in-
ducted into life. But thereafter I will leave them only
my wealth, permitting them to exercise their own char-
acters in the construction of their domiciles."
Individualities must be served, whether they manifest in
a rich man's three sons or in a great people such as the
Germans, the Italians, the Swiss, or the Mexicans.
Arenas of opportunity may be created for posterity but
the opportunities themselves, posterity must shape ~
'fJf The three sons of the rich man might take up resi-
dence in the three houses so generously provided by the
father as a matter of pleasing the old man or demon;.
645
;,,;'
strating their filialty. Most certainly, however, when
the parent went discarnate they would quickly call in
the carpenters and masons and have their homes made
over to conform to their caprices.
~~~~~E. in these United States have been taught
that the Constitutional Republic is more or
less the final word in ldealty of Govern-
ment, that there exists nowhere any better
pattern of political jurisdiction than the
so-called American, that by finding it thus set up by the
Fathers and proceeding to enjoy its benefits, we have
politically outclassed any of the Old World nations, and
that all forms of Government hereafter must approxi-
mate in some degree the civic adherence of our forty-
eight States ~ ~
Much of it is merely childhood fixation, and reflex from
tradition extravagantly touted.
The true reason why a Constitutional Republic was fore-
ordained for these United States, and why for this little
minute in eternity it would seem to be ideal for indi-
vidual development beneath the Bill of Rights, is the
phenomenon of the American nation being a political
coagulation composed of representations from a score of
races or racial extractions, deploying here in this par-
ticular world territory and requiring some form of execu-
tive machinery that should be a facile compromise of all
the past political machineries distinguishing the racials
so composing the populace.
646
"You shall each one of you feel perfectly free to bring
your fixations of One-Man Rulershrips, Party Ruler-
ships, Constitutional-Monarchy Rulerships, or what-not,
here as you please," says the American Political Pro-
posal, "but when it comes to actual civic procedure you
shall encounter the tro.uble-minirr¥zing machinery o,f
group representation. Each territorial group shall select
a spokesman and send him to sit in a Congress. This
Chamber of Deputies shall make the laws, and every two
to four years there shall be a change of chamber per-
sonnel-·-to the end and aim that such personnel does not
become crystallized into that permanence which means
an arbitrary authority expressing the fiats of one group."
fJ We might view the Constitutional Republic as a Per-
petual Expediency for checkmating the rise of groups
to overweening prominence.
And yet it does more.
The political form of the Constitutional Republic-con-
sidered in purity of exercise-places a personal respon-
sibility upon .the private citizen to take a vital interest
in his government and see to it that it maintains to his
advantage, assuring him perpetuity of enjoyment of the
liberties embodied in our Bill of Rights.
What actually is in progress?
For the first time in the history of the modern world the
citizens of a country are faced with a responsibility to
govern-albeit vicariously through the ballot-and
thus acquire practical and personal experience with civic
jurisdiction as principals instead of blind obedience to
647
the fiats of a chieftain, no matter how capable, who does
their civic thinking and acting for them.
By actual participation in the business of government,
no matter how indirect or how frail, the citizen's quality
of social consciousness is being µnfolded. He is ob-
taining the first rudiments of a civic education that shall
one day equip him to be jurisdictional officer in his own
right, whether it be dog-catcher in his current earth-
career or royal potentate in some governmental set-up
among ·lesser-developed spirits not yet incarnate.
To this end and aim there can be no argument about the
benefits and profits of life under a Constitutional Re-
public as contrasted with life under a tyrant, autocrat,
dictator, party rule, or constitutional monarchy.
We say that here in America ..every man is king." ...
Every man, of course, is NOT king-yet!-but every
man is in the way of acquiring a personal knowledge of,
and training in, kingcraft. And thus does the Jurisdic-
tional Cycle preserve itself by evolving candidates for
its facile exercise, world without end, amen!
648
~le~:-l~T IS because the political system known as
the Christian Commonwealth supplies
even a freer exercise for such personalized
experiments in kingcraft, that its progeni-
tors are so zealous in making its provisions
well-known throughout the body-politic.
Today, the work of the founding fathers in regard to the
Constitutional Republic, stands incomplete.
The founding fathers provided a format for the personal
intrusion of the private citizen into the affairs of State,
albeit by representation-that is, through a congress of
agents-that took their authority from the governed ~
fJf That was a tremendous stride in the right direction,
but it did not stride far enough.
It placed no checks or balances on recalcitrant perform-
ance from those representatives or agents. It ignored
the possibility that those representatives or agents, being
very human men, might become amenable to corruption
or coercion by predatory cliques, and their offices emas-
culated to the woe of the majority.
The founding fathers evidently took for granted that all
civic leaders in the future, by the very nature of their
prominence, would prove themselves as possessing the
sincerity and integrity-certainly the official capability
-that they were evincing in themselves.
They went to definite ends to express the opinion in the
Bill of Rights that the exercise of free speech and a free
press would keep the political structure uncontaminated
by the said corruption or coercion.
649
They ~ntertained no suspicions that an economic situa-
tion might be arrived at, whereunder free speech might
depend upon the racial or political whims of a Federal
Communications or Radio Commission, or where a free
press might be harnessed in the necessity for survival by
a catering to the caprices of advertisers who came to be
intimidators of editorial and news columns and arbiters
on what appeared therein.
It never dawned on the imaginations of men like Frank-
lin, Jefferson, and Madison, that a time would arrive in
these United States when raw newsprint stock on which
papers are printed, would-or could-be monopolized
by a predatory clique so that the editor or publisher re-
fusing to accede to its dictates could be deprived of
materials wherewith to publish.
Franklin, Jefferson, or Madison had no means of know-
ing that international news associations would be
evolved, serving with only nominal representation the
leading journals of the whole country, and that if
usurpers or destroyers of this country placed an editorial
censor at the head of the wire service of such associa-
tions, the thinking of a nation might become subverted
to nefarious ends, or the actual destruction of the Re-
public that the usurpers might benefit.
No, free speech and a free press is by no means any
guarantee that government can be kept clean through
their critical offices.
A handful of Asiatic Jews, with their fiat psychologies,
controlling the outstanding department stores of the
650
country, can-nay DO-exert a numbing and ofttimes
subversive control over the whole constitutional scene.
ij The women of the nation will not read newspapers
that do not carry news of the bargains announced in the
department-store advertisements. Without such woman
patronage to this commercial end, no newspaper can
survive, since it will not command a profitable circu-
lation :L_'lf ~
No matter how strongly an editor or publisher may feel
about a racial or political usurpation, his first indication
of criticism will bring a hornet-swarm of insolent Jewish
advertisers into his business department with the open
blackmail threat: · "Stop the criticism or forego our
revenue!" ~ ~
So the advertisers dictate by reaction what the publisher
shall print.
Thus officials are elected to federal office who can be
nominated by the same Jewish clique without fear of
successful newspaper opposition. Once in such office,
such executives are beholden to the interests that has
made their election possible. From that point on, the
same clique ~an do with the country what it pleases.
An entire people can be hoodwinked as to what bloc
may be secretly behind the maneuverings of govern-
ment~~
I sat one day in the private office of a great midwest
publisher, a man who had long been my intimate friend.
I discussed with him some of the more mischievous as-
pects of our Yiddish usurpation.
651
"Tell the people about it through the medium of a great
journal like yours," I begged, "and this racial minority
will have their power to alter our government dismissed
at a stroke."
With tears in his eyes this publisher responded: "I
know from my journalistic experience that every word
you've be;en telling me is true. Yet the first expose
article that I ran in my sheet would bring the cancella-
tion of my department-store contracts for advertising,
overnight. Without such advertising, the women of
this city wouldn't buy my paper. My circulation would
vanish in a week. You're asking that I deliberately com-
mit commercial suicide. I might as well shut down the
paper at once and go back to my youthful occupation
of farming."
"Then what about the future of America?" I asked.
"What truth lies in the slogan on your mast•head: 'Free,
Aggressive, Independent'?"
My friend shrugged his shoulders.
"I must play the game according to the times. Find
me a way to throw the Jews out of the department-store
business and I'II even make you an offer to write my
editorials. You can go as far as you please with
exposure"~ ~
I did not unduly upbraid my friend. I had been a daily
newspaper publisher for several years myself.
652
'45.~~~i§tiiit.QJ ERE then, we have a condition within our
much-vaunted ..free" Republic where no
agency exists-and at present is not per:
mitted-whereby the populace can truly
adjudge its officialdom on merit because
the truth about such'merit cannot be obtained. Of course
there are other controlling agencies besides department-
store Jews on the loose in America, but taken by and
large, we have so far succumbed to the control of the
economic that the state without such control exercised
upon its officials is regarded as phenomenon.
As the yokel exclaimed on hearing the results of a re-
form election: ..If something ain't wrong, 'taint right!"
We proceed on such philosophy now to our political ter-
ror. Thereat we wonder why a whole nation is suddenly
brought beneath the duress of a stricture, with Hard
Times charted by cycles, and a President unreprimanded
when he dares to say in essence: ..No recovery before
reform,"-the reform obviously being the practical
abandonment of the Republic in favor of Jewish soviet-
ism ~ ~
Into this miasma of tolerated corruption comes the for-
mat of the Christian Commonwealth, declaring in es-
sence for nothing more nor less than that the ideals of
the founding fathers be completed in their practicings.
C]f The Christian Commonwealth, being essentially eco-
nomic as to renovation, and not political, alters merely
the possibilities for venery through economic pressure
on the individual, be he honest newspaper publisher or
653
I
~
toiling farmer beneath Kansas sun.
It says, "Correct a faulty economic system in wealth's
distribution and the premise for the use of the nation's
currency, and political evils cease from sterility. Crime
vanishes because the factors making for crime are erased.
You do not need to overthrow the political forms of the
founding fathers in the slightest. Preserve them and
strengthen them. But alter the practices that viciously
corrupt them."
In other words, the Christian Commonwealth heals the
malady not with a poultice for the skin hut in the blood-
stream of the patient.
It is right and proper, here in this phenomenal nation
in the West, that spirit-souls now in life should con-
cretely participate in Government. But a faulty and
unprecedented econpm.c set-up is counteracting this
participation and truth to tell, America is now pulled
down economically to that bankrupt point-with her
resources so disastrously dissipated-that she cannot go
along manifesting through those constitutional forms
till a Receiver in Bankruptcy who has the correct eco-
nomic format ready for application, conducts her
through a temporary purge.
It is an awesome thing to contemplate, since it evolves
the political and economic status of so many millions of
persons. But necessity knows no sentiment. We have
needed this period to demonstrate the faults of a too-
free Constitutionalism.
654
t]i~krJ~~ HAT country is governed best which is
governed least. This declaration is by no
means original yet it would be original if
tried out in practice. t][ Spirit-souls come
into earth-life, not to be governed but to
learn how to govern. And they learn fastest and most
adroitly what the requirements for successful govern-
ment are, as they are permitted to follow their own de-
vices up to that corral-fence wherein they damage one
another spiritually.
If I were at the head of this nation for a period, despite
the seeming sentimentality of the utterance, these are
the Seven Principles on which I would base my admin-
istration:
First, Have the forces under my control been admin'."
istered this day so that love of humankind for one
another has been enhanced in its broadest aspects?
Second, Have men learned anything from the function-
ing of government today that has privately ennobled
them?
Third, Have men been taught to stand any straighter
and firmer on their legs, from what I have personally
administered this day, and enticed by example of Great
Public Office to look at each other fearlessly yet
lovingly?
Fourth, Have men had any examples reared before them
of compatibility in administration that will uncon-
sciously motivate the smoother administration of their
private lives?
655
l
·~
Fifth, Have men seen anything in the future, motivated
by Government, that enhances their prospects and he·
littles their failures?
Sixth, Have men known what it is to suffer today in
experiences, not for other men's wraths or concupis·
cences, but for their soul's profit?
Seventh, Have men been so inspired by Government
today that they are willing to die for one another, yet
live for one another the more prosperously and heauti·
fully?
ONTRAST such a set of stipulations,
honestly and devoutly practiced, with the
awesome hinge of lechery, self·seeking,
spoils allotments, and political chicaneries,
that are prevalent in these moments, with
thirteen millions of our citizens out of work, a Congress
appropriating twelve billions of dollars in one session,
a Chief Executive taking $300,000 personal vacations
on the public funds, and all the racial vultures of Europe
swarming here under the license of a controlled State
Department to poison the well.springs of youth and re·
place each native by an alien in his job.
Any Constitutional Republic that sponsors a system
whereunder such things can be contrivable is of its own
essence an atrocious format in political executiveship ~
f] Naturally, as a matter of Effect from Cause, a change
is on the make.
Lechery forever works its own suicide.
656
It is manifestly impossible, of course, to attempt herein
either a description or interpretation of the Christian
Commonwealth, since its stipulations and enhancements
are elaborately set forth in other volumes. But this
thing is pertinent-
The gods who rule over upwardly-spiraling mankind are
not petty gods, nor are they serving celestial advance-
ments selfishly. We must accredit that they exist and
that they are watching the affairs of nations. When a
people come to a place that evils alter their governments,
strange prescriptions are forever evinced, making for a
nobler concept of Government as a whole. Strange
Servants of Eternity are ever to hand in flesh to carry
out the merciful recommendations of those who have
.come a long way with the human race and observed it in
all its phases.
Speaking personally, I have always had faith to believe
that the Constitutional Republic was founded upon this
side of the water to serve an upwardly-ennobling pur-
pose, but that purpose-at the time of the adoption of
the Constitution-was neither fully revealed nor
actualized ~ ~
In other words, the founding fathers did not complete
their work, deliberately, that such eventual completion
might be arrived at after a sufficient time had elapsed
for other generations to perceive what constitutionality
meant in purity.
Let us leave the matter there.
We who are of Enlightenment realize that if we have the
657
I
l.
analytical ability to know and recognize these things,
and entertain ideas of completion, it is probably true
that we likewise have the brevet to serve as Completers
as we may. It is not a delusion to grandeur but a stern
responsibility wondrously arrived at.
This book, therefore, has kept itself more or less to
analysis and not striven to advance postulates and defi-
nite :recommendations. What are the facts as we con-
front them?-is the premise on which l have proceeded
from the first. Next, do we understand them compe-
tently in the light of ancient experience and celestial
compensations? ~ ~
To think is to do.
lf we cannot advance a theory after having the premise
for its necessity shown us, we are louts indeed. And
humanity, thinking, suffering, hoping, aspiring, is not
made up of louts.
I refuse to believe it, and so should you.
.
658
THE FORTY-FIRST DISCUSSION
NATIONS-IN-LAW
THE ·FORTY-FIRST DISCUSSION
HUS I come to my final chapter.
=
..,..,...,...._....,+.I fJl Nine years I have taken in
the writing of this book. My
purpose in writing it has not
been political, neither has it
been "practical." That is to say,
I have had neither the intention
nor desire to trace event liter-
ally or even historkally, and
then point the way to some sort of private panacea for
the world's troubles by showing concrete methods by
which a more comprehensive political structure could
be realized or made to serve.
The libraries of the nations are stuffed with such books.
t] No man of sense will attempt to write any book whose
validity and credence must rest on specific event or par-
ticular remedy. Internationality is moving too fast. The
ordnance of Mammon is moving up too swiftly.
Man as a species stands at the cross roads of eternity,
perplexed and bewildered, looking for its guide-posts,
instead of which, down the highways of the future ap-
proach those in Shining Garments who would take him
661
I
~
by the hand and personally conduct him up mountain-
paths of valor to summits of rare equity whose encom-
passing vistas are redundant with vineyards.
Man cannot discern the presences of those Resplendant
Ones in his limited vision of the current hour. But can
he, in divine logic, have been mentored thus far along
the Highroad, only to be deserted in this eighth hour of
his progress and left to blunder tragically into unspeak-
able morasses? There are yet several hours to be run
on the time-clock of his cycle. . It is in the manifest
nature of the Trend that he is to he everywhere pro-
tected and helped. If this were not so, then mortal
creation is God's supreme travesty.
Speaking personally again, I began the writing of this
book on a night in May, J929. I am closing its writing
on a noontime in July, J938. My original intention was
to classify in my own mind, by as trenchant analysis as
my mind could command, what might he called the po-
litical Urge of Peoples. Why has the world's history
been a long and hectic program of nation rising against
nation and race pitting itself against race? Must it go
on forever? What have been the factors making such
of issue and can they he controlled for the attainment
of probity-probity in the morals of nations as well as
of individuals? And out of the writing of this book,
putting these factors on paper and examining them
ruthlessly, I draw certain conclusions....
662
fl'i~~~la HE human race is not impractical. It is not
subservient to demoralized ideals only as
it is hoodwinked in valorous ideals. It is
not the butt of forces beyond its command
so much as the material out of which God
Himself is fashioning Cosmos in its progressing destinies
and purposes.
God is not whimsical. To play with the human race as
a gesture in caprice would substitute adolescence for
wisdom and caprice for dignity, both of which must be
divine attributes else why should we so revere them in
our day to day intercourse with transient mortality? ~
fJI" So I find, on the contrary, that while we are "spirits
clad in veils" we are likewise spirits garbed in unutter-
able majesties. And as such, in our worldly residence,
we have been graded and classified as to the splendor of
those majesties. Some are more splendorful than others.
Some wear their majesties as a cloak and others as a
diadem. But both have this in common: they are ca~
didates for still further honors as their interests shall
appear. They are part and parcel of a celestial galaxy
now circumscribed by social, political, and in a measure
commercial penury, in a world that provides circum-
scription for a purpose that man may be able to arrive
consciously at a knowledge of his degrees of progress
in competition with his brothers, century by century
and aeon by aeon.
There is valor in all this. There is Wisdom Trans-
cendant that rears to infinity.
663
These things I believe. But I believe still more. I am
persuaded that in the very near future we are going to
see a complete revaluation and reclassification of the
nations. That is to say, peoples are suddenly going to
arise and express themselves as peoples, as component
parts of a great earth-scheme that indicates, so that the
lowest and humblest citizen can discern it, how magnifi-
cently God has provided for the spiritual evolution of
the species, that nothing matters in the final analysis but
the expansion and ennoblement of the individual coTh-
sciousness, and that even as all humans go to school in
their early years-that they may have presented to them
in a lump-sum most of the findings of society to date
that they may best serve the individual conscience-so
· this human race entoto has been, and ever will be, at-
tending on a curriculum for a like purpose and profit.
To try to subvert or avoid such decree is to bother the
Almighty in His bequests of munificence, and benefic-
ence toward man as a reasoning species.
These conclusions, I submit further, cannot be philo-
sophical necromancies.
Since the composition of this book began I have seen a
great spiritual renovation in matters of theology take
root in this nation-meaning specifically the Liberation
instruction based on similar tenets in the fields of re-
ligious intellectualism.
Since the composition of this book was started, I have
seen a vast enlightenment begin to spread from Maine
to California in regard to the true essence and respon·
664
sibility for political subversions. This too bas cmpped
out in practical maneuverings. The Silversb.irts. wLida
I humbly have the honor to head, have already ha••Wt
a power in the land, pledged to a consummation of thac
ideals and principles in the body politic. Great recaki-
trant interests have summoned their might against me
personally. The Congress of the United States has even
been employed to counteract my teachings, to bring
ignominy upon my person and prestige that deaf ears
might be turned to my expressions of ideals for the pro-
gressive enhancement of my brethren in predicament.
The great State of North Carolina and its legal machin-
ery was commandeered by misrepresentation and sub-
terfuge to descend upon my properties and indict me for
felony, that I might be silenced, principally because of
my personal admiration for, and moral support of, that
great and wise man who at the present writing domi-
nates the German nation and has caused it to take the
first step toward the accomplishment of those aims that
appeal to me as strongly as a political philosopher.
These things cannot be without significance.
We are going somewhere as a nation, we are progress-
ing stupendously as an Aryan culture, we are linked by
indissolvable bonds with those who champion the in-
tegrity of peoples and the pure breeding of races· as a
Cosmic Fiat, everywhere. And all of it implies the most
sacred obligation, both as individuals and as nationals,
to keep faith with the Immortals, to finish the splendor•
fol work so astutely begun by tho~e we term the fathers,
665
that we may all of us gather together around a hearth-
stone in our true Homeland in the twilight of some far-
off celestial day and sense the beauties of accomplish-
ment in a mutual endeavor that has perfected a frater-
nity to endure unto the aeons.
True, we may not all of us sense our reliabilities equally
in that hour, but the sharings of our enhancements from
mutual progress shall be eternal, and only the God of
Things as They Are shall be the final arbiter as to wheth-
er we have succeeded or have failed.
With Him the decision rests, and we should be content
that it is so. . . .
I treat with the matter in no political sentimentality
when I say again that America as a nation has her
destiny to fill, and by the grace of that Supreme Arbiter,
she shall fill it, and we shall be the immortal instruments
of that splendid dispensation.
We have come a long way, all of us, since first we vol-
unteered to undertake this mission. We have seen many
kinds of law given to the hand of the human race, and
have contributed to its administering. We shall con-
tinue so to do. But we have seen subversions accom-
plished. Again and again we have foreborne "to hear
the truth we have spoken twisted by knaves to make a
trap for fools" . . . what matters it? The Eternal Dis-
pensation marches on indubitably. Many little men,
hordes of Dark Souls, each bother God as He legislates
with cummulative wisdoms for our maximum divinity.
Shall we say that we have failed, or are failing, because
666
temporary arrestments have availed in our progress~ It
cannot be failure when the Father of All Conscience be-
sits Himself in judgment on the most irresolute of these.
tj Creation is not a travesty. We are Sons of the Im-
mortals and it doth not yet appear what we may be.
There is alchemy in that!
~l(ir~~~N my book "No More Hunger'' I tried to
paint the picture of an economic State
where the bugbear of economic duress
·~~~l should be forever laid, without in any sense
degrading the private and personal urge
toward maximum achievement. In "Nations-in-Law..
I have sought to carry my thinking at least one rung
higher up the Ladder of Circumstance, and project for
the consideration of sober-minded individualists what
the causes and reasons may be for this vaster depression
-and its alleviation-in the economics of practical poli-
tics~~
Mayhap I have succeeded.
Perhaps I have failed. Perchance I shall be as bitterly
misunderstood and misrepresented in this work as in the
other. No matter!
It is forever posterity who decides on such accomplish-
mgs. "Thinking out of turn'' is but a mortal misde-
meanor. Thinking a score, or a hundred years in ad-
vance of one's times ever courts injustice for him who
would reason and thus attempt enoblement for those
who reason not.
667
We are at least coming to a mighty crossroads in eterni-
ty, and the nations from that point onward must travel
resplendantly in company, no longer as stragglers
whom the wolves and robbers of the EternaLHighroad
drag down ingloriously in that they straggle.
This is my attestment: that the God of Battles may not
necessarily be the Dark God of Slaughter. The nations
are out upon the Highroad, my own nation. that I have
the honor to serve being the youngest and therefore the
most virile of the Marchers. Together we press onward
toward the outposts of civilization where the hosts of
Armageddon await us, to try our strength and test our
valor. But we are not fearful and we do not drag our-
selves in chains as blind slaves whipped onward toward
a shambles. We are soldiers with upturned faces and
brilliant banners catching the sunlight. And militant
above us rears the majestic stature of our Commander-
in-Chief who puts in the lips of all nationals the battlecry:
"Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good
to them that hate you, and pray for them that despiteful-
ly use you and persecute you . . . that you may be the
children of your Father who is in heaven, who maketh
His sun to rise upon the good and evil and sendeth His
rain on the just and unjust. Be you therefore perfect,
even as your Father who is in heaven is perfect."
The nations are the princelings. In all law we are
brethren. Those are Sent who command us.
God grant we keep faith!
FINIS
668
SO YOU ARRIVE AT THE END OF 1HE IWO
VOLUMES NAMED NATIONS-IN-LAW WRITTEN
BY WILLIAM DUDLEY PEI J EY FOR lHE I JBFR-
ATION AUDIENCE AND DONE INTO TWIN
BOOKS BY THE PELLEY PUBLISHERS WHOSE
ADDRESS IN THE SUMMER OF NINETEF.N
HUNDRED AND THIRTY-EIGHT IS BOX SEV-
ENTEEN HUNDRED AND SEVENTY-SIX IN THE
CITY OF ASHEVILLE IN THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA, UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ~.
669
N A T I O N S - I N - L A W
An Unconventional Analysis of Civics
By WILLIAM DUDLEY PELLEY
VOLUM E TW O
Copyright
WILLIAM DUDLEY PELLEY
1938
t h e t w e n t y -f if t h d i s c u s s i o n
N A T I O N S - ! N - L A W
±* T H E TW ENTY-FIFTH DISCUSSION
-IE A BR O G A TIO N of treaty
contracts in the late W orld W ar
brings to our attention the
question of Constitutional Law
as it applies to vast groups of
individuals known as nations or
*
empires— or rather, the rela­
tionships of these groups to one
another on som e recognized
ill minimize instead of m axim ize
the effects w e have discussed in our previous volum e.
€fl W e have seen that Constitutional Law is the desire of
large groups to code mutual understandings that the
greatest good for the greatest number m ay come out of
government. For in the last analysis, G overnm ent is
naught but the promulgation of human organization to
make and administer law. International Law must
therefore be constitutional law as applied to nations in
its broadest aspects.
W e have a tendency in this modern century to think of
international law as a series of specific understandings
that typify solutions to a few specific problems chiefly
369
concerned with freedom of the seas. That is to say, w e
seem to believe that international law is a panacea for
the passing quibbles and misapplication of political
principles on the parts of statesmen of limited vision,
f W e believe that international law will solve all prob­
lems and troubles of the world provided w e resolve our
recipes to some paper paragraphs for reference in courts
of international jurisprudence. W e think that interna­
tional law is a panacea for all international troubles the
moment it is coded and made available for jurists.
W e think that w e have only to say, “That is right and
this is wrong,” among nations, to bring about a sort of
millennium under which nations will be respectful and
honorable toward one another and halt their depreda­
tions on one another’s territories.
This to a student of any kind of law, and its application
to human affairs, is the sheerest nonsense.
Law is law only because it expresses the will of the
majority over the minority, and this applies even though
it be the promulgation of the dicta of a sovereign. To
say that people will obey a law only because it is coded,
is a fallacy that strikes at the very heart and core of all
jurisprudence as a factor in making universal govern­
ment effective.
A law is only as strong as the force behind it is strong
to enforce it. This force may be the will of the majority
spiritually expressed or, for a time, the gunboats of a
monarchy ready to level opposition by internecine
butchery. No matter!
370
A law without force behind it, to give it power of ex­
pression, is a farcical expression of syllables on docu­
ments, and means not a thing to the body politic.
Consider this carefully in an application of the principles
of law—-Constitutional or otherwise— to international
disputes. Unless any code of international laws has
behind it the moral suasion of the rest of the universe,
or at least the will of a majority of its world citizens, it
will be ineffective and impotent. And you cannot have
a law that is impotent. It ceases to be a law and becomes
a mere prescription for human conduct that may be
taken or left at the recipient’s pleasure!
3 3 ^ 3 OW THEN, consider this: W hen Law has
n reached a point universally that it is a vital
f t/ Jj ESv H force because backed by the will of the
K5 majority, it maintains its power whether
IT i coded or not. Countless laws have been
in effect before this codification. This codification is
merely an incident, that neophytes in jurisprudence may
have access to that which has been determined on in
practice by those w ho have done their practicing before
the appearance of the neophytes on the stage of events.
W hen the neophytes come upon the scene— and wher­
ever and whenever students make their advent in any
curriculum of study— it is necessary for them to know
the boundaries of limitation that have been set by their
elders or predecessors for the conduct of any particular
study ±jr ±jr
371
Codification also permits mutual understandings of the
context employed, to express the will of the majority as
it has been projected in practice.
It is not essential that every law be coded. For instance,
the laws of health are not coded. The laws of gravita­
tion and self-preservation are not coded. The laws of
spiritual well-being are not coded. The laws appertain­
ing to medicine and surgery are not coded. The laws of
real estate, commercial practices, and equity in business
proceedings are not coded although certain phases of
them may be. They all rest on penalties, and eventu­
alities for malpractice or violation, so unerring in
disastrous results that to code them seems superfluous.
<J No one, for instance, would code a law that falling
down a flight of stairs is not permissible because injury
awaits at the bottom. W e say “everyone knows that,”
so why code it? The law against falling downstairs is a
Natural Law which the infant learns from its very first
accident. So with the laws of health and so-called
science, of commerce and equity. W e know that if we
do wrong to our brother and the wrong go unredressed,
we are forever in his debt. While that debt may be
ignored by both parties for a time, it does not cease to
exist as a debt, and forever awaits payment so long a?
the debtor exists.
That is Law in its purest form.
Applying these principles to our study of Constitutional
and International Law, we find then that laws are often
coded to make the transgression of them more certain
372
to those w ho understand not the penalties for violation.
€| Law in this sense becomes mere written warning.
But Law itself— in its pristine concept— is a condition
of conduct, nothing more and nothing less, carrying
penalty of som e sort of misbehavior or violation.
Emphatically must w e remember this in any study of
international law—or rather, International Constitu­
tionalism. Law as law is penalty, so to speak, put at the
end of limitation. To say that Law prohibits, without
some sort of penalty that disciplines— in the event of
transgression or flouting of the prohibition— is to talk
nonsense or engage in word play.
Law is based on the fact that human nature has found
that a given line of conduct results in social error and
malpractice if carried to an extreme within the group.
Law therefore says, “Self-preservation demands that de-
sistance become effective else w e perish or be injured
in body or fortunes.” That is the decalogue of all peo­
ples the world over, and particularly is it true coming to
the subject of International Law.
Law says to the individual, “Deport yourself so-and-so
or you injure, or incur the displeasure of, the group.”
<| The group recognizes Law as law when it says, “Thus-
and-so will w e do, else the body politic suffer and all
humanity be disarranged.” That is the decalogue verily.
<| Coming to international law, or the law between na­
tions as such, what do w e find? W hat but that nations
say, “W e as principalities are above suffering penalities, -
in that w e are sovereign. Therefore w e set ourselves
373
above all law, and become law unto ourselves.”
Now there is no such thing as any nation being a law
unto itself, for that would provoke other nations into
contention. They would say, “W e also are laws unto
ourselves and w e dispute your law as being above ours.”
<| W hat a travesty of reasoning!
No reasoning whatsoever is in it, for Law is law and
recognizes neither groups nor principalities of any sort.
It recognizes only the human race as a race.
You cannot have a law that says that one part of the
human race can fall off a cliff without injury while
another portion meets with disaster. You cannot have
a law which says that one portion of the race is immune
from disease while another is exempt from it, speaking
of disease as disease and not special maladies that affect
different groups with different degrees of virulence.
You cannot have a law which says that one group shall
be excused from fulfilling contracts in equity while
another group must adhere to them. Such is the delu­
sion which the Jew of today is suffering from, and must
suffer from further, until he becomes sane from the
extent of mass society’s displeasure wreaked upon his
person
A law is a sort of divine pronouncement to the race, and
is inviolate of transgression. W hat w e are most gen­
erally pleased to call laws are, in many instances, little
more than interpretations of penalties.
But to get back to Constitutional Law as applied to
nations. . .
374
E M UST first consider that whether laws
between nations are coded or not, the pro­
nouncements and fiats of law will make
themselves felt. Law of some sort will
operate whether human beings concur in
it or not. It has in it the retribution of divine decree.
A broken law is an open penalty. That penalty may
be thwarted, it may be ignored, it may be misunderstood,
it may be ameliorated, none the less it is a penalty and
inexorable in expression.
If you take your brother’s goods without payment satis­
fying to him, either as an individual or as a nation, you
are incurring the necessity for payment which can never
be erased until compensation has been made. If you
trespass on your brother’s property or violate his family
circle, you are inviting the retribution of similar conduct
on his part towards yourself. You cannot perform any
act in the group or the nation without ultimate payment
being in abeyance. No codification of this principle
is needed. It is a divine tenet as inexorable in opera­
tion as the Law of Injury when one is careless on the
brink of a precipice. H ow silly, therefore, to look on the
conduct of nations as being above all law, or dependent
on adherence to certain written statutes!
International law began in the first moment that two
nations set up existence in the history of the species.
Its smallest ramification has been prescribed in Cosmic
thought since those two nations— however illiterate—
became actualities.
375
Let us not forget this. Nations may grow, and have
grown, in numbers and powers of self-expression, but
they have not altered one jot or tittle of the principles
of conduct that men today recognize as international
law. You cannot have law without penalty, I say again.
Wherever there is true law there is penalty of some sort,
and inversely and unerringly, whenever you see
penalty in operation—as we witness in gigantic form
between the nations in the recent world war—there look
for a violated law.
Scraps of paper have flooded the earth in attempted
interpretations of legal principles as simple and reso­
lute as that the tumbling from a height means death or
injury for the human organism at the bottom of the
fall. Why will the nations not see this? Primarily,
because they think they have the. power within them­
selves to delay or mitigate the penalties resulting from
transgression, and because of this power they consider
themselves above law. Procrastination in the acceptance
of penalty, however, never voids it but only converts it
into forms more deadly, like a repressed complex in
psychology -4*
Take the case of a nation that thinks to make war on a
neighbor as a means toward its own aggrandizement;
that is the simplest illustration and the one most fre­
quently practiced. It trumps up the war, goes through
with it, and wins it—apparently! It collects its pecuni­
ary awards in terms of reparations or compensations in
lands or forfeitures. By these it seems to be temporarily
376
enhanced. But a debt has been contracted— none the
less— that must be paid to the utmost farthing.
Let us exam ine that debt and see how it is paid in terms
of international law, whether coded or not. . . .
EN have a humor to know the Unknow­
able. There is no Unknowable, all is of
instruction. This applies to nations as
w ell as to individuals. W hen nations
realize that their quandaries are as de­
cipherable in terms of logic as the quandaries of the
individual, they will have no quandaries. A ll is of in­
struction, I say again. W hat then is the instruction in
regard to violations of law resulting from a war, even
a successful war? . . .
Nations fight a conflict and arrange terms of peace.
Sometimes they go back to the status quo— in their own
minds. That is, circumstances seem to be pretty much
in national affairs as they were before the war started.
But one man cannot be killed on either side, nor one
farthing expended, without an obligation having been
created that som ehow must be fulfilled to the satisfaction
of the creditor.
The warring nation, however, in case one side has been
overwhelm ingly defeated, exacts certain values and
promises from the other to which its only right is force
of arms. It says to the vanquished, “I have the power
to take from you, therefore I so take.” The vanquished
says, “I cannot help your taking, therefore I relinquish.”
377
All of which is simple highway robbery on an interna­
tional scale and a violation of the most fundamental law
of human existence— the right of the human being to
work out his own destiny under the conditions imposed
upon himself before entering the mortal duration.
Take away that right and you violate the Law of Karma
reaching unto endless generations. Until readjustment
is reached, there is never any real peace between the
parties. And so it is with, and between, the nations in­
volved in a “successful” war.
The winner says to the vanquished, “G ive m e!” and the
vanquished says, “I comply because I am unable to resist
at this moment, but always I reserve redress unto my­
self. The moment your power relaxes to hold what you
have wrested, I shall restore the equilibrium in circum­
stances as the latent power to do so may accrue to m e.”
<J W hat therefore happens in the nation that is van­
quished? It may be destroyed, it may be ground under
the heel of oppression, it may be left to resume its own
life under a system of tribute. But it cannot escape
the sense of obligation owed it by the conquering nation,
that will persist in natural traits and animosities, in sub­
versive revolutions and commercial antagonisms, in
abatements of privileges to the conquerors, socially and
personally, wherever opportunity offers in every phase
of antagonistic deportment that can be addressed to the
victors ±jr
A generation may die out. On both sides the children
of victors and vanquished take up the feud. It becomes
378
an historical tradition in the blood of both participants
and their progeny. Song and story w ill keep it alive.
Inherent laxities of conduct toward each other will per­
petuate it. Even the infants on each side will feel it
incumbent to hurl stones and epithets at one another.
Laws of equity have been violated and the balance must
be restored, else no peace com es that is really peace.
<J A feud may even be forgiven but deep in the sub­
conscious memories of each race will galvanize certain
evidences of the original mischief, when those who
suffer from it have ceased to becom e aware of its origin.
It is like a brook flowing to the sea. It may be dammed
and diverted, it m ay be mingled with the waters of a
lake and its identity seem ingly be lost, yet never once
does it cease to be an amount of water that is progressing
inexorably toward the ocean.
Present-day society is recovering gradually from a
graphic illustration of this truth. Fifty years or more
bygone, Bismarck sought and found an excuse to
descend on France and wrest Alsace-Lorraine as part of
his program for building up the German Empire. W ho
dares to say that the world war would have been fought
had the German Empire not been built up on such prac­
tices? W ould France have cherished her hatred that
kept Germany— and thus Europe— an armed camp
through two generations and finally brought those arms
into use, had Germany not said to her back in 1872,
“G ive to m e because I am strong enough to take,” al­
though not always is a wrong of such nature redressed
379
between nations so quickly t ?
Searching back for historical motivations, Germany
made her seeming monstrous reparations payments be­
cause Bismarck and his policies were the greatest com­
bination of two stupidities, allowed to exhibit in Europe
since the silly rampages of the Corsican. And the Cor­
sican himself— writing finally on St. Helena— confessed
his mistakes, the greatest of them being that there is any­
thing to be permanently gained at the point of the sword.
<J “The spirit of the temporarily conquered peoples
brought all my labors to naught,” he admitted in
principle 3%r
Human nature is so constituted that it only forgives
wrongs as they are redressed. The nations which have
so suddenly ceased to hate Germany— America specific­
ally— are those whose wrongs have been redressed, or
who have come to acquire an enlightenment as to the
true natures and purposes of those who precipitated the
war for their selfish enhancements.
This is not because human nature is essentially vindic­
tive, for vindictiveness must have a reasonable definition
based on a cause. It lies in the fact that human life is
amenable to the great fundamental Law of Compensa­
tion, and when that law is violated, something is wrong.
Human nature does not always realize what causes the
wrong, but it does feel the effects of it in destiny. So it
seeks readjustment blindly and w e have social turmoil.
Given a number of people—from two in a group to a
million in a nation— suffering from the porcine behavior
380
of another group or nation, and you will have social
turmoil whether or not it appears on the surface for
daily accounting thereof. Social animosities are deep,
deep. They are always premised on som e sort of read­
justment delayed.
You cannot have two nations injuring one another, even
to the cut on a finger of the least of its subjects, without
instigating a force that must first be accredited, then
abolished ip ip
Christ in His great mission did not say “A n eye for an
eye and a tooth for a tooth” as Moses did. H e said,
“Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.”
But what was H e concerned in? . . . merely dealing in
positive spiritual values instead of expressing Himself
by the negative. H e could not have said, “Go away and
forget your enem y, paying no attention to him for his
inroads upon you,” for that would have been unnatural.
It would not have satisfied the Law of Compensation.
Christ said, “Compensate in other values, values that
are more positive and constructive and for the higher
spiritual profit of the group.”
The race knew that an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a
tooth, satisfied something within it far deeper than in-
tellectualism, that was appeased by vindictive violence.
I say again, Jesus of Nazareth expounded the Law in
terms of positivism and compassion instead of in vicious­
ness and hatred. Note that H e never sought to abolish
the law nor tried to circumvent it.
W hen w e come to the conduct of nations toward one
381
another, w e see the Law stand out nakedly, like a pillar
of fire in darkened heavens. W e see the vanquished
carrying within themselves the seeds of discontent
through generation after generation, until the victory
for the conquerors resolves itself into nothing but a
vigilance, more cruel toward the victors than it is toward
the vanquished.
W hen the nations of the earth have fully recognized
this principle they will have fully coded international
law!
Let us tackle this problem for a moment from still
another angle, calling to our aid our previous concept of
Constitutional Law as laid down in the foregoing
pages. . . .
ATIONS are like children. They think
in fundamentals, they display in ele­
m en tal. They give heed to principles
more than to technicalities. W hat w e
really mean, therefore, when w e speak of
coding international law, is not the admission in writing
of fundamental principles or elemental actualities. It
is the recoding for posterity of concurrent technicalities
in the transmission of public endowments to the indi­
vidual intellect or individual reactionism. For bear in
mind that the individual is always practical. That is to
say, he cannot deal in generalities for personal applica­
tion. Being practical means trafficking in values of im­
mediate and personal profit unto the self. H e m ay know
382
that food is beneficial to his organism, but he is more
concerned in the method for getting it onto his table
and thence into his mouth.
G iven a dish of international food— to continue the
metaphor— beneficial for the organism of interna­
tionality, how will the various eaters partake of it ? The
process ceases to be a generalization and becom es one
of technical application.
This is not a coding of law, but a seeking for expedients,
and a transcript for preservation of the processes in­
volved. So, startling as the statement m ay seem, this
principle is true—
International Law is already coded in the hearts of men
of every race!
Nationals of every color know that they want to be dealt
with, nationally, as they would be dealt with as groups
or individuals. But as groups or indivdiuals they may
not have the power for procrastination of penalties.
Nevertheless, the desire is there in the group or the in­
dividual for treatment in equity.
This desire is coded International Law!
It is not coded on sheepskin in words. It is coded in
human consciousness and ideas. Technicalities of appli­
cation are something else again.
Frequently w e have a condition in society where men
rise above the problems of birth and environment and
make them selves masters of tribulation and disaster.
That is not an abolition of the Law of Compensation but
rather a dispensation of it, and such dispensation was
the crux of Christ’s doctrine of Non-Resistance. But to
say that rising above tribulation and disaster is the law
either for nations or for individuals, is to circumvent the
law itself. Law never can be circumvented. It is un­
touchable, to say nothing of unalterable by human de­
sires, human passions, even human legislation. Consider
this profoundly.
Law was before the human race was. Law will be when
the human race has completely altered in identity and
returned unto the Godhead from which it was derived
in millenniums bygone.
Our operations in jurisprudence are merely the recipes
for the technical transactions of social behaviorisms.
Until this point is clearly understood w e shall have
tumults and confusions with the greatest vitality among
groups and nationals.
Constitutional Law, we have seen, is the acknowledg­
ment by groups or nationals— en masse— as to what is
most appropriate to bring the greatest benefits to the
greatest numbers. When it goes into the highways and
byways and applies itself to the daily activities of the in­
dividual human unit, we translate it into terms of what
we call Politics.
Following this reasoning in the application of constitu­
tional jurisprudence among national groups, w e arrive
at the necessity for similar application and find our­
selves confronting the same problem of personal appli­
cation which consistently must be termed International
Politics. But even as. there is a gross misinterpretation
384
among the smallest sectional groups as to the truthful
essence of Politics and its pristine offices, so there is a
similar misapplication of the larger term in international
relationships it* 1?
A ll of us are prone to think of International Politics as a
sort of sublimated ward-heeler’s practices— that is to
say, precinct chicane on an international scale. This too
is nonsense, even as many of our concepts of interna­
tional law are nonsense.
Politics is the clean application of majority preferences,
transcribed in terms of group intelligence and obedience.
This recipe is applicable to internationality in exactly the
ratio that the nation is vaster in importance than the
individual it*
The huckstering of the so-called statesman for petty ad­
vantages is far from being Politics, quite as far as the
principles of Christ are demarked from the tribal retri­
bution of savagery. So-called world-statesmen are too
often merely glorified ward-heelers who because of their
high offices are so inflated in their own esteem by the
plaudits of the multitude that they conceive their works
in terms of immortalities. Nothing could be falser.
Many a slum worker bringing a bag of Christmas provi­
sions into a city tenement is a profounder world states­
man than a cantor of world policies with the mentality
and altruism of a corner saloon-keeper seated in the chair
of a prime minister.
Human values are always world values. A man who
goes to and fro about his work in life, ordering his ways
385
to conform to social dictates, loving his neighbors and
supporting his family, is of more value to eternity— not
to mention internationality— than a dozen Genghis
Khans or a thousand Cromwells. That is not saying
that the Khans and the Cromwells have not their parts
to play in society and history, quite as necessary and
effective as the humble artisan who practices Christ’s
precepts in his daily life. But of the two, the humble
citizen ordering his ways according to the Law of Com­
pensation as hereinbefore set forth, is the better fitted
to occupy the prime minister’s chair, regardles of his
erudition or lack of it. Not that leaders must be nin­
compoops in order to qualify as leaders, but that Khans
and Cromwells may recognize that true leadership is ad­
herence to social laws in the universe as adamant as the
laws of velocity or physical carelessness.
386
THE TWENTY-SIXTH DISCUSSION
N A T I O N S - IN - L A W
TH E TW ENTY-SIXTH DISCUSSION
HEN MANKIND arrives at a
certain stage of spiritual de­
velopment he is prone to ask
himself some tremendous ques­
tions. One of them is: “H ow
comes it that I— a reasoning
human being endowed with all
my faculties, and quasi-divine
in m y essence— find m yself be­
holden to elemental principles in whose origin seem­
ingly I had no part ? H ow have I arrived at a condition
of affairs where I am the prey or shuttlecock of tre­
mendous forces that say I shall do this or be damaged,
or do that and perish? W ho set these great principles
at work? W ho determined m y spiritual comings and
goings in flesh? W hat forces now operate, that involve
me helplessly when I transgress their obvious fiats?”
These are fair questions and man would not be a
reasoning creature, imbued with such divinity, if he did
not ask them.
Man says to himself: “I am on this planet at the play of
Intelligence which I cannot comprehend.” For want of
389
a better term, he designates this Intelligence as “God”—
a word which is the contraction of “good.”
There is nothing wrong with the appellation. There is
nothing erroneous in his general concept of the Deity as
such. But when he says to him self: “These vicissitudes
which I suffer, and these laws which I am forced to obey,
make me the plaything of the Alm ighty,” he is going
far afield in irrationality.
Let us examine his attitude. . . .
H e thinks he is the "plaything” of the Almighty. W hat
does he mean? The Alm ighty has evidently been guilty
of caprice if man is His plaything, for play implies
caprice without constructive purpose. Man therefore
designates himself as an object of caprice. Yet how can
this be so when out of such caprice comes intelligent and
constructive experience making for his spiritual and
physical betterment?
If man could foresee everything due to happen to him
in his physical existence or span of life, would he derive
any reed profit from it?
The question is debatable.
There are those who know their careers in advance, but
invariably they are souls of such age and poise that a
knowledge of their future experiences in life does
not act on them abortively. In other words, it does
not cause them to dodge life’s issues or seek to avoid
seeming calamities that in the physical or mental sense
may be painful in expression.
The great mass of mankind, however, is not so poised.
390
It seems to be toiling up the tortuous mountain of ex­
perience in order to witness the spiritual glories to be
enjoyed upon its summit. It has small knowledge— ac­
curately—of future events, because of its childish
cowardice, or fear of pain, which would impel it to avoid
exactly those experiences most needed for development.
€f This process is divine in its munificence.
There are those of us, followers of no cult, who have
reason to accept that it consists of a series of rebirths
into flesh, each birth being a social station, a little higher
and more refined than the last in its effects on human
character. These stations are progressive and lead al­
ways up the mountain, unless the individual deliberately
elects to jump off the passing precipice into the disaster
of utter darkness. Up, up, up each soul is climbing,
growing more and more proficient in its spiritual facul­
ties, until it is a Christ Force in its own right, capable
of assuming charge of planetary systems yet uncreated.
<J W here, too, many earnest people go astray in their
reasonings against this hypothesis, is in confusing
earthly prestige— or notoriety— with spiritual valua­
tions. People are prone to reason from the physical,
or worldly, standpoint that if one has been a
famous personage in one life, he must go on being
famous personages throughout all succeeding lives or
the whole structure collapses— not only famous person­
ages but personages whose social achievements in each
age are ever higher than those in his last.
The idea is, I assume, that the capabilities which made
391
a soul famous in one birth would operate to make him
famous in all births. But they are provincials who thus
decide. They attach importance solely to those person­
ages who in times past have led in—
—
or been associated
with— certain events that have kept them notable in
recorded history, forgetting that veritable fiends of such
tenor as some of the degenerate Roman emperors have
been similarly perpetuated, and that notoriety, either in
the present or the past, may be a phase of, but never is,
the essence of spiritual refinement.
To use a comic metaphor, Julius Caesar might decide to
enhance his spiritual development by manipulating to
get himself born in an East Side tenement and follow the
vocation of a Swede janitor for one life’s experience.
He would doubtless manifest all the Caesarian traits as
an apartment house janitor— something, of course, with
which the average New Yorker is not exactly unfamiliar
— but because he had once been the Julius Caesar is no
premise to expect that in every generation in which he
appears he must head a replica of the famous Tenth
Legion or rule greater federations of States than the one-
time Roman Empire.
What really then, is the individual soul actually learn­
ing? Not necessarily how to preserve its identity in the
face of divine caprice that would dangle it for mad enter­
tainment on the brink of the various chasms of circum­
stance. Is it not tenable and plausible that the soul is
going to school for a mighty purpose— namely, to learn
the laws of Cause and Effect, that it may instruct others
392
aeons hence in the workings of those same laws, and
ceasing to be pupils, become instead instructors in the
most advanced types of self-ennoblement?
This cannot be madness, neither is it the bizarre exposi­
tion of any theological hypothesis. It is the rational con­
clusion to be drawn from the phenomenon of human
character as w e find it in its various stages and stations
all about us from day to day.
The child at school resents disciplining. Doubtless it
believes the teacher to be a tyrant, and the schoolboard
to be anathema to its happiness and welfare spiritually.
It sees no merit in daily confinement in a schoolroom, it
hates the dictates of its elders and remonstrates with
those who would convince it of the practicality of such
discipline in later years, when it takes its place as a com­
ponent part of the group.
H ow then shall w e consider the child, but as a prototype
of the earthly adult who remonstrates with society— and
the Deity— for enforcing principles and laws that are
equally good for it in aeons yet to come?
This may be an exotic interjection— again I say— and
smack of mysticism in a book of this character. But
nevertheless, there are those of us who have to take
these things into consideration in studying such stu­
pendous phases in human relationships as principles and
laws which dictate the behavior of groups.
I can only call attention here to this glaring fact: The
Divine Discipline is upon us, and w e are beholden to it.
W e seek good for ourselves and our children. W e resent
393
what w e do not understand and are cowed or affrighted
by that which lies beyond our immediate interpretation.
Human erudition since the dawn of earthly time has
brought forth no other explanation worthy of credence
for human experience as we perceive it. On the other
hand, great libraries are in existence containing the most
overwhelming evidence of its certainty for those who
would investigate the validity of the theory in circum­
stances.
2s§a3 OW THEN, coming back to Constitutional
and International Law, what do we find
when we consider people in such unit
groups as nations? C
JThat nations them­
selves are made up of unit groups is a
platitude. But that human beings are anything else
than group consciousness, exercising its nationalisms in
terms of world order and calling it International Law, is
not a platitude.
Far, far from it.
It is a tenet of the most vigorous originality.
We must think of nations as spiritual groups with
theories of life, impacting on one another and gaining
thereby in experience, exactly as we think of human be­
ings as spiritual entities gaining most profit individually
by belonging to a group.
Until that stage of logic is universal, we are not going to
understand or interpret internationality. And we must
understand and accept internationality, or violate the
394
Politics as politics, further, is the translating of the group
erudition into expedients, for universal unit-acceptance
and utility.
Man never yet made a law! He has only written or
coded interpretations of how he chooses to respond to
the eternal verities.
He has no desire to further his own progress by giving
himself as a unit to those verities cheerfully; he only
does it under the group lashing, for preservation of the
group or the species. H e gives himself with apparent
willingness, only so long as he discerns a personal profit
in some form of physical security or mental tranquillity.
He has no desire to better himself for the sake of better­
ment; he has to be driven to it by mentors, or race
leaders, making him to see what he could be by recog­
nizing what he is.
He opens the door of his spirit to intelligence, and social
solidarity, only because he is made to do so by the laws
of cause and effect operating within the group conscious­
ness, or sometimes the result of it.
H e makes unto himself palaces of marble because he
sees the physical or spiritual enjoyment derived from
such a habitation on the part of others who outstrip him
intellectually j%f jfe*1
He is a child in school, remonstrating against wiser
heads that know what education is all about and why
it is necessary.
Coming to Constitutional Law applied internationally
therefore, w e find mankind arguing over the projection
396
of something that has already been projected and is
older than his species. W e find him misinterpreting law
for application of law in this specific instance. W e find
him making mountains out of molehills, and battleships
out of row-boats. W e find him playing with his thumbs
and thinking he has discovered something new in
anatom y 5? t?
International law is nothing but group consciousness
applicable to immense numbers, or constitutional recog­
nitions of jurisprudence applicable to those of all creeds
and bloods.
W e have, then, to consider it from the standpoint of the
ward-heeler’s practices enforced by the policeman’s
nightstick. . . .
397
THE TWENTY-SEVENTH DISCUSSION
N A T I O NS - 1N - L A W
±jr TH E TW ENTY-SEVENTH DISCUSSION
H A V E said that Constitutional
Law embraces more than a
written document giving life to
a State, or to a series of States.
It is the modus operandi by
which people of a given turn of
mind declare the kind of gov­
ernment under which they shall
live, tj It is more. It says that
humankind as individuals has certain inalienable rights
that the mass is bound to respect. It says that human­
kind can do thus-and-so— which implies, none the less,
that its functionings as individuals also are limited.
Specifications as to an office always imply the limitations
of that office— or rather, that the office has limitations.
That is a broad principle of Common Law.
Specifications are given that the nature of an office may
be described and understood.
The giving of rights to an individual, or an organization,
implies the taking away of other rights which would not
be called into question if the first were not projected.
The logic of this is irrefutable. W e have laws making
401
for the permanence of the American Union. Those laws
say that a man, or a State, may do a certain thing. The
thing may be good or bad in its ultimate result, but that
which is projected is projected because of qualifying cir­
cumstances functioning negatively as well as positively.
{J Here, then, is the argument: A set of circumstances
empower a man with certain liberties. He exercises
those liberties. A point comes in such liberties where
the exercising of them infringes on the rights of others.
Thereat comes an impasse where the liberties so speci­
fied cease to be positive and become negative. The
moment they do that, qualification is necessary in terms
of limitation. So the law that adjudged a liberty and
defined it, defines its limitations. And limitations in
turn demand interpretation. Thus a positive law always
carries a negative interpretation, and a negative interpre­
tation is a circumscription of power or office.
Applying this argument to inalienable rights under a
Constitution, w e discover ourselves constantly inter­
preting, not positivisms but negations.
Every law, carrying its positive and negative factors, im­
plies that inalienable rights are never such— a paradox
that is the essence of all true law.
Law does not give power, since power is power of itself.
Circumscription of power is law, instead, on any plane
of social activity.
A law may say, “This thing you may do,” and it might
seem to transmit power thereby to the doer. But in
performance in reality, it says, "This thing you can
402
do to the following point and not beyond that point.”
The character of law, therefore, must be more negative
than positive.
Inalienable rights as such— in perpetuity— would be
rights which took no account of qualifying factors aris­
ing after such rights were bestowed. They might bring
social chaos, if society reached a point where any m an’s
inalienable rights injured every other man’s inalienable
rights. The mere fact that w e describe them as inalien­
able rights implies in itself that perhaps they are not.
<| To say that inalienable rights are only those which do
no harm to one’s fellows is an utter fallacy as well.
Injury m ay be caused by any sort of excess or intemper­
ance in specifying one’s inalienable rights too gener­
ously, as much as by exercising an uncurbed appetite
for a food or a drug.
It is every m an’s inalienable right to eat food to sustain
life, or to receive drugs under a physician’s direction to
assuage physical agony. But excessive use of food or
drink poisons the system and may cause whole com­
munities to retrograde, physically or mentally. Many
kinds of drugs cannot be taken promiscuously without
wreaking harm on public life generally. A t som e point
therefore, so-called inalienable rights cease to be such
and become usurpation.
I maintain that it is the province of Law to set these
stakes— specific statutes in the case of the individual,
and constitutional decrees for States and principalities.
•J Constitutional Law therefore is by its essence inter-
403
pretative always. It cannot be held to a hard and fast
pattern any more than human nature can be so held in
its evolution, else it defeats its own purpose. It becomes
stagnant and useless.
The interpretation of a Constitution therefore, is the
Constitution in action!
W e have states in society which say that Law is to curb
excess in any form. But it is also to galvanize impulses
— and urges— which otherwise would not be vented.
Thus the recent Prohibition Law while introvert in prin­
ciple, also attempted to motivate Temperance— accord­
ing to its sponsors. But I hold that this sort of thing is
a tragic mistake. It is responsible for more disrespect
for law than any other factor bearing on jurisprudence
as Law in action.
To say that a negative law, or a circumscribed law, is
also positive and constructive, would seem to be a
mirror-like expression of our recent paradox. But does
this hold? Let us reason together again and see. . . .
Human nature is so constituted that it would run
amuck in self-assertion if it were not curbed by social
statutes. Every man with a grievance against his neigh­
bor would feel free to slay him indiscriminately. Every
man desiring another man’s w ife would take her inso­
lently— if he were strong enough physically to accom­
plish it. Every man having a vast fortune would over­
turn society at his whim by the debasing of public char­
acters according to their venality and his willingness to
buy his end in infamy.
404
These urges are basic and rest upon the evolution of
individualism. But individualism gains no end when
it pulls down the social structure upon its own head.
Human nature quickly recognizes that it cannot make
progress unless mind cooperates with mind— as 1 have
expressed in a former chapter.
Human nature therefore is both positive and negative
even in its self-assertions. To say, however, that a law
may galvanize constructively while limiting or demark­
ing, is not the same thing in substance.
Laws give power for the individual or organization, but
it is the power of capacity— not the force of action.
Laws give structures on which to build the walls of self-
expression, but they do not actually perform the build­
ing— men must do that for themselves.
Laws which bound, therefore, cannot galvanize con­
structively because they are encompassing but not force­
ful. The two qualifications are different in essence.
Because this is so, men cannot be galvanized by law.
They can be galvanized by threat of punishment under
a law, but that too is negation of a sort since it implies
police regulation— which is again limitation.
Laws are not meant to have creative power else they
could not be laws, but would become manifestations of
divine Providence. God cannot say, “Be good!” and
propound it as a law to man, since being good is a
creative act on the part of the living entity toward one’s
self Jfe* ±*
Laws aiming at the public good are never good of them-
405
selves, therefore; they simply limit the prescribed power
of evil forces, allowing human nature to do its own
creating, devoid of destructive influence working
against it.
Here it may be necessary to interject a qualification
concerning Law as such, despite other definitions given
earlier in these volumes. Because all that I am saying
now is essentially apropos of Law in its larger inter­
national aspects.
Too much confusion exists all over the earth as to what
Law is, anyhow. Law is not a prescription for con­
structive effort in the body politic— which is just where
the would-be international law coders go astray. We
often misterm such prescriptions “laws” because they
are decreed or enacted by legislative powers. These are
really attributes of the social consciousness in action
toward a beneficent end, and, as such, they are no
more laws than so many guide-posts at so many
road-forks i p i p
True law is always a codification of human conduct!
C| Speaking with authority is empty wordage unless the
address be consistent with human reason and circum­
stance. Nevertheless, certain abstract principles are
recognizable as authoritative because of their inherent
truth ± p i p
On this basis I declare the statement to be authoritative
that law is only Law when it codifies human conduct in
relation to living entities. And such codification is
always negative— and circumscribing— even when it is
406
positive and attributive in surface inidcation A* tsf
Let m e put this in another w a y : W hen you propound a
law that says, “Man shall live at peace with his neigh­
bor,” you also say, “Kill man at your peril.” W hen you
propound a law that says, “You shall be temperate,” you
are saying in effect, “Be intemperate at the penalty of
the body politic.” You cannot state a law in terms of
constructive positivism without requiring or implying
some sort of negative penalty.
This is because the essence of Law is always lim itation!
CONSTITUTIONAL law, w e have seen, is
the body politic’s decreeing what shall be­
come mandatory for the greatest good of
the greatest numbers. It is forever inter­
pretative— an expounding of the princi­
ples of agreement under this head. Constitutional Law
goes further, however, and says, “Great numbers of
people have diverse interests as opposed to other num­
bers, equally great. W hat shall w e do about it? W e shall
find bases of settlement of our troubles and social com­
plications by consulting together on what is best from
the common viewpoint. And as common viewpoint
must be always in evolution— even as the forces that
effect it are also in evolution— taking a man or a State
and putting thumbscrews on either is policing in either
case. Subscribing to broad fundamental principles laid
down by mass concept, is something else again, and
that in essence is true Constitutional Law, but always
407
negative and circumscribing in its ultimate attainment.*’
€| I would leave no one thinking, however, that the ef­
fects of such enactments are necessarily negative. One
of the greatest paradoxes of jurisprudence is that a
negative limitation can bring about a positive attribution
in its effect on social forces— which may seem confusing
for the moment after our former sequence of reasoning,
but which carries no confusion when it is applied to any
concrete illustration, i f
The Fathers who wrote the American Constitution took
Magna Carta and the Rights of Man and welded them
into as nearly a national instrument as the general erudi­
tion of the times permitted. A period of the wildest
radicalism ensued, in which State agencies did their
utmost to obstruct and nullify the broadest aspects of
this mass determination to make Magna Carta a political
instrument. This came about because of individual ir­
responsibilities, blindness to true self-interest, negation
of self-evident witnessings of evils and a general re­
action by the people of the period to an authority too
centralized and effective.
A ll the arguments, fears, obstructions, alarms, and scat­
terbrain acclaimings that now attend against America’s
joining any world court, or league of nations, are by no
means original with present-day disputants. Page after
page of Alexander Ham ilton’s “Federalist” recites pos­
tulations, diatribes, and rancors against a centralized
federal authority that read like a current senatorial de­
bate reported in the Congressional Record against any
408
form of participation in foreign organizations that would
disrupt or menace our present isolation.
This Constitutional Period, as w e now call it, was made
up of sophisms, political derogations, animalistic greeds,
civic usurpations, and the desire on the part of the public
to shape its own political destiny by districts without
adequate scholastic background to ballast popular con­
cepts of what Government is in its essence.
Man said: “W e would free ourselves from tyranny.”
In his ignorance he saddled upon himself the greatest
tyranny of all: Artful lawlessness, and flagrant discredit
of his own elected representatives.
Men said: “W e will have no part nor parcel in the ex­
ploded theory of the divine right of monarchs.” So they
showed their disregard of monarchy by patterning after
monarchy in their own individual behaviors.
They said: “W e will erect a new government, con­
ceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that
all men are created equal.” W hereupon they turned
about and concocted a government that has now come
to treat its devotees, and most loyal supporters, as serfs
and mutes—with true liberty and equality only for him
who has the fattest purse.
Great brains came forward and manifested their quali­
fications by bringing order and prestige out of license,
privilege, and libertinism. They marked and demarked
those pathways along which society should travel, to­
wards self-sustainment and consistent privilege toward
opportunity jfc*’
409
The framers of the Constitution at no time deluded
themselves that they were creating anything new, or
making a concordance of political doctrine that should
meet every emergency that ever arose in the American
nation. They knew their own fallibilities. They knew
that men were men first, and political units second. They
knew that need might arise for all manner of flexibility
in interpretation of what they believed to be the best
concordance of human rights produced up to that era.
They never had a thought that the American Constitu­
tion was the last word in government— demagogues to
the contrary notwithstanding. They said: “W e have
witnessed certain evils in other governments to date and
would avoid them. This is how w e would avoid them.
But our children’s children may see that w e have been
in error, therefore amendments to this instrument may
be supernal wisdom. W e project this doctrine as the
best thought of this period, admitting our inability to
cover every dilemma which shall arise under the law
which this instrument stabilizes as a certificate of mun­
dane principles that must ever have their bases in ex­
pediency”
These framers of our Constitution were w ise men—
naturally. They had few axes to grind, or wounds of
their own vanity to heal. They gave the best they had
to this great instrument and left it to their children to
show equal wisdom in the application of their funda­
mental concepts of political truths. Those children,
however, have not kept the faith nor shown such wis-
410
dom. They have assumed that because their forefathers
were their forefathers, they were naturally the more
erudite and expert as political economists. They have
grossly neglected the vitality of their Constitution by
permitting it to become surrounded with an aura of
mysticism, as an answer to their own indolence and lack
of perception of unfolding requirements of those who
now live or follow after. Supinely they have allowed
aliens reared in the antithesis of constitutionalism to
supplant them in councils of State, and influence con­
stitutional decree in alien favor.
The end and aim of such phlegmatism and unworthi­
ness, is to make dogma serve for spirituality, and form
for spirit. They, the children, have prostituted their own
intelligence by saying that the forefathers were the
wiser. They have looked on life and found it more or
less pleasant. It has never occurred to them that vigi­
lance and improvement were obligations— not profanity
of the fathers’ doctrines. They see life as devoid of
the fathers’ problems and therefore the fathers’ doc­
trines are responsible for making life what they find it.
They do not discern that other agencies and principles
have been responsible for the American government as
they now know and castigate it.
They see life as an increasing unfoldment, whereby an
adherence to the principles and precepts of the fathers
will be a perpetual assurance of longevity of enjoyment
under it. They are not concerned with problems but
with saxophones. They are not concerned with Politics
411
but with the loot of political parties. They have small
desire to serve; they wish to be served. They acknowl­
edge their indebtedness to political principles but think
that no effort needs to be made to discover new prin­
ciples and apply them to current problems.
They are politically lazy, and civically lethargic.
They ride the calliope of selfishness not realizing that
the calliope is usually at the end of the social parade
€| W e have problems confronting us in America today
so titanic that if the fathers could return as they once
were, and behold them, they would be stricken with a
sort of terror at the danger to the institutions to which
they gave so much.
Constitutional Law as a cure for those dangers, how­
ever, is only of value as it prescribes the principles under
which solution may be found. But going back again to
the fathers, no amount of principles can be forever ade­
quate when the needs and deeds of the children are cir­
cumscribed by their own inefficiencies of administration.
C
j[ You cannot have a government under a Constitution
— or any other form of civil control— unless you have
the persons willing to consider its ramifications as vital
to their own well being, and not only recognize this but
believe and practice it.
Constitutional law today is in disrepute, and its proper
and timely application as a premise for international law
as a living force among the nations, is affected, not be­
cause it makes impossible demands on human nature—
or that human nature has altered in its basic tenor— but
412
because the average individual has not sensed the in­
sidious propaganda that has been carried on to discount
all law, and our own forms of law in particular, that are
antagonistic to the designs of vast numbers of plotting
aliens who would make us subservient to a Jewish Com­
munistic oligarchy and debauch our Christian culture to
serve the ends of their own spiritual decadence.
I would not have anyone think that life is merely an
endurance under some form of government, constitu­
tional or otherwise. But spiritual ennoblement requires
that human beings function to their maximum as human
units, while at the same time employing them selves as
members of the civic whole.
From both expressions of ethical culture do w e derive
that which is essential to our growth as souls.
To say that one is more important than the other is to
beg the issue. Both are equally important. But indi­
vidual awareness can only come about through the most
trenchant group relationships, group vigilance, and
group sagacity. And all these, conversely, are usually
predicated on the individual’s reactions to life as he per­
ceives it, and the exercise of his highest quality of con­
sciousness. Given a workable Constitution as a start­
ing-point for a government— and I allude here to a world
political form as much as to a form that serves for forty-
eight American States— the problem of those to be gov­
erned under it is not only to interpret themselves to
themselves but to discern that which is clandestinely sub­
versive to original principles.
413
Human nature needs beneficent discipline, whether it
come from its ow n will power, civic administration, a
national or international police force, the Sermon on the
Mount, or the manifested effects of subversion when it
has been allowed to mature in violence, spoliation, de­
struction and massacre. But you cannot drive human
nature into an interest in community laws, national
policies, or international postulations, by making more
laws, and emphatically not by derogating those already
made— or course referring to enacted statutes.
Laws are made by the consent of the governed, or the
fiats of some authority, for the purpose of aiding human
nature to realize itself and its concurrent opportunities
for social facility and spiritual ennoblement.
They are not instruments of progress but decrees of
limitations passed for constructive purposes, made from
human intelligence to enhance the pattern of beautiful
living and social solidarity without loss of individualism.
<| They are made by the masses out of their own self-
consciousness as to what is best for the greatest number,
and function only so long as a sense of social obligation
permeates down to the man in the street.
Trite and banal as some of these statements may seem,
they are so paramount— as underlying our national and
international predicament— that they seem to shrink the
individual, and lose him in the mass. They really do the
exact reverse. They make the individual the product of
the mass, and tumult ensues by the individual soul’s los­
ing a sense of his entity as an individual unit.
414
To take the cognizance of individual responsibility and
put it forth as a shibboleth of mass improvement, is the
most aggressive function of constitutional law— espe­
cially as applied to internationality. On this broad
premise, a premise that comprises all history of social
evolution and yet is no bigger than the individual man’s
soul, w e must build the coming mammoth international
structure— after the insidious propaganda for quite dif­
ferent ends has been recognized for what it is and has
been met with the permanent erasement which it merits.
€| Out of the welter of the conflict of the individual with
the group, has been born all Law, and the individual must
recognize this if he would eliminate conflict from his
daily activity. He must recognize the principle also that
only as he acts as an individual, yet with group
mentality, will he enhance his own spiritual progress
and make for utopia in society. Transpose the word
Nation for individual, and World Society for group, and
the principle not only holds up but is a thousand times
as potent. Of course there are those who do not want
the social utopia, but on the whole they are negligible
beside those vast numbers whose daily lives are a con­
crete expression of their yearning for a more inhabitable
earth. Until w e recognize that all society is but a coagu­
lation of individual souls seeking expression in group
forms, w e will probably have social confusion that re­
quires the sternest law enforcement, or the force of
limitation set at variance with their desires.
Humankind is a universal child, resenting the careful
415
parent who would keep it from the pitfalls of existence
yet complaining to that parent, and out of its own wilful­
ness, falling and being injured. Let us have a state of
society where every man realizes that the ills he suffers
are strictly self-imposed, and we will speedily cease to be
children in the phenomenon of self-government. W e
will cease to be children as nations, afraid to join hands
with one another for the supernal benefit of the species.
<1 And yet, when all is said and done, there must be
something deeper than individual indifference to such an
attainment—something deeper than political illiteracy,
something stronger than national vanity— that keeps the
nations from getting together even on an avowed Con­
stitutional basis, which up to 1929 had proven so suc­
cessful in the case of America.
How deep must we dig to unearth that Something, like
a vicious psychological complex, that we may realize our
Utopia on a speedier and more practical basis?
W hy is it that the Man in the Street cannot envision in­
ternationality in terms of his own well-being, in recog­
nizably enhanced economics, immunity from disastrous
international conflicts, and the spiritual conservation of
his species? Has he a deeply abiding perception of the
pitfalls that alien marplots Eire digging for his country?
Does he, as a citizen, truly worship the God of National
Isolation in his heart? What specific thing is needed to
geilvanize the interest of average humanity in a more
equitable form of World Management? Is the answer
so obvious that again we do not see this forest for trees?
416
THE TWENTY-EIGHTH DISCUSSION
N A T I O N S - IN - L A W
TH E TW ENTY-EIGHTH DISCUSSION t*
HERE are m any capable thinkers
w ho have concluded that man
as a species is gregarious but
not social. H e is imperious but
not kingly. H e has all of the
attributes of a god but few of a
god s graces— especially com­
passion or capacity for om­
nipotent thinking. They have
reached the conclusion that so long as this is so, it is
folly to talk about any aesthetic State in which the will
of the majority is of a reliable quality— taken either na­
tionally or internationally— able to adjudicate for hu­
mankind as races. They have decided that mankind
needs a sound thrashing to make it really human.
Furthermore, such thrashing must be administered
practically, or man sinks in the mire of his ow n ineffi­
ciency and unworthiness to be called a ruler of anything.
A s he is not yet capable of commanding his own soul,
how does mass action render him capable of command­
ing the group soul?
They claim, these thinkers, that man is inherently ani-
419
mal, that he responds instinctively to his bestial urges,
runs with the herd without herd obedience, makes of
himself generally a sociological maverick.
He is only social when it suits his animalism to be social.
H e is a great anarchist in his private spirit.
H e makes claims on the other fellow ’s liberties, but re­
sents any intrusion on his own.
H e follows no well-defined law in his own conduct ex­
cept self-interest and self-preservation.
He is more or less of a nuisance on a planet where all
other forces follow tenets of conduct that are positive in
cause and effect. Each man would become a law unto
himself if agencies above him in sagacity and wisdom
did not visit him with their periodic displeasure.
They are correct in this thinking— within certain limita­
tions. W here they fall down, is in failing to take into
consideration the true nature of man. They make a mis­
take both twofold and colossal: thinking of him as an
animal or creature of his instincts, or thinking of him as
a natural force that must follow blindly the dictates of
causation ip ip
I submit that whatever else man may be, he is not an
animal. H e m ay function in an animal body and this
body may behave from moment to moment from animal
reflexes. He may likewise be physically compelled, be­
cause of his automatism, to react to laws of natural
causation ip ip
Man, however, has a higher destiny than the animals,
and a higher objective than blindly following the courses
420
prescribed for inorganic matter. Man is a sublimated
ape only insofar as his body manifests. Inside that body,
and acting upon it, is something known as Spirit, and un­
til w e know what this phenomenon of creation is, how
it functions, and what its ultimate attainment is to be,
w e cannot discourse intelligently on the conduct of na­
tions— which are only collective groups of individuals.
€J The opening chapters of the Bible inform us that man
was created in the “image” of God. People who have
never given very much examination to the subject, in­
terpret this to mean that because man is found function­
ing today as a sublimated ape, that God Himself is an
enlarged replica of this sublimated ape form.
This replica is seriously referred to as the Anthropo­
morphic God j%t
The human mind, being the accretion of sense percep­
tions, is so constituted that it can only conceive in terms
of form. To it, God as an abstract principle, has been,
is now, and ever will be, unthinkable. So the early theo­
logians gave Him a voice to admonish man, or an arm
to hurl thunderbolts, or legs to “walk in the Garden in
the cool of the day.” And yet, further along in the
same Scriptures the expression is graphic that God is
Spirit ±* i?
Now what is Spirit ?
W e speak of the Spirit of Fair Play, the Spirit of Kind­
ness, the Spirit of Anger, the Spirit of Selfishness. W hy
do w e have such metaphors? From whence do they
come? W hy should w e perpetuate them in modern
421
daily speech? Spirit is the essence of the thing ex­
pounded— the circumscription of an idea in terms of
human understanding.
Spirit is not the ghost of a thing, although we commonly
refer to the shades as spirits. Spirit is the Logos of
Understanding, and when w e have said that, w e have
said a whole library of celestial definition.
The spirit of a thing is its essence. There is no spirit
without essence. Spirit is that part of any form, or
order of creation, that embodies the Essential Idea of
the divine expression in that creation. It is the alpha
and omega of understanding applied to a substance-
quality. It has no beginning and can have no end .£*■
tj The spirit of good-fellowship, for instance, is unbeat­
able. It has always been, and it always will be, though
not a single mortal ever be alive to practice it. Now the
strange part is— and a fact continually overlooked by
speculative minds— that the Spirit of anything can actu­
ally have consciousness as w e commonly interpret con­
sciousness, or that its very consciousness is its interpre­
tation of creation.
Man, being finite, carries around the idea that nothing
is consciously alive but his own perceiving brain. He
misses the fact that brain as brain is only a set of nerves
and tissues. It can die and change substance. W e say
it “loses consciousness,” but Brain is far from being
what men think. '
Brain is merely the coagulation of sense-nerves that
have the physiological potency to transfer their percep-
422
tions to the Something in man that is the essence of his
entity— something that, for want of a better term, w e
call by the Greek term Psyche.
Conversely, the Something in man that is the essence of
his entity, operates through his brain to manipulate his
animal body i!*
W hat can that Something in man be, but Continuous
Thought? W e often refer to it as “the stream of con­
sciousness,” as though the Stream of Consciousness
were something apart from man, som ething occurring
within his body, like the beat of his heart or the growth
of his hair.
W e totally overlook the fact that perhaps the Stream of
Consciousness is man in his true essence, and that the
Stream of Consciousness as man in his true essence may
operate independently of physical organism.
If the Stream of Consciousness wished to manifest
physically, or receive physical sensation, it would
naturally function through a physical brain, and by a
physical body existent in a materialistic world. But the
Stream of Consciousness m ay by no means need a
physical organism to operate on other levels, or in other
spheres, or at other velocities, or in other manifestations
than the physical.
The Stream of Consciousness is.
It endures because it is a created Something in, and of,
itself Ajr
This, to m y w ay of thinking, is the literal “image of
God”i^r
423
W e say clumsily, that God is Thought Incarnate. W e
say that man was created in His image. Putting the two
together— or rather comparing the two— w e then have
a replica or model of Thought Incarnate in this man-
phenomenon, functioning as the individual’s Stream of
Consciousness, the essence of individual man that is his
spirit jfcjr
Because man, in his physical state, is not physically con­
scious of his Stream of Consciousness at other velocities
than that of Substance, or on other planes than those
of the physical, does not mean that the Stream of Con­
sciousness does not maintain.
I say that the Stream of Consciousness is man himself
as an individual, only available to himself in self-aware­
ness on the plane on which he is functioning at the
moment _£* t$r
A man on the physical plane may function sixteen hours
out of the twenty-four through his physical brain. Then
he m ay lie down on his bed and function in Essence for
eight hours on a wholly different plane, much higher
than the physical. He has the same identity in both in­
stances, but manifests in two or more totally different
states of Being, both or all of which retain their ow n
Streams of Memory but neither of which is known fully
to the other.
W hen this is clearly understood by practical psycholo­
gists as well as by so-called metaphysicians, much in
man’s nature and behavior that is now enigmatic will be
accounted for. The argument advanced by som e ma-
424
terialistic critics that unless the two Memory Streams are
known to each other there is no concrete profit to the
individual, is an abstract speculation without basis in
logic, since the values accrue only to spirit in terms of
spiritual refinement, no matter from what plane they
may be derived.
Spiritual refinement is never dependent on locality. So
long as this spiritual refinement displays practically in
the spiritual texture, what matters it how or whence it
was derived? t}*
Man is only an animal as he utilizes the body-form of
the sublimated ape on a physical level for self-expression
— and the receiving of the lessons of physical, percep­
tional experience. H e is spiritual in the sense that he
lives a life entirely separate from his physical instru­
mentality. H e has always done it, he always will do it.
€J W hen he no longer practices in the material velocity
as an entity— that is, when he permanently discards the
physical instrumentality for expression— w e say that
he is “dead.” But the essence of himself is not dead.
The essence of him can no more die than the abstract
concept of the Spirit of Good Fellowship can die as an
idea £«
Now then, take man not as a physical organism but as
the Spirit of Conscious Perception, able to function at
his own caprice wherever Thought can function, and
consider what happens when he finds himself exhibiting
in the clum sy apparatus of earthly mortality.
He is essentially a creature of caprice in that Abstract
425
Thought is rampant, can go where it pleases, and con­
ceive of what it pleases. But only as it goes down into
fleshly form and manifests physically in all the sensa­
tions, handicaps, and disciplinary interclusions of
worldly residence, can the individual Thought Stream
know constructive self-control.
Given a world of cause and effect, pleasure and pain,
joy and sorrow, into which the rampant Thought-Es­
sence is, from the mundane viewpoint, plunged more
or less promiscuously, w e have a structure that fulfils
the loving purpose of benefiting that which is projected
into it. Consider now the machinery involved!, the
processes employed, and the ends and aims effected J% f
<| These machineries, these processes, these ends and
aims, must have laws to work by, else we could never
identify them for what they are.
A mechanical ensemble is known for what it produces.
This positive production may be termed the “law of the
machine,” identifying it as separate and distinct from
every other type of machine. Every earthly process,
no matter how complicated, is shaped and molded by
an identifying medium that can be called the “law of the
process.” Every end and aim that concerns human
activity as such, and is recognized as such, fulfils—or is
the outcome of— an orderly trend of events in circum­
stances that we call the “law of happenings."
Where then does this lead us, when humankind as the
essence of a manifesting Thought Stream suddenly em­
ploys a physical organism to bring benefit of some sort
426
to itself? W here but this: that the essential Thought
Stream that is individuality, is demonstrating the fact of
“law” in and unto itself, in Law’s purest form:
Identity 2jjf t?
Now the law governing Identity is one of the pro-
foundest in all Nature. It has for its purpose the dis­
tinction of different Thought Streams for different ob­
jectives. Each one of these Thought Streams is an
individual man— masculine or feminine, physically. He
is as abstract as the God that he thinks he worships j%t
God— let us say for the moment— is All Thought, or
the sum total of all thought. This sum total w e may
call the great sea of Universal Spirit, in that it mani­
fests as a positive force, in flesh or out of it. From this
great ocean of Universal Spirit-Thought, issue streams
for specific purposes. W e identify these Thought
Streams as created human beings. They may mani­
fest in cosmic ether as disembodied entities, or they may
manifest on physical planes as planetary mortals. W hy
these humanized Thought Streams found it necessary to
refine themselves, or flow in properly' controlled chan­
nels, where they are flowing, and what the purpose may
be of their flowing at all, are not for discussion in this
work. I have already written nearly a million words
upon it in other books. W e are concerned here to find
out exactly what happens when each individual Thought
Stream finds itself possessed of an organism with which
to operate at the mortalized velocity, and how it oper­
ates and functions in relation to all the other Thought
427
Streams similarly operating and functioning _£*
This process is known elsewhere as “coding the Laws
of Harmony.” These Laws of Harmony are the basis
on which the physical universe is built. They are also
the basis on which the social structure rests. They per­
form all that is performed in mortal manifestation. They
see to it that ether, the one original substance, performs
according to divine intent from sunbeam to physical
monstrosity. They are as positive as the decrees of
gravitation, and to oppose them means nihility.
Since without them in operation nothing exists, thereby
are they Creation.
Coming down to man then, what do w e find but divine
harmony coding itself in forms of physical manifesta­
tion— particularly in living bodies-—for the physical ex­
pression of individual Streams of Consciousness mani­
festing in, and from, the Great Ocean of the Infinite?
€J People, therefore, are not what biologists, theologians,
or ethical culturists, would popularly have us accept.
They are not laws unto themselves, but expressions of
laws that are the essence of creation itself.
Man is Abstract Thought made concrete through a long
series of physical-form expressions called “lives.” He
is concrete only as he manifests from a standpoint, or
angle, of a positive self-awareness. H e says to him­
self, “I A M ,” but he does not— because he cannot— say
this until he has passed through a long program of
physical experiences, and pleasure-pain reflexes, that
have made him aware of himself as a particle or stream-
428
let of Divine Thinking, separate and distinct from all
other particles and streamlets.
A ll these take on different natures because of different
sets of circumstances through which they have endured
— or rather, as w e say, sensed. These particles and
streamlets must each experience differently and sep­
arately in order to achieve individuality. The world of
physical life as w e know it supplies these differentiatng
circumstances. These circumstances determine indi­
viduality. But there is a point reached where each one
of them must become cognizant of every other as part
and parcel in these qualifying circumstances. This cog­
nizance is expressed in terms of sociability, or group
cognizance i f
Where then does this get us in applying this Rule of
Harmony, or constructive progress, to the individual
lives of persons, groups, or nations?
Nature has decreed that each person shall have varying
experiences in order to bring about the awareness of
individuality. This awareness is essential to cognizance
of all life everywhere, its purposes and attainments.
Nature has said in terms of Biology, "Be fruitful and
m ultiply”-— that is, give as m any Thought Streams op­
portunity for flowing and experiencing on the physical
plane as is economically possible under natural condi­
tions. Propagation is therefore a tenet of divine cos­
mogony. It is not physical debauchery, nor the prompt­
ings of lust or flagellated organisms. These prompt­
ings toward propagation must be sacred in essence.
429
W hen w e find a group or a nation with a high birth
rate, it must be because there is a greater opportunity
under that national culture for individual Thought
Streams to acquire a sense of awareness. China and
India are two countries where the social groupings offer
more toward consciousness of self-awareness, than in
any other forms of planetary society. France, England,
and America, have lower birth rates, comparatively,
because they offer less to the individual in pleasure-pain
experiencings A* A*
Life is not constituted essentially so that souls pick out
the easiest and pleasantest modes of existence, or types
of social groupings that are immediately highest in
development. Life in the physical world seems to be
viewed by souls for far different values than they are
made to embrace after they get into it. If they take the
time and trouble to go down into the flesh experience
at all, it is to learn a stronger sense of self-awareness that
only comes from the most powerful forms of self-ex­
pression in experience. I am speaking now of ordinary
souls seeking maximum profits for themselves, not
necessarily for the race. They go down into the flesh
experience to learn, not to loiter in pleasant places A*
C
J Lands with a high birth rate, where the overcrowding
seems cruel according to mortal judgment, offer a strug­
gle for existence that is the very essence of awareness.
G iven a country of a high birth rate, you must therefore
have a country of high spiritual possibilities. This does
not mean, of course, that the highest evolved souls in-
430
habit countries of a high birth rate. It means that souls
born into that country’s culture endure more and there­
fore get their needed primary lessons in awareness with
the utmost facility.
Let us not continue to think of China, Japan, and India,
and in a measure Russia and Italy, therefore, as lands
where living is undesirable or disdainful. Let us con­
sider them as cradles of opportunity wherein young
spirits are rocked, to gain their most vigorous lessons in
cosm ogony
Life in these countries is therefore primordial in motif.
It originates the first graspings of true self-awareness.
It startles the soul, so to speak, into making its high,
upward journey. A s the soul proceeds through many
lives, inhabiting many lands, and learning stronger and
stronger self-cognizance in each experience, it acquires
a facility in such recognition that increasingly demands
less rigor in personal sensation and spiritual adventure.
Therefore it begins to inhabit those countries or lives
under whose civilizations economic pressure is less
vicious and where the pleasure experiences outbalance
the pain experiences. Not that it ever reaches an earthly
state or station where no pain is essential, but after
sufficient pain has been experienced there comes a period
of polishing off, so to speak, when the individual Stream­
let of Consciousness learns to flow sm oothly as a unit
in highly developed social groups, with pleasure allotted
to give it values which pain does not convey.
This process is the flowering of the individual into a
431
status that is very near to the heaven of the Funda­
mentalists 52*
W hen the state of the individual essence is so fine— or
better, refined— that even life in such higher groups can
teach it little, it slips permanently into groups even
higher than those at the apex of life on earth, and comes
back into flesh only to minister to, advise, counsel, or
help direct the earth processes of existence as great
leaders and great teachers for those still in the turmoil
of self-evolution.
N ALL of this I am looking at the bald
facts of life as evinced by what anyone
can see in action in every land and clime
at the present moment. Sociologists
ponder and grope as to why— in a world
of natural equality for all other species— there should
be such sordid coagulations of humanity as w e find in
China or India, as opposed to the highly developed cul­
ture of France or America. Can w e not understand by
the evidence at the disposal of our reason, that these
cultural subdivisions have not happened by chance?
And neither are they perpetuated by circumstances
C
J They must be divinely ordained, in constructive logic,
for the beneficent purpose of making people to know
that they ARE, and that each condition and station of
living must be evidence of an attainment, no matter
what the stations yet ahead may be.
Life in the world is ever constructive. That is, it goes
432
onward and upward, never backward or downward.
This upward process is the Process of Creation. Creation
is going on constantly. Ultimate perfection is never
attained, else Creation would cease and there would
be no universe. No matter how high a soul evolves, to
the end of all time there will be opportunity for further
refinement or the expression of further phases of
creation t$f
W hen w e say that a soul has attained to a H eaven—in
the sense that it cannot profit further by physical adven-
turings— w e mean that it has gained all that physical
adventuring can teach it. But nothing created is per­
fect. Nothing, certainly not Incarnate Thought, ever
attains to that state where further education is im­
possible
These Thought Streams that are men, therefore, gather
them selves into social groups as another phase of per­
fecting their self-awareness. They meet with one
another socially, politically, and commercially. They
see the effects of different circumstances on other
Streams of Thought or consciousness. Thereby they
learn lessons of patience, tolerance, and infinite com­
passion for one another. Sometimes they read into
each others’ courses and careers, their own experiences,
and that is blessed to their ow n evolution since they gain
in perception of their own attributes.
The time will come, considered speculatively, in the
evolution of each Consciousness or Stream of Self-
Expression, when it will rule over diverse groups of
433
similar creations on other planets and planetary systems
than earth, for the universe exists by multiplying or
progressing in turn, else it would not exist at all. A
hundred thousand million worlds will doubtless yet come
into being, each one requiring its Chrystos Force over it.
tjj This Chrystos Force is nothing but a Stream of Con­
sciousness of such ultimate achievement and encom-
passment that it surpasses anyone or anything given into
its hand for ruling, although ruling is here a wrong
term to use. Ruling implies police jurisdiction, whereas
the idea to be conveyed is supreme sacrifice in service.
Our Lord Jesus is the highest exponent w e have of
this celestial progress, with which w e have contact. He
speaks of God the Father in terms of intimacy, as though
God the Father were a sublimated patriarch. Constantly
during His ministry He referred to the Host. These are
all terms, or symbols, intelligible to organisms that can
only conceive for the present in aspects of forms.
Our Beloved Prince of the Nations is a literal Entity, and
yet on the other hand, He is likewise a Sublime Stream
of Consciousness— as w e are all of us lesser Streams of
Consciousness— making His evolutionary w ay up
through Cosmogony to an ever-increasing equipment
and unfoldment.
Ruling over a planet, therefore, in the sense that I have
implied, can be only another incident in the perfecting
of our own spiritual equipment. There are higher de­
sires and glories than masquerading in the kingly form
and concept; but these, of course, to the finite con-
434
sciousness now in its kindergarten of spiritual aware­
ness, are on the whole unknowable.
The message of most majesty and inspiration that man­
kind in its present fleshly jacket can receive, is that each
and every one of us has a kinship with the Christ in
this: that there is not one amongst us, no matter how
poor, no matter how lowly, no matter how humble, no
matter how gross, but can som e day know the glory of
Perfect Service in ministering to some celestial portion
of this ever-expanding universe— that the day will dawn
up infinite aeons of time, when each one of us, too, may
be a Christ of an order, although I grant you that it re­
quires only simple mathematics to grasp that when that
day does dawn for those of us now in mortal flesh, Jesus
of Nazareth as w e now know Him will be infinitely
farther ahead of us in grandeur of attainment.
H e taught this graphically and emphatically to His dis­
ciples. Those disciples were ordinary men to the world
at large; they really were spirits of His own order
and fam ily who came into flesh at the time of
His Galilean incursion to carry on His work after His
dematerialization.
They had their parts to play in the staging of a grand
religious drama for which the world was ready spiritu­
ally. Som e of them did not know themselves in flesh
as being of His family; it was not revealed to them
until after the Master had left them in the physical sense.
Som e of them did not become aware of it until after their
mortal deaths. But they seem to have been among the
435
oldest souls in earth-life at the time, and they have
“come back” in various guises and manifestations since,
continually interpreting His great earthly mission. He
calls them “members of His fam ily,” or “the Goodly
Company”— another concession to mortal nomencla­
ture and the desire for Form in order to have concept.
W hat He really means is, that they started to be indi­
vidual Streams of Consciousness at about the same time
that H e did, and while they may not manifest in flesh
with His facility, that is because they have been guilty
of making retrograde errors from time to time which He
did not make, or they have had some mission to execute
which would have been defeated had they displayed the
miraculous powers which went with His Galilean office.
<J Let us get back now, after these understandings and
enlightenments, to the business of considering the ordi­
nary Laws of Human Life in the light of such hypothe­
sis. Or rather, suppose that w e consider the true mean­
ing and function of Law in terms of strictly mundane
governmental structure.
436
THE TWENTY-NINTH DISCUSSION
N A T I O N S - I N - L A W
TH E TW ENTY-NINTH DISCUSSION
H A V E spoken of the Law of a
Machine as marking its es­
sential character and function.
O f course that is a wrong
term after a fashion, but it does
express the terminology of
jurisprudence as applied to
machinery. Here on earth,
then, w e have a given number
of human beings—or mortal intelligences— running into
the billions, seeking expression in physical experience
to make them the more keenly aware of their existence
but also functioning forward and upward towards ever-
retreating Perfection. They cannot function in flesh
with and toward one another without manifesting traits
and essences that are different from each other, because
the experiences of no two men are exactly alike. Given
a group or a nation of these “mortals” in flesh for this
purpose, w e find that economic pressure exerts a baleful
influence on them— that is, an influence that is destruc­
tive at times in that it retards instead of helping the
growth of those higher perceptions making for spiritu-
439
ality, although at the same time it may enhance the en­
visioning of themselves as separate individualities jfc*
<1 This economic pressure is the battle-force of life, and
amid it the Man Spirit fluctuates and oscillates, keeping
as true a balance as possible between those factors which
are destructive of his spiritual growth and those factors
which enhance his sense of individuality.
This economic pressure, incidentally, is one of the
strongest human motivations for dividing into political
cliques called nationalities.
I have said that it is climate, terrain, and anthropological
inheritance, that make for racial differences. But it is
economic pressure that sets one race against another,
and life against life. Understand, it is not always bane­
ful nor is it continually destructive; but it never ceases
to exert an influence on the Stream of Consciousness
that is individual man.
It is one of the banks between which the river of life
flows, and while any stream exerts an influence on its
banks, nevertheless its banks determine the strength of
the current and forever direct its course.
Now then, viewing the individual human life as a
pleasure-pain experience emphatically in contact with
other lives, w e find that nations reserve unto themselves
the right of determining what the depth and course of
the human current shall be that flows between the banks
of Economic Pressure and Spiritual Evolution.
W e find that they determine what shall be their culture,
their mode of government, and their expressions of
440
ethics and altruisms one toward the other. W e find that
they reserve unto themselves the right to regulate these
standards by the promulgation of circumscribing decrees
that express the best methods known to themselves for
enforcing those standards among individuals making up
their States, as against those of their neighbors.
W e call these decrees toward standardizations, ’‘laws,”
and recognize in them certain merits and demerits. But
w e adhere to the inherent right of each nation to issue
them. Only when these laws of one State conflict with
the decrees of another State— or the economic pressure
amid one race supersedes the collective interests of those
of another race— do w e have trouble between nations or
peoples .£«? tSjf
This is as it should be, up to a certain point. It is in the
methods employed to find a solution of those difficulties,
that humankind errs and does damage to itself as a
species— even to physical extinction at times.
Let us grasp it clearly that these “law s,” as w e have pro­
pounded them, are not man-made— although man may
seem ingly have originated them and put them into force.
These laws are God-made, so to speak, for the definite
purpose of keeping racial stocks and national stations
separate and distinct from one another, and intending
that they shall stay so until the end of time, that the
human ego or Stream of Consciousness— by taking
them in a series or gradations— may have a distinct
ladder to climb in Cosmos, or a sharply defined course
along which to flow.
441
I am steadfastly against any consideration of Interna­
tionalism, because making one race or one nation of all
races and all nations is imponderable and unthinkable,
and I think I have adequately set forth why it is so. Such
an achievement, no matter by what end attained, would
transgress certain cosmic fiats that have been responsible
for the phenomena of racial stocks and stations, to com­
mence with. It would work mischief with the whole
plan of spiritual evolution. Popularly we put it, that
“it would be against Nature.” But it would be against
more 4 * 4*1
It would be disruptive and subversive to the edicts of
God Himself for the earthly evolution of the individual
soul 4 * 4?
I admit that there are cases, and India seems to be one
of them, where conditions are such that the Streams of
Consciousness in the mass are so infantile* in concept,
and so weak in the adaptability of their intellects to
economic pressure, that they would cease to exist as
races or nations if some more highly devieloped race or
national culture did not intercede for them amid rapaci­
ous neighbors and preserve them unto themselves by en­
forced foreign government.
This sort of thing is equally suitable, and, again I em­
phasize, does not happen by chance or by international
political opportunism or expediency. It .can well be
spiritually manifesting in its finest phase. Evils of
nomenclature do creep in. Opportunities present them­
selves whereby the more intellectual or cultural castes
442
execute designs on the weaker or more ignorant to their
economic profit. But that, in the final analysis, is our
old, old friend Compensation functioning again.
Even the intellectual and highly cultured nations,
ethically or politically, need the spur and incentive of
economic profit to make them act as mentors and guides
too theirs less favored, for the time being.
W hen the moment arrives that the former no longer
need to function, or should not function, circumstances
will automatically halt them from functioning.
The scheme as a scheme, however, is divine in concept
and cannot be criticized in logic, when w e take the long
view of all human life and the reasons for any earthly
experiences whatever.
Let us now consider what happens in Law and Equity
when one national culture, however fecund of spiritual
values to the individual, becomes racially or economi­
cally obnoxious to its neighbors on a higher plane of
development, expressed in terms of the human equation.
443
HE CONDITION known as War is pre­
cipitated ultimately. No matter whether
a nation travels afar to seize another’s ter­
ritory or chattels, or whether the squabble
is purely strategic or academic to the man
in the street on either side, there are factors involved
that compel human life to be precarious.
One nation may dissipate itself by watering its racial
stock, or by submitting to the detrimental social effects
of loot. Nevertheless, vast number of persons are jeop­
ardized and their longevity threatened or even termi­
nated. All this naturally is odious to the plan of human
experience as a continuous process which must arrive at
some sort of fruition to justify itself.
The nation which makes the war may be victorious or
not. The nation on which the war is launched may, or
may not, be permanently conquered. The fact remains
that war as war, is the supreme disturbance of all the
contributory factors making for the plan’s eventual
achievement i?
It is a giving w ay to impatience on a national scale—
seeking to achieve in a month or a year that which
Nature would settle amicably over a longer period of
time, or which she would bring to pass by some method
which did not interrupt the orderly fruition of the indi­
vidual consciousness in a state of evolving improvement.
<J Given two nations that must settle their differences of
Law and Economics by martial strife, w e have an un­
natural precipitation of physical forces that leaves in its
444
wake all manner of minor disruptions of orderly evolu­
tion, and sometimes the acme of derogation in suicide.
MADE the statement a few pages back that
many conservative thinkers hold grave
doubts about man’s ultimate attainments
as a species, that because he is “inherently
animal” it were folly to talk about any
esthetic state in which the Will of the Majority is a re­
liable quality whereby groups are able to adjudicate for
one another as races. I said that those same thinkers
fail to take into consideration the true nature of man
and why mankind deports itself so inexplicably when
divided into groups.
Defining man basically, however— as I have attempted
to do in the preceding pages, and depicting his achieve­
ments in view of the apotheosis that I have employed—
is his deportment really as mysterious as the unen­
lightened would accept? Furthermore, considering what
he has accomplished under his Mentors to date, specifi­
cally in a political gesture like the American Govern­
ment— regardless of its faults and demerits in operation
— are w e justified in calling the species gregarious but
not social, imperious but not kingly, having attributes
of gods but lacking their graces; or are we merely criti­
cizing a stage of man’s development?
The old theology had this merit at least: It assured us
that God did not judge man until the end of his days.
So I submit that this, too, is an excellent rule for us to
445
adopt when operating in this New Theology of the di­
vinity of all matter, and that even the lowest and most
besotted teamster is a literal Christ in school.
To say that man is incapable of attaining in interna­
tional mold, what one group like the thirteen American
colonies finally attained in the group mold, is to say that
man is capable of becoming static, that he must already
have reached his growth, and that further development
is beyond him. Man is in constant upward movement—
terrific upward movement. H e is unique as an ingredi­
ent in divine psychics, in that he is one Stream— albeit
a Thought Stream— that eccentrically runs uphill.
He is, by his very essence that makes and keeps him
alive, progressing upward to more and more stupendous
concepts. But do not forget that the sum and substance
of his appearance on earth at all, are largely epitomized
in that very display of eccentricity in his behavior, be­
tween individuals or groups, which the "conservative
thinkers” criticize.
Put it this way: W hen you deal with the human equa­
tion in any office or exposition, you are dealing with
phases of Abstract Thought made temporarily concrete.
€| Abstract Thought can do, or attain, anything, because
it is everything!
If this point be reasonably clear, even for the purpose of
this argument, I now wish to treat of m y recent state­
ment anent war as a disturbant of cosmic architecture.
For that is the problem of the immediate present, im­
peding man in his cosmic progression.
446
THE THIRTIETH DISCUSSION
N A T I O N S - IN - L A W
±? THE THIRTIETH DISCUSSION i?
HE forces that make for war
are always selfish in essence.
No matter how much patriotic
fervor may accompany or cloak
the selfishness, m y statement
holds. Cf Men talk about na­
tional hatreds as being prime
cause for war. I say there is no
such thing as a national hatred.
There m ay be racial animosities where two races of op­
posing cultures contact one another daily and intrude
obnoxious practices or religious tenets on one another
until, in a manner of speaking, they get on each other’s
nerves. But these are merely border-line disturbances.
They would have no permanent effect if they were not
maliciously used to fan the flames of a fabricated detes­
tation that grows national in its scope— a black ideal
that finally obsesses the most inconsequential citizen.
War is never national in its scope until it is w ell ad­
vertised— in other words, promoted. Imagination is
caught and insidiously flagellated. The forces of evil
labor consistently and industriously to carry animosities,
449
real or fancied, into every hamlet and crossroads cot­
tage. They magnify small matters that otherwise would
pass unnoted and unrebuked, maim reputations of rulers
or individuals, subject the rank and file of the offending
nation to arraignment for infamies that may be true or
false, and otherwise steam up a whole people to resent­
ment
In the olden days before the printing press, radio, movies,
and general publicity methods offered instruments and
expedients for effecting such dastardly revilements and
aggravations, war had largely to be fought by hired mer­
cenaries or draft soldiers who blindly obeyed the whims
of their princes. To instigate and fight a war today,
however, the common people must be apprised of the
contest in all its fecund details.
It stands to reason that, publicity and education being
what they are today, whole peoples cannot be won over
to engage in a major conflict without grotesque amounts
of manufactured hatred being loosed among them for
premeditated reasons.
Wars would ever fall flat if left to the whim of mankind
in general. A populace may be angered temporarily
by the acts or behaviors of neighboring peoples; but
anger is not hate. It is usually the passion of temper,
that disappears upon the interference of closer and more
personal interests of contact. If a people of any na­
tionality—or any race— were left absolutely to them­
selves, there would never be another war, for the reason
that no two men would ever think alike as to the causes
450
or conduct of that conflict and thus it would remain
static in inception.
To prosecute any sort of war, mass action is a necessity.
And as w e have discussed at almost the beginning of
the first volum e of this work, mass action is never pos­
sible until a million men have the mind of the one—
usually expressed in will of the “leader.”
War in its inception or execution therefore, depends
purely on leadership, and this leadership in turn depends
upon organization. H ow then, can present leaders of
the nations contend in logic that they have the “war
spirit” of their nationals to take into consideration in
settling major problems? The very passions that make
for war are quickly fatiguing, and no matter how much
a populace may be incensed against the nationals of a
neighboring State, it must be a continual and increasing
program of wrongdoing that keeps a whole people at the
pitch required for successful outcome of a long-drawn
conflict J
t? t?
No State, as a State, is ever guilty of such an insanity,
and from the very nature of things, could not be.
People are people wherever you find them.
Individuals of one State are no more wicked than the
individuals of another State.
It takes two to make a quarrel— no matter how old or
banal the statement— and it takes many times two peo­
ple to keep the quarrel boiling when two or more coun­
tries bethink to go to war.
W hen this happens, therefore— at least between coun-
451
tries of millions of inhabitants— it is necessary to keep
up a perpetual embroilment or the war falls flat before it
begins to get in sight of its attainment.
Princes who make war, know this. They know that it
is necessary to hold perpetually and increasingly before
their peoples or their allies the Black Ideals of racial in­
tolerance, magnified indiscretions, indescribable butch­
eries— all the horrid and dastardly panoply of rigor
mortis— surrounding the carnage with the blackest
clouds of fright and fear, so that no seditionist may say
in turn, “A ll this is fabricated abomination; let us put
an end to it by sane understanding, compromise, or
mutual interchange of ideas that may show us a less
expensive w ay to emerge from our difficulties.”
Let him who would attempt this last beware, however.
The wolves of greed and the vultures of manufactured
hate, scream at his head and seek to sink their talons
cruelly in his entrails. He is a sheep among rapacious
beasts. He is an enemy to the State.
W ho dares to see clearly, think coolly and rationally,
preach peace and sane understandings, when war is the
hysteria of the moment?
War is colossal self-seeking, agitated to the point of
wholesale murder by colossal advertising, and kept go­
ing by fabricated hatred.
It has no justification in any human concept.
Peoples who are inherently peaceable are precisely the
peoples who can be led into the most horrible wars, most
gullibly, because their very peacefulness supplies them
452
with an ideal for keeping that peace, and being most out­
raged when peace is circumvented.
A nd when that peace is threatened they instinctively
war most desperately, to return to that status where war
is most obnoxious.
This does not mean that there are not justifiable wars.
This does not mean that peace is always desirable. There
are always exceptions, in sanity— especially where there
are high moral issues to be safeguarded, as in England
in the time of Cromwell, or in America when the blot of
slavery could only be erased by the blood of major
carnage tp £&
Modern warfare, however small in scope, rarely en­
counters the challenge of Spirituality Rampant, none the
less. True, nations always use Spirituality as employe
to gain their ends— with minimum expenditure of men
and materials. But most present-day warfare is fought
out along lines of trade, bluntly speaking, for the ad­
vantages to be gained around the green baize table of
the succeeding peace conference.
Most wars are fought, really, that there may be green
baize tables and peace conferences. Or rather, after the
carnage has exhausted a certain number of men and
materials, the real conflict ensues— and is won or lost—
by and between the post-martial diplomats.
No nation today can utterly vanquish or assimilate an­
other nation. There is no such thing as a complete
martial victory— and there never has been such a thing
since the Napoleonic era. Machines, not men, make
453
war as modernity accepts it. Trade motivates war today,
not spiritual issues, no matter how high spiritual issues
are flaunted as camouflage for bastardies.
W ar is abhorrent today because it is unnatural and un­
fair as much to the victor as to the vanquished.
It can no longer succeed permanently in its purpose be­
cause human life has entered upon a new dispensation.
€J War is abominable because it is basically abortive
even in its most glamorous presentations. Means of
travel and communication have so far advanced, that
the world is a neighborhood where hoodlums or hired
thugs cannot shoot guns or throw brickbats without
damaging persons who have no part in the quarrel and
cannot be basically interested until their heads are
bashed or their w indow panes in ruins. Then these in­
nocent bystanders call it a spiritual issue by saying it is
anybody’s fight, and participate in the conflict “as a
matter of honor.”
A ll sanity deserts a people that is suffering from the
stimulant of fabricated hatred. It becomes popular to
think as the mass thinks, because fancy has it that the
mass is threatened.
If only an individual were threatened, no one would
spend a farthing on a war, or think it worth the bother to
thrust his head out from a window. W itness the philo­
sophical indifference of the mass to the individual in
every avenue of activity jeopardizing or exterminating
the defenseless individual.
But threaten the mass, and the individual man goes
454
berserk. That is because his sense of collective pro­
tection is similarly threatened. The mass or the herd is
the only armor that he knows in a world where Nature
seems impersonal, because he does not understand what
Nature is or w hy it operates with such apparent
ruthlessness.
Now Nature is not ruthless. Nature is epitomized be­
neficence. But whether the Spirit— or Conscious
Thought-Stream as delineated— occupies the physical
organism of the Hindu Untouchable or the high-caste
Balt, makes no difference; therefore there is no senti­
mentality about such occupancy.
Nature primarily is the most sentimental force conceiv­
able, else w hy should she cast violets in the most unlikely
places? But Nature cares nothing for the locality of
the human psyche.
Nature is not fussed up over any specific manifestation
of the human spirit— being all Spirit.
Coming back to herd fright— not being well informed on
such fundamentals— the individual thinks that the ex­
tinction of his body, his race, or his culture, means the
end of his Stream of Consciousness. So, in mad panic,
the poor deluded spirit hurls its entity into the smoking
muzzles of cannon to perpetuate the very thing it
thereby loses £&
U p until very lately, such self-abnegation seemed
beauteous, and indeed in a measure it was beauteous,
since nothing is more beauteous than love externalized
in terms of self-sacrifice. Today, w e are confronted by
455
a dispensation where the world-neighborhood is such
that the ultimate attainment never can be realized, be­
cause the theater of war is not confined to the area of
actual combat. It is externalized all over the neighbor­
hood and every misdirected missile enrages more and
more inhabitants until eventually they are all fighting
without stopping to realize how the quarrel started or
which is friend and which is foe.
A nyone is foe who confronts another in combative
attitude
OMING back to the instigations and per­
petuations of conflict however, I have said
that everywhere in the world as at present
constituted, private interests must magnify
national indiscretions into virulent ani­
mosities or the whole m ovem ent collapses of its own
weight and absurdity. These private interests may be
political—emanating from the caprices of princes or
dictators— or proponents of some eccentric political
system such as Communism, or they may be commer­
cial, in the sense that bodies of otherwise well-inten­
tioned men see national or personal profit to be gained
by flagellating the public mind and keeping it inflamed
until a psychological moment arrives for a profitable
settlement— profitable, that is, in a sense of seizure.
Or the causes for a war may be strictly racial, where it
is to the cultural or commercial advantage of one race
to get two other races to fighting between themselves
456
and thus killing off thousands and tens of thousands,
that the first motivating race may ultimately step in and
dominate the properties and destinies of the combatants.
<J This last is the titanic castigation which students and
investigators have heaped upon Jews of all countries at
this moment. It has not been in any spleen of intoler­
ance that the proverb has been fashioned among Chris­
tian peoples that “Wars are the Jew s’ harvests.” A
study into the secret histories of governments since the
time of Cromwell, swiftly and malodorously establishes
the fact that conniving and predatory Judaists have been
the inflaming influence instigating most of the major
wars against or among Christian nations.
It has long been an established principle of Jewry— if
Jewry can be said to have any principles— to get two or
more Christian nations set at one anothers’ throats, for
every pair of combatants thus killed off means so much
more opportunity for Israelites to acquire the lands and
goods of those whose lives are thus terminated.
The average American, tolerant of Jewry to the point of
gullibility, has a naive ignorance comparable to a babe
in arms, concerning the extent to which World Jewry
can be indicted for most of the wars and social upsets
that have afflicted Christendom since the middle ages.
®| Since the rise of the Brown Shirts in Germany— and
now the ascendancy of the Silvershirts in the United
States— appalling facts are being brought to light, un­
masking this sinister racial influence among peoples
who would otherwise be peaceable.
457
Indications are at last gaining to the light of day that
going on further back than the days of the Cavaliers and
Roundheads, the Jews wanted to get back into England,
from which they had been expelled. So they backed
Cromwell in his so-called Protectorate. Cromwell was
enabled to write his name large in English history, but
no mention has been made generally of how he was
able to accomplish his ends so prodigiously.
In the closing years of the nineteenth century, a horrible
cancer broke out in the flesh of the body politic in
France, producing the Reign of Terror. A profligate
aristocracy is popularly blamed. But no mention is made
of the army of Jewish agents that operated through the
nefarious Jewish-controlled Illuminati to promote the
horror, nor of more Jewish agents who controlled the
People’s Assembly and manipulated through the mobs,
nor of the royalty that perished that “the people’’ might
succeed to their wealth— but which wealth mysteriously
disappeared— nor of the fact that throughout all the
butchery and spoliation, scarcely one Jew’s property
was jeopardized or damaged.
For a hundred years thereafter, it was a European
proverb that no potentate could make war without first
obtaining the consent of the House of Rothschild.
How many wars the House of Rothschild instigated—
without consulting anyone but themselves— must be left
to conjecture. Already the Nazis have brought to light
the appalling certainty that it was not the stolid German
people who arose and gave battle to the Allies in the
458
late world war. It was a Jewish oligarchy in command
of the German people, whom all the world fought
through four nightmare years. And when finally the
United States was manipulated to wade into the
shambles, one great American Jew was absolute dictator
of 246 out of 249 basic war industries and has been
shown to have exercised a power over this embattled
country greater than its President’s.
O f all the millionaires who emerged from the war with
swollen fortunes in New York, seventy-five percent
have been shown to be Jews.
On the taking over of Russia by the Jews, and the ex­
termination of W hite Russians as a people, w e need
expend no comment.
Now our entire American Administration is in the hands
of this same predatory breed. They and their satraps
have gained ascendancy over the press, over the radio,
over the screen— all agencies for hate fabrication, and
for the manufacture of proper mass-murder sentiment
when the moment comes that it is advantageous to em ­
broil our country in a fresh conflict to divert attention
from themselves and their preponderance in all of our
cherished Christian institutions.
Make no mistake about this. I neither criticize nor in­
dict honest men with honest property to be protected,
who see themselves vulnerable in a world of alarms and
recognize in a highly organized armament a protective
instrument against inroads of spoliation. I speak of a
vast oligarchy of deliberate and criminal self-seekers,
459
without ethics or conscience, who plot assiduously to
keep the world in foment, and lie awake nights that
they may miss no opportunity to further ends as inter­
national conspirators bent on making peaceful peoples
the butt of their malfeasance.
I know that the real plotters in this nation are not neces­
sarily its feather-headed governors or statesmen at
helms of government. They are deeper and more
subtle in their maneuvers. They have agencies at their
hand diabolical of concept, working to emasculate
America as a great military and economic power, that
at the proper time Russia— their Red Vassal— equipped
with their gold and officered by their satraps, may by the
very nature of soviet resources, dictate the political
policies of the world with no one of sufficient power to
say them nay.
Our beloved Prince of Peace— whom they despise— has
said that mankind shall beat its plowshares out of spears
and its pruning-hooks from metals of world carnage. It
was no mere figure of speech that H e used.
The great war demonstrated in its aftermath that the
human memory is poignantly short. It remembers only
those offices of war that impinge upon its instincts. It
forgets those tenets and experiences which impinge on
spiritual concepts. This is because human spirit is slow,
slow—being individualistic with every man— whereas
instincts are the externalizations of mass psychologies.
C
JLet us not go into that; it is trite, and immaterial.
The fact remains that Man Forgets. He longs in his
460
heart for peace, but he fears mass reaction in indictment
of the cowardice of his spirit, more than he fears the
catastrophes of conflict.
He is a child in his perceptions and his acknowledg­
ments. Therefore he is the easy prey of malign in­
fluences that would butcher him to fat their purses or
gain control in councils of diplomacy.
Man knows not of himself how to thwart those malign
influences and agencies. He is as sheep, with wolves
running nightly in the fold or biding their time to leap
out of ambush. This book will come into the hands of
many of those wolves. They will recognize themselves.
To them I say—
An equal conspiracy exists which they dream not of as
yet, to fell them in their tracks. Forces are gradually
mounting against them so stupendous as to make their
own strategies the silly intrigues of gibbering imbeciles,
due for quick incarceration as their mischiefs are per­
ceived te * 3a*
The American people are a long time arousing into ac­
tion. The United States is by no means Russia. And
in every crisis that has ever confronted America, her
populace— when sufficiently outraged—
—
has shown itself
as ruthlessness incarnate.
461
ANKIND is not always to be the hapless
prey of those insolent wolves who imagine
the earth to be their own stalking ground.
Neither is man to be altogether his own
protector as he has always looked upon
himself in generations past. Mankind has hurled brick­
bats at w olves before and crushed their skulls or driven
them into hiding. N ow the time arrives when those
packs must be exterminated. And the forces gathering
for the slaughter are terrific beyond all concept.
I make these statements guardedly. I have no wish to
be considered a fanatic or alarmist, and I submit m y per­
sonal career to date as evidence of the fact that I am
feared for my knowledge and m y accurate perceptions.
But I have had obvious certainties divulged to me which
impel me to write with a true pen of prophecy.
Wars, I say, are always deliberately manufactured in
this day of modern armament and “rules of carnage”
. . . they are created and promoted by a small, well-
organized minority with specific objectives to achieve.
So autocratic is the control of the minority over the
agencies of war promotion— political governments as
at present constituted, the press, the screen, the radio—
that conflicts may be turned on, or turned off, without
the man-in-the-street’s having the faintest inkling of the
diableries that are jeopardizing him and making him the
prey of the most nefarious interests.
But before w e proceed to touch briefly on counter­
agencies for cooping such iniquities, we should record a
462
word about another generalized cause of conflict in the
modern world— the Freedom of the Seas.
The moment that the term International Law is called
up, the average person envisions maritime rules and
regulations expanding or circumscribing the planet’s
public waterways. Let us discourse for a few pages on
this much-mooted question, the Freedom of the Seas.
In any forthcoming permanent foreign policy for the
United States under the Silvershirts, Freedom of the Seas
must be known for what it is.
463
THE THIRTY-FIRST DISCUSSION
N A T I O N S - I N - L A W
TH E THIRTY-FIRST DISCUSSION jfc*
NTERNATIONAL law, I say
again, from time immemorial
has been interpreted as, or con­
cerned with, deportment of na­
tions in their sea relationships,
more than with any other factor
affecting their interests. Inter­
national law, to some people,
goes no further than the rights
and privileges of the different nationals on the highways
of the oceans and their estuaries. In fact, international
law, from the academic viewpoint, represents very little
to the average citizen beyond the rights and prerogatives
of the various countries in their oceanic deployments.
That is to say, nations seem to invoke more interna­
tional jurisprudence in their sea activities than in their
land activities, until the terms International Law and
Freedom of the Seas have almost become interchange­
able ±?
Now Freedom of the Seas, or freedom on the seas, is
again a misleading term. Properly speaking there is no
such thing. Freedom of the seas is a misnomer. W hat
467
really is meant is, “freedom of rights and action on the
common vantage ground of oceanic waterways,” and
that is something that will never com e about, any more
than w e can have freedom of rights and action in the
individual case on land. Freedom on the seas in the
academic sense is anarchy on the seas. Having seen the
root meaning of anarchy in our discourse on Constitu­
tional Law, I think that this point requires small
illumination
Given a group of nations that must resort to ships to
sustain economic life, true freedom of the seas would
permit of any sort of naval or marine activity that a
nation might choose to mix in to enhance its fortunes
in war or in commerce.
There has never been complete freedom of the seas and
I submit there never can be. There is really less freedom
on the seas than there is upon the land, because the
oceans cannot be parceled out among races, states or
nationals as the land is parceled out.
The seas are common property, in exactly the measure
and for exactly the reasons that they are subservient to
more fixed rules for navigation and employment than
could possibly be the case with well-surveyed real estate.
In the exact ratio that you must have armament, you
must have restriction. In the exact ratio that you have
commercial activity, you must have protection. In the
ratio of armament to protection, you have Law— or you
should have law. And yet this last is not always the
case t$f iHf
468
Five major nations have recently been conferring among
themselves, not so much to insure or enhance Freedom
of the Seas as to reach a common understanding as to
which among the five shall dictate to the others. That
is a pretty cloak for ugly truth.
There has been nothing altruistic about such conferring,
excepting that sincere altruism may motivate many
eminent statesmen in their private views as to the wel­
fare of all peoples in the years ahead.
Their actual gestures, however, have been basically
economic
America does not know w hy she wants freedom on the
seas. She has no reason to demand it by force, even of
Great Britain. The greatest disturbant to the peace of
the world just now is a Continental country with no navy
to speak of, wholly locked in by a ring of naval foes or
hostile natural conditions, that will not spread havoc
among the nations by naval instrumentalities, and which
will require a considerable time yet to seriously worry
the world’s naval chancellories.
America is a proud, adolescent, expanding country, with
vast trade interests abroad. In the exact ratio that those
trade interests expand and multiply, she feels that she
will need the adequate force-protection of her own gov­
ernment. This may or may not be so. But one thing
is certain: She has no desire to arrive at the time or the
pass where any other nation may circumscribe her ac­
tions— only another phase of the mistaken Might-makes-
Right policy.
469
1 have no bone to pick with the United States for this
viewpoint in world affairs. Doubtless were I President
of the United States, I would encourage it— not because
I believe in force to accomplish and achieve any na­
tionalistic aims, but because I would realize that world
psychology at present is such that the strongest nation
politically and diplomatically is the one that has the
greatest chance to exert its force but does not.
This is a philosophical principle more than a practical
truism, and yet the soundest principle that any nation
can adopt ij*
It is never the possession of force that castigates a na­
tion, so much as the purposes to which such force is put.
•J America has no need of a great naval policy to protect
her world holdings for, essentially, she is not a maritime
power. But she does need a strong naval policy to en­
hance her efforts to either bring about national, or inter­
national, disarmament or become a dominating force in
the erection of a Pan-Aryan political structure that shall
really make wars imbecile and archaic.
This is not a paradox in any sense or degree, since the
strong man and the beloved man, is not the weakling
who rants philosophically but the one who uses his great
strength gently and nobly— else why is strength be­
stowed on him at all?
Now then, five great nations have been trying to settle
between themselves which among them shall attain or
retain most effective jurisdiction over the common prop­
erty. If one were strong enough to command superior
470
strength over all the others, of course there would be no
conferring. The strong one would simply boss the seas,
and in the language of our day, tell the others, each and
all of them, where to “head in.” And they would head-in
with painful alacrity and no nonsense about it. But no
one of them is strong enough in ships, ordnance, or
m oney, to fill such much-envied role in the present, so
they gather about the conference table— much as we
have seen diplomats gathering about the peace table—
and fight a world sea-fight on paper, with bluff for guns
and threats of greater building-programs for fleets and
aircraft 2? 2?
W hy the continual necessity for this sort of thing ? Let
us go back to the American Constitutional period and
John Marshall.
The time came shortly after the invention of the steam­
boat when owners of vessels chartered under the various
State governments found themselves intruding on what
the others were pleased to call their rights. They were
compelled by various Supreme Court rulings, handed
down by Marshall, to consider the waters on which they
voyaged— particularly interstate waterways— as the
common property of all the States, and for the use of all
the nationals under the Federal government.
In other words, Federal interests— meaning all of the
people thereunder residing— took precedence over the
interests of the limited groups, that in the larger measure
those of the limited groups as well might receive the
greater benefit 2$ 2&
471
The principle is so simple as scarcely to be worthy of
mention, but sometimes it seems as though the simpler
the principle, the greater stumbling-block it is for mighty
nations in their contacts.
America has always sponsored the philosophy that the
seas are the common vantage-ground for all the na­
tionals having business upon them. She still adheres to
that philosophy. But a condition has arisen since the
world war making it necessary to readjust the relation­
ships existent over generations. This readjustment is
termed Disarmament, and it takes the comical aspect of
most of the world’s great nations making more warships
in order that they may have less.
Great Britain, whose people have always prided them­
selves on ruling the seas, finds herself in the uncom­
fortable position of the small boy caught in a neigh­
bor’s apple tree, not knowing whether to come down and
be punished, or stay up till he falls from the tree in
fatigue it* it*
These great maritime powers give it out that their par­
ticipation in disarmament is humanitarian as well as
economic. Mayhap they declare it sincerely in cases of
individual statesmen. But do they discern with ac­
curacy what is moving them?
The point raised is this: The nations realize that as
commerce increases and world affairs grow more com­
plex, there is need for greater law and order on the
highways of the world than ever before in history.
From somewhere must come the force that makes law
472
vital under the provisions hereinbefore laid down. Law
must have the resources and expedients for enforcement
behind it, or it is only philosophical prescription for
human conduct, not necessarily to be followed. From
whence is to come that force? For it must be forthcom­
ing, and quickly.
For the past hundred years Britain has supplied it. With
the stamping out of privateering and piracy, some nation
had to preserve order on the high seas. Britain grandi­
osely volunteered— by her behavior if not by precept—
to stand the expense of this world police force under the
guise of economic necessity of protecting far far-flung
colonies and interests. But to the student of world
affairs it was all a bit pathetic. The nations sm ugly al­
lowed Britain to do so, since it cost them nothing but
assent. After all, the areas policed were not their own
— politically speaking— and very lonely and w et on
principle. Thus no matter what sort of monkey-busi­
ness was “on the make” in any part of the world, or
between what nationals, it required only the appearance
of a British dreadnaught to make the recalcitrants look
to their ethics.
Now it is a political tenet, that any people will allow a
ruler to rule so long as he gives them peace in their
internal affairs and does not unduly annoy them or inter­
fere with their pursuits. In other words, people will let
Power tax them if it gives them peace— which is
Rosseau’s Social Contract underlying major sovereignty.
€| It is only when sovereignty of the seas is exploited by
473
one interest, or institution, to its own advantage without
exercising any service in return, that the doctrine of
Freedom of the Seas finds a champion and becomes a
challenge to Command of the Seas.
People forget all pride, vanitay, and animus, in the sim­
ple benefit of personal protection; and the same is true of
nations. They may try to keep up a show of personal
independence, but it will be more or less of a childish
strutting in the garments of its elders.
So it was with other nations of the earth when Britain
obligingly undertook to do the thing that all nations
should long before have essayed to do together. Now
the time has come, whether Britain admits it consciously
or not, when she is forced to see that the effects are
breaking her back financially— if they have not broken it
already—-and the thing happening at present seems to
be, that she either wants to shift the burden where it has
rightfully belonged, or gain the assent of all other na­
tions to limit their naval armaments so that this gra­
tuitous service to the rest of the world will not be so
expensive t?
The expansion and complexity of the affairs of other
nations, especially America and Japan, presents a di­
lemma with which Britain cannot progressively cope.
If Where does this put America?
474
HE United States is no longer a strong
nation acquiring more strength that it may
realize, as a strong man, gently, so much
as it is— like a half-blind and hapless
Samson— being led to and fro by the
Jewish Delilah of powerful commercial and financial in­
terests that may want certain chestnuts pulled from the
fire in case Japan seriously menaces or stirs up their
precocious darling— Soviet Russia.
These interests recognize that their protege, Soviet
Russia, has no navy, cannot construct one in time to be
of service, and possesses no adequate ports from which
one might operate efficiently. Great Britain, as an ally,
is not what they desire, since she has her own maritime
tradition to preserve, and if she were called into a war
and fought Russia’s sea fight successfully, the glory
would be hers and Russia would not share it. Further­
more, history has shown that always the acquisition of
such an ally means the acquisition of a master, since
great States rarely withdraw when they have fought the
battles of weaker States, and leave the latter to their
own devices it* tff
They stay and rule.
No, it is the American Navy that is the logical naval unit
to fight Red Russia’s battles in case Japan cannot be
securely bolshevized and persists in driving her wedge
between Jewish Moscow and chaotic China.
There are those among us who have every evidence that
this was the real motivation for the international Jewish
475
diplomats of the two countries’ strong-arming Russian
recognition upon the American people. This was the real
issue at stake when Litvinoff— alias Wallach, alias
Finkelstein— came to America and engineered so
adroitly in W ashington for the recognition of the Soviets.
His various visitations at the nation’s capital aside from
the W hite House— although of course not without
W hite House consent— and the essence of those con­
versations with known congressional authorities, have
long since let the mischievous pussy out of the m ys­
terious cloth receptacle for those truly enlightened in
Jewish diableries. So it is either disarmament in order
that Japan may be circumscribed in the menace which
she constitutes to Russia, or an American N avy par ex­
cellence and second to none, that it may be maneuvered
into Russian-Jewish service if Japan turns out re­
fractory
The man in the street who pays the taxes for such over­
seas chicanery, hears vaguely of great congressional ap­
propriations for the naval and flying services, sees blood­
stirring movies of fleet maneuvers, listens to interna­
tional ward-heeler adjurations across the radio, and
agrees that "protection” against small but ambitious
Japan is a very sound policy indeed. And British di­
plomacy, realizing all this— realizing also that Great
Britain can no longer continue to police the seven seas
for the nations gratuitously— has a skull-full of head­
aches. She must either give up the latter program and
perhaps lose face with Oriental nations, attending
476
strictly to her business of protecting her nationals solely
— which likewise means a diminution of her prestige,
at least philosophically—or persuade all nations to sink
their gunboats, at least to policing minimum. But
Japan, knowing exactly what is going on behind the
scenes, between the Jewish oligarchy in M oscow and the
Jewish oligarchy in W ashington, adroitly ignores Britain
in this stramash and minds her own business— which
happens to be increasing her naval forces so that she
will be in a position to blockade Jewish Russia on the
one hand, when the time arrives, and successfully con­
front Jewish America on the high seas in the greatest
naval battle of modern times, south of Alaska, some­
where in the vicinity of the Aleutian Islands.
Policing of the seas thus becomes a secondary and philo­
sophical issue while such devil’s brew is stewing. Of
course, if all races were enjoying the fruits of protection
from piracy alone, they ought to pay equally for such
protection by their naval contributions therefor, but not
in the sense of any one nation’s either benefiting or beg­
garing itself merely to maintain a traditional prestige.
€J No one in the capitals of the world is worrying over
that ethical nicety in the present, however.
Of course it is logical, and everywhere recognized, that
England’s real purpose in “ruling the seas” has been
not only police power in time of peace but protection of
her territories in time of war. The theory is grand— as
a theory— and undoubtedly makes the individual Briton
feel more comfortable when he lies down to sleep on his
477
snug little isle that has long since lost its identity as
island. Matters have reached a point, however, where
speculation sustains him more than cold fact. The late
war showed conclusively the fallacy of the Briton’s point
of view. For all of her vaunted supremacy on the wave,
had the United States stayed out of the world war six
months longer, and not augmented the British Navy and
the British merchant marine with ,its own, England
might have been so soundly thrashed that the prospect
and its ramifications are not pleasant to contemplate j%
f
A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
A nation is only as strong as it discloses itself in crisis,
fljf A navy is only as powerful as it shows itself invin­
cible in practical operation in face of a foe.
British naval strength proved to be a fallacy and a hoax
on Britain’s people, just as today it is a terrific burden of
inexorable expense— which is w hy I say that the average
Englishman’s sense of security in his bed at night is little
more than tragic speculation.
The United States is rapidly coming to a point where she
likewise is being forced out into a similar program of
colossal blundering under her Jewish masters. Screen
and radio agitation, and press and congressional aug­
mentation, are all at work— full blast— to produce mass
approval in the public subconsciousness, of this Soviet
program having the smashing of Japan at heart.
That these marplots may succeed before they are un­
masked— or rather, that it may require success in their
maneuverings, to unmask them— is not for present com-
478
ment. Unmasked they will be, in natural denouement
of event. Pray tell me, then what?
That the seas must ultimately be adequately policed, no
statesman dares deny. Who then is to do it, and under
what auspices? And will it be done by marine craft or
aircraft? Jfcj* t?
The very drawing-together of the world, geographically,
by increasingly modernized means of travel, automati­
cally contracts the world problem again into the national
Constitutional problem. Instead of thirteen American
colonies, all suspicious of one another and fighting for
place and power under federalized government, we are
thirteen major world colonies— called nations— all sus­
picious of one another and fighting for place and power
Under a speculative federalization by the Upward Trend
of Things t? J% t
Is history to repeat itself in this regard? Or rather, was
the American Union first postulated by the God of
Things as a living witness and pattern for the ultimate
solution of international discomfitures of tenor similar
to the colonies?
Closing our eyes to the Trend will get us nowhere.
When the Jewish International Conspiracy is fully un­
masked, and its principals pilloried before an outraged
Christendom, how are we going about the construction
of a more civilized and enduring stability in interna­
tional relationships.
W e who are called to be actors in the drama now open­
ing must have our answer ready.
479
.if .
&
\
■
: Personally, I believe the solution to lie— at least the
?' first step toward such solution— in the pan-Aryan fed-
•r eralization of the earth’s major nations on specific
premises and for definite objectives as shall admit of
; neither misinterpretation nor subversion throughout the
^ next hundred years.
,* Can it be actualized in practical statesmen, all the
? worldly factors being what they are? Or would we be
dealing in theoretical presumptions?
480
THE THIRTY-SECOND DISCUSSION
N A T I O N S - I N - L A W
THE THIRTY-SECOND DISCUSSION i?
N this work, to the present you
have read a compendium of as­
severations, analyses, preach­
ments and predictions. Some
of these may have seemed quite
ordinary as to prem ise; others,
I hope, will have appealed to
the erudite as matters of origi­
nality worthy of cogitation. 1
now leave the various questions and answers pro­
pounded, and seek an interpretation of them in practical
application to a world which needs their balsams sorely,
<1 Let us take the international situation as it exists at
present, examine it carefully, and see if w e can predicate
upon it a more equitable arrangement, conceived in true
liberty and dedicated to the proposition that men are
men and not puppets of Circumstance.
A t the close of the world war, President W ilson jour­
neyed to Paris with a plan for a League of Nations that
should constructively organize internationality in its last
expedient sense. His idea was to gather the representa­
tives of the warring nations about the council table and
483
impress upon them the necessity for some sort of world
body which should render forever impossible a repetition
of the carnage which had come to a welcom e close. This
was admirable on his part— as a philosophic altruism—
and he doubtless worked under the mentorship of
spiritual forces vaster than he dreamed of. I like to
believe that he has been suitably rewarded even for as
much as he was able to achieve. But those great
spiritual forces had greater plans in view.
It was necessary at the time for the League of Nations
as w e have come to know it, to take form and shape, not
to accomplish any parliament of man just then, but to
show that such a parliament is both practical and work­
able if it be properly constructed— which the League of
Nations never has been and hence remains impotent,
•j} Putting it in another way, W ilson did certain ground­
work to propel the human race into thinking interna­
tionally, and there his office ended.
Few were aware at the time, that the League of Nations
got as far as it did because it seemed to hold the germ of
a world state for the more proper and efficient juris­
diction of Jewry over the Gentile Christendom. W hen
the Jews overplayed their hand— as they always do over­
play their hands—the pussy was out of the cloth re­
ceptacle again, and the Unted States commendably beg­
ged to be excused.
The time will come, and not so far distant as the unen­
lightened now assume, when mankind will be given into
such a parliament, permanently, of its own volition
484
<f W hat W ilson did, was to show humanity that getting
together politically is not impossible if the provocation
be sufficiently great to make the achievement attractive
and profitable.
The time for the real Parliament of Man has not yet ar­
rived, although fast approaching due to developments
in the Orient; and this is as it should be, for one big
reason:
The Parliament of Man must be assembled in the face of
a major social catastrophe, or major social menace, and
not as its aftermath! Furthermore, to be permanent and
efficient— it cannot partake of the nature of an inter­
nation alliance, nor yet of a Jewish synagogue. Let us
elaborate on the first. The second needs no expounding.
VEN as the English Parliament was origi­
nally set up to protect the common people
against the arrogance, depredations and
extortions of selfish, stupid and religiously-
fanatical princes— and peoples of other
lands dominated by the Popes— with the threats of
damage and danger always hanging over them in the
form of recurrences of such arrogances, depredations,
and extortions, so the Great World Parliament must
come about in the face of some catastrophe so mammoth
that a relaxation of political vigilance for even a year,
month, week or a day, would result in concrete and
permanent injury to the lives of a majority of the sen­
sible peoples of the earth, meaning them either as indi-
485
viduals or closely integrated groups t!* j%t j%r j%f
This means that the time is upon us in this generation,
when ordinary mortals will be confronted by supreme
dilemmas. Forces may be loosed by racial m egalo­
maniacs, to arouse whole continents and hemispheres of
peoples to pit them selves against whole continents or
hemispheres of peoples— speaking culturally. Russia
under her Jewish tyrants is m oving into Asia and be­
coming more and more an oriental power. The very
nature and essence of her political composition are
Dem agoguery of the worst depravity. Her national life
in this generation, granted she has any, is one of sodden
awakening to a sense of arrested development, although
under the Jews she has the insolence and temerity to
call this Progress and insist that the rest of the world’s
nations shall embrace her imbecilities.
This awakening, or rather this perception, mistaken and
decadent though it m ay be, is being echoed in the racial
dynamics of two or three other races, also indigenous to
Asia, that are demonstrating volcanic fecundities at
present jfc* t?
W e have here the aspects— and most of the social in­
gredients— of an impasse. One hemisphere, epitomiz­
ing a sort of decadent culture, is bringing itself up
militantly against another hemisphere with an adoles­
cent culture. The very essences of both are preponder­
ant with tremendous misinterpretations— which of
course the Jews will capitalize to their expedient en­
hancements i.*
486
It must be to offset the constant threat of serious imposi­
tions, one by the other, that I believe the enduring Par­
liament of Man must be erected. But again I say, it
cannot be a parliament that is a glorified alliance.
That is exactly where the erstwhile League of Nations
made its worst blunder.
The perfect international political alliance— perfect in
a sense of stability and permanence— never has been set
up and never can be set up, and this for the reason that
alliances always partake of principalities and powers
that contain the seeds of their own disintegration.
A n alliance is ever an agreement— and a passing agree­
ment, as expediency of the military or economic caste
dictates— between princes of a sort, to render mutual aid
in the face of calamity that threatens one or all as a
result of their own ambitions, legitimate or illegitimate.
It partakes of principalities and power of which the
common man making up the real entourage of a nation
or a people can have small knowledge, by the very na­
ture of its composition. H e is actually the bagatelle of
martyrs in the political sense, and can never be anything
else, because his thinking cannot— certainly does not—
encompass the intricacies of the factors involved.
Neither can he deal mentally in the mathematical incal-
culables which world problems and racial maneuverings
involve tS*
The average man thinks neither in States nor in na­
tional problems as yet; first, because he has been ma­
liciously trained away from such considerings, and,
487
second, because he is too busy making his ow n living to
concern him self overmuch in the living of the masses—
which is w hy he is average.
of powers w hose representatives were to sit more or less
W ilson's League of Nations was exactly that, a chamber
permanently and consider problems that had never be­
fore been propounded to the various countries in as­
sembly. Certain appointed representatives from the
countries who became members, were supposed to
gather about a perpetual peace table, and instead of
squabbling for a few weeks or months, grabbing what
they could grab and then going home, they were sup­
posed to squabble the calendar around and make a per­
manent em ploym ent of grabbing.
In other words, the League of Nations in session was a
chamber of delegates or minor ambassadors, given no
powers in themselves, but forming, together, a body of
deputies w ho could perpetually watch one another and
try to figure out what each one was after.
This was not government.
It was not federation.
It was political espionage of a camouflaged order.
Not a single attendant could make a m ove or propose
a resolution without consulting his government, and
when he spoke it w as merely as a mouthpiece for his
government. Not even the silica of com m on menace
was present, to bring their workings into common reso­
lution. A hodge-podge of nationalities had merely come
together, hoping thereby to perform som e extraordinary
488
feats of political magic, and giving a likely forum for
the airing of grievances.
True, it was only a first gesture, a vague and groping
m ove toward consideration of antagonisms and inter­
racial abuses that must some day find flower in a genuine
parliament. And behind it was ever the malodorous
Jew, hoping to see something crystallize that would
further strengthen Judah’s clutch on organized
Christendom £? Jfc*
But political organizations, even international political
organizations, that hope to endure and function effi­
ciently, are not put together so.
The League of Nations, from its very first session, was
wrong in its construction. And I can best expound what
I mean by describing the construction of a true Parlia­
ment of Man that will endure and effect those achieve­
ments worthy of the ideals that will bring it into being.
<J Before I do so, however, I want to lay down the
premise that I do not believe any such parliament can
be instigated wholesale— that is to say, that all the na­
tions of the earth, with their varied and ofttimes an­
tagonistic cultures and feuds, can be brought together en
masse and made to conform to orderly procedures.
Infantile internationality, like infantile humanity, must
creep before it walks, and walk before it runs. To be at
all successful in its operations from the start, any gesture
toward internationality of integrity must not attempt to
cover too much territory or take in too many diverse
elements. Furthermore, those elements which go to
489
make it up, in the infancy and childhood of the m ove­
ment, should be as consanguinous as possible, with as
nearly a common culture as connivable and with a gen­
eralized knowledge of each others’ speech.
This should maintain until certain precedents are estab­
lished for the conduct of a larger and more complex
body and in order that initial antagonisms, animosities
and racial aggravations might be held to a minimum.
€J Commonsense would indicate that it would be far
more preferable to have an embryonic Parliament of
Man made up of, say, three great nations, each of whom
understood the others’ psychologies and something of
their culture, who traveled along the same avenues of
reasoning to arrive at conclusions, and whose conclu­
sions from such thinking were rational within the psy­
chologies of all; than to have a parliament comprising
a bedlam of statesmen from every race merely to have
those races represented in entirety. Such numbers
would mean that no one representative could make
himself heard; thus there would be constant turmoil
of disgruntlement because each was ineffective, bring­
ing a thousand discordant factors in with racial per­
sonalities and doing more mischief than no parliament
at all, because its very size would render it unwieldy.
€J After all, the main business of such a parliament will
be to put an end to war, and to so legislate on lesser
matters that good is accomplished without offense being
given to any nation in the face of its sovereignty.
But even with such precautions either taken or recom-
490
mended, the structure of such a body should be far, far
different from anything that has been proposed to date
in inter-statehood.
IITHERTO we have been introduced to an
international war-preventing, super-po-
F*| H litical structure in terms of a super-State,
&»V25^SEOT made up of the representatives of the
various governments involved as they may
be commissioned so to act, and dispatched at executive
or legislative decree to take their places in the interna­
tional lists and gain such voice for their countries as
they can i p i p
We are introduced further to the hypothesis of such a
super-State’s being empowered with the direction of
colossal ordnance to enforce its findings, to compel the
smaller and weaker adherents to submit as graciously
as possible to its fiats, to ignore the proud sovereignty of
peoples as peoples, and to attempt to legislate for all
humanity as the altruisms or animosities of the larger
and stronger members might decide.
Righteous goose pimples break out upon the flesh of
patriotic Americans when they envision so powerful a
State as Great Britain thereby telling their government
what its trade routes may be, what ships it may sail and
where it may sail them, what imposts, levies, and tariffs
it shall set, how many men it shall have in its standing
army and how it shall equip them.
The Englishman, the German, the Frenchman, all have
491
similar seizures at such probabilities— each sensing the
loss of racial integrities, which again are but synonyms
for cosmic designations.
All of it is predicated upon the assumption that such
political maneuverings shall be fashioned and authorized
on the impractical League of Nations principle, where
again Might makes Right and the smaller bow to the
fiats of the strongest.
The real Parliament of Man toward which all rations1
peoples are working, and which will come in time if
present trends continue, will derogate and dismiss all
these archaic and trouble-breeding notions. And here
will be the secret: It will be a parliament of Mankind,
not of delegates of sovereignties.
Do you grasp what this means in all its fraught fe­
cundities? is *
W hy has no one envisioned the true Parliament of Man
in the abject terms of the man in the street?
That is to say, why has it never occurred to anyone—
much less to governments themselves— to speculate on
the possibilities of an international body that is set up
and sustained by the average citizens of the countries
involved, exactly as the federal government of the
United States is set up and sustained by the average
citizens of the several American States, without the
slightest infringements of States’ Rights to the latter and
with no menace to the sovereignty of the federal struc­
ture in that it derives its just powers from the consent
of the governed?
492
Conjectured in popular terms, w e hear the objection
voiced that ‘‘no one wants to see the flag of any super­
government flying above the Grand Old Stars and
Stripes,” and in the jingoism thus propounded w e go far
afield from the model Parliament of Man buttressed
upon the political notions and procedures of the already
tried-and-proven United States Government. I say
Am en to the sentiment myself. But in the larger sense
I ask w hy this implication of inferior sovereignty needs
to come to fruit at all. Put it in this w ay—
The citizen of Dodge City, Kansas, is first of all a com­
ponent unit in the municipal government of Dodge City
as the smallest political entity w e have in America today.
But the citizen of Dodge City, Kansas, by no means
stops there in his citizenship, nor in his membership in
other political bodies quite as potent to his individual and
collective welfare. He is next a component of the great
State of Kansas. He pays State taxes for State purposes
and periodically foregathers with his fellow citizens to
elect a State Governor and State Congress. But again
he does not stop there.
Over and above the foregoing two citizenships, he is also
a component unit in the United States of America. In­
dependently of his tax paying and voting as a resident
of Dodge City, independently of his tax paying and vot­
ing as a resident of the State of Kansas, and certainly
in no case interfering with either, he is lastly a com­
ponent unit of his national government; he likewise
pays his Federal taxes and once in four years he gathers
493
at the polls with his fellows and declares w ho shall run
the country as a nation among nations.
H e sees nothing competitive, inharmonious, or incon­
gruous, in being three separate and distinct citizens in
his political practices in the same time and person.
I say to him, “Very well, then, what is there especially
competitive, inharmonious, or incongruous, in making
one further representation and also becoming a com­
ponent unit in an Aryan Federation that shall decide on
great measures between the nations, as the dignitaries
of the Federal government now decide on great meas­
ures between the several States?”
Only in the conjectured Federation— and forming it
quite as consistently and efficiently— there must be Ger­
mans from Germany instead of from Hoboken, and
Englishmen from Great Britain instead of from Massa­
chusetts— in other words, the true Parliament of Man
must be representative of the individual citizens of all
the international States involved, with quite the same
integrity that w e now include the various nationalities
residing in America as parts of the American States
themselves. But the structure should not stop there.
Such a structure cannot be “super” anything. It must
be a separate and distinct entity, coexistent and co­
functioning with all the other political entities of which
the individual is a member, and brought into existence
and preserved to accomplish definite aims and objectives
which the individual nations of themselves could never
pronounce t!* Jfcj*
494
It must have its own Constitution, specifically drawn
and specifically operating, to go beyond the stipulations
of which, shall render such acts quite as invalid as are
unconstitutional procedures attempted by the American
States or groups or individuals within them today.
It must concern itself in, and traffic in, only those meas­
ures which nations singly cannot adjudicate without
the alternative recourse to war. But more than all else,
it must derive its just powers from the consent of the
governed, meaning definitely that from first to last, in
every office and every indenture of an office, it must be
composed and controlled of and by the average people,
the ordinary voters, of the countries comprising it.
It should have a Senate made up of delegates chosen by
member governments to represent them as such. It
should have a House of Representatives chosen by the
individual nationals of the member countries according
to population. It should have powers of taxation to
raise funds for its own purposes, but they should be
levied on the citizen, not upon governments composing
it. It should have its own world police force— not in a
single instance derived from the ordnance of any of the
member nationals but extraneous to it.
Let the nations of the world build and retain their
navies; they would become analogous to the National
Guards of the several American States, ready for first
summons as national emergency might dictate, yet ever
officered by State officials, and augmentative of the Fed­
eration’s forces as expediency or emergency might
495
declare. It should have its own world Capital in some
neutral location like the Azores, a world-renowned Mec­
ca owned and supported by “world nationals.”
It should, in short, be the Republic of the N ations!
A philosopher’s dream ? Does anyone in his senses dare
to say that if the most forward-looking citizens of the
United States, Great Britain, and Germany, effected
such positive internationality on the lines set down, that
there could ever be another major conflict between these
great States, or that massing their united strengths and
their resources—and supported by the individual citi­
zens of the States involved— they, would not be in a
position to stop any conflict in any other part of the
world before it was begun?
Need loss of sovereignty be involved in the completion
of such a structure?
Need racial culture in any instance be jeopardized?
If the individual citizens of the United States, Canada,
Australia, England, Scotland, Ireland, and Germany,
were the ultimate political components of such a Feder­
ation, who would be less proud to be a citizen of it, or
necessarily hold it in higher esteem, than the resident of
Dodge City now holds his Federal government because
he is a native of Kansas, or holds his State government
because he is amenable to the ordinances passed by the
chairman of his home municipality?
Could Englishmen not be Englishmen under such a
political structure, insofar as their culture and racial in­
tegrity were concerned? Could Germans not be Ger-
496
mans? Yet project the com m on citizens of each, into
an arrangement whereby they were coexistently a citi­
zenry of such Republic of the Nations, and an interest
in the matters of internationality would automatically
be created that would inevitably sweep the earth.
Is it not reasonable to suppose, too, that as time went
on, and the beneficent workings of such a Republic be­
came apparent to other races, that they would seek re­
spectful and amenable entrance to such a structure quite
as avidly as the new ly established American territories
sought admission to the Union after the first Thirteen
Colonies had demonstrated the benefits of federaliza­
tion?
Contrast the possibilities of such a structure, with the
loose, wrangling, opinionated, taciturn, cantankerous
League of Nations as at present constituted, made up of
delegates from sovereign forums, given to blasphemies
of political conduct and setting up an impossible status
quo for those w ho follow after to preserve.
Nations-in-Law indeed!
T the present time w e are denizens of a
world that is but partially organized,
politically. W e in America are quite will­
ing to shout from the housetops that our
form and system of government are the
best upon the earth. But are w e prepared to prove it
by carrying it one notch higher and making it of prac­
tical recommendation for peoples of our own blood and
psychologies, in coalition with whom w e can dictate
with finality that the peace shall be kept?
I am not saying that this is the Utopia of the immediate
present. I am not so brash as to go before m y fellow
citizens with any recommendation that w e can at once
leap into such positive relationships. I have written
this work purely to express my own ideas and concepts
of what I believe is stirring in this world of the present,
on the principle that today’s phantasmagoria is tomor­
row ’s trite reality.
Once upon a time, for upwards of a hundred years,
speculative thinkers in this western hemisphere dared
to dream of an American Union exempted from harass-
ments of overseas stupidities. It took the indignities of
a British king’s stamp tax to weld human thinking and
make the Dream materialize. W ho shall say that in this
twentieth century w e shall not be confronted with auto­
cratic fiats quite as insufferable, crystallizing our hetero­
geneous psychologies as at present operating upon these
sizable matters and producing a condition where Aryan
man must coalesce or perish? Ponder on it well.
498
America’s part in any second W orld Tragedy, such as
the Jews projected in Europe in 1914, cannot help but
be significant. She is a country at present without a
foreign policy. Economically she must continue to
mind her ow n affairs more or less, or dissipate herself
in political and commercial abnormalities which add
nothing to youthful spirituality.
I have said elsewhere that America is the epitome of
what will shortly materialize universally, and I repeat
and emphasize m y statement.
I believe that America, and the American political ad­
venture, were projected from the start to cast a pattern
of a W orld Republic that should be visible to all races
as the thing which all mankind can attain in a political
structure over diverse nationals and racial groupings.
€| That is her mission.
That is her destiny.
W hen it is fulfilled— and not before— she will be will­
ing to pay less bombastic and adolescent attention to her
“sovereignty,” and do her share with other truly civi­
lized countries coming into and sustaining a world or­
ganization of indubitable worth.
But that time is not yet. The whole world must settle
the Jewish question first. For America to enter into any
sort of political alliance with Europe before the Great
Causation brings about the proper international struc­
ture, would be grievously abortive and is therefore not
permitted. Those statesmen who in the matter are
termed Irreconcilibles, are therefore nothing of the
499
sort. That “little group of wilful m en” so much dis­
paraged by professional pacifists— who in turn are but
contemptible satraps playing the subtly controlled mili­
tary game of rapacious Semitics— are but carrying out
the orders of great spiritual forces with the most mag­
nificent obedience and loyalty, albeit they are far from
aware of the roles thejr are playing and w hy they have
been given them.
W hen the time comes for the United States to take any
of the steps which I have outlined— mark me well in
this!— it is m y firm conviction that there will be found
sitting in the Chief Executive’s chair in this nation, a
man who has known of this Spiritual Machinery for
years, who has “been under orders” so to speak, even
as W oodrow W ilson was previously under orders of a
negative sort, to complete the bridging of all civilized
nations in their political intercourse with the World Re­
public. He will actualize the final fusion of the interests
of the individual citizens of the participating countries,
not callously tossing Am erica’s sovereignty into a hectic
bedlam of governmental deputies who are little more
than glorified ward-heelers obeying the dictates of their
several national bosses.
This man will have orders to lead the American people
into a World Republic of the Nationals— not against
their fears and wishes, not at the behest or connivance of
international Jewish overlords, not in the face of legis­
lative opposition, but with the full, free, and beneficent
consent of the millions whom he heads.
500
H e will coach and inspire the American people into their
Finality of Citizenship as hereinbefore sketched, not as
Chief Dem agogue seeking future aggrandizement in the
history books of a billion unborn school children, but as
a wise and kindly shepherd at the forefront of his flock,
having its perfect confidence and astutely making cer­
tain that the mutual destination is not the stalking
ground of wolves.
The burden on him will be colossal, but he will not bear
that burden— in the sense of mortal responsibility.
These great Spiritual Forces that have sustained and en­
nobled every American President in the esteem of
American humanity, and which sustain and ennoble
every true leader of peoples, w ill give him superhuman
wisdom and power to fill his brevet.
Let the American people read this as prophecy. It is
written large on the front page of every newspaper,
morning after morning.
The present trend of world event is in the direction of
cataclysm. More men are under arms in this year and
month than in any prior time within the history of the
race. M oney and credit have been mulcted from in­
dustry to emasculate the internal strength of the coun­
tries designated for attack. Science and inventiveness
daily announce more and more fearful instruments of
conflict. War goes into four dimensions: Land, Sea,
Marine Depth, and Stratosphere. Old equipments are
being scrapped. Phalanxes of pacifists are being sent
on ahead as the vanguards of the hosts of a new
501
Avernus. Strike a balance between supra-natural prog­
nostication and current newspaper reportings, and you
have a workable hypothesis for the interpretation of the
future ±5
tj The Moving Finger writes today as upon the banquet
walls of Babylon. And yet the picture is not one of
dolor, when w e view the Coming Scene through the
lenses of Clean Spirit!
502
THE THIRTY-THIRD DISCUSSION
N A T I O N S - IN - L A W
TH E THIRTY-THIRD DISCUSSION
O much for the nations taken as
a sheep flock under many shep­
herds. I called attention in my
first volume to the paradox:
Self-Governing Peoples. I ad­
vanced the argument in logic
that any people who needed
government could not be ex­
pected to supply it out of them­
selves, because a people in need of government is a peo­
ple in need of Discipline, and a people in need of Dis­
cipline cannot advance, out of themselves, that which
they thus lack. It would be much the same thing as a
citizen who is financially embarrassed saying: “I am
absolutely bereft of this world’s goods, I have neither
m oney nor resource. Therefore, out of m y lack of
wealth, I will proceed to meet my formidable obliga­
tions” ±jr ±*
W hat passes for Self-Government, therefore, in this
somewhat addled world of ours, is an agreement on the
part of a majority of the citizens that they will create
by mandatory acknowledgment a body of minority citi-
505
zens set apart from themselves, who shall have the rights
and prerogatives of inflicting penalties on the majority
— or rather, individuals constituting the majority— if, as,
and when certain statutes are violated.
These statutes are put forth to describe certain rights
which each member of the majority feels that he wants
to exercise, enjoy, and profit from, in his own case, and
because he wants to exercise, enjoy, and profit from
them in his own case, he concedes that his fellow citi­
zens do likewise in respect to themselves.
These rights being described— and being acknowledged
as wholesome in that they serve the constructive pur­
poses of life in the human form— a deliberately created
Minority Enforcement Caste is endorsed and supported
— a Caste that of itself is idealistically considered to be
above personal transgression or violation of the statutes
that it is created to preserve.
An ideal is served here, and an ideal only.
Mankind feels that a minority caste especially projected
and empowered to enforce certain statutes that make
for the enjoyment of rights desired by all men common­
ly, must of itself be above all transgression of those
rights else the majority suffers from the very thing
that it has created the Enforcement Caste to suppress
or restrain. If this Minority Enforcement Caste is equal­
ly guilty of transgression Or violation of those rights,
then its own purpose in creation is defeated.
But here is the rub: Humankind must select the mem­
bers of such Minority Enforcement Caste from a rank
506
and file of ordinary human beings not much different
in moral and mental development from those who desire
that the characteristics of its exclusiveness shall function.
€| The members of this caste, more popularly known as
Officialdom, are quite on a par with those they elect to
manage. Each one is daily and hourly exposed to all
the fears and hopes and weaknesses to which universal
human flesh is heir. He feels the same heat of the noon­
day and shivers from a similar chill after sundown. Un­
less his three meals per day are forthcoming, he suffers
the same pangs of hunger, and if this hunger be pro­
longed to physical unbearableness, he will adopt the
same primordial expedients to end it.
Again I say, there being no greater moral or mental
difference as between the rulers and the ruled, the de­
gree of demarcation is largely one of idealism on the
part of the Empowering Majority as to the Enforcing
Minority, and an academic distinction made to serve the
former instead of any sort of real physical or spiritual
supernaturality t$e j%f
Thus the police department of any given city is “sup­
posed” to be above venality or chicane. Its members
are a minority caste set apart to effect law-enforcement
— that is, statutory enforcement of regulations making
for a peaceable condition among all classes of citizens.
The city does not exist in the American Commonwealth
today, wherein a majority of the citizens could not, if
it so elected, physically overpower the total police force
and confine its members behind their own bars— that is,
507
as a matter of the numbers of one pitting themselves for
an exhibit of force against the numbers of the other.
Still, rarely does the majority consider such an act, no
matter how gross, corrupt, or incompetent such police
force becomes.
One lone patrolman, walking a darkened slum in uni­
form, is a poor match for any three thugs he may dis­
cover in the act of robbing a loft. Nevertheless, that
one lone patrolman, by the essence of his appointment
to subdue robbers in general, has the moral support of
all the law-abiding citizens of the city at his back.
Nothing is exercising here but an ideal.
It is the ideal of the policeman stalking through the slums
to guard them against robbers, as being an epitome of
the whole citizenry’s disapproval of crime— and en­
dorsement of punitive measures to suppress it—that en­
dows him with his moral courage and makes him a fac­
tor to be avoided in robber psychology.
The ideal here, therefore, is stronger than the man. Be­
cause the ideal is ever stronger than the man, so in time
the two become confused in the popular estim ation: the
ideal and the man. They interchange places, the ideal
and the man. The man becomes the ideal and the ideal
is the man.
W hen this interchange of identities has taken place over
a period of time, w e term the result a Tradition. A
tradition is a custom so long continued that it has the
force of law. It comes from the Latin term “trans,”
meaning “over” and “do,” meaning “give”— to “give
508
over” is its true translation— to surrender, or relinquish;
W e relinquish our idealistic concepts of the Policeman,
the Omnipotent Guardian, to the actualities of the po­
liceman, the very human man.
All this is because w e know that life lacks omnipotence
in any form in its humanly controlling factors, yet know­
ing that such are mandatory by the emergencies and ex­
cesses of life, w e poignantly create them by our ideals
and endow them with our wish-desires— in regard to im­
partiality— and power in enforcing rights and privileges.
W e have the same proposition in Voltaire’s apt com­
ment in regard to man and God. Voltaire commented
that “if there were no God, then man would have to
create Him, because of man’s necessity that H e exist.”
€J W hat God represents therefore, to man, in the celes­
tial state, the policeman or official of the Minority En­
forcement Caste represents in the earthly state.
Not having gods at hand physically, with their higher-
than-human powers, to dress in policemen’s uniforms
and protect humans, man essays the next best thing: He
creates an ideal of honor, courage, tenacity, and integri­
ty, and bestows it on the candidate for the policeman’s
job. Or rather, he takes the candidate for the police­
man’s job, introduces him to man’s idealism as to what
an incorrupt officer should be, and seeks to train the
rookie copper to live up to it in practice.
Living up to this ideal in practice, is the job!
But none of it, coming back to our consideration of Law,
is, in the frailest degree, Self-Government.
5 0 9
Nor is the fact that man socially recognizes his need for
the ideal policeman’s function, any aspect of self-dis­
cipline i? it*
Considered basically, it is rather Self-Defense.
The average man wants peace in his neighborhood, se­
curity from robbers in his possessions, his home and
w om enfolk’s chastity immune from depredation. Not
having a literal and physical god to call into the situation
and supply the superhuman force necessary to insure
these at times, he takes the ideal derived from the god-
omnipotence and asks the poor, frail, susceptible human
“cop,” to live up to it as he can. But underneath all of
it, naught but the self-defense, self-preservation, and
self-exemption m otive is at work.
Self-government, therefore, I reemphasize, is a pathetic
misnomer. Even the expedients that man embraces
to arrive at the god-effect, are in themselves vicarious.
C
JThe policeman shall do the things that the citizen
shrinks from doing.
The policeman is “paid” to attack the robber, stop the
riot, apprehend the rapist.
If man truly were capable of self-government, and act­
ually practiced it, he could dispense with the policeman.
H e could even go further. H e could dispense with the
misnomer of self-government itself.
W e are merely toying with wordy terms, therefore,
when w e talk bombastically of these things and accept
that they are actual.
A nd what goes for the common citizen of America in
510
this regard, goes for the nation— with its paid army and
naval forces— and for nations as nations— brushing
shoulders with each other.
We are wanting, on this earth, in a higher omnipotent
power to physically knock heads together, keep each
man on his own lawful property where he belongs by
principles of equity, and stop the kleptomaniac and mis­
creant from taking advantage of the peaceable citizen’s
desire to live peaceably. So we embrace the next best
thing— the ideal pushed forth in a “governing” official­
dom, supposed to be above suspicion in integrity, and
considered in idealism even when inside knowledge and
worldly wisdom admits of the reverse.
ZE tiU & fM HESE fundamentals we must remember
when we look abroad in these present
Dark Ages, and try to comprehend such
actionist forces displaying among all na­
tions as Communism, Fascism, New-Deal-
ism, and most of the other isms that chiefly serve to be­
fuddle those who seek to understand them.
Orderly man wants protection and what he calls a Square
Deal from his more disorderly brethren. A Square Deal,
of course, is merely his choice of words in expressing
the bargaining-thought that he will exchange his own
circumspect behavior for circumspect behavior from his
neighbor. He takes many methods for effecting this or­
der and protection. Or rather, he acknowledges that
it is perhaps possible for him to gain to them by sub-
511
scribing to any one of three forms of super-control pro­
jected by men following one of three philosophies—
First, the military or police-arm of the autocrat;
Second, the military or police arm of a political party;
Third, the military or police arm of a senate composed
of representatives of many castes and classes.
In the entire history of human life on earth w e discover
no traces of any fourth method or measure that has ever
been conceived by human mind, or tried. Therefore,
finding it not to exist, w e conclude, as rational beings,
that it does not exist in this octave of our consciousness
in any conceivable pattern.
Som e might ask w hy I do not include in m y list the mili­
tary or police arm of a sheer democracy, calling m y at­
tention to the phenomenon of Athens or the Grecian
City States in the days before the Roman ascendancy.
They advance such suggestion, or inquiry, because they
themselves are not erudite in what actually happened in
those “democracies” so identified.
Majorities of men by mobs, or sheer balances of human
power, never yet have acted of themselves, and as such
strictly, in the ordering of military or police forces, for
the simple reason that they have never been able to make
themselves coherent. A lw ays they have had to bend
to som e aspect of a senate— called, in such “democracy,”
a People’s Assem bly— or to a Themistocles or Periscles,
to make their mass or majority voices identifiable to such
military or police servants. So the idea of a “democracy”
resolves itself, under examination, to the actuality of the
512
Senate Expedient. The mere fact that great numbers
of hysterical humans play the temporary roles of the
senators themselves— as in the wild legislative orgies of
the Reign of Terror— does not alter the principle.
Human life itself is not so organizable that a whole peo­
ple of a nation or a State— even a city state— can gather
in one assembly, at one time, continue sitting constantly
to attend to the public business that endures from year’s
end to year’s end, divide into the groups for a measure
and against a measure, and carry it or lose it by bloc yea
and nay votings. The blood-crazed fools who packed
the People’s Assem bly of Paris in 1789 were only a
very small aspect of the whole French peasantry that
had affected to treat with the aristocracy by violence,
that its wrongs might be redressed. This peasantry in
that particular instance merely projected the senate-rep­
resentative idea by dispensing with orderly electoral sys­
tems for the appointing of such representatives. Those
who were upon the scene and could do so, jammed in
and took the seats, affecting to speak for the lower-
brackets of France generally because mob violence
would have been visited swiftly on anyone rash enough
to oppose them.
No, my proposition stands. Mankind has had one of
three systems to follow in given states and periods, to
get the effect of officialdom that in turn commands the
military or civic policeman: The single man, and the
single brain, espoused in the seat of single-voiced au­
thority; the group of men agreeing upon a platform of
513
action which the masses support or condemn; or the
chamber of deputies in some form or other, speaking
and acting in the name of the whole people by right of
constitutional identification.
Strangely enough, w e get a weird analogy to these three
in the organization of orthodox theology: God, the
Host, and the Church.
God is the autocrat.
The Host is the celestial political party.
The Church is the senate or chamber of deputies on
earth, issuing the mundane orders in the octave of physi­
cal action.
Queerly enough, too, in celestiality w e have all three
present and functioning, whereas in worldly systems
of so-called government, all three present and function­
ing in the same arena would mean social bedlam
W e do not need to follow this line of reasoning, how­
ever, in respect to the phenomena of celestiality It
is merely a capricious observation that leads nowhere.
€J Man has three systems of civil control to choose from,
to embrace, endorse, or repudiate, as he looks at his
life on the earth of the present.
W e shall examine each, therefore, in the pages remain­
ing in this book, and observe the merits or demerits of
each ±jr
Today w e might identify them in popular employment
by pointing to Stalinism as the embodiment of the first.
Fascism as the embodiment of the second, and Ameri­
can Republicanism— modeled on the Roman republi-
514
canism— as the embodiment of the third i? il* t?
Nevermind what the propaganda of the selfishly-conniv­
ing Jew screeches to the contrary, to the dispassion­
ate student in such matters they are actually three dis­
tinct and separated forms of moral procedure for the
control of men in masses making the conceded State.
W e have no bias in considering each of these three,
excepting that you will note that I have named the to­
talitarian condition of civics maintaining in Russia as
of this year 1938, not as Communism but as Stalinism.
€J Communism does not exist in Russia under the rule
of the tyrannical Bolsheviks. Communism as such, is
a system— or at least a theory—of government and so­
cial order according to which, property and instruments
of production are held as a common trust and the prof­
its arising from all labor devoted to the general good.
No such thing is happening, or being practiced, within
the territory of the erstwhile czars.
The instruments of production are not held as any com­
mon trust among the Russian people except in name and
theory; they are held in the hands of one of the most
absolute racial tyrannies this world has ever known il*
Its profits arising from labor are not devoted to the com­
mon good, first, because there can be no “profits” ac­
cruing to a whole people— as I have shown, I think, in
m y book “No More Hunger”—-but only to an individ­
ual, or firm of individuals, enhanced in his or their for­
tunes as a result of the misfortunes or losses of certain
other parties. And in Russia’s case, even if there were
515
profits, they certainly are not being applied to the com­
mon good, since anyone in present-day Russia who does
not concur in the fiats of the Jewish-Bolshevik Party as
expressed through Stalin and his kommissars, is prompt­
ly taken out and shot.
No, Communism is merely a lip-term that has been com­
mandeered as a camouflage to entrap the unlearned in
such matters, just as at present w e are having the same
subversion practiced in this country in referring to our
constitutional republic as a “democracy” ip
W e should call it Stalinism— or Judaism— and name it
properly ip ip
E H A V E, then, man seeking personal or
family security that is based on some sort
of armed protection against the depreda­
tions of ruffianism, and making primor-
dially what I have termed elsewhere the
Social Contract— either with one man, one party-group
of men, or an assembly of caste deputies— that in return
for physical, moral, or financial support or tribute, he
obtains the services of some sort of constabulary that
keeps open the avenues of social intercourse so that he
can pursue his wholesom e private projects.
No matter, for the moment, how any one of the three of
these— the man, the party, or the chamber— comes
into recognized authority or candidacy for this homage.
W hat w e want to know is: what are the features dis­
tinguishing such service in any one of the three, that
516
the other two are lacking, and what are the features mak­
ing it of menace— or at least depredation—-to his person­
al concerns and privy projects?
We are forced by the nature of the circumstances, and
what has already gone into three or four hundred pages
of this work, to consider first the One-Man Tyranny
and what its increments may be as its premises may be
maneuvered
517
TH E THIRTY-FOURTH DISCUSSION
N A T I O N S - I N - L A W
3 9 TH E THIRTY-FOURTH DISCUSSION 39
T IS a phenomenon of human
consciousness that all souls en-
housed in physical bodies, or
finding expression in the world­
ly scene by reason of using
mortal bodies as mechanisms,
do not derive the same pleas­
ures or profits from forcing
other souls— similarly enhoused
or equipped— to live their worldly careers after patterns
which the first set up from caprice or mania. On the
other hand, there are souls who enter into performings
in the earth octave for no other reason than to domi­
nate the comings and goings of others, prescribe their
customs and their habits, order their securities or inse­
curities, and generally shape the nature of their life-
careers 3 9
W e must strip such eccentricities down to the very
chassis of human motivations to understand these dif­
ferences, and call upon the profoundest wisdom with
which w e are in touch to give us light on the reasons
for such specializings.
521
W hy are some people born leaders and other people
born followers?
W hy does one man delight in taking responsibility and
dictating to his neighbors, his city, or his nation, as to
how public life should be, whereas another shrinks from
bearing such burdens, is overcome with embarrassment
if he be singled out for the slightest attention, and never
seems to have an original idea from N ew Year’s to Christ­
mas— about anything from the public welfare to the
price of cheese?
Let us say that two men are called out at random from
a given stretch of sidewalk. They are of corresponding
height. They step on the scales and the beam indicates
that the planet has the same pull for the bodies of the
both of them. They eat the same type of food. They
dwell in twin houses. Each has enjoyed the same edu­
cational advantages and been reared under the same
laws of the same social system. They have arrived at
approximately the same total of earthly years and been
exposed to the same climate, government, and social
culture. All the same, these two are different.
One glories in taking initiative, in calling attention to
himself, in handling himself without assistance in any
social, economic, or political situation. If insult be
hurled at him, he retaliates with zest. If he considers
that he has certain rights, and they be trespassed upon,
his temper flares, his indignation mounts, he bristles
with combat, and if enough provocation be afforded
him he will wreak physical injury upon those w ho heck-
522
le or obstruct him— or seek redress at the law and de­
sist not till compensation has been made him.
The other man is strictly a herd animal. H e does what
others do— in that he sees them doing it— and because
all men appear to act thus-and-so, he is ready to follow
suit. H e never strikes out on a new tack for himself—
any such prospect fills him with alarm. If he be in a
situation where he is singled out against the group, his
knees quake, his heart depresses. He actually experi­
ences a sort of pain to discover the eyes of the rabble
upon him jfejf
W hen it comes to conducting his affairs, this second
man must at all times have the backing, or ati least the
approbation, of his fellows, and if it be not forthcoming,
he is perturbed and “lost” j%f Insult hurled at him pro­
vokes small remonstrance— in fact he is almost eager
to concur with the aggressor that he is a no-account
human worm. That he has rights does not make him
proud, and loss of them does not upset him. H e mar­
vels that other men can become wrought up at usurpa­
tion, insolence, chicanery, or mass deceits.
The whole career and life-adventure of this second man
are timorous apologies for being in life at all. He
covets initiative but is more inclined to wonder where
other men get it than to try to realize that he may culti­
vate, practice, and enjoy it for himself.
W e say that his character is weak, vacillating, morbid
or capricious, inconstant, unreliable— as the instance
may divulge. But it only occurs to a few of us to won-
523
der as to w hy this second man should happen to be thus
fragile— just as w e never bethink to question how the
first man came by his disquieting— and sometimes damn­
ing— self-sufficiency.
Yet something is lacking in the second man that the
first has to surfeit. Or rather, w e might put it that the
first man has som ehow developed himself along the
pathway of his lives in a manner which the second man
has neglected.
Still, common earth-experiences have been visited on
both! ±*
Considered objectively, each man of the pair is an in­
tegrity unto himself and if given appropriate conditions
would live out his life in his own fashion without seri­
ously disturbing the universe. W hen the two are
brought into contact, however, or set down in propin­
quity in the common arena, drama of a sort ensues be­
tween them. The man with initiative at once consid­
ers it his prerogative to dominate over the man who so
obviously lacks it. The man who lacks it, permits the
other to browbeat or victim ize him, and does not seem to
see anything particularly remiss within his own charac­
ter that he should pacifically endure it.
W hy are these two so sharply demarcated?
W here did the first man get his initiative, his temper,
his pride, his independence, his tendency to dictate to
affairs instead of allowing affairs to dictate to him? jfc*
H ow comes it that the second man has not acquired
these qualities, and offers himself masochistically as
524
the prey of the more rapacious— even deriving a vague
morbidity from the fact that he is a follower and not a
leader ±*
A s w e determine these positive and negative attributes
in the human character, w e shall approach toward a solu­
tion of the distinctions w e have set forth as condition­
ings of social and political rulership.
LL LIFE is predatory — that principle is
generally recognized but inaccurately un­
derstood €| Life seems predatory — at
least in the natural world. The eagle is
the plunderer of the hawk, the hawk at­
tacks and lives upon the wren, the wren exists by hunt­
ing and consuming the moth. W e get the word preda­
tory from the old Latin term “praedor”—which indi­
cates prey, booty, plunder, or pillage.
Students who logicize from the materialistic basis, who
lack the proper esoteric fundamentals for the interpre­
tation of life, think that all of it is very terrible.
Nature, they declare, is “cruel”i y She takes no account
of the individual, nor of the identified instance of sen­
tient suffering. Nature has no emotion, she is without
pity, compassion, or spiritual concern for anything that
comes within the orbit of her influence.
W hy, for instance, should Nature make butcher-birds,
that attack starlings for seemingly the sheer lust of kill­
ing, hanging them upon the needles of the thornbush
and leaving them dead, as their mission of existence?
525
<fl N ow the thing w e must try to understand in such ex­
amples of apparently conscienceless performance, is the
objective which Nature, and Nature’s God, are striving
to arrive at, in servicing worldly life with such hectic
inconveniences. W hether it be the example in perform­
ance of the ruthless butcher-bird, or the bloody tyrant
who slays ten thousand men in order to walk upon the
parapets of a stricken and vanquished city— obviously
for no other reason than to gratify his vanity— there
must be a constructive principle at work or all life must
be dismissed as meaningless and sterile. A nd life— in
no form in which w e find it— is ever meaningless or
sterile, else w e should never find plausible solutions for
such eccentric occurrences at all.
Rest assured that w e do find such plausible solutions.
<| Looking into the nature of these predatory phenom­
ena as between life-form and life-form, and examining
it for compensations and enhancements to obtain a key
to the mystery, w e perceive that directly profitable re­
sults always attend from persecution.
It matters not whether the persecution be for allegiance
to a forbidden spiritual faith on the part of a heretical
people, or persecution of the rabbit by the nocturnal
owl, the same compensations accrue in both cases A*
flfl Vigilance in escaping the persecution— or the pain or
social inconvenience resulting from the persecution—
is generated. This vigilance makes for physical, men­
tal, or spiritual adroitness. Physical, mental, or spirit­
ual adroitness— that the pains from persecution be not
526
suffered— has the peculiar effect of causing the perse­
cuted entity to declare unto itself: “I am m yself! 1
have existence! I have function and sentient effects
from conscious function!”
This calling of the mental or spiritual attention to the
fact that the entity exists in the sentient state, that it has
election in its own right whether to stay and suffer or
flee and not suffer, that it is— in a manner of speaking
— a free moral agent, discovering traits within itself that
provide for escape or surrender, with physical extinction
the price of sloth, is the whole decalogue of Life in the
great material octave.
Every aspect of life, from gnat in the sunset afterglow
to the archangel molding the spiral nebula, is engaged
in the act of discovering traits within itself that only
the predatory drama could produce.
It is as though Life said unto itself: “The God-Creator,
which man terms Nature, may have set the conditions,
but whether or not I choose to accept and endure them
is strictly up to m y spiritual decision in the matter. If I
decide not to accept and endure them, then am I mak­
ing other conditions in mine own right. Thus am 1
copying God to such extent, that it is possible for me
to set the conditions. And in the ratio that I thus copy
God, I prove to m yself that I too may partake of the
highest G od-function.”
W hoever creates a condition— any sort of a condition—
is a God. So from playing at being God, because all
conditions are forever a matter of spiritual acceptance.
Life in its evolving manifestations gradually comes into
the realization that it indeed IS God, or the spiritual
essence from which God is derived.
Thus Life first becomes experiment with Fact. Then
Life becomes Decision. In that Life finally reaches de­
cision, it proceeds to Awareness of Self as abstract
postulation. W hat at first was mere reaction to stimuli
becomes, down one day, the finest flower of conscious
projection of divine initiative in exploitation of forms
and idealisms that finally hurl galaxies out from the
frictions of its self-sufficient spiritual manifestings.
O, when w e come to view Nature as the
original projection of conditions against
the background of which—or in friction
with which— individualized self-aware­
ness finally makes self-discovery a career
with compounding increment, w e perceive that Nature
is not heartless, Nature is not ruthless, Nature is not dis­
passionate, or cruel, or impersonal. Nature is simply
a set of primordial conditions against which, or within
which, all that acquires self-awareness and the develop­
ment of self-awareness through alteration of conditions
by discriminatory election, finds itself, to itself, for the
thing that it is, or holds fecundities for being, in the
Ultimate
This being accepted as a principle of Cosmos, nothing
can be predatory. That which is considered to be
predatory is forever educational, or opportunity for self-
528
election manifesting in some type of motion i f i f
Butcher-birds exist for the profitable— and therefore
benevolent— purpose of teaching starlings that they are
starlings, that they are endowed with bird-election
whether to stay and be hung on a thorn bush or flit with
a flash of wings beyond the butcher-bird’s reach. In
the act of deciding not to stay and become impaled upon
the thorn, the starling develops vigilance of mind,
adroitness of wing, perception of opportunities for alter­
ing natural conditions in the bird-world and command­
ing destiny with deliberate forethought.
This is the first step in revealing to the starling that down
a thousand millenniums its life-particle may find itself
far from the starling-consciousness with which it started
out, and discern itself as monarch over planetary sys­
tems— a form of self-projecting natural force which even
mortals of present development have no apparatus for
conceiving i f i f
Life constructed upon this educational basis must of
necessity be an evolving life. But what is evolvem ent
in such aspect but constant spiritual discovery of non-
suspected possibilities? Now, applying the same cosmic
principle to the understanding of the differences in the
two men whom w e summoned out from the sidewalk,
w e begin to discern light on what was previously a bed-
lamic mystery i f i f
The man who has initiative, resourcefulness, temper,
self-sufficiency— in short, Character— must simply have
come to know more about himself, and his spiritual
529
fecundities and capabilities for altering the conditions
of his mortal career and captaining his ow n soul, than
the offensive little rabbit of a citizen who quakes in his
boots when three men take note of him.
The first man has profited from reaction to various types
of stimuli causing him to declare unto himself: “No
matter what condition Life turns up, I have within m y­
self all capabilities for m eeting and dominating it. I
have made the discovery that no matter what compli­
cations I become involved in, I possess the spiritual
acumen to command them .”
The second man, obviously, has made no such discov­
eries. It has not as yet occurred to him in the human
or mortal state to realize that he actually is ALIVE. He
is pitifully unaware that all life exists as a laboratory in
which he is to prove himsef for the content of his
spiritual elements. W e say that he has not as yet learned
to trust himself, which the first man has done with
astounding revelations as to his intrinsic merit— som e­
thing that has been inherent in him from the commence­
m ent of the Cosmos in which he has ever been a unit
but which trial-and-error experimenting, under practical
em ploym ent of his faculties, had to bring forth.
It is all a matter of spiritual awareness of fecundities of
essence
The degree of this awareness at any point in Cosmos,
w e com m only term the Degree of Evolution.
But w e do not evolve! W e merely recognize!
Suffering is the process by which spiritual essence ac-
530
quires an appraisal of itself as comprising from the
beginning all it shall ever manifest.
Thus come the diversities in so-called human nature.
The first man has discovered more about himself, and
the fecundities of his Godhood to dictate experience-
conditions, than the second man has done. He acts on
this revealment. Acting on such revealment grows
automatic in his habits. H e says, colloquially, that “he
is as good as the next man” and proceeds to prove it by
standing his ground and bashing his insolent or pre­
sumptuous neighbor’s head.
H e has forthwith made the discovery, or had it disclosed
to him, that bashing a neighbor’s head causes said neigh­
bor to shun him, and as his neighbor shuns him, the
said neighbor takes his malodorous characteristics along
in such shunning.
From being the starling, such a one makes the first grop­
ing attempt at operating as the butcher-bird himself .£*
€J Discovering that unpleasant— not to say intolerable
— conditions may be altered for pleasant and tolerable
conditions by the simple act of exerting the personality
and specifying how far imposition shall endure, the
revelation comes to such a one that Life may comprise
precisely what self-election pronounces and naught else.
€fl So—in the fact that all this is the positive and nega­
tive aspects of spiritual exercise, and that for every
action there must be a reaction, and for every problem a
solution— our first man has moved up toward exercis­
ing in his own small, gross, fumbling manner the next
531
revelation that truly he IS God-Essence, but operating
under the mortal handicap. The day will come when
he will shed even the mortal handicap, but sentient
existence in still a higher octave will only repeat upon
the process and give him other aspects of the same vast
fundamental j%f
The ingredients or performings of his environment will
change, but not his ability to react along lines of self­
discrimination and hence moral evolution. That will
merely strengthen, or— as w e say— our man will grow
stamina J%
f
From this simple principle do w e perceive the causations
for such phenomena as mortal leaderships.
The essence of leadership under the conditionings of
any octave, is but the display of previous discoveries
that self-sufficiency is not an acquisition but an uncover­
ing, not a growth but an unfoldment.
Men lead because they have come to that point in such
uncoverings and unfoldings that they trust their own
capabilities to treat with any emergency with which the
octave may confront them.
Leaders have made the simple and yet profound dis­
covery that no human problem exists without a comple­
menting solution, but that all solutions to problems lie
not in those problems as abstract propositions but in
the one who addresses himself to them, finding the solu­
tion within his own essence.
532
A N in this earth-world, w e can safely set it
down, is engaged in the business of dis­
covering that he is Baby G od! The
experiences of certain Baby Gods are
such, however, that they make discoveries
about their unfoldable talents at a faster pace than
others, or they subject themselves to trial-and-error ex-
periencings which serve to bring the colossal fecundities
of their infolded talents home to the sphere of their con­
sciousness— or the focal-point of consciousness express­
ing spherically.
Others do no such thing. They are the more inhibited
in that venturing which alone uncovers discrimination
and agility of body, mind, and psyche. They have not
“lived” long enough to becom e aware of the mighty
hoax that these mortal Baby Gods play upon one
another in bandying the notion that they are creatures
of clay and dust, fated to non-existence when the fleshly
mechanism stops.
But this is potent—
Just as Nature provides a pastoral arena for the owl to
provoke the rabbit, or the starling to flee the butcher­
bird, so in the higher realm— or octave— of mortality in
the human sense, the same Overbrooding Providence
provides the weaker or less-aware soul with juxtaposi­
tion to the stronger, older, wiser, and more predatory
temperament in his fellow human.
This state of friction in which the older in revealment
and the “younger in self-disclosure” operate, is called
533
Society. And because the predatory or self-reliant
temperament does not always gauge accurately the edu­
cative endurance of the younger and less-aware tempera­
ment, and inflicts conditions that may cause the younger
and less-aware temperament to perish physically, or
become grievously damaged psychologically, there are
norms of restraining forces introduced.
These are called Governments.
Strong, wise, self-reliant, self-sufficient souls need no
governments to operate for their own cases, as w e have
argued earlier in this book. A lw ays governments are a
matter of giving the weaker, the more ignorant and timid
temperaments, the chance to grow strong by a gauged
and tested tempo, as indicated or demonstrated by mass
experiences that when coded are called History.
Thus by still another route do w e approach the phe­
nomenon of the instrument by which this control is
achieved in the practical sense.
It may be proffered by a single individual of outstand­
ing self-reliance, by a Party that combines the thinking
of a group in expressions of social regulation, or in a
chamber of deputies authorized by the weak to protect
them in their weakness.
But if it be proffered by the single individual of out­
standing self-reliance, then facility of single-brain m ove­
ment and expedited executiveship must always become
counter-balanced by the tendency of that self-reliant
soul to experiment in commandings of weaker or
younger mortal destinies and observe how far it shall
534
be permitted even by mass weakness to flaunt such dis­
covered strength.
For even mass weakness may develop a strength of its
own, that the weakness itself may not be aware of until
after such strength has been demonstrated. If this
sounds paradoxical, consider that all Life is a paradox
itself
Starting in as life, it tests itself by applying the test of
life to something that already is proving itself for what
it is by its capacity to live at all.
535
THE THIRTY-FIFTH DISCUSSION
N A T I O N S - I N - L A W
4 y TH E THIRTY-FIFTH DISCUSSION Ijr
O go back a bit, the ethnologist
or historian without High­
er Octave wisdom to aid
him in discernments, assumes
as a fact of life that Man above
all else wants security in the
mortalized condition in which
he discovers himself, subse­
quent to each physical birth.
This insistence on security, which becomes a mania after
a few hectic contacts with natural vicissitudes, is called
in the physical sense, Self-Preservation. In the mental
sense it is observed as being Social Integration. In the
spiritual sense it exhibits as Orthodoxy—which in any
religious concept is a sort of break-proof fence set about
the Elysian Fields. W hat man in any one of these three
is really trying to achieve, is a standardization of condi­
tions with which his sentient spirit may treat, that by
adaptability of such psyche to them he may gradually
become the arbiter of circumstance.
W hat man truly wants when he speaks of Security,
therefore, is environmental friction and abrasion reduced
539
to a minimum of discomfort, and the emasculation of
natural circumstances— through his adaptability or
otherwise— to that point where any alteration in the
circumstances does not occur and transpire at a swifter
tempo or pace than his capacity for adaptation in every
instance i$f
It is necessary for us to understand thoroughly this
analysis of Security, and discern the basic urge behind
it, before w e can hope to comprehend what I shall
presently designate as the Jurisdictional Cycle.
The Jurisdictional Cycle is something that too few eth­
nologists, sociologists, and historians, take note of.
It is the spiraling order of progression which Man en­
gages in, as between types of rulership, in his constant
mania to forever preserve the status quo— where by
reason of perfected adaptability to circumstances or en­
vironment the latter may hold no proclivities toward his
hurt i? ±#
The astute among us are beginning to see that there is
an integrated relationship as between one-man rule,
party rule, and deputy-chamber rule, thence over into
one-man rule again and around the cycle— or spiral—
with a constant upward trend.
W e shall discuss this phenomena in a moment.
W hat the ethnologist or historian— without Higher Oc­
tave wisdom to aid him in his discernments— does not
always grasp, is the Benevolent Impulse in Nature as
defined in the last Discussion, working continually for
the shattering of security that man by his constant mania
540
to preserve the status quo may increase in the stature of
his knowledge of himself.
Putting it in another way, the alarms, menacings, and
jeopardies of earth-life are not strictly alarms, menac­
ings, and jeopardies, but the purposeful stimuli deliv­
ered to life that Life in reacting to them may discover
the celestial potentialities infolded within itself and
thereby achieve a more marvelous knowledge of the
lurking mystery in the statement, “I A M !”
TTER security would mean the arrestment
of a wholesom ely unfolding sfclf-aware-
ness. It would result in an inhibited
spiritual development, or a halted progres­
sion out of the original celestial envelope.
On the other hand, the environment or social integration
should not be disturbed with too much violence, else the
contacting and benefiting psyche misses the point of the
improved self-awareness entirely.
Violence, of course, is naught but circumstances alter­
ing at too swift a pace for the common mean of mankind
to observe reflectively what is happening as to its ulti­
mate significance on all given spectators.
Coming back to our bird analogy again, to make this
point clear: if the bird-world contained no butcher­
birds, the starling could exclaim that it had arrived at an
utter security. But bird conditions would likewise, and
thereby, have been precipitated, wherein the stimuli
would be lacking to make new baby starlings realize
541
that they are birds. This perfect extermination of danger
would likewise have exterminated the cause of instruc­
tion, wherefrom consciousness derives the greater esti­
mate of itself.
In the human world w e put it that the removal of
alarms, menacings, and jeopardies, offering society the
perfect security in consequence, results in moral and
civic stagnation. Human nature in a state of utter
security becomes pleasurerloving and ethically lax.
Virilities are abandoned and introvert practices com­
mence. A characterless, wishy-washy people is the
product .£»
So, as between utter security with its enervating effects
on body, mind, and spirit of a citizenry generally, and
an insecurity that accomplishes no constructive purpose
because happenings under it occur too swiftly or drasti­
cally for spiritual man to absorb the profits ethically,
there must be a mean or compromise. Or perhaps a
better w ay to express the thought is, that in a world
where Nature herself stipulates insecurity— that Life
may increase in knowledge of itself by successfully com ­
bating it— there should be some fabricated arrangement
serving as a brake on too violent projections of inse­
curity that effect not increased self-awareness but an
injury or demolishment.
This fabricated arrangement is official jurisdiction in
whatever form it operates.
It is social integration performing its own safeguards
542
by exercising at the dictation of Man, Party, or Chamber.
True, Man or Party or Chamber cannot legislate in the
matter of restraining the erupting volcano, but Man,
Party, or Chamber can function in so directing mortal
reaction from such stimuli that mass absorption of some
brand of profit results.
Let us at all times reflect that the Absorbed Profit is
life’s supreme achievement and excuse for operating.
A N wants security, w e concede. He wants
to preserve his status quo, because absorb­
ing new experiences which help to unfold
his consciousness of himself, always calls
for expenditure of effort— and expenditure
of effort means an expenditure of energy. Expenditure
of energy is always accompanied by a sense of loss, and
a sense of loss is forever painful— or at least uncom­
fortable. Man wants perpetual comfort, in other words,
or a state where energy-expenditure from his body,
mind, or spirit is reduced to a minimum or made wholly
unnecessary t?
Nature— or Nature’s Providence in such matters—de­
clares this wanted state to be abominable, in that it tends
back toward infoldment and spiritual degeneracy.
Therefore w e have conflict— that ancient quarrel be­
tween Man and God, between flesh and spirit.
And yet w e must preserve a rational sympathy toward
man’s side of it. There is m an’s mortal mechanism,
and its limitations, to be taken into account.
543
li
laaa
Man’s body, to be specific, is declared by physiological
chemists to be composed of eighty-six percent water.
It is, forsooth, a pliant and yet an inconvenient water-
sac. True, it stands alone when filled, and exercises a
seemingly self-motivated locomoting energy. But it is
a frail and precarious enhousement at best.
W hen we take into account the limitations of this water-
sac as man encounters them mortally, w e discern this
constant handicap making for the thing called Fear—
If man’s wilful spirit causes this water-sac to behave
too boisterously, it breaks. If, as, and when it breaks,
the psyche of Man can no longer apply itself strictly to
earthly pursuits. It is unseated, ejected, made to vacate
the very mechanism that renders absorption of earthly
profit apparent to its seat of consciousness.
Now this breakage and release may come from causa­
tions external as well as internal.
The very elements themselves may treat boisterously
with this water-sac, and man’s spirit must retire from the
profiting earthly arena.
Masses of other psyches, also enhoused in these water-
jackets may waylay and assault him, breaking the sac
and spilling forth the directing spirit.
Man comes into the water-sac to get certain experiences
causing him to realize that the confined and directing
intelligence is an entity of cosmic import. A s w e have
seen in a score of places, if the water-sac is in any w ay
injured, the whole earthly venture reduces to minus.
Man is therefore instinctively careful about what hap-
544
pens to his water-sac. It is his first concern that he shah
save it at all times harmless, and preserve it.
H e is willing to make terms, within certain bounds
called civic conditions, with whatever agencies may
demonstrate their abilities to aid him in preserving it.
4J So, up the ages, it has occurred to certain psyches—
older in cosmic sociology and personal experimentings
with their further unfolded talents— to say to them­
selves, whether for good or evil, “These fellow mortals
of mine, not possessing my advanced recognitions about
m yself, are ever fearful that evil designs or destructive
agencies will be engineered against their water-sacs.
They are willing to barter the efforts of the wills that are
inside themselves, to anyone, for any purpose that will
set up an earthly arrangement whereby great numbers
o f water-sacs align themselves into an organized force
to stave off punishment, injury, or malfeasance in any
form, wittingly or unwittingly executed upon them, by
those whom they thereby consider their ‘enem ies.’ If,
therefore, I can be the person or the influence that
cements one coterie of water-sacs into a protective
force and offers its liaison-services to individuals to pro­
tect them against their enemies who would infringe
upon their status of water-sac safety, I can dictate to
large numbers of living people when they shall go and
when they shall come, what they shall eat and what
they shall wear, how they shall house themselves, and
what shall be their occupations.”
It is a curious phenomenon of circumstance, that certain
545
so-called Master Spirits— master-spirits for evil as well
as good, remember— wish to assume this role of arbiter
over the experiences of other spirits clad in earthly
water-sacs tgt .t?
The life-tenure is peculiar in this, that certain “guiding”
entities do wish to impose themselves upon the earthly
life-careers of others, and impress their own person­
alities upon their comings and their goings.
It gives these highly-developed spirits a vicarious om­
nipotence to do this. They actually enjoy it— that they
are the controlling elements in the lives of their kind,
similarly enhoused in fleshly water-sacs.
They say unto themselves: “W e are thus partaking of
the attributes of gods before our tim e”— that is, before
they as Master Spirits are capable of projecting such vast
water-sac systems in their own rights, or rather, splitting,
severing, and dividing their own instruments of con­
sciousness so that they “make” literal men and wom en
of their own, or in multiplication of their own per­
sonalities in infinitesimal units, unto the end of time tp
tj They are multiplying themselves thus— at least in ef­
fect— before they have become grown into the state or
stage to do that thing “naturally.”
W hat truly is happening is, that they are exercising
themselves aforetime in a sort of cosmic practice, or
rehearsal, for the infinite roles they shall play as Fully
Developed and adult Gods, up the reaches of infinite
Space and Cosmic Operation.
They look about them on this earth-plane and observe
546
certain spirits less developed, less daring, less cou­
rageous, less able to fend for themselves cosmically,
than others. They say, “I shall be Master unto these
ahead of m y god-ordained province in the matter. I
shall make them to go and come. I shall open their
vaults of knowledge of this-and-that, and make them
to realize that they are what they are. A ll this shall
accrue to me as mentor and leader of these people-water-
sacs in their worldly exhibitions, one unto the other. I
will therefore organize this people, so many souls in
water-sacs to do this-and-that, so many identities of
spirit to operate here and operate there. I shall be the
supreme arbiter of their earthly destinies. I shall super­
vise their comings and their goings. They shall live and
breathe and exercise mortally by m y fiats. I shall, in
fact, ‘play god’ before it is a matter of enlargement for
me to do so. In doing this, I shall establish m y cosmic
importance. I shall exhibit the degree and talent of
mine age. I shall operate as a distinctive Controlling
Unit, and all men in cosmos shall acknowledge mine ad­
vance over them.”
This is the principle and the operating unit of introvert
cosmic declaration.
547
HERE is another unit, another exhibit,
another operative force, enhoused in the
same sort of water-sac temporarily, that
says: “My weaker, more ignorant,
shorter-lived, and less experienced breth­
ren in their fleshly water-sacs, have need of m y greater
adventurings in the earthly condition and the lessons
and disciplinings that I have learned therein. Mayhap by
returning among them and demonstrating what I have
acquired, because of mine own experiencings in advance
of them, 1 shall be able to lighten the load of their own
witnessings to themselves. I will therefore return to the
worldly water-sac condition and operate mundanely as
teacher and leader. I will do this, not because I espe­
cially want to declare m yself as this or that, but because
by so instructing others I shall give them of myself, I
shall impart to them something of mine increased cosmic
sovereignty as it has com e to me. I shall be able to
make their cosmic struggles lighter and perhaps receive
their everlasting gratitude that shall accrue to me in
cosmic friendships later on, that shall aid me materially
in the effacings of much of mine own unhallowed karmic
eventualities. I will therefore go back and ‘serve.’ I
will instruct others as to what the w ay on ahead is like.
I will make their pathways easier, and in so doing I will
gain compassionate consideration from m any still on
ahead of me who will think kindly of me for having
shown m yself so considerate.”
These are the true leaders of society, and they come back
548
into worldly water-sac conditions again and again, to
take upon themselves the veil of flesh and wear it for a
number of years— as w e say— constructively.
They are not living for themselves. They are striving
to bring about a deliberate constructive improvement of
all spirits thus clad in water-sac instrumentalities. But
there is a great void between these, and the ones who
vaingloriously declare themselves: “The world and all
that is therein, is mine own possession, and under mine
ow n sacrosanct dictatorship, if I but contrive to get peo­
ple to believe in mine ability to afford them either pro­
tection or enhancement in their water-sac personalities
whilst they are living out any passing mortal span or
sequence. I shall therefore order them into organiza­
tions, or phalanxes of social control, in which coagula­
tions I shall effect the armor that they want, but mine
own shall be interpreted by them as the A1 Sirat that ac­
crues to them in their hazardous predicament. And yet
I will be smart. I will not divulge that I am a being not
in the slightest manner different from themselves. I will
propose to them that one man shall com e here and do
this, and another man shall go there and do that. I will be
the brains, and the temperament, and direct the legs and
the sinews for them as a coagulated social body. I will
utilize this social body and order it into patterns of ac­
complishment that shall cause these water-sacs to do for
themselves what they might do for themselves anyway
but which I am clever enough in m y cosmic initiative to
compel them to do by the nature of their own fears as
549
to reprisals if they do not do. I will thus make m yself
a ‘m ighty’ person, as the earthly arena knows might.
I will improve on m yself after many generations, and
order and command greater and greater cohorts of ex­
ponents of myself. Thus will I approximate the god­
being whilst still confined in the earth-state and not en­
tirely removed from the same conditions that affect
these dupes which I weld to m y dominant aspirations.”
<J This is generally the line of self-persuasion of the
spiritual-operating dictator, the man or the personality
who leaves his impress in actionist-events upon the
course of history. H e has discovered that men want
security, but that they have not yet perceived such se­
curity to lie within their own aligned and coordinated
efforts, one in league with another. So he, the dictative
one, comes along and says: "I will show you how to
accomplish it. You surrender or submit your will and
earthly destiny to mine, and I will form you into an
impregnable force that by the strength of its numerical
coagulations shall collectively accomplish what the indi­
vidual wants personally.”
550
T EXACTLY such a point do w e have the
projection of the One Man Authority, the
earthly or the worldly dictator. <| This
dictator truly is exhibiting a curious con­
dition or assembly of factors, within him­
self. He is saying, “I perceive what is the true nature
and essence of my ultimate godhood. I shall project
and direct billions of these human units in mine ultimate
god-state. If I am to do this ultimately, and of mine own
spiritually-creative essence, I might as well achieve to
it in practice in the passing earthly circumstance. I have
only to deceive these water-sac spirits, to tell them that
they are in grave danger from this-and-that, to get them
to align and operate themselves after m y desires. I can­
not say w hy I should possess such desires. They accrue
to me and I indulge them. I find a certain morbid pleas­
ure in thus being the controlling factor in the mortal
activities of such fellow units. It seems to give m e a
laudable value to myself, as against the billions and tril­
lions of unidentified minions in All Cosmos. It makes
me Stand Out. It impresses me unto m yself, as myself.
I am the controlling watchword and moral sentinel of
an epoch. I am M yself Incarnate, operating through
wilful direction of others and getting mine acclaim in
terms of their concentrated accomplishments. I have
but to form these lesser-developed and more timid souls
into phalanxes and regiments, and force them into obedi­
ence to m y whimsical commands, and all is well with
me in m y appreciations of m yself as a spirit emerging
551
into a celestial potentate— of w hose glory I have as yet
small conception excepting as I try to typify it at present
in mine authoritative position.”
These thoughts, weighings, considerings, and conclud-
ings, are— forsooth— the genesis of that personage that
man on earth exclaims upon as a Dictator.
It is such a perspicacious soul, so operating, so reason­
ing, so deploying, that assumes charge of millions of
water-sac spirits through what is termed Organization,
and lifts himself to top-lofty worldly em inence and ag­
grandizement isjs
It is this type of perspicacious spirit, thus operating,
that brings about the essence of the first state w e have
considered as fundamental governm ent: The one brain
taking the place of m any brains and making of one per­
sonality the embodiment of the social unit.
W e do not need to go further than this to find the true
cosmical explanation for the phenom enon of Stalinism.
Hitlerism is different, in that Hitler sincerely seeks to
serve his national unit as a great public benefactor.
Stalin, as a water-sac personality, seeks to serve and en­
hance him self and none other.
552
ROM time immemorial this same thing has
happened. Men of slightly greater cosmic
functioning, who have dared more and
learned the value of cosmic audacity, have
come back into water-sac confines to
’‘lead” or “direct” their fellowman.
W hat they truly have essayed to accomplish is this:
It has come home to them that spirits in water-sacs are
more fearful of losing their earthly or fleshly coverings
than any other calamity that can befall them. So they
have— and now do, in a manner— capitalized upon that
fear by showing such spirits how they can get together
as a group or a nation and put up concentrated resistance
to a destroying force, that is more successful in effect or
ultimate design than any one of them so acting as the
lone individual i f A*
For this direction, or suggestion as to defense-action,
these older cosmic spirits take special compensation.
They say, “I will show you how to do this if you will ac­
claim me, and memorialize me, and make me of greater
concern in your memory-books than those who have
merely lived and functioned without attempting to
render you any such service in social organization.”
And water-sac people, willy-nilly, have said: “Here is
one who exhibits the idealism w e have wanted to express
as superior god. Let us therefore do him honor. Let us
raise his name among us. H e has pointed us the way
to an apparent Security. W e shall not lose our water-
sacs and thus be unable to function on earth, if w e but
553
follow his dictations.” A ll o f it is a bargain, a transfer,
a barter o f this item for that item , o f that v a lu e for th is
value, o f protection for adulation, o f self-p reservation
for the aspects o f a fairly w ell defined m oral serfd om .
O f such w ere the first d yn asties o f'th e m aterial or p o ­
litical w orld contrived.
M an w anted security. T h e Sm all Individual rose u p
and said, “ I w ill sh ow you h o w to get it. I w ill n ot
furnish it m yself, b ecau se— considered from th e w ater-
sac standpoint— I am but a spirit clad in a flesh ly
veil like yourselves. B ut m y greater cosm ic ex p erien ce
w ill direct you into such social patterns that th e pro­
tection shall accrue to y o u , and for this direction y o u
m ust adulate m e as being a god, b efore m y tim e.”
M an says, “W e w an t the p rotection ab ove all else. G et
you to the business and y o u shall h ave our h o m a g e.” S o
the self-styled leader gathers about h im self o n e or tw o
or three personalities w h o are su sceptib le to his sk ill in
presenting ethical argum ents. T h ese in turn p ersuade
tw o or four or six that it w ou ld be better for th em to
follow the leader than to try to exp erim en t and ex p lo re
for th em selves— and perchance lose their o w n w ater-
sacs in the daring. T h ese in turn p ass th e w ord to fou r
and eight and tw elve. T h e first m an ’s in flu en ce co m ­
pounds in the exact ratio that th e m yth about h im grow s.
V ery soon he is all m yth— or rather, h e is all tradition.
q H e is able to sw ay a thousand, ten th ou san d , ten m il­
lion, from the sheer fact that an idealism has b een pro-
554
jected concerning him, and m en’s reading into him all
that they recognize as being so deficient in themselves.
NE-MAN rule first came about by one man’s
possessing a brain that enabled him to see
that individual man multiplied his own
powers for defense and security by acting
in concert with his fellows, and getting his
fellows to act in concert with himself. W e might think
that this gregarious trait would perform of itself, but
strange to narrate, it does not. Someone must act as an
A gent for Coagulation.
Men herd together for protection only when someone
preaches to them that it is to their advantage to do so.
Individual men are fierce individualists. They resent
begging help from their fellows in general. They wait
for someone who takes the lead, sponsors a movement,
offers the pattern to which they can conform, something
they can “join,” before they will adhere together and
do the things collectively that they can’t do individually.
€fl This, of course, offers the opportunity for the organ­
izing brain to exhibit itself, to perform to its own seem ­
ing self-aggrandizement, to say to mankind: “You fol­
low m y lead and I will get you what you cannot get
yourself” ip ip
This organizing brain says the same thing to the next
man, and the next. It pays other men to sally forth and
make the offer to hundreds, to thousands, to millions.
Hapless individuals acquiesce because they themselves
555
w ill not thereby be penalized in case error develops in
the mass performance.
The organizing brain simply projects a pattern for other
brains to adhere to. The pattern is the elongated
shadow of his ow n personality, in that he conceived it
and proposed it out of his more mature experimenting.
Conversely, those who conform to the pattern, translate
the pattern itself into terms of the one w ho has pro­
jected it 3a* 3a*
Soon millions are in m ovem ent toward a given objective
or in unison for a common execution. A nd because
the m ovem ent has been projected from the one brain, so
those who endorse the m ovem ent by their presences in
it, find themselves instinctively obeying the continuing
directions of the one brain.
One man thereby does the thinking for ten millions. If
he makes an error, of course ten millions pay his penalty.
If he be brilliantly successful, ten millions profit— with
no especial credit to them selves that they have done so.
W e are considering now the man who gradually
makes himself tyrant, in the original meaning of the
term. This man, being very human himself, having pro­
jected the social pattern to which ten thousand or ten
million can conform, finds that he has created an or­
ganism to which he is the slave.
Its demands upon him are more than flesh and blood can
stand 3a* 3a*
H e must labor early and late to furnish the executive
directions for the m ovem ents of such a horde. All that
556
the horde performs for weal or woe, is laid at his per­
sonal door. He finds after a time that whereas he
originally cast a pattern for human beings to conform
to, the said human beings have translated that pattern
into terms of himself.
H e is the pattern, and the pattern in his own mortal per­
sonality. No distinctions are allowed. One is hope­
lessly enmeshed with the other. His own whims and
caprices function as part of the system.
Gradually such a man loses even a perspective upon
himself and his own mortal limitations. If his body
misbehaves and suddenly constricts in ache, the ten
million votaries feel the effects of the spasm.
W e say his “word becomes law.” . . .
W e do not mean that, of course. W e mean that Man
and Pattern have become hopelessly confused. A s he
has a caprice for this or that, so the pattern that he
epitomizes has a caprice to become this or that.
It suddenly comes home to such an organizer that he is
a performer in human lives. The pattern of the social
or political organization is so inextricably interwoven
with himself that his least whim or mood is reflected in
its functionings.
The inertia of the M ovement controls him as a serf, and
in that he perceives it, he sets a false estimate upon him­
self. Really he is contemptuous of these people who
need some sort of pattern to conform to, to get them this
or that Jfcgr
Knowing his own limitations, he is contemptuous of
557
those w ho are not aware that such private limitations
exist and accept the pattern and the man as being the
one item ts*
Finally the day arrives when he wants surcease, free­
dom from responsibility, the chance to live and enjoy
as the normal human creature inclosed in a water-sac.
H e resents his ow n serfdom to the Frankenstein which
he has projected. H e says in an unguarded m om ent of
pique: “Take that man out and shoot him! H e annoys
me by his yam m erings.”
The offending one is taken out and executed.
Still, the first can do no wrong, for he is the Pattern.
Thereat it becom es disclosed to such a one that ob­
struction to his m oods can be obliterated and erased by
the destroying of the water-sacs of the very spirits that
have elevated him to his notorious position by their
willingness to acquiesce to his pattern-proposals and
thus obtain security.
Such a pattern-maker is therein spiraling off into the
m ost criminal type of irresponsibilities. W hat he wants
is surcease from the demands of his position on his
psyche, but he does not translate it so. H e translates
his pique at the insufferable strictures of his position, as
revolutionary m ovem ents designed to work havoc in the
pattern-systems which he has provided. H e orders ten
thousand slaughtered.
Those ten thousand no longer exist to vex him by their
irascibilities. H e sees that it is a good w ay to lessen his
vexations as a com m on man, enhoused in an aggravating
558
water-sac. So to humor the spirit that is annoyed by
such vexations, because it has not yet attained to its
adult Godhood by expansion, ten thousand times ten
thousand are ordered to be marked out and their water-
sacs slit open. He is destroying the form and sub­
stance of the pattern that he has willed.
Still he does not see it, or rather, he is indifferent to it.
€][ He has built up a tradition about himself, and about
the pattern which he epitomizes. Inwardly he resents
its cankering usurpations on his humanized caprices.
Having ordered one man killed, and discovered that it
is possible to slay without retributions, he orders ten
thousand “liquidated.” He has forgotten the individu­
alistic purpose of human life in the water-sac status.
Resenting his serfdom to the pattern that he has cast, he
seeks escape and freedom by irresponsible destruction.
He has become a Governing Monstrosity.
Really, there is little truly monstrous about him.
The crime that he was guilty of, to begin with, was the
crime of usurpation of God powers before he was cos-
mically matured to exercise them.
He got into the mess by offering to do for the individual
man what the individual man should have tried to con­
summate for himself.
He said to the individual man in the beginning: “You
submit yourself to my will, as contained in my Pattern
that promises you the security you desire, and I will
protect you, in that I ■mil arrange with ten thousand
other men to swarm to your assistance in emergency and
559
compound— or at least multiply— your strength of re­
sistance ten thousand tim es.”
If he had withdrawn from the situation w hen he had
honestly furnished men the Pattern, if he had refused to
let the Pattern becom e interwoven with his own psyche-
personality, he would have instigated a system which
would truly have been of profit in the world-scene, and
been hailed as deathless benefactor.
If he had said to man: “I adjure you to do thus-and-
such which I have reasoned out as aiding you in your
individual predicament,” and shown man how to thus
behave in emergency for himself, he would have escaped
the demands of the system upon himself as a personality.
But vanity would not permit him, in the beginning of
the business, to offer the pattern sim ply and then step
aside and let men conform to it, practice it, and profit
from it
It inflated his ego to have men accredit him as a supra-
individual, to them selves, because he had supplied the
Design for Security that lay in simple assembly of other
human units w hen a given danger threatened.
He was not actually regarding the welfare of his fellow-
man in the execution of it all.
H e was regarding the earthly career of himself.
His viewpoint was intrinsically ego-centric.
H e paid the penalty of such egocentricity, without ac­
tually recognizing— or at least admitting at the time—
that it was egocentricity, by selling himself to his sub­
sequent role as god of his own machine.
560
Few there are who can stand such a test, and success­
fully pass it. The average individual, with an organiz­
ing brain, simply accredits that he must be smarter than
all men because he has been adept in projecting social
patterns, and thereupon credits himself with all other
supernormal qualities.
He runs amuck in lost proportions.
H e is a slave to customs which he has instigated himself,
and which he must thereafter serve or receive history’s
odium. A lw ays he is thinking of self, self, self! Now
let us consider the ruck of it from man’s standpoint:
that is, the standpoint of the follower and not of the
followed i y i:*
561
TH E THIRTY-SIXTH DISCUSSION
N A T I O N S - I N - L A W
THE THIRTY-SIXTH DISCUSSION
T is slipshod pronouncement to
declare that governmental or­
ganization in its first forms on
this planet took aspects of one-
man rule, and that any depart­
ures from the kingly office—
that goes so remotely into an­
tiquity — therefore constitutes
Progress. W e have no reliable
an argument that the first forms
of government were kingly governments. True, king­
ly forms of government were the first forms of govern­
ment of which w e have historical knowledge— or rather,
when history first began to be reliably recorded, the
forms of government then in vogue were generally the
kingly forms, and with a few eccentric exceptions they
continued to be the prevailing forms up to the signing
of Magna Carta and the instigation of the English par­
liament. The eccentric exceptions, of course, were the
democratic Grecian city-states and the rule of the Ro­
man Senate. Because history, as w e know it, opens the
story of human affairs with accounts of these kingly
565
basis on which to build
forms, by no means proves that the elevation of kings
in those remote days was synonym ous with the appear­
ance of worldly governments. It simply indicates that
history as w e know it is deficient in details of human
civic origins.
History as w e know it today, picks up the first threads
of racial and national affairs among Mediterranean peo­
ples with Egyptian and Babylonian dynasties already
ensconced in power and developed to a complicated
status of monarchal procedure. Such dynasties and pro­
cedures by no means step into existence fully grown,
like Minerva from the head of Jove. They are ever the
results of long sequences of social and political experi­
ments. They give validity to the conclusion that peo­
ples supporting monarchal systems have come to do so
because the nature of their own vicissitudes as racials
has tended to convince them that such systems serve
them with a maximum of advantages and a minimum of
disadvantages in the matter of getting the public busi­
ness transacted and making a permanence of political
stability
I submit that despite all the recognized abuses of king­
craft, the monarchal system did hold something of great­
er enhancement to the racials supporting it than did the
eccentric forms I have mentioned, else monarchal sys­
tems would not have been adhered to and returned to
time and time again with such significant regularity.
Such endorsements of a certain system, well-nigh uni­
versal in practice, do not "just happen.”
566
Moreover, w e are given no license to dismiss the phe­
nomenon with the cynical statement that kingcraft had
its enduring basis in overweening ambition.
Ambition may have inspired the individual to climb into
the kingship but the inception of the system as a system
must have derived from more elemental urgings, or I
might say, cognitions.
Mankind, from its earliest days, must have gone around
the Jurisdictional Cycle many times. Each time, how­
ever, w e note that the arc representing kingcraft in that
cycle occupied the longer segment, before the other two
forms were endorsed or embraced— only to prove short
and experimental and give w ay to kingcraft again.
N ow before w e go any further, what do w e mean by the
Jurisdictional Cycle? W e shall meet the term again and
again in the closing chapters of this work, and w e shall
want to understand precisely what it covers.
Y the Jurisdictional Cycle, w e mean this:
the correlated processes of political and
governmental procedure, each one grow­
ing out of the other and by virtue of which
the final form of government so arrived
at, blends back into the form which started— and thus
completes— the cycle.
To be specific, w e have seen that there are just three
forms of rulership within governmental function: The
One-Man Dictatorship, the Party Directorship, and the
Chamber Representation of the Citizen Masses. These,
567
each in a score of phases, comprise all the political juris­
diction exercised over racials or nationals in the earthly
arena
It is m y contention— and I will presently expound it—
that such jurisdiction proceeds in cycles. The One-Man
Dictatorship produces the Party Directorship, the Party
Directorship produces the Chamber Representation, and
when the Chamber Representation has run its course
and dissipated the virility that created it, it automatically
forces the One-Man Dictatorship anew.
A ll of it may be a chasing of the political devil around
the stump, but in the process of the chasing, the masses
of earthly-residing souls do get governed— after a fash­
ion. A t least they assume that they are being governed;
predatory groups are held within tolerable bounds, and
man gets his private pursuits accomplished in any given
life ±jr ±*
In the larger sense, however, w e discern a different thing
in process.
The thing that the unlearned man chooses to label Prog­
ress in these matters, may not be progress at all. Going
around a cycle can never be progress. Progress, if such
a thing exists, consists in climbing the spiral of the cycles
in the enhancements of the personally intensified or un­
folded consciousness.
Thus it becomes an absurdity to declare that a political
state tacitly progresses. To achieve progress, the unit
so signified must be in process of moving from one point
or set of conditions, to another point or set of conditions,
568
and the difference in standards as between the two must
be clearly defined and the point or set of conditions to­
ward which the unit m oves, shown to contain improve­
ments. But even the identification of such “improve­
m ents” requires a standard by which to judge them as
being improvements, and they can scarcely be recog­
nized as such until the point of the progression— or the
better conditions aspired to—has been reached. Before
such point has been reached, spiritually speaking, it is
unknowable. It is only knowable by arriving at it and
reacting sentiently to its features. So progress can only
be judged by considering it in retrospect; and before
such retrospect is possible, progress cannot be recog­
nized. Moreover, who is there to set up the abstract
and arbitrary standard by which the essence of progres­
sion is judged?
To say: “w e are progressing,” therefore, is to speak a
presumption
A political state, by such line of reasoning, cannot shift
its position. It is not a unit, but a condition of juris­
diction. The minute it ceases to be one condition of
jurisdiction and becomes another, it ceases to exist.
To digress a moment, for purposes of illustration, con­
sider the United States. In the beginning, this nation
was a series of monarchal provinces. Subsequent to the
war of the Revolution, it became a Constitutional Re­
public. The nation had not made progress. It had sim­
ply ceased being one thing— a series of monarchal prov­
inces— and become another, a Constitutional Republic.
569
W ith the advent of the Communistic-Hebraic locust
swarm from Europe and A sia in the aftermath of the
World War, and the theft of the Democratic Party by
the Rooseveltian New-Dealers, it ceased being a Con­
stitutional Republic and became a Constitutional Dicta­
torship, camouflaged by the term Democracy. That is,
it became a Dictatorship under which the dictator em ­
ployed the constitutional forms of political machinery to
do his dictating successfully. Examined dispassionate­
ly, what truly happened was a change from the Chamber
of Deputies jurisdiction to the Party-Directorship juris­
diction by malice aforethought and deliberate maneuver,
instead of by cycle pattern in the embracement of result
proceeding from cause. I shall continue this exposition
in a subsequent discussion.
In none of these changes was it the United States that
progressed or degenerated. The nation that has been
the United States from the filling up of the Atlantic sea­
board with colonists, to the overrunning of this new
Land of Canaan by the world’s predatory Israelites, has
continued to be the same nation, territorially, sociologic­
ally, and economically.
Political forms give w ay to one another, but progression
of any variety is strictly confined to the unfoldments of
sentient spirit.
570
OW then, this seems to be the natural order
of m ovem ent in the jurisdictional cycle,
when the movement is not one of force
and strategy as in the constitutional usur­
pations of the Jewish New Dealers, and
for quite other purposes than the political: Starting for
the sake of convenience with the One-Man Dictatorship,
w e observe— as set forth in our last discussion— that the
one-man ruler cannot endure temperamentally beneath
the burdens or complications of his function. He in­
dulges in excesses of irresponsibility on the one hand,
while on the other it cannot be denied that he projects
a legend about himself that is more enduring than his
flesh and blood. Between excesses in moral laxity or
irresponsibilities, and sacrosanct tradition birthed by his
accomplishments, his function hangs suspended like Mo­
hammed’s Coffin.
In order to sustain his position, however, and keep right
and title to that function by some sort of political ex­
pediency, such a dignitary must perforce bring into ex-
istance a group of satellites who are, in their individual­
ized offices, the elongated manifestation of himself.
Thus is the Party born.
It may be, under the monarchal system, a Court. It may
be, under the oligarchic system, a kommissariat. W hich­
ever it is, by the nature of its individualized composition
it is bound to have a longevity which the dictator who
brought it into being does not. All men of similar
political beliefs do not die at the same moment. Tradi-
571
tions of a personality, capitalized upon by bodies of
surviving satellies to enhance their own positions above
an acquiescent or ignorant populace, may endure with
directional vitality or political momentum, over a num­
ber of generations.
But the Party always proceeds to actuality from some
evidence of limitation in the first Dictator-Personage ip
ff Parties, however, have this disadvantage, that they
are not individualized in the sense of spiritual integrity,
as leader-personalities may have spiritual individualities.
€J There may be as many Parties as there may be tradi­
tions of physically perished personalities to perpetuate.
Naturally these are bound, over periods of time, to
clash with each other. Thus groups of individuals as­
cend to directorships as they are successful in winning
the masses to support them, but the groups that have
lost the endorsement of the masses, by no means go
from existence as integrations of individuals upholding
a chosen tradition. They continue in existence as irri­
tants or purifiers of the Party that for the time being has
secured such popular endorsement.
The original one-man rule w on the support of the
masses and held it for some outstanding accomplish­
ment or promise to furnish social or military security.
Dividing his burdens, he created from his first satellites
the Party that seeks to preserve the principles that en­
sconced him in power, or the traditions which accumu­
lated through a successful wielding of that power. This
Party, being composed of very mortal and human men,
572
each admittedly without the original leader’s attributes,
breeds com petition; and out of this competition, in the
absence of strongly individualized leadership, comes one
Party paramount in popular acclaim.
Groups of personalities— good, bad, and indifferent—
generous, altruistic, and privately selfish— knit together
by tradition of some sort, assume to direct the populace
in political, social, and economic procedure according to
a set of vaguely recognized and conceded standards.
But the Jurisdictional Cycle is moving onward.
Just as the original one-man dictator found his burdens
obnoxious and thus created the Party to relieve him,
so the Party in turn ultimately shows signs of internal
confusion and disintegration by the very nature of its
highly individualized composition, and forces relief from
such confusion outside of itself, in turn.
The public says to itself: “The Party is making its
internal quarrelings and disregarded standards an an­
noyance to us, the masses of the people. After all, we
should have something to say about how w e shall be
ruled, and by what dignitaries and fiats. Let us, there­
fore, send agents of our choosing, to deal with the Party
and make its members harken to reason or get back on
the main track of the Principles originally birthing it.
Having the major interests at stake in the civic situation,
our opinions as to this or that are entitled to attention.’’
C| So came the plebeian Party to ancient Rome— in
juxtaposition to the decadent Senatorial party that fol­
lowed in the wake of the Roman tyrants. So came the
573
Commoners’ party to the British Isles, in juxtaposition
to the king’s party which was personified as the House
of Lords and which perpetuated the traditions of the
English kingship while at the same time acting as
baronial curb upon that kingship in its excesses.
Still the Jurisdictional Cycle moves onward, and whether
it be Plebeian Party, Commoners’ Party or Popular
Front, the time unerringly arrives when the spiritually
unfolding consciousness of the populace eventually de­
clares: “W hy do w e need to tolerate, or deal with, these
personal exploiters of a tradition? W hy should not our
agents do the ruling and become supreme potentates as
a caste, subject at all times to our mass-control?”
Thus comes humanity in any complicating social state,
to the Chamber of Deputies form of government.
One-man dictatorship evolves Party Directorship. Party
Directorship, out of its inevitable malformations,
evolves the Chamber of Agents.
“A ha!” cries the Public. “A t last the People have per­
fected the Ideal Form of G overnm ent!”
574
UT have they?
Let us see what operates in practice.
The Chamber of Deputies— or duly
elected agents of the People to pursue cer­
tain approved forms of governing— starts
off with conscientious intentions to serve faithfully els
agents, and conserve the public confidence that has thus
elevated them to their new-found and unmerited powers
in political position.
The masses of the citizens, on the other hand, assume
that all further distress as to government has been laid,
and childishly start back to private pursuits. In the
exact ratio that those private pursuits are profitable,
they produce personally-owned wealth that makes the
stronger god of Property. This stronger god of Prop­
erty commands his daily homage. The populace, be­
coming generally affluent, knows that an instant’s re­
laxation in the worship of this new god means swift and
terrible retribution in the form of economic ruin. The
struggle for economic survival being what it is, the God
of Property becomes a more jealous potentate than the
Hebrew Jehovah.
Presently the Deputy-Agents discover a curious in­
difference to their conscientious functions, growing in
the minds of those who elevated them.
“W e care little what you do,” is the admitted confession,
“so long as you do not infringe upon our worship of
Property, or instigate conditions where our possessions
are not our gods.”
575
The Deputy-Agents say: “If that’s all the public cares
for our scruples, why should not we too, being men with
human problems and dependents, take care that our
offices be made to profit us, so that we too may possess
properties and worship the common deity?”
Thereat come private agents to the public Deputy-
Agents. They say: “All you need do is vote for a
certain measure, which is not the general public’s busi­
ness at all, and you will receive little black boxes through
your backdoors on dark midnights, in which you will
find many golden coins which you may keep.”
The bedeviled legislator is shocked at first. Then he
probes a bit and discovers scores of his brother deputies
having the aforesaid little black boxes handed in at their
backdoors on periodic midnights.
“If the public doesn’t give a rap,” says he finally, “why
need I be so squeamish?”
So he proceeds not to be squeamish.
Presently a thousand private interests are buying a
thousand privileges from subverted agent-deputies.
Public office becomes a miasma of corruption. The
whole public welfare starts to degenerate.
Whereupon, rapacious and predatory groups that exist
in every state, or enemies of the republic abroad, say
among themselves: “W e have corrupted the public
servants till their nation is wide open for us to permeate
and seize. W e can move in and loot every man’s prop­
erty and cache of personal wealth, seeing the people
have no buffers against us or protectors to denounce us.
576
So let us get to the pillage at once” iff iff iff
The Chamber of Deputies, befouled with corruption, is
in no position to contest such seizure without the dis­
astrous exposure of individuals composing it. The whole
country rocks. People despair. The economic structure
crashes iff iff
Then with w olves running wild through the sheepflock
of defenseless citizens, the deputy-agents powerless in
the toils of their own defections, some one indignant
citizen raises up his head and his hand and cries in a
ringing tocsin: “STO P!”
Advancing on this signal down the center-aisle of the
nation, this Indignant Citizen mounts the rostrum and
says: “This Chamber has failed us. It has sold us,
body and soul, to our enemies. A s many of you as
care to do so, may follow me. For I and a few of my
friends thinking similarly, propose to shovel the whole
wickedness out!”
Turmoil follows— naturally. Perhaps a war is fought.
But from such insurrection arises the Strong Leader
afresh. And because he has saved the People from uni­
versal corruption, he is garlanded with the 'right to
dictate to them what the reconstruction shall consist of.
The Constitutional Prerogative has given w ay to the
One-Man Dictatorship again. Forthwith there is every
prospect that when the burden of his position has be­
come too great for human flesh and blood to bear, his
Party Directorship will succeed him.
There is progress in none of it.
577
There is only the Jurisdictional Cycle, I say, constantly
recurring out of positive and reckonable conditions.
So w e should know this phenomenon for what it is, and
no matter under what phase of the Cycle w e may cur­
rently be living, look rather for the sociological benefits
which it transmits to our unfolding spirits.
It is our unfolding spirits that do the progressing, and
the standard of such progress is the celestial moral con­
cept, carrying us straight into the highest Esoterics.
578
TH E THIRTY-SEVENTH DISCUSSION
N A T I O N S - IN - L A W
* ** TH E THIRTY-SEVENTH d i s c u s s i o n
HE STORY of one-man rule is
fascinating. It enthralls the
average individual because the
average individual, being only
a partially-developed spirit— or
rather, a partly unfolded spirit
— reads into the single direct­
ing personality the exercise of
most of those not-yet-unfolded
talents which the average individual has not yet brought
into play within his personally-exercised arena of ac­
tivity. Adulation, homage, even worship, is forever
based upon the average individual’s inferiority complex.
H e desires to perform that which he beholds the adulated
or worshiped personality performing. He wants to
reach out, to stride ahead, and manifest himself after the
pattern of the attained-to talents in the entity that has
thus made him envious. There is nothing base in such
aspirations. It is the system which H oly Spirit has in­
stilled throughout all the octaves of human conscious­
ness by which galvanism to unfold is motivated. So-
called growth is always prompted by beholding a more
581
unfolded spirit demonstrate his self-discoveries, and thus
realizing the wish-desire to be like him.
When we speak of an average individual, we mean
of course an individual who complies with the common
mean of unfoldment that most distinguishes the octave
of consciousness in which one finds himself performing.
No group, however, is permitted to be a group, without
having allocated to it, its mentor. Groups, in fact, are
naught else than coagulations of satellites about a
mentor. And a mentor in turn is naught but a spirit
more unfolded in consciousness, and the attributes in
consciousness, than those who for this self-profit have
swarmed about it.
Following this line of exposition, we discover it to be
uniformly true that one-man rule— in its original ex­
hibit— is merely the display of more unfolded talents on
the part of some soul who has made the vital discovery
that he is in truth a Baby God. These talents, epito­
mized, advance for our consideration the one composium
that there is naught to fear in all the universe but the
single Great Law of Retribution— as ye sow, so also
shall ye reap.
This group mentor, we say, is acquiescent to accepting
responsibility. It makes small difference whether he
be selectman of a village, governor of a state, president
of a confederation of states, autocrat, king, or despot.
He has come into the .realization, consciously or other­
wise, that by functioning as the deciding and ordering
brain for vast masses of men he can^extend his own
582
power physically, economcially, or materially; yet it is
also true that in the extension of such power he coaxes
or stimulates the powers in those individuals composing
his satellite-group to unfold themselves. Be that as it
may, the satellites do read into his exercisings the per­
formances of those talents or attributes which they have
not yet recognized as existing in a dormant state within
themselves. They adulate, not him, but their own de­
sires to unfold to the extent to which he has unfolded.
They say, commonly, that they are willing to follow
such a leader because he “shows them the w ay.” . . .
He does not really show them the way. H e really demon­
strates the extent of his prior discoveries that naught
exists in Cosmos to fear excepting the self-suffered re­
sults of one’s own acts when they ignore the basic con-
sciousness-unfoldment of the satellites.
This is a realization to which all come ultimately, and as
they come to it, they qualify as mentors to hordes of
lesser unfolded Baby Gods in the actual pathway of
expansion A*
583
E M UST remember this basis of all adula­
tion, and consequently all Foliowship—
and therefore all worship— as w e read and
digest the remaining pages of this work.
<J The more unfolded, and/or self-discov­
ered soul “comes back” as w e put it, to hold up before
those not so unfolded the possibilities in consciousness-
expansion. His very self-realizations equip him to point
the pathway of similar expansions to those who there­
fore cluster about him for counsel. H e discharges his
debt to those who have hitherto helped him in his own
consciousness-unfoldments, in similar and prior pro­
cedures, by serving those who are yet in their divine
infancy tz*
This process in performance is the thing which purblind
mankind commonly calls the Structure of Society
flf There is strictly, of course, no such thing as any
Structure of Society. There is only attainment in de-
gree-unfoldment of consciousness, and envy of such
attainment, one acting and reacting upon the other and
vaguely performing a sort of discipline or self-desired
Pattern throughout and among all those entities con­
tributing to the localized cosmic drama that is being
played. The Leader, therefore, is only the more daring
adventurer in self-discovery of the potentialities of his
own consciousness— and when I refer to leader here, I
do not mean the appointed leader; I mean the leader
who rises to leadership strictly through the exercise of
organizational talent.
584
A ll others are agents for leadership, though they are not
always thus recognized.
T IS extremely doubtful whether the first
indications of such internally-inspired dis­
cipline upon this planet took the form of
the individual discoverer’s thus perform­
ing as the solitaire supervisor of his
satellites, and emulation-galvanizer of his own unfold-
ments in others. Calling for the moment on the most
profound esoteric origins to aid in clarifying this point,
it seems to have been a fact that “in the beginning”—
and for that matter, ever since— these more unfolded
mentors have been performers of common attainments
in an octave that gave them, from their common stand­
ing, the aspects of a Clan.
I refer in this to a clan composed of mentors who simply
were members of a higher order of unfolded conscious­
ness and appreciations of their self-realized godhood.
<][ This clan business is, naturally, bedeviling to those of
us who confine our thinking-explorations strictly to the
material essences. W e are puzzled as to how, or
wherein, it started, what coagulated its members, w hy
they should have become conscious of the possibilities
or potentialities in retrograding into the lesser-developed
or unfolded orders, and how contact or influence was
fundamentally negotiated. However, such are esoteric
considerations and slightly outside the encompassments
of this work.
585
W e have the evidence of our observations to confirm
that somehow or other the practice came to be tacit and
general. More unfolded agents found ways to slip back
and manifest among those less unfolded. And the exer­
cise of such unfoldments— that is, attributes in demon­
stration— empowered them with authorities whose ef­
fects on their own psyches could not have been wholly
displeasing to them, else they would not have acquiesced
to the system and made it recurrent. It seems to be a
fundamental of Cosmos that no volatile spirit performs
an act that causes it distress or loss. Even in material
self-losing disciplines there is profit— which is w hy they
are entered upon in otherwise puzzling repetitions.
Som ehow or other, mentor spirits discovered gains to
their own psyches in degrading themselves and minister­
ing to those who extolled them as mentors due to their
own lack of unfoldments to the moment. W e do not
need to pursue this line of exploration too far. It is
self-evident as to truth, in the conditions of human life
all about us.
Yet these higher-unfolded spirits took common counsel
among themselves as to self-recognitions of their more
advanced conditions, and the clan—or lodge— of men­
tors was created. Of themselves they doubtless com­
prised the degree-attainments in consciousness distin­
guishing— if not identifying— an octave.
In the beginning, therefore, w e find them acting more
or less in concert in their mentoring adventures among
the more spiritually inhibited, and so-called Priesthoods
586
were first recognized. Now a word about such Priest­
hoods A*
TRICTLY speaking, a priest is merely a
spirit that “knows more” A* Aj*
if W e get the word Priest from the old
Anglo-Saxon “proest”— a derivative of
Latin presbyter— meaning Elder, or Older
in Knowledge. Here again, of course, w e have the
mentor or more-unfolded-soul idea, expressed in its ap­
plication to the esoteric or religious activity.
Priests originally were those who were acknowledged as
“knowing more” or “being elders in knowledge” of the
laws and processes maintaining in the higher octaves of
unfolded consciousness. They were those who had
“retrograded” into octaves they had already experi­
enced and profited-from, in order to aid the unfoldments
of those more ignorant or inhibited, leaving aside for the
moment the item of their motivations or compensations
for so doing.
These priestly mentors over many groups, or coagula­
tions of groups, when considered as performers of an
advanced octave, became known as a hierarchy. But
here is the important point—
W hen the members of such a hierarchy first began
demonstrating in this so-called physical or earthly octave,
they really did know more than those whom they had
essayed to mentor.
There were no forms or rituals about their performance.
587
Forms and rituals are ever the outward, dramatic,
spectacular means adopted when a given clan of would-
be mentors have lost or have not attained to their ac­
credited powers or knowledge and therefore substitute
wordy or dramatic hocus-pocus to take its place and re­
tain an unhallowed hold upon groups of gullible satellites
without the discernment to know the real thing from the
spurious legerdemain.
The original priesthood must have comprised an octave
of baby gods who actually did know more and were
equipped with the unfoldments to demonstrate it on any
legitimate occasion. And there must have been a suffi­
cient number of them to supply one of such priestly
mentors for each group— or such numbers or combina­
tions of numbers as their capabilities or attributes were
capable of servicing.
If w e want to accept the hypothesis that Life in the hu­
man form came to this planet in a great migration from
some other planetary system, w e must accredit that one
guiding personality could not have been able to service
all the myriads of inhibited souls who thus swarmed
here. They would, each one, be limited as to function
by the circumscriptions of the demands of the satellites
upon their time and attention.
This in itself would indicate that myriads of souls would
necessitate groups of mentors in numbers. These groups
of mentors, being of similar cosmic unfoldments, would
be attracted into one another’s company in obedience
to the great cosmic law that Like always attracts Like.
588
tj Thus, in the beginning, it seems to have been a fact
that a great Cosmic Dynasty did exist, from which this
hierarchy of elders-who-knew were— in the earthly sense
-—recruited. And, further borrowing from Esoterics for
the moment, it seems to be certain that these first rulers
among Those W ho Knew by reason of being Older, ap­
plied their counsel-talents to all phases and aspects of
consciousness functioning on this terrestrial allocation.
<][ That is to say, they not only counseled— and there­
fore directed— in spiritual matters, but in matters of
worldly residence concerned with the social and material,
flj Undoubtedly this esoteric fact would explain where
hum anity’s early ideas of gods and goddesses 'came
from j%r j%r
Gods and goddesses, the whole gamut of mythology,
were doubtless derived from traditional memories of a
time when beings of a higher degree of unfoldment exer­
cised their incarnated wisdom in all common aspects of
mundane residence— not only the higher-octave spiritual
but the materialistic and quasi-political as well.
But this thing happened—■
A s individual human beings or their satellites profited by
the emulations of their unfoldments without being com­
petent to graduate utterly out of this mundane octave,
the retrograde incarnations of these higher beings were
not so recurrently demanded by the earthly social cir­
cumstance. These higher beings withdrew more and
more from the earth-arena and left it to the different
gradations of unfolding personalities to spell them in
589
their more efficient wisdoms. And as no man learns
more about government than he who aspires to rule, or
actually does rule, so leadership mentoring began to be
a development right here in the earthly arena itself and
without the more urgent calls on the higher-octave
hierarchy that had originally been necessary.
Right there the notion of one-man leadership was
evolved and was demonstrated.
AK E note, however, that no one man has
ever succeeded in mentoring, or taking
rulership over the entire earth-scene, but
the Christ— and that only happened be­
cause He was cosmically equipped along
the hierarchy lines I have previously suggested. U n­
doubtedly the first universal mentors to the People of
the Great Migration on this planet were all of the con-
sciousness-unfoldments of the Christ. But these in their
virginal essence have long since disappeared— that is to
say, the necessity for their common incarnation has no
longer been of real cosmic moment.
Society progressed in its social and political recognitions
to a point where lieutenants and understrappers from
lower octaves of consciousness than the original
Chrystos but higher than the common mean of earth-
humanity, could substitute in practical function. And
somewhere along the line, representatives of this inter­
mediate caste made this discovery: W hen given groups
of volatile and sentient spirits pool their potentialities
590
for action in any particular, but disregard the mental
diversities that must otherwise exercise in the propor­
tion of their numbers, they multiply their powers in
exact ratio to their numbers and in the degree to which
they relinquish to the one controlling Mind.
Here is a truth and a law too stupendous to be read care­
lessly. It is what w e may call the Law of Alignment.
<J Tw o men equipped with ten brains will duplicate ten
times the powers of the one.
Ten men equipped with, or controlled by, five brains
out of the ten, will double their capabilities for perform­
ance— assuming five eccentric diversities in exercise ip
€| Ten men equipped with, or controlled by, the brain
of one, will attain unto achievements that represent the
compensations of the ten men accruing to the one.
M entality in whatever aspects w e discern it, always
means individuality. Individuality always means di­
versity or squandering or duplication of effort.
In the exact ratio that mentality in supervision is
simplified as to exercise, the effects of the effort will
show converse increase.
One directing brain in the head of a chieftain controlling
or supervising a tribe of one hundred individuals, will
consummate profits to each individual a hundredfold
over what the hundred brains could consummate for a
hundred separate personalities exercising individually.
C| The same principle works if the census of a kingdom
be a hundred millions, instead of the barbaric tribe of the
hundred ip ip
591
The leader says to the hundred or the hundred m illion:
“You have a hundred, or a hundred million, bodies and
will-powers to consummate. But in the ratio that you
let your individualities lead you into diverse pursuits,
you emasculate your powers of attainments. If now,
therefore, you let m y one brain epitomize all the exer­
cising mentalities of the horde, you shall each of you be
a hundred, or a hundred thousand, times as successful
or mighty as you would be, each alone.”
In other words, one brain in direction of a group means
unity, concentration of purpose and effort, lack of con­
fusion, lack of duplication of effort.
Two brains, means two activating will-powers, friction,
irritation of temperament each with the other, the po­
tential power therefore cut precisely in half.
The idea of One God at the apex of all the universe,
doubtless has come from the universal recognition of this
Law of Alignment: that because there is perfect order
in the natural universe, therefore there cannot possibly
be more than one Will-Mentality exercising over mani­
fested creation.
Human beings in the earth-state octave have not yet
arrived at the qualification of consciousness where they
can accredit whole hierarchies of Will-Mentalities so
perspicacious and discriminating as to outcomes from is­
sues that they can align their mentalities to acknowledg­
ments of flawless results from positive causations—re­
taining their individualities and yet universally concur­
ring in problematical denouement, even hypothetically
592
rendered. If human beings could approximate anything
like it, they would no longer be confined to the status
of the human— incarnate or discarnate— but would as­
cend into such hierarchy memberships and demonstra­
tions, each in his own right.
E that as it may, the arbitrary supervision
of the one W ill-M entality has always been
the synonym for Minimized Disorder in
the affairs or consummations of men. And
in the exact ratio that the need for Mini­
mized Disorder has been urgent up over the millenniums,
one-man spiritual, military, or civic directorship, has
been the unerring product.
W himsical human w its delight in prating o f the
“beauties” of democracy, communism, socialism, even
of constitutional chamber-of-deputies government; but
all of them are philosophic playthings in the face of
factual emergency or lethal dilemma. Then the Law
of Alignm ent operates automatically.
The Athenian Democracy relinquished its mob-jury
powers to Themistocles or Pericles when threatened by
the A egean Confederation. Imperial Rome bowed to
the personal accomplishments of Julius Caesar.
W hen a papal monarch had sabotaged Britain, a nation
of burghers concentrated their individual postulations in
Cromwell. French mobs had a Reign of Terror— but the
single directing genius of Napoleon cleaned up the mess
and restored order so that human life could function.
593
€fl In the late world war, the Unified Command under
Foch, spelled the commencement of real victories won.
€| The Russian Jews installed socialistic com m unism ;
but Lenin, and then Stalin, said what the mass thought
of all Communists was to become in aggressive action.
€f The Congress of the United States the other day put
through a Bill literally making the President supreme
dictator of this constitutional republic in the event of
war— which was the tacit admission that a constitution­
al republic in event of martial crisis was an impracticali-
ty and could not be trusted; therefore and thereby negat­
ing the fact o f true constitutionalism at a stroke.
The Law of Alignment is the Law of Social Power.
In the partially unfolded status of sentient beings in this
octave, filled with two billion diverse personalities and
therefore mental confusions, there can be no uniformity
of direct and infallible reasonings from a given cause to
a perceived result. So Will-Mentalities are negated and
to a degree abolished or disregarded. Perhaps the better
term would be, surrendered.
The one brain of the Master-Mentor, be he spiritual
priest of the Chrystos pattern or diabolical angel of the
Pit like Lenin, becomes the repository for as many acting
wills as there are units in the body politic. Therefore,
whoever gives an order to one other man, and has it
obeyed without remonstrance, is in that slight degree a
King. This Law of Will-Mentality Alignment, w e must
acknowledge when w e come to consider the merits or de­
merits of the One-Man Rule in political conduct.
594
TH E THIRTY-EIGHTH DISCUSSION
N A T I O N S - I N - L A W
±jr TH E THIRTY-EIGHTH DISCUSSION r
UFFICIENT ink has been used
to float a dozen battleships—
particularly in this country
since the American Revolution
— in seeking to prove that no
form of earthly government is
viler or more to be avoided
than One-Man Government as
personalized in the Old W orld’s
kings and queens. For a hundred and fifty years jingo­
ism to such effect has run rampant in these United
States. Small children are shaken out of their cradles,
dropped into school-seats, and drilled like little robots
in the proposition that all men are created equal, that
they have certain inalienable rights, that among those
rights are life, liberty, and the pursuit of sot-called
democracy. In time they actually accredit this non­
sense. They can even be persuaded in their maturer
years to go to war and die for it. No one stops to ques­
tion whether or not it is true.
The cold-brained analyst of history, no less a good
American on that account, knows that One-Man rule
597
is no better and no worse than the temperament and
character of the one man who does the ruling.
But that is not all he knows.
H e knows that either a Constitutional Monarchy, or a
Republic, is only as good a government as the calibre,
honesty, and capabilities, of the people’s representatives
called up to conduct it.
This business of damning all one-person governments
simply because the arbitrary power is concentrated in
one pair of hands is truly as nonsensical as the favorite
American political pastime of thinking that five hun­
dred and thirty-one nincompoops, brought under one
roof as a Congress, are thereby endowed through such
congregation with the executive or legislative wisdom
of five hundred and thirty-one Solomons.
The United States— or its forerunning colonies— broke
away from Great Britain because a fool sat on the throne
of the British Isles. It was the fool the colonists wanted
to be rid of, but because he happened to be a king they
worked up a lot more independence-lather among the
brethren getting them to insurrect against kings in
general tp Jfe*
The assumption that all kings are vile, merely because
now and then a throne contains a lout, is as eccentric
and callow a line of reasoning as adulating a chamber of
deputies merely because it is a chamber of deputies and
can thereby do no wrong.
Both of these ideas are matters of premeditated educa­
tion. A nd as usual, it is found to be to som e special
598
clique’s or bloc’s surreptitious advantage to have the
education thus propounded.
A nation can be made to adulate anything, providing
its citizenry is seized young enough and trained to think
that the wisdom of its elders to certain ends and proposi­
tions surpasses any wisdom that has ever been re»-
vealed ±?
Viewed academically and dispassionately, what the
early colonists did was to fight themselves free from the
arbitrary and whimsical fiats of the king and the king’s
party in England. And in place of the one man, who
at the time obviously needed his brains x-rayed, they
immediately set over themselves a hierarchy of political
overlords i?
Instead of freeing themselves from the tyrannies of one
man, they founded a political system under which they
eventually arrived— in the year 1938— at the suzerainty
of five hundred and thirty-one men, every mother’s son
of whom is esoterically confident of his eccentric abilities
to boss the whole bunch.
599
E are faced, in this prospect, with this chal­
lenge in logic: If one-person rule is so odi­
ous, w hy do w e not kick the Jehovah of
our religion off the Throne of the U ni­
verse? W hy do w e castigate in our political
system exactly the solitaire rulership that w e hold to be
the apex of spiritual idealty in our scheme of celestialty?
To be consistent, a people who go in for chamber of
deputy rulership in their worldly institutions— to the
point of fetish— should declare religiously for a divine
panthology. Let there be many celestial dieties, and a
senate and house of representatives of the gods.
But no, the idea is abhorrent.
W e admit of the arbitrary ruler at the head of the Uni­
verse, yet when w e come to the same notion brought
down into political materialty, it is suppressive and
archaic 2? 2?
Account for this inconsistency, w e cannot, excepting
that the Jewish Bible— and our parents— have TOLD
us that there is but one God at the head of the universe
and w e had better believe it or land in eternal Tophet.
W e do not fancy landing in eternal Tophet, and so w e
do not argue.
W e believe in the One God.
If w e choose to appeal to logic, the only way that w e
can prove up one God as being at the head of the uni­
verse, is by noting that the universe is a scheme of
miraculous Balance and in our earthly observation we
attribute the exercise of Balance, or Law and Order, to
600
the arbitrary dictates of the solitaire intellect.
Tw enty men considering a process, dictate twenty opin­
ions about it, with twenty subsequent confusions.
If there are no confusions in the natural or religious uni­
verse, therefore there must be but a single Divine Brain
running things.
Such is our postulate.
That a thousand— or ten thousand— exquisitely-un­
folded Oversouls might all think alike, never occurs to
us. The Jewish religion says that even to entertain
such a thought is a species of blasphemy. W e fear the
penalties from blasphemy and so w e do not think it 5?
€J The One God reigns supreme.
But for any one god to reign supreme in the mortal
political sense would be anathema to American tradi­
tional institutions as set up by the forefathers.
Our logic is chaotic.
Our thinking is the product of what processes have been
drilled into our infant brains to follow, while in plastic
state at school.
601
OW I am not arguing for one-man rule, as
the best rule for humankind and over
mortal-political institutions. I am calling
attention to the fact that we in America
have few ideas upon the subject of what
is best in government that are obtained by analytical
thinking and cool logical deductions.
One-man rule, I repeat, is only as meritorious or per­
nicious as the spiritual unfoldment and quality of con­
sciousness of the man who heads, or dictates, the eccen­
tricities of his particular governmental system.
To arrive at an understanding of one-man rule, how­
ever, we must consider the aspects in which it commonly
exercises 3% f
All one-man rules are not the same.
We have three— and perchance four— aspects of it in the
mundane arena.
First, we have the Tyrant. Second, the Autocrat. Third,
the Dictator. Fourth— if we choose to include it— either
the Absolute or Constitutional Monarch.
The average citizen exclaims at this: “My goodness, is
there such difference?”
As a matter of fact, there is every difference. The only
thing they have in common is the single-unit concept
of executive performance.
If you have read my book “Behold Life”— and I sin­
cerely trust that you have done so, in order to gain a
balanced digest of what this earthly miasma is all about
— you will recall that from page 295 to 326 I gave you
602
a comprehensive analysis of the four types of ruler-
ship, each distinguished from the other. Assuming,
however, that you have not read the book, let me sum­
marize them thus—
First, the Tyrant is the absolute master— the despot.
He is the one who exercises authority, lawfully or un­
lawfully, who rules oppressively or cruelly as his per­
sonal whim may dictate, who exercises arbitrary power
without legal warrant or any consulting of those in­
volved as subjects.
Second, w e have the Autocrat.
W e get the title from the two Greek words “autos” and
“kratos” meaning Self and Strength.
A n autocracy is that system of government— again pla­
giarizing from m yself for the moment— wherein the
strong-willed leader, or the leader retying on self­
strength, contrives to abrogate strict jurisdiction unto
himself over all branches and divisions of government.
He makes himself the general dominating head over
each, in commission as well as effect, unifying all depart­
ments of the public service through the interlocking
holding company that is his personal self.
Third, we have the Dictator.
The term Dictator comes from the Latin “dictatus”—
to say or to propose. And that is precisely what your
modern dictator does, and not much more.
A dictatorship is a system wherein the strong will of a
resolute leader-soul dominates the character of the work­
ings of either a democracy, a republic, or a constitutional
603
monarchy, and prescribes— and insists on policies being
enacted into statutory law— which shall align with his
capricious or studied measures to preserve his person,
his office, or his political psychology, in the public
esteem. He dictates the Nature of the policies. If de­
partments or offices of orderly government demur, his
power to enforce such dictation rests on his appeal,
through his personal popularity, to the whole body of the
citizens £& it*
Fourth, w e have the Absolute or Constitutional
Monarch j%r
The reason w hy w e put a question mark after him as
belonging in the category of the one-man rulers is be­
cause he is bound to be more or less a figure of chance—
chance of lucky birth into the royal line— and relies for
his authority upon a political system already established.
<J Such a luckily-born monarch is the public sovereign,
but his office is circumscribed. H e is really influenced
by a body of ministers, with his authorities and pre­
rogatives described and limited in advance by expres­
sions or acquiescences of the popular will set down
officially in writings and subscribed to by all parties—
ruler and ruled.
It might be stated that a Monarchy is almost a republic,
only that rulers are perpetual in their occupancy of the
public offices so long as they evidence good behavior and
do not transgress arbitrary bounds.
The expressions of the popular will, as to what shall
compose government and in what form it shall be ad-
604
ministered by such perpetual officeholders, is termed a
Constitution j%f jfc*
ERE w e have four types of single-headed,
one-executive government. So, when
anyone declares unlearnedly that one-man
government is bad, it truly should be up
to such a critic to identify which type or
role of one-man government he means. Caligula and
Stalin are prototypes of tyrants. Pericles and Mussolini
are prototypes of autocrats. Hitler and Roosevelt are
prototypes of dictators. A s for the constitutional mon-
archs, the Old World abounds with so many of them
that w e do not need to refer to them specifically.
Today, in America, w e are having a perfectly silly and
childish pother as to whether or not Roosevelt aspires to
make himself dictator, or whether John L. Lewis of the
Red-Jewish Labor movement will make himself dictator,
or whether out of the ruck of all this political blither and
bedlam, the ultimate dictator shall be Pelley of the
Christian Vigilante Silvershirts.
A ll of it is academic, superficial, revelatory of the cir­
cumscriptions of our civic terminology.
A ny man who dictates the political policies of our na­
tion— or any nation— is a Dictator!
H e may say to a legislative chamber of deputies or to a
populate: “Do you approve of the policies I recommend
for your welfare?” They may respond: “W e certainly
do!” and keep him in office— a process known as a
605
plebiscite when resorted to. They may respond: “W e
certainly do not!” and turn him out in favor of someone
else ijjt £«
It is one-man rulership while it lasts, and it is Dictator­
ship in essence. Moreover, it is usually the procedure
in all constitutional republics or democracies, whether
the inhabitants concede it or not.
The list of Dictators in American affairs is formidable:
Thomas Jefferson was thus a Dictator.
Andrew Jackson— “Old Hickory”— was a Dictator.
Abraham Lincoln was a Dictator.
Grover Cleveland was a Dictator.
Mark Hanna, Thomas Platt, Uncle Joe Cannon— all
these were Dictators.
Theodore Roosevelt, while he was President, was one of
the sturdiest Dictators of the lot.
On the evening in which this chapter of this book is
written, Franklin D. Roosevelt is Dictator over the whole
American Commonwealth.
W hy?
Because a Dictator is only the man— usually the execu­
tive— who dictates, out of his own sagacity or the
sagacity of the counsellors he has gathered about him,
what the policies for a nation in its civic life, are to be.
<| Today our people are grossly confusing the word
Dictator with Tyrant, or even Autocrat.
The reason they fight the misnomer of Dictator, and
the system they imagine he represents, is that they re­
sent that one man, out of his eccentricities or caprices,
606
should acquire the police power to tell them how and
when they shall work, who they shall work for and at
what wages, what they shall read, how much time they
shall have for work and play and sleep, and at precisely
what hour they shall turn the public lamps off and go
into physical sleep.
The great Jewish oligarchy of constitutional usurpers
comes to the shores of the United States, prescribes all
these aggravating circumscriptions, calls it academically
a Democracy, and through a byplay on terms, works a
public support for its psychopathies that grows to a
fanaticism. Thus are men beguiled by words.
F COURSE, the most erudite of civic
analysts concedes that it is bad for the wel­
fare of a people to have the public weal
dependent from day to day on the mer­
curial moods of some solitare and arbitrary
chief. <
j[ The old colonists, I say, did not take arms
against a kingly system half so much as they took up
arms against a royal bigot. If the British royal line had
spawned a brainy, tolerant, human-nature-wise states­
man, in 1776, instead of a bumptious ass who resented
infringement on fancied divine prerogatives, there might
never have been a War for American Independence and
consequently a United States of America.
The trouble with a monarch in a dynastical system is,
that the populace must take the incompetent with the
capable, the statesman with the bigot, the solon with
607
the nincompoop. The royal line is a Blind Poke. A
people must prosper or suffer according to whatever
character comes out.
The colonists of the W est refused to shoot political
craps longer with Nature and Luck. If sobeit they drew
a dud, in the matter of a ruler, in at least four years
time they wanted a w ay to ditch him.
So they went the whole w ay into antithesis and said:
“Let us abolish the dynastical system altogether. Let us
go hither and yon among the citizenry and pick whom ­
soever seems to have natural qualities for leadership.”
q i n a way, it was the worst possible alternative, be­
cause in casting aside the royal-line structure altogether
they were likewise abolishing for all time the buffer
between themselves and vast public rascality that
dynasties from time immemorial have ever provided.
Meaning this—
In every state of society with or without pretensions to
organization, there are ever two elements: The con­
structive and the reactionary, the stable and the
predatory. Human nature since the Year One has al­
ways spawned its burglars, chiselers, and parasites
whose philosophy is: “Only fools work!”
W hen on a large scale these predatory and parasitical
blocs encounter a dynasty, they meet with a stabilized
obstruction. The permanent king realizes at once— if
he has any capabilities toward kingcraft at all— that
to permit this bloc to infiltrate into his kingdom means
the wreck of its prosperity and the undermining of his
608
throne. H aving arbitrary power, he brings it to book.
€| “You are forbidden to do this or that!” he orders it,
and should it fail to obey, he ejects or imprisons those
who compose it.
The king, by thus protecting his throne against such
malevolent and subversive influences, likewise protects
the fortunes of his subjects.
Under chamber-of-deputy rule— a Constitutional R e­
public if you please— the buffer must be absent.
It becomes to no one m an’s advantage to arrest or re­
strain the predatory bloc. In fact, the predatory bloc
may “get” to the sectional representative, grease his
palm with coins, compromise him morally, loan him
funds, finance his campaigns.
Thereafter he is agent.
M ultiply such surreptitious corruption as many times as
there are legislators, and a country is undone!
The time will come, and not far distant, when the peo­
ple of the erstwhile republic that was the United States
will awaken to the fact that thus have the Jewish ele­
ments operated to promote with mad hysteria the
Democratic Idea.
Five hundred and thirty-one representatives of sectional­
isms in the Congress are thinking only of the interests
of their sections— or their constituents in each section.
No one of them can think of the good of the whole, els
the king thinks because he represents the whole.
The predatory, parasitical, corrupting Jew knows that
a country without a king— unless it be a Jewish king
609
controlled by his racial elders— and childishly trifling
with the idealism of Democracy, is “wide open” to his
clandestine control of duress brought upon individuals,
<1 So a constitutional republic loses in this regard— and
a very ugly loss— in the exact ratio that a monarchy
gains ijf ±*e
NDERSTAND me, by no means am I dar­
ing to assert that nations whose form of
rule is monarchal are automatically im­
mune from assailments by cliques or
blocs— racial or political— whose nature is
predatory and therefore corruptive. If such argument
were sound to such degree, no monarchy would exhibit
any predatory and corruptive element ensconced be­
neath its rule. Even a schoolboy-glance at political his­
tory over the past hundred years—
-and no longer— indi­
cates how absurd must be such contention. It is be­
cause of this fact that I placed the question mark or
qualification against the constitutional monarchy as
falling within the first classification of One-Man Rule.
Truth to tell, constitutional monarchies as the western
world knows them today are more properly exhibited
for the student’s examination in the classifications of
Party Rule or Chamber of Deputies Rule. W hile one
man, the king, heads them nominally, the real ruling is
done by the king’s party in his name, or by the parlia­
ment, which is a compromise in executiveship between
the king’s party and the people’s party.'
610
In declaring that the people have a buffer against preda­
tory and corruptive elements in the personification of
the dynasty, I am treating strictly with Absolute Mon­
archy. A nd there are almost no major Absolute Mon­
archies left on earth today.
The last one disappeared with the fall of the Romanofs.
Even the Mikado of Nippon can no longer be classed as
an Absolute Monarchy, since the Four Elder Statesmen
and the Nipponese Diet qualify him more expertly as the
constitutional monarch under the terms set forth
already. Som e of the petty States of native India and
politically inconsequential sections of the Near East, still
maintain kingcraft forms that are absolute monarchies,
but most of them are generally regarded as archaic.
England, France, the Confederate German States up to
the times of Frederick the Great, Italy, Greece, and the
Balkan principalities, all have known subtle or open
alteration in character from absolutism to constitutional
limitation. China within this generation has gone the
same route. Russia was not given time to go the route
but was altered in a twelve-month, drastically and tragi­
cally, from one to the other somewhat after the program
of 1789 in France.
Politically illiterate humankind delights to advance the
argument that such changes typify Progress, that the
Rule of the People has something sacrosanct and there­
fore divine about it, that in accomplishing freedom from
the supervision of absolute monarchy there has been
distinct ethical achievement by the race as a spiritual
611
species. A t the risk of seeming insufferably dogmatic,
I assert that nothing of the sort is true.
Absolute monarchies in our recent social world have
tottered and collapsed— or altered into constitutional
monarchies— because they have affected to exercise the
very buffers between populace and predatory bloc that
I am making the substance of my argument.
So long as they personalized such buffer effectively, they
resolutely endured. When they began to relax vigilance
and disregarded the unceasing and assiduous borings of
the predatory and parasitical element, the underpinnings
of their thrones showed signs of decay.
This brings us again to a consideration of the Jews.
A t the risk of seeming to exhibit a certain fanaticism on
the subject of Judah in our modern world, I say that no
work of this kind can be true or comprehensive without
mentioning the Jews for precisely what they are: a
strange, psychopathic, and bastardly aggregation of in­
trovert races coagulated by the interest of common racial
and theological distinctions, gradually accomplishing
their spraddle over all the other nations and peoples of
the planet by a carefully-thought-out technique under
the aggressive direction of a rabbinical hierarchy.
I successfully submit my argument to challenge when
I say that as far back as human historical archives carry,
every people or every set of nationals have been called to
contend with, succumb to, or withstand this peculiarly
disintegrating racial influence.
Back over a score of Jurisdictional Cycles we come upon
612
this predatory-parasitical element labeled Set-un, or the
People of the Spirit of Disorder in Governments.
The word Satan is a straight-line derivative from such
label 5$ 2*
It constitutes an exhibit of the basic principle of all vi­
bration underlying or effecting Nature: Positive and
Negative forces operating one upon the other and pro­
ducing action and reaction.
The Jews as individuals are not to blame for this, any­
more than fire should be held up to odium as fire in that
unharnessed or circumscribed it consumes materials of
combustible character that may be exposed to it.
Judah as a recognized unit of the human race, identified
by certain non-constructive ethics, is obviously called
to play the role of butcher-bird among the starlings of
Aryan humanities.
Viciously enough, the aggressions and introvert aspira­
tions of such unit, to gain any appreciable exercise at
all, must camouflage themselves with antithesis or they
would immediately be recognized and repulsed whereso­
ever they essayed to operate.
So w e forever behold such aggressions and unhallowed
or non-constructive aspirations proclaimed as Progress,
Liberty-Fraternity-Equality,— three terms, incidentally,
that are individually in combat with each other— G ov­
ernment of the People, For the People, and By the Peo­
ple, the Rights of the People to Govern Themselves.
A ll such academic hocus-pocus appeals basically to the
vanities or envies of the down-trodden or seemingly un-
613
derprivileged, therefore are the masses easily bestirred
to exercise their numerical superiority and establish
mediocrity as the norm of rulercraft instead of evolved
or unfolded capability fundamentally expressed in true
aristocracy jfc*
DEPT investigators of Judah and Judah’s
ageless program— and they are many since
the dramatic assertion of the Nazi princi­
ple in Germany— uniformly discern with a
sort of inexorable pessimism that so wide­
spread and basic have the spurious social instructings of
this introvert people become, that they have reached an
unholy blending into the very traditions and moral struc­
tures of modern races.
For instance, no one bethinks to challenge the fall of
kingcraft and the rise of republicanism as perhaps not
being social or political progress at all, but merely a play
on words and vanities in order to render whole nationals
vulnerable to parasitical disintegration.
A Fourth of July orator arises and fans the air with
rampant jingoisms about Freedom! Artful references
to the Land of the Free and Home of the Brave will fer­
ment such an hysteria in the emotions of underprivileged
hearers— who of course, being in life for discipline, par­
ticularly desire to escape it— that he will have his ros­
trum torn from beneath him and be carried from the
field on ranks of willing shoulders.
The true statesman, possessing analytical faculties earn-
614
ing him such designation, appreciates without either
cynicism or spiritual lament that while the world-state
endures there can never be any such thing as Freedom.
The very essence of social organization implies some as­
pect of surrender of individual liberties to the welfare of
the whole. Already I have treated extensively of this,
in pages preceding. But the tocsin of it infallibly serves
to scrape up hom age and followship for him who
utters it ±jr
Judah’s Ageless Program takes full and mature note of
this, and upon it as a basis, erects its gigantic and suc­
cessful deceit. Mediocrity is persuaded to eliminate
aristocratic capability and enthrone its own caprices—
which must ever be childish and therefore controllable
caprices by the bloc so agitating them. The weaknesses,
never the strengths, of absolute hereditary monarchies
are castigated till the populace is worked to the proper
frenzy for their demolition. “Glorious” revolutions are
inspired— which are not glorious at all, but artfully
sordid and hypocritically baleful. A ll of them run an
identical cycle. H aving accomplished the secret designs
of the projectors— that is, having destroyed the buffers
between people and predatory clique which the absolute
monarchy offers, else revolution would never have be­
come of moment at all— the surreptitious revolution-
makers peg the overthrow of forms by violence by call­
ing in the Abolute Military. A Napoleon is “backed”
by these artisans in emotion, and violence is directed by
him to subdue violence. The Predatory Clique is es-
615
tablished in the saddle— if not openly political then
financial and economic— the people exchange one poten­
tate with a single set of weaknesses and faults but gen­
erally antagonistic to the race-parasites, for a dozen, a
hundred, or a thousand ward-heeler overlords, cor­
ruption is made universal among these but of necessity
secret, and when through it the State has reached pros­
tration of its resources, the Strong Man in the personage
of an absolute ruler must emerge again on the simple
principle of the survival of society. This ruler, be he
designated as tyrant, despot, autocrat, or dictator, finds
ways to ruthlessly extinguish the predatory-parasitical
element and the grandiose process repeats.
Again I dare to say, there is Progress in none of it.
Again I emphasize. Progress is not achieved by round­
ing either a circle or a cycle.
The thing that is achieved is a better quality of spiritual
consciousness in the individual, as the individual is borne
upward in this somewhat circular pattern as though he
were walking upon the cuttings of an upright screw £&
€J It goes without saying that this is the phase of the
Jurisdictional Cycle which w e are seeing occur in these
fraught years in Hitlerian Germany, and to a lesser
measure in Italy and Russia.
It is likewise the irrefutable destiny for the United States,
whether w e approve of the prospect or not.
True statesmen have to be first of all, philosophers—
or perhaps I might better describe them, social scien­
tists. Their true patriotism is the greater altruism of
616
seeing the Ultimate Unfoldments of their particular peo­
ple, not practicing slavish adulations to non-understood
traditions £&
Such distinctions, of course, antagonize the rank and
file of the sentimental for the moment. They make
them exclaim amongst themselves: “Then our Ameri­
can Experiment is a failure!”
They are antagonized, however, not by the assertions of
the obvious, but by an enforced necessity for recog­
nizing that perchance the obvious is true.
As for the American Experiment being a failure, we
must first show ourselves erudite enough to concede
that the United States never was an experiment to begin
with. There again w e have been led astray by plati­
tudinous deceits that a baleful racial influence might
proceed to advantage.
The political expansion of the original western-world
colonization has been naught but the cycle aspect of an
orderly and inevitable process in the denouement of the
social-organization idea.
Sentiment may make such contention reprehensible but
sentiment cannot unseat the stern law of Fact.
617
NE-MAN Rule makes for concentration of
efficiency in the transaction of the public
business only to the degree that the nomi­
nated executive is first intelligent and
efficient— that is, personally competent—
in his unfolded character or quality of consciousness.
So it is again puerile to call Efficiency an unalterable
characteristic of tyranny, autocracy, or dictatorship.
Generally it is exercised to some degree, however, else
the tyrant, autocrat, or dictator does not keep his place.
€J The more dependable benefit of one-man rule upon a
populace is this feature of enforced automatic protection
from the predatory-parasitical element that every minute
of every hour of every day is seeking to innoculate the
Body-Politic with corruption and disintegration.
The tyranny, the autocracy, the dictatorship, or the ab­
solute monarchy, may cause the populace to suffer in
the instance of the individual by abolition of certain
rights in self-expression generally considered essential
to spiritual unfoldment, but it does make for stability of
civic organization.
The throne of the Romanofs was the most secure throne
in Europe for the very reason that its czar’s rule was
absolute. It took a major world war and an orgasm of
the most revolting barbaric violence to unseat him
€| It was the very security of this throne because of its
absolutism that brought such a terrific concentration of
predatory-parasitical powers upon it. Furthermore, it
was taking advantage of propitious world conditions
618
that wrought the Romanof downfall, not essential
weaknesses within itself.
Naturally I would not have my reader conclude from
this, that I am agitating for the czaristic type of ruler-
craft as the perfect type, or that I hold it in superiority
over the forms exercising in differentiated countries,
particularly our own.
I am simply examining fundamentally the outstanding
advantages and State increments deriving from the One-
Man Type of Rule, that we may understand why hu­
manity inevitably reverts back to it periodically, and
why it covers a longer segment of each cycle than the
rule of the Party or the Chamber of Deputies.
Now let us consider more minutely the disadvantages of
this civic phenomenon and observe their concretions in
the rise to arbitrary authority of the Party or the Con­
stitutional Republic, Democracy, or Monarchy. . . .
619
THE THIRTY-NINTH DISCUSSION
N A T I O N S - I N - L A W
TH E THIRTY-NINTH DISCUSSION
N a recent occasion an assistant f
to the Attorney-General of the ^
United States — characteristi- C
j
cally of Jewish extraction —
made this utterance in a public
speech: “Only those are fit to
govern who have the courage
and ability to seize power suc­
cessfully and use it!” He was
paving the w ay as he could for the coming of the
American Jewish Bolsheviks, and offering an advance
alibi for the usurpations of his clique in America’s fed­
eral affairs. Ostensibly too, he was excusing the
dictatorial policies of the Yiddish Party in America’s
great economic pestilence of the years 1929 to 1941 i *
This sort of thing, projected from a man so highly
and responsibly placed as an assistant to the Attorney-
General, cannot help but work its psychological mis­
chief on minds not accustomed to considering its impli- 1
cations deeply. It appears, on its face, to be an acclaim­
ing or adulating of jurisdictional heroisms— leadership
taking the commendably aggressive in the sterilities of j
623
economic prostration— but to the civically erudite it is
quite the opposite.
W hat this Jewish assistant to the Attorney-General was
saying in effect was: “Might makes right!”
In other words, if you have the strength and audacity
to be boss, you have the right to be boss by virtue of
your demonstrated self-strength.
Strange indeed it is, to find such utterances solemnly
pronounced by the same bloc in our present national
life exclaiming hysterically for the preservation of
democracy and the stabilizing of majority rule against
the inroads or encroachments of Fascism. Bolshevism
however, being essentially satanistic, takes no care to be
logical or consistent. So the point need not be argued.
CJThe postulate, on the other hand, that Might Makes
Right— that force in seizing power is its own alibi for
exercising that power— is something for the analyst
seriously to consider.
Does might make right?
Certainly the inquiry and its answer ties in m ost appro­
priately with our present topic under discussion: the
malodorous aspects of One-Man Rule and the inevitable
denouement of one-man rule into party rule as those
aspects become actualized to public disgruntlement.
624
H A T certain individuals endowed with the
more unfolded consciousness do seize
power— as their capabilities and oppor­
tunities permit— is, o f course, a platitude.
The one executive brain, epitomizing some
sort of remedial idea, turns the confusion caused by a
million brains all thinking to individualized cross-pur­
poses, into the one program of action, and by eliminating
such confusion, constructive principles are permitted to
exercise ip ip
If Might— that is to say, Force or Violence— must be
employed to do this, and the product is assumed to be
Right, then w e have the prerogative of looking trench­
antly at Right and knowing in each instance what it
consists of, that it is so justified.
Right, so to speak, must perpetually be qualified.
Right of itself is impossible to recognize; always it
must be identified by some association with wrong.
In any usurpation of power then, by one individual, the
contention that Force or Violence carries its own justifi­
cation must be— or should be— accompanied by the ex­
position: justified as to W H A T, or in the face of what?
<J To be tolerated or accredited at all, the axiom that
Might Makes Right should be translated rather: Might
as force or violence is justifiable in the face of some
chaotic condition currently prevailing, that the employ­
ment or enforcement of the said Might may invoke a
benefit upon the group assemblage. In saying that Might
Makes Right, and assuming that perchance it does, the
625
speaker is conveying that society must have arrived in
some sort of cul de sac in its receiving of benevolences,
where its continued expressions along a given line
merely increase the degree of its sterilities.
A lw ays w e must come back to the proposition: W hat
is best, essentially, for the group as a whole?
Human organization in the earth-arena being what it is,
and all souls entering into it having equal prerogatives
in deriving benefits from it, the Cosmic Supervision
recognizes no one person or set of persons as having
claims upon the more eternal benevolences to the detri­
ment or denial of others.
This was the great truth whose expression was at­
tempted in our Declaration of Independence when the
assertion was used as a tocsin that “all men are created
equal”
They were created on a par as to candidacies for the
reception of opportunities for experiences that should
the more adroitly and swiftly unfold their consciousness.
<| Thus considerations of group improvements always
must take in as many individuals as possible, that the
Celestial Pattern as it applies to earth may be served.
C
J Blindly and not always willingly, this is what the
One-Man Rule essays when by hook or crook he en­
forces his personal philosophies upon his fellows, mak­
ing them follow his social recommendations as worldly
connivance offers him the power to do so.
He is making mandatory his own mentor-notions that
benevolences of some sort may come to a group, albeit
626
that group m ay not be numerically superior amid all the
human units wherein it operates.
Receivers in bankruptcy to society from time immemor-
able have H A D to take the philosophical attitude that the
exigencies of the situation justified their dictatorial con­
duct, because the celestial law of the Greatest Good to
the Greatest Number is impossible to flout.
Boiled down into a capsule, however, what One-Man
Rulership is justifying is: the employment of force to
negate or render emasculate one set of individuals with
their peculiar ideas, that benefits expressed in law and
order of an equally eccentric character may accrue to a
caste, class, or even a majority.
H e is merely the agent that makes one set of ideas un-
challengable or non-subvertible in action.
W hen w e consider the rightness of his conduct, there­
fore, w e must forever take into accompanying consid­
eration the nature of the prevalent social situation per­
mitting him to come to the fore.
No two such situations are ever alike.
If w e want to assume that Might Makes Right, w e must
finish our postulate in this manner: Force to effect the
coordination of ideas has been justified in this instance
because it is apparent as well as logical— and therefore
moral— that the non-employment of such force would
have meant a continuing disintegration of the social
structure and permanent disaster to a majority amid the
group Jt»r jfcjr
Might therefore does not make right. Might makes for
627
a condition wherein, or whereunder, the question of
what is right— or what is wrong— can be convincingly
determined t?
Right, I repeat, must ever be qualified.
If Might is employed in prospects that truly do enhance
the well-being of the majority within a group, there can
be no question as to its essential correctness.
If Might is employed in prospects that are subsequently
proven not to enhance the well-being of a majority
within the group, the malodorous effects will not only
disclose themselves at once but will work for the de-
molishment of the principals employing it.
W e have an illustration of both declensions in the
phenomena of Naziism and Bolshevism in Europe of the
present
Hitler embraces a form of Might to gain ascendency of
power for his German Brownshirts, serves efficiently
and beneficently as receiver in bankruptcy to the whole
German nation, and lifts the German State into prestige
and prosperity in a handful of years.
Looked at philosophically. Might has made for a “right
conditioning” as between Hitlerian Nazis and the pros­
trated Germans.
A few hundred miles east of Berlin, Josef Stalin em­
braces a form of Might to gain ascendency of power
for his Communistic cohorts inherited from Lenin. He
works himself—by intimidation and murder— into a
position more despotic than Nero, slaughters thirty mil­
lions in the process, makes Russia the rat’s nest of evil
628
as regards all neighboring states, and reduces his country
to the status of a colossal work-house. Power he has
seized, indeed. But Might has by no means made for a
right conditioning and daily and hourly Stalin’s regime
totters toward the brink of inglorious collapse.
Germany prospers under Hitler and the man’s power
becomes the phenomenon of our period. Russia suffers
ruin under Stalin and the man scarcely dares show him­
self to his subjects fearing that their vengeance will take
the form of his swift assassination.
W hat are these but qualifications of the axiom ’s appli­
cation to the circumstance?
A lw ays w e must concede that it is not the Might of itself
that must needs be castigated, but the use to which Might
is put eccentrically and proven deleterious or otherwise
by its social product.
If Might— that is, Force, Violence, Power— were not for
legitimate employment in this world, it would never
have appeared as an item in natural composition.
Might is certainly expressed in the policeman’s badge
and arm when he puts a thug in jail. Exactly the same
Might seizes hold upon an innocent suspect in a crime
and effects his retention behind the same bars. Might
has made FOR right in the first instance, but for wrong
in the second. To make the blanket assertion therefore
that Might Makes Right simply because it is might, is an
exercise defiant of intellect and philosophy.
The One-Man Rulership therefore can by no means
justify itself by declaring: “I have elevated m yself into
629
this position, therefore m y success renders me infallible
in m y decidings for the good of society.” The eternal
law will at once commence to operate and do its own
dictating. It will say to such a on e: “Thou fool! This
night is thy soul required of thee!” In other words,
“A s ye perform, so shall ye be adjudged.”
Christ put it: “By its fruits shall ye know the tree.”
In this case, the Tree of Rulership is no exception to the
wisdom ts* is*
O single strong characters gain to temporary
exercise of their supreme wills over the
individualized wills making up the so­
cialized mass. Their motivations may be
selfish or selfless, based on personal
vanities which require inordinate feeding and constant
adulation or upon the sincere desire to benefit their fel­
lows and vacate the scene as soon as expedient. But
always and forever, each makes this discovery: The
tax on the individualized faculties is like unto no other
tax in the consummate galaxy of human employments.
Cf To reduce the proposition into the vernacular, the
despot seizes power through an itch to boss his neigh­
bors, but after the first flush of victory and pleasurable
reactions from much huzzahing at his feat has ceased to
be a novelty, it gradually dawns upon him that he has
let himself in for an insufferable serfdom.
There is no imprisonment on earth comparable to the
630
discipline entailed in preserving one’s position in power
after he has gained it.
Envious associates, artful spies, antagonistic agitators,
open enemies devised from personalized antipathies, all
combine to create a menace to One-Man Rulership that
makes vigilance in the face of it a torment.
No ruler has ever endured the strain of it successfully.
Usurpers of power in the strictly One-Man Rulership
quickly recognize that unless they som ehow divide their
responsibilities and extend themselves through others,
they are going to fail to hold their usurpations, fail in
health or nerves, go mad, or fall by the assassin’s weapon
through the very nature of their eccentric elevation.
<J Pure tyrannies, therefore, must be forever transient.
The Celestial Supervisors seem to have made uncon-
testable provision that inhabitants of earth shall not fall
permanently into the status of robots, obedient forever
to the caprices of megalomaniacs.
First of all, being human himself— that is, exercising
through a physical vehicle that has limitations similar to
all physical vehicles in his subjects— the would-be
Master-Man ultimately discerns that there are not hours
enough in any one day to transact the business de­
volving on him as mentor.
The second discovery which he makes, is the appalling
prospect of having to become slave to insufferable
routine. H e must be at his palace or on his throne at
specified hours, wear the insignia of his office at pre­
scribed functions which sustain his elevation, hold
631
audience for his agents that his commands be correctly
executed, and sign wearying quantities of documents—
writing the same signature till he is sick of the sight of it.
ff The human spirit-mind is so constructed that the mo­
ment it does not derive new experiences and therefore
unfoldments from sequences of events, it promptly
atrophies. There is no standing still to spirit-mentality.
The very essence of routine is experience-sterility. On
the other hand, personal rulership makes the sternest
demands on the individual for maximum spiritual-
mental vigilance else he will be demolished from the
height of his column.
The moment therefore, that the would-be Master-Man
perceives what a hell he has created for himself, and
that truly he is the grandiose victim of a conflict which
can only end with his disappearance from the scene, he
reacts as the Celestial Supervisors have made provision
for him to react: He gathers a staff of lesser mentor-
spirits about him as satellites to do the many things that
shall mitigate his plight.
In that instant, whether he cares to concede it or not, he
has begun to abdicate his rulership and the Party is
born! ijr
632
HE PARTY, which always and forever is
the item of evolution out of One-Man
Rulership, may take the aspect of the
monarchal court, the cabinet of ministers,
or the conclave of tributary chieftains.
But it has to evolve, from the very nature of the human
limitations exhibited in the absolute ruler. “A bsolute”
as a term to describe him is quickly proven to be a
fallacy, a paradox, a vicious absurdity. The moment a
second man’s brain must be utilized to aid in a ruling,
there are two individualized opinions both calling for
expression in terms of executive decreeing.
The absolute ruler has vacated his position to that
amount, I say, and though he may continue to act as the
symbol of authority he has nevertheless weakened him­
self and begun sowing the seeds of his ultimate dis­
appearance ip ip
The process is inexorable.
It is for this basic reason that no man will ever be able
to rule the whole earth. Many childish brains, obsessed
with megalomania, have dreamed the dream of doing it.
But the very demands of such an office upon one human
organism would be such that the end would be mental
unbalance— the elimination of such ambitious personage
through wear and tear from attendant duties.
Alexander the Great was called the ruler of the world
and sighed for other earths to conquer. It should
be realized that the entire territory subjugated by
Alexander throughout his dramatic lifetime— and called
633
The World— did not embrace an area as big as that por­
tion of the United States situated east of the Mississippi
River i f i}f
Caesar made Rome victorious over the nations in the
immediate vicinity of the Mediterranean, but he ad­
mitted that he could not hold his gains and eventually
died of stabbings at the foot of Pom pey’s column.
Napoleon bethought to overrun Europe and rule it at
his whim. But he conquered a territory no larger than
the United States, and only held it for a length of time
representing the life of a normally healthy dog.
M ussolini does not aspire to rule the universe— that
anyone has heard about— yet he is hailed as Fascist
dictator and absolute ruler over the country known as
Italy. Translated into terms of territory, Italy of Musso­
lini’s dictatorship is about as sizable as the State of
California.
Hitler’s ascendency is hailed as phenomenal, gaining to
control of the mighty German people. He really has no
more territory to “sell,” at this writing, than is repre­
sented by Montana.
Subjugation of these little territorial units for a time
is by no means indication that the Celestial Law of
Racial Diversities has been— or can be— ignored or
overthrown iff t?
634
HE One-Man Ruler, I say, finds himseif
humanly incompetent to fulfil the de­
mands of his office upon his time and
body, so he begins to select subordinates.
These subordinates, forsooth, are at first
petty extensions of himself. But what shall bind these
subordinates together and make them function as an
aligned unit if the ruler in person happens to be absent ?
Right there appears the first faint form of a Constitu­
tion. “W hat socialized governmental notion do I
stand for, among my fellow s?” the ruler asks. Then
he proceeds to answer the question in his program of
fiats for the conduct of his program.
H e may decree a Code of Laws, like Hammurabi. He
may write such a book as My Battle, like Hitler in his
exposition of non-Jewish National Socialism. The
product is the same.
The man as a personage crystallizes himself into the
political idealogy.
The moment that he does this, he has taken the second
step toward abdication and disappearance.
The political idealogy is always a sort of charter creat­
ing a corporation whose life is perpetual and which
may persist long after any of the human agencies
creating it have passed from the earthly scene.
Parties, and Party Rule— as I have said— are natural
evolutions from the natural circumscriptions distin­
guishing absolute rulers in that they are human.
Constitutions are acknowledged transcripts of decrees
635
and acceptances, crystallizing one-man civic receiver­
ships into political idealogies that posterities may
operate J%
r tt*
Looked at in such light, One-Man Rulerships are al­
ways and forever a Phase of a Process.
Inasmuch as no civic bankruptcy can ever be perma­
nent, so no absolute receivership in that bankruptcy
can ever remain enduring. A process is a process be­
cause it is exhibiting elements of Change.
It is because of this premise that no nation— the United
States included— need ever fear a total and permanent
overthrow of its constitutional structure in terms of a
dictatorship. A nation— the United States included—
may become economically prostrate to such a point that
a temporary and arbitrary receiver is necessary. But he
cannot maintain his office because he must proceed to
the integration of delegating his official duties to com ­
panions. A t once these companions, ushered into
spheres of influence, will work like yeast to emasculate
his despotism. The same thing is going on in Russia
at the moment. Hitler is averting it by making his
political idealogy and Party Rule a vitality within his
ow n lifetime.
No matter how good or how bad, how destructive or
constructive, how arbitrary or benevolent, a One-Man
Rulership 'may be, the vast conclave of spirits that fill
up the earth, all with their individualized expositions of
aggressive consciousness, will writhe and squirm and
convulse and fight, till a condition approximating the
636
greatest good to the greatest numbers is arrived at
•I This brings us to m y final consideration: the per­
petual benevolences involved to this end in the system
of civics which I have called the Christian Common­
wealth— and how it differs from these Absolutisms,
Party-isms, and general Constitutionalisms kept in
existence by Chambers of Deputies, not only in America
but all countries abroad.
W hat are the pitfalls and inadequacies involved in all
these pre-discussed systems of governments that the
Commonwealth in a measure serves to defeat ?
THE FORTIETH DISCUSSION
NATI O N S - 1N - L A W
Ay > TH E FORTIETH DISCUSSION i?
HERE is, of course, no perfect
form of government.
Government, considered for
what it is in essence, displays
at all times its ow n perfection,
tj Three men in association, be­
ing volatile and independent
spirit-souls, have three conflict­
ing philosophies as to what their
relationships should be. In any such trio there is a
majority and a minority. The electric instant in which
two of them concur in what shall be their disciplinary
conduct in regard to the fortunes of the third while such
relationship persists— whether it be a voluntary or an
enforced concurrence— in such electric instant Govern­
ment has made its appearance and is perfect in its es­
sence. It may proceed to exercise in any one of a
thousand forms and variations, depending upon the
qualities of consciousness of those to whom it applies, or
their military or economic predicament generally.
Nevertheless, in its pristine meaning and acceptances,
its perfection is automatic by the nature of its exercise.
641
<J It exhibits fundamentally an alignment of minds to
achieve a given attainment, and when we have said
that, w e have said the decalogue.
W hen w e come to consider the variations and aspects
which it takes, what may be its predominating features
for good or evil, how many free spirits under it are
aided and how many injured, then w e proceed to a con­
sideration of jurisdictional policies. W e thereat leave
Government as such, and enter the domain of Politics.
It is unnecessary to develop this thought. W e have
undertaken thirty-nine discussions concerning it al­
ready 5$ ±*
It is Government as government that is good, and
Politics as policies that are comparable as to merits.
Government is the business of bringing Form out of Void
and is the crux of all recognized creation; indeed, w e
recognize creation only as divine government proceed­
ing to its exercise.
642
O it is only the vaporings of uninformed
cosmic youngsters when people here and
there give expression to the thought that
this or that political aspect of Govern­
ment is infallible or flawless in its exer-
cisings and executings upon the human race for some
little moment in humanity’s history.
Always the aspects— that is, the politics— of any Gov­
ernment are transient conditionings of social jurisdic­
tion wrought by the degree to which Spirit has unfolded
as a norm of culture throughout the people concerned as
a whole. This is another w ay of saying that a people
as a rule enjoy just about as good a government as they
deserve, or want maintained over them.
The most benevolent kingly government is not neces­
sarily the perfect government therefore, neither is a con­
stitutional republic like the United States the perfect gov­
ernment. These Patterns for Jurisdiction are exercised
because they happen to fit peculiarly the degree of un-
foldments which the Mass Soul has reached to the mo­
ment, or which serve some cosmic purpose that has to
do with the development of a political or economic arena
for a peculiar class of incarnating spirits presently to
make entrance and who will require for their spiral
progress the profits that will accrue to them for living
within it.
This is what is implied when the statesman cries in im­
passioned speech, “Remember, gentlemen, we are build­
ing for the ages!” It is a pretty phrase but superficial
643
nonsense. There is no such thing as building for the
ages, for the very essence of “the ages” is disintegration,
change, experiment, and exploration.
No statesman— looking back over history— has ever
built for the ages, for the simple reason that each gen­
eration deliberately comes into life to undergo certain
endurances and observations that will enable it to make
its own decidings as to what is best for it in seeking
spiritual unfoldment.
W hat can happen, however, and what does happen, and
what the orator vaguely seeks to express when he talks
about “building for the ages,” is the establishment of
certain fundamentals of ethical or political culture that
seem to have demonstrated themselves as worthy of per­
petuation, so that succeeding generations shall have the
caches of ethical or political wisdom which they repre­
sent, to draw upon in experimenting with their own
forms, departures, innovations and improvements.
A father of wealth may possess three sons. H e may
have it within his economic resource to build a resi­
dence for each lad wherein he shall dwell when he has
reached those years that a family is imminent. What
father in his senses, however, would go out and con­
struct three houses after his own caprices and designs
and expect each boy to be properly grateful to him that
he as father did such work.
No, he would encounter resentment instead.
If the three lads were anything other than morons, they
would exclaim: “It’s kind of dad to be so solicitous, and
644
God bless him, but what he considers ideal architecture
isn’t our notion of a homelike house at all. Besides,
there are our wives. They too want something to say
about the appearance or geography of our several domi­
ciles. In other words, w e want to be left free to express
our own individualities in the appearances of our
houses” is* iS*
And it is so with governments.
On the other hand, a w ise father would certainly say:
“I have lived in many countries and seen much of the
world. I will take up m y residence therefore in such-
and-such a country, that as m y sons are born and grow
along to manhood they m ay be subconsciously molded
in their desires and aspirations by the high ethical stand­
ards of that country and its political opportunities be­
com e available for their embracement. In other words,
out of m y own wisdom I will prepare by artful selection
the arena of social activity in which they shall be in­
ducted into life. But thereafter I will leave them only
m y wealth, permitting them to exercise their own char­
acters in the construction of their domiciles.”
Individualities must be served, whether they manifest in
a rich man’s three sons or in a great people such as the
Germans, the Italians, the Swiss, or the Mexicans.
Arenas of opportunity may be created for posterity but
the opportunities themselves, posterity must shape is*
€J The three sons of the rich man might take up resi­
dence in the three houses so generously provided by the
father as a matter of pleasing the old man or demon-
645
strating their filialty. Most certainly, however, when
the parent w ent discarnate they would quickly call in
the carpenters and masons and have their homes made
over to conform to their caprices.
in these United States have been taught
hK ^ that the Constitutional Republic is more or
f AT
ft3 less the final word in Idealty of Govern­
ment, that there exists nowhere any better
pattern of political jurisdiction than the
so-called American, that by finding it thus set up by the
Fathers and proceeding to enjoy its benefits, w e have
politically outclassed any of the Old World nations, and
that all forms of Government hereafter must approxi­
mate in some degree the civic adherence of our forty-
eight States A* A»
Much of it is merely childhood fixation, and reflex from
tradition extravagantly touted.
The true reason w hy a Constitutional Republic was fore­
ordained for these United States, and w hy for this little
minute in eternity it would seem to be ideal for indi­
vidual development beneath the Bill of Rights, is the
phenomenon of the American nation being a political
coagulation composed of representations from a score of
races or racial extractions, deploying here in this par­
ticular world territory and requiring some form of execu­
tive machinery that should be a facile compromise of all
the past political machineries distinguishing the racials
so composing the populace.
646
‘‘You shall each one of you feel perfectly free to bring
your fixations of One-Man Rulerships, Party Ruler-
ships, Constitutional-Monarchy Rulerships, or what-not,
here as you please,” says the American Political Pro­
posal, “but when it comes to actual civic procedure you
shall encounter the trouble-minimizing machinery of
group representation. Each territorial group shall select
a spokesman and send him to sit in a Congress. This
Chamber of Deputies shall make the laws, and every two
to four years there shall be a change of chamber per­
sonnel— to the end and aim that such personnel does not
become crystallized into that permanence which means
an arbitrary authority expressing the fiats of one group.”
€| W e might view the Constitutional Republic as a Per­
petual Expediency for checkmating the rise of groups
to overweening prominence.
And yet it does more.
The political form of the Constitutional Republic— con­
sidered in purity of exercise— places a personal respon­
sibility upon the private citizen to take a vital interest
in his government and see to it that it maintains to his
advantage, assuring him perpetuity of enjoyment of the
liberties embodied in our Bill of Rights.
W hat actually is in progress?
For the first time in the history of the modern world the
citizens of a country are faced with a responsibility to
govern— albeit vicariously through the ballot— and
thus acquire practical and personal experience with civic
jurisdiction as principals instead of blind obedience to
647
the fiats of a chieftain, no matter how capable, who does
their civic thinking and acting for them.
By actual participation in the business of government,
no matter how indirect or how frail, the citizen’s quality
of social consciousness is being unfolded. H e is ob­
taining the first rudiments of a civic education that shall
one day equip him to be jurisdictional officer in his own
right, whether it be dog-catcher in his current earth-
career or royal potentate in some governmental set-up
among lesser-developed spirits not yet incarnate.
To this end and aim there can be no argument about the
benefits and profits of life under a Constitutional Re­
public as contrasted with life under a tyrant, autocrat,
dictator, party rule, or constitutional monarchy.
W e say that here in America “every man is king.” . . .
Every man, of course, is NOT king— yet!— but every
man is in the w ay of acquiring a personal knowledge of,
and training in, kingcraft. A nd thus does the Jurisdic­
tional Cycle preserve itself by evolving candidates for
its facile exercise, world without end, am en!
648
rr
"IS because the political system known as
the Christian Commonwealth supplies
even a freer exercise for such personalized
experiments in kingcraft, that its progeni­
tors are so zealous in making its provisions
well-known throughout the body-politic.
Today, the work of the founding fathers in regard to the
Constitutional Republic, stands incomplete.
The founding fathers provided a format for the personal
intrusion of the private citizen into the affairs of State,
albeit by representation— that is, through a congress of
agents— that took their authority from the governed jfc*
€| That was a tremendous stride in the right direction,
but it did not stride far enough.
It placed no checks or balances on recalcitrant perform­
ance from those representatives or agents. It ignored
the possibility that those representatives or agents, being
very human men, might become amenable to corruption
or coercion by predatory cliques, and their offices emas­
culated to the w oe of the majority.
The founding fathers evidently took for granted that all
civic leaders in the future, by the very nature of their
prominence, would prove themselves as possessing the
sincerity and integrity— certainly the official capability
— that they were evincing in themselves.
They w ent to definite ends to express the opinion in the
Bill of Rights that the exercise of free speech and a free
press would keep the political structure uncontaminated
by the said corruption or coercion.
649
M
They entertained no suspicions that an economic situa­
tion might be arrived at, whereunder free speech might
depend upon the racial or political whims of a Federal
Communications or Radio Commission, or where a free
press might be harnessed in the necessity for survival by
a catering to the caprices of advertisers who came to be
intimidators of editorial and news columns and arbiters
on what appeared therein.
It never dawned on the imaginations of men like Frank­
lin, Jefferson, and Madison, that a time would arrive in
these United States when raw newsprint stock on which
papers are printed, would— or could— be monopolized
by a predatory clique so that the editor or publisher re­
fusing to accede to its dictates could be deprived of
materials wherewith to publish.
Franklin, Jefferson, or Madison had no means of know­
ing that international news associations would be
evolved, serving with only nominal representation the
leading journals of the whole country, and that if
usurpers or destroyers of this country placed an editorial
censor at the head of the wire service of such associa­
tions, the thinking of a nation might become subverted
to nefarious ends, or the actual destruction of the Re­
public that the usurpers might benefit.
No, free speech and a free press is by no means any
guarantee that government can be kept clean through
their critical offices.
A handful of Asiatic Jews, with their fiat psychologies,
controlling the outstanding department stores of the
650
country, can— nay DO— exert a numbing and ofttimes
subversive control over the whole constitutional scene.
€| The wom en of the nation will not read newspapers
that do not carry news of the bargains announced in the
department-store advertisements. W ithout such woman
patronage to this commercial end, no newspaper can
survive, since it w ill not command a profitable circu­
lation ±v
No matter how strongly an editor or publisher m ay feel
about a racial or political usurpation, his first indication
of criticism will bring a hornet-swarm of insolent Jewish
advertisers into his business department with the open
blackmail threat: “Stop the criticism or forego our
revenue!” £$*
So the advertisers dictate by reaction what the publisher
shall print.
Thus officials are elected to federal office who can be
nominated by the same Jewish clique without fear of
successful newspaper opposition. Once in such office,
such executives are beholden to the interests that has
made their election possible. From that point on, the
same clique can do with the country what it pleases.
A n entire people can be hoodwinked as to what bloc
may be secretly behind the maneuverings of govern­
ment ±$(
I sat one day in the private office of a great midwest
publisher, a man w ho had long been m y intimate friend.
I discussed with him some of the more mischievous as­
pects of our Yiddish usurpation.
651
“Tell the people about it through the medium of a great
journal like yours,” I begged, “and this racial minority
will have their power to alter our government dismissed
at a stroke.”
W ith tears in his eyes this publisher responded: “I
know from my journalistic experience that every word
you’ve been telling me is true. Yet the first expose
article that I ran in m y sheet would bring the cancella­
tion of m y department-store contracts for advertising,
overnight. W ithout such advertising, the wom en of
this city wouldn’t buy m y paper. M y circulation would
vanish in a week. Y ou’re asking that 1deliberately com­
mit commercial suicide. I might as well shut down the
paper at once and go back to m y youthful occupation
of farming.”
“Then what about the future of Am erica?” I asked.
"What truth lies in the slogan on your mast-head: ‘Free,
Aggressive, Independent ?”
My friend shrugged his shoulders.
“I must play the game according to the times. Find
me a w ay to throw the Jews out of the department-store
business and I’ll even make you an offer to write my
editorials. You can go as far as you please with
exposure” tl*
I did not unduly upbraid m y friend. I had been a daily
newspaper publisher for several years myself.
652
ERE then, w e have a condition within our
much-vaunted “free” Republic where no
agency exists— and at present is not per­
mitted— whereby the populace can truly
adjudge its officialdom on merit because
the truth about such 'merit cannot be obtained. O f course
there are other controlling agencies besides department-
store Jews on the loose in America, but taken by and
large, w e have so far succumbed to the control of the
economic that the state without such control exercised
upon its officials is regarded as phenomenon.
A s the yokel exclaimed on hearing the results of a re­
form election: "If something ain’t wrong, ’taint right!”
W e proceed on such philosophy now to our political ter­
ror. Thereat w e wonder w hy a whole nation is suddenly
brought beneath the duress of a stricture, with Hard
Times charted by cycles, and a President unreprimanded
when he dares to say in essence: “No recovery before
reform,”— the reform obviously being the practical
abandonment of the Republic in favor of Jewish soviet­
ism ±jr ±?
Into this miasma of tolerated corruption comes the for­
mat of the Christian Commonwealth, declaring in es­
sence for nothing more nor less than that the ideals of
the founding fathers be completed in their practicings.
€J The Christian Commonwealth, being essentially eco­
nomic as to renovation, and not political, alters merely
the possibilities for venery through economic pressure
on the individual, be he honest newspaper publisher or
653
■ms#
toiling farmer beneath Kansas sun.
It says, “Correct a faulty economic system in wealth’s
distribution and the premise for the use of the nation’s
currency, and political evils cease from sterility. Crime
vanishes because the factors making for crime are erased.
You do not need to overthrow the political forms of the
founding fathers in the slightest. Preserve them and
strengthen them. But alter the practices that viciously
corrupt them.”
In other words, the Christian Commonwealth heals the
malady not with a poultice for the skin but in the blood­
stream of the patient.
It is right and proper, here in this phenomenal nation
in the W est, that spirit-souls now in life should con­
cretely participate in Government. But a faulty and
unprecedented econom ic set-up is counteracting this
participation and truth to tell, America is now pulled
down economically to that bankrupt point— with her
resources so disastrously dissipated— that she cannot go
along manifesting through those constitutional forms
till a Receiver in Bankruptcy who has the correct eco­
nomic format ready for application, conducts her
through a temporary purge.
It is an awesome thing to contemplate, since it evolves
the political and economic status of so many millions of
persons. But necessity knows no sentiment. W e have
needed this period to demonstrate the faults of a too-
free Constitutionalism.
654
!H AT country is governed best which is
governed least. This declaration is by no
means original yet it would be original if
tried out in practice. €| Spirit-souls come
into earth-life, not to be governed but to
learn how to govern. And they learn fastest and most
adroitly what the requirements for successful govern­
ment are, as they are permitted to follow their own de­
vices up to that corral-fence wherein they damage one
another spiritually.
If I were at the head of this nation for a period, despite
the seeming sentimentality of the utterance, these are
the Seven Principles on which I would base m y admin­
istration :
First, Have the forces under my control been admin­
istered this day so that love of humankind for one
another has been enhanced in its broadest aspects ?
Second, Have men learned anything from the function­
ing of government today that has privately ennobled
them?
Third, Have men been taught to stand any straighter
and firmer on their legs, from what I have personally
administered this day, and enticed by example of Great
Public Office to look at each other fearlessly yet
lovingly?
Fourth, Have men had any examples reared before them
of compatibility in administration that will uncon­
sciously motivate the smoother administration of their
private lives?
655
Fifth, Have men seen anything in the future, motivated
by Government, that enhances their prospects and be­
littles their failures?
Sixth, Have men known what it is to suffer today in
experiences, not for other m en’s wraths or concupis­
cences, but for their soul’s profit?
Seventh, Have men been so inspired by Government
today that they are willing to die for one another, yet
live for one another the more prosperously and beauti­
fully?
O NTRAST such a set of stipulations,
honestly and devoutly practiced, with the
awesome binge of lechery, self-seeking,
spoils allotments, and political chicaneries,
that are prevalent in these moments, with
thirteen millions of our citizens out of work, a Congress
appropriating twelve billions of dollars in one session,
a Chief Executive taking $300,000 personal vacations
on the public funds, and all the racial vultures of Europe
swarming here under the license of a controlled State
Department to poison the well-springs of youth and re­
place each native by an alien in his job.
A ny Constitutional Republic that sponsors a system
whereunder such things can be contrivable is of its own
essence an atrocious format in political executiveship i *
•J Naturally, as a matter of Effect from Cause, a change
is on the make.
Lechery forever works its own suicide.
656
It is manifestly impossible, of course, to attempt herein
either a description or interpretation of the Christian
Commonwealth, since its stipulations and enhancements
are elaborately set forth in other volumes. But this
thing is pertinent-—
The gods who rule over upwardly-spiraling mankind are
not petty gods, nor are they serving celestial advance­
ments selfishly. W e must accredit that they exist and
that they are watching the affairs of nations. W hen a
people come to a place that evils alter their governments,
strange prescriptions are forever evinced, making for a
nobler concept of Government as a whole. Strange
Servants of Eternity are ever to hand in flesh to carry
out the merciful recommendations of those who have
come a long w ay with the human race and observed it in
all its phases.
Speaking personally, I have always had faith to believe
that the Constitutional Republic was founded upon this
side of the water to serve an upwardly-ennobling pur­
pose, but that purpose— at the time of the adoption of
the Constitution— was neither fully revealed nor
actualized Jt*
In other words, the founding fathers did not complete
their work, deliberately, that such eventual completion
might be arrived at after a sufficient time had elapsed
for other generations to perceive what constitutionality
meant in purity.
Let us leave the matter there.
W e who are of Enlightenment realize that if w e have the
657
analytical ability to know and recognize these things,
and entertain ideas of completion, it is probably true
that w e likewise have the brevet to serve as Completers
as w e may. It is not a delusion to grandeur but a stern
responsibility wondrously arrived at.
This book, therefore, has kept itself more or less to
analysis and not striven to advance postulates and defi­
nite recommendations. W hat are the facts as w e con­
front them ?— is the premise on which I have proceeded
from the first. Next, do w e understand them compe­
tently in the light of ancient experience and celestial
compensations? 3%t in*
To think is to do.
If w e cannot advance a theory after having the premise
for its necessity shown us, w e are louts indeed. And
humanity, thinking, suffering, hoping, aspiring, is not
made up of louts.
I refuse to believe it, and so should you.
658
THE FORTY-FIRST DISCUSSION
N A T I O N S - IN - L A W
± * THE FORTY-FIRST DISCUSSION 1 *
HUS I come to m y final chapter.
<J Nine years I have taken in
the writing of this book. My
purpose in writing it has not
been political, neither has it
been “practical.” That is to say,
I have had neither the intention
nor desire to trace event liter­
ally or even historically, and
then point the w ay to some sort of private panacea for
the world’s troubles by showing concrete methods by
which a more comprehensive political structure could
be realized or made to serve.
The libraries of the nations are stuffed with such books.
€| No man of sense will attempt to write any book whose
validity and credence must rest on specific event or par­
ticular remedy. Internationality is moving too fast. The
ordnance of Mammon is moving up too swiftly.
Man as a species stands at the cross roads of eternity,
perplexed and bewildered, looking for its guide-posts,
instead of which, down the highways of the future ap­
proach those in Shining Garments who would take him
661
by the hand and personally conduct him up mountain-
paths of valor to summits of rare equity whose encom­
passing vistas are redundant with vineyards.
Man cannot discern the presences of those Resplendant
Ones in his limited vision of the current hour. But can
he, in divine logic, have been mentored thus far along
the Highroad, only to be deserted in this eighth hour of
his progress and left to blunder tragically into unspeak­
able morasses? There are yet several hours to be run
on the time-clock of his cycle. It is in the manifest
nature of the Trend that he is to be everywhere pro­
tected and helped. If this were not so, then mortal
creation is God’s supreme travesty.
Speaking personally again, I began the writing of this
book on a night in May, 1929. 1 am closing its writing
on a noontime in July, 1938. M y original intention was
to classify in m y own mind, by as trenchant analysis as
my mind could command, what might be called the po­
litical Urge of Peoples. W hy has the world’s history
been a long and hectic program of nation rising against
nation and race pitting itself against race? Must it go
on forever? W hat have been the factors making such
of issue and can they be controlled for the attainment
of probity— probity in the morals of nations as well as
of individuals? And out of the writing of this book,
putting these factors on paper and examining them
ruthlessly, I draw certain conclusions. . . .
662
HE human race is not impractical. It is not
subservient to demoralized ideals only as
it is hoodwinked in valorous ideals. It is
not the butt of forces beyond its command
so much as the material out of which God
Him self is fashioning Cosmos in its progressing destinies
and purposes.
God is not whimsical. To play with the human race as
a gesture in caprice would substitute adolescence for
wisdom and caprice for dignity, both of which must be
divine attributes else w hy should w e so revere them in
our day to day intercourse with transient mortality? A®
4J So I find, on the contrary, that while w e are “spirits
clad in veils” we are likewise spirits garbed in unutter­
able majesties. And as such, in our worldly residence,
w e have been graded and classified as to the splendor of
those majesties. Some are more splendorful than others.
Som e wear their majesties as a cloak and others as a
diadem. But both have this in com m on: they are can­
didates for still further honors as their interests shall
appear. They are part and parcel of a celestial galaxy
now circumscribed by social, political, and in a measure
commercial penury, in a world that provides circum­
scription for a purpose that man m ay be able to arrive
consciously at a knowledge of his degrees of progress
in competition with his brothers, century by century
and aeon by aeon.
There is valor in all this. There is W isdom Trans-
cendant that rears to infinity.
663
These things I believe. But I believe still more. I am
persuaded that in the very near future we are going to
see a complete revaluation and reclassification of the
nations. That is to say, peoples are suddenly going to
arise and express themselves as peoples, as component
parts of a great earth-scheme that indicates, so that the
lowest and humblest citizen can discern it, how magnifi­
cently God has provided for the spiritual evolution of
the species, that nothing matters in the final analysis but
the expansion and ennoblement of the individual con­
sciousness, and that even as all humans go to school in
their early years— that they may have presented to them
in a lump-sum most of the findings of society to date
that they may best serve the individual conscience— so
this human race entoto has been, and ever will be, at­
tending on a curriculum for a like purpose and profit.
To try to subvert or avoid such decree is to bother the
Alm ighty in His bequests of munificence, and benefic­
ence toward man as a reasoning species.
These conclusions, I submit further, cannot be philo­
sophical necromancies.
Since the composition of this book began I have seen a
great spiritual renovation in matters of theology take
root in this nation— meaning specifically the Liberation
instruction based on similar tenets in the fields of re­
ligious intellectualism.
Since the composition of this book was started, I have
seen a vast enlightenment begin to spread from Maine
to California in regard to the true essence and respon-
664
sibility for political subversions. This too has cropped
out in practical maneuverings. The Silvershirts, which
I humbly have the honor to head, have already bm m r
a power in the land, pledged to a consummation of these
ideals and principles in the body politic. Great recalci­
trant interests have summoned their might against me
personally. The Congress of the United States has even
been employed to counteract m y teachings, to bring
ignom iny upon m y person and prestige that deaf ears
might be turned to m y expressions of ideals for the pro­
gressive enhancement of m y brethren in predicament.
The great State of North Carolina and its legal machin­
ery was commandeered by misrepresentation and sub­
terfuge to descend upon m y properties and indict me for
felony, that I might be silenced, principally because of
m y personal admiration for, and moral support of, that
great and wise man who at the present writing domi­
nates the German nation and has caused it to take the
first step toward the accomplishment of those aims that
appeal to me as strongly as a political philosopher.
These things cannot be without significance.
W e are going somewhere as a nation, w e are progress­
ing stupendously as an Aryan culture, w e are linked by
indissolvable bonds with those who champion the in­
tegrity of peoples and the pure breeding of races as a
Cosmic Fiat, everywhere. A nd all of it implies the most
sacred obligation, both as individuals and as nationals,
to keep faith with the Immortals, to finish the splendor­
ful work so astutely begun by those w e term the fathers,
665
that we may all of us gather together around a hearth­
stone in our true Homeland in the twilight of some far-
off celestial day and sense the beauties of accomplish­
ment in a mutual endeavor that has perfected a frater­
nity to endure unto the aeons.
True, we may not all of us sense our reliabilities equally
in that hour, but the sharings of our enhancements from
mutual progress shall be eternal, and only the God of
Things as They Are shall be the final arbiter as to wheth­
er we have succeeded or have failed.
With Him the decision rests, and we should be content
that it is so. . . .
I treat with the matter in no political sentimentality
when I say again that America as a nation has her
destiny to fill, and by the grace of that Supreme Arbiter,
she shall fill it, and we shall be the immortal instruments
of that splendid dispensation.
W e have come a long way, all of us, since first we vol­
unteered to undertake this mission. W e have seen many
kinds of law given to the hand of the human race, and
have contributed to its administering. We shall con­
tinue so to do. But we have seen subversions accom­
plished. Again and again we have foreborne “to hear
the truth we have spoken twisted by knaves to make a
trap for fools” . . . what matters it? The Eternal Dis­
pensation marches on indubitably. Many little men,
hordes of Dark Souls, each bother God as He legislates
with cummulative wisdoms for our maximum divinity.
Shall we say that we have failed, or are failing, because
666
temporary arrestments have availed in our progress? It
cannot be failure when the Father of A ll Conscience be-
sits Himself in judgment on the most irresolute of these.
Creation is not a travesty. W e are Sons of the Im­
mortals and it doth not yet appear what w e may be.
There is alchemy in that!
'I m y book “No More Hunger” I tried to
paint the picture of an economic State
where the bugbear of economic duress
should be forever laid, without in any sense
degrading the private and personal urge
toward maximum achievement. In “Nations-in-Law”
I have sought to carry m y thinking at least one rung
higher up the Ladder of Circumstance, and project for
the consideration of sober-minded individualists what
the causes and reasons may be for this vaster depression
— and its alleviation— in the economics of practical poli­
tics Ayr
Mayhap I have succeeded.
Perhaps I have failed. Perchance I shall be as bitterly
misunderstood and misrepresented in this work as in the
other. No m atter!
It is forever posterity who decides on such accomplish-
ings. “Thinking out of turn” is but a mortal misde­
meanor. Thinking a score, or a hundred years in ad­
vance of one’s times ever courts injustice for him who
would reason and thus attempt enoblement for those
who reason not.
667
W e are at least coming to a m ighty crossroads in eterni­
ty, and the nations from that point onward must travel
resplendantly in company, no longer as stragglers
whom the w olves and robbers of the Eternal Highroad
drag down ingloriously in that they straggle.
This is m y attestment: that the God of Battles may not
necessarily be the Dark God of Slaughter. The nations
are out upon the Highroad, m y own nation that I have
the honor to serve being the youngest and therefore the
most virile of the Marchers. Together w e press onward
toward the outposts of civilization where the hosts of
Armageddon await us, to try our strength and test our
valor. But w e are not fearful and w e do not drag our­
selves in chains as blind slaves whipped onward toward
a shambles. W e are soldiers with upturned faces and
brilliant banners catching the sunlight. And militant
above us rears the majestic stature of our Commander-
in-Chief who puts in the lips of all nationals the battlecry:
“Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good
to them that hate you, and pray for them that despiteful-
ly use you and persecute you . . . that you m ay be the
children of your Father who is in heaven, who maketh
His sun to rise upon the good and evil and sendeth His
rain on the just and unjust. Be you therefore perfect,
even as your Father who is in heaven is perfect.”
The nations are the princelings. In all law w e are
brethren. Those are Sent who command us.
God grant w e keep faith!
FINIS
668
SO Y O U A R R IV E A T THE END OF TH E TWO
VOLUM ES NAM ED NATIONS-IN-LAW WRITTEN
BY WILLIAM DUDLEY PELLEY FOR THE LIBER­
ATION AUDIENCE A N D DONE INTO TWIN
BOOKS BY TH E PELLEY PUBLISHERS WHOSE
A DDRESS IN TH E SUM M ER OF NINETEEN
HUNDRED A N D THIRTY-EIGHT IS BO X SEV­
ENTEEN H UNDRED A N D SEVENTY-SIX IN TH E
CITY OF ASHEVILLE IN TH E STA TE OF NORTH
CAROLINA, UNITED STATES OF AM ERICA
669
