{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__pelley___reds_are_upon_us.pdf","mytitle":"Reds Are Upon Us","mylang":"de"}
*
The Reds Are upon Us
The First Council
OU are toeing’ brought (into
these Councils of Safety to
prepare you for intelligent
and constructive work in the
.Posts or Chapels of The Sil­
ver Legion. These Home
Councils, in other words, are meant to tutor
you in exactly what the Silver Legion is,
what it proposes to accomplish, and by what
fundamental policies it would shape its des­
tinies,
It is not enough that there should he an
organization like the Silver Legion abroad
in the land today, when all our Christian-
American institutions are threatened, and
that people of integrity should aspire to be­
long to it.
Such people must know exactly what the
1
problem is, that the Silver Legion is called
upon to solve, what specific duties are ex­
pected of each member, and how all the
members— actang togatl1
or—pdcsunie to
wield an influence that shall not only save
the United States from a Communist blood-
glut but introduce a better economic sys­
tem which forever prevents this present era
of distress from being inflicted upon us
again.
We should all of us recognize, first and fore­
most, that we are not solely concerned with
checkmating the revolutionary agents who
are amongst us today. Along with arresting
the spread of Communism, we are also in­
terested in introducing an economic sys­
tem that shall, by its own recommendations,
automatically install safeguards against a
repetition of this distress.
The system itself, which we recommend,
must contain features that henceforth pre­
vent these unhallowed influences from ever
again gaining to power.
We are gathered here, therefore, in a sort
of adult kindergarten, to acquaint ourselves
with the fundamental policies of the Silver
Legion, and take note of the elementary and
practical steps required to outwit the Repub­
lic's present enemies, and then, in each meet-
2
ing that we hold together, consider as
well what the alternative and constructive
steps may be for installing measures that
make any repetition of this national distress
as impossible as it shall he unnecessary.
Now then, there are certain fundamentals
that we must all he acquainted with, con­
cerning membership in the Silver Legion,
and we are going to hold eight more of
these meetings to learn of them. We are
going to conduct these gatherings on a sort
of questionnaire basis. All of us are going
to participate, and when we have considered
the questions and answers of the session, and
checked our own ideas and responses with
those that Chief Pelley has set forth for us,
we are going to proceed to a general discus­
sion of what has been presented for our
special remembering when we get into Posts
or Chapels.
,y ,HE FIRST Council, we should recog-
*
*
• nize at the start, concerns the Red per­
sonnel at present directing Communistic
advances here in America. These are not
always known to us. Neither do we always
recognize what agencies are pro-Commun-
istic and which are not. We are inclined
3
consequently to discount a menace which
is very real.
First, therefore, suppose we consider just
how many Reds, or pro-Bolshevik persons,
there are here in America. Furthermore,
do we always grasp how well the true pro­
moters of Communism are camouflaged?
This is a terribly important point.
A lot of us are inclined to think that all the
Communistic activity which threatens our
nation is more or less confined to those per­
sons and organizations directly associated
with—that is, openly connected with—the
Communist Party.
What Chief Pelley wants us to get firmly
fixed in our minds from the very beginning
is: only an insignificant fraction of the real
Communist work being carried on in A meri­
ca is openly and shamelessly stamped with
the insignia of Communism.
The truly dangerous expedients of Com­
munism and Communists are camouflaged
behind a hundred-aud-one persons, move­
ments, and organizations, that our unen­
lightened fellow-countrymen never suspect
from year’s end to year’s end.
We who aspire to be adept and effective
Silvershirts must have at all times in the
forefront of our thinking, that the most dan-
4
gerous movements of Communism—the
movements we should really be alarmed at
—display not the slightest public associa­
tion or hook-up with Communism as a politi­
cal Party, or even as a fighting unit opposed
to the form of government which we know
as a Constitutional Republic.
Because this is so, the Communists put forth
their Party as being a small and insignifi­
cant minority. They have this Party as a
“front”, out in the open, for the enemies of
Communism to castigate and shoot at. But
at the same time, the real work is done with­
in the ranks of a thousand organizations
that aren’t suspected as being “Red” the year
around . By effecting to keep this nominal
Communistic Party insignificant, the true
Communists lull the average Gentile into a
false security. The Gentile says to himself:
“There are, by known public count, less than
a hundred registered Communists right here
in my home city, so why should I get ex­
cited about a number so silly?’1 That is pre­
cisely why the Communist Party is out in
the open on one hand—to make the average
Gentile think there is really nothing to the
Communist Party sizable enough to get ex­
cited about. The real work of Commun­
ism is being promoted in such a way that
5
;2SBS£3i»tasesaQa«ssae^^ the gullible Christian-American never sins­
pects that he is being made the victim of it.
Consider, for instance, ourselves . ,
How many of us have any positive ideas on
how many Communists, or Communisti-
cally-inclined persons, there are here in the
United States, right at this moment?
I am supposed to put this question to you
and get your responses—
THE SPONSOR will pause here ami get
each attendant of the Council to hazard his
estimate of the number of Communist-
endorsing people there arc today unthin the
United States.. Then he will resume—
Pelley’s personal estimate is, that
^ there are something like 22 million—
a one-fifth our whole population!
That means one person in every five is either
secretly approving of, or “falling for/’ ex­
pedients and measures that in the end would
do away with our Constitutional Republic,
Let us see how the Chief arrives at his fig­
ures—
After researching in the matter for ten or
more years, he finds that first of all we must
take our total Jewish population into account,
Our lavish population constitutes the main
6
backbone of Commamism^secretly or in the
j open! And the reason why the Jewish
; population of our country constitutes the
j main backbone of Communism is: Every
Jewish person in America, by the very fact
of being Jewish, is directly or indirectly un­
der the control of his rabbi. And rabbis as
a religious oligarchy are all for Communism
| because in Communism’s practical applica­
tion, it exterminates by mass murder or by
; starvation all those who are believers in the
Christian religion. With all believers in the
; Christian religion exterminated, Judaism—
; which the rabbis represent—(automatically
becomes the prevailing and triumphant re­
ligion throughout the world. So the rabbis
t not only believe in Communism but are the
! most zealous workers to see that it comes in.
;
C
E In other words, Communism does their
dirty work for them and leaves them the
prevailing clergy as they are at the present
i moment in Russia, Therefore, as every Jew
—male, female, or youth—must do as his
; rabbi tells him, and as his rabbi tells him
that Communism will finally exterminate the
j hated Christians and the Christian religion,
I all of us must consider each Jew to be a
I moral supporter of Communism, even
7
though he does not seem to be openly a Com­
munist himself.
Now then, arguing from this basis, there arc
said to be four million, four hundred and
fifty thousand Jews in the United States.
The Jews themselves acknowledge that this
is so.
But here is the thing that Gentiles are not
aware of; Jews reckon population only by
males who have reached their majority!
Anyone who is familiar with census statistics
admits that there are four women and minor
children for every adult male in this country.
So to get accurately at the number of per­
sons of Jewish extraction under domineer­
ing control of the Communistic rabbis
throughout the whole United States, we
must multiply the number of male Jews—•
as they acknowledge it—by five. Multiply­
ing 4,450,000 by 5 in this instance gives us
1 grand total of 22 million, 250 thousand
Jewish people—which is nearly 20 percent
of our whole population.
These people all want Communism brought
in here, and are willing to work for it, lie-
cause they have been “sold” by their rabbis
that it is an excellent thing and means the
ultimate and final emancipation of the Jew
from the supervision of the Gentile,
8
Of course Jewish babies-in-arms aren’t Com­
munists, but to counter-balance the Jewish
babies we have the numbers of Gentiles who
have let themselves he persuaded that Com­
munism is a very fine economic system in­
deed. So Chief Pelley’s estimate of 22 mil­
lions isn’t so scatterbrained as we might
think when first we hear about it.
Because this is so, Chief Pelley is vehement
in his activities against the Jews as a race.
People who never expect to be Silvershirts
don’t know these facts and figures, and scoff
at them. So we who are given the informa­
tion should consider ourselves as a quota of
the American population set apart. We do
know these things, and when hoodwinked
people, or ignoramuses, or dupes of the
Communist-Jews, challenge them, it is not
our jobs to go to the mat with them or en­
gage in arguments or fights. We should
rather, on the other hand, simply shape our
own activities in the light of our knowledge
and be prepared when the time comes to
strike directly at the heart of the whole racial
conspiracy.
Tire Jewish rabbis are the great promoters
of Communism in the United States—and
we should understand clearly why they
are so.
9
Which brings up this important point; How
many Jewish rabbis do we imagine there are,
in this gigantic country ?
The Sponsor mil here put the question to his
Councillors. Then he unit correct them,
Chief Pelley solemnly advises ns that there
are something like two million persons con­
nected with the officialdom of the Jewish
church in America, or the fraternal organi­
zations under the direct supervision or rab­
bis, or one-tenth the whole Jewish popula­
tion! Wherever there is a synagogue, there
may be a Communist cell of the most poison­
ous variety.
The Jews from the times of Abraham have
ever dedicated their first-born sons to the
service of the synagogue. If they don’t get
in as priests or rabbis, they get in as cantors,
or officials in B’nai B’rith, the great inter­
national Jewish espionage organization.
At least a tenth of the Jewish population,
therefore, is assiduously engaged in pro­
moting the religious designs of Judasim—
and every mother’s son of them committed
to the fundamental principles of Commu­
nism, because Communism is Judah in po­
litical and industrial action, tending to ex-
10
terminate Christians and leaving Judah su­
preme as the world’s one religion.
That’s the way we must regard the matter,
if we are to make any real progress in com­
bating* Communism and putting it perma­
nently out of the way.
When we say, therefore, that the Reds are
upon uSj we mean that Jews have every­
where gotten into our Christian-Gentile in­
stitutions and by their presences there, are
deftly ancl adroitly infiltrating them with
their principles of “democracy1
’ and “broth­
erhood”— which in the last analysis are only
bait for winning the support of gullible Gen­
tiles to Communism—-Gentiles who haven’t
a suspicion in the world as to what the fracas
is all about.
■We are not against the Jews as a people, but
because they are slaves and serfs beneath the
control of their rabbinate. And that rab­
binate wants to see Communism come in and
close alt Christian churches. , Because the
Jewish people support and sustain their rab­
binate that stands for such extinction, we
have to look upon every Jew as a worker for
Communism.
This is the Silvershirt viewpoint, which
makes the Jews furious. No other force of
vigilantes throughout all America today,
11
lakes this unique position. And because they
take this unique position, and the Jew and
his rabbi are trapped and found out in the
course of such procedure, the Jews and their
rabbinate continually gnash their teeth at
the Silvershirts.
The Jews shout “Racial persecution!” and
“Religious intolerance!” but it isn’t such at
all. The Silvershirt has simply penetrated
to the heart of this rabbinical control and
promotion of Communism, and the average
Jew is beside himself with fury that the
Silvershirt has become “wise” to the whole
of it. The Jew, through his rabbi, thought
he had the business all nicely secreted and
covered up, but the Silvershirt came along
and made a mess of the secrecy.
So the average rabbi will grow purple in
the face when Pelley’s name, or the word
“Silvershirt” is mentioned.
“Those are people who exposed us!” is the
thought that permeates the Jews’ mind—and
in the exact ratio that this exposure is kept
up, and made a continuing reality, the Jew
and his scheming rabbi are checkmated and
outwitted. . . .
T
VTOW let’s try some test questions, to see
just how wise each of us is ,in this Jew-
12
ish rabbinical scheme that the Silvershirts
are knocking “haywire.” . . . If we were
asked to name off-hand the greatest Com­
munist in America, who would we say that
he is?
The Sponsor will here get the answers of
each member of his group. . . .
CCORDING to Chief Pelley, the great­
est Communist in America i s ..............
Does it startle us to have the Chief tell us
that? Then we have the right to know why
Chief Pelley thinks so.
Chief Pelley thinks so, because he has rea­
son to suspect that in .................... hehas
singled out the person who has the most
official influence in directing the ultimate
success of the Jewish forces that lead to
Communism as it comes to actual perform­
ance behind and through the highest agencies
of government—in the Federal sense—that
we have operating at the present moment.
<1 Not so many years hence, this Jew wrote
a book called............................................
He dklnT solve the Jewish Problem, of
course, or make any attempt to solve it.
What he did do was to pass out word among
all the Jews that they were a race divinely
ordained to rule all the other races of the
13
world and that they coaid gain to such posi­
tion by artful and subversive organization,
carrying', into effect the principles and tenets
that were essentially Communistic in char­
acter and that would ultimately so break the
morale of the Gentiles that they would be
the serf race in this world henceforth.
Chief Pelley wants us to get it through our
heads, and make it a part of our daily think­
ing, that the real individuals promoting Com­
munism most successfullv in this land are
never seen on soap boxes, never found mak­
ing speeches, never caught conspiring in
dank cellars against the government. They
are the so-called “big” Jews, who from their
places of sacrosanct responsibility can
shape the policies of government and eco­
nomics that lead straight into Communism
—and never be suspected that they have had
such hand in doing' so at all.
That’s w here.....................shines.
Sitting in one of the most powerful places on
the Supreme Court, he can deftly influence
those decisions that would make or break
the economic course of the nation.
He keeps his finger on the pulse of all Jew­
ish activities,. counsels and directs them
through a host of satellites, and during the
World War was the Jew in “command of
1 4
the White House/’ or the executive branch
of our government Nothing goes on-in
Jewry that he doesn’t know about, and be­
cause of his age and position, he exerts a
sort of ex-officio influence toward ail those
agencies that are engaged in breaking down
the Christian idea, of things; and substituting
the Jewish notion. , ^ my?.
He is the greatest Communist in America
because from his position he exerts the great­
est influence leading directly into Commu­
nism—as the fate for the whole American
people, Jew and Gentile alike. All the lesser
Jews go to him as. dean, to obtain his ideas
on this or that Probably sixty percent of
the truly influential Jews in the present ad­
ministration at some time or other have been
his “proteges.” A pppmh
And yet, from his exalted position, he keeps
out of the limelight, out of criticism, and
only the; Silvershirts refuse to be hood­
winked or deceived? by the function which
he fills in the whole great Judaistic scheme
to smash the constitutional form of govern­
ment and supplant it with an arbitrary, ty­
rannical Yiddisher High^Priesffiood/ r
Now who do you think is the second most
powerful Jew in all the federal skullduggery
that is going on at present? . . :
The Sponsor wiU get the answers, encour­
age a discussion at this point, ami then
proceed—
Chief Pelley takes the position that the
second most powerful Jew i s .................. .
because he seems to he the man who carries
out the policies which Big Yiddisher No.
One concocts or okays.
lie is the man who trains and supplies all the
smart Jewish officials who are put in to sur­
round the President and control his policies
and decisions. They write his speeches for
him—which of course become the foreign
and internal policies for this whole Amer­
ican nation—tell him what papers to sign
and what not to sign, when to go on his
notorious fishing trips, whom to see in the
way of government officials, and whom to
bar from White 'House interviews.
By controlling the head of the nation thus*
this Jew, under Jew Number One, controls
the nation itself, or at least the fortunes of
the nation day by clay.
Now what are the conjectures of this group
as to the third most powerful Red in this
country?
The Sponsor will obtain an expression out
16
of each Councillor and then 1correct the
t
wrong answers'thus: : ’
f;*
'JP'■
;
Chief Pelley considers the third most power­
ful Red in this nation to be Rabbi ; , . ,'.V.
And the reason why' Chief -Pelley considers
him to be the third most powerful Red is not
clue to his open connections with Cdrntfiunisi
organizations or propaganda newspapers but
becausethe’ enjoys a position in American
Jewry too:- little;;suspected^ by1Gentiles geih
erally. 1 -
r> *-
1 ‘*
• /•1ku:
Never mind' what1your Jewish friends in
the clothing business Here in your city may
say to the contrary, ;aM no matter how they
scoff at the suggestion-; the fact remains that
various forms of intercepted dispatches be­
tween great Jews •on both sides of tire At­
lantic have revealed that this1
Rabbi J.myv
is considered the official rabbinical spokes*
man for Jewry as a racial bloc: in America.
C This doesn’t mean necessarily that lie is
any head of the 'Jewish Church, for there's
no such thing as a Jewish \Church, as the
Christians have great church organizations.
It means that the great and deadly group of
“higher-up” ’Jews who arc trying to make
themselves the real Hidden* Empire behind
all governments, -and who^ underwrite an cl
- I f7
use Communism as the weapon to gain their
ends by letting the so-called proletariat do
the fighting for them, appear to use this
Rabbi .. . .a....... as official spokesman to
American Jewry,
What this big rabbi pronounces, either from
his powerful pulpit, or through his writings
in Communist publications or in ordinary
newspaper interviews, can be taken as the
stand, or attitude, of Jewry as Jewry on this
growing racial situation. He might be con-
sidered a sort of head Liaison Officer for the
'foreign Jews who have set out to seize
America and make the character of its final
government Yiddisher Communism.
We can generally accept that this rabbi’s
word on this or that is the word that gives
the proper cues on international Jewish
policy to all the other rabbis back in the in­
terior of the nation.
If the Sponsor so desires here, he can pause
to take up with his Councillors this Rabbi's
Communistic pedigree, which can be ob­
tained by having a copy of Mrs, Dilliiig's
Red Network at hand} or perhaps the Spon­
sor may have recollection of the Rabbi's ac­
tivities as they havelbeen set forth from time
to time in Liberation. Always encourage the
18
Councillors to tell what each one of them
may knozo about these big Jewish Reds, //
tests them on their own learning in '■this
great Conspiracy and imparts information
which some group members may not have
heard about.
Now in compiling this list of the leading
Jewish Communists who have already
moved in amongst us and taken over' our
government without the average American
suspecting it, who would you say was the
fourth personage in importance ?
. ■ . ■ ■. O K ? •
Take the responses and then make this cor­
rection, if necessary—
Believe it or not, Silver Legion heads con­
sider the fourth most important%idivt;
einal
to be, not John Li Lewis,' or Madam Per-
kins, or Earl Browder, or H arry;Bridges,
but none other than . Mhh. .,. ., And here
may be another surprise for some of you! ,:
( ' I .• ttr . ''I .1 i.. ' "W1
It is not from t
his anti-Nazi
heads so list hii
No! It is because they are coming to sus­
pect from a knowledge of his activities
which the public* never knows about, that he
his man’s official position, or
activities, that the Legion
f r. ; i $
'
is unofficially the head of the great OGPCJ
Spy System that has been already set up here
in America to circumvent real patriotic ac­
complishments.
Understand this correctly, however. There
are thousands of Jews in America who don’t
like him—who, in fact, consider his behavior
before the public as one of the gravest
menaces that all American Jewry confronts.
Sooner or later, they see clearly, this par­
ticular Jew will probably be the cause of a
frightful pogrom here in the United States.
Cl Deep in behind the scenes of all the inter­
national skullduggery that’s going in, none
the less, Chief Pclley and his associates are
recognizing that Jew No. 4 holds a more
important place than merely being an official
who sponsors investigations against Jewish
defamation 1
From his position lie is in a place where he
can practically command our consuls abroad
to okay and pass into this country whatever
big Communist Jews it is necessary for the
world plotters to have come here.
Next, he is in a position through his office
to obtain inside information on American
citizens that should be kept as confidential
data only to the government as a govern­
ment, and pass it along where the
20
Control of the great Yiddish Plot can take
note of it. Probably no Red Jew in America
is more powerfully placed. He renders null
and void the immigation laws and the ban
on undesirable persons.
The dishonest watchman in a bank, who sup­
plied confederates outside with the keys by
which they could get in secretly to loot the
institution would be considered a most im­
portant personage to the bank-robbing, don't
you think?
So we should draw our own conclusions as
to this Jew’s importance as fourth on the
list. Now how about the fifth?
Again a discussion*—in regard to No, 4fs
potentialities for aiding1
the Red Plot or what
Council members may know of his local
activities and hook-ups. Then—■
Chief Pelley holds the fifth most influential
promoter of the Red program in America to
be .................... Naturally he is important
because of his influence over the nation’s
bank account. Pie not only has control over
the banking condition throughout the nation,
the allocation of Relief Funds, the solvency
* «•
or insolvency of the funds behind the vari
ous bond issues, but most mischievous of all
21
over the various Stabilization Funds*—with­
out the slightest check upon him—he can
transfer by one device or another immense
sums of money to whatever foreign govern­
ment he pleases, on the excuse that such
transfers “stabilize”' our own currency sys­
tem and economic structure.
For instance, right today in America, with
millions jobless and starving, Chief Pelley
is convinced that this big Jew is finding ways
to get the fiends of the American people to
the Chinese Reds in prodigious amounts— -
thus aiding Stalin in the Far East and com­
plicating our Treasury in international Red
maneuvers abroad.
ERE then, are the five personages whose
actions and daily conduct in their respec­
tive positions give them vaster influence in
furthering the forthcoming alteration in our
form of government than all the Lewises,
Bridges, Browders, and Baldwins wrapped
together as one bale of gun cotton. . And
yet because of the lofty official positions
they have contrived to get into, they are
generally i|mmune from suspicion, accusa­
tions, or ordinary reprisals meted out to the
poor dupes—Jew as well as Gentile—who
22
direct the vsit-down striking, the labor ‘'set­
tlements,” and all the rest of the spectacular
aggression that tlte poor dumb public gen­
erally connects with Communism.
Some of you may wonder how Chief Policy
feels about the Lewises, the: Perkinses, the
LaLollcttes, and a hundred other operatives
who are coming* to he openly branded as
radical executives. The answer is, that if
the Big International Gang withdrew its sup­
port from the latter types of radicals, the
radical movement in America wouldn't last
a week.
Big as some of the other people are, they are
all merely obedient servants of more influen­
tial schemers who pull the strings from be­
hind the immunities of their respectable posi­
tions, and let the lesser personages take the
public criticism and the penalties in ease
anything goes haywire in the whole Dark
Program.
nPHK SILVER LEGION takes the pusi-
^ tion that the Reds are amongst us al­
ready because the foregoing, and a score of
personages like them, are securely ensconced
in government, and daily and hourly are
steering the fortunes of over a hundred
million Americans straight toward the final
23
w
turn-over In favor of Communism—while
down through the ranks of Jewry are the
twenty million small-fry in every city, town,
precinct, and neighborhood in the nation,
sympathetically pushing forward what these
mightier schemers at the top are originating.
<[ So one of the first things, that the Legion
seeks to brand into the consciousness of its
members at the very start of their connec­
tion with the Silvershirts, is the absolute
futility of the notion that demonstrations
against the small-fry accomplish anything
that is permanent or worth its shot in the
final summing-up.
Thousands of disgruntled Gentiles continu­
ally-suggest-going-out and raising the mis­
chief with Jews or subversive workers in
Tieir own localities. If they can “put-the
ear of God” into the corner tailor, or the
ead of the local auto finance company, they
maginc they would be helping to solve the
Red-Jewish question.
This is not only the height of silliness, but
the dangerous part of it is that such is pre­
cisely what the Big Boys would like to see
happen.
Violence and rioting against the little Reds
or the rank and file of local Jews, only re­
acts in the public, mind as .racial intolerance
24
or un-American activity against the rights
of free speech and free assembly.
In other words, if the Silvershirts should
show themselves so stupid as to go to the
mat with corner clothiers and pawnbrokers
—or even mix it up generally with local Red
demonstrators—the Big Boys would im m e­
diately capitalize on it to work up sentiment
for the under-dogs along lines of “Persecu­
tion in this ‘democracy1isn't American/’
This is one reason why it will be a long*
time yet before the heads of the Legion will
permit the national members to stage demon­
strations in their own right, or will encour­
age any threats toward violence against in­
dividuals, no matter how mischievous or
subversive their activities might be.
Ciiief Pelley and his aides are not walking
into that trap, nor letting the cohorts under
them walk into it, either.
Why raise up sales resistance for the purg­
ing program, by going after the corner tailor
or the local pawnbroker, when there would
immediately be twenty million of his breed
to take his place and cause the job to need
doing* all over again every twenty-four
hours ?
25
No, what the Silvershirts propose doing
is turning the white light of pitiless ex­
posure on the Big Boys and their
schemes at the top!
The Silvershirts would strike down the effi­
ciency of such leadership at the top, and
leave these twenty-two million workers for
Jewish sovietism without executive direc­
tion.
A lot of unlearned rattle-pates declare from
time to time: If this is a sort of grim war,
why isn’t it justifiable to send someone to
assassinate these Big Shots and have done
with the whole of it?
Chief Pelley answers vigorously: Because
for every personage who might be so liqui­
dated, there are probably a hundred candi­
dates just as efficient, waiting to step into
his place.
A few individuals might get popped off, and
leave holes in the structure behind them. But
public sentiment would immediately react.
There would be a wave of unfavorable cen­
sure, and fear of where such Direct Action
could lead.
Besides—as Hitler has demonstrated so clev­
erly—while the little Jew may fear personal
violence most, the permanent victory is the
26
victory based on installation of a system un­
der which these mischievous practices can be
easily recognized and henceforth made im­
possible.
O, the Big Boys—either abroad or right
here in the United States—don’t espe­
cially fear violence, which they think they
can put down through the police and mili­
tary forces that they control, and later cap­
italize upon to make them stronger in their
positions than ever.
The things the Big Boys fear are a complete
and devastating exposure of their personal
identities and secret subversive hook-ups, and
a general public recognition of their atro­
cious program that will serve to swing pub­
lic sentiment away from them as officials
and put it squarely behind a nation-wide
Gentile leader who can vanquish what they
stand for, and send them to prison as a caste.
<[ In other words, they fear most the thing
that actually has happened in Italy, Ger­
many, Austria, and Spain.
They are secretly panic-stricken at a shift
in public allegiance—or rather, public senti­
ment—away from them, due to a devastat­
ing public enlightenment, and a tidal-wave
of moral support going to the man or men
27
whom they can neither control nor hood­
wink.
NOW when you get into your Silvershirt
Post or Chapel finally, yon will know
that each of these does have certain thing's to
accomplish locally, that could not be accom­
plished by individuals running around sep­
arately. But because your leaders recognize
the silly futility of taking direct action lo­
cally against the small-fry or lunatic fringe
in your community, you will be asked to re­
strain yourself from playing exactly the
game that the Big Reds would like to see you
play. Putting up physical opposition to them
so that they can gain publicity for themselves
as the proletariat being “martyred” for their
principles. '
The way to fix the thing is for thousands of
small groups—be they Councils, Posts, Chap­
els, or what-not>—to coagulate together and
form a great organized and enlightened
background of representative citizens in each
locality, whose job and function it is to fur­
nish information and financial underwriting
for an intelligent and well-directed attack on
the official positions of secret Reel promoters
at the top!
Next, thousands of such groups so brought
28
together are local cells for coaxing public
opinion into favorable support of one leader
who in his person, or in the' pursuit of his
avowed program, shall change the system
officially and bloodlessly so that it offers no
chance for a return of the scoundrels or a
repetition of their skullduggeries.
When this is brought to pass—or rather, as
it is brought to pass—.something of lasting
and constructive value is accomplished.
These Posts and Chapels organize efficiently
the work of such public enlightenment and
public moral support.
They make each member feel, in going about
and doing his share, that in a manner of
speaking “he has his gang behind him'1 . , .
But this is not the most important thing.
Tlie most important thing about having such
enlightened constructionists grouped into
well-knit Posts and Chapels, is that when
such a leader finally comes to national recog­
nition, such local organizations serve as the
representative groups for his principles and
program locally, just as lie represents it na­
tionally, If, as, and when a change comes,
and the Red Crowd is discounted and cast-
out, there must be machinery all ready set
up to take direction of the liner and more
wholesome order of things and lead the per-'
29
plexed and distressed masses in each locality.
<1 That is wh)r it is so essential for each
prospective member to recognize the Nine
Fundamentals of the Silvershirt Movement,
embodied in these Nine Safety Council pro­
grams.
The Silvershirts are .strictly interested in
unseating the present mischief-working
rascals aidthe top in Federal affairs, not
in getting down into lickpenny brawls
with individuals in a city, town, or
neighborhood.
Prospective Post and Chapel members should
know this and respect it so adequately that
no member of a Post or Chapel shall ever
get up later, no matter what the contingency,
and without orders from the Chief—which,
should they come, will always be carefully
explained—advocate sallying forth and ex­
ecuting reprisals on individuals.
If Chief Pelley, or his responsible aides,
should ever order a demonstration of any
kind, it will be because it aligns and cements
something he is doing to unseat these great
mischief-makers at the top, or because a na­
tional emergency exists where legitimate
vigilante action is a matter of constructive
self-preservation.
30
1I.X ) sum up, let each and everyone of us
understand thoroughly that the Posts
and Chapels of the Silver Legion exist to
hack up locally the great purgative work
which the leaders of the organization are
striving to do nationally ; to furnish the
national leaders with moral support and
money on the one hand for such contests
as they start in Washington, D. C, and to
popularize on the other hand, in the minds
of an unenlightened and misguided public,
exactly what clean-minded citizens have to
gain by supporting the Silvershirts1leaders.
Never mind how the little Jews scoff at this.
No matter how local Reds charge cowardice
in non-action against themselves, eager to
be martyrs and gain more publicity. The
policy of the Silver Legion isn’t one of poli­
tics but of statesmanship. It stands for a set
of principles and a system, which, if in­
stalled, will shovel out the whole national
mob of troublemakers at a master-stroke.
The next time we gather here then, we are
going to make an examination of another
fundamental of Silver Legion procedure:
W hat our policy as a Legion is toward Jews
as a race.
31
In other words, we're going* to discuss wlmt
Jews as a race hope finally to achieve
amongst us, and what Silvershirt counter­
measures can mess their program perma­
nently.
Now then, for the remainder of the evening,
suppose we open a sort of debate among
ourselves and discuss this point which for­
ever makes for controversy—
What specific point in the “No More
Hunger” plan, when put into opera­
tion, will do most to keep this present
Red confusion from ever being allowed
to repeat?
The Sponsor will here begin reference to his
No More Hunger volume and try to get an
argument begun as to whether an altered
currency system will do more to checkmate
any future assault by Jewry than a public
school educational plan that openly instructs
the young in a perpetual vigilance against
Dark forces entering into control of gov­
ernments. Could any person or group, mis-
chief-bent, use the Credit Currency System
to promote fresh sedition in favor of Com­
munistic Jews?
32
i
1
/
t
Louis D
* Brand©is
2 F e lix F ran k fu rter
3 Rahbi Stephen S. Wise
4 Sauiuel D ickstein
5 Henry Morgenthau, Jr.
. - ...... ......................................
