{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__pelley___what_is_a_jew_baiter.pdf","mytitle":"What Is A Jew Baiter","mylang":"de"}
What is a
Jew-Baiter?
By the Publisher of
“THE W ORLD HOAX”
What is a Jew-Baiter?
OTHER day I got a letter
ses. It was a different kind of a letter entirely.
In fact, this Congressman wrote me a letter of pro­
test, of remonstrance, vaguely of rebuke.
This, of course, was epochal. When a dog bites a
man, the occurrence is not news. But when a man
bites a dog there is excitement by night in all the best
journalistic offices from Bangor to Bellingham.
Somehow or other, getting a letter of protest, or
remontsrance, from a Congressman seemed to fall in
the class with Man Bites Dog and other items.
from a Congressman. It was not
the Congressman in my home dis­
trict. It was not a letter asking
me to vote for him. Emphatically
it was not a letter soliciting me to
contribute to his campaign expen-
1
Common citizens who merely pay the taxes often ex­
change letters with Congressmen, but usually the
common citizen is the writer of such, and if there is
protest involved it proceeds toward Capitol Hill in­
stead of out from it.
In this instance a Congressman was protesting
against me, an unwept, unhonored, and unhung
journalist, committing the unutterable breach of at­
tempting to supply him with information that per­
chance might aid him in his law-making.
I had voluntarily placed him upon the gratis list of
my publication, Liberation.
Evidently this Congressman must have opened it
from time to time and acquainted himself with its
contents <
*
* &
At any rate, perceiving what it was, the gentleman
emitted a loud and vociferous yowl and dropped it as
though it had seared his delicate finger-tips. Shout­
ing excitedly for his stenographers, he had dictated
to me a letter.
IDEEM it more or less bad manners to talk about
a person’s correspondence secondhandedly, unless
I can repeat what was said, in full. Too many such
letters are talked about thus and the reader reserves
judgment on the controversy till he finds out if the
letter has been fully and correctly quoted.
2
bers of a particular race. Therefore, I am not in
sympathy with the kind of publication which you
have been sending me and which comes out in un-
American attacks on the Jews.
Very truly yours,
Alfred N. Phillips, Jr.
N
OW at first hand, on the face of it, I might
yowl for my own stenographer, jam my briar
angrily with tobacco, spill a lot of it, set afire what
I could, and while great clouds of aerial carbon
veiled my nettled pate, start in to answer Alfred, go
to the mat with him, tell him what I think of him,
assure him that it will be a pleasure to save the four
dollars a year which it would .otherwise cost me to
get 52 issues of Liberation into his hands, and end
up with an hysterical editorial calling attention to
the fact that congressmen in general are notoriously
inhibited when it comes to knowing what the nation’s
troubles are all about, and it is not to be wondered
at that the country is in a mess when one clique of
pin-heads make the laws and the public that are the
pin-cushions try to obey them.
All of which might make Alfred still more aggrieved
and ultimately cause a breach between us, Alfred
proceeding to pass laws against citizens so dangerous
as myself while I embrace the debatable privilege of
4
tion of the cause for intemperance and why, from
the ethico-economic standpoint, husbands came home
plastered
Because—and here is the tragic part—if Alfred had
truly studied into what Communism is, and knew
the origin and avowed purposes of it as expertly as
some of us who are sacrificing our fortunes and our
lives to exterminate it, he would make the jolting
discovery that we are quite logical and rational men
to whom the so-called "baiting” of our fellowmen is
just as repulsive and disgusting as it may appear to
conscientious congressmen from Connecticut, and
that those who call us "Jew” baiters, or any other
kind of baiters, are but flaunting their own abysmal
ignorance of something that is rotting the core of
our culture
Sane men, mature men, never quarrel with ignor­
ance. They attempt as they can to propound, sen­
sibly and patiently, why they hold their deeper views,
d . This attitude and letter of Alfred’s are instances
in a thousand such expressions, declaiming to the
universe: "I want to do the right thing, but I pro­
pose to base my conduct on what I prefer to believe,
not on such facts as may be fetched to my attention
damaging my convictions and upsetting my preju­
dices”
So, first-off, here are one or two questions which in
6
solves itself to personal acquaintanceships and the
Alfred Philipses never go to the trouble of forming
such acquaintanceships, for that again might disil­
lusion them, baffle them, injure their prejudices, and
leave them at a loss.
There is no adjustment so painful as calling a man
a Great Hater at a distance and finding out on in­
timacy with him, that he is wont to feel tears at the
slightest injustice and would throw away his life to
see mankind’s wrongs righted.
It is far easier to take the puerile course of writing
a man and snapping: "I want nothing whatever to
do with you!” than to invite him to come in and talk
it over and learn what his rational reasons may be
for taking whatever attitudes he does.
People like the Alfred Phillipses assume that men
like myself have no rational reasons for the attitudes
we take or the policies we pursue; we dive off stupid­
ly from the platform of Christian tolerance into a
miasma of fulsome loathing and there we muck
around beastily and blindly, calling to society to jump
in and wallow with us.
I said before that I estimated Alfred as a conscien­
tious man who had admirable scruples against exer­
cising injustice against the least of God’s creatures.
^ However, I nowhere make the statement that I
8
sciously. Perhaps they fear with a great fear to
make discoveries that will shatter their prejudices,
ruin their political careers, or jeopardize their for­
tunes as they square their acts with Conscience. At
any rate, this tiling is true—
No honest, conscientious, and intelligent non-Jew has
ever been known to go to the bottom of the Jewish
Question without coming back an aroused, angered,
or belligerent antagonist of Judah, bitterly opposed
to the aggressions of this race in the arena of society!
The shift in attitude is vigorously automatic.
This is declaring in essence that the man who touts
for pro-Hebrew tolerance either has a strain of
Jewish blood himself, which he is secretly defending,
or he is a sincere but hapless ignoramus—at least his
learning is tragically shallow or he lacks the percep­
tion to draw conclusions from the obvious.
Brutal though such an indictment may be, the man
who sets himself out to go to the bottom of the
Jewish Question—leaving every preconceived preju­
dice aside—suddenly stumbles on devastating facts.
First, he discovers academically and theologically
that the Ten Tribes of Israel whom Moses was re­
puted to have led from the Wilderness, and of whom
Jehovah would have made a Chosen People, were an
entirely different set of folks from the rapacious
10
racials down to impoverishment and slavery and that
an understanding exists among the modem leaders
of this people to duplicate in all countries of the
earth what has been temporarily successful in Russia
since 1919 ■
* a*
As the biased student probes deeper and deeper into
this racial cancer on intemationality and hears from
the bearded mouths of generations of Jews them­
selves exactly what they are working to do to the
other religions and governments of the world with
the instinctive if not tacit approval of all individual
members of that race he first feels astonishment, then
disgust, then alarm, then righteous indignation, then
the awful urge to action!
He begins to discern with what Satanic cleverness
these machinations are being accomplished under the
guise of religious and racial tolerance, the control of
purse and press, the insidious infilteration of Judaists
in political governments, the vast propaganda of
vicious deception that is immediately waged when a
given set of nationals suddenly "tumble” to the
whole of it and ostracize these mischief-workers be­
fore their State collapses.
"In the name of Christianity, civic probity, and the
welfare of our grandchildren, something must be
done about this cabal at once!” he finally explodes.
C, "No, no, that’s Jew-baiting!” cries the crafty
12
"I’m against Communism, but likewise I’m against
any agitation against its Jews.”
At once the person not inhibited by Alfred’s tragic
lack of information as to what Communism truly is
about, wants to ask this sentimentalist Representative
how in the name of sense he can be both?
"Do you actually know what Communism is?” he
asks the Alfred Phillipses hypothetically.
"Certainly we know what Communism is,” they ap­
pear to retort by their attitude.
"Very well, what is it?”
"Communism is an attempt being made by leaders
of the world’s proletariat to get the earth’s working-
folks a better share in the world’s wealth, but striv­
ing to achieve it by ill-advised violence and the over­
throw of so-called capitalistic governments.”
"That’s Communism?”
"Yes!”
"That’s all you know about it?”
"W hat more remains to know?”
"Who first projected Communism?”
"Karl Marx.”
"Do you know how Karl Marx defined Com­
munism?” &
"I imagine------”
"Never mind imagining. Do you know?”
"No. How did he define it?”
14
"I refuse to accredit it!”
"W hat’s your refusal to accredit it got to do with
the facts?”
"Jews couldn’t be so brainless!”
"Do you consider Justice Louis D. Brandeis par­
ticularly brainless?”
"Of course not. Why drag him into it?”
"Because he says quite bluntly that the Jews are
after exactly such ends. Have you read his book,
The Jewish Problem and How to Solve It?”
"No.”
“Of course you haven’t. If you had, and a hun­
dred similar confirmations out of the mouths of
Jews themselves, you’d realize that some of us who
love our country and our religion have every license
to defend both against this admitted and boasted
cabal without becoming candidates for the castiga­
tion of 'Jew-baiters’ That’s what you called me—
because I’ve familiaried myself with what the Jews
themselves have conceded over twenty years!”
“You’re making some strong and dangerous state­
ments” ■
*
* •*
*
“At least I’m making them out of knowledge!
Can you say the same in your own case?”
"I’m saying you can’t indict a whole people for
the acts of a few.”
"But Jews subscribe to those acts as their own!
16
mosquitoes. But isn’t it a case of antagonism be­
tween you as a human being and mosquitoes as a
species of fever-carrying insect?”
"Jews aren’t insects. They’re fellow human beings.”
"That’s what you say. But suppose the very Talmud
from which they take their 'religion’ says otherwise?”
"What do you mean, says otherwise?”
"Don’t you know that the Talmud teaches that only
Jews are human beings, that God has created Gen­
tiles in the form of human cattle, purposely to serve
them?” & &
"There you go Jew-baiting again!”
"For pity’s sake, be reasonable! Why don’t you in­
vestigate and find out what they preach?”
"I want more facts than a few chance opinions of
eccentric individuals.”
"Will you peruse the facts, if I place them in your
hands?” •# a*
"How can you do that?”
"I can put in your hands a smail book—say about
two hundred pages—that lists and documents every
important utterance by Jews, big or little, irrefutably
attesting that this thing called Communism isn’t any
gesture of the proletariat striving to get its rights.
Instead its a plan and a program carefully thought
out by the leaders of world Jewry to use the poor
dumb trade-unionists to fight Judah’s battle and pull
18
But how can any man combat anything without
knowing the origin or identity of the thing that he’s
battling? I challenge them to read this book, and
then write me afterward as to whether or not they
still consider me a Jew-baiter. Have they got the
backbone to inspect the vicious facts?”
JOW I have never met Alfred N.
Phillips, Jr., personally. But I have
encountered thousands of good
people up and down this land who
have cried at me in protest: "You
can’t indict a whole race. Com-
munism isn’t necessarily Jewish
merely because a lot of down-trodden Jews think that
it will better their state. If Communism is world
Jewry in action, as you claim, show us the proof of
it!” For five years I have had to carry around in
documents or in the library of my mind a hundred
scraps of desultory attestment, uncollated, taken at
random from such sources as I had tapped.
But one afternoon back in November, of last year,
the postman dumped a packet of bulky manuscript
on my office desk. I uncut the string and took out
about 200 sheets of typewritten material segregated
into biographies of the past or present leaders of
Communism. I started to read them.
20
sions: "You claim Communism is Jewish. Very
well, prove it!”
ERNEST ELMHURST IN HIS BOOK TH E
WORLD H O A X HAS PROVED IT! He had
proved it so stupendously that even I, delving in
similar matters over nearly two decades, was left a
bit breathless and badly perturbed.
What would happen when this manuscript in printed
form reached the hands of the Christian-Gentile
public? •*
*
One thing I knew: It would halt this silly, childish
business of naming me a "Jew-Baiter” by recounting
in compact, readable, inexorable form what I had
been hectically trying to present to my fellowman
since this era of misery was inducted upon us.
22
I take the position that two vast philosophies are now
engaged in struggle for survival in this world of the
present. One is the Christian philosophy of Live and
Let Live, with its recognition of rugged individualism
and adherence to the Bill of Rights in the Federal
Constitution. The other is secretive and conniving
Judaism with its erotic and introspective avowal: We
alone are favorites of God Almighty and all other
races are but cattle, created by divine Providence to
become our slaves and chattels. These two vast
philosophies must fight their Armageddon.
It is bigger than the individual involved, bigger than
the isolated Jew or the isolated Gentile.
SO I went ahead and published Ernest Elmhurst’s
book, and it is now ready for delivery into your
hands. Understand me, it is no flimsy pamphlet
stuffed with anti-Jewish propaganda, slammed to­
gether any old way to commercialize race hatred
^ The first edition of The World Hoax is an ex­
quisitely-done volume of two hundred pages, printed
on durable rag-paper with artistic margins and
deckle-edges, comparable to anything ever turned out
by my printing house, the whole bound in artistic
leatherette covers with title in gold on the back. It
is more than a volume to read for information. It is
24
alone. There is nothing like it at this moment in
existence. Beautiful as a printed work beyond com­
pare, its text is catastrophic. As it begins to get
widely circulated, it may easily cause an upheaval in
Jewry >
9
* <
9
*
Thousands of "good Jews” are going to be called
to the indictment: Explain away these attestments if
you can! And other thousands are going to cry:
"O ur leaders are betraying us into a pogrom!” And
they must proceed against those leaders and over­
throw them or their screech may be correct.
Use the Order Card herewith, and get YOUR copy
of this book without delay. Advance indications al­
ready have it that The World Hoax is going into
printing after printing, altering the aspect of Jewry
in N orth America. But time for manufacture must
necessarily elapse between editions.
H ere is information that Y O U cannot get along
without, in your fight against murderous anti-Chris­
tian Communism. Conscientious Congressmen like
Alfred N . Phillips, Jr., cannot get along without it,
either •5
* J*
c It will be interesting to see how anti-Jewish
A lfred becomes if he has sporting blood enough in
him to give this irrefutable volume ,an unbiased read-
ing from cover to cover!
26
