{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__leavitt___personality_plus.pdf","mytitle":"Personality Plus","mylang":"de"}
Copyright 1938
by
Hazel Leavitt
C O N T E N T S
Chapter 1
THE ELEMENTS OF PERSONALITY
HOW TO SUCCESSFULLY USE THE POWERS YOU NO W
HAVE IN REMOLDING YOUR PERSONALITY ALONG
SOCIAL, DOMESTIC AND BUSINESS AVENUES OF
EXPRESSION
How To Overcome Inherited Tendencies
How To Correct Limiting Habits
How To Express YOUR NATURE and Talents more suc­
cessfully
Examples Showing How Changes are Wrought
Chapter 2
YOUR M IND A MENTAL POWER-HOUSE
HOW TO GAIN A TRUE UNDERSTANDING OF YOUR
TROUBLES
How To Use Your Mental Powers Constructively and cre­
atively
How The Mind Influences the Body; as W ell as The Body
the Mind
How To Coordinate These Two and Have Harmony
You Can Improve YOUR Life and Develop A Pleasing,
Magnetic Personality
Chapter 3
HOW TO OVERCOME SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS A N D THUS
OPEN THE DOOR TO IMPROVED PERSONALITY
HOW TO OVERCOME UNREASONABLE FEAR AND WORRY
Inferior, Superior and Exhibition Complex Defined
All Mental Complexes the Result of Some Form of Fear
Chapter 4
HOW TO MAKE FRIENDS
HOW TO MAKE YOURSELF MORE ATTRACTIVE TO THE
OPPOSITE SEX
How To Help Make Life A Happy Experience and NOT A
Complicated Mess
*
Chapter 5
HOW TO TRAIN YOUR REASONING POWER AND JUDGE­
MENT
HOW TO IMPROVE YOUR MEMORY
How To Use Your Mind Constructively and Aid Success
Chapter 6
HOW TO OVERCOME OVER-SENSITIVENESS, OVER-SERI­
OUSNESS
HOW TO CONTROL AND DIRECT EMOTION
Is Personality A Form of Sex Attraction?
An Intimate Understanding of Sex Life
Emotion The Motive Power of Life
(Page 6)
(Page 13)
(Page 22)
(Page 32)
(Page 40)
(Page 46)
3
HOW TO DEVELOP CONFIDENCE
HOW TO DEVELOP COURAGE, THE FOUNDATION OF
PERSONALITY POWER
How To Become An Optimist
Chapter 8
HOW TO USE THE POWER OF SUGGESTION
HOW THE PROPER USE OF SUGGESTION MAKES YOU A
MAGNETIC, POSITIVE PERSON
How To Get Away From "Moods”
How To Develop A Very Real Interest in Life
How To Develop an "I CAN, I WILL” Spirit
Chapter 9
HOW TO MAKE A GOOD FIRST IMPRESSION
HOW TO IMPROVE YOUR MANNER OF SPEECH AN D THE
PITCH OF YOUR VOICE
How To Improve Your Personal Appearance
How To Develop The Power of Observation
How To Add To Your Character
Chapter 10
HOW TO BECOME A MORE INTERESTING CONVERSA­
TIONALIST
HOW TO DEVELOP WILL POWER
Some of the Common Elements in Expressing Personality in
Social and Business Life
How Faulty Habits of Mannerism Can Be Corrected
Chapter 11
HOW TO BECOME A CONVINCING SPEAKER
HOW TO IMPROVE YOUR VOCABULARY AND POWER OF
SPEECH
How To Develop Resourcefulness, Tact and Diplomacy
How Good Books Can Become Good Friends and Serve You
Chapter 12 .
HOW TO DEVELOP INDIVIDUALITY, POISE A N D CALM­
NESS
HOW TO FIND AN D HOW TO CULTIVATE NEW FRIENDS
How To Become Popular
How To Express More Love
Chapter 13
HOW TO DIRECT YOUR ENERGY WISELY, A N D THUS
ADD TO SUCCESS
HOW TO ACQUIRE THE GREATEST THING IN L IF E -
HAPPINESS
How To Represent YOUR True Type
How To Overcome Thought Waste
Chapter 7
(Page 34)
(Page 61)
(Page 68)
(Page 75)
(Page 82)
(Page 89)
(Page 96)
i
HOW TO DETERMINE YOUR MOST PROMISING SOCIAL
OR BUSINESS ACTIVITY
HOW TO OVERCOME FEAR OF PEOPLE, RESPONSIBILITY,
YOURSELF, DEATH, AND OTHER UNREASONABLE
FEARS
How To Reach a Point Where You Are Bigger Than Mys­
ticism, Superstition, Imaginings and the Negative Things
of Life (Page 103)
Chapter 15
HOW TO DEVELOP THE POWER OF CONCENTRATION
A N D SELF-CONTROL
THE DESTRUCTIVE POWER OF MONOTONY OR COLOR­
LESS LIVES
How a Real Interest in YOUR LIFE W ill Add to Your
Personality and Achievement
How to View TODAY in Order to Make it Profitable (Page 110)
Chapter 14
Chapter 16
HOW TO RELAX
HOW TO PLAY
HOW TO IMPROVE PHYSICAL BEAUTY AN D HEALTH
THROUGH SIMPLE FORMS OF EXERCISE
How To Judge Rest and Sleep Requirements
Bathing Customs for Beauty and Health
Some Suggestions Regarding Eating (Page 119)
Chapter 17
HOW TO BALANCE UP WILL, INTELLECT A N D EMOTION
HOW TO GET OUT OF THAT RUT YOU ARE IN
The Three Mental Essentials to Personality and Success
What Is a Neurotic and Neurasthenic
You Are NOT Too Old To Make These Adjustments (Page 123)
Chapter 18
HOW TO USE YOUR REASONING POWERS
HOW PERSONALITY AND PSYCHOLOGY ENTER INTO
ALL PHASES OF LIFE
How to Meet Unnatural Fatigue
How to Deal With a Business Prospect
Business Success Not Dependent Upon a Higher Form of
Education (Page 132)
Chapter 19
HOW TO OBTAIN A POSITION
THE POWER OF MONEY
Success Need Not Mean Riches
Do W e Reap What We Sow? (Page 139)
Chapter 20
YOUR GOAL IN SIGHT
YOUR IDEAL SELF MADE REAL! (Page 146)
5
CHAPTER 1
The Elements of Personality • How to Successfully Use the
Powers You Now Have in Rem olding Your Personality
Along Social, Domestic and Business Avenues of Expression
EVERYONE is-born with the elements which enter into what we
term PERSONALITY. '
f A.1ijVf!, . 11
Wwvc
The character or type of personality you express is largely attributable
siL.
to_past environment, early training, your associates and the_suggestions
you_have received-from outside and those you have given to ypj
%“
di>
All this, little by little has formed itself into habits of thought_anc
paction which you_are manifesting today in the form of YOUR PER
SONALITY.
tdtfe±_ '
No reasoning person will contradict me when_I say that HABITS'^' '
CAN BE BROKEN and _q£.w ones^formed. Get this thought clearly
fixed in your mind and the work of improving your personality will
be made much easier.
It is my belief that one does not inherit personality. You can inherit
tendencies, you can inherit a nature which, if you_drift, will cause you
to gradually be led into certain ways of thinking and acting, but you
do not INHERIT personality, for THOUGHT is something which is
developed following birth. You say,—"I am just like my father, and
I feel sure that I have inherited his traits.” Yes, you perhaps were
born with a similar nature to that which your father has.possessed and, y U
being in contact with him for years you HAVE expressed many of hispyv'
traits through absorbing his jways. You haye had the "tendency” and
without.wise training and direction you coulcLgasily fall into his habits. >
But let me assure you that you are NOT fate-driven and you have the
power to. destroy HABIT and form quite a different personality. Now
don’tjake me wrong. You can change the course of your thoughts and
actions, you can express YOIJB..nature in a different way from what you.
have, but you can not change .your .nature. In other words, you
make that nature of yours serve you instead you being a slave to it.
It has been YOUR viewpoint, your lack of faith, which has held you
to certain habits and traits that are undesirable. You have perhaps said
to yourself many times, "I realize that I am not expressing the best in
me, I know I am limiting myself through my own thinking, but what
am I going to do about it? I haven’t the power to change inheritance,
so I guess I will have to go along with what I am and dothebest
can I
6
i
i
«
I can.” Thus, you have not opened the doors to the improvements you
might have made in yourself. You have had the DESIRE, but have
lacked faith in your ability to make the necessary adjustments.
In these lessons I shall endeavor to teach you HOW to destroy
unwholesome, limiting, weakening, habits,—and HOW TO FORM
NEW ONES. I cannot make this change in you myself of course, but
I CAN SHOW YOU HOW TO DO IT. And ifyou will have just
lots of faith and follow out my instructions carefully, I AM SURE
that you will be richly rewarded for the effort you put forth and that
you will not find it such a difficult task. To do anything well and show
a real interest in it, we must become familiar with the principles which
form the real foundation on which we expect to build. I recall as a
young man that algebra was always difficult and uninteresting. Do you
know WHY? Because I did not fully understand the rudiments and
was ashamed to go to my teacher and admit it and let her explain to
me. I feared that she might think me a "dumbbell” and, being self
conscious, I just hadn’t the nerve. Had I KNOWN the fundamentals
of algebra I might have liked it very much, for I had always liked
mathematics. So I am going to try to start you off right by going into
considerable detail, for with the right understanding I am sure you
will succeed.
The elements entering into what we call LIFE are rather obscure
when it comes to minutely dissecting them, for no one is positive just
what life is. Some say that life is composed of chemical and electrical
elements; while some others have quite a different opinion. But we do
■know that LIFE is a wonderful force or energy, capable of carrying one
|j to the heights of happiness or success if wisely directed. We also
understand comparatively little about electrical energy, but we witness
. its demonstrations and know sufficient about it to make it serve us.
\Both of these tremendous forms of energy have a constructive and a
■^destructive side to them. With wise direction electricity furnishes us
the wonderful lighting effects we enjoy today; it turns wheels in our
factories; it permits us to enjoy the pleasure of radios; and does
innumerable things to add to our comfort. But if that force is not
understood and improperly directed it can burn down your home and
kill. Now in a like manner your mental machinery can be given wise
or unwise direction and can make you happy and carry you on its wings
to success; or it can make a miserable and unhappy life for you. With
such power under your command do you believe that it is impossible
for you to develop a pleasing and profitable personality?
jb o—
'X-a-<p ,'jb ^ .
7
The personality you envy is not just the result of drifting in most
cases, but represents wholesome, stimulating and elevating surround­
ings and training, along with ambition and desire, which have in times
spelled that personality you admire. You see daily the manifestations,
the results of well directed lives, but you have not believed that YOU
COULD HAVE A SIMILAR PERSONALITY. Thus you have not
given yourself credit for the real power you possess. If two brains were
weighedjind measured; one representing.a magnetic, forceful, power-
ful^personality; and the other an unhappy personality; there would-be
•little or no difference. The REAL DIFFERENCE would be found only
in a matter of understanding, training, direction and development.
A PLEASING PERSONALITY IS THE GREATEST SINGLE
ASSET ONE CAN POSSESS.
A well-known college professor recently stated that he found those
graduating from his college who possessed personality, almost at once
stepping into a good position.
A big movie director recently said, “Today we are..not seeking beauty,
but personality. Beauty can be found everywhere.”
A man I am acquainted with who was thrown out of his usual line
of work, secured a position as an attendant at a gas filling station. His
smiles and words of cheer soon made him the busiest man at the station,
for everyone wished that he wait on him. He made himself most valu­
able, to such an extent that another large station offered him a much
larger salary than he was receiving. But his first employer recognized
his worth and presented him with a good interest in the business to stay
with him. He is now making a good income and is still smiling.
PERSONALITY alone did that for him.
Flaven’t you many times seen cquple.s^together and wondered what
in the world he had.been attracted to in her; or what she had seen in
hinj ? That one you believed looked out of place undoubtedly possessed
PERSONALITY andJhat_is_Hihat his or.her mate saw and married.
Beauty is only skin deep, can be mostjhallow, so, if you have felt that
others.vyere much more attractive than you and that therefore you have
had little .chance of jmakiag_a- good match, turn to personality and it
will more, than make up for your shortcomings.
I at one time had a secretary who was with me for some eight years.
Surely she was not attractive in appearance, but she was more deeply
loved by my patients than anyone I had ever had. She left me to marry
a fine man whom she had met in my office while with me. One day she
t
1
»
*
8
A
»Sr
&
s
told me how she happened to strive to make herself pleasant and
gracious. She said, "When I was quite young my mother said to me
one day, 'Now Jane, you are not pretty, and you will have to make up
for this by being unusually kind, considerate and thoughtful, and be
sure to learn how to smile’.” She certainly learned, her lesson well.
\.You see, Jane very deliberately went about the work of creating within
herself PERSONALITY. And she was richly rewarded for the effort
it cost her.
In this first lesson I am trying to sell you on the fact that YOU can
improve YOUR personality, for unless you BELIEVE you can you will
not travel very far.
But what is this which we call PERSONALITY ?
My College Webster’s states:—"Quality or state of being personal,
or being a person. Personal existence or identity. Individuality. That
which constitutes distinction of person.”
But I don’t feel that gives a real picture of personality. It is some­
thing subtle, something we feel in another that is difficult to describe,
and is made up of many elements. You are introduced to another by
some friend and after having_ only a few minutes conversation you
usually leave with some fixed idea regarding that individual. You may
say—"I wouldn’t trust that person any farther than I could throw a
cat by the tail.” Or you may feel, "Gee, I hope I can see that person
often and our contacts will develop into real friendship.” Ask why?
and you will at first not be able to tell. It is something^you have felt
which plays on your emotion one way or the other, and the like or
dislike has been quickly kindled.
Now permit me to give my definition of PERSONALITY in rather
a different way from what you will find it in any dictionary. Here are
some of the things which enter into what might be termed an ideal
personality:—
"P” Positiveness, expressed_in a wholesome tactful manner; Polite­
ness; Persuasiveness; Punctuality; Perseverance; Purpose;
Power; Promptness; Practicality; Physical Fitness; Posture.
"E” Earnestness of purpose; Enthusiasm; Enlightenment; Elation;
Earnestness; Effort. Emotional Balance; Efficiency.
"R” Reliability; Reasoning; Resourcefulness; Right Thinking;
Relaxation; Resoluteness; Regularity; Reserve Power; Reading.
9
\
\‘
"S” Soundness of Principles; Sympathy; Sustained Interest; Self
Assertiveness; Study; Strong Mind and Body; Salesmanship.
"O” Oneness of Purpose; Optimism; Orderliness; Observation;
Originality; Oneness with Law. g
"N” Naturalness; Neatness; Normality.
"A" Ambition; Amiableness; Attention; Alertness; Action; Asser­
tiveness; Acquisitiveness; Associates.
"L” Love; Loyalty; Likableness.
"I” Interest; I Can, 1 Will, expressed in moderation, but felt
deeply; Inspiration; Imagination; Influence; Inconspicuous­
ness; Intentness.
„T” Trueness to Self; Thoughtfulness; Thoroughness; Thrift;
Tolerance; Tenderness; Temperance.
"Y” Yielding Gracefully, rather than arguing; Youthful Thoughts.
The Mental Elements Necessary to Personality
First, you must have a plan. You must know what you are working
toward. You must have a mark to shoot at.
This means that you must take a mental inventory of yourself, with­
out shielding yourself in the least, so that you may know just what you
have to overcome. This is not _an easy task, for a great many people
are unable to see their own faults. It is just possible that you have been
told by.some of your good friends or relatives some of these faults,
but have tried to make yourself believe that they really did not exist in
you.. Recall some of the things that have been told you and reconsider
them. There may be more truth back of the remarks than you have
wished to admit.
I believe it will be a good plan to write down the flaws you find,
adding to them from time to time as you discover new ones, so that you
will know exactly what your enemies are. A good general knows defi­
nitely the lay of the land, the weak spots in the ranks of his enemies,
and then throws his power against the weaker points. He lays out his
campaign usually before he fires a gun. *
It is said that Benjamin Franklin at one time in his life did exactly
as I have suggested that you do—that is—he took a mental inventory, „
listed his faults, failings and flaws, and then set about correcting them
one by one.
10
&
Jt
'X
,
THE IMPORTANCE OF IMAGINATION
You cannot lay plans without first picturing your goal in a detailed
way. This will call for imagination and visuali2ation. Like the archi­
tect draws his plans before construction can Begin, so must you think
out your plans in great detail. It will not be sufficient for you to say to
yourself—“I want to have a career; I wish to be loved by people; I wish
to succeed in the things which I undertake; and above all, I wishJo be
happy.” Each one of these various desires calls for certain definite
elements which you must set in action in order to accomplish it.
It is said that the true sculptor sees in his block_of marble the statue
he wishes to create and that in reality_he just chips away on that "block”
until jusjthe figure remains. Thus youjnust chip away many flaws and
add those things which will be required for you to realize your dream
J y.of PERSONALITY IMPROVEMENT.“
In this first lesson I shall give you just a rough idea of some of the
things necessary to PERSONALITY IMPROVEMENT; and shall
take up the many things in greater detail as the lessons continue.
After you have your plans formed the next mental element to set in
motion Is DESIRE. You must create a burning desire for the .things j
you wish to achieve. This desire must be sufficiently strong to act as a
motivejpower; and your goal must be sufficiently alluring to constantly y, v p
draw you on and on toward jts crystallization. Next you must work
on your FAITH. You should_read things, such as biographies of indi­
viduals who hayejiad an humble beginning and who, through strong I
effort, have developed themselves into unusual personalities. There are!
plenty of such instances which you are probably familiar with if you
just have a fair knowledge of some of our past Presidents. James A.
Garfield_did a great deal of his studying and reading while riding a
canal boat mule_up and down the river. Theodore Roosevelt made a ^ V JJ
forcefn) rpan of_him§glf through becoming deeply interested in mental
and physical developrngnt_follo.wing_his graduation from college.
Herbert Hoover worked his way through school, including college.
And of course we are all familiar, with the life of Abraham Lincoln.
And we find outstanding women too who have _risen from poverty,to
greatness. Madame Ernestine Schumann-Heink after hunger, ex- X X X
tremg poverty and depression tried to commit suicide but then was
born ajaith which awakened a true fighting spirit and she became the
greatest singer of herJime. Our beloved Mary Pickford with an humble
beginning and the development of personality made it possible to
11
remainhn the screen longer than any living actress. Can you lack faith
when you realize what Helen Keller has accomplished in her life?
Personality made Will Rogers the beloved character he tyas. Person­
ality raised Greta Garbo from a lather-mixgr. in a barber shop to fame
and fortune. A former patient of mine went through only second grade
at school but later became Superintendent of a railroad. A girl of
twenty-nine who wrote me in a splendid hand and who could play
instruments, brush her teeth, answer the telephone and doorbell, sew,
feed herself, play with the other children when a child, said she was
really happy; shecwas bom with her arms off..above the elbows and her
legs off above the knees. And do you still say "it can’t be_done?” I
could go on reciting just hundreds of instances where people have over­
come far greater handicaps than you probably have to face—and HAVE
WON. Let some of these illustrations add to YOUR faith. You CAN
TD*-remould yourself if you will willingly pay the price in effort.
It will be necessary for you to develop your FAITH to a point where
it matches your DESIRE in strength, if you are to win. Desire without
Faith will not accomplish much. Such a condition represents a "wish­
bone” in place of a "backbone”. So work on FAITH. There are many
stimulating books which will fire your ambition and urge you on toward
success?
And last, but not least, you must build up your WILL POWER in
order .to hold_yourself steadfast on the. course you have outlined. Will
Power must act as a balance wheeMn some instances, so thapjsome
emotional wave will got side-track yon ; and in other jnsjtane£S_tO_inain-
tainjyour perseverance and staging powers.
I shall have a lot more to say further on about these mental elements
I have mentioned, and many more. If you will follow me closely and
DO YOUR PART I am sure you will never regret it.
$
I
•»
CHAPTER 2
Your Mind A Mental Power-House • How to Gain A True
Understanding of Your Troubles
V Y TE read that "Life Begins at Forty,” and many other catch phrases
’ ' to attract the eye, but It is my opinion that real life never begins
until we have a good understanding of ourselves and our true power.
How can we possibly live life efficiently and happily without some
reasonable comprehension of life itself, especially, life as expressed in
and through US.
Due to this lack of comprehension man limits himself tremendously,
and this thought of limitation is responsible for a large percentage of
the failures and unhappiness. It has been stated by scientists that
Thomas A. Edison used but seventy-five percent of his brain cells.
Nature has been more than good to us as far as preparing us for life
is concerned. We have been furnished reserve powers to meet most
any emergency, if we just recognize this fact and take advantage of it.
Years ago when I was in the active practice of medicine I was called
to a home in my neighborhood to see a husband with whom I was
quite well acquainted. I rang the bell and his wife opened the door
and with a voice so choked with tears that she could hardly speak,
stated, "Doctor, John has gone insane and with difficulty we managed
to get him into his room and lock the door, what shall we do?” I
volunteered to go in and see what I could do. When I opened the door
he raved in his madness and pictured me as some enemy of his and at
once started for me. This man was a very much undersized individual,
weighing about 125 pounds and not over five feet two in height. Had
I not received assistance he surely would have got the best of me. Now
at times when he was sane I am sure I would have had no difficulty in
handling him and presume a good hard slap in the face would knock
him down. Where did he suddenly get this tremendous strength? I
will tell you. He possessed all the strength he had used all of the time,
but through thought limitation, partly that we all inherit, and partly
through the limitations he had built up through having developed into
rather a shy, non-combative man, he had never BELIEVED he had such
power. While insane he forgot self completely, thus breaking down
these thought limitations, and USED HIS ALL.
Think what John might have accomplished in life had he always
realized his true power. YOU are undoubtedly limiting YOURSELF in
13
l yJ M _
_
many, many ways. Think what FAITH IN SELF YOU WOULD
SHOW, what COURAGE you would manifest, if you were fully con­
scious of your real power. But people who are self conscious, who
haven’t a very good opinion of themselves, who have these various
mental complexes which create in them an unpleasant, uninteresting,
even a nasty personality, hold inferior thoughts toward themselves as
far as their strength is concerned. They find it impossible to forget
themselves, and just as long as you are conscious of yourself you are
SURE to limit your power of expression. Life calls for COURAGE,
and without it we become just playthings for life and may later realize
that we are just human wrecks on the shore of life.
COURAGE is created through USING regularly what courage we
can muster, or in other words, through exercising this power. If I can
just make you see that YOU have all the essentials within you to the
building up of courage, confidence, happiness and a successful life,
I am sure you will then begin USING YOUR GOD-GIVEN POWERS
and realize your dreams.
You CANNOT possess a winning personality without building up
Courage and Confidence. No one ever achieved greatness, or even a
local form of real recognition, without these two factors being present.
Of course along with this courage and confidence there must be wise
direction of your powers. We find vicious criminals showing some of
these qualities, but in their case the power has been misguided, mis­
used. The daring gunman would have found himself looked up to
through the things he achieved had he just directed his powers and
efforts along constructive lines.
A young English barrister was trying his first important case. On the
day the appeal to the jury was to be made a number of lawyers were
present, for the case was an unusual one. The young barrister made a
most emotional, wonderful plea and won his case. Later several lawyers,
who in the past had hardly nodded to this young barrister, went out
of their way to shake his hand and congratulate him. One said—-''John,
how in the world could you make such a wonderful plea with as little
experience as you have had, it was marvelous.” The young barrister
replied, "I felt my children pulling at my coattails and crying for
bread.”
Now if you can just find some incentive to push you on toward
accomplishment, it will help you mightily. Perhaps YOU have a wife,
14
or children, or a husband you earnestly wish to help and have think
well of you; or if not these, a sweetheart you wish to soon marry; or
a mother or father whom you would like to please and have them feel
proud of you. There must be an incentive, if nothing more than the
personal satisfaction WE would have over making good, if we are to
give our best. And remember I have stated that PERSONALITY is
the biggest asset you can possibly possess in your fight to make good.
Truly, your mind is a MENTAL POWER HOUSE, a real dynamo,
if you will but understand it and break down the limitations which
have interfered with its full and free expression.
When you begin to realize your powers and KNOW that YOU have
the elements of PERSONALITY and greatness within you, then make
a study of your nature, the type of individual you are by birth. ,_Eor
instance, it is not possible for a sensitive person to create himself into
a "hard boiled” character. But he can gain command over that sensi-
tive nature of his and control and direct it. President Wilson was a
sensitive, emotional type, with a tendency toward nervousness, and just
as long as he was in command of these powers and in the ascendency,
he was a forceful individual. But see what happened when Congress
turned down his 14 point program and discouragement and depression
entered. We find that many times Napoleon Bonaparte was sentimental
and soft, and really possessed a sensitive and emotional nature. But
when he directed these powers toward winning battles and achieving
success, he was an indomitable character. You can build up a control
which will make it possible to show great sympathy and tenderness,
when the occasion calls for it; or, on the other hand, firmness and the
ability to say "no” on other occasions.
Human powers when undirected often become like runaway horses
and do great damage. They not alone may cause another some sorrow,
which you are more than repentant of later, but through this uncon­
trolled emotion and the depression which follows, it can act like a
poison on your entire being and actually make you sick. Your mind
plays a big part in your bodily functions, as well as your physical health
having an effect on your mind. You will find the confident and cour­
ageous a healthier lot of people than those who possess more or less
FEAR OF SELF.
The mind and body should work hand in hand, and you must play
fair with both, if you are to be a well-balanced, strong personality.
Only today I read something about the early life of one of our food
15
experts of today. At the age of sixteen he was a weakling physically,
had gone through five operations for a tubercular hip, with little result.
He then went abroad and went under the care of a man who believes
that foods are better than drugs. A cure was effected and he became a
most enthusiastic advocate of this science which has so helped him.
This enthusiasm, along with the physical care he has given to his body
has made him a man today standing six feet two inches in height,
robust, athletic, with a fine sun tan and the picture of health. Thus he
has expressed PERSONALITY in his physical as well as mental life
and is much sought after. And I might add, he has gained a fortune
through his enthusiasm and attention to his mental and physical re­
quirements, as well as his wonderful physical appearance.
Faith, Faith, FAITH!
That’s the big step, and when that is acquired, the rest is easy.
But you say, "I have already shown 'faith' through the fact that I
have applied for your Course, and have paid my hard earend money
for it.”
Yes, you have shown Faith, but it perhaps is only an "experimental
faith,” or you have possibly said to yourself, "It looks pretty good, I
will gamble.” But that does not show the degree of faith which will
actually spell SUCCESS.
Permit me to give you another illustration which may add still
further to your faith.
Surely you believe that you possess far greater intelligence and
reasoning power than a dog, for man is the highest form of life. How
much do you know about the "Seeing Eye Dogs,” which are trained
for the blind ? It will do you good to read up on it for it shows how
these dogs can show the greatest intelligence in guiding their blind
masters, and what training can do. At this writing NOT ONE SINGLE
INSTANCE has been recorded where dog or master has been killed if
the blind person will TRUST THE DOG. This in spite of the fact
that the human who has eyes finds it difficult to cross streets on which
there is heavy traffic. Not long ago I followed a blind man for several
blocks down one of our heaviest traffic arteries in Chicago, across
streets where cars were turning corners and the streets were jammed
with traffic. The dog took that man through the crowds of people,
even leading him away from awnings which hung rather low for his
height to avoid having his hat taken off; until the man came to where
he wished to make a left hand turn and cross the heaviest traffic of all,
16
Michigan Avenue. The dog stopped at the crossing, pressed against
his master, and as they stood there a man on the sidewalk grabbed the
arm of the blind man to lead him across the street. The man threw off
his assistance roughly. This was not due to the blind man’s not appre­
ciating the offer, but to the fact that such tactics would spoil the train­
ing of the dog, and probably too to the fact that the blind man knew
that his dog was even more capable to getting him across that street
safely, than was human assistance. These dogs are PERFECT GUIDES.
I give you this illustration merely to show you that if a DOG can be
trained so perfectly, surely YOU have every reason to believe that
YOU, with your higher form of intelligence, can train YOURSELF
away from traits and even inherited tendencies which have formed in
you habits of character that are not pleasing, into a state of mind and
habit which IS HIGHLY PLEASING and will change your entire out­
look on life.
After you have a good understanding of what powers you have in 'Li/j.ts______
directing and controlling your life; and have awakened a faith which
says, "I KNOW I CAN ACCOMPLISH WHAT I SEEK,” it is then
ONLY a matter of training and development. And speaking in general
terms, "development” takes place through a law of USE. If you wish
to develop certain physical muscles you bring this about through certain
definite forms of exercise which you believe will fill the purpose scien­
tifically. That very same law applies to your mental forces.
I shall not undertake to go deeply into the construction of your
mind, but I believe a little knowledge will help you in making your
adjustments.
Psychologists divide mind into two phases; a conscious or objective
side of mind; and a subconscious or subjective expression of mind. If'¡
>
mJ ar-AA/uM^
you do a thing through the force of HABIT, you will frequently say, fUj-.L .■
■
{■
''' ■
-
I did it without thinking. In other words, you have not given conscious
thought to it. Now your conscious mind is that side with which you
think conscious thoughts and direct conscious action. Your subcon­
scious mind is a deeper seated or underlying side of mind which is
unseen and, to the average lay person, not understood. This subconscious
side of mind is where habits are formed and expressed. You think a
certain thought, or perform a certain act, day after day, and each day
makes a little deeper impression on this subconscious mind, until the
day comes when a deeply rooted, fixed habit has been formed. And in
doing things which represent habit, without giving conscious consider­
ation to it, you are simply following the direction of your subconscious
17
\
\ \
\
\
self and the thing which is the line of least resistance. If you travel
from one point to anothef regularly over earth where grass or weeds
have grown, it is not long before you will find a path has been formed.
And naturally you will follow that path, for it is the line of least
resistance. And just so do you sort of dig ruts or grooves across that
mental field, your mind, and there too you are merely expressing the
easier way. But if you find you have formed habits which are not the
best, you CAN through giving conscious direction to your thoughts for
a time, redirect the thoughts which represent these unreasonable habits,
and gradually form new ones. And this is where the training^ I have
been -talking about comes in. It takes some effort to redirect your
thoughts, some conscious watchfulness for a time, some disciplining.
But just as surely as that "Seeing Eye Dog” can be trained so perfectly,
so can YOU TRAIN YOURSELF and thus FREE yourself from the
bondage of unpleasant and unprofitable habits.
You do not really WISH to say some of the things you say, or do
some of the things you do, and I am sure that many times on your
return home after you have mingled with people, you have felt quite
ashamed of yourself for not treating certain ones in a different manner.
Some form of mental complex always gets one into habits that are
somewhat nasty, crude, or unkind and, through one’s not understanding
JUST HOW TO CORRECT IT, he has repeated things that he hates
himself for having done, time and time again. But I hope by now you
are beginning to realize that all such habits CAN BE DESTROYED
and that you CAN free your mind from its complexes and the habits
you have formed in consequence.
To have a strong PERSONALITY, you must develop a form of
independence.
Personality does not mean fashioning yourself after the exact pat­
terns of another, for unless that pattern fits you, your impersonation
will only be a superficial form of masquerading. And this can never
be carried off well for any great length of time. You must develop
YOUR personality, to a point where YOU are independent of others,
except to the degree that we are all to a certain extent imitators, as
there are VERY few truly Original people. But you must select
thoughts, actions, settings, clothes, which will best express the REAL
YOU. What might look well on one person, may not do anything for
you. Certain pleasures which some of your friends rave over, you may
find little amusement in. It is this individuality which makes up an
interesting world. In movies we find various forms of personalities
18
expressed. If all were alike, how bored -vould soon become. Sud­
denly there is an entirely new star heralded, and what we really find
in viewing her or him, is just ANOTHER PERSONALITY. He or
she has something that perhaps has not been possessed fully by any
other actor or actress.
It is PERSONALITY which will make YOU stand out as an indi­
vidual and be loved by many. And to be loved, we must have some­
thing lovable about us. If we are just ODD, we are more of a curiosity
than one who is deeply loved.
The late Walter Chrysler, whose life story was published in the
Saturday Evening Post, was somewhat crude when young, but still had
a deep longing for things of a mechanical nature; was willing to work;
had deep down within him most lovable qualities; and had in him the
ability to absorb things of a helpful nature; and a desire to make good
all along the line. After a number of experiences which taught him
that independence of a crude character did not pay, he remoulded him­
self in a forceful, lovable, successful character. He had not lost his
sense of personal independence; which all should possess; but' had
developed control and direction of that power which makes of it a
constructive, creative element. That same element in earlier years, when
he permitted himself emotional expression without due direction, lost
him several jobs. But he was one who "lived and learned,” and that
is what we all must do if we are to really succeed.
HOW TO GAIN A TRUE UNDERSTANDING
OF YOUR TROUBLES
Your first step should be to eliminate the possibility of your trouble
(
being of a truly physical origin. When this has been accomplished
you then know that your troubles must be psy^jiic in character. This
throws it back on the thought realm.
To discover just what is wrong mentally it will be necessary for you
to indulge in a form of self-analysis, not sparing yourself in the least.
This analysis is for the purpose of discovering your flaws and weak­
nesses and not for the purpose of proving YOU are all right and that
people and the environment about you is all wrong. You have reached
a point where you are seeking help, so strive to be impartial in your
analysis.
f
There is something wrong. Otherwise you would be happy, would
express a pleasing personality, would have many friends who loved
19
\
\.
\
you, and would be on tl. ighroad to success. Just WHAT IS IT?
Let me make a few suggestions and ask a few questions. Have you
become self-centered ? Self-centeredness means selfishnss, lack of inter-
est in others. It fosters fears of a depressing, inferior, limiting and
destructive nature. Let me list just a few of these unreasonable fears:
worry, apprehension, over-anxiety, over-seriousness, jealousy, envy and
a lack of confidence in general. If you are in such a state, you are not
happy in even living with yourself, so how can you expect others to
seek your company and enjoy themselves. Such fear states however
cause a self-limitation which usually causes one to avoid the company
of others. Self-centered people are negative people. The negative
plane puts one in constant touch with the weaknesses and troubles of
life. One who lives on such a plane indulges in thoughts of self-
condemnation, they believe themselves inferior to others. They are too
concerned over the opinion of others, fear criticism, and dislike to
assume responsibility. You cannot be happy under such circumstances,
and of course cannot look ahead toward success in life.
You are unhappy and limited ONLY because you have the wrong
viewpoint of yourself and life. Happiness is a state of mind—nothing
else. YOU have the same opportunities for happiness as others. YOU
were born with the same powers that others possess. YOU were cut
from the same pattern and out of the same material as the BEST. It is
shown that man’s mind in weight and capacity varies very little at
birth. It is the way we are trained early in childhood and the sugges­
tions we receive that form these undesirable habits within one. We
come into this life like a piece of clay and it is our training and environ­
ment that creates that piece of clay into something beautiful, as far
as personality and powers is concerned, or something more or less
mediocre.
Perhaps you did receive the wrong training in childhood and thus
you failed to receive the fine start in life that some others do. But
that does not mean you are "fate-driven.” Habits can be broken and
new ones established. Your brain or mind has not been actually dam­
aged in this process. Don’t you believe that habits can be broken and
new ones established? Don’t you believe that if a certain part of you
has become weakened through improper, or lack of use, that exercise
and wise direction will strengthen those weakened powers? Don’t you
believe that YOU are a child of God just as much as anyone in this
world? Don’t you believe that this fact gives you the same God-given
privileges that others enjoy? You have no right to look upon yourself
as a sort of a stepchild of God’s, for there is no such thing.
jffissr s*-
20
ou fail to
You may be SURE if you hold inferior thi
express a pleasing personality, "that" the fault ITe. yourself—
nowhere else. Perhaps you haven’t had the same fine opportunities that
some others have. Neither did our beloved Lincoln, or our very won­
derful Helen Keller. We make our own opportunities to a very great
extent.
It is YOUR OWN ATTITUDE toward yourself and life that has
thrown you out of balance. Build up a better opinion of yourself, show
real interest in other people and in life, forget yourself more and more,
and you will find your life unfolding and becoming a thrilling, happy,
wonderful experience.
Life is to a very great extent WHAT WE MAKE IT. Our thoughts,
the way we live, the small or large part in life we assume, spells WHAT
WE ARE.
If your trouble is mental in character you may be SURE that the
fault lies within yourself. Straighten out your own mental house; have
your mind a file instead of a pile, and you will begin to really live life.
r
21
CHAPTER 3
Tow To Overcome Self-Consciousness and Thus Open the
Door to Im proved Personality • How to Over­
come Unreasonable Kear and W orry
N unpleasant personality I believe is usually due to one of two
causes; either the possessor is in an unhealthy condition, and in
consequence irritable and nervous; or that one is suffering from some
form of Self Consciousness.
If you suspect that you are not right physically it is your duty to have
a reputable physician give you a thorough examination and thus clear
the question up one way or another. You may find that there is nothing
to be alarmed over, so do not fear to visit your physician. He may find
that you have not been taking sufficient exercise, that you are just a little
rundown. Or, he may tell you that your condition is just due to your
thinking about yourself and that the nervousness is the result of the
##worry habit. Through your knowing just what is wrong, you will then
be in a far better position to make your plans and map out your
campaign.
I shall consider more the mental side in dealing with your person­
ality problems than the physical. The above is just a suggestion that
it might be well for you to follow out if you are not feeling well
physically.
Self Consciousness is not inherited. So many I have contacted believe
themselves, rather fate-driven through the thought that they have in­
herited this phase of inferiority complex from father or mother. Those
who are self conscious have inherited a sensitive, rather over-serious,
emotional, nature, with possibly a tendency toward nervousngss; but
NOT self consciousness. This nature is fertile soil for the growth of
self consciousness, that is all.
Hundreds of people have written me, bemoaning their fate for
having been so unfortunate as to have inherited the nature I have
described above. The fact is that such a nature is a wonderful nature, •f-
^ a true blessing, if one understands it and becomes master j)f_it. Here
again, we find both a constructive and destructive action, according to
the way it is USED. Such a nature is capable of expressing GREAT
/ -pPOWTR. It is a nature which "goes places” if used properly. Prac-
' tically ALL great men and women have possessed such, .a.^nature. t
V
Through learning to use your nature in a way so that it is working
t
H
22
f-
FOR YOU instead of against you, you have an irresistible
is sure to carry you on and on toward success. The phlegma«.
such powers at their command, but are the easy going, sort of "get no
where” type of people, satisfied with little, and not capable of real
enthusiasm.
_____ £ ___________________
SELF CONSCIOUSNESS is a STATE OF MIND in which one
has formed the habit of being too conscious of his own existence, and
wherein unreasonable fears, which attach themselves to his particular
form of self consciousness, have reached a point where they are stronger
than he is. In other words, he feels himself "TRAPPED” by his
thoughts of FEAR. Naturally, imagination plays a very big jpart in
all forms of Inferiority Complex.
__________... .___„ ________ ... -VC. .............
You, as a self conscious person, are invited by a friend to some party.
If this is sprung on you suddenly you feel confused, and your mind is
working a mile a minute. You at once jump to the conclusion that you
will probably feel quite uncomfortable if you go, that you will suffer
from embarrassment that you will be conspicuous through your not
being able to converse freely; and you try to find ways and means of
refusing the invitation. If you should have sufficient courage to say
"yes” to the invitation, you worry and perhaps even perspire in think­
ing it over for perhaps days before the time to go. What a pity.
Do you know the most disturbing thought which is back of your,
self consciousness? What others will think of you. You just KNOW
you will find great difficulty in finding anything to talk about; you
KNOW that they will be conscious of your embarrassment; and you
feel SURE that those you contact will have a mighty poor opinion of
you. But do you reali2e that the whole trouble is due entirely to YOUR
-Pr HAVING A POOR OPINION OF YOURSELF? You lack FAITH
*4 IN YOURSELF; you lack COURAGE to face the situation.
. j ^.FEAR is back of such a situation.
Just_what is FEAR of this kind? It is something which YOU create.
_p|-Fear has ONLY the power that YOU GIVE TO IT. These fears are
duetto the attitude YOU assume toward a certain situation. It would
not exist were it not for YOUR faulty viewpoint. If your fear happens
to be attached to some social gathering you have been forced to go to,
you would find if you asked someone else how he or she would feel
under the same conditions your friend would reply:—"I wish I had
been invited for I am sure I would have had a fine time.” You see your
wjpfriend would view the pleasure side; while you view the destructive
side. It would just be a difference in VIEWPOINT.
23
• of it is the fact that you are taking YOURSELF and these
,ial functions TOO SERIOUSLY. You are making a moun­
tain out of a mole-hill. There is nothing REAL to fear, as I am sure
you have told yourself many_times while in the solitude of your own
room. These fears are nothing more or less than "mental ghosts”
which you call to your mind and permit to torment you.
One of the strangest things attached to self consciousness is the fact
that those who suffer from it as a rule have nothing to be self conscious
over. Those who are deformed and in many cases actually homely, are
not usually self conscious but often quite the opposite.
SELF CONSCIOUSNESS is a ridiculous fear. It hasn’t a leg to
stand on for its existence; it does not agree with reason; it does not
comply with your own better thoughts, except during moments you are
under its spell. And still you continue to permit this UNREASON­
ABLE, FOOLISH, INANE condition to exist. And it has continued
to exist only because you have not had sufficient courage to Face it and
put it in_its place.
Of course one who has been self conscious from childhood has had
only a fraction of the experiences and various forms of practice which
goes to build confidence, that the average individual has had. His life
has been one of following lines of least resistance, for he has avoided
the very things which would build the confidence and courage and ease
his desires. We all agree that "practice makes perfect.” You see YOU
have had little practice.
I find people who have worked for years frequently have reached a
point where they are not self conscious in connection with their business
life, but only along social lines. And this only goes to prove that prac­
tice makes perfect, for it has been the various^contacts they have been
forced to make in business ways, the repeating of certain things until
■theybecome commonplace, that nas developed this ease and naturalness.
I have been in contact with a lecturer who has found it to his advan­
tage to contact me at various times, but who had always sent his wife
for manuscripts, books, and various things which he wished from me.
I had noted the fact that he always sent his wife and told his wife that
I wished to see him the next time in person. He came. During the
conversation he told me how difficult it was for him to speak to a single
individual, and that he suffered greatly from self consciousness. I
asked, "But how about your lecturing?” He replied, "Oh I have no
trouble with that, <
1 can address 5,000 people and feel perfectly at
24
home.” I found out that he had begun his lecture career at l> age of
fifteen and had been at it ever since. That is another exarrtp, which
shows you how constant use of your powers develops, and how non-use
weakens.
Perhaps you, like hundreds I have contacted, have just lost all hope
that you can ever be different and have felt that your state was one you
were saddled with and could never expect to throw off. Such a convic­
tion is a false one and represents only lack of hope and faith. Just a
little added courage so that you will be able to MAKE A START, will
really help to begin a new life. The START will be the hardest. Surely
you believe that you have as much right to be free from fear and be
happy as anyone in this world, for you certainly have.
Many of the unemployed are out of work because self consciousness
with its natural lack of faith, does not permit them to show their best
in interviewing a prospective employer. You cannot blame an em­
ployer for not engaging you when he sees how little faith you have
in yourself. He is quite sure to select one who manifests confidence.
Thousands who possess real talents; great ability; are kept from
' forging ahead through not having confidence in themselves. The chief
reason why only about 5% of the people in this world prove to be
successful is because only about 5% have sufficient confidence in them­
selves TO BE SUCCESSFUL.
Why does one salesman go to some large concern who deals in
articles which run into perhaps thousands of dollars; and another
applies for a position selling caps or some small article ? I really don’t
believe any great difference would be found in the natural ability of
these two; but more in a different viewpoint and the training which has
naturally followed where real faith is displayed. It is FAITH and not
FEAR that makes it possible for people to make good in life and be
happy. And, as I haveJoldLyou, the only difference between, faith and
fear, is oneX viewpoint. Feap exists only_in YOUR MIND. Replace
. jynnr hahits of fearfor habits of iaith and,everything will not only
^ look different, but BE DIFFERENT.
One form of self consciousness causes the individual to tell startling
tales and do everything possible to call attention to himself. That per-
son longs for-recognition, has nop felt at home in doing things in the
usual way, and thereforeJias formed^ the habit described above. This
form of_self consciousness-is-called an "Exhibition Complex.” The self
cons, .s r^Hy lo n g for recognition and freedom to express them-
sclve End Ere held bEck only through this unreESonEble form of feEr.
And we find many mErriages turning out unhappily through one or
the other being self conscious. Perhaps the man loves company, has a
desire to go out a lot socially, and is held back by a wife who is timid
an d self conscious. Where a man or woman love deeply they will put
up with this form of limitation for a long time, but gradually the knot
which binds is getting looser and looser. That self conscious one had
better show more courage qltheir matrimonial venture will go on the
rocks.
Let me repeat again, the average_self conscious person has a GOOD
MTND- a "flpinp". active mind, but a mind, which is in reverse, for it
is turned on themselves in place of the outside things of life. You have
every reason to feelPROUD OF VO^TgSTiT.F.
Another trait often found in the self conscious which sometimes
causes them to be shunned is the fact that they are argumentive; often
say mean things for the purpose of lowering an individual in the eyes
of others, under the foolish belief that this will raise them in their own
estimation. But instead of raising one the self conscious frequently go
home and deeply regret what they have done. And such things cer­
tainly will cause people to avoid you.
The self conscious find it difficult to give the other person a break.
Do you know that people would love you and forget all about your self
consciousness if you would just comment on how nice they look, what
a pretty dress one has on, what a nice looking suit or tie a man may be
wearing. Say things which will make others happy and you will have
plenty of friends and be liked.
I do not feel that I need say much regarding a Superiority Complex,
for those who purchase this Course surely are not troubled in such ways.
A superiority complex represents one who possesses too much ego; to
the point of having an overdose of self confidence. They frequently
display "nerve” to the point of being greatly disliked, and the strange
part of it is they do not seem to recognize the fact that they are not
liked as they picture themselves most desirable and the life of the party.
The first step in overcoming self consciousness is to understand these
unreasonable fears'perfectly fto know that they ARE unreasonable.that
they are ONLY fanciful creations which .YOUR mind Conceives
through your imaginative powers; and to destroy all forms self-pity and
the feeling that you are hopelessly TRAPPED. If you are to build up
26
more confidence in yourself and feel proud of yourself, you will have
to begin to do things which foster confidence and pride. Playing the
baby and running away from your troubles means further limitations
and still greater unhappiness. Instead of avoiding experiences, SEEK'?—
THEM, realizing that the morejexperience and practice, the greater
your strength and development.
Build up courage through a process of exercise. Use what courage
you can muster today, and use it EACH DAY, and it will not be long
before you will find your courage has been_added to materially. Realize
that you have essentially all these powers that those you envy possess,
and that yours are merely weakened through lack of training and de- f~ /~
velopment. You will have to FORCE this training on yourself for a
time; you will not get much enjoyment out of your experiences until
you feel at ease in doing them. But keep before your_ mind the goal
you seek—UNLIMITED MENTAL EXPRESSION, HAPPINESS and
SUCCESS, and let this thought make you FIGHT to materialize them.
Realize that patience is called for, as development is naturally of
slow growth and measured by stages. You cannot have a pleasant
dream some night and wake up full of confidence and courage.
Let us suppose you were anxious to learn how to play the piano and
you arranged for lessons. Unless you were willing to pay the price in
effort you would never learn, for in the beginning progress would seem
mighty slow; and the tiresome finger exercises would seem monotonous.
But if you were in earnest, and kept in sight what that tiresome work
was going to mean to you later, the day would come when you would
experience the pleasure of playing pieces at will.
They say that one never masters a foreign language until he is able
to think in that language. That too means a lot of work and practice,
but many learn how to speak a number of languages fluently.
Not until you have paid the price in effort; not until you have
exercised yourjoental muscles untjl they are in a truly developed form;
not until you can THINK FAITH, will you be free from these .unrea- ¡C ^
sonable fears.
It would be well for you to place yourself in a position where you
were forced into the company of others and were obliged to assume
Some responsibility. This could be in the form of employment which
brought you in contact with many; it could be in the form of accept­
ing some responsibility in the form of an office in connection with
some social club; it could be through your inviting a group to your
27
T '
X ! / \ \
s' J \ ■
«*-1^
home for some social function so W&Uyou would place yourself in a
position where others would begin to invite you; or it could be through
just the many channels of daily life that are constantly open to all.
Remember thatyour objective is the establishment of CONFIDENCE
—FAITH. Faith and fear cannot live under the same roof, for they are
opposites. So to destroy fear, ignore it as much as possible, and cater to
things which will help you develop faith. Unreasonable fear should
not be argued with, for it is not worthy of your recognition. Like a
plant which will die without attention, so will fear be weakened and
pass away in time if you refuse to give it attention. Yes, I know this
will be hardjn the beginning, but courage and jiatience will bring a
rich reward. Bufiwhen facing fear, do so with just as much confidence
and, courage_as you can possibly display. Feel_that a state of confidence
actually belongs to YOU, that it is a real part of you right now. Con­
fidence has merely been pushed aside through the fear expressions you
have indulged in, just as weeds will choke the growth of the^most
beautiful flowering .plants. Begin to cultivate this "mental garden” of
yours and get rid of these weeds. The author of this Course has passed
through all these troubles youJaave been facing and has mastered the
fears^ SO CAN YOU.
HOW TO OVERCOME WORRY
•-/. >Worry is an active principle of FEAR.
We worry because we do not trust ourselves and our own powers in
facing some future trying possibility our minds picture. I say "possi­
bility” advisedly, because if you will just review the many worries you
have indulged in, you will find that so few of them have materialized
that it will make you feel very much ashamed of yourself.
_j..-fWorry means crossing your bridges before you come to them.
Worry is one of the most foolish forms of the use of energy that
you can indulge in.
^ AWorry clouds your .mind, and through it your powers of reasoning
and judgment are curtailed. Thus, if that which you worry oyer reajly
does materialize, you are,not prepared to meet it in the way you might.
Worry can NEVER be of service or constructive in nature, but is
^ ( always destructive. Worry simply means that you are drawing on your
imaginative powers in the wrong instead p f the right way. Worry,
like thie better attlhides, is simply a state of mind—and a stafe which is
28
Jt
/ J
quite sure to work against you 4nd Actually help to produce the thing
you are worrying about. In worrying you are giving to your sub­
conscious mind a picture of possible disaster, and that subconscious self
is striving to recreate that which you are giving to it.
Try to fully realize that your subconscious mind does not possess
reasoning power, buTTs guidea lay the mental pictures that ydur~con-/C*-
scious mind gives to it. You do nop wish this thing~ybu are worrying
over to actually come true, do you ? So why help to produce it.
You say, "How can my thoughts possibly change the impending
disaster?” They may not change the course of events, but they can
help to keep your mind in a state where you may find it possible to in
some way avert it. With a clear mind it is not at all unlikely that you
may think up some plan whereby the trouble will be avoided. But if
that mind of yours is confused and clouded; and you give yourself over
to depression and hopelessness, you CERTAINLY will not even con-
structly TRY to side-step it. Clear-thinking will frequently find ways
and means of avoiding trouble. Worry means just giving yourself
-yj;over.to.these negative forces and it is as much as to say to yourself,
"There is nothing .Lean do, I am doomed.”
I know it is very difficult for one who has formed the habit of worry
to suddenly destroy the power that habit has over him. It will be only
through your sitting down and listening to the voice of your own
reason, rather than the dictates of fear, that you will in time win out.
Worry is the result of your not having built up within yourself certain
powers you possess to a point where they are sufficiently strong to
f-crush it. You lack confidence, courage and control. These powers fire
nowj n j. weakened condition. How are you going to strengthen them ?
I will tell you. Every_faculty. and power we possess_can be developed
j THROUGHJJSE, orJ n j ther words,'THROUGH MEETING RE-
J
fDISTANCE AND OVERCOMING IT. Therefore, if you wish to add
to these weakened powers you must each day USE THEM, to Jhe
best of your ability, and through this form .of exercise you may be sure
that they will grow stronger. When you think about developing some
mental, power, just turn to the physical side of life for your answer. Y- A
People in,general are rather familiar with the laws of development on j
the physical plane. You recognize the fact that physical exerciseiwill
add to the. power_oL.the muscles involved in the form of exercise you
take^ You know that following a long illness you may be so we.akj.hat
you will have to stage a .comeback through first being propped up in
bed, then by sitting up straight in bed without support, etc., etc. At
29
last you get on your feet and you find your strength gradually being
restored. When your illness is at an end you are facing the convalescent
period, you are happy and picture yourself as soon being up and about
and again assuming the various forms of work and pleasure attached
to life^ The fact is, you really have a RIGHT to assume quite the same
picture regarding mental growth and development, for the mental side
of your life is governed by quite the same laws.
Men are more inclined to attach worry to the business side of their
lives^and frequently failures are attributable to this very cause. Had
such people shown real courage and confidence in meeting their trying
situation the failure might have been diverted. A clear mind frequently
j solves problems that are altogether too difficult for a cloudy, depressed
mind to master.
y ^ /W .omen’s worries are attached more to the love side of life. Unre­
quited, spurned or betrayed love, faithlessness in a lover, or his death
arethe commonest causes. A mere suspicion, sometimes withvery little
.^foundation, is enough, with certain types of women, to set up distress­
i n g nervous states, make them extremely irritable and difficult to live
with, and thus in some instances they actually drive their loved one into
the arms of another. Jealousy,is a form of fear, often without any real
reason^ that brings complete disaster.
Women, through worry. frequentlyjhrow such a cloak of protection
about their children that they fail to develop in the way they_should.
Only, through meeting trials, hard_ things, perhaps even somewhat
dangerous experiences, can children develop into strong, normal men
and women.
Women-worry over the „advancing years and through it rob them­
selves qf_the joys they might experience in the present. Worry is sure
to add to the lines and wrinkles and age them prematurely, as far as
appearance is concerned. Thus, again, they are working directly against
their best interests.
Worry can in time cause such hopelessness and lack of faith that
suicide is contemplated, and perhaps actually performed. Could these
;people but realize that the "blackness ahead” was merely due to a
wrong picture that they create throughjinreasonabje worry, I am sure
that suicides would be practically eliminatedJrom life.
YOU MAY BE SURE.that worry can be overcome. It represents only
a HABIT you have formed and itjadstsjsierely througkyour not hav-
?0
/ /
ing the proper picture of yourself, your own powers, and the life ahead
that YOU CAN MAKE YOURS if_you will but pay the price in effort.
You know that habits can be broken. We are forming habits and break­
ing them from the cradle to the grave. Why should you feel tHat the
habit of worry,is so different from others? The man who undertakes
to break the habit of smoking finds it rather difficult in the beginning,
but if he shows determination and will-power the time comes when he!
is FREE. The drug addict, probably the hardest habit there is to break,
frequently, rids himself of the terrible urge and too is FREE. Don’t
believe worry to be bigger than you are.
31
CHAPTER 4
How to Make Friends • How to Make Yourself More
Attractive to the O pposite Sex
TTA V E you been way down in the depths, perhaps had some hard
cries in the solitude of your own room, because YOU had so few
friends and were mighty unhappy in consequence? You have been
feeling real sorry for yourself, haven’t you? There are thousands of
people like you—thousands who long for friends and the warmth and
good-cheer they bring, but go on bemoaning their fate just as you have.
Your present situation is due ONLY to your lack of understanding
of yourself and your powers, and to your lack of adjustment to life.
Could you but realize that there are hundreds and hundreds of people
who would just love to be friendly with you and have an opportunity
to exchange ideas and pleasantries with you, you would then begin to
assume just a little different attitude toward YOUR loneliness.
You know there is a law in life which makes it necessary to give in
order to receive. Yes, I know you have really longed to be nice to
people and show the friendly spirit that is right now in your heart, but
you have been unable to do so merely because you have been too inter-
ested in yourself, your short-comings and your weaknesses. There has
been too much of the "I” in your life for you to manifest interest in
others, and we must be interested in others more than ourselves if we
are to possess the qualifications that are necessary to having many
friends. You have even been invited out and have undoubtedly had a
number of opportunities to meet others and thus make friends, but you
have refused these offers, in the past, if not today, because you have
been full of thoughts of self.
You have been feeling very badly because of your isolated state as
far as friends go. In fact, I am quite sure you have been indulging in a
great deal of self-pity. All of this is a form of selfishness and such an
attitude will never form real and warm friendships.
In your case there has been too much of the "I” in your life. It has
been, "How will T feel?” "What will people think of 'me’?” "Will
T be embarrassed and feel terrible if I accept that invitation I have
received ?” "What will people think of 'me’?” Your mind is con­
stantly filled with thoughts of yourself. That means that you have little
or nothing to give that would be deeply interesting to another. People
do not wish to sit and just hear about YOUR life and YOUR troubles.
32
You must contribute something stimulating and uplifting, you must
give a degree of happiness to another, if you wish to have many friends.
Friendships that are real are based on love, and it is not a love of self.
Most of those who have few friends find themselves in that con­
dition due to self-consciousness. I suggest at this point that you review
the preceding Lesson on Self-Consciousness.
"Let me live in my house by the side of the road and be a friend to
man." That poem which in the past has probably been given more
publicity than any one poem, surely does bring to our minds something
that is truly inspiring. I believe there is in all of us a strong desire to
be real friendly toward humanity, and to be of service. But too often
we feel that one must be rich and hand out money freely in order to
fulfill such a mission in life.
It has always seemed to me that people in small towns show more
of the true friendly spirit than people in large cities. In Chicago one
can dwell in a building with possibly 100 apartments in it; and hardly
know his next door neighbor. And one could actually starve to death
in that same apartment without a bowl of nourishing soup being
brought to him. The atmosphere of friendship in large cities is
chilled by the thought of gold and gain.
Yes, I know that in small towns we find jealousy and plenty of
gossip, but I can forgive much of this and lay it to the fact that there
is little in such places to stimulate the mind and give pleasure, and that
due to this fact monotony takes deep root in many of these minds.
Gossip is just a form of "indoor sport” indulged in as there is so little
which is new to discuss when two friends meet. It is my belief that the
radio has been instrumental in changing this situation somewhat. But
when it comes to some tragedy, some dire need, you will find these same
people coming to the rescue.
The desire for friendship and social life is what religion was based
upon. People like to gather in groups and discuss various subjects,
which in centuries passed, soon developed into various forms of religion.
The real basis of making friends is for you to have the feeling of
love and friendship IN YOUR HEART, and give of this freely. -We
must GIVE in order to receive. Those who are timid, long to "give”
ahd~he ~feally~friendly, but they are held back by a group of limiting
thoughts representing an Inferiority Complex. They think, "Suppose
I speak to someone and receive a cold repiy in return; suppose I offer
33
e suggestion, and it is laughed at; suppose I offer my friendship
and it is not desired by the other person.” Suppose you do all of these
things and they are NOT kindly received? What about it? You have
not committed any crime, you have nothing to regret for you have in
the right spirit offered your friendship. Under such conditions just be
too big to feel hurt. There are a few unkind people in this world, a
few who are snobbish, but you should be glad that you have found them
out and you wouldn’t wish such people for friends anyway.
When you are repulsed you haven’t lost anything but the small
amount of energy it required to speak the few words you uttered. Don't
let such an experience cause you to shut up like a clam. Let the slight
roll off of you like water from a duck’s back. The ONLY way you will
gain friends is by offering your friendship to many. Possibly out of one
hundred people you contact you will not gain more than one friend.
Just bear in mind that people have various interests in life and that you
cannot expect to find your pet interests shared by all. In making friends
you will find the same variation of opinion that we find in people who
purchase cars. If everyone were of the same opinion there would be
but one make of car.
Don’t continue to be a timid, shrinking, lonely person, for there are
just thousands who would love to have you as a friend. But to find
these you must offer YOUR friendship to many. One day I stood out­
side the building where I have my office, talking to a friend. Along
came a man who impressed me as being a professional beggar and asked
us for a dime. I turned the man down, but my friend gave and I after­
ward said to him, "I don’t believe in giving to such professional beg­
gars, for I believe it encourages a state of laziness and dependence.”
My friend replied, "My mother once told me that it was better to give
to ten beggars and have nine of them worthless, professional pan­
handlers, than to refuse ONE who happened to be actually worthy.”
Now apply this same principle to this question of making friends.
Friendship is one of the most wholesome, stimulating elements in life.
I have said one must "give in order to receive.” That is true. You
have to make another WISH you as a friend, and to accomplish this
you have to cater somewhat to that other person’s ego. In making
friends strive to FORGET YOURSELF. The average person you meet
is not interested deeply in your problems or your life on first meeting.
Compliments, kindnesses, thoughtfulness, ate to be employed in gain­
ing friends. You may say that this is a form of deceit, but it need not
be. Everyone has something in him to be admired; he has some good
54
qualities, even though he may have a number of bad ones. By compli­
menting and praising his good qualities and forgetting the bad ones,
you are not practicing deception are you? Now you must have seen
something in this one you wish~Tb~maIie a friend, or the thought of
friendship would not have come to your mind. If, after a longer
acquaintance you find that his bad qualities so far offset his good ones
that you do not care to have him for a friend, then you can gradually
drop him. Making friendships is experimental, is a sort or game, can
be made an adventure.
Be sure to have a good opinion of yourself, feel that you have some­
thing real to give, but don’t show this openly. Just have this good
opinion of self in the back part of your mind? and merely show a
wholesome CONFIDENCE. ~ ■
—■
Lincoln was possibly one of the most beloved men that this country
has ever developed. Why? Simply because he loved humanity above
himself and had a big heart. Lincoln was fair-minded, anything but
a snob, and recognized the goodness he found in men in all walks of
life, and there was no class distinction fostered in his mind. Lincoln
through his honesty made many enemies as well as friends, for he could
criticize when he believed criticism might be beneficial and was war­
ranted.
In making the suggestions I have regarding the attitude you are to
assume toward people, I do not mean that you infer that I would have
you a door-mat for people to wipe their feet on, or a so-called "easy-
mark,” that people constantly take advantage off. I wish you to stand
up for your rights, and I believe there is such a thing as "righteous
indignation.” In dealing with humanity think twice before you speak;
always try to believe the best of friends until things have been proven
to the contrary beyond the shadow of a doubt; be a loyal friend; refuse
to say mean things of friends behind their backs; in fact, you will be
loved far more if you refuse to carry scandal, even though you know
things are true.
What fighting you are going to do might better be within yourself,
for there is just a lot there you can criticize yourself for, just a lot of
imperfections which need adjusting, just many ways in which you must
make yourself over. Wouldn’t it be the better part of wisdom to expend
what energy you expect to use along fighting lines, on first making your-
self over. The bible says, "He who controlleth himself is greater than
he who taketh a city.” To have many friends you must first make your­
self over into a very friendly, wished-for person.
55
Now suppose you wish a friend to do some favor for YOU, for
you are not to grant all the favors. The only way you will accomplish
this successfully is through making that friend WISH TO DO IT.
One of the greatest desires in people is the wish to be important. Com­
pliment that friend, tell him the reason you wish him to grant this favor
is because you believe that he can do it much better than anyone else,
cause him to feel that he will be showing himself to be important by
doing it, and you will find him granting your request. But you must
be sincere, for praise without sincerity will sooner or later be found out
and you will lose your friends. I know of no better axiom to follow
than the golden rule. You cannot expect others to do things for you,
that you would not attempt for others provided the situation was
reversed.
You will make pleny of friends if you will put your own house in
order and have the right feeling toward people within yourself. Then,
with a feeling that you are quite as good as the best, and that you have
lots to offer in the way of friendship, step out, full of faith, and offer
your "friendly wares.” Friends are not likely to come to YOU, but
you must seek these friends in the various avenues of life. And always
bear in mind that there are just thousands in your same situation who
are hungry for the very friendship you have to offer.
In making friends with the opposite sex, if you are a woman, bear
in mind that man is made to feel important by your sort of depending
on him and giving him considerable responsibility in the matter. Men
more frequently love women who show signs of being dependent.
That caters to a man’s ego and this responsibility makes him feel impor­
tant. Feel that you have your part to play as a female, but don’t try
to place yourself on an equal footing with him in man’s realm of
activities. You are to make yourself desirable, and women easily won
are not so desirable. Man has quite a bit of the big game hunter atti­
tude in him; he wishes to bag game that is hard to shoot, even in his
adventures with women. Be happy and gay in man’s company, but
have a certain reserve which he dare not pass until he has proven him­
self worthy of entering that inner circle of friendship. Praise him,
compliment him, make HIM feel big, and he is sure to like you, and
perhaps in time love you deeply.
And when man is dealing with the opposite sex let him show manli­
ness, kindness, gentleness, thoughtfulness, consideration. Be quick to
praise and compliment, and do little favors. Try to anticipate her little
needs when out socially. If she smokes, be attentive to her smoking
36
requirements, such as offering her a cigarette, before taking one your­
self, and a light without her asking for it. See that she is comfortable
in every possible way. Don’t forget that the female loves attentitn,
that she lives on praise, and that she loves to have you notice new things
, she may be wearing and be told how pretty they are. Make "attention”
your second name when with women.
But if you are contemplating marriage I suggest that you be as
natural as possible and not say things and do things which you do not
intend to continue after marrige. I am sure one of the chief reasons
for matrimonial ventures going on the rocks is due to the fact that two
young people are not their real selves when going together. If they
will show just their real characters before marriage it will save just a
lot of explaining and bitter words after marriage.
Never marry with the thought that you can remould your mate after
marriage. Don’t expect any more from him or her after marriage than
you find present before marriage. If your mate does not think enough
of you to break certain distasteful habits before you marry, you may be
sure that they will not afterward. If the young man you are going with
doesn’t show signs of being ambitious and has thus far accomplished
little in life, don’t feel that after marriage you will awaken that ambi­
tion and make him into a go-getter. Your chances for future financial
security should be based on what you find in him TODAY.
Don’t make the mistake of telling all your past experiences, with the
thought that you are going to start off with a clean slate, for if some
of these could be strongly criticized, they may awaken "doubt” in the
mind of your mate and a jealousy which will make your life quite
trying. Of course if there is something which has a good chance of
coming out after marriage, then I believe it would be well to tell your
mate of it rather than for him to find it out from others. Don’t brag
about your earlier conquests, for that will arouse suspicion after mar­
riage. Just try to wipe all these past experiences from your mind and
in that way start with a clean slate and a determination to be faithful
in all ways. Unless you really feel you can be faithful; and be a one
man woman, or a one woman man, drop the thought of marriage from
your mind and just be friends.
* Too frequently physical emotions cause one to marry. DON’T
marry for such physical experiences alone, for that is not a good foun­
dation to build on, and sooner or later you will find another who may
for the moment appeal to you more deeply along physical lines and a
"triangle” or some complication is sure to arise. Marry because you love
37
your mate’s mind as well as body. And be quite sure that the person­
ality you are accepting as your mate is one which will mean lasting
happiness.
Avoid trying to dominate your mate. Married life should be a
partnership, a 50-50 proposition if it is to be a success. Talk over your
business problems with your wife; let her know just where you stand
financially so that she will be able to help you if help is called for.
The right woman will not object to making sacrifices if they are called
for, if you will just fully explain the situation to her. You two must
both fight for a common cause—future happiness, and boost each other.
And don’t forget that the wife has little household problems that will
be made easier through your showing an interest in them. Don’t say,
"I bring home the money and the household problems are YOURS.”
She can encourage you when you have business worries, and you must
encourage her when she has her worries at home.
Try to avoid living a monotonous life. Remember you are in contact
with people all day long in your business life, while she may spend
most of her time at home alone, with perhaps the exception of children
which add to her cares, and comes in contact with but few. So don’t
go home and just read the paper during the evening hours, but tell
her something about your day, for she is interested, and try to plan
some inexpensive forms of evening pleasure. If your wife has added
something to the home, enthuse over it and praise her. Remember she
does many of these things for YOU and praise is about all she can
receive in return. Often tell her how wonderful she is and how much
you love her.
Be sure to remember birthdays and anniversaries, for a woman never
forgets and is very much disappointed if you do forget.
You must both learn to give and take and show unselfishness. Have
it a matter of "One for both and both for one.”
I think one of the happiest ways to consistently save some money is
to become interested in the purchase of a home. The first step may be
just the purchase of a lot on payment plans. Then later, a loan and a
small place of your own. Or, it may be, that you will find what you
wish in the way of a home for sale at a reasonable figure. Such trans­
actions can be arranged these days for a very small down payment.
But don’t go in too deeply and have your venture a constant source
of worry. This will give you something which should be mutually
interesting and you will spend many happy hours in planning.
38
And to those who are contemplating an early marriage, or who have
recently married, let me say that I believe people should have children
at an early age, for it will help to bind your love life more firmly
together; and will also be far better for children to have parents who
are comparatively young. When we are older and more set in our
ways children can become a source of irritation in place of pleasure.
i I am sure most people will agree that a perfect marriage is repre­
sented by a nice homey-home, with children fitted into the picture.
Through people picturing children as limiting as far as their pleasure
and freedom is concerned, this event is too frequently put off until it
is rather too late. When you are old you will CERTAINLY wish you
had children to add to the pleasure of your last years, for without
them, life can be mighty lonesome. To build toward future happiness
may mean some sacrifices today, but it will be well worth while I assure
you. Selfishness will'never bring TRUE, CONTINUED HAPPINESS.
39
CHAPTER 5
How to Train Your Reasoning Power and Judgment • How
to Im prove Your M emory
TV/f"AN cannot accomplish much in the way of development or success
without giving himself and life considerable THOUGHT. Even
at an early age one can begin to make plans for his future. Even in
childhood the future is given some consideration, though at an early
age that planning represents many times rather laughable pictures. One
child says he is going to be an engineer when he grows up; another
a policeman; another a movie star, etc. A few seem even at an early
age to show more ambition and higher ideals, for we will occasionally
find one who is sure he will be president of the United States.
But unfortunately we find many who have reached manhood or
womanhood who still have no definite plans of life. They just drift,
hoping that marriage will settle things in time, as far as the woman is
concerned; or that some better job will be offered him without any
effort on his part, as far as the man is concerned. When we find such
states of thought existing it is no wonder that only 5% of people in
business and professional life are successful.
I will admit that certain undeveloped people may have a fair person­
ality. We may say of an individual "He’s a pleasant fellow to be with,
but Oh, so shallow and ambitionless.” We may be amused by a clown
at a circus, and find one clown shows more personality in his acts than
the others, but such forms of personality are not envious when it comes
to everyday life and the art of living.
Life is ACTION, thought is part of life; and life never stands still.
This life-force, including thought, can be guided into channels which
will mean PERSONALITY and the many enviable things life has
in store for those who are capable of living life successfully. The
thought-force which the average person wastes in "day dreaming,” and
useless, purposeless thinking could, if just wisely directed and mastered
place that individual among those who are envied for their personality,
charm, magnetism and success.
To illustrate the variation of life’s expressions through the vision one
has and the channels of thoughts energy is directed through:—
Harry K. Thaw had all the advantages of a rich man’s son—educa­
tion, all the advantages in life he chose to accept, which money could
buy, yet he preferred the life of the "play boy,” with its thrills, and
♦
40
tragedies, to a life which would bring to him recognition for thrift,
character and nobility. It is CERTAIN that he had all the opportunity
in the world to make himself into a beloved personality, and it was
only his viewpoint, his wrong picture of what life means, which
moulded him into the man he represents.
Now on the other hand, let us take the life of one who perhaps in
the beginning had some of the "wild ideas” which may have fos­
tered by Thaw. Jack London was called a "tough guy,” for some time
was just a bum, rode the "rods” of freight cars, panhandled, served a
short sentence in jail, but turned these experiences into profit. Not long
after some of these experiences I have enumerated above we find Jack
London being received by the very best set in California’s social gather­
ing, and being pronounced by critics as one of the greatest novelists of
his time. He wrote fifty-one books before he died and made a million
dollars.
Can’t you see that it is the direction you give your mind; the way
you direct your thoughts; that spells later a life of splendor, victory,
glorious personality; or just an everyday drab, uninteresting, colorless
life?
I am going rather deeply into this matter of thinking, planning,
directing, and thus living a purposeful life; for I am sure "personality”
to you is not going to mean just being a "good fellow” well met; but
something bigger. You do not wish to have the personality of a clown,
but a personality which will help to make your life a throbbing, active,
happy and successful affair.
I know that some have greater handicaps to overcome than do others.
Perhaps you feel that the environment is all wrong for real growth and
development. You may be tied at home through a sense of duty, and
find it difficult to express any great degree of freedom in living your
life. I run across young women who have a mother who is so selfish
that she deliberately tries to keep her girl from marrying, because if
such a thing happens she will be left alone. Others are surrounded by
rules which restrict self expression and make life uninteresting and
uninspiring. And so many write me and inquire, "What can I do?”
You may be placed in such a position. My advice is for you to not
permit these limitations to exist. Yes, I know your conscience may
bother you some if you force the issue and go against the advice of
your parents, but you have YOUR LIFE TO LIVE and, if you have
reached maturity you must not permit another to live your life for you.
such domination robs you of your personality and individuality and will
41
your life in time. I realize that parents may often think they are
t in what they are doing; they believe they are merely exercising a
proper degree of protection. But they are wrong. So, I shall say to you,
either change the environment through your asserting yourself and with
the feeling that you have a right to live your life, or remove yourself
from it. You are not fate-driven, except as you permit yourself to be.
You must be master of your own destiny. It will cause some heartaches
for a time, but you have your future to consider and must do as your
reason, possibly just taking yourself into consideration, dictates. You
can’t just continue to abide by the thoughts and suggestions of unreason­
able people, even though they do happen to be your own parents. Begin
to plan your life, earnestly search out a way so that you may open your
life to the full and free expression you are entitled to. To continue
indefinitely under such an environment will mean a dismal, unhappy
future life.
Then there is the young man or woman who has been so unfortunate
as to be born under circumstances which surrounds them with too much
love, too much money, and thus awakens no sense of responsibility,
ambition or initiative. Manytimes these people represent "only chil­
dren.” Through these advantages they may develop social charm, for
they have just lots of opportunity to express themselves along such
lines. But under such conditions a great many such lives are wasted
and they give very little to the world in general. I would not call such
people representatives of a well rounded personality, though they are
probably envied by many who would welcome such a life of non-
resistance. Of course there are a few exceptions to all such rules, but
over-loving parents and too much money do not usually help to mould
a truly happy life or an enviable career.
I am not against the accumulation of wealth, for money is POWER,
but to derive the greatest happiness from money, it should be money
that we have acquired through our own honest efforts. So don’t try
to seek some easy way to make money, for the "get rich quick” schemes
usually end in failure and unhappiness. Go on your own, make your
own way in life, and it will bring a satisfaction and good feeling that
the gifts of money can never bring.
In this lesson I have indicated that I shall tell you how to develop
YOUR mind.
Developing the mind calls for the very same forms of exercise as the
laws governing development of the body — USE. The child attends
school not just for the purpose of learning how to live his future life,
42
but more for the purpose of developing his mind so that he is capable
of thinking and thus living life in a normal manner. He studies many
subjects that he probably never uses in later life, but these hard subjects
cause him to exercise his mind—to think—and that develops him.
Thousands of people just put their minds in "slings” and never use
them except in the commonest forms of life’s expressions. They will­
ingly let others think for them. Such a mind just CAN’T develop, for
it receives no great amount of exercise.
The ONLY way to develop your mind is through USE, in other
words, through meeting resistance and overcoming it. The chief reason
why most of our well known characters in this country have sprung
from humble beginnings is due to the fact that, because they had more
to overcome than the average, they were obliged to exercise their mental
functions more than others, and that developed their powers. The
reason why the Jew seems to have a faster, more active mind, and is
usually one step ahead of the gentile all the time, is due to the fact
that ever since the days of Christ they have had persecution and limita­
tions to meet, and through their being obliged to exercise their minds
to a greater extent than the gentiles, their minds have become just that
much stronger and more active.
So if you feel that you have many obstacles to surmount, welcome
them, for if you meet them with confidence and courage it will mean a
stronger and finer type of mental development than one who hasn’t
such obstacles to rise above could possibly acquire. Turn your obstacles
into blessings.
Be well informed. To do this will mean a form of exercise for your
mind, and will also furnish you with information which will add
materially to your conversational ability. If you are lacking in confi­
dence and ambition, read biographies of those who have succeeded in
life in spite of many hardships they have had to face.
If you are lacking in perseverance, exercise that mental power
through bringing WILL to bear on it, with the assurance that by doing
so you will add both to your perseverance and will.
Don’t forget that "drifting” means weakness, and that well directed
effort means added strength. Don’t forget that I have told you that
all these powers of yours are both constructive and destructive in their
action, according to the way YOU direct and express them. If you give
your mental forces definite direction along lines which your reason
indicates is wise and constructive, you may be SURE you will gradu­
ally rise and be headed toward greater success. Development will
43
naturally seem just a little slow, but you may be SURE development is
taking place if you are using your powers constructively and creatively.
I am trying to make these lessons just as practical and plain as pos­
sible, but I wish to give a little depth to the lessons so that you will
have to do some studying, for that will be good for you. If you are in
earnest and strongly desire to acquire the knowledge I am giving you
and win, you will study hard and welcome some of the harder nuts you
have to crack. Those who eat only soft foods soon lose their teeth
you know. So don’t look for something easy to do, but tackle the hard
things with a determination to forge ahead.
Many people are guided by feelings, sensations and emotions rather
than reason. This upsets your natural balance and is both weakening
and destructive. Always rely on reason as your guide.
Reasoning is based on experience and acquired understanding. One
whose experiences have represented little in the way of knowledge
cannot be expected to have a well developed reason. You must learn
to rely on YOUR reason and judgment as much as possible. When
uncertain, take the time to brush up on the particular thing you have
to pass judgment on; ask some others, merely for the purpose of adding
to YOUR knowledge and not for the purpose of solving your prob­
lems for you and then, when you have a great deal of information
stored up, act on YOUR reasan and judgment, whether you are right
or wrong. FEAR keeps many people from making a move and render­
ing a decision. I would far rather ACT on my reason and judgment,
even though I made a mistake, than to stand still and do nothing.
Mistakes are our very best lesions, so don’t grieve over them. Trust
your reason and judgment, don’t be swayed back and forth by the
opinion of others. Have an open mind at all times, for no one knows
it all, but let the fianl decision come from you and base it on the
FACTS you have accumulated through your investigations.
In the beginining I would not advise you to act impulsively, for
quick decisions come only through long experience and practice. When
you believe you are right ACT and stand back of it until something
has happened which definitely proves you are wrong. Then accept
defeat gracefully and smile. You must learn to be a good loser, for
the very best minds make mistakes at times, as indicated a few years
ago when some of our best known financiers went down in the "crash.”
Hold fast to your confidence, in spite of occasional failures, and you
are sure to come out on top.
44
I find a great many who complain of a poor memory. This may be
due to several causes. Self conscious people many times have poor
memories, for when listening to conversation their thoughts are divided
between the conversation and thoughts attached to self. Thus, they do
not fully concentrate on what is being said, and therefore the conver­
sation does not make a deep impression. I refer you who suffer from
this form of poor memory to the lesson on Self Consciousness, and to
a later lesson I shall write on Concentration.
Another cause may be just a lack of tmst you have developed. You
must trust your memory or it is certain in time to be poor. People will
get the habit of writing down everything they wish to remember. This
is weakening to memory, for memory too is made strong through USE.
So if you have had some fear as to how good your memory is, begin
to show more confidence and you will find, through exercise, your
memory will improve. It is possible you have found that you have a
a very good memory for certain things, and a very poor one for others.
I am sure if you do a little analyzing you will find that your memory
is keenest along the lines that you give the greatest amount of exercise.
FEAR is weakening to the power of any expression or faculty.
I might suggest a few forms of exercise for that poor memory. Take
some short paragraph, or one stanza of a poem, and commit it to
memory. Every day, or if time does not permit, every two or three days,
commit another stanza. Keep this up and you will find your memory
gradually improving. Another good form of exercise for both memory
and concentration is this:—as you pass by a shop window, displaying
miscellaneous articles, take one good glance and then, after you have
passed see how many things you can recall that you saw in that window.
If you make a practice of this you will be surprised how your concen­
tration and memory in that particular will improve.
But in a nut shell the development of memory is one of USE. Rely
on your memory as much as possible and not on notes. A good memory
adds much to one’s personality, for it means calling acquaintances by
name, without the embarrassment of being obliged to ask them their
names when wishing to introduce them to another. And it means that
you can more quickly recall stories, incidents, etc., which adds to your
conversational ability. I suggest that you concentrate and listen care­
fully when you are introduced to a stranger, and if you do not get it
clearly, don’t be afraid to ask to have it repeated. Then, as soon as
possible, repeat the name to yourself a number of times so that it will
be impressed on your mind.
45
CHAPTER 6
/
How to Overcome Over-Sensitiveness, Over-Seriousness
How to Control and Direct Emotion
>
, y HAVE told you that for you to intelligently BUILD PERSON-
' ALITY it is absolutely necessary that you have a good understanding
1 of yourself. This of course means that you must be familiar with your
vNATURE, the_tendencies you, have inherited.
People who are somewhat timid and develop complexes, are sure to
possess^¡^sensitive nature. A sensitive nature represents a more_delicate,
spfspiritual form of mental mechanism. This sensitiveness means^EMO­
TION and represents far greater power than is felt and expressed by
ta^the phlegmatic. It is quite possible that you have not pictured yourself
as sensitive, for you may say your feelings are not very easily hurt, that
you do not cry easily, and that you do not see indications of such a
nature being present. But isn’t it true that you experience some difficulty
,/^L, in making quick adjustments to new surroundings; that your good
{
friends_are limited to_a few who seem to fit in withjrour^feelings and
moods and underspancLyflu ? Are you perfectly at ease in all gatherings
and with all peqple ? Can you get up in a gathering and have your
say with ease? Are you very choosy in selecting your acquaintances?
Does a question suddenly asked, confuse you for the moment ? Do you
fear you are not looking your best and rather conscious of the§
fact?
Are you quite, conscious of someja r t of your body which you feel is
noCggite perfect? Can you converse with_ease? Does a compliment
start the circulation and make your heart beat faster than usual? Are
you sensitive to criticism? Can you lose at a game without regrets or
embarrassment ? If the attention of a group isjdirected toward you does
jit cause uneasiness ? Are you able to feel quite composed when sitting
with a group of people? Do you go home from a party and say to
jyourself, "Why didn’t I say this, that or the other thing?” Can you
forget yourself completely when out socially?
If three_or four of these many questions JLhave asked seem to call
for a negative reply, you mayJae, quite sure you have a sensitive,
emotioggl nature.
But don’t let this cause you alarm or_make you feel that you are
different from others and that you represent rather a weak type, for
that.is not true. A sensitive, emotional natnrg is affine, splendid nature
but^as I havejstated, is a more delicate nature and therefore calls for
direction. A phlegmatic individual can jdrift without getting himself
46
\
into very serious trouble, but YOUR nature is SURE to pick up_ un­
reasonable _FEARSjlong the_way, if you permit yourself to thrift. And
the~fofm of HABITS which you wilL'create' through drifting, are habits
which will work againsLyQu.
Sensitiveness and emotion represent REAL POWER. Power which
will work against you if your sensitive nature is in commancT or you;
or for you^if you command and direct it. Sensitive people gradually
become more and,more introspective and turn things on themselves in
a harmful, destructive niannef, if they fail to understand and direct
these, powers. Thus they become what is termed introverts, and intro­
verts are people who suffer from SELF-FEARS. It is common for such
people to pity themselves, feel that they haven’t had a fair chance, feel
that life is rather working against them, and they can beTery miserable.
It is hard for them to believe that ^THEY are responsible for their
situation, although it is true.
It will perhaps be surprising to you for me to tell you that Napoleon
was a sensitive, emotional type. But he was. However he did not
fall into the habit of introspecting, but directed this power toward the -
accomplishment of certain definite things, such as conquest of the
world. This power he possessed ancTtiirned outwardly, made himjser-
haps the greatest fighter of all times. It is said that he was so wrapped
up in his thoughts of conquest, that he at times would not remove his
clothes, day or night, for as long as a month. A phlegmatic commander
could never have accomplished what he did. Had it~not been fo^ the I
spy_giyjng his plans to the British he probably would have won the I
battle of W aterloo and have actually subjected the world to his-rule.
That is what sensitiveness and emotion when directed in a determined
way, away from selfTcan accomplish.
Be PROUD of your nature—STOP feeling sorry for yourself—and,
through understanding and a strong determination, begin USING
YOUR NATURE in a constructive, creative way and GO PLACES.
The required changes will call for disciplining, training, direction,
putting_FEELINGS under your feet, and having FAITH that you_can
accomplish what you seek. You CAN if-rtou y iL L it strongly and
swing into confident ACTION. It is just a mattej__of destroying,one
set of,habits and forming new ones.
REMEMBER, the thought energy__you_e_xp£nd.-in having "moods”,
being depressed, indulging in self pity, showing over-anxiety, being
overserious, and dwelling on fears attached to self, IF REDIRECTED
into constructive, creative lines, will positively bring you many of the
U j.
47
things__y.au. have longed for, and materialize many of your dreams.
Strong effort will be richly rewarded I assure you.
Now why don’t you get mad at yourself for having permitted your
sensitiveness to rob you of the joys and natural gifts which life has
at all times to offer, and meet this condition in a real fighting mood.
DON’T feel that sensitiveness is bigger than you are, for if you just
realize it, you are greater than any of these feelings and sensations
which come to your mind.
Some time ago a patient related to me how he was tormented by
some of these unreasonable feelings, and I said, "Well, put an end
I to all such things.” He replied, "Why, I CAN’T, Doctor, they have
| got me by the throat.” I said in reply, "What are you, a weakling, or
just a plain damn fool?” This made him mad and he told me a few
things and stormed out of the office. Two days afterward he returned,
begged my pardon, and said, "You hit me right between the eyes with
that remark of yours, but that blow opened by eyes to the foolish
attitude I have held.” I had accomplished just what I had hoped to,
and he DID start Sighting and won a complete victory. Occasionally
I am obliged to use harsh means to open peoples’ eyes and make them
see the truth.
Then there is another enemy of man which is quite as limiting to
Vhappiness as over-sensitiveness, and that is OVER SERIOUSNESS.
Your mind pictures unreasonable worries; your fancy makes mountains
out of these pictures, and one would think that there was some kind
of a goblin waiting at every corner to devour you. Most, of these seem-
.^fy. ing troubles are due only to your fertile imagination. You cannot be
happy under such conditions. You block every natural avenue of
pleasant expression and your personality represents a gloom that most
people will try to avoid. If you will look back over your worries and
seq_how_few have actually_materialized, I am sure you will feel quite
ashamed of yourself.
You are^poorly-prepared to meet even the few worries which do
materialize with a mind which has become confused and afraid^ and
weakened and clouded, byyqur wrong thinking. If you HAVE TO
MEET TROUBLE, surely you wish your mind to be as keen and clear
as possible to work yourself out of the situation and come through
victorious. Remember GOOD thoughts cost no more than bad ones,
and they are far more profitable. So try to form the habit of indiffer-
encejtoward these things and show more FAITH IN SELF. Such a
habit wifi add materially to your PERSONALITY.
48
No matter WHAT you may have to face, face it with COURAGE^
and the belief that YOU are bigger than these negative~5iing£oF^e.
You just CAN’T express pleasing personality and be a slave to
over-sensitiveness and over-seriousness. People are not drawn toward
'such individuals I assure_you, for their very presence brings a cloud
withjt^and most people are looking for cheerful, uplifting surround­
ings and wish to leave your presence feeling that" they have in some
-"way been benefited.
People possessing "IT” are people who radiate sunshine, tact,
thoughtfulness, kindness, and make one feel comfortable and they leave
you with the feeling that they have beerPbenefited and wish to see you
again. People with "IT” represent people who possess magnetism,
charm, graciousness, and yet back of it all, a positiveness which gives
you the feeling that you cannoFdeliberately take advantage of them in
anv wav. In your eyes they are placed on a pedestal, and you love
them because, feeling that they perhaps have a little more polish, are
in some ways a more finished product than you are; and you feel that
through this contact YOU gain in many ways. Only the self conscious
pick associates that are inferior to themselves. This, gives the self
conscious a feeling of added superiority which that ljke. So tty to
select your associates from a group that you bdieve wilfadd to YOUR
well-being and future life. We learji_ through experience and actual
contactwlth things which will minister to ou^ needs.
A
■
S
o
me believe that personality is merely sex attraction. This. I cannot
believe. There can be no question but what sex enters into attractions
we have for the opposite sex, and that is perfectly normal. But to say
that sex dominates these things is putting the human and his person­
ality on a lower scale than I wish to view it. There are mental as well
as physical attractions, and we can form very close mental friendships
with the opposite sex without the-physica). being very prominent in our
minds. I believe a well-balanced person, one possessing REAL PER-
SONALITY, has formed habits of thought which classify people
according to certain definite standards. If a REAL MAN, even though
he be a real "he man,” meets a sweet, lovable, refined, yet happy and
"quite at her ease” woman, thoughts, of sex do.pot begin to pound
against his conscious, mental walls for recognition. He sees her love­
liness, her sweetness, her refinement, and admires,jt_without his mind
sinking to the levels of the animal. If his contact happens, to be one
who is loose and he rerogniy.es this fact,, then it is liable to breed the
lower orders of thoughts. Like should produce like. If he falls deeply
49
I
»
»
in love with', this) refined, sweet woman, feels that he would like to
make her his through perfectly proper legal channels, then it would not
be surprising if this love of her brought sex emotions to the front. But
even then, if he truly loved this woman, he would try to crowd these
thoughts into the background and reserve them for the proper time and
place. His respect for her would not permit him to overstep.
It is a great mistake for a man or woman to view each one of the
opposite sex he or she meets through the eyes of sex. It takes away all
the allurement and sweetness of this phase of life and makes it a
common thing, which in time, will act like a boomerang and later
weaken that force when the allurement has been lost. And too, such
an attitude toward sex makes it difficult for married people to remain
true to each other when something has arisen which causes a denial,
or semi-denial of this expression. If sex is uppermost, and one is
robbed of this expression, he has little to fall back on for the con­
tinuance of a happy marital state.
SEX is a perfectly normal expression of one’s love life. Yet there
are those who view it from quite the opposite angle. Many write to me
stating they detest it, that it is repulsive to them, that they wish it
never existed. Such people have, through some experience, some sug­
gestions from mothers or fathers who have tried in the wrong way
to direct their children away from trouble, or through some unpleasant
experience on the honeymoon, felt this was a sin, that it could lead
only to some form of misery, or that this side of life meant an animal
procedure which meant pain. Others, of the feminine sex, have devel­
oped an acute fear of childbirth, which of course takes away from the
pleasure of sex life. ANYTHING which makes it impossible for a
married couple to view this expression through the eyes of LOVE
and give themselves over to its natural enjoyment, will in time breed
sex antagonism and complexes.
Through the gates of sacredness having been broken down to a great
extent by the youth of today, sex has been made too common a thought
and practice. The pendulum has swung too far to the left. However,
I firmly believe that this will in time be converted into a blessing; for
the mothers of today will have a far better understading of this subject,
will not hesitate to inform her children of the pitfalls; and I am sure
in time that pendulum will swing back to "middle ground” and the
present experiences thus prove profitable.
The old fashioned mother was too modest, too sensitive aboutprop­
erlypreparing their children for puberty, and thus the child was obliged
50
*
4 1
f <
i
to go out into the world and learn the secrets from the wrong source.
Understanding is the very best weapon the parent can give to a child
to prepare him or her in meeting life. Many very fine books have been
written on this subject which will make it possible for a parent to
prepare a~child in a delicate, yet comprehensive, way. Parents fre-
quently fail to realize that children are~jike putty or clav in the hands
! of the .potter, and that they have a very definite responsibility in the
; development of their children. Young children are imitators and the
1 personality they are forming is to a degree"YOUR PERSONALITY. ^
Sex is NORMAL. Sex should not be looked upon as some deep
secret which is to be hidden away and not talked about. The better
understanding we have of this subject tire better off we are.
To those who are contemplating marriage let me say:—Young lady,
DON’T fear sex, look upon it as the culmination of LOVE. Do not
fear the results, such as later bearing children, for that too is perfectly
normal and millions of women have passed through childbirth and a
few days afterward are cheerfully talking about when they will have
their next child. It isn’t anything to fear I assure you. Nature prepares
you for the momentary pain which you will bear, and with modem meth­
ods, the chance for dying is so very remote that you should not give it
an instant’s consideration. You face far more danger of dying through
just making a trip to the downtown district of your city, than in facing
childbirth. If your mother has rather poisoned your mind against sex,
she has done this believing~sEe is protecting you. Just forget all she
has said at the time of marriage.
Young man, be kind and considerate in introducing your bride to
this side of your love-life. Do not in any way frighten her. If she
shows great signs of fear, see if you cannot induce her to visit some
kind-hearted, understanding physician with you. He will help rid her
mind of fear. You can easily spoil your future love-life through
thoughtlessness and selfishness.
I believe this is a good place to say a few words_about EMOTION. A.
¿J- Emotion is the motive power of life. Emotion is one of those hidden i"'- y-
forces within us which w eleel but cannot see. LeLme quote from an
address made^by Charles W. Eliot, when he was President of Harvard
College:—
"Harvard stands strongly for the distinction of the individual. It
is in the highest degree individualistic in its development of freedom
51
I
' I
>
and efficiency. But it is also collective, fostering a spirit of fellowship.
And it believes just as much as ever that the motive powers of the
world are feelings, emotions, sentiments and loves.
"During the last fifty years we might almost say that these feelings
have become a sort of religion with us—a religion of serviceableness
to the world. And we don’t believe, at Harvard, that men can be of
service to the world unless they hold to these principles of efficiency,
truth, justice and freedom.”
So you see for years the better teaching has indicated that personality
is partly built upon unselfishness, and that well-directed, CON­
TROLLED EMOTION is the background of life’s higher expressions.
EMOTION, and, more particularly the LOVE emotion, is the power
which drives the wheels- of life. It makes the individual by causing him
to feel it worth while to become a distinct and acknowledged person­
ality^ Those whom it never warms and animates remain indifferent,
and those from whom the object of affection has been removed soon
lose their attractiveness and influence. To love is to live; to love not
is to die.
Emotjon is found in the effervescent; those who seem to show
animated life, for emotion is to a great extent life. One bubbling oyer
.jwith love £or humanity in general, is bubbling over with emotion.
Some of the best things in life have been accomplished by men and
women while under the influence of some deep love-emotion.
i ,
But like the throbbing engine on the track, one must keep his hand
on the lever and guide and direct that power. Emotion can get one
*~-/T
ftinto lots of trouble, or can prove, a real blessing. So again, let me say,
s/% that it is through UNDERSTANDING that emotion becomes a_tre-
Emotion is accumulative in its action, therefore calls for wise expres­
sion;, To fear to express emotion; to hold back and through self con­
sciousness or any other form of unreasonable thought, fail to give
emotion expression, means an accumulation which will cause tenseness
and nervousness and thus take away from your happiness and person­
ality. The four chief avenues for emotional expression are:—work that
you love; play that you enter into emotionally; a religious attitude in
\j,which emotion is expressed; and sex life. Where one or.two of these
avenues are blocked, strive to throw greater emotion into those avenues
which remain.
To repress emotion completely will cause you to feel like a boiler
52
{
overloaded with steam, about ready to burst. And that will make you
an unpleasant personality to be around. Give emotion expression under
your direction, give it play, but have control and will power in evidence
so that you can put the brakes on it when you feel you have gone far ,
enough. Learn how to direct emotion intelligently through experience
uncontrolled expressions of
and practice.
Some .of -the destructive, misdirected
emotion are:—Deep, uncontrolled sorrow; regrets; self-condemnation;
and all of the unreasonable fears, such as: worry, anxiety, apprehension/^ JTy^
over-seriousness, over-¿ensitiveness. self consciousness, uncontrolled
anger.~etc., etc!
Constructive emotions wisely directed are always beneficial; while
/destructive emotions are sure to be harmful to you in every
THINK .CONSTRUCTIVELY, ' p r f „
53
CHAPTER 7
How to Develop Confidence • How to Develop Courage, the
Foundation of Personality Power
T F you wish to express a pleasing, magnetic personality, you just
MUST be an OPTIMIST. And not only will optimism make YOU
and those you contact far happier, but it will help to carry you through
trials and win, and will add materially to your success in life.
A very good friend of mine, a Southerner, with just lots of gracious­
ness and charm, is a born optimist. He never worries, never views
things seriously until the time comes to meet some obstacle with deep
thought, but feels within him a deep-rooted confidence which says—
"I am perfectly capable of meeting trouble, and shall not trouble
trouble until it is actually upon me.”
This man is a stock broker, and I am sure you realize how the bottom
just fell out of their business completely following the market crash.
But he was undisturbed. Instead of sitting down with a long face and
bemoaning his fate, he went out and located two or three unusually
good stocks which he knew he could recommend, and he sold these to
those whom he found having a little money left. And he made a good
living, while his friends who were stock salesmen were coming to him
to borrow some small amount to get a meal with. He was welcomed
in offices, for it brought to them good-cheer, hopes for better times,
and actually instilled confidence in the minds of many whom he con­
tacted. His smile and hearty greeting never deserted him for a moment.
And HE sold, where others failed.
Now consider the case of another man who called on me in the early
part of the depression. He was a man 65 years old, had lost everything,
even to the home he and his family lived in. He was frightened, lost
his confidence and nerve completely, but through the strong urging of
a relative had promised to visit me. He told me his story, and it was
a pretty bad situation I will admit. He had suddenly, almost over night,
been transformed from a man worth perhaps two million, to one who
hardly knew where his next meal was coming from. After conversing
for some time he said—"Doctor, I can see NO WAY OUT and my
better judgment tells me that the only logical thing to do is to walk
down to the lake and jump in.” I replied, that is the reasoning of
FEAR, not judgment. I spent two hours with that man on his first
visit trying to show him how to view his situation. Naturally I told him
54
that in thinking about jumping in the lake he was showing a cowardly
attitude and was most selfish. That he was leaving not alone the
burden of support on his wife and invalid child, but a tragedy, along
with nasty publicity, which they perhaps would never be able to live
down. At the end of the visit I saw some little symptoms of hope. As
he left I told him to forget all about the money he had lost, for that
was a minor part of his problem, but to be determined to regain his
hope and confidence and I knew he would come out all right.
Well he saw me a number of times and did gradually regain his
faith in himself. Then I did not see him for something like three years,
when I accidentally met him on the street. I greeted him cordially,
asked him how things were going, and with a smile he replied,—"Not
so bad, last year I made $50,000.00 and we are all quite happy.” He
said he was just a little ashamed of himself for not having visited me
and expressed to me his gratitude for having saved him from the "lake.”
He had again swung into the business of making money, and he just
hadn’t had time to even call on me. But he meant well.
My friend, doesn’t all this prove to you the real value of Optimism ?
Optimism is merely FAITH. It permits us to see the brighter side of
things instead of viewing the flaws and weaknesses. I find people who
say they are afraid to be optimistic for fear they will suffer from dis­
appointment. Well I would rather suffer from disappointment follow­
ing a reasonable form of optimism, than to be in a depressed state con­
tinually and through it actually rob myself of the chance for success.
Whether you are optimistic or pessimistic it is an expression of
HABIT. It doesn’t cost a cent more to be optimistic than pessimistic;
and I assure you optimism will bring you far greater happiness and
success in the long run. Optimism is just seeing the doughnut instead
of the hole in it, as the old saying goes. See yourself in an optimistic
light. It will cheer you up and make a lot of things possible to you
that you will not even be able to see through the clouds of pessimism.
Optimism will mean adding to your personality in a very material way.
People like optimists, but strive to avoid pessimists.
An optimist goes about shedding sunshine and no one knows just
how many minds a real optimist may change through his cheery, en­
couraging words, who were on the brink of giving up all hope. An
optimist is a missionary of sunshine. A pretty good calling to be
engaged in, don’t you think? A died-in-the-wool pessimist is an
over-serious, selfish, unattractive piece of humanity that serves no one
and adds nothing to the lives of others.
55
Be determined to convert yourself into a TRUE OPTIMIST, for
it will bring joy to YOUR soul, will add materially to your chance for
advancement, and will make you loved by many. OPTIMISM is one
of the cardinal virtues you should possess in developing personality.
Be determined that henceforth you will strive to picture only the
good, the strong, the beautiful in yourself and life and that you will
cater to that side and ignore the flaws and sordid side just as much as
you can. There is nothing wrong with LIFE, but man’s faulty view­
point sometimes so twists the natural into an unnatural situation that
it LOOKS WRONG TO HIM. Life is always ready and willing to
serve you if you create within yourself the right attitude toward
RECEIVING its blessings, and realize that earnest work toward a
definite goal WILL in time crystallize it into reality.
Confidence merely represents FAITH. The trouble with most people
is that they find it difficult to show a strong degree of faith in a thing
that cannot be demonstrated and proven beforehand. Columbus sailed
on toward the land his mind pictured as existing in the face of strong
opposition and even threatened mutiny. Had his faith wavered, things
would have been quite different. Calhoun while at college openly
avowed that he would some day sit in the Legislature, in spite of the
laughs and taunts of his fellow students. And his ambition we know
was realized. Do you suppose the financiers of this country stopped
to have certain big moves they were constantly gambling on proven to
them ? No, their minds pictured the various things as possible and with
great faith in themselves and their venture, they threw their whole
selves into it with never a thought of defeat in their minds. Read
the biographies of various people and you will find in many cases
these people expressed faith at a very early age that they would succeed
in the various things their minds created for their futures.
Is there any GOOD reason why YOU should not have faith in
yourself and YOUR future? Is there any logical reason for believing
that YOU cannot possess a pleasing, winning personality? You may
form weak excuses for these things not coming to pass in your life, but
those excuses are only those offered by the form of fear, "doubt.” And
if you believe you cannot succeed, naturally you fail to put forth the
effort required to obtain it, for there is always present in your mind the
thought, "Oh, I can’t really accomplish it, so what’s the use of trying?”
Such thoughts build up barriers you find it difficult to surmount. But
do you realize that these "barriers” are really only fanciful creations
your own mind conceives? They seem real from your viewpoint, but
56
they are NOT, for others through life have proven IT CAN BE DONE.
You, through your lack of faith, are placing unreal limitations on your­
self. You don’t say to yourself, "If others have done it I CAN,” but
you are thinking, "Well I don’t possess the natural qualifications these
others have, for I have perhaps inherited this, that or the other thing
which makes these things impossible.” That is just YOUR viewpoint,
YOUR lack of faith. It is just the difference between FEAR and
FAITH. It is all in the viewpoint. All this has not suddenly come
about, but it is the result of habits you have formed through your not
believing in yourself as you should.
Is there any GOOD reason why YOU should not believe that you
are quite as good as the best ? Is there any reason for you to continue
to express a negative personality and remain in the rear ranks of life?
ABSOLUTELY NOT. If you will just awaken to a realization that
YOU CAN DO THINGS, and manifest more FAITH IN YOUR­
SELF, you will begin to move forward and upward. It isn’t lack of
opportunity, for the determined who possess faith MAKE their own
opportunities. It isn't that you are some step-child of life’s for life
plays no favorites I assure you. Life says to you:—"Here are all the
elements necessary to a wonderful personality, recognition and success,
will you come and get them?” But because it has required EFFORT,
and you have not had the degree of FAITH to fight for what is right­
fully yours and to believe you can have it, you have drifted along tak­
ing the worst of it, and, the sad part is, believing that you can’t do
otherwise.
Begin to express what faith you can, strive to use that faith EACH
DAYto the best of your ability, and you will gradually find the flimsy
foundation which your fears have been built on will start to crumble
and“fall, and that faith in time will be your possession. Again, it is
a matter of DEVELOPMENT THROUGH USE.
And now a word about COURAGE.
W
—— C
And now what is it that makes impossible for people to show great
courage? The secret lies in one’s being able to FORGET HIMSELF.
You will find naturally timid people rushing into a burning building
and showing unusual courage in striving to save a loved one. At such
moments those who have deep love for another forgets himself com­
pletely and only thinks of the safety of that dear one. Undoubtedly
fear creeps into the minds of such people for a moment, but REAL
COURAGE isjiot fearlessness, but doing something brave in spite
of his fears.
57
“V
During the last war I read about an act of bravery that impressed
me deeply. The boys had gone "over the top” for a charge on the
enemy. They fought for a time and then returned to their trenches.
Realizing that the Germans might make a counter attack periscopes
were freely used to detect a possible advance as quickly as possible. One
young man in looking through the periscope saw at no far distant point
one of his comrades writhing in agony out there in no-man’s-land. He
had been left for dead, but was in reality very much alive, but so
crippled that he could not crawl back to the trenches. This young man
fought with his fears, for he wished to save that comrade, but his fears
pictured the possibility of death. He stood it as long as he could and
then, with a shout, went over the top and dragged that comrade to
safety. The way this story was told made it possible for me to go
through all the various emotions the young man experienced while
fighting with himself.
i
But we are not often called upon to risk our lives, but merely to
show a reasonable degree of courage in everyday existence. A hard
thing confronts us, something which merely represents contact with an
individual to discuss some matter that we have not previously broached
this man on. Perhaps to apply for a position, perhaps to make some
sale, perhaps to talk over finances. One often spends hours, perhaps
days, striving to awaken the courage to perform such a task. One decides
to go and before entering the building this man’s office is in, he may
walk around the block several times, striving to bolster up his courage
and going over in his mind just what he is going to say. He expends
wastefully, sufficient energy to see a dozen such prospects. And the
reason he goes through all this suffering is because he doesn’t trust him­
self. He is looking ahead toward possible embarrassment, wondering
just how this man will meet his proposal. He views it as he might a
life and death matter.
"The coward dies a thousand deaths, the brave but one.” Analyze
these emotions the timid experience and we find NO REAL REASON
for their existence. Such fears are most unreasonable. Why should
you fear meeting another human ? Just because YOU permit yourself
to feel inferior to him. Unless you were making a call on someone for
the definite purpose of swindling him, you have a right to feel that you
are doing him a favor, for if your purpose is just and fair and right,
YOU ARE. Again, you are invited to some gathering, and if you are
timid your reaction to the invitation is one of fear. Again, WHY?
And again, because you haven’t a good enough opinion of yourself.
58
If you wish to overcome FEAR and add to your courage, MEET
YOUR FEARS face to face and refuse to let them dominate you.
When facing some such fear refuse to feel that you are facing death,
don’t look upon the object of your fears as something tremendously
hard, don’t feel that you are going "over the top,” or entering a burn­
ing building to rescue someone. ALL you are facing is your own wrong
viewpoint. A tiny fear, if catered to, can soon take on the proportion
of a mountain. You are a great big, fine, wonderfully courageous per­
son, if you will just BELIEVE IT and act on that belief—and FORGET
SELF. Feel that YOU ARE BOSS—not fear. The exercise of courage
will add to courage I assure you. These fears have ONLY the power
that YOU GIVE TO THEM.
Fear is due to your drawing on your IMAGINATION in the
WRONG way. Unreasonable fear, is always imaginative. So a big
help to the elimination of fear will be for you to understand WHY it
exists and just how to use your imagination constructively.
If you are the possessor of an unpleasant personality you may be
SURE that IMAGINATION has played a very big part in its forma­
tion. We must imagine, or mentally picture a thing, before it exists.
WE are the builders of our life’s expressions, and we cannot blame
another, except perhaps for the suggestions we receive in childhood
and have permitted to continue to exist through habit, for our view­
points of self and life.
My definition for imagination differs materially from that which
you will find in your dictionary. I would say that Imagination is a
complex exercise of the mind, by means of which various conceptions
are combined together, so as to form a new whole. So the conceptions
can be regarded as the material from which the new creations are made.
Thus, through Imagination, you take these materials and create them
into images of yourself which represent you in an adverse, inferior
light; or in an exhalted or superior light. And through exercising these
thoughts in the form of actions, you impress on your mind certain
definite things until they at last take on the form of HABIT.
If you would possess these various thoughts and actions which go to
make up a PLEASING AND MAGNETIC PERSONALITY, it is up
to you to begin to draw on your imagination in ways which will picture
you in this new light. Thoughts are things, by some, considered a
fluid, just as electricity is a fluid, and the thoughts you think, do in
time create the thing they picture, when it is within the range of pos­
sibility.
59
(
\ \
Your conceptions can be nicely\corrimred to shapeless stones, as they
exist in the quarry, which requireyittj'e more than mechanical labor to
convert into common dwellings, palaces or temples, under the command
of our architectural genius. What we create is governed by our under­
standing and how strongly we have developed our power of imagina­
tion. I again stress the point that you MUST have a reasonable under­
standing in this matter of remoulding your life; just as an author must
be thoroughly familiar with his subject if he is to write a scientific,
exact account of things. It is for THIS VERY REASON that I am
striving to help you build a FIRM FOUNDATION for your imagina­
tion to work on and for the building of that future improved self.
Mere brief facts and exercises would not be sufficient to round your
personality out as I would wish to see it. You must have a GOOD
REASON for doing things; you must understand WHY you are doing
things; then the exercises will have meaning and count for something.
Walt Disney had to work out cartoons in his imagination, in all
their details, before he could produce them successfully. He first con­
ceived an IDEA, then began drawing on his imagination, and he did it
so well that he made millions on them.
Clarence Darrow, considered as this country’s greatest criminal
lawyer, really began his career at the age of five, when he felt he was
cruelly treated and that an injustice had been done. This developed in
his mind a strong dislike for injustice and he decided to become a
lawyer and do what he could to correct such practices. He was never
a man who craved riches, and I have personally known of his accept­
ing some case where gross injustice was being done, without a fee, or
at most a very small one, because the seeming injustice riled him. You
see how the injustice, humiliation and what he felt was cruelty, he
suffered from at the age of five, started him drawing on his imagina­
tion and his splendid career was the result. And what caused all this
was the fact that his teacher in school boxed his ears before the other
children of his class.
Just so, some very little thing may have started YOU to thinking
about yourself in an inferior way, and was the means of your express­
ing some of the limiting habits you have today.
So please gather from this short talk on Imagination, that this force,
plus UNDERSTANDING, is going to make it possible for you to
change your life very materially, if you will just USE THIS POWER
in an understanding and constructive way. Begin to picture what you
DO WISH, and refuse to dwell on the things YOU DO NOT WISH
TO BE A PART OF YOU, but that you fear MIGHT happen.
60
li
! /
CHAPTER 8
How to Use the Power of Suggestion • How the Proper
Use of Suggestion Makes You A M agnetic, Positive Person
T AM quite sure that you have some friend or relative that you and
others view as "MOODY.” If you feel you wish to ask a favor of
that one, you try to find him or her in the RIGHT MOOD. And if a
party is planned you may try to find ways and means to not include
this "moody individual” in your list. Not because you really dislike the
person, but because if he or she happens to be in the "wrong mood”
you feel that it might put a damper on the fun.
A "moody person” is an unstabilized, emotional person who permits
feelings to rule his_life. He acts the way he “feels” without placing any
restraint upon it, and not giving one bit jof consideration as to the effect
it will have on others. A great many such people cannot see their own
faults, and are hurt when someone calls attention to their disagreeable
personality. Then there are others who do recognize the presence of
this unpleasant habit, but feel they have no power of control over it.
If you are a victim of this habit RESIST the irritation or depression
you feel at times, and strive to ACT the part of a normal, natural indi­
vidual, no matter HOW YOU MAY FEEL. You have given way to
these feelings for so long that they have developed considerable
strength, and it DOES take real effort to down them. At such times
try to STOP THINKING ONLY ABOUT YOURSELF AND YOUR
PEELINGS, and give a little consideration to others. If you will learn
toTurri away from self and be more interested in outside things, you
will break this bad habit in time. It is a form of emotionalism which
can be conquered. When you feel such a spell coming on get mentally
busy with something of a constructive character; put on your hat and
take a long walk, pay a visit to someone who is in a far worse state than
yourself; do ANYTHING to get your mind away from yourself and
YOUR troubles. Practice will destroy this bad habit if you are in earnest.
It is not normal for you to react to life in a destructive or unnatural
way. If you have been doing so you may be sure that the fault lies
within yourself. You have not VIEWED LIFE in the way you should.
I find a great many people sitting around and complaining about life;
how hard it is; how many flaws there are in it; until they have the
HABIT of viewing everything from the standpoint of flaws and imper­
fections. Go to your florist’s and select the prettiest rose you can find
61
\
there, and if you study it carefully you WILL find some flaws. But
how much better it is to get the full enjoyment out of that rose by
holding it away from you and exclaiming—"What a beautiful rose.”
You can spoil all the lovely things of life if you look for the flaws.
Place a thin dime over each eye and you can shut out the sun. People
who have this habit of searching for the flaws are robbing themselves
of the sunshine of life, and are living just in a cloudy, drab atmosphere.
It is meant for us to have some battles to fight; some hard things to
meet; for without it we would be characterless. It takes hard things to
develop us. One whose life is made a “bed of roses” CANNOT be a
strong, combative and happy person. Too many have wishbones instead
of backbones, and because "wishing” fails to get them the things they
desire, believe that life is all wrong. There are definite laws governing
the living of life and unless we comply with them we are SURE to be
unhappy, unsuccessful and have an unpleasant personality. We become
envious of those who have worked hard and do enjoy the good things
of life, calling them lucky, and we resent the fact that WE are material­
izing but little. Life gives us what we work for, fight for, and when
we become strong, what we take. Some feel that life owes them a living
without expending much effort; others KNOW LIFE OWES them a
living, but realize that this can only be procured through EFFORT. We
usually receive what we deserve.
If you are going to rather hate life, how do you expect to be on
friendly terms with it? You must become interested in life, must study
it and, if you feel you have not been receiving what you are entitled to,
find out wherein you have failed. It is YOUR FAULT, you may be sure
of that, so begin that study through studying yourself. Unless you are
deeply interested in life you cannot express a pleasing personality, for
personality is based on the way we express LIFE.
You say you have tried, and life has turned you down? Well if this
is true I can only say that either you did not try hard enough and show
sufficient faith; or you did not understand perfectly the thing you
attempted to do, and in consequence failed.
Admiral Richard Byrd was turned down by the Navy. But that did
not discourage him. He found ways to express this desire of his along
a little different line, and ended up by being one of the most widely
known admirals who has ever lived.
Caruso’s mother went barefooted to pay for his lessons. Have you
put that sort of unselfishness into YOUR efforts? I doubt it. There is
62
! ;
always to be found a way to express life to its fullest and reap tb
promised reward, if you will fight away from disappointment and pm
tremendous effort into your attempts to win. Life’s storehouse hasn’t
a wide open door where anyone can enter and take its stored up bless­
ings at will without effort. But the right kind of understanding and
effort will furnish you with a key which will unlock that door so that
you may enter.
To fit into life harmoniously work a reasonable number of hours each
day, earnestly and honestly and interestedly; have a little time left for
recreation, or to indulge in some hobby you have; sleep a reasonable
number of hours daily; and just KNOW that things are little by little
worEngThemselves out for your best good. I shall go into more detail
regarding some of these things in later lessons.
There is a very simple rule you can follow in bringing PERSON­
ALITY into your social and business life, that is, ALWAYS MAKE
THE OTHER PERSON FEEL BIG AND RELEGATE YOURSELF
INTO THE BACKGROUND. Think well of yourself, but in outward
expressions make it appear that the one you contact is fine and wonder­
ful. EVERYONE IS made happy, and you will make a friend, by your
MAKING HIM FEELBIG.
THE POWER OF SUGGESTION.
THE POWER OF SUGGESTION.
This is a very important lesson, for it is suggestion in one form or
another which moulds our lives, and the power which will make it
possible for you to adroitly mould others into your way of thinking.
From the time you enter this world until you die, suggestion is play­
ing a part in your life. Your environment, the training you receive in
childhood, your associates, the character of the books you read, the
daily newspapers, the plays you go to; in fact every contact in connec­
tion with life; carries to your mind SOME SUGGESTION which you
dwell on, to a greater or lesser degree and extract something construc­
tive or destructive from it.
Some years ago I occasionally ate at a certain Tea Room where there
was a very beautiful and talkative parrot. One evening in paying this
Tea Room a visit, I noticed that the parrot was missing and I asked the
proprietor what had become of it. She told me that she was obliged to
remove it as a number had refused to come to her place with the parrot
there, as they feared they might contract a disease supposed to be con­
tracted from parrots, which the newspapers were featuring at that time.
63
So many accept some suggestion and permit the thought to run away
with them and make them miserable. For some reason we are all prone
to accept a suggestion picturing FEAR, and slow in accepting one
picturing FAITH.
YOU have permitted many suggestions to enter which have no busi­
ness to be there, and these suggestions have caused you to be sensitive,
or too serious, or to form pictures of yourself which have robbed you
of the personality you would normally express. We find a great many
unkind, even mean people in life, people who enjoy seeing another
squirm, and they will very deliberately say something to hurt that
sensitive person, not realizing that this single thrust may be the means
of causing that one to lose her self respect, or self reliance; and cause
her to be very unhappy for years to come. If that has happened to you,
you merely became the victim of an unkind suggestion. NO ONE is
perfect, you HAVE defects, we all have, but because you have some
imperfection that is no reason for you to dwell on the imperfection in
place of the many good qualities you have, and thus make you so con­
scious of yourself that you are not able to just be yourself and enjoy
life. If you can JUST BE YOURSELF, and not permit the many sug­
gestions you receive from yourself and from things outside of yourself,
to have an adverse influence on you, you will then express a nice person­
ality. It is when we: are NOT OURSELVES that we take on things
which others dislike.
Through the suggestion brought to your mind and others; love begets
love; friendliness brings friends; success brings added success. Things
we become interested in and express are added to constantly. So
become INTERESTED IN YOURSELF from a little different angle;
be interested in developing more and more personality; and the interest
you show, along with the suggestions it brings to your mind, will add
day by day to your personality. Refuse to think about yourself in a
selfish manner. Think of yourself only in terms of constructiveness and
creativeness and added power; and forget that little, fearing, shrinking
you completely.
Perhaps you say, "But I can’t think of anything I could take a deep
interest in at this moment.” That is merely because you have thought
of yourself and your reactions for so long that you have formed the
habit of not being thoroughly interested in outside things. Or you may
say, "I believe I might become interested in such and such a thing, if
I could just feel comfortable in doing it.” If this is true, FORCE your­
self to analyze, study and express that particular thing, in spite of the
fact that you may feel you are not getting any real enjoyment out of it.
64
By doing this tor a time and giving it what thought you can, the o
stant suggestion will gradually turn your mind more and more av_j—
from self and on that particular thing you are doing. And in time you
will learn to love to do it. When one has gotten out of the habit of
thinking about outside things he has to redevelop a taste for them.
Many of these things are acquired tastes, just as we learn to like olives,
and constant expression will cause you to like them more and more.
Learn to control and direct the suggestions you contact. If it is
something which you believe is natural and will minister to your best
good, accept it freely. But if it is something which is depressing or
brings fear to your mind, reject it and refuse to dwell on it. You can
in time form a habit in your subconscious mind which will act on these
suggestions without your conscious knowledge, just as the heat of one’s
home is regulated by a thermostat.
A little study will make you realize that the good or ill you receive
from a certain suggestion does not proceed so much from the good or
ill possessed by the thing itself; as upon the train of thought or feeling
it engenders. Although suggestion usually enters through the conscious
mind, we may not at the time be entirely conscious of it, for we have
formed certain habits which permit these things to enter without
resistance. So you see the only way to safeguard yourself from destruc­
tive suggestions is to rid your mind of the soil which will be receptive
to their acceptance and growth. Rid your mind of all unreasonable fear
and you may be SURE, depressing suggestions will not find root.
REFUSE to believe yourself bad or weak or inferior or limited. You
haveTnadF mistakes in the past undoubtedly, but your mistakes can be
turned into blessings if you will let them be examples or lessons in
guiding your future thought or acts. Don’t let mistakes crush you;
stop indulging in self condemnation; believe in yourself and your
future; open the doors to advancement by showing very real hope and
faith; and you will find your unpleasant, unprofitable personality being
transformed into something which everyone will have to recognize and
like.
Don’t suggest to yourself that your personality must be just like so
and so’s, for there are no two people with just the same nature or in­
heritance. To be just an imitator would be too "parrot like’’ to have
much depth. Study YOUR NATURE and then if you wish, you can
form a composite personality for your guidance, by taking something
from this, that and the other one which you believe would fit in with
your nature and compose a splendid personality.
65
Are you aware that today the movie colonies have SCHOOLS FOR
THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE INDIVIDUAL PERSONALITY
of the person they are striving to mould into a star? In this school
they do not attempt to build up something artificial, but strive through
study to help that student express that which is a real part of them in
a way which will be individual, but pleasing to an audience. It is
PERSONALITY people pay their good money to see.
Harold Lloyd brought a new type of personality on the screen than
people were accustomed to see; with his monkey antics, and his horn
rimmed glasses, and his bubbling, enthusiastic mannerisms, and he
went over big and made a fortune. He studied out this character he
represented and created it through his imagination and thought. He
does not wear glasses in private life, but is an enthusiastic, laughing,
bubbling person. You see he fitted a character to his natural bubbling
life which was laughable and different.
Aimee Semple McPherson had nothing really new in the matter of
religion, but she dressed in a certain manner, built up scenery back of
her, and then expressed old thoughts in a new mannerism, enthusiastic­
ally, dramatically, and convincingly, and they say in eighteen months
made a million dollars. It was her imagination that made this possible.
She realized that people were impressed by things which played on their
emotions, and she JUST GAVE IT TO THEM AND MADE THEM
PAY FOR IT. It was PERSONALITY alone which turned the trick
for her.
Now begin to draw on YOUR imagination, build up certain definite
mannerisms which you believe will APPEAL TO PEOPLE, and make
them like you; and make this new life a REAL part of your life, and
not just a characterization of some mythical thing, and you will too go
over big. But you must be in earnest and not be just playing a part,
or your success will be of short duration. Act out this part well, and
you will become that person in time, through the power of HABIT.
Be sure to fit the personality you first imagine, into the nature which
you as an individual possess.
Do you know what defeats more people than anything else? "I
CAN’T.” So many people tell me they strongly desire a certain thing,
but end up by stating that they just know they can’t materialize it.
No form of success was ever built upon “I CAN’T.”
I have told you I wish you to forget yourself to a great degree, but
I wish you to THINK just a lot of "I CAN, I WILL,” without
66
expressing it outwardly so that people will think you egotistical. I
want you to bhLlEVITIN YOURSELF and in your ability to material-
ize reasonable desires. You have just as much right to believe that
YOU can express real personality; that YOU can do things, that any­
one else has done. Suggest "I CAN” to yourself and forget "I CAN’T”
and gradually you will find this force becoming more and more potent.
Don’t get discouraged in your efforts. Perserverance is always called
for. The race is always to the strong and persevering. Perseverance can
be strengthened through USING just all the perseverance you can
command each day. Thus, through exercise, you will add to it. If
you have drifted in the past and to a great extent sought lines of least
resistance, of course your perseverance is weak—through non-use—but
that doesn’t mean you have lost that power which is inherent within
you. It is simply WEAK, remember that, and it CAN BE STRENGTH­
ENED through use and exercise.
My friend, your life IS to a great extent in YOUR HANDS, and
I am sure if you will follow my directions closely and PERSEVERE,
that you will make yourself over into a personality which will represent
real manhood and womanhood and be appealing; and you will be
sought after and respected.
67
CHAPTER 9
How to Make A Good First Impression • How to Im prove
Your Manner of Speech and the Pilch of Your Voice
"XTOUR appearance is the first impression one gets in meeting you for
the 'first time, and you know many give great weight to "first
appearance.” So, with this thought in mind, it will be well for you to
give close consideration to this important subject. Character is expressed
to a very great degree in HOW WE DRESS. I don’t mean by this that
you should try to dress expensively, for many cannot afford to do so.
But you should give CARE to your outward appearance, and what you
do buy should fit in with your type.
I have in mind a friend who goes around the city without stockings,
and sandals on her feet. Yes, she has her toes manicured and tinted to
be sure. She wears usually an ill-fitting sport dress; has a heavy coat
of tan; uses no make-up; has what I presume she calls a "wind blown
bob,” but it looks more as though she had jumped out of bed and
forgot to comb her hair to me; and while with people she assumes
an indifferent, uninterested pose and is sometimes rather rude in her
remarks. This woman could dress and make up so that she would be
very attractive, but she believes in individualism to such an extent that
she just can’t be like other people. She probably meets very few people
who tell her the truth about herself; but if she knew what people were
saying behind her back, she might be shocked. Her attire would
be quite all right in the privacy of her own garden, but nowhere
else.
I have a gentleman friend whose shoes are never shined; whose tie
is always awry; and whose clothes never see the pressing iron. His hat
is soiled, and he gives the appearance of being careless. One can’t
help but wonder in studying him whether he ever takes a bath. This
man has a good mind and people overlook his appearance to a great
extent. But how much better impression would be made if he just gave
a little care to himself. The man or woman who say they haven’t time
to fix up are usually types who picture themselves as very busy, but who
never go very far in life.
I have another friend who was pretty hard up during the worst of our
recent depression, but every so often he would come out with a new
suit. One day I asked him, "Phil, how can you afford all these new
clothes you buy?” He replied, "I can’t afford them, but I would soon
68
be worse off financially than I am if I were not able to dress well,
for it would make me feel like a bum and take away from my morale.”
And in his case, I believe he was right, for he is a very neat, immaculate
person and he probably would be so conscious of his appearance in
calling on his trade that it would actually mean less money to him.
Study your appearance. Try to get the honest opinion of others
whom you trust and who display good taste; this can be the opinion of
close friends, or of salespeople whom you find show good taste. You
need not dress richly, for many times a little color here and there which
blends in with your complexion, a well-fitted, neat, but inexpensive
dress that flatters you; a hair dress that after study you find to be most
becoming to you; well-kept finger nails and the general appearance of
cleanliness; the right selection in shoes, which are kept looking neat;
and the general appearance of wholesomeness and a pleasing picture
to look at.
There are many who do not possess the talent of good taste. I know
of many who are in a position to buy the most expensive outfits, and
do pay large sums for their clothes, who do not look as well as some
other women who spend for dress perhaps only a fractional part of
what they do. Why not be real frank with yourself and admit, if it is
true, that you haven’t as good taste as some others? If this is true you
should try to find someone whom you KNOW to be a good friend
and who has your best interests at heart, who will advise you, and
perhaps go shopping with you when you make purchases. We are not
all artistic in nature, and therefore you should not feel ashamed to
admit it. On the other hand, YOU may possess some talent that this
friend you select to help you cannot express.
I recall on my first trip to Paris, when I was much younger than I
am now and perhaps noticed women more, that I was amazed to see
how lovely the ordinary shop girls of Paris appeared. You know these
people are noted for their good taste in dress. In analyzing these girls
I found that it wasn’t the richness of their clothing that caused me to
comment on their apperance, but rather the general appearance which
seemed to blend in perfectly with their individual types. A little
colored bow here; some plain ornament there; never overdone, but just
right.
If you are a typical brunette type, with certain features which give
you somewhat of an oriental appearance, you might be able to wear
your hair parted in the middle, and smoothly combed down toward the
back, with a certain type of earring to add to the oriental appearance;
69
hile another, of a different type, would look terrible in the same head
.ress. I see some with poor taste who get themselves up to look like
Christmas trees; and others who spend good money for clothes looking
carelessly and unbecomingly attired.
Give some real thought to this question of appearance, for as you
go out among people your first appearance may sell you to them, or may
relegate you to the background. Don’t let yourself become careless
even around your home. You can have on something neat and clean
and good to look at, even though the dress cost you but $1.49. People
will like you much better if you have clean habits and look nice when­
ever they meet you. By giving care and attention to yourself a friend
always feels quite all right in stopping with some friend of hers at
your home, for she knows you will be presentable and she will not be
embarrassed.
And it costs so little for a man to keep his shoes looking well, give
some attention to the appearance of his ties, and to be sure his clothes
are in press, even though old. He too should give some attention to
his hands as far as cleanliness is concerned. A nail file will work won­
ders if you use it regularly. You may be rather well dressed, but have
dirty finger nails, and your finger nails will be spotted by the one you
meet and you will be lowered in his eyes.
Many positions are given to men and women largely on the general
appearance they make. I wouldn’t hire a stenographer whose appear­
ance was slovenly, for I would expect her work to be of the same
character. If a man or woman is careless in their appearance, an
employer has a right to believe that they will also be careless in con­
nection with the work they do for him.
The personality you express to a stranger starts with your general
appearance.
HAVE YOU A PLEASANT SPEAKING VOICE?
The speaking voice tells a great deal about the character behind it.
A self conscious person will usually either speak so low it is hard to
distinguish what he or she says; or speak so loud, to appear important,
that it is harsh, nasal, coarse in sound. Study the pitch and quality of
your voice and also get the opinion of others, and if you find defects
there try to correct them.
If a woman, be soft spoken, but speak loudly enough for your words
to easily carry to the one you are conversing with. If a man, speak in
a calm, manly way and as convincingly as possible. It isn’t the man
who shouts who makes his point, but the man who calmly and appeal­
ingly and convincingly makes his remarks. Form the habit of speaking
clearly and give full value to each word. So many form the habit of
dropping the last syllable of many words, and with it speak so rapidly
that one must constantly have his wits sharp and his ears attuned to
quickly get the meaning. Always try to think of the one you are address­
ing and make it as easy for him to understand you as possible. I am
sure you have some friend whom you feel speaks unusually well. Study
his manner of delivery and with some thought and exercise and patience
you will be able to correct weaknesses which you may find in your
speaking voice.
Of course I expect you to fit your voice to the various circumstances
present. To speak softly and calmly out at some picnic where merri­
ment and shouting became a part of the occasion, would naturally be
wrong. Be flexible and learn to fit your mannerisms to circumstances.
THE POWER OF OBSERVATION
This is something which is neglected by many. To be observing
means that you are contstantly adding to your knowledge. There are
many who go through such a place as our Field Museum and are unable
to tell you very much about what they saw. They casually glance at
things, but only a few of the things they see make any deep impression.
You will add materially to your conversational powers and to your own
respect for self, by possessing as general a knowledge of things as pos­
sible. And all this will add to your power of memory as well.
So be observing. Don’t walk down the street with your eyes unseeing
and in a sort of trance; but be interested in everything about you and
you will be surprised how many things of real interest you will add
to your fund of knowledge. I find many who do not know certain
streets by name within a few blocks of their own home, where perhaps
they have lived for several years. I would think that such people would
feel embarrassed when asked where a certain street is and be unable to
tell, when that street is only a few blocks from their own home.
Develop added interest in LIFE and you will become more interested
in everything about you. Self centered people are usually unobserving.
People who have always been very observing are interesting people, for
it is hard to bring up a subject without their having some knowledge
to give.
71
THE LAW OF "GIVING AND RECEIVING”
We must GIVE in order to RECEIVE. This is a law that, with few
exceptions, works out well. To give not alone adds to your chances
for success, provided you do this wisely, but adds to your happiness as
well. I get very little enjoyment out of going to a movie alone. But
if I take someone with me, and the one I take seems to get a big "kick”
out of it, MY happiness is doubled. We enjoy giving enjoyment to
others, so the law of "giving” has immediately added to my well-being;
and I have also done a favor which may later be returned and I shall
then again receive my reward.
If you long for friendship, be friendly and give generously, and you
will add to your friends and have better friends as well. If you sit
down and wait for the other person to make the first move, you may
be disappointed, for all do not recognize this law, and many may be in
the same situation you are in, perhaps a little timid and self conscious.
When it comes to the giving of funds, I would suggest caution, for
unfortunately there are some dishonest, no-good people in this world.
Casting such "bread upon the waters” does not always work out through
its being returned to you manyfold. There are plenty of honest people
who will show real appreciation for favors you grant them, but you
must learn through experience when to trust and when not to.
The law of giving and receiving is really a law of developing through
use. You must expend effort in order to add to your powers. If you
faithfully give of your time, in taking mental or physical exercises; in
practicing on some instrument you are learning how to play, or in study­
ing some language you are trying to master; YOU WILL RECEIVE
AN HONEST AND FULL REWARD.
By thus adding strength and knowledge you are adding to your
personality for YOU are made bigger thereby.
CHARACTER
Character is something we acquire through a process of discipline,
training and development. Character is built through meeting hard
things and overcoming them. I don’t mean "character” simply in the
form of honesty and integrity; but more in the form of backbone and
personal strength. Character represents a combination of many things:
Honesty, reliability, faithfulness, morality, punctuality, STRENGTH.
Adding to your character means adding to the strength of these
things I have enumerated above, through discipline, exercise and USE
72
of the power you now can command. I believe if one were to prac­
tice the "golden rule” that he would possess a fine character. So you
see the rules for developing "character” are rather simple. The firsp
step is to discover your weaknesses, and then to add to their strength
through meeting hard things and winning, which will exercise these
powers you are determined to strengthen.
WHAT DO YOU SEE IN YOUR MIRROR?
Are you honestly proud of that reflection your mirror discloses? Is
your face a happy, animated, alive picture, or are there lines from
frowns, through over-seriousness and disappointment ? Are the corners
of your mouth up, or drooping because you are out of adjustment?
Does your hair look nice and your general appearance as you wish it?
Your mirror will answer all these questions if you read the reflection
without sparing yourself. I dislike to see one look into a mirror con­
stantly through a sense of vanity; but I would suggest that you look
into it frequently for the purpose of correcting imperfections you see.
Your mirror will never prove false to you, for it will give you JUST
what your outward personality represents. You will be able to improve
on the way you smile; the drooping ends of yonr mouth; your general
expression through practicing before your mirror. I don’t want you to
permit this to make you feel self conscious, for you are using it only
for the purpose of improvement. Don’t think how BAD YOU LOOK,
but rather, how GOOD YOU CAN LOOK with a few changes you
are in the process of making.
TOLERANCE
You as a personality will be far better thought of if you will try
to always be tolerant. Remember that each individual has a right to
his opinion. It may not agree with yours, but that is no proof that
either of you are right. You are perhaps both right, but viewing things
from two different angles. You may be a Protestant and your friend a
Catholic, that doesn’t make your friend’s views all wrong. No religion
has a copyright on TRUTH, so try to be tolerant. All things which
furnish no definite proof as to their authenticity, there can be many
views and interpretations of. You have YOURS, and you have a
right to that view; but to be fair-minded you must permit the other
person the same privilege.
Don’t get into heated arguments over the various unprovable things
of life, but just say, "It appears like this to me, but of course I have
73
no way of proving I am right.” It will be a good plan not to have too
definite ideas, as far as expressing them goes, in connection with
religion or politics.
I have a friend who always turns an argument to his advantage, and
later makes you feel rather ashamed of yourself. He will discuss a
subject with a friend up to a certain point, and when he sees you are
stubborn and determined to have your way, though he KNOWS you
are wrong, he will say, "Perhaps you are right, I did not know it was
that way.” And then later you go home, look the matter up and find
he was right and that you have made a fool out of yourself.
Again I say, TOLERANCE will add materially to your personality
and will save you many unpleasant moments if you will adhere to
my advice.
74
4
f i
' ‘i '
I
CHAPTER 10
How to Become A More Interesting Conversationalist • How
to Develop W ill Power
HOW TO BECOME A MORE INTERESTING
CONVERSATIONALIST
T O have one’s mind filled with thoughts and ideas and not be able
■
*" to express them, is most disconcerting and fails to give those you
contact a right impression of the REAL YOU. And for one to sense
this limitation makes him avoid the very things which would help to
develop added power. Conversational ability is one of the keys to the
expression of PERSONALITY.
This limitation is ruled by FEAR.
When with a group, thoughts you would like to express come to
your mind, and you ask yourself, “Shall I or shall I not express my
views?” Fear tells you that what you say may not be well received;
that you may show signs of emotion and nervousness which may be
noticed; that, if not well received, they will leave with a poor opinion
of you. You arebetween the devil and the deep blue sea; and the
devil usually wins in such arguments, for, with self centered people,
fear is stronger tha_n courage. And after such an experience how you
condemn yourself when you return home! With calmness restored to
your mind you plainly see how very foolish your fears have been.
Little by little people limit their social lives through the following
analysis. To go out and be "mum,” or a wall flower, makes them feel
conspicuous; and on the other hand they feel, through viewing the
situation in the light of fear, if they do say anything their confusion
will trap them and again they will appear conspicuously weak. These
people can only think about the opinion others may have of them, and
this thought becomes an obsession.
All this is a form of "stage fright.” But your situation is quite differ­
ent from one who appears on a public platform, as an actor or speaker,
for the first time. But like the actor who is beginning his career, you
feel that every eye is turned toward you and you wilt under the thought
of "being the center of attention.” Yet you would like to be that very
thing, wouldn’t you? But you fear to take the first steps toward its
realization. So you really are between the "devil and the deep blue sea.”
You wish to be a good conversationalist and have people respect you
for your reasoning ability and power of thought, but the "devil” creeps
in and makes you feel weak and helpless.
75
k
4
l
t
) \
\ . 7
.
(
'- -Again, this trying situation represents an improper picture of your­
self. YOU don’t believe in yourself and your powers; you feel that
just to hear your own voice would frighten you under such circum­
stances. The confusion, weakness, blushing and perspiring you may
experience, are all due to FEAR PLAYING ON YOUR EMOTIONS.
You will never actually collapse, and you MUST awaken sufficient
courage to ride right over your fears, if you are to ever feel at ease
with people and converse in a normal manner.
Suppose the actor or actress as he or she appeared before the public
were to assume the attitude you have. The result would be that we
would have no actors or actresses. ALL of them have a certain degree
of fear; and many of them have told me that when realizing they were
out there for the first time with an audience gazing at them, that they
wondered if their legs would hold them up, and their tongues seemed
glued to the roofs of their mouths. But others in such companies have
passed through similar experiences and some one usually feels sorry
for them and urges them on, relating their experiences and encourag­
ing them all they can. Thus, little by little, their fears melt away and
later they are able to face that same type of audience and be perfectly
at home. The very "hardest” chorus type, in the beginning had at least
the fear which misgiving brings and had some kind of a battle to fight.
Now if these people can face an audience and fight it out with their
fears, can’t you face a group of friends, or of strangers, at some little
party affair, or club, and fight YOUR FEARS? Call to your mind that
your fears are all imaginary, that you have JUST AS MUCH RIGHT
to say something as anyone who is there, and that you REFUSE to let
fear dominate you in the way it has in the past. A little courage will
weaken your fears materially; and a little practice will turn a seemingly
difficult task into a real pleasure.
People should prepare themselves for becoming good conversational­
ists by having a smattering knowledge regarding current events, etc.,
and a GOOD KNOWLEDGE of some one subject. Try to be well
informed and have something as a hobby that you become an expert in.
We can’t very well converse intelligently on a subject that we have no
konwledge of, of course. But just good common sense enters into many
forms of discussion, and I want you to give yourself credit for having
this. Your newspapers will furnish you with topics of the day, and
the reading of good books and magazines will give you added topics of
conversation. AND DON’T EVER BE AFRAID TO TELL WHAT
YOU KNOW. YOUR opinion in connection with something being
discussed might be very valuable. Haven’t you more than once sat in
76
A
with a group who were discussing some certain thing and have so ne
get up and make some point which went over big, that you had thought
of some time before? And he received the glory for making the sug­
gestion instead of you, just because YOU were too timid. Suppose
you do make some suggestion which is not very well received, you
have at least shown to the group that you have an opinion, and they
will think far more of you than for you to sit there all evening without
saying anything. Have an opinion, and DON’T be afraid to express it,
whether they like it or not.
Remember "personality” is founded upon INDEPENDENCE. You
show individuality, personality and independence by stating YOUR
personal views.
So try to first equip yourself with a fair degree of knowledge, and
then when fears try to keep you from expressing that knowledge or
your views, trample the fears under foot and SPEAK YOUR MIND.
Practice is SURE to overcome your fears and in time make you a good
conversationalist. We learn the various sideplays and secrets of being
a good conversationalist ONLY THROUGH PRACTICE. This is
again an instance of DEVELOPING THROUGH USE.
HOW TO EXPRESS PERSONALITY
IN A HAND SHAKE
Don't give one a hand which is lifeless and feels like a dead fish
if you wish him to form a good opinion of you. It is an insult to him,
and through it you have expressed a negative personality. Grasp him
by the hand as though you WERE glad to meet him, as though you
DID like him. And in shaking hands with him look him right in the
eye without fear and with the feeling that you are as good as the best.
You have feared that people may form a wrong opinion of you, yet
how frequently you give yourself away and cause one TO have a bad
opinion of you through some foolish little mannerism you have formed
through the dictation of fear.
And on being introduced and shaking hands with another, DON’T
say, "I’m pleased to meet you,” but HOW DO YOU DO? On leaving,
if you wish to you can say, "It has been a pleasure to meet you.”
Don’t try to put on any agony, or extreme social grace in meeting one,
but just BE YOURSELF AND SHOW IT IN YOUR HAND SHAKE
AND THE WORDS YOU UTTER. No matter who the person may
be whom you meet, feel that YOU have as much to give as he has
in the meeting.
7 7
\
\ (h
\
J>ME OF THE COMMON ELEMENTS EXPRESSING
) PERSONALITY
"Worth makes the man, and want of it the fellow.”
Personality is a presence, bearing, or atmosphere which normally
belongs to YOU, which gives others their impression of you. It is a
subtle something which radiates from YOU, indicating the faculties
and qualities which exist in you.
Every object radiates as it exists; a hot stove radiates heat, and a cold
stove radiates cold. But many are like what is termed "hot ice,” which
if touched appears to be hot, but in reality is cold. You therefore
express the REAL RADIATION of that personality YOU, when you
are freely expressing the REAL you. But when you are expressing a
false self, which fear and habit has created, you fail to give out a
radiation which represents YOU, and, like "hot ice,” you are misjudged.
When you fail to express that real self, you are like a person wearing a
mask. We may say that PERSONALITY is the REAL YOU, the sum
and result of all your faculties and qualities. Don’t try to FORCE
personality, for it will be expressed at its best when you are perfectly
natural and not trying. To try TOO HARD means that you are con­
scious of yourself and how you are acting, and that usually spoils
everything.
WILL, which I shall have more to say about a little further on,
plays an important part in personality.
"Our character,” said Archbishop Manning, "is our WILL, for what
we will, we are.”
;V' EMOTION, which I have already written on, is another link in this
chain of personality. We form emotional traits which may be bad or
good, and are judged accordingly. Some of these traits have to do with
our inner life and our work; and others have to do with our relation
to others.
Let me classify some of these forces so that you can draw a better
comparison and realize better what I mean:—
Confidence . . . . opposed to . . . Fear
Prudence .............
tt <
t
Recklessness
Purity................... Immortality
Optimism . . . . Pessimism
Am bition............. Self-Satisfaction
Initiative............. Inaction
Perseverance . . . Fickleness
K indness............. Harshness
78
/
Helpfulness . . . opposed to . . . Selfishness
T act...................... " " . . . Incivility
Sympathy............. “ " . . . Indifference
Truthfulness . . . " " . . . Dishonesty
L o v e ........................ " " . . . Hatred
Justice ..................... " " . . . Injustice
F o rce........................ " " . . . Timidity
Many more might be added to this group of comparisons, but it will
give you something to help you tabulate just what your good points and
flaws consist of. And ALL OF THESE represent HABITS you have
formed, remember that. To overcome your weaknesses you must bring
to bear the POWER OF HABIT. You CAN destroy one habit and
form a different one.
Do not undertake to establish habit by one grand, supremely difficult
act, but by a great number of small acts which are frequently repeated,
all of which will be comparatively easy. Habits are formed through
repetition you know.
^ 7 THE MIND is the third element of PERSONALITY. The mind is
the EYE OF PERSONALITY. What your mind sees you can grasp.
What it does not see, and what it does not keep looking at—all the
time—you cannot possibly grasp. You may have thought that I have
repeated myself to a certain extent in writing these lessons, but that
has been purposely done, for I have tried to show you the same thing
from different angles, so that if your mind and eye failed to grasp the
fact from one angle, it might from another.
"The man or woman who works with his feet,” The National Cash
Register Co. used to tell their employees, "never won against the man
who thinks with his brain. Walking is a healthful exercise, but its
main use is to carry to completion the plans your brain thinks out.”
So you see PERSONALITY is composed of four different elements,
each having positive and negative—constructive and destructive—
expressions. They are:—WILL, EMOTIONAL TRAITS, HABITS
and GENERAL MENTAL STRENGTH. THINK the things you
WISH to create in your life and act it out to the best of your ability.
Exercise control and direction over your emotions, so that they will
serve you. Use your Will-Power to hold yourself steadfastly on a given
course~you~have chosen. And do these things REGULARLY so that
exercise will develop them, and constant USE form them into HABITS.
HOW TO DEVELOP WILL POWER
One well-known psychologist does not believe there is such a thing
79
as WILL, but most psychologists disagree with him. His view is that
we do the thing we MOST DESIRE TO DO, and that Will does not
enter into it. But I have found in my own life that I have done things
through the force of Will, which I really have not DESIRED to do.
I did it because I believed it was the proper thing to do and in some
instances it went directly against my desires in the matter. But possibly
he would say that in such instances it was the DESIRE TO DO RIGHT,
the desire to do that which would minister to my future welfare that
caused me to do them. But I prefer to remain a disciple of those who
believe in WILL.
To develop Will you will again bring into play the law of DEVEL­
OPMENT THROUGH USE. You may have very little Will to start
with, but if you will USE WHAT YOU HAVE, and do so regularly
and faithfully, you will find as you go along you will have more and
more power of Will to use. Exercise gradually accumulates strength
like a savings account accumulates through the interest being com­
pounded. In a certain time you have doubled your money in this way,
and your strength will be added to through well-thought-out forms of
exercise. NO ONE was born with a strong Will, but rather the ele­
ments which made it possible for him to express strong Will at an early
age. Please remember that stubbornness is not a true expression of
Will, but a misdirected form which lack of intelligence is back of.
YOU CAN IMPROVE YOUR WILL MATERIALLY I ASSURE
YOU.
HOW TO EXPRESS SYMPATHY WITHOUT ITS
HARMING YOU
We cannot call a cold-blooded, unsympathetic person one who
possesses a pleasing personality. They are usually a selfish type. They
think only of themselves. This may be necessary to a degree in busi­
ness life, but when it comes to his social life he should be quite
different.
Of course sympathy can easily be overdone. It would not be wise
to extend a great deal of sympathy toward one who has brought
troubles upon himself and refuses to see that he is in the wrong. He
requires direction, some strong, definite advice, rather than sympathy.
Express your sympathy more through your extending your hand to one
in trouble and trying to help him work out of his condition, in place
of doing things which will develop self-pity and be harmful. For
example, we find a man out of work who has earnestly tried to secure
employment, and we find his family suffering in consequence. It would
80
be far better to encourage that man, help him find something to do,
than for you to give him money and thus help pauperize him.
So DON’T let your sympathy run away with you. THINK. Reason
out the BEST way to be of service to one you contact in trouble. Don’t
go home and WORRY over the condition you have found, for that
will prove very harmful to you. DO WHAT YOU CAN, but refuse
to worry. For instance, a man came to me recently who has a brother,
a confirmed drunkard. He has embarrassed this man’s family repeat­
edly; he has been helped times without number without its making
any good impression on him. This drunkard’s mother carried along and
tried in every possible way to help him, until she became completely
discouraged and committed suicide. Since this sad incident his brother
has shouldered the responsibility. My first advise was to try to get him
in some institution that cares for such cases and see if that would
straighten him out. And the brother replied that he would not consent
to go to such a place, as they had suggested it and he had refused.
I then suggested "kicking him out” and see if hunger would perhaps
bring him to his senses. But this was met by the statement that he
would hang around their doorstep and holler and shout at the top of
his voice when he was drunk. I said, in such a case have him arrested.
But the man replied, "I cannot bring myself to do that with my own
brother.” I then suggested that he offer him, when in a sober state,
the choice between going somewhere and being helped, or leaving his
home without ever returning. He did this and the brother chose the
former and has been at an institution for some time, with a fair chance
of his being cured.
You see this drunkard’s brother was thinking too much about how
things would affect him and his household, to use any drastic measures
in trying to save the brother. He had developed a certain amount of
self-pity, which was influencing his better judgment. He DID have
sympathy for this brother, but he was letting this sympathy and sym­
pathy for himself, tear him to pieces and he was almost a wreck when
he came to interview me. His was a hard problem to solve, I will
admit, but that drunken brother has found he could get away with most
anything, and therefore he continued to do just as he pleased. Do you
know even a two or three day old baby can be spoiled by too sym­
pathetic a mother? Habits are formed at an early age which are most
detrimental to the child and a great trial to those who live with him.
So express sympathy with discretion and wisely, for to fail to do so
can actually injure the one you are trying to help, and make you very
miserable as well.
81
CHAPTER 11
How to Become A Convincing Speaker • How to Im prove
Your Vocabulary and Power of Speech
HUMOR AND ITS USE IN PUBLIC SPEAKING
A CERTAIN degree of humor can be cultivated. Of course a natural
sense of humor, such as many of the Irish possess means a certain
type of mind that all do not inherit. You may not reach a point where
you find it possible to cope with others who have this sense developed
to a high degree, but you can through practice become a good story
teller. Just remember in telling a story that it is not just a question
of telling FACTS, but it is the WAY you tell that story which makes
either an appeal toward the humorous, or makes it deeply interesting.
Some emotion must be put into relating a story; you must FEEL the
incident you are describing; or the story may fall rather flat. One must
LIVE a story, and not have it merely a collection of words. Even the
tone of your voice should be changed at points in your story to fit into
the particular word picture you are painting.
A certain dramatic ability must be cultivated in story telling. Listen
to the way monologists tell things. The radio can furnish you plenty of
material for studying the art of story telling. If you are deeply inter­
ested in this particular phase of Personality Improvement you could
even take a course in speaking and dramatic art from some good
teacher. For one to be able to tell a story, which is humorous, in a
humorous way, is a very big asset.
But here is something for you to bear in mind. No one person can
possess ALL the virtues and talents connected with life’s expressions.
There is certainly SOME ONE THING that you will be able to do
WELL. Search for that talent you have and develop IT to the fullest,
and then add these other things and do them as well as your nature
will permit of.
I have read that Woolworth, the five and ten cent magnate, failed in
his undertaking until he learned that he was not an executive, but a
buyer. When he placed a good executive in charge of things, and made
it is business to do the buying, he began to forge ahead.
In connection with Humor and Story Telling I suggest that you do
considerable reading aloud, that you try harder and harder to use your
voice as indicated by the particular thing your reading represents, and
82
that, in reading you try to LIVE THAT WHICH YOU ARE READ­
ING, and actually FEEL IT. And again I repeat, listen to the way
others, whom you enjoy listening to, relate a story or read. With some
good examples before you I am sure that you will be able to materially
improve yourself in this particular.
ACQUIRE THE HABIT OF READING GOOD BOOKS
I don’t mean by good books, just scientific works, for I would not
have you confine your reading to just things of a serious character.
I mean by good books, well written, worth while books, no matter
what the subjects may be. If you find yourself deeply interested in this
matter of self-improvement, we shall be very glad to furnish you a list
of good books if you will write to us.
Let your reading cover a variety of subjects so you may be as well
informed as possible. Fiction of the day can usually be procured from
your Library, if you live in a city. To be well informed means that you
have topics of conversation which will not only make social contact far
easier for you, but will add to your fund of knowledge as well, which
will be a very great personal satisfaction. I believe for inspirational
purposes, if you feel the need of such help, that good biographies will
help to furnish this inspiration. It adds materially to our faith if we
read of the struggles others have had before they eventually won.
Book by book acquire a library of GOOD BOOKS, for you will find
they will prove to be the very best friends you can have. When you
find yourself in a certain mood and need something to brace you up,
you can go to those shelves of "good friends” and find comfort or
stimulation.
Form the HABIT of reading, if you have not already done so, for it
is refreshing, will always fill in time you have on your hands in an
enjoyable manner, and will constantly add to your fund of knowledge.
Whether you are or are not a reader, it is a matter of HABIT. If you
are not you can acquire this good habit by forcing yourself to do more
and more reading, and holding yourself to it. By doing this you will
find later on, you will enjoy yourself thorougly in this most stimulating
and helpful practice. Thousands of people sit around for several hours
each day, wondering what they can do to amuse themselves. If these
people had the habit of READING, their troubles would be solved.
Become a READER and you will find your personality added to
materially.
HOW TO IMPROVE YOUR VOCABULARY
Here again the reading of good books can serve you. In reading
don’t skip words which you are not quite sure you understand the
meaning of, but make that reading serve a double purpose; that of
enjoyment, and of adding to your vocabulaary. If you will look up
these words you do not quite understand, and repeat them to yourself
a number of times, so as to get them well fixed in your mind, and per­
haps attach these words to something you find the word associates itself
with, you will be inclined to remember them. Another plan which
will prove a good practice is for you to write down let us say FIVE
such words each day, and give considerable thought to them. Thus,
by adding five words a day, and learning their meaning as you might
study something in school, you will have added 150 words a month.
Thus it would not be long before you will have an unusually large
vocabulary. And each day try to USE these five new words in your
conversation, for that will help to fix them in your mind so that you
will retain them.
A good book was always found in the hands of President James A.
Garfield, when he as a young man on the back of a mule used to
pull the canal boats up and down the Erie Canal. Thus he added con­
stantly to his vocabulary, as well as his knowledge, and may have been
the means of later raising him to the exalted position he held. You see
he made every minute count for something.
Develop a VERY REAL AMBITION to possess PERSONALITY
and to get ahead.
HOW TO BECOME A CONVINCING SPEAKER
To be able to speak convincingly is an art, and an art that YOU
can acquire through understanding and practice. Here again, YOU
may not have a talent for public speaking which will make you an
outstanding orator, but you can learn to speak convincingly.
I recall the first time I heard Clarence Darrow speak. He was never
a flowery orator, but had the habit of appearing at perfect ease on a
platform or in a court room, and he spoke to an audience, just as
though he were speaking JUST TO YOU. He would walk up and
down, sometimes with his hands in his pockets, and in simple, convinc­
ing language make his points. You had the feeling that he was speaking
to YOU, and this caused you to listen attentively. He would frequently
use some illustration to help put his thought over more convincingly,
84
and you usually left feeling that he was right, though you may have
had rather a different idea regarding the particular subject when you
went there. He was not an eloquent orator, but a most convincing one,
which is surely far better.
So, in speaking, try to be in earnest, give people the feeling that
YOU KNOW WHAT YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT, and speak to
them just as you would to some friend whom you were having a quiet
little chat with. The man who stands up and rants and raves, is not
usually convincing, for this type of delivery may arouse antagonism and
we ask ourselves "Who he thinks he is?’’ Quietness with an occasional
burst of real enthusiasm, proves the most impressive. Remember when
you are speaking to a group you feel that you have something to give
to them, and naturally you wish them to believe you. Always speak
as though you were talking to a single friend whom you were discuss­
ing something with. I have had some orators tell me that they fre­
quently select some one person in the audience and feel that they are
speaking ONLY TO HIM. Of course they do not fix their eyes on a
single individual, for that would leave the balance of the audience
feeling rather cold toward them, but in their minds, they retain the
picture of that one person. Such an attitude also makes one feel less
self conscious, for they forget the audience as a whole and picture the
one person whom they have selected as a sort of "friend” to tell their
stories to.
Your mannerisms count a lot too. Feel at perfect ease, and you will
cause those you are addressing to feel more at ease and they will thus
have a different feeling toward you and be more attentive. Don’t rattle
things off as though you had committed your speech to memory, even
though you may have, but weigh your words carefully, feel those
words you utter, and slowly and calmly convey to your audience what
you have to say. Remember your words act as suggestions to the minds
of the people you are talking to, and for suggestions to sink deeply
there must be fire and feelings back of the suggestions. You should
BELIEVE what you are saying, or you are not likely to be convincing.
You must show enthusiasm, interest in the people you are addressing,
and make them feel that they of course know what you are saying is
true, for you and they are on "the same wire.” Take them into your
confidence and let the feeling be that you are all equals. To make an
audience feel that you have an idea that YOU are important, a sort of
"know it all,” and that they probably don’t know as much as you, will
cause your talk to fall flat. People don’t like egotism. Here too,
dramatics can be used most successfully, and a good speaker will almost
85
whisper at one time, as though he were letting you in on a secret, and
at another time raise his voice and pitch it higher in order to emphasize
some point.
TACT AND DIPLOMACY
A whole book could be written on this subject for I believe it repre­
sents THE cardinal principle of PERSONALITY. I shall try only to
give you some of the "high lights,” and some helpful hints in a con­
densed form.
TACT means saying or doing the right thing at the right time, in
the right way, and in the right place. A tactful person is ever alert to
ward off all that may hurt or offend; to do and say the thing which
induces in others a feeling of self approval, thus placing them at their
ease. The tactful man is EASY TO GET ALONG WITH, and people
like to be in his company and do business with him.
Tact is always absent in the unpopular man or woman, for these
people are forever saying or doing the wrong thing. We dare not tell
them a secret, for at some unexpected moment they may blurt it out.
Truth, in itself, is a jewel, but there are times when silence is far
better than telling the truth if it is going to injure someone whom we
call a friend. It is a good practice to train yourself to not say ANY­
THING disparaging about another, even though that individual may
not be on your list of friends. A gossip-monger is always to be feared.
Thus, even truth, can be as a poisoned arrow in the hands of a tactless
and thoughtless person.
No matter how brilliant or versatile a person may be, if he or she
lacks TACT, that person will be a bungler all his or her life. Such
people are constantly getting into "hot water” with the people with
whom they associate, whether these people be clients, patients, cus­
tomers, social acquaintances or close friends.
In your various contacts ALWAYS strive to make a meeting an
agreeable, pleasant, happy affair. Do you know one of the biggest
secrets in connection with having people like you? It is to always try
to make the OTHER PERSON APPEAR BIG, and to compliment and
praise him. In other words, always give "THE OTHER FELLOW a
break.” Never be selfish to the point of trying to absorb the conver­
sation or work it around so that YOU are the big person of the gather­
ing. One who thinks he is big, is usually little in the eyes of his
friends. I don’t mean that you are to assume a negative, "under-dog”
86
attitude toward yourself, far from it. I want YOU TO BELIEVE
THAT YOU ARE ALL RIGHT, but don’t express this freely, and
don’t try to work things about so that you will sort of force praise
out of another.
Only the man or woman who has neglected entirely the attribute
of TACT, will ever pointedly disagree, dispute, contradict, or in any
way irritate his acquaintances, business associates or friends. You can
TACTFULLY meet such situations. Don’t you agree that it is far
better to say in reply to some statement you cannot agree with, "Don’t
you think it is so and so, that is the way I have it in mind, or that it
appears to me,” than to bluntly tell one before others that he is wrong,
and thus embarrass him ? Have in mind the fact that you can be agree­
able or disagreeable, and if you desire to retain friendships and be
liked, you will choose the former. Would YOU like to be embarrassed
by another? Of course you would not. Therefore, use tact and
diplomacy so that you will place the other fellow in the position YOU
would like to be placed in under similar circumstances. Wouldn’t you
like to have the feeling that when you told a friend something in con­
fidence, that he would respect that confidence? But do YOU always
apply this same principle in connection with confidences that are given
to YOU?
In my forty-one years of dealing with the human elements in people,
I have found that men prove better friends than women. This is un­
doubtedly due to their business training and lack of jealousy and envy.
Perhaps some of you women will say that I am not very tactful in
making such a statement, but I am now in the position of striving to
help you, and I can’t very well do this without telling you the truth.
Women have less to occupy their minds and through it develop the
practice of gossip. They like to startle some friend by telling her of
the scandal they heard about so and so. Women are inclined to show
little tact in dealing with their own sex. It just hurts some women to
tell others what nice dresses they have on and how nice they look. This
is all due to a sense of jealousy, envy and selfishness. I recall a remark
that was made by a woman about the dress another had on, she said,
"What a nice new dress you have on, my dear,” calling attention to the
dress, when I found out afterward that she knew this dress was a very
old one and merely wished to call attention to THAT fact so that she
might take this woman "down a peg.” I have had hundreds of women
tell me that they preferred men friends to women, for men proved
better friends and could be trusted more.
Now that is a pretty bad reputation for you women to have. Are any
87
of these true of YOU ? If so, try harder to practice the golden rule and
try to be a REAL friend to the women you associate with. Give your
women friends a break, be nice and kind and complimentary, and you
will stand out among them as a leader and will be sought after I
assure you.
Tact has several elements, the chief ones being sympathy and kind­
ness. Think the best of the other person; believe in his or her virtues; «
be tolerant of their obvious faults; make allowance for human nature;
don’t be quick to condemn, for YOU MIGHT be placed in a similar
position yourself some day; and bear constantly in mind that a wound
is as painful to others as it is to YOU, and that everyone likes to be
pleased with himself or herself.
So, on all occasions strive to "Do unto others as if you were the
other.”
*
88
CHAPTER 12
How to Develop Individuality, Poise and Calmness • How
to Find and How to Cultivate New Friends
T'F you will earnestly and honestly strive to cooperate with me and
follow my suggestions closely, I AM SURE you will soon have just
lots of friends who will keep your spare time busily engaged in keeping
appointments..
I know that many have limited means and such people should figure
out ways and means to do pleasant things which are inexpensive as
far as outlay of money is concerned. Don’t feel you are obliged to
entertain lavishly, for very simple lunches, along with a GOOD TIME,
will be appreciated. One of the troubles with house parties is that
each one tries to outdo the other, until it becomes a problem, and half
the fun is taken out of it. Have gatherings of people who are more
interested in social and perhaps educational subjects of discussion, than
those who come JUST to be amused and fed. Or, if those you contact
are more the fun-loving type, arrange some games which will assist
in making the afternoon or evening enjoyable. There are many inter­
esting games that can be purchased for little, and after you have once
purchased these you will always have something to entertain your
friends with.
If you have a group of friends who are interested in things of an
educational character, plan the discussion of some certain book; or have
some study course that you are all interested in, and that you meet at
each others houses to talk over. This Course of mine that YOU are
interested in would be of interest to many. Why not form a little
PERSONALITY IMPROVEMENT CLUB, and study and discuss
these various subjects I am writing on, Lesson by Lesson. Each one
could bring to the meeting many things that they had read on the
different subjects, and thus add to the understanding and knowledge
which would be helpful to all.
A great many lonely souls, people who through self consciousness
have never mixed with many; or people who have moved into some
new city or neighborhood, state that they know of no way to become
acquainted with others and that their lives are most unhappy in
consequence.
Those who work usually have some business associates that could be
used as a beginning. If you will just show a friendly spirit toward
89
these, one or two will someday invite you some place where you will
meet a few more people. Thus by catering to their friendships you will
gradually add to your circle of friends. Some will find small clubs
which they can join; while others will find a contact for friendships in
becoming active in church work. Don’t be afraid to be friendly with
even strangers; people you meet in the various stores you may visit,
etc., etc.
One trouble is that these lonely people are often too particular as
to those they wish to associate with. I will make some suggestions to
people of this class who write me, and so often they will reply that
there are so few whom they have anything in common with. You never
know what a contact, which you follow up, may lead to. The first
individual may not be just to your liking, and you may not have a great
deal in common with that person, but he or she may introduce you to
someone who is very much to your liking if you will but give that
person a chance. You will find SOMETHING GOOD, something in
common, in most everyone. Try to draw that person out along the lines
of thought and expression which you have in common.
It is YOUR FAULT if you are lonely or a "wall-flower.” YOU
havn’t done YOUR part in making contacts and in trying to show
friendship. You have lived too much within yourself and have thought
inwardly instead of outwardly. Why there are any number of people
you could pass the day with, by starting your friendship off with a
cheery "good morning,” but your own wrong thoughts, or limitations,
have kept you from doing so. Now isn’t that honestly a fact? You
haven’t shown the friendly spirit you might, now have you? People
who have many dates are people who "give out something.” Just
how much have YOU given out? Isn’t it a fact that YOU have been
waiting for the others to give, rather than find ways in which YOU
could give? There is no GOOD occasion for loneliness. "Give and
ye shall receive.”
Be pleasant, show kindness, be thoughtful, put yourself out to do
little things, and you will soon have a host of friends.
HOW TO BECOME POPULAR
First, think of the other person rather than yourself. ^As I have
previously stated, compliment, praise the other fellow and make him
feel big. Look for the good points in others and ignore thtTflawsTTf
you are quite a talker, give the other fellow a break and be sure to be
a. good listener. Don't be all absorbed in YOUR business affairs,
90
problems, your surroundings; but show interest, REAL INTEREST
in the other fellow’s children, home, business life, and problems.
Always be courteous, ask about other members of his family, thank him
profusely for favors he may grant you, show REAL appreciation for
anything that is done for you. After being at a friends to dinner, or
after accepting some invitation; always phone or write that person
soon afterward and tell him what a good time you had. When some­
one invites you to do something, don’t accept it in a negative way, as
though you were doing HIM a favor through accepting, but make him
feel that he has done YOU a great favor and make quite a fuss over
it. That will make HIM feel good and he will invite you again.
Think over what pleases in contacting others, and reverse the pro­
cedure. Good-fellowship will surely make you popular, but "good
fellowship” means the art of "giving” rather than receiving. You may
ask, "Well, where will I come in if I do all the giving.” On occasions
you will get the worst of it, but don’t care. Feel that you have done
your part, and if that other person fails to do his, it is just his mis­
fortune. You will find a large percentage of those you contact who
will give in return, and that will be your reward. And in seeking
popularity, keep the principle in mind and don’t do things from hidden
selfish motives, for if you do, in time it will be discovered and the
popularity you have built up will tumble. FEEL the kindness you
show; FEEL truly friendly; WISH to make that friend happy; and
your success is assured.
ALL LEADERS MUST POSSESS PERSONALITY
There is a type of leader who has a certain forcefulness which makes
it possible for him to "steam roll” his ideas through for a time. This
we sometimes find in the politician. But if you will study the lives of
people who have been TRUE LEADERS, you will find that they are
people who played fair with their friends and who possessed a lovable
personality. I have personally known politicians who were actually
crooked, but if they succeeded in a big way they never went back on,
or double-crossed a REAL FRIEND. Such politicians when they get
into trouble, usually have friends who will swear to lies and do most
anything to help them out of their troubles. "There is honor, even
among thieves.”
In being a leader unusual Tact and Diplomacy must be possessed.
One must know just how to meet trying situations and to work it about
so that momentary enemies become your boosters. I am well acquainted
91
with a man of affairs who never has an enemy for long. Do you know
why ? Because he puts himself out to do some kindness for that enemy;
because he never permits himself to get angry and say things he is
later sorry for. And he continues to do kindnesses as the opportunities
present, until at last that enemy becomes a staunch friend. This same
man I am told is mighty powerful in a directors meeting and can sway
sentiment his way in most every instance. But those directors have
learned to trust him; to love him; to just KNOW that what he says
is his honest conviction and is not swayed by thoughts of personal gain.
In telling this to some I have had them say, "Well that man must be
a 'sap',” but I assure you he is far from it. He is just a well-controlled,
diplomatic, tactful man who puts his whole self in an unselfish way,
into whatever he undertakes. HE is a BIG MAN.
HOW TO DEVELOP INDIVIDUALITY
It is not well to be too individualistic in dress and general appear­
ance unless you are doing so for a definite purpose. To dress so that
you are conspicuous, may, in a way be a good advertisement, provided
it will in some way fit in with your business or profession, for they say,
the more you are talked about the better you are known. People will
ask, "Who is that person who dresses so and so that I frequently see
in such and such a locality?” If the person knows he will state your
name, your business, and facts which make you better known. But
from a social standpoint you will probably be too "queer” to be included
when invitations are mailed out.
A lawyer once told me that when he was called to some rural locality
where his contact was largely with farmers, as far as jury was con­
cerned, that he put on an old, unpressed suit of clothes, wore an old
hat, and tried to be dressed quite like the jury. And he would even
change his English in addressing the jury, avoiding technical terms,
big words, etc., as much as possible. And I presume such tactics would
be of service. They might resent or feel antagonistic to a man who in
appearance and words rather assumed the position that he was better
than they were.
If one has unusual brains, has gained world-wide recognition for
his accomplishments, he can afford to indulge his peculiarities without
harm to himself. In fact, such a man just doesn’t care. He is to be
accepted as he is and if people don’t like it, well, they know what they
can do. Some years ago the electrical wizard, Steinmetz, was invited
to speak at a very distinguished gathering at one of our large clubs in
92
Chicago. The club member who had personally invited him tried to
be real thoughtful and told Steinmetz that instead of returning home
from his office to dress, he would arrange a room for him at the club
where he could change his clothes for the evening. Steinmetz came,
with a little grip in his hand, and his friend showed him to a room
which had been reserved for him and told him that he would have
e plenty of time to rest for a period before he dressed and that he would
call for him at a certain hour. When the hour arrived he went to
Steinmetz’s room, knocked, and upon being invited in, saw Steinmetz
sitting in a chair, wearing the same unpressed clothes he had worn
when last seen, and this bag, which the friend had thought to contain
a change of clothes, opened. But the bag instead of containing clothes,
contained books, and Steinmetz had had no intention of making any
special preparations as to dress, for the party. And STEINMETZ could
'get away’ with such a thing. But had you or I done a similar thing,
we probably would have been plainly told that this was a dress affair
and that our costume was not appropriate, and we probably would have
been discussed and laughed about, for not understanding social etiquette.
The safest plan to follow is to not try to be too individualistic. Try
to dress and assume the mannerisms which are the common practice in
the social and business life you are attached to.
It really does not pay to entirely ignore conventionality and be so
very individualistic that we cause comment. How much better it is to
dress and act like other people, and be individualistic in having a
charming, pleasing personality that people discuss favorably, and to be
known as being a well-balanced, well-educated, outstanding individual.
Geniuses are given considerable latitude, but unless you ARE a
genius, just follow the usual customs and do this well.
HOW TO EXPRESS MORE LOVE
I believe that LOVE and GREAT FAITH are the two outstanding
elements of life, as far as personality^ is concerned.
You are attracted to those who have deep love, not always by what
» they do, but there is something you feel when you contact such a
person. Kindness, thoughtfulness, sincerity are felt in all they say or
do. Such people are usually protected from the harsher things of life,
« for no one wishes to injure a person with such a nature. And when in
their presence YOU actually find yourself giving out more love. Such
people are magnetic and draw others toward them. At times they are
93
imposed on, but the imposition is not felt deeply by them, for their
love excuses the person who has been so crude. LOVE does much
toward making the world go round and in also making it a far better
place to live in.
To LOVE people brings friends to your door. To LOVE your work,
means greater efficiency, less tiredness at the end of your day, and
greater possibilities for advancement. Love brings a softness and charm
which you feel, and added happiness to the one who possesse it. What
a difference we find between a cold, cruel, calculating person; and a
person who is full of love.
Love is a far greater asset than beauty I assure you, and LOVE
CAN BE POSSESESD BY ALL, while beauty cannot be. Strive to
express love more and more. I don’t mean toward any given individual,
but toward life and the world in general. Learn to love nature and
all things of the higher type in life. When I run across a man for
instance who does not love dogs, I feel there is something lacking in
him and I am not as inclined to trust him. The bible says, "Love thy
neighbor as theyself.” That is the kind of love I refer to. For one to
say they see no beauty or love expressed in some of nature’s wonderful
manifestations, such as an unusual sunset, majestic mountains with
snow capped peaks, flowers and foliage, means he is just not in touch
with God. Try to give out more and more love and that will tend
toward eliminating the many little self-centered thoughts which may
be limiting your life. If you LOVE people, you will not FEAR people
and self consciousness will be gone.
PERSONALITY WILL BE ADDED TO THROUGH DEVELOP­
ING POISE AND CALMNESS.
Be poised and calm in facing trying situations. Remember there is
a vast difference between controlled and uncontrolled emotion. Some­
one says something to irritate you and your feeling of resentment will
say "fight back.” But unless REASON says that it is the right thing
to do at that moment, don’t listen to the dictates of feelings. The
minute anger or uncontrolled emotion begin to have sway, you lose your
poise, become confused, and are in a position to get the worst of the
combat. At such times it is a mighty good practice to THINK BEFORE
YOU SPEAK. Sorrow, regret, financial loss, and even tragic situations
frequently follow the act of throwing judgment to the winds.
Did you ever see two prize fighters in combat? Watch the tactics
some of these trained fighters employ. They say things to irritate their
94
opponents, to anger them if possible, knowing if they can get them
good and mad that they will have the best of it. But see that fighter
who remains calm, like the champion Joe Louis, and you will find him
poised, boring in constantly, but fully alive to what he is doing,
watchful, ever wide awake, just watching his chance for that blow
which he knows will weaken his adversary if he can just land it. Of
course he can be beaten by another calm and poised fighter with more
science or power, but you may have noted that this calmness which
Joe Louis has shown has in time actually frightened most of his
adversaries.
If YOU will just remain calm and poised you will find it will give
you a tremendous advantage in fighting life’s battles. So strive to
develop these two real assets so that you may in life meet opposition
on at least an equal footing. Look back over your life and you will
find many situations where you have gotten the worst of it through
YOUR lack of poise and calmness.
If O. Henry after battling with disease and then being sent to prison
for a period of five years for something he probably never did, had lost
his poise and calmness in the face of these disasters, he would never
have written the books he did, or have been the beloved character he
was in later life.
And suppose John Bunyan had become embittered by his confine­
ment in jail due to his religious teachings. Would he have been capable
of writing his Pilgrim’s Progress that almost every child in the world
has read?
If people who have to face long prison sentences for either principle
or because of some injustice done, were to write without reason, poise
and calmness directing it, their books would represent ravings at the
injustice done, tell the world of the hardships they suffered. _But
solitude and confinement in many instances has made men of poise and
calmness THINK, and this THINKING has given something noble
to the world which has had a decided influence for good? ’
But the bandit, who is governed more or less by misdirected emotions
and anger, plans "how he can get square,” and leaves his confinement
with murder in his heart and the world at large his prey. And his
ending is usually a sad one.
Viewing poise and confidence and calmness from all standpoints,
you will find it more than worth while in the good fight I am sure you
intend to put up in order to make it YOURS.
95
CHAPTER 13
How to Direct Your Energy Wisely, and Thus Add to Success
How to Acquire the Greatest Thing in Life— Happiness
STRIVE TO BE JUST YOUR OWN REAL SELF
X7"EARS ago I recall that an acquaintance of mine, a physician, made »
a trip abroad and stayed in England for a period of three months.
On his return we all found he had developed a very decided English
accent. His friends joked about this behind his back and he lost favor
in their sight.
Don’t undertake to be something that you are not.
Don’t try to masquerade in some mental or physical attire which
fails to represent the REAL YOU.
You hear some girl talk "baby talk” and find that it appeals to a
certain type of men, and perhaps you start in trying to imitate her.
Unless you were born and trained with a nature, mentally and physic­
ally, which rather naturally produces this particular mannerism, you
would lose friends rather than gain them by attempting it. For a large
girl or woman to attempt to talk in this babyfied manner, is very much
out of place and does not fit at all. A small girl, of a certain type,
possibly would be able to make herself into such a personality success­
fully.
Bear in mind that YOU ARE A TYPE, naturally so, and you will
do well to study YOUR type and make the best presentation possible
which will represent that type. We are not all bom actors or actresses,
and if we were, we forget and revert to our true form of expression and
give ourselves away if we attempted to impersonate something or some­
one we really were not. So the safest plan is to JUST BE YOURSELF,
but as big and fine and splendid a self as you can possibly create.
WASTED THOUGHT ENERGY
If one tenth of the power you waste in idle and aimless thinking were
intelligently directed along lines of health, happiness, success and
personality improvement, you would be a very different man or woman.
Suppose you were to run a business the way you do your THOUGHT
LIFE, how successful do you think you would be? Isn’t your life and *
your future as important as any business could be? Mr. Average Man
or Mrs. Average Woman, gives comparatively little real consideration
96
to his or her thought life. Thoughts come and go so easily, that we
have sometimes wondered whence they come and whither they go. But
remember I have said that "THOUGHTS ARE THINGS,” that
thought is a real FORCE, for good or evil; for success or failure; for
happiness or misery; for a displeasing personality or a pleasing one.
So you see THOUGHT is very important and deserves your careful
consideration.
Thoughts which filter through your mind without coordination or
direction, confuse you, and, through this lack of direction, thoughts
can become most confusing and cause you to express a self that is not
really YOU, and that you really do not wish to present to the world.
Yet, through lack of practice and understanding, you feel powerless
to be master of this situation.
Louisville, Ky., must have been a sad looking spot following the
flood, with pavements destroyed, buildings weakened and a mass of
muck inside and outside to the point the water raised; and if you were
to view such a situation in the light that you perhaps have your thought
life and personality, you would feel completely discouraged and surely
say, "What’s the use ?” But I am told that, about a year after this bad
flood, that in driving through Louisville one could hardly recognize the
fact that they had experienced this tragedy. Now if you were to show
the same courage and determination in shaping up, coordinating, direct­
ing and cleaning up your THOUGHT LIFE, you would soon bring
chaos into a harmonious condition where life would represent ACTION
of a constructive, creative character and you would have PERSON­
ALITY PLUS.
Man has seemed to be slow in discovering how to utilize the great
forces of nature, but when his attention is fully attracted to the power,
the streams begin to serve him and give him power; electric energy is
directed in most helpful channels of expression; the radio is made
possible; wireless communication develops stage by stage until we
marvel at its vastness; the law of gravity is overcome and heavier than
air ships sail through the heavens and carry passengers to distant points
in a space of time that the fantastic minds would not have dreamed of
a short time ago.
Realizing that man’s mind has accomplished all these wonders, does
it seem too much to ask or too hard a task for you to BELIEVE that
you can direct YOUR MIND into channels which will make a charm­
ing, magnetic, pleasing PERSONALITY POSSIBLE TO YOU? Are
you going to stand still in the face of all this evidence of what man's
?7
mind can do? No, I am sure you are not. You are going to realize
YOUR greatness and begin to make things possible to your life which,
in the past, FEAR has caused you to feel you could not do.
All through the history of man little things have been made into
mighty ones through man directing his thoughts toward the study of
them.
%
We would still be grinding our grains by the slow process of pul­
verizing it with a stone, were it not that man did some THINKING.
We would not have had the power which confined steam produces, if
Watt had not watched the tea-kettle lid lifted by the steam within, and
given it some THOUGHT.
This very same energy, THOUGHT, when permitted to run wild,
is capable of making your life most miserable and of robbing you of
that fine personality which you could express, if you too would just
give your life some THOUGHT and begin to direct your mental
energy into different channels.
Suddenly ask the average man or woman what he or she is thinking
about. One says, "Of what was I thinking? I scarcely know—a medley
of things good, bad and indifferent. How tiresome my work is; and
how glad I will be when it is all over; how stupid everybody is; how
I wish I had spoken a little differently to my friend yesterday; and
what a vexatious and unsatisfactory thing life is.”
Another says, "Oh, I was thinking what a glorious world this is;
what a joyous thing is life,—life that gives me these beautiful thoughts,
such lovely friends, these uplifting emotions, this delicious, satisfying
air—and the power to breathe it! I was thinking I want always to
hold in my heart these exquisite emotions and to be worthy of the
priceless gift of life.”
Had you asked a former busy Montana States Attoreny, now dead,
he would have replied: "I am happy in striving to justify my exist­
ence.” Have you forgoten that YOU OWE SOMETHING TO LIFE ?
That you have a definite position to fill in life if you are to fulfill your
mission here? Life can’t be just a purely selfish thing without causing
great unhappiness, either to the individual himself, or to others.
Still another replies: "I was thinking of a plan I have in mind,
something of inestimable value to the world, and I am going to think *
it out to a finish, and then I am going to WORK it out, and you will
then be able to see what it is worth.”
98
Is your mind held down to ANY definite purpose? If it is, it is
different from the average. Many lives are filled with doubts and mis-
givings~and ~indecision, which fosters confusion, unhappiness, and
sometimes even pain. Are you one who is constantly searching outside
of self for the solution of your problems, when a little study of that
inner YOU would change it all?
My good friend, a well-rounded PERSONALITY means that YOU
are in command of self, that you do what good judgment, reason,
THINKING, directs you to do. After you have given these forces of
yours conscious direction until a HABIT IS FORMED, you will then
no longer have to wonder whether you had better do this or that, for
you will be quite sure to do the rightlRing under ordinary cbndtfibfis,
WITHOUT THOUGHT. By then your lite will be regulated auto­
matically as to right and wrong; you will know the proper or the
improper thing; the suggestion you should accept and reject; just as the
temperature of one’s home is regulated as to heat by the thermostat.
Please bear in mind that I do not wish you to become such a perfect
person that you will carry any of these ideas to the extreme. I have
been in peoples’ homes where the wife has developed such an exag­
gerated idea of order that she is made miserable if a caller sees anything
out of place; or even a grain of dust on some piece of furniture in the
room. Such extremes bring unhappiness to the house-wife and to her
guests as well. Be conservative and reasonable in living your life, both
inside and outside of your home.
Many feel that they must be poor, unhappy, sensitive, timid, self
conscious, serious and otherwise afflicted, because they have always
been so, or have been so, for perhaps years. There is too much of the
thought, "Like father like son;” or, "Like mother like daughter,” in
the minds of people. There never would have been any progress in
this world had everyone assumed such an attitude. You can be
DIFFERENT from your father or mother; it is in your power to live
’¿YOUR LIFE as YOU wish to, and you are not FATE-DRIVEN. But
you have not THOUGHT this thing out, but have accepted certain
suggestions, as children often do in connection with religion and
politics, and that is as far as you have gone. People fail to THINK >
'.
A— FOR THEMSELVES and are dominated too much by precedent. YOU
are an individual personality, YOU have the power to make your life
quite different from that of your mother or father; or classmates; or
the social set that you have happened to be a member of. Thought
has a wonderful faculty of working out what it represents. Now if
you will THINK in an individual way, as an individual person, and
plan YOUR LIFE as you wish it to be, it will to a very great extent
BE THAT WAY if you faithfully persevere. Why class yourself with
the big majority? Why make yourself one of the common herd?
My good friend, wake up to YOUR possibilities, break down these
false limitations which you have built up, and express YOUR PER­
SONALITY as an individual. You ARE different from all other
people, for there are no two people JUST alike. Now make that differ­
ence which you represent something which will make YOU outstanding
as a PERSONALITY.
The man who makes his dreams come true is the man who earnestly
and diligently searches, demands and fights for what is rightfully his.
HOW TO ACQUIRE THE GREATEST THING IN LIFE
— HAPPINESS
I am sure you realize that without Happiness it is impossible for
you to express a winning PERSONALITY. Happiness is essential
to a wholesome, uplifting, friendly joy-giving bearing.
Think of PERSONALfiTY as an expression of YOUR individual
THOUGHT ATMOSPHERE and you will then realize how very
important it is to have contentment and joy within, if you are to
express a thought atmosphere which people will enjoy contacting. I
have had sick people tell me that certain people who came into the
room seem to bring a cloud, while others brought the sunshine, though
not a word may have been spoken. That patient felt the THOUGHT
ATMOSPHERE which these people radiated.
Happiness is a STATE OF MIND. It isn’t something that environ­
ment, circumstances or conditions outside of yourself produce, but it
is WHAT YOU THINK. For some nine years I lived in a Social
Settlement House, located in a large Italian Colony. It was my privi­
lege to contact hundreds of these people, most of them simple peasant
people. The men’s work was largely unskilled labor, seasonal in
character. They were largely a happy group of people, who surely
practiced the statement in the bible which reads: "Take no anxious
thought for the morrow, what ye shall eat, what ye shall drink, or
wherewithal ye shall be clothed.” I have known of many instances
where people actually would not know where tomorrow’s food was to
be procured, and yet they were as happy as could be. They just KNEW
they would be provided for in some way, and if they had to skip a few
100
meals I do not believe it would take the joy of living out of their
hearts.
In my contact with people I believe I can truthfully say that my
experience has been that the rich are really less happy than the poor.
The rich take life more seriously, provided they have had to fight their
way to the top, for making money is rather a serious affair.
I recall a wealthy man who came to me with what would probably
seem to you quite a strange problem. He told me that his father was
always a "driver,” of himself and men, and had taught him that the
worthwhile things could be procured through putting your whole life
into your business. He said, "One must work all day, think, think,
think of his business problems during his spare hours, and then dream
about them at night.” This patient was fifty years old, had never spent
a carefree, completely happy day in his life, had laid aside something
like two million dollars, and after telling me his story he asked, "Can
you teach me how to play?” He said he could not leave his business
for one day without wondering if those he had left behind were con­
ducting it in a proper way. You see this man had lived such a serious
life all his life, that it was at this stage a deeply rooted, well-fixed
HABIT that he did not know how to break. But in spite of those years
of over-serious thought and action, and the strong habit which he had
formed, I am pleased to say that he did learn how to play.
And if YOU have any such habit I ASSURE YOU that you can
change it and be happy. You will have to FORCE yourself away from
the over-serious thoughts more and more; and make yourself do
things which in time will develop a habit of mental freedom and real
happiness. Most of the things which you permit to rob you of the
happy life which should be yours are non-essentials. You have become
over-conscientious perhaps, and just taken the finer things of life too
seriously, just as that housewife I wrote of was made unhappy if any
little thing was not just as it should be.
No, in place of giving so much attention to the little details of life,
make up your mind that you will give attention only to the real essen­
tials, and that you will make yourself do things during these spare
moments that slighting the little details will bring, in honestly trying
to play and be happy. Your over-seriousness is only HABIT, and being
happy is merely reversing your thoughts and giving more attention to
happiness. In the beginning you will not find joy in doing many of
the things that you see others derive real happiness from, for your
1 0 1
mind will not be attuned to these new things in a way which will bring
happiness. But little by little you will find your attitude changing and
will get more and more of a real "kick” out of some of these things
which you now wonder, "How people can find happiness in.” My
friend, the great majority can’t be wrong in finding happiness in these
things you find little happiness in; so just make up your mind that
YOU must be wrong, and that you intend to change your vision and
viewpoint and be normal.
The real essentials to happiness are all about us. The reason you
may not have experienced happiness is only due to the fact that you
have not drawn on the supply. You have not pictured it as possible for
YOU to enjoy things the way you see others enjoy them. But that is
a wrong interpretation; a wrong conception of what it takes to be
happy. You have been seeking happiness outside, in added wealth,
which you feel some day may be yours; in the possibility of marriage;
in the hope that you may have a child to make you happy; and all sorts
of things which you feel are not present at this moment. In keeping
your eyes on these outside things you have entirely overlooked the
blessings in your life which exist TODAY. Just remember what I have
said that HAPPINESS IS A STATE OF MIND, and can be present
in you AT ONCE, if you can bring your mind to center itself on the
happy things in your life today, and not on something which you hope
may transpire in the future. Your life TODAY and in the FUTURE,
is and will be to a great extent WHAT YOU MAKE IT.
102
C H A P T E R 14
Hoiv to Determine YOUR Most Promising Social or Business
Activity e How to Overcome Fear of People, Responsibility,
Yourself, Death, and Ollier Unreasonable Fears
rT"' HOUSANDS of people have written me and asked, "What would
you suggest that I take up as a life’s work?” Usually I am furnished
very little information to judge from, but even though I am, I usually
write about the same thing, for it is hardly possible for ANYONE to
definitely state JUST what a stranger who writes is best suited for.
A Character Analyst might give some little information, but I have
known so many cases where such an expert has advised certain things,
due to the shape of the head and the bumps found thereon, which is
shown through a study of one’s background and his own personal desires,
to be quite wrong, that I no longer refer such inquirers to such experts.
REASON is one of the best guides. To wish to become a profes­
sional man, with only a common school education to back it, is of course
out of the question. To long for an operatic career, when one possesses
only a fair quality of voice, is naturally foolish. About thirty percent
of the people who write to me wish to be authors. This too calls for a
good understnding of English, rhetoric, composition, grammar, plus
imgination and somewhat of a natural talent to tell things that you see
in an interesting way. You should be SURE that you have a proper
background if that wish is desired, or you will be making a mistake.
It is quite all right for you to take up any of these things as a
hobby, and do the best you can at it, and it is just possible that through
patient study and effort you may succeed. Many have. But you should
remember that it does take patience and perseverance. It is said that
Robert Louis Stevenson spent twenty years in the study of English,
grammar and composition before he felt qualified to write his first
book. But when he did write that book, he wrote a good one. Do you
feel that you could plod away with the thought in mind that it might
require years of study before you could market your writings, and keep
up your courage and-confidence all through that long period? If you
can, then it is worth trying. But let it be a hobby to begin with and
then, when you have become sufficiently proficient to make it lucrative,
you could then give your entire time to the work. I do not wish to
discourage you, but simply state facts.
TfyeYact of the matter is that ANY career requires lots of effort,
patience, confidence and perseverance before you really make good. We
103
rarely ever jump right(into success, but it is found a question of slow
development and years usually pass by before we have reached our goal.
You must be willing to pay the price in effort for success. Too fre­
quently the college graduate receives his diploma and believes that now
he is qualified to immediately step into something very lucrative. He
has just learned how to think on completion of his college course and
there is now before him the greatest form of development he has yet
passed through, that of EXPERIENCE. He has to learn some business,
or study for some profession and pass through the period of building
up a clientele. Yes, in business lines he will make a good living prob­
ably soon after he graduates, that is, a fair salary for one of his years
and experience, but that is far from real success and the salary he may
have pictured he would receive after his graduation. So expect just a
lot as far as the future years are concerned, but don’t be disappointed if
you have to begin at the bottom as far as present remuneration is
concerned.
Now here is what I usually tell people who ask me, "What lines of
work do you think I am best qualified to do?”
Carefully analyze your mental, physical and educational assets. Then
write down the various things which you have had in mind that you
might wish to enter into for a life’s work. If you find you are not as
well prepared mentally, physically or educationally as you should be in
connection with certain things you wish to do, either eliminate these
things from your list, or push them from your mind for the moment
until you have qualified yourself. Now those which remain I want you
to carefully consider and see if there are one or two of these you would
love to do more than others. You will of course be able to do some­
thing you take a deep interest in, and love to do, better than anything
else, provided you are qualified. This might leave two or three things
that you find it difficult to choose from. It is your lack of experience
which forms the doubt in your mind. But choose one, even though you
are obliged to resort to the tossing of a coin, or drawing slips from a
hat. Don’t stand still. You might a great deal better do SOMETHING,
and later find that it is not the thing you love to do the most, than to
do nothing. And don’t feel that you have wasted your time in choosing
the wrong one, for you have not. You have gained some experience
which will serve you in the future and make the new thing easier. After
giving things careful consideration CHOOSE QUICKLY and get to
work. This "doubt” you have is due only to lack of confidence which
most anyone without experience might have for the moment. If you
understand yourself and your personal assets well, I am sure you will
104
be able to easily choose if you just show a little more confidence in your
judgment.
I have a friend who entered business life when about twenty-one
* years of age. At the age of thirty-five he became interested in painting,
and at the age of forty-one had advanced to a stage where he gave up
a $6,000.00 a year position for his art. He is making a real success
of it, and is very happy. My suggestion is for you to ACT QUICKLY
in selecting something and DON’T WASTE TIME.
HOW TO OVERCOME UNREASONABLE FEAR
Unreasonable fear can rightfully be called,_MAN’S WORST
ENEMY. By the term "Unreasonable Fear” I mean fears which you
find are not held by the average man or woman. These are largely fears
which pertain to SELF. Self consciousness, Worry, Apprehension,
Over-seriousness, Over-anxiety, lack of confidence; Fears of death,
suicide, poverty, etc. Of course these fears limit you tremendously and
make it quite impossible for you to express a strong, pleasing person­
ality. And too, they rob you of the success which could be yours were
they absent.
These Fears represent only “Mental Ghosts” which haunt you and
make you unhappy. They exist only in YOUR MIND. Your own
thoughts are responsible for them, and it merely represents YOUR
faulty viewpoint. So they have ONLY the power that YOU gave to
them. They are foolish and most unreasonable, yet, when you have been
a slave to them for sometime and the habit of Fear is strong within you,
you feel "trapped” and wonder where you can turn for relief. If you
have tried to throw off these fears and have been unsuccessful, my sug­
gestion is that you seek a qualified Psychologist to help you out.
Many are of the opinion that they have inherited these fears, because
they have learned that a father or mother, grandfather or grandmother,
had some similar fears. You have inherited a sensitive, emotional
nature, with a tendency toward nervousness, but not the fears them­
selves. Such a nature is fertile soil for the growth of these fears, unless
„ one sidetracks this tendency by fortifying himself with a clear under­
standing jmd establishes CONFIDENCE IN HIMSELF. Faith is the
opposite of fear, and if you have faith you just CAN’T have fear, for
• the two cannot live under the same roof. We do inherit certain fears
which are natural to man. These fears are merely those which cause
us to exercise precaution when possible danger is near. The cat is a
105
-natural enemy of the dog, and fears him, which is quite natural. But
for you to FEAR YOURSELF is certainly classed in the unreasonable
fears. A suggestion is frequently the beginning of these acute fears.
Such people being sensitive and impressionable, it requires only a sug­
gestion of the possibility of this, that or the other thing, to implant a
seed of tear. A physician may say to some patient, not really meaning
it, "You had better stop that foolishness or you will go crazy.” That
may be the beginning of a very acute fear of insanity. Or, he may look
just a litle grave in examining one’s heart, and immediately that im­
pressionable mind jumps to the conclusion that he has heart trouble and
a fear of collapse or death may follow. A child who is born somewhat
underweight, or who shows signs of weakness, perhaps only through
diet, is constantly reminded of that weakness by many parents and the
very things which WOULD develop strength are eliminated with such
statements as, "Don’t let Clara or John do that, you know he or she
is not strong and it might hurt him or her.” All this is adding
fears constantly until he or she believes that it is quite impossible to
do the usual things in life.
If you have some of these fears, and in your calm moments you feel
quite sure they are unreasonable; or if you have been told by people
who should know, that they are unreasonable, there is just one way
you can crush them. No mattet what your reactions may be, how weak
you may feel, how panicky you may become, you must go right in the
face of them and build up courage and confidence through EXER­
CISING these powers. ALL you lack is CONFIDENCE and COUR-
AGE, and these CANNOT be acquired through your continuing to
seek lines of least resistance. IGNORE the fears to the best of your
abilityTor the less thought you give them, the weaker they will become.
Let me assure you that NOTHING SERIOUS WILL HAPPEN TO
YOU UNDER SUCH CIRCUMSTANCES. Take the word of your
physician who has told you that there is nothing seriously wrong with
you and DON’T feel that he must be mistaken. HE KNOWS.
Have you let timidness keep you from applying for some work that
you may badly need? This too is only an unreasonable FEAR. Go and
seek out that work, show as much confidence as possible in having your
interview with your prospective employer, and DON’T LET THIS
FEAR RULE YOU AND RUIN YOUR LIFE. You know the "race
is to the strong and brave.” You too can be brave with a little prac­
tice. But ONLY through exercising the power of CONFIDENCE.
How can you possibly have confidence if you are constantly doing
things which make you rather ashamed of yourself ? Start doing things
106
in spite ofjmur fears and then you will begin to feel proud of yourself
and find yourself growing more confident and courageous. Learn to
TRUST YOURSELF and to take your rightful position in life! Such
an attitudej followed by action, will begin to bring out quite a different
personality in you and you will in time command the respect which is
quite properly yours.
How can people like you; how can an employer trust you; how can
you be respected ? When you haven’t those thoughts or feelings regard­
ing yourself.
Now as to the fear of death which many possess. This is primarily
just a lack of confidence and courage. Death has a mysticism con­
nected with it which causes one to fear. It is something unprovable as
far as our future existence is concerned, so, like the cat which naturally
fears water that he has never been thrown in, you fear death, for it
is something you have never passed through and therefore do not fully
understand. But if you DO throw the cat into the water, you will find
it swimming for shore, although the cat has never been in the water
before.
The average person does not give death very much thought. Those
who do, are sensitive and impressionable and just lack the courage to
face life and death in the way we call normal. If you suffer from this
fear the thing for you to do is to develop a different attitude toward
death which will bring peace to your mind. One who is religious and
really believes in his religion, does not fear death, for his faith in God
and His love and justice causes him to think, "Well, I can trust Him,
and I KNOW He will take good care of me.” If you DO believe in
the God the Bible pictures how can you possibly fear death? He is
spoken of as a just, loving, merciful and long-suffering Deity. Can’t
you trust such a wonderful Father? Perhaps you say, "It isn’t just the
fear of my state in the hereafter, but an unwillingness, a fear, of leav­
ing my loved ones and this life which I so closely cling to.” Partings
are serious and sorrowful. But there is no reason why you can’t face
such things in the same courageous way others do. Why should YOU
fear and be so sorrowful, while others are so brave. I think I would
feel just a little ashamed of my own weakness under such circumstances.
And to the one who hasn’t strong religious convictions let me say—
if you do not believe in a hereafter and believe that the grave is the
end, that thought should bring the thought of peace, an end to all the
struggles, and not a fear of it. Life is somewhat of a struggle of course,
and the thought of a peaceful ending to it all should comfort you.
107
In analyzing death I find there is NOTHING to fear, for no matter
what may follow, I have a strong conviction that life is something pro­
gressive, and that death is just a step forward. It is like stepping from
one room into another. Everything in Nature shows that there is no
such thing as death, it is merely a changing of form. The tree appar­
ently dies, but in actuality it changes form. It may serve as fertilizer,
it may go to help make up a new coal field, it may even change into
carbon and be a part of some beautiful diamond.
Have a philosophy of life and death and refuse to fear it. Don’t
live a life of "living death” and thus rob yourself of the joys which life
offers so abundantly. There is nothing REAL to fear in death and this
too must be classified with unreasonable fear. The building up of
confidence and courage will put an end to it. You CAN’T have an
attractive personality and continue to permit these unreasonable fears
to exist.
HOW TO OVERCOME MYSTICISM, SUPERSTITION, IMAGIN­
INGS AND THE NEGATIVE FORMS OF LIFE.
Do you realize that superstition, mysticism and mysterious imaginings
originated in the minds of the uneducated? The uneducated negro is
responsible for some of our superstitions and other things have origi­
nated among a lower class whose minds cannot function normally, due
to their reason and judgment not being fully developed.
Do YOU fear sitting down at the table where there are thirteen?
Do you fear to walk under a ladder, or to start a journey on Friday, or
are you afraid of the number thirteen, or of the hundred and one other
signs of superstition which are feared by some? I hope not, but if you
are, you may be sure that these too are most unreasonable fears. Certain
things are supposed to be unlucky. Do you realize that there is really
no such thing as luck ? So called luck is merely a mathematical problem.
Things good or bad happen in a certain definite percentage. One
might be killed on Friday the thirteenth, but so are people killed on
other days as well. Someone might die who happened to sit down with
thirteen at the table, but YOU MAY BE SURE that it was not the
thirteen that had anything to do wtih it. If you walk under a ladder the
only thing that might happen is that a bucket of paint or something
else might fall on your head. That would be the only reason to avoid it.
These signs of superstition have passed from mouth to mouth, start­
ing as I have said, in the minds of the ignorant, and the sensitive and
108
impressionable have fallen into the trap of superstition, especially if
something they knew of HAPPENED to occur that could possibly be
connected with it. It takes but ONE such instance for the sensitive to
develop a very real fear. Unreasonable fear has to attach itself to
something, so the minds of the sensitive conceive these various things
which they believe were responsible for it. To show fears of this
nature only pictures an undeveloped reasoning power, for there is NO
REASON back of superstition or mysticism. God has given you a
reasoning power to USE, and if you DO use it properly, superstition
will find no dwelling place in YOUR mind. What are termed super­
natural things do not exist, for EVERYTHING is according to LAW.
Something may transpire which we have never heard of before, for we
are constantly learning. But that is not supernatural, merely something
that we have not previously understood.
Negative minds are susceptible minds, for little confidence exists in
such a mind. A negative mental attitude is one which is receptive to
anything which it may dwell on that is at the moment unexplainable.
Such people fear unexplainable pains, feelings, sensations and experi­
ences. DON’T let these fears rule you, but USE YOUR REASON and
go right in the face of them and be a THINKING, CONFIDENT man
or woman. Joke about superstitious signs if you wish, but don’t believe
them. People will laugh at you behind your back, or perhaps even to
your face, if you express these unreasonable fears before them.
/
10$.
C H A P T E R 15
How to Develop the Power of Concentration and Self-Control.
The Destructive Power of Monotony or Colorless Lives.
HOW TO DEVELOP THE POWER OF CONCENTRATION
AND SELF CONTROL
XT'OU must have a fairly well developed power of concentration in
order to express real personality or be a success in life. How is it
possible for one to control and direct his life without the power to
place his mind and thoughts fully upon the objective his mind con­
ceives. Thinking of two or three things at the same time never solved
anything. It is through directing the full force of your mind on what
you wish to accomplish which brings results.
When concentration is poor your mind becomes a pile instead of a
fde. You cannot pigeon hole several thoughts at the same time and have
your mind in order. An orderly mind represents a bright, intelligent
mind and PERSONALITY. You wouldn’t call a flighty person interest­
ing, for they are not dependable, and usually have little depth to them.
People who lack concentration are usually moody and they picture
their lives as monotonous. It is because they have no great number of
interests—real interests—which they have concentrated on and followed
to a conclusion. A smattering of knowledge never brings deeply rooted
interests. Take for example one who has the hobby of collecting stamps.
He is usually sufficiently interested so that he can tell you all about the
various issues of different countries by name; will travel quite a distance
in order to rather enviously look over some fine collection; and denies
himself many things in order to purchase some additional stamps which
he is enthused over. He spends his evening hours sorting over his new
stamps, putting them in his book just where they belong, and he almost
reverently gazes at some specially fine specimens.
I have an acquaintance who is all absorbed in radio work as a hobby.
He is a licensed amateur operator, and spends nights, many times well
into the morning hours, talking with other radio fans at a distance.
He kindly offered to go over a radio set of mine for me, because I
happened to possess an unusually good set and he was interested in
going over every part. He came one evening and on my invitation was
asked to eat dinner with us, as I knew he could not work late for he
had told me that he had an 8:30 appointment with a girl he was going
with and intended to marry. I called him when dinner was ready and
had to do so several times, for he was so interested in what he was
110
doing that he disliked to leave it. As soon as he had eaten something
he excused himself, before the dessert was served, and went back to
work. Eight o’clock came and I called in and told him the hour and
that he had better begin to wash up and get ready to keep his appoint­
ment. I did so again later, and he said, "I can’t leave this right at this
point.” But I said, "Your girl will be looking for you.” He replied,
"Oh, she knows me and will expect me when she sees me.” He left at
nine o’clock to keep his appoinmtment. I do not relate this as concern­
ing a well-formed personality, but merely to show you what I mean by
concentration. When he was working I would have to almost shout
for him to grasp what I was saying. But from a success standpoint, he
is going places, for such concentration cannot help but bring success.
He has gone into the laboratory of one of the large radio and television
corporations and, being a college man and well versed in electrical work,
is rapidly receiving recognition.
Again, the power of Concentration, like most things, is_developed
through EXERCISE and USE. Try to_hold your, mind on whatever you.
have in hand, and KEEP IT THERE until you are ready to direct your
attention to some other objective.
Here are a few forms of exercise for developing concentration:—
Concentrating on what you are reading, and learning to do so while
conversation or some other noise is present, will be of assistance. In
beginning this, you will probably find your mind divided between
scraps of the conversation you absorb and your reading. If you find
that you have failed to fully grasp a page of the matter you have read,
go all over it again as a discipline and form of exercise, and do it
several times if necessary, until you ARE perfectly familiar with that
page you have read. So frequently we hear someone shout in an irri­
tated way, "Stop that noise, how can I read with that going on.” That
person COULD be entirely oblivious to the noise if he were able to
concentrate well.
In talking with people, be sure to concentrate fully on what is being
said. The minds of self conscious people are usually divided between
the conversation and thoughts of self. Learn through practicetq fully
concentrate on a conversation. It will not alone add to your under-
standing, and make a deep impression cm your mind so that you will
retain the thoughts, but it will add materially to your success in life.
Here is rather a difficult exercise. Look at one of the walls in your
home and mentally draw a square of any size thereon. Now in this
square mentally draw a circle which touches the four sides of the
i l l
square; and, the last step, mentally draw a dot in the middle of that
circle and visualize yourself pulling on that dot and drawing it out so
that it will form a cornucopia, just taking into consideration the circle
and the dot.
If you will give this subject of concentration a little thought you
will find that just EVERYTHING you do CAN be made an exercise
for the development of this power, if you will give it a little conscious
attention for a time.
SELF CONTROL
This is another very important power to cultivate in expressing
PERSONALITY, strength, and in achieving SUCCESS.
How can you possibly be self reliant, positive, strong in thought and
action, with the power to direct your life, unless you are able to exercise
CONTROL OVER YOURSELF? I find many look upon CONTROL
as merely the power to refrain from showing anger; or of not permit­
ting themselves to be led into some immoral situation. But it is more
than that. The above merely represents two phases of extreme mani­
festation of emotion—curbing the horse so that he will not run away
with you and do great damage.” And of course we should control these
two forms of emotion, but let me go a little deeper.
We speak of one as a controlled person who has the power to regu­
late his habits, such as smoking and drinking, and keeping them within
proper bounds so that over-indulgence is not practiced. But please
realize that moods, depression, being agreeable socially, willing yourself
to think and live right, having a happy and wholesome viewpoint of
your fellowmen, refusing to carry scandal, and fitting yourself into as
perfect a picture of the way life should be lived as possible—all call
for CONTROL.
Real self control is not repression; it does not mean cutting ourselves
off from the various good things of life; it does not mean great sacri-
fice, it really means THE RIGHT VIEWPOINT and UNDERSTAND­
ING, and when that is established we will DESIRE to do the things
which represents normal control.
When you come to a clear realization or your liuc self, you recognize
in yourselT great talents, great ability and great capacity. Through con-
trol you protect YOURSELF from the loss of these good things, just
as a man places his valuables in a safety deposit vault for safe keeping.
You do not wish to DESTROY these powers that you have been blessed
with, and CONTROL is simply a form of insuring their permanency.
So you see it is your VIEWPOINT that merely has to be changed in
112
order for you to WISH to exercise control and make that power one
which will serve YOU. You will be mighty proud of yourself when
you have reached a point where you can COMMAND SELF, for that
will be one of the best forms of insurance you could possibly have.
You carry insurance to cover your worldly goods, your life, and perhaps
the possibility of accident. But what insurance have you in connection
with maintaining your normal powers so that you may retain a happy
state; efficiency; friends; your power to succeed. Your life insurance
would be of little avail if you were to lose friends, your mental balance
and your power to earn a living.
Get the right attitude toward these things you now look upon as hard
to accomplish. Realize that things which harm you and take away from
YOUR happiness and personality are attacking you at your very foun-
dation, and developing powers which are now weakened will become
a game you will play with pleasure. YOU and YOUR FUTURE are
the most important things, and should be the most interesting things
in your life.
And with a full realization of your greatness you will see that
ANYTHING within the range of possibility can be accomplished by
YOU. Of course you can develop concentration and control, and
likewise, a wonderful PERSONALITY.
DEVELOP A REAL INTEREST IN LIFE
LOVE LIFE, be glad you are alive, let life flow in and through you,
express life in happy terms. LIFE is YOU! YOU are life. Feel your
importance, for you are the most wonderful thing ever created as far
as this world is concerned. Don’t go about trying to hide that life and
sunshine you can express, but give of it freely, without one bit of fear.
A fine, wholesome attitude toward yourself and life; a real interest
in life; will mean that you will be quite sure to please people and show
real personality. If you love life, you of course must love people, for
they too, represent life. And if you love life and not yourself, you will
express thcTbest in you. We are at our worst only when we become too
conscious of ourselves and express selfishness.
Like all powers, we as humans have a sort of a dual personality, for
the powers within us can be manifested in either a constructive or
destructive way. There is within all of us a good and a bad self; a
strong and a weak self. These two personalities frequently tome into
conflict. At times our weaker, bad self gets the upper hand, but that is
not as it is intended. We CAN be in command of ourselves, and CAN
113
express that finer, nobler, bigger side of ourselves, if we are deter­
mined to.
This dual personality within us all has been given to us for a purpose.
Do you realize that if we hadn’t anything to fight within ourselves that
we would be characterless; and that it would not take many generations
to change us into spineless jelly fish? And the more forcefulness you
show in your fights with yourself, the stronger you will become, the
finer character you will possess, more wonderful personality you will
show. Don’t feel that Nature is a hard task master, for things are as
they should be and it is just our own faulty viewpoint which makes us
chafe at times.
HOW TO VIEW TODAY IN A CONTENTED WAY
I do not wish you to be ambitionless, far from it, but I wish you to
be contented with TODAY, but ever look ahead toward, and work for,
a better TOMORROW. And if you live life in the way you should
today, you are SURE to have a better tomorrow. Many people are con­
stantly grumbling about their lot today, wasting time and energy which
they might put into today, which would make for them a better tomor­
row. The world is full of grumblers, and they never get anywhere and
usually have a mighty disagreeable personality.
Think ONLY of today and what you can accomplish in the time
allotted for today. Cut out the grumbling and use that thought energy
toward accomplishing something real TODAY.
Do you recall that some years ago many people had a little motto on
their desks, or hanging on their walls, which read, "DO IT NOW’’?
That was a fine sign and a wonderful suggestion if followed out. Are
you one who is inclined to put off the hard things until tomorrow? If
so, change that habit, for it brings confusion, depression and disappoint­
ments and does not lead to success or personality. Each morning after
opening my mail I sort it out and divide it into things I must do today,
and things which can be left for future consideration. And do you
know what I usually do FIRST? What I consider to be the harder
things, so that then the balance of my day is a pleasure.
Do you know you can twist that little word "NOW” around so that
it expresses far more than you first realize? Doing a thing NOW,
means that you OWN those priceless powers within you and realize
their value. And through following up such a course you at last realize
that you have WON;
Coordinate your powers, have them work for you and not against
114
you; be the guiding head of that wonderful organism, for it is the
greatest piece of machinery ever created. Regulate your life and system­
atize it, not to the extent of making a slave of yourself but merely to
the"extent of your being in charge of things and directing that life as
YOtPwish it to be lived.
You see in viewing PERSONALITY I am not alone taking into
consideration sweetness, but STRENGTH AS WELL. We all know
sweet, negative souls, whom we both love and_feelLsorry for. You do
"not wish tcTbe such a personality I am sure. Following my lead will
not alone bring to you an IMPROVED PERSONALITY, but added
achievement in life as well. So, if you think that some of the things
I have written seem just a little bit foreign to personality alone, just
remember that I have gone into your powers and expressions of life
deeply, so that you may profit the more. I could have made these lessons
simple rules, but without a complete understanding I fear you would
not go very far in the matter of attainment.
LIFE IS WHAT WE MAKE IT
When we fully realize that WE are in charge of our lives, this fact
will be evident, that we ARE responsible for what we suffer to a great
eXKht, and mostoF our failures. I don’t mean by this that all who fail
have not tried, for many may have given long hours of labor to the
undertaking he has failed in. But if he HAS tried hard, then he has
not the right understanding of things, and has failed to put forth his
effort along proper lines; or he has chosen something for which he is
not fitted.
Occasionally I run across one who is TOO AMBITIOUS. He sets
for himself tasks that are perhaps too difficult for one man to accom­
plish in the time limit he has placed on himself; or he may have such
an exalted opinion of himself and what he can do, that he has too big
an objective, which he feels he can crystallize into reality.
But more frequently, failure, whatever the objective may be, is due
to lack of perseverance and the discouragement this brings. Discourage­
ment just stops the wheels of progress and we are at a standstill or on
the down-grade.
You have the right to expect to accomplish REASONABLE things.
You have a perfect right to expect success in your life. But remember
there are many things you must possess to be successful. PERSON­
ALITY will go a long way toward helping you achieve greatness, for
without friends to boost us and "pull for us,” discouragement usually
115
creeps in and suddenly our bubble which we have pictured as success,
bursts in our faces. It is quite as difficult for an individual to be suffi­
cient unto himself; as it is for one nation to believe that she can be
happy and prosper without the friendly attitude of other nations to
back them up. We all require considerable encouragement in order to
succeed, and much of this we must get from friends. But how are you
going to have these friends without YOUR giving something in the
way of a splendid PERSONALITY? You see the normal things of life
are governed by law, and PERSONALITY fits into these laws more
harmoniously and thus you not alone add to your happiness, "but success
as well.
I do hope you have been following me carefully and are trying to
put into ACTION the various suggestions I have given to you. I am
giving you my knowledge and understanding which is rich in experi­
ence, for I have possibly analyzed the minds of as many as 150,000
people. Accept my statements fully and ACT ON THEM IN A
FAITHFUL, CONSCIENTIOUS WAY. Strong effort is sure to
bring its reward.
THE DESTRUCTIVE POWER OF MONOTONY
OR COLORLESS LIVES
Could you but bare the lives of those about you so as to analyze, not
alone their actions, but their hearts as well, a sorry state would be dis­
covered in many, many people. While there is much in life to cheer
and bless, while there is music everywhere and delights to be found on
every hand, and while into the lives of all, many benefits and blessings
are injected, there comes a time when a situation is induced which
robs people of their characteristic effects.
We can have too much of even good things, to a point where it can
actually become monotonous. The life of the indulged, spoiled child
may in time become more monotonous than that of the children of the
poor who have something to look ahead toward and work for.
Experiences which come again and again, even when of most agree­
able types, at last fail to bring the responses which, in willingness and
intensity, are like the early ones. A musical chord, when borne to the
ears again and again without rest, at last becomes painful, no matter
how thrilling its first impression. Into many lives has crept a sameness,
which, by its constantly being repeated is at last driving people into a
state of frenzy. The tap-root of melancholy is found in experiences of
this order, and the irrational and startling acts of many people are
actuated by such a situation.
116
I do not mean by this that you are to devote your life to the doing
of only pleasant and agreeable things, and that you can expect great
pleasure and thrills from things at all times. Were we to be in a posi­
tion to do this it would not be best for us. We must at times suffer
........... ......... - -------------------- --------
hardships and adversity in order to develop strength, character, back­
bone, principle, will-power, control; and even happiness. Supreme
happiness is only felt by those who have tasted of adversity and are
able to draw a comparison.
Monotony not alone makes us unhappy, and perhaps so depressed
that we wish we had never been born; but it has a very pronounced
effect on the physical body as well. Montony lowers vitality and tone;
causes a slowing up of functional action, creates irritability, tension and
nervousness and may develop soil fertile for the growth of truly
serious ailments.
One of the early effects of montony is a dulling of ambition.
Life which has lost its color is a frequent cause of bad habits. In an
evil moment the subject of it finds in drink, narcotics and dissolute
living a temporary relief for his distresses. Discouragement and depres­
sion driven away by such expedients returns again and again with
renewed energy and perisistence.
Into all lives there come periods from which the brighter tints are
withdrawn. No matter what may be our station in life nor what the
degree of our optimisim, experiences of this kind are apt to be encoun­
tered. And it is far better so. I have heard many people in California
during the long sunny season pray for a cloud.
There is a broad rhythm running through life. It is to be seen in
both national and individual experience, in the financial, the political
and the social world, but none the less in our own private lives. In
our minds and bodies such a rhythm is as marked as elsewhere. It is
action and reaction, the out-going and in-coming tide, the lights and
shadows. It is the motion of the universal pulse, with its movements
felt down to the last capillary in the whole arterial system. Without
it there could be no life. This action is progressive in character until
interfered with by one becoming too conscious and overserious regard­
ing self.
Just now this entire world is passing through a period of evolution
and is most trying at present but will surely prove to the best good of
mankind if we just meet it with courage and confidence. A new order
will a little later prevail which will completely break down that old
order of things which were becoming monotonous and therefore irri­
tating and nerve racking.
117
In the marriage relations people feed on a diet of sweets and actually
believe that this highly emotional state will continue on and on. Then,
when things begin to subside to a state which is quite normal to married
life, one or the other begins to draw on his or her imagination and
pictures life as growing monotonous. There is not sufficient thought
as a rule given to marriage and its relations. It would be wrong for a
young couple to be sufficient unto themselves. They should have outside
interests, and it will be these outside interests that will prevent their
marriage from becoming monotonous.
Monotony is almost always a self-imposed state. It represents an
inability to meet life in a broad and full sense, it is an inability to adjust
one’s self to life, to be fully and completely interested in life—inner
resourcefulness is lacking. Such people fail to reason things out as they
should and are too frequently a slave to emotionalism. If you have the
right conception of life you should be able to take interest in even the
rather disagreeable work of washing and wiping dishes. It is your
thought toward the act which makes it just plain HARD WORK, or a
simple task and one of the many phases of LIFE. If we will do what
we feel we should with purposefulness and a smile, it will never seem
like drudgery.
We cannot be happy without being fully attuned to the present. It
does not pay to live in the past and become fossilized, nor to live in
tHF'future and thus become out of tune with the present.
The way to overcome monotony is through constantly making changes
in your life. Rearrange the furniture in your home, change the pictures,
break up the sameness. Add a little color to the picture of your home
and don’t have things looking rather sombre and cold. We are all more
or less receptive to environment and a home usually represents the
state of the mind of the one in charge of it.
Married people should if possible get away from each other for a
time a least once a year. It is good for both.
Men should make changes in their business life. Showing progres­
siveness, attempting new things, is good business and keeps one from
getting into a rut. Try to have your viewpoint rather flexible. Don’t
become too stubborn or set in your ways.
It is stimulating and healthy for both men and women to have lots
of friends, of the opposite as well as the same sex. Everyone should
make himself or herself a real part of life. Attend shows, lectures and
gatherings of various kinds. It will keep you alive and you will avoid
monotony.
118
C H A P T E R 1 6
How to Relax • How to Play • How to Im prove Physical
Beauty and Health Through Sim ple Forms of Exercise
' | 'HERE are certain definite things that you can do which will tend
toward increasing the circulation, eliminating the poisons from your
body, and add tone and vigor to your physical organism. These various
things if followed up, cannot help but bring added life and strength.
And too, you will find that through giving your body a fair chance,
you will add to your mental capacity and charm.
I am sure you have read how the movie stars are obliged to go
through various physical exercises and stunts in order to maintain a
good figure and give the appearance of health and loveliness. The
movie colony as a whole are athletic, and constantly prepared for any
physical test which their parts may call for. In this lesson I shall out­
line a number of things which will be of material service to you in this
matter of developing a splendid personality.
I realize that many will not have the time to carry out the program
I outline in a full and complete manner, but I hope you will do all
that time will permit of, and I am sure you will if you are truly inter­
ested in self improvement.
THE AMOUNT OF REST REQUIRED
This will depend partly on the type of work you do and your nature.
If your work is quite strenuous and your hours long, naturally you
expend more energy than one whose work is quite light and the hours
short, and this energy must be returned to the physical organism
through your taking plenty of rest. If your work is of a mental char-
acter, change, rather than long rest, will be found beneficial. Such
minds“need some play, in order to offsetjthe close mental application.
And play will act as rest to tk.it mind. Mental application, if your
mind is free from worry, is not excessively tiring and does not preclude
the possibility of your spending an enjoyable evening provided you do
not stay up too late.
HOW MANY HOURS SHOULD I SLEEP?
One with a nervous temperament requires more hours of sleep, or at
least relaxation, than one who is not nervous. I think it is safe to say
that eight full hours of rest is sufficient for any temperament, provided
one is in a fair state of health. I say rest, for I do not wish you to feel
that you must actually SLEEP the full eight hours. If relaxed, and in a
119
happy state of mind, rest will be found almost as beneficial as sleep. A
great many people worry because they feel they do not get enough sleep.
When you go to bed for the purpose of rest, TRY TO REST, and don’t
toss about, working yourself up into a nervous state, and worrying over
the fact that you are not sleeping, for to do that is defeating the purpose
you went to bed to accomplish, that of REST. If you will lie there
peacefully, and refuse to worry, the first thing you know you will be
asleep. Worry and anxiety stimulate the mind and that means LOSS
OF SLEEP.
I do not believe in making this question of sleep a problem, or of
your feeling that you MUST have your eight hours EVERY NIGHT.
Don’t be bound by habits, for that is weakening. Too long hours of
sleep is also weakening. Perhaps you are one who has been accustomed
to nine or ten hours of sleep. And, if you take but seven or eight under
such circumstances, you will feel a little tired on getting up. This is
due only to the fact that you have broken into a habit, and on taking
less sleep you will feel it for a time. But if you take eight hours rest
instead of ten for a time, a new habit will form and then you will find
you will feel even better with the eight hours of sleep than you did
with the ten.
If you are of a nervous temperament and have an opportunity, it is
well to lie down on the floor, flat on your back, two or three times a
day and stretch for a few minutes. Have your hands above your head
and reach out, as though you were stretching to recover something
that was just beyond your reach. And at the same time, stretch out
with your legs and feet in the same manner. Let this be followed by
a period of relaxation. A flat surface like the floor is far better for
relaxation than a bed or davenport. It permits your body to assume
a nearer natural posture. Watch an animal like a cat or dog and see
how it usually stretches when it gets up. Stretching is fine for the
nerves and circulation. You can do this for a few minutes before your
evening meal when you come home from work, if you are employed.
It is always well to relax for a few minutes before a meal. And if you
are employed, don’t rush out at noon, eat something quickly, and then
tear off on some short shopping expedition. Try to relax your mind
and body a little before you eat that lunch. Then, eat slowly and
masticate your food well. Make lunch, or any meal for that matter, a
pleasure, not a marathon.
HOW TO RELAX.
I have stated above the best physical posture for short periods of
1 2 0
relaxation, but one should have mental relaxation as well, even bring
the mind to bear on physical relaxation. In trying to relax, mentally
and physically, try to bring to your mind some pleasant picture which
will help to induce this state. For instance, instead of trying to relax
and at the same time solve some of your problems, try to picture such
a state as I shall now describe. Picture yourself as being on the bank
of a murmuring stream, under a big shady, spreading tree, on a
beautiful day in summer, with nothing to disturb you and no noise
present except the murmuring of that stream or the singing of birds.
This is just a suggestion. You could go over in your mind some very
pleasant experience of yours, which pictured something of a relaxing
character to your mind. But DON’T indulge in stimulating, irritating,
or depressing thoughts at such a time. REALLY RELAX — mentally
and physically. You will learn how to do this better and better with
practice.
HOW TO PLAY.
When you play, give yourself over to pleasure. If it is a game, don’t
be tense and all intent on the matter of YOUR winning, for that will
take away from it much of the real joy and make it a tiresome affair.
You must learn how to be a good loser. I have had people tell me
of how mad they got because just as they thought they were all set
to capture first prize in some bridge contest, ill-fortune stepped in, and
in the exchange of partners, they drew one who spoiled it all. Of
course that would be irritating, but a man’s or a woman’s life does
not depend on the winning of a bridge prize, and how foolish it is to
get all "hot and bothered” and actually poison your bodily juices,
through the effects of anger. I have read of a few instances where
people have dropped dead from a heart attack, just due to this anger.
A hundred bridge prizes, or a considerable sum of money, is not
worth wrecking your health over, let alone the mental anguish you
suffer.
So, enter into games, sports, or just forms of physical pleasures,
such as strolling with friends, and let it be TRULY PLEASURABLE
and relaxing. Be interested in games, but not tense. If you will form
into habits these things I have outlined, you will find life ever so
much more worth while.
WHAT PHYSICAL EXERCISES ARE BEST?
Well, for the average person some of the lighter forms. Walking,
dancing and swimming are among the best forms of exercise, for they
bring more muscles into action than other forms.
1 2 1
I believe everyone should cultivate the habit of walking consider­
ably. If you are not accustomed to it, start by walking just a mile a
day. Gradually, perhaps each week, add a half mile until you are
walking at least three miles a day, and it would be still better, for
your health’s sake, if you were to make it four or five miles.
Then too, I believe that everyone should do some simple calisthenics
at home. The best simple exercises are those which will stretch the
various parts of the body. Bending exercises, twisting, and with the
hands and arms raised, stretching the body as much as possible by
raising yourself on your toes. The bending exercises will help to keep
the bowels regular, and the others are for the purpose of increasing the
circulation through removing the tension in all parts of the body. Some
of these can be done on the floor. Remember your body requires
exercise if it is to function properly.
If you have reached middle life, simple exercises, such as I have
enumerated, will not harm you, unless you have been told by your
physician to avoid all exercise. Golf is fine for a younger man, or an
older one who has indulged in it for years, but I feel it is a mistake
for one in later years to begin this rather strenuous form of exercise.
There is a set of head exercises which will be found of benefit in
helping to keep the circulation to the brain full and complete. Bend
the head, first to the right, then to the left, as far as possible, using
some resistance in accomplishing it. Then do the same thing forward
and backward. Then rotate the head, first to the right, then to the left,
for a number of times. You had better sit down in taking this form of
exercise, for you may feel dizzy from it at first. Many people experi­
ence a tightness through the muscles in the back of the head, and these
exercises will help to limber things up.
And it is well to do the very same exercises in connection with the
eyes, turning them from side to side; upward and downward; and
rotating them, for it will help to strengthen the eye muscles and thus
add brilliancy and perhaps put off the day when glasses are required.
Also get the habit of blinking the eyes rather frequently, for this
furnishes the eyes with lubricating fluid and will be found of benefit.
Many have the habit of blinking the eyes but little, and this tends
toward setting up irritation in time.
HABITS TO FORM IN CONNECTION WITH BATHING
Do you realize that you breathe through your body as well as the
lungs? Oxygen is taken in through the pores as well as through the
mouth and nose; and impurities are thrown off in the same manner.
122
So you see bathing habits should be given consideration. Blocked pores
will reduce the amount of oxygen your body receives. It is a good
practice to bathe every day, and be sure to free the body from soapy
deposits which can block these little breathing organs, the pores. Too
frequent hot baths are weakening, so I suggest that you take two real
hot baths a week; and on the other days a tepid bath with a cold
shower following it, if you react to this well. Use hot water for clean­
liness and cold water for health and stimulation.
If one is not well equipped for bathing, you can use a sponge bath
successfully. Take a wash rag and after soaking it with cold water,
wring it out well and rub a certain part of the body briskly, such as an
arm, then take a coarse towel and briskly rub it dry. Go over the
entire body, piecemeal, in this way. You will find it very stimulating.
A good swim of course will take the place of one of your baths.
WHAT TO EAT
I shall not try to give you a diet list, but simply say, avoid over-eating.
More people suffer from over-eating than from anything else. Some
thin people seem to think that if they eta a lot they may get fat, but
flesh rarely is created in such a way. If the assimilative organs are not
working properly, you cannot get fat, no matter how much you eat.
If you give the body more than it can comfortably take care of, trouble
usually follows. To add flesh one must first get the digestive organs
into a healthy state. Eat a variety, including plenty of vegetables and
plain salads. Fruits will help to regulate the bowels.
HOW TO REDUCE PAINLESSLY AND SUCCESSFULLY
Unless your being overweight is due to some gland trouble, you can
reduce in quite a simple manner and without starving yourself to death.
The fattening foods are:—starches, sweets, dairy products, such as
milk, cream and butter, and fat meats. If you are just overweight
simply reduce these things I have named; if considerably overweight,
eliminate them for a time and eat what you wish of the remaining foods
not named, with the exception of pork. That is simple enough, isn’t it ?
And it will work. Try it out.
HOW TO ELIMINATE WORRY
Worry is sure to do much toward robbing you of the pleasing person­
ality that might be yours. How can one show real happiness in his or
her face, if that one has the habit of worry? It is just impossible.
Worry is one of the active principles of FEAR and represents LACK
OF CONFIDENCE.
123
\
\
Go over some of your past worries and learn how few of them have
actually materialized, and you will feel ashamed of yourself. Worry
soon becomes just a HABIT, and a very destructive, limiting and
miserable one at that. Worry is always attached to the future. You do
not worry over this moment. In order to worry you must draw on your
imagination, and in doing so, you draw on it in a pessimistic, destruc­
tive way; instead of in an optimistic, constructive manner. You form
the habit of picturing the worst, yet you usually have no GOOD
REASON for so doing. Let’s suppose this worry does materialize.
Don’t you see that worry gets you into a condition where you are not
nearly so well prepared to meet it? If it transpires you wish a clear,
calm, confident, fighting mind to meet it with, don’t you?
WORRY has caused more unhappiness, lost more jobs for people,
broken more engagements to marry, caused people to pass by more
golden opportunities, than any other one thing. And worry will bring
lines to your face, age you and create in you a disagreeable personality.
And worry is the most useless habit I know of. It CAN’T help you one
bit; but it DOES harm you materially.
Reach a state where you FEEL BIGGER THAN WORRY—-where
your confidence is built up to a point where you can say to yourself,
"Let it come if it must, I can meet it, and I refuse to be disturbed by
it.” Naturally you will do what you can to avoid that which you might
worry over, but you will not let your imagination run away with you
but will meet things in a calm, confident, courageous way.
You CAN destroy the habit of worry and through a calm indifference
and confidence, be well prepared to meet each problem as it arises.
EVERYONE has things they could worry over, just remember that,
and there is no reason for YOU to believe that YOUR problems are
greater than others, or that YOU do not have within you the power
to meet and rise above ANY obtsacle. Don't make your life a tragedy
through drawing on your imagination in this unreasonable, destruc­
tive way.
Are you going to admit that you are a poor, weak, cringing piece of
humanity? If you feel that way and continue to express such weak­
nesses in your daily life, your life represents just a form of "existence,”
and not a throbbing, animated, happy form of LIFE.
My friend, I hope my few words will convince you of the folly of
worry, and cause you to feel that through effort you can destroy this
habit and be FREE. You CAN if you just get the right slant and
understanding.
124
(
CHAPTER 17
How to Balance Up Will, Intellect and Emotion • How to
Get Out of That R ut You Are In
TT requires a proper mental balance to use your MIND efficiently and
-*
■express that REAL YOU in a harmonious, pleasing, magnetic
manner. This is true of mind just as much as it is in making some
wonderful cake that you have the recipe of. It requires JUST the right
amount of each ingredient, and then it must be baked under the right
temperature.
A great many people throw a little of this and a little of that into
their mental life, without any plan or intelligent consideration, and
then seem surprised that the results do not measure up to the usual
standards. There are definite LAWS governing the expression of mind
and your thoughts, just as much as there is in connection with that cake.
"Mind is the great lever of all things; human thought is the process
by which human ends are ultimately answered.’’ ,T
rr ,
1 — Webster.
'
The average individual’s mind is like a bee which extracts a little
sweet from this flower and that, eyer_on the wing, but never settles
down to a truly concrete study of any one thing. His thoughts flit from
this subject to that; he feels that it is quite impossible to settle down
to a long drawn out study of subjects which would materially aid him
in meeting life; and ONLY under the influence of strong excitement
does he really think at all. His mind sleeps overtime and he acts as
though he feared he might awaken it.
Recall the fact I have told you in another lesson, that YOUR BRAIN,
and brain capacity, is esesntially the same as the brain and capacity of
those who DO possess wonderful personalities and really go places in
this life. But those brain cells are like the muscles in your arms, for if
you fail to exercise them as you should, weakness naturally follows. If
you were to put your arm in a plaster cast for several weeks, in remov­
ing the cast you would find the arm materially weakened and you would
have to restore the lost strength through USE and EXERCISE. It is the
same with the cells in your brain. ONLY through exercise can you
expect to develop them to their normal thinking capacity. THINKING,
in some definitely well planned way, is the course to pursue in develop­
ing these cells. Thinking haphazardly will of course exercise them to a
degree, but it does not coordinate or synchronize action, and inefficient
and ineffective thinking is the result.
■s
125
\ ejUc»—
A-f'
t ..—-C-VY-C-P
Will, Intellect and:. IOTION should be properly balanced.
1
Your reasoning powers represent a sum total of the three elements
I have named above but they are never strong and effective unless con­
trolled by Will. You cannot effect the necessary concentration save as
Will bends the mental rays to a focus.
Theodore Rooseevlt, though greatly admired by me did not possess
the mental capacity we might find in many who are in less exalted posi­
tions. He was a great man because of two mental qualities which, when
sustained by even ordinary intellect, are sure to make one an engine of
power in any community. I allude to Emotion and Will. If I were
to illustrate the mental combination of this man by drawing circles
representing Will, Intellect and Emotion, I would have the circles
Will and Emotion larger than the circle I would mark Intellect.
This man had an Intellect of average calibre, while Emotion and
Will are dominating factors in his life. We accordingly speak of him
as a man who possessed a strong mind.
A man may have a strong Intellect, with little or much Emotion ; but
if he has a small power of Will he should be rated as mentally weak.
This represents the Psychasthenic type, which means mentally weak.
Where one’s Intelligence is normal, Emotion strong, and Will weak,
this represents the Neurotic and the Neurasthenic. And it depends
upon just how much out of balance these elements have become, as to
the degree of these weaknesses they express. Emotion, when held under
control by a strong Will, greatly contributes to mental strength; but,
when allowed to become dominant, leads to the conditions I have
stated above.
With Intelligence strong, accompaneid by a nervous temperament,
Emotion normal and Will deficient, we have a picture of a certain
type of genius, but a genius who never rises. Such people cannot get
on in the world and we find ourselves pitying them. When Emotion is
the ruling element, mental and physical manifestations soon indicate
an unsettling of stable foundations.
To be normal, Intellect should be normal, Emotion normal, and
Will^lus.
Does this give you a picture of a balanced and out of balance mind ?
Study yourself and if you do not fit in with the picture I have given
as NORMAL, begin to add or tear down so that you will be perfectly
balanced. But remember WILL is the most important element to con-
126
sider, for I am sure you are quite normal in¡Intellect or you would not
have shown sufficient interest to send for t^iis bourse.
The balancing of these three elements will do much toward develop­
ing in you a wonderful PERSONALITY and the power to Succeed
in life.
ARE YOU IN A RUT?
Do you realize that you ARE in a rut and that life is slipping by
without your extracting your share of its pleasures and riches? If you
DO, why not set about formulating a plan of action, and with as much
WILL as you can possibly express, gradually make the adjustments and
corrections within yourself that will change things? You CAN do it,
there is no question about that, the only question is, WILL YOU,—
in other words, are you going to exercise WILL so that it will become
sufficiently strong for you to make these changes possible ? Bear in mind
that your lacks and weaknesses are not something you were born with,
but something you have cultivated and created into HABIT. Get the
normal viewpoint of LIFE, and what is expected of you in meeting life
half-way; then, through EXERCISE, gradually develop these powers
which have kept you from expressing that real, wonderful YOU.
YOUR MIND IS LIKE A RADIO RECEIVER
We listen to the radio for the purpose of gaining knowledge and
being entertained. And we are able to express in life many of these
things we gather in that way.
Do you realize that your MIND is like the finest radio you could
picture being built? You have more control mechanisms than you find
on that radio set you have in your home. Your mind is constantly
giving you pictures as it is constantly working in one way or another.
Some of these pictures come through the force of habit and represent
things you do not wish to listen to or express. Well, why don’t you
tune these off and turn to thoughts that will be uplifting, pleasant and
profiable. You HAVE this power I assure you, if you will just exercise
WILL ahcTCONCENTRATIQN and thus be able to use that mental-
dial-control in an efficient way. You can tone down, or enlarge on the
volume of thoughts, as occasions call for. Through memory being
well-developed, you can turn to the "low wave” and get foreign recep­
tion, by going over some of the pleasant things in the past which are
foreign to your life of today. You can tune in happy, pleasantly emo­
tional, serious thoughts when you wish them; or you can permit that
"radio” to shout words of discouragement, depression, and crushing
127
thoughts. When YOU are in tune with that mental radio it will be
the means of giving you the right thoughts and emotions at the right
time, and make you a broadcasting station of a like form of enlivening,
happy, stimulating, friend-producing thoughts which you carry to those
you contact.
Your radio in your home calls for some adjustments at times to give
the best service, and so does that "mental radio” of yours. Give some
thought and consideration to YOUR "radio”, just as the radio repair
man you call in to fix your set, studies over the various parts and tries
to discover the cause of the trouble.
YOU have wonderful powers if you will but recognize them and
USE THEM INTELLIGENTLY. Balance up the mental elements and
you will move into a NEW WORLD, with new thoughts, new
emotions, new feelings, a NEW PERSONALITY.
Let me give you another picture which perhaps will help you to see
yourself in a clearer light.
Let us suppose you live in the country and your work takes you from
the farm house, across a field, to a point in a pasture where you attend
to stock several times a day. In walking back and forth between these
two points it is not long before you wear a definite PATH. Again let
us suppose that the stock is changed to another point in the pasture
which means that you must strike off at a different angle from the house
to reach it. You at first find walking a little more difficult than it was
when you had that nice smooth path to follow, for you have tall grass
and weeds to plow your way through. But little by little you crush the
tall grass and weeds under your feet, they die, and it is not long before
you have formed a new path.
Picture your mind as a mental field. Certain thoughts that you
indulge in frequently soon form a path, or dig ruts or grooves across
that mental field. Thus, THESE thoughts become a line of least resist­
ance, and through its being easier to think in that way, you continue
to do so. But I hope you have now become conscious of the fact that
many of these thoughts, with their grooves, are weakening, destructive,
harmful ones, which cause you to express a personality you yourself
know to be unpleasant. Well, what are you to do? You will have
to form a new path or groove, make new ruts for these NEW
THOUGHTS to follow. You will find the "going” somewhat difficult
for a time, but if you will bring WILL to bear on the situation you will
in time create into a form of HABIT these thoughts you are fostering.
128
IGNORE the old thoughts just as much as you can, and CATER to
the new. Like plants, they will die if you fail to cultivate them and
give them attention. And in attempting to make such changes as I
have suggesed, DON'T dwell on the fact that it is going to be HARD;
that it will represent considerable time to accomplish; but dwell on
WHAT THIS CHANGE IS GOING TO MEAN IN YOUR LIFE.
Hold happy thoughts toward it, have your goal alluring, and play the
game of life to WIN.
Do you think adjusting your life and developing a different person­
ality is more difficult than it was for Joan Crawford to start her life
by waiting on table in college in order to help pay her tuition; when
she was so poor that she had to borrow small change from time to time
to keep her going? She couldn’t go to parties, for she had nothing to
wear that was suitable. But she had ideals in connection with life,
ambition, and best of all, DETERMINATION. We all know what
SHE accomplished through pluck and perseverance and study.
Or do you think it would be harder for YOU than it was for Helen
Jepson whom they called "Fatty,” and who was so poor she could not
afford music lessons, to accomplish what she has? Another case of
starting at the bottom and climbing to the top, just THROUGH
FORCE OF WILL. Do you know that in 1930, after a tremendous
struggle she had reached a point where a radio audition was given to
her, and after tests by several was turned down flat, and that later she
was acclaimed the find of the year and voted the best radio personality
of the year?
Or do you think your struggle would be anything like as hard as
Lawrence Tibbett’s was, who also started heading for his goal when
frightfully poor, did little odd jobs to make a few cents when hard
pressed, but through determination has reached a point where they
say he commands $300.00 a minute for singing?
Or do you think your task even a fractional part as hard as it was
for Helen Keller, whom we all love and admire, to do almost the
impossible as she has done?
No, my friend, YOUR task isn’t so terribly hard, but through the
eyes you have been viewing it, it has just SEEMED mighty hard.
Wouldn’t you feel a little ashamed of yourself if YOU couldn’t
accomplish a rather simple task, as compared with some of these things
I have related, and hundreds of others that I could relate? You have
just lacked COMBATIVENESS and WILL. You CAN do these things
and I am going to have faith that you WILL.
129
You ask, AM I TOO OLD TO ACCOMPLISH WHAT YOU
SUGGEST?
TOO OLD ? Has anyone reached an age where he is too old to be
kind and considerate, to be pleasant, to praise, to make another feel
happy and big in his presence?
But you say, "You can’t teach an old dog new tricks.”
Do these things I have mentioned represent anything YOU DO
NOT WISH? Well, if you WISH to do them, if you WANT to
be well thought of in your old age and have hosts of friends to bring
cheer to your remaining years, why don’t you do them? Habit isn’t
stronger than a burning desire within you, you have just pictured it
as hard, and have let this false picture stop you. It will actually be
EASY if you just get hold of the right veiwpoint. Things are easy or
hard, according to the way we view them.
Of course you are not too old to change, if you REALLY and
TRULY wish to.
A woman along in years called at my office one day and was
announced. When she walked into my office her face was all smiles,
and she said,—"Doctor, you do not know me, but I just had to tell
my good news to someone, and as I have read many of your articles
and have admired you, I felt it would make me very happy, and per­
haps you too, if I could just pour out some of this emotional joy wtihin
me into your ears. She then told me she was 65 years old and that this
was the happiest day of her life. She went on to further state that all
her life she had so wished to be a high school graduate. This desire
burned and burned within her until, at the age of fifty it culminated
into DETERMINATION and she began attending Evening School
and taking up high school subjects. Fifteen years of effort had that
morning been crowned with success by her receiving a high school
diploma.
t wonder if you are old enough to know much about the life of
Lionel Barrymore? Of course you know of his success today, for you
probably frequently see him in the movies you attend, and probably
love him. But are you aware that at the age of 26 he was proclaimed
a great actor, A STAR, and that at the age of 53 he was a sort of
nobody” as far as the stage was concerned? And do you know that
he then through fighting again came back and is today one of our
headliners in the movies?
130
His failure was not due to lack of ambition, for one cannot say
of him that he refused to fight for the recognition he desired. But
things just broke against him. He kept fighting on, believing in himself
and the future he longed for, and at last won.
My friend, don't try to tell me that YOU havn’t a chance to make
yourself over into a wonderful personality, for your denial will fall on
deaf ears. Stiffen up that backbone of yours, assume a "do or die”
attitude, and the obstacles within yourself will be easily surmounted.
And don’t forget that the change is just a matter of changing your­
self,—your veiwpoint, your desires, your determination, your WILL to
achieve what you have in mind. And through USING your powers,
with a burning desire to urge you on, they will gradually be added to
as far as strength is concerned and the fight will grow easier and easier,
and your goal nearer and nearer.
Here’s my hand, stretched over the miles which separate us, and in
that handclasp you will find encouragement and added power. Feel that
I AM BACK OF YOU.
C H A P T E R 1 8
How to llse Your Reasoning Powers • How Personality and
Psychology Enter Into All Phases of Life
“ClN CE IT IS REASON WHICH SHAPES AND REGULATES
^ ALL OTHER THINGS, IT OUGHT NOT ITSELF TO BE
LEFT IN DISORDER.”
— Epictetus.
REASONING.
If we are to judge people in the way the bible states we will, "By
their fruits ye shall know them,” we would just have to reach the con­
clusion that most people fail to use the power of reason.
Reasoning, is thinking with a purpose. Listen to the average conver­
sation ; witness the foolish acts that we see people perform almost daily,
and we will find that the average individual does very little reasoning.
Yet REASON is our best — our only guide.
Check up on yourself and see how many things you do in the space
of an hour that reason fails to direct. I think the trouble lies in the
fact that most people forget they have reasoning power, and it is a
weakened state through NON-USE. I do hope that by bringing this
most important mental power to your conscious attention that YOU
will give reason the consideration it calls for and USE it in a nearer
normal way.
Reasoning is brought about through a process of comparisons, and is
carried on by the two methods of Induction and Deduction.
INDUCTION. Suppose you wish to make some plans regarding an
evening at home for which you have arranged, where a number of
your friends and acquaintances will be present. You go over your list
of guests carefully, giving consideration to what the various ones have
seemed to enjoy when you have been in their presence, and you see if
you cannot create some form of entertainment which ALL will enjoy.
You do not give consideration to what YOU will enjoy in contemplating
your plans, but what the majority of those who will be present will
enjoy, by putting together a number of experiences you have had while
with these various people. That would be a form of Induction.
But on the other hand, if you were to prepare a party for a group of
guests whom you knew nothing about and had no former experience
while in their company to guide you, you would say, "Well now, most
1 3 2
people seem to like this, that or the other thing,” turning over in your
mind the various things you might offer, and reaching a conclusion
that they will probably like certain definite things you have in mind,
BECAUSE you believe they will probably respond to certain things
which are generally accepted in a happy manner.
You see in the one case you would have something in connection
with your past experience with the people you were inviting to help
your plans; but in the second case you would have only general informa­
tion to direct your efforts, and that would be called Deduction.
These two examples will give you the tools which each individual
has for discovering truth and for directing wisely his course of action.
When we speak of THINKING, these are the processes we mean. It is
the grades of development in them that divide you from the animal,
and that divide those who have attained greater heights, from you.
Impression, memory, reasoning; these are the mental tools which
build success.
"Sow an act and reap a habit; sow a habit and you reap a character;
sow a character and you reap a destiny.”
Boardman.
REASON is the ONLY guide you have in selecting the things you
wish to accept, and those which you should reject. Your mind is so
constituted that it gives faith to every entering idea or emotion, unless
some contrary idea or emotion is present to question it and crowd it out.
This fact is responsible for our accepting depressing things more readily
than we do encouraging ones; for accepting FEAR more quickly than
we do FAITH. And it is right here that reason could be available to
ACT on these various thoughts and emotions which we contact, and
separate them in ways which will prove to be for our best good. And
this is why one who has built up the habit of reasoning, lets a great
many unwholesome thoughts and emotions enter.
In combating these unwholesome thoughts and emotions use as a
basis the following quotation from William James: "Anything that a
man can avoid under the notion that it is bad, he may also avoid under
the notion that something else is good. He who habitually acts under
the negative notion of the bad, is called a slave by Spinoza. To him who
acts habitually under the notion of the good, he gives the name of
freeman.”
Suppose Bernarr McFadden in his early life had failed to use his
REASON? In his case it would have meant the difference between
health and ill-health; recognition and inconsequence; riches and poverty.
153
McFadden was born of a tubercular mother and a father who drank
so excessively that he died in delirum tremens. But instead of this
awakening feelings of discouragement and despair he fought the ten­
dencies he felt he might have inherited and became a man well-known
for his unusual physical strength and his financial success. His publica­
tions, which today are read by some 15,000,000 people, have undoubt­
edly changed the course of thousands of lives. He was a pioneer in his
field and laughed at the ridicule heaped upon him. His reason told him
he was right, and he stood by his convictions.
My friend, USE YOUR REASON to not alone procure for you
PERSONALITY, but many more of the good things of life. Learn,
through a process of reasoning to TRUST YOURSELF, and at all times
express only the BEST IN SELF.
FATIGUE.
Those who seem to become unusually tired following an average
day’s work, do so, not because of the physical or mental effort they have
put forth in connection with their work, but because of their failure to
love their work, forget themselves and be in a happy state of mind.
Such tiredness is more a nerve than a muscle tiredness. Let something
stimulating, of an unusual nature, come into their lives at the end of
that day and you will find them using far more muscular effort than
usual without seeming tiredness. This stimulus may be in the form of a
good show which they are suddenly invited to attend as the guest of a
friend; a part that they picture as most desirable; or it may be a fire
in the neighborhood which they stand on their feet and watch for
perhaps hours.
Let us suppose that you have been given an unpleasant errand which
will necessitate your walking a considerable distance to perform. You
start on your journey, with the unpleasant thoughts in mind and a
picture of the perhaps embarrassing situation you will face at the end
of the walk, and the journey seems endless and the feet begin to lag
long before the journey is completed. But what a difference if you were
to take that walk in the company of someone you loved, and only
pleasant thoughts to think. So you see the character of your thoughts
can actually bring exhaustion or just the pleasant tiredness that enjoyable
effort may bring.
Those who_permit their uncontrolled and misdirected thoughts to
completely tire them out at the end of their dayIs work are sure, jit the
end of that day, to express an unhappy, unwholesome, negative_per-
sonajity.
1J4
HOW PERSONALITY AND PSYCHOLOGY ENTER INTO
ALL PHASES OF LIFE
From the time you arise in the morning, until you go to bed at night,
you should strive to show positiveness and and personality.
Do you get up in the morning with the thought, "Oh, another day,
see all the things I have to do before this day is over?” If you do, you
are starting off with an adverse suggestion which may have a detri­
mental effect on that whole day. Here is where you can use some
Psychology. If you BELIEVE that suggestions carry weight, why not
start the day with a song, whistling, or forcing the thought, "This is
another day of accomplishment and I am going to love people and the
things that I do?” Why not jump out of bed, throw some good cold
water on you, use a coarse towel briskly, and get under way before you
have time to indulge extensively in these depressing thoughts?
And when you contact people, salute them with a cheery, "Good
morning.” And if they ask how you feel, in a cheery and positive tone
of voice say, "Just fine,” whether you feel so or not. You see that will
materially help you in the eyes of the world; will actually help YOU
through the suggestions it will carry to your mind; will assist you in
your social or business life in many, many ways; and will be constantly
forming in you a habit which will be most helpful in your future life.
People don’t wish to hear about your troubles, especially early in the
morning, and what they are interested in is getting off on the right foot
themselves for the day which is ahead of them. They may feel miserable,
and your cheerfulness, even though it is forced, will be of real service
to them — and to you as well. Isn’t that just a lot more profitable than
going about with a long face and being disliked by people in general?
You do not wish to be unhappy; to go about with a long face; to feel
discouraged and depressed; to be a cloud in the lives of others, SO
WHY EXPRESS IT? What you express in your thoughts and daily life
are having a material effect on YOU at all times.
So isn’t it just plain common-sense to USE this Psychology when it
is going to be of real benefit to YOU in the long run? It WILL work
if you will give it a chance.
Do you recall that Theodore Roosevelt when lecturing at Milwaukee,
Wis., was shot? And do you recall that he continued his talk without
calling attention to it, and did not until later receive even "first aid”
treatment? Well now, if he could ignore such a real thing as a bullet
135
I
wound, with its pain, don’t you think that you should be able to ignore
unpleasant, depressing THOUGHTS that creep into your mind? Of
course you can.
A SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS CAREER NOT DEPENDENT
ON A HIGHER FORM OF EDUCATION
I have already related several incidents in this Course where people
have started from the bottom and have made good. I may relate some
more. But I wish to state that there is no reason for you to feel that
you cannot attain business greatness, because you have not had an oppor­
tunity to carry on your school work as far as you would like to. I find
this is very frequently the basis for many forms of self consciousness
which I find expressed in people. They feel inferior, just because they
have not had the same opportunity for a higher education that others
have had.
You should spend this time you are putting into discouraging thinking,
into ADDING TO YOUR INFORMATION. A self educated person
is frequently far more interesting to listen to than a college graduate;
for the knocks they have received during their lives; the sharp corners
they have been cut by; the fight they have had to wage; have all given
them a positiveness and humanness we fail to find in those who are
cultured through schooling and have had little to meet in life. Our
World Wars did much toward breaking down class lines. Our rich
boys who reached the front found in their contacts men of lowly birth
who displayed far more real courage, and had a bigger heart, than those
they had associated with previously in their own higher class of society.
Don’t be ashamed of the fact that you have not had the educational
advantages some others have, and don’t be ashamed of the fact that
YOU come from poor parentage. Your credit will be recognized far
more, and your chance in life, after once getting a start, will perhaps
mean greater heights of achievement, than the boy or girl who has all
the advantages which money can offer. Don’t let these limiting thoughts
keep YOU from expressing the wonderful personality which is within
you just waiting for a chance to get into action. Stop barring its way
with your own wrong thinking.
HOW TO DEAL WITH A BUSINESS PROSPECT
I cannot go deeply into this big subject, but shall merely outline a
few cardinal points which may be of service to you in planning your
business career, and in meeting people in a business way
136
FIRST and foremost, you must sell yourself to your self and believe
fully in that person, YOU. You must also be sold on the article or
business venture you represent.
In trying to make contacts you should be fair and above board. Trick
salesmanship, or tricks used in procuring interviews will not work out
well in the long run. When my secretary comes into my private office
and tells me that there is a man outside who states that I have been
selected, due to my influence and as a representative citizen, to have
something bestowed upon me FREE OF CHARGE, I take it as an afiront
to my intelligence, and AT ONCE there is awakened a feeling of
antagonism. Therefore, this man has built up in me a resistance which
he is not likely to overcome. I am told by such men that were they not
to use such tactics they would find it extremely difficult to gain an inter­
view. This may be true, but I still contend they could work out some
more tactful approach.
One should contact a business prospect with the thought that he has
something which will be of real service to that man. If he holds ONLY
the thought of selfish gain, he will never reach the heights and be happy,
or at least rarely so. You should be primarily interested in how you
can serve this prospect, you should be interested in HIM rather than
yourself, if you are to have a clientele who look upon you as a friend,
and who will turn to YOU when in need of something which you sell.
Contacts should be converted into FRIENDS. This may not be true
in connection with some small article which is peddled from door to
door, for there I suppose a certain amount of "trick salesmanship” and
"High Pressure” methods, must be employed. But I am writing more
in connection with the higher type of salesman or business man.
TACT, above all things, should be used. If you find you have called
at an inconvenient time, in place of irritating that prospect through
holding him there when he may have an appointment, or of keeping
him away from work which calls for his immediate attention, you should
make him happy by stating that you are sorry that the moment seems an
inconvenient one, and that you will be glad to call again. He will then
possibly make a definite appointment with you.
In business dealings NEVER knock your competitor for this will
break down faith in you. Character, personality and good business
dealings do not admit of such practices. You may point out where your
proposition or article differs from others, that possibly your product is
in some way a better article, due to workmanship, better service rendered,
137
the guarantee back of it due to the responsibility of the firm you repre­
sent, etc., etc., but don’t run down the other person’s product, or firm.
Be polite, considerate, interested in your prospect’s problems, and in
every way possible show him that you and your firm stand for SERVICE
and that you consider THAT above everything else. Don’t argue with
prospects, but smooth difficulties over in a diplomatic way.
Show very real optimism in contacting people, meet each one with a
smile, and never try to arouse sympathy for you in order to make a sale.
Your hard luck will not interest them, and the results will be that they
will never wish to see you again. If possible, leave a prospect in a
spirit of good humor so that he will feel friendly toward you and will
wish to see you again. If time is not pressing, you may find his hobby
and comment on it, which is always interesting to the other fellow.
Strive to make life-long friends of your contacts and you will then,
through an accummulative procedure, be building BIG BUSINESS
for the future.
1 3 8
CHAPTER 19
How to Obtain A Postion • The Power of Money
npHERE must first be a strong DESIRE to secure a position, and not
a half-way attempt or lukewarm thoughts toward it. Most of those
I have contacted who have not had work for months or perhaps years,
I find are negative, half-hearted people lacking enthusiasm, strong
desire, ambition, and perseverance. Many of them have read the "Want
Advertisements” found in their daily paper; have perhaps selected a
few that they feel MIGHT mean a position, and have then leisurely
taken their time in applying, only to find that the position has been
filled.
There is another type who refuses to consider the thought of "any
port in a storm,” and will only take a certain kind of position which fits
in with their thoughts regarding salaries and working conditions. They
say, "I am not going to take a step backward, if I cannot secure the type
of work I am accustomed to do, I will do nothing.” And most of them
do nothing. Such people may be offered a position on a commission
basis, a basis which a REAL salesman usually prefers to a salary, but
they will not accept it for they refuse to gamble in connection with the
matter of income. They wish to receive a salary, whether they earn that
salary for the boss or not. They want the boss to do all the gambling.
Then there are those who are quite self conscious and have not been
able to sell themselves on the fact that someone really wishes them and
that they CAN give valuable service. They fear if they do happen to
secure a position that they may be discharged, and that this would be
most embarrassing. If they make application for a position their gen­
eral presentation of self is a negative, "I think I can do it,” attitude.
They show no real faith in themselves, so why should the employer
have any faith in them. Many of these people would make valuable
employees if they could just show more confidence and self reliance.
Then there is the shiftless, lazy group who just make a pretense of
wishing to work, occasionally go out and roam around for awhile,
returning with the "bad news” that they have not been able to secure
anything. They really DON’T WANT TO WORK, and often WILL
NOT, if there is someone who will furnish them board and room.
Some of these people are pretty good talkers and often awaken sympathy
in the minds of others. During good times, as well as bad, we find
many of these objects of charity.
139
There are so many half-hearted, self conscious, chronically lazy
people, that if YOU will just show the right spirit toward work, you
will surely procure it. Be an early worm, the first one to apply for a
position if possible; KNOW that you have something real to offer an
employer; convince him of this fact through the positive, confident
attitude you show; gamble with your employer if necessary to prove to
him that you are valuable; seek work diligently day after day, and
strive to get in contact with some few who might help you by speaking
a good word for you. BE SOLD ON YOURSELF.
Before some big event, like a world series baseball game, or some­
thing of a similar nature where tickets are hard to procure, we find
people camping out over night so as to secure a position in the line
toward the front when the box office opens. Before the English Coro­
nation we read of people holding positions in the line of parade for
two or three days before it took place, withstanding rain and chill and
hardship, so as to be SURE to witness the event. Do you think if you
showed such an attitude toward WORK that it would be hard to secure ?
Oh, no. It is this spirit I have described which will prove my theory
that life IS to a great extent what WE MAKE IT. Show the right spirit
toward work and yourself and YOU WILL SECURE EMPLOYMENT.
SUCCESS NEED NOT MEAN RICHES
It is interest in your work, rather than in the success which may
follow, that usually spells success. The one who watches the clock is
not the one who makes good. Those truly interested in their work
forget all about the clock and do not begrudge a few minutes or even
hours of overtime, if they feel right toward what they are doing. One
who fears he will give his employer a little more time than his employer
is paying for, will find that he is only cheating himself.
In whatever work you happen to be engaged, try to have the best
interest of the work at heart and do whatever it seems to conscientiously
call for. Make a real study of the business you are engaged in, not just
the particular form of work that you happen to be doing, but learn
about every phase of that work if you find it possible. Your foreman
or boss knows more about what YOU know and do than you imagine,
and when some vacancy occurs and the "boss” turns over in his mind
who shall fill the position, he naturally is going to try to select that
one whom he feels is best qualified. You may understand the work that
YOU DO very well, but if that is ALL you know, your chances for
advancement are not very great. He wishes to put one into a higher
140
position, and have as little friction and delay in connection with the
work as possible. I often have people say to me, "I can’t understand
why I was not promoted to fill a certain vacancy, and another who had
not served the company as long, and who had worked no harder, was
promoted right over my head!” Unless that one happened to have
some "pull”, which does not happen as frequently as some people
believe, the one who was promoted "over your head,” showed some­
thing in him or her which seemed to make his or her qualifications
appear better to that boss. You perhaps had worked just as hard, but
this other person may have gained a better understanding of the busi­
ness, may have shown more initiative, may have impresesd the "boss”
as possessing a bigger fighting spirit than you, or may have shown more
indications of seeking responsibility than you. There was SOME reason
for your being left out, and that reason, ten to one, was not because the
boss does not like YOU. Another reason might be, if this higher posi­
tion meant being over others, that the "boss” recognized his or her
ability to "rule wisely” as better developed than yours.
All of which again leads me to make the statement—"Take a very
real interest in the business in general, learn all you can about it, be
pleasant, yet positive, forget the clock and just the salary you are to
receive at the end of your week or month, and I am sure you will do
far better.”
Some people have a strong love for money, which is quite all right
for that particular type. But you will find -that such people are usually
hard workers and realize that only through giving SERVICE and
working HARD, can they attain that end. If one is money-conscious,
and willing to pay the price in effort to procure that money, they are
quite likely to make good. But money does not mean success to all
people. Many consider success merely the achievement of certain defi­
nite things they have in mind which they have a deep interest in. The
one who selects teaching as a profession knows he can never be rich,
but he loves that work and requires only sufficient money to support
himself, and perhaps a family, to make him happy. SUCCESS means
achievement, and what one is striving to achieve is just a personal
picture representing HIS particular love and desire.
There must be people to do the various forms of work required, so
it is a mighty good thing that everyone is not money conscious. But
MONEY IS POWER, and keeps away just a lot of the worries which
many of those without it, experience. I have previously stated that I
do not believe that MONEY ALONE brings happiness, but it provides
141
for many things, that make it most valuable in bringing about a sense
of security and materially ADDS TO HAPPINESS during the times
that unlooked for trials present themselves. So I strongly advocate your
striving to prepare for that rainy day, even though you may not be
"money conscious.” To be truly money-conscious requires a selfishness
and hard heartedness that most sensitive people cannot acquire.
WORK is the real cause of SUCCESS, no matter what success may
mean to you. Select work because you LOVE TO DO IT and because
you believe it will eventually lead to the SUCCESS, you, as an indi­
vidual, may have in mind.
All through these lessons I have tried to indicate to you that WORK
is what materializes DESIRE.
If you wish to materially add to your PERSONALITY; if you wish
to become a successful salesman, businessman, teacher, scientist, pro­
fessional person, or whatever your desires may be, WORK is the only
thing that will make these possible. Work is necessary to ALL
ACHIEVEMENT. I wish to make sure you understand this fact. Many
perhaps picture the Hollywood stars as living a carefree, easy life. Far
from it. THEY WORK HARD FOR YEARS BEFORE THEY CAN
POSSIBLY BE STARS. They work hard to KEEP FIT, and in con­
nection with the study of their professional work as well. It is far from
being an easy life.
Now in connection with these lessons I can only tell you WHAT
TO DO, WHAT ATTITUDE TO ASSUME TOWARD THINGS,
HOW TO MAKE A BETTER PERSONALITY AND ACHIEVE­
MENT POPSSIBLE, but YOU will have to do the work. Unless you
do your part in connection with this Course it will not prove of real
value. Therefore, your future is not one of chance, but one of order
and law. I have tried to interpret some of these laws to you, and if
faithfully followed, THEY WILL produce results. You will find the
law of "cause and effect,” expressed all through life. If you furnish
the CAUSE for personality and success, certain definite EFFECTS will
follow. That law is as absolute as the law which governs the rising of
the sun each morning and its setting at night. You can make yourself
a victim of these laws by neglecting them, or you can make yourself
master by observing them. If you work IN THE RIGHT WAY, no
other power can thwart you.
I have already mentioned the necessity of PERSEVERANCE, but I
wish to again refer to it, as it is one of the most important keys to
success. In order to continue persevering, it is necessary to fight away
142
from discouragement. Discouragement causes more failures than any­
thing else. When you become discouraged the wheels of success become
motionless. When inclined to feel discouraged recall that old saying,
"It is always darkest just before dawn,” and FIGHT ON. Many have
stopped through discouragement JUST before success was assured.
And again recall to your mind the importance of FRIENDS, for
without them you will not travel very high or far; nor will you realize
true happiness. PERSONALITY spells many friends, friends who can
at moments be of great service to you. So fight for a materialization of
a PLEASING PERSONALITY, through correctly applying the laws
governing right thinking and action, and friends and success will be
assured. Do not base friendships on just a commercial value, for such
an attitude will mean making friendships hard work and the friend­
ships will bring very little pleasure and will probably not be lasting.
Here is a basic fact of psychology, and of human nature, the com­
prehension of which is of the utmost moment. The worth of life is
not in the number and bulk of it$ possessions, but in the number and
pleasantness of the experiences made conscious to our minds. One man
may have a richer life experience out of a tent on a vacant lot than
another has out of a hundred thousand dollar mansion in the midst
of a magnificent estate.
With all this so true, what a possibility of wealth there is in friend­
ship! If the worth of life is made up of our thoughts and feelings,
certainly the group that centers about our friends constitutes a gilt-
edge series of stocks and bonds.
Make friends of those you meet socially, with your business associates
or customers, with your brother and sister sales-people, even with your
rivals. Go about everywhere making friends. This is not a minor
issue, but is one of the most urgent duties you have if you wish to be
happy and successful. And again let me emphasize the fact that, if you
wish to have friends, be one. And don’t wait for the time to come
when you need friends to make them. Make them NOW and let them
use YOU first if necessary.
Be concerned for other people and their welfare. Put their interests
sometimes ahead of your own. Make a practice of never trampling on
the rights of others; nor should you permit them to belittle you or
trample your rights into the soil.
"A TRUE FRIEND IS ONE WHO MAKES ME DO WHAT
I CAN.” — Emerson.
143
From the standpoint of money and success, PERSONALITY is
probably the cheapest thing within our reach; yet the most beneficial
asset we can have in this life. PERSONALITY cannot be purchased
but it can be had without money or without price as far as dollars and
cents goes, and requires ONLY a little thought and practice on your
part to procure. And you do not even have to devote a great deal of
time in order to materialize it, for you can do much of your practicing
in your everyday life. Just give your daily life and its expressions some
consideration and study for a time, strive to improve your personality
each day through being more considerate of others, and you will before
very long find yourself reaping a very rich reward.
The farmer plants wheat in his field in the spring and reaps wheat in
the fall. What YOU plant in the way of thought and action you will
reap in kind. You cannot expect to show anger, jealousy, hatred, lack
of consideration for your fellowmen, envy, thoughtlessness, and perhaps
even cruelty, and reap PERSONALITY, FRIENDS, HAPPINESS and
SUCCESS in return. Get this law of sowing and reaping well fixed in
your mind. You perhaps will tell me of certain instances where people
have not received their just deserts. There are of course exceptions to
all rules, but in general you will find this law working out in the way
I have described.
Don’t let the exceptions to this rule disturb or depress you. You
undoubtedly will have some unpleasant experiences; will have some
disappointments; will give and not receive; will be hurt occasionally by
those you have served; will have many very real obstacles to surmount
in spite of your trying hard. But don’t view the results of the moment,
but remember you are working toward a certain future goal and HAVE
FAITH that through continuing to follow out the definite, known laws
of life, that you will come out on top. Let us suppose that in 20%
of your experiences that this law seems to fail. That leaves a good
percentage in your favor, doesn’t it? Even if 30 or 40% went against
you, you would still be ahead. SO DON’T GET DISCOURAGED.
If you played a game, or bet on the "horses” where there was a certain
percentage against your winning, which the game keeper or race track
association took their end of, in time, if you continued to play, this
ten percent would break you. Now reason out this law underlying per­
sonality and success in a like manner. By following out these laws you
constantly have a good percentage in your favor; and by continuing to
practice it, those who have opposed you and failed to comply with law
will lose, and you are SURE TO WIN.
144
Again, there is a law of average at work. Men who employ can­
vassers and have been in a certain work for a number of years are able
to definitely state how many sales should be made to a certain number
of calls. Let us say that in selling rather an expensive set of books that
one makes just one sale in ten calls, or ten sales in one hundred. The
canvasser may call on nine people and not sell, and possibly twenty
people and not make a sale; but if that salesman is average, and con­
tinues to work, this law of average will work out in a hundred or a
thousand calls. On the other hand, he might make his initial sale to
the first person he called on, which would pep him up and cause him
to feel that he was going to smash this law of average to pieces. If we
understand these things we avoid disappointment, but if we do not, we
are soon put out of the running through our own wrong attitude toward
our seeming lack of success. There is constantly a percentage in YOUR
favor, remember that, so DON’T let discouragement or lack of under­
standing beat you.
145
CHAPTER 20
Your Goal in Sight • Your Ideal Self Made Real!
T F you have carefully studied these lessons, and put the principles
therein taught into practice to the best of your ability, I feel SURE
you can by now say that you_HAVE improved_considerably. This may
not be true if you have shown lack of faith and performed your various
forms of practice in quite a_mechanical manner. REAL interest, con­
scientious effort, faithful practice are of course called for in_making
. ^yfgood in any given line of work. This is no exception to the rule.
Just as there are "throw-backs” in thejbirth of animals; just so do
I findjLvery small percentage who possess such a strong habit state of
weakness established within them, that life just CAN’T take on its real
■¿^meaning in their eyes. For these I feel deeply sorrowful, for they
MIGHT just as well be representative citizens in their expressions, if
they could but get rid of the "I CAN’T,” and swing into action. Lack
fiof faithqs back ofjthis small_group.
Those who have earnestly tried are, I am sure, getting glimpses of
that better state they have dreamed about. And feel quite sure, that,
if you can go a part of the way, you CAN go the rest of the way. Keep
up the enthusiasm and hard work, show strong determination, add to
your faith almost daily, and that big reward will be yours. As I am
writing this a legless man is attempting to swim down the Hudson for
a distance of some 150 miles to New York. That would seem like an
impossible task for our best swimmers who have both legs to help them
along. Just think of attempting to stay in the water constantly for
about ten days. You wouldn’t consider such a stunt I am sure if you
were a mighty fine swimmer. This legless swimmer’s attempt is being
made for the purpose of publicity, and through that publicity he hopes
to make a better living for himself. Such unusual things are not re­
quired in your case for you to realize your dreams, but. just faithful
practice on viewing yourself and life in the RIGHT WAY, and putting
¡ L-this new viewpoint into ACTION. And to some, even this compara­
tively easy task will seem hard. When you are inclined to feel a little
discouraged think of what that swimmer is fighting for and putting
forth strong effort to realize. Look about you at some of the handi­
capped people you meet in your daily life and realize how much more
difficult their problems of life are than YOURS. Then begin to., smile
and strive to forget YOUR troubles and FIGHT for what is rightfully
YOURS. Development is naturally of rather..slow growth, so be will-
146
ing to pay the price in effort to reach your goal and crystallize your
desires into realities.
^^UNDERSTANDING, plus a well developed FAITH and WILL, is
sure to spell success for you. The understanding is contained in these
lessons if you will dig it out through earnest and conscientious study.
The faith and will power of course must be developed by YOU,
through daily using what jpower you can command^
YOUR IDEAL SELF MADE REAL
If your ideals are fostered by REASON, you may be SURE that
EFFQRT and perseverance will make it possible for you to change these
dreamed about "ideals” into realities.
Henry Ford started out in life with only a natural mechanical ability,
but he had "dreams” which he was determined to realize. He believed
that an inexpensive car would be of great service to man and that it
was an "untapped” field which represented great possibilities. After
a tremendous struggle he materialized his dreams and capitalized on
his idea.
Mary Pickford had dreams, dreams which to her were so alluring
that she never hesitated to pay the price in effort to realize them. And
not alone did she become the greatest child actress of her day, but in
spite of all her struggles which might rather embitter some, she devel­
oped such a lovely personality that she was given the title of "America’s
Sweetheart.” She started in life from the bottom, and through her
going on-the stage at such an early age, must have received most of
her education through a process of self training.
And, if your girl happens to turn you down, don’t let that depress
you and keep you from going on and winning, for the first girl John D.
Rockefeller asked turned him down too. And this same thing applies
to the disappointments girls may experience in the same way.
.^.JvCharles Dickens went to school but four years, but became the great­
est writer of his century.
, O. O. McIntyre has always found it difficult tojmeet people in public.
so he turned his time and attention ^ writing, which did not require
p-diim to face the public. And he became not alone_one of lhgjecog-
nized writers- of his day, but derived an enormous income from it
as well.
So you see, if you are thwarted at one point, instead of becoming
discouraged and feeling that all your castle walls have tumbled, calmly
147
\
\ \
and studiously find out how you can surmount that obstacle hv rhanu-
ing your course somewhat. You can attack these problems of life from
many angles, so be brave and you will always find SOME WAY OUT.
George Gershwin might have put his thought and effort into just
writing musical compositions of the day, but he too had ideas and ideals
and created a new type of mupic that in a comparatively few years made
him famous. He gave to music a new personality.
h it is said that Einstein was once the school dunce, but embarrassment,
obstacles to surmount, a country which recently made it quite impossible
for him to remain inthe Fatherland, failed to crush that desire of
servicewhich was so strong within him. Money means little to this
man, he is_working more to serve his fellowmen than for money.
See what Andrew Carnegie and Andrew Mellon did during their
lives. From poverty to riches, and with it not just a selfish idea of
gaining gold which they might count ju> the miser does, but with the
(
unselfish thought of helping their fellowmen. Both gave most ofthe
many millions they made to public libraries, churches, and to various
forta&af charity. They had ideals and made them real. SO CAN YOU 1
j IF YOU GET HOLD OF THE SPIRIT OF WHAT LIFE MEANS. T
I and YOUR part that.you can play in life.
When obstacles arise, and disappointments creep into my life, as
they do at times in the lives of all people, I at once turn my atttention
away from myself through going over a number of fine letters I have
received from those I have helped, and this attaches itself to the thought
that I, like the poem, have "lived in a house by the side of the road
and been a friend to man,” and all my troubles quickly vanish as far
as any mental lowering of my spirits is concerned.
DON’T lose faith in yourself, just KN05Z. that YOU TOO can
express a fine personality and have a sufficient supply of the good things
of life to make you perfectly happy and to supply your needs abun­
dantly HAVE FAITH.
HOW TO AVOID BEING A MISFIT IN LIFE
You CAN’T be truly happy and express_ personality without real
interest,in life and having found yourself. Unless you are engaged in
some occupation injife, whether of a social, business or domestic nature;
that you love to do, you may be quite sure you are not properly adjusted
to Jjle, and without a right adjustment you will feel that you are a
misfit. In my discussion of "What work to take up in life,” I have
!• ' V
14«
/
shown you how to consider things that you contemplate doing. There
are many who are as the old saying goes, "Square pegs striving to fit
themselves into round holes.” This will not be true in your case if
you will give yourself and your future the careful consideration I sug­
gested in Lesson XIV. In fact, all these lessons, when well understood,
will make it possible for you to have sufficient konwledge to change
p-this misfit state. These lessons teach you of what is the most important
thing in your life — the powers WITHIN YOU, and how you may
^express _them to better advantage.
A SHORT RESUME OF THESE LESSONS
/-PERSONALITY is gained through having a clear understanding of
/‘
that person YOU, and then, through exercising your powers, central-
izing the powers on definite goals you wish to realize. You can’t hit
a target by shooting a load of buckshot into the air. That is just what
some people are doing in connection with hitting this target~oPper-
vf sonalitv. Keep your_eyes on your goal—your target—and center your
powers on a definite objective.
^PERSONALITY CAN BE DEVELOPED. There are thousands of
instances _to demonstrate that this HAS BEEN DONE. And if others
can accomplish it, is there any good reason for you to SeTieve~that
you cannot?
People with PERSONALITY can be picked out even on the street.
The wayjhey walk, the confident attitude they show, the expression on
their faces, all go to form a picture of the personality behind that man
or woman. People with personality ]ook y_ou_in_the__eye,. no. signs of
/-self-fears are expressed on their faces—and you can’t help but have the
feeling when you meet such people—that they ARE powerful, that
they ARE sure of themselves, that ,they DO possess magnetism. And,
if you will notice, such people can pass through crowds with little
interference. People seem to make way for them. So strive, in your
general appearance, to express as much PERSONALITY as possible.
I have told you how the balancing of WILL, INTELLECT and XA
EMOTION, will contribute mightily to your personality and power.
Bear in mind that YOU have quite sufficient power, as far as the under­
lying principles of power go, and that it is just a question of develop­
ing, balancing, training, directing these various powers; so that they
may reach a given standard of strength, and directing them wisely
toward a given objective, for you to take your rightful place along with
the "looked up to” people of life.
149
Don’t forget that I have.told you that HABIT is responsible for
your flaws in connection with expression and personality. These habits
CAN BE CHANGED. Your hardest fights will be with HABITS.
Do not neglect the physical. I might go still further and say, don’t
neglect any one of the three planes of life we are supposed to live on—
'¡The MENTAL, PHYSICAL and SPIRITUAL. We all have a spiritual
side to our natures. I don’t mean by this that we hold orthodox beliefs
regarding religion, for that is only one expression of spiritual life.
I believe it is well to have an understanding of spirtiual things, so that
we may judge what we wish to accept and what we must reject. Thus,
if we cannot accept an orthodox faith, we at least build up a helpful
spiritual philosophy, whatever that may be.
Remember I have told you that TOLERANCE is called for to express
a well-balanced wholesome personality. We MUST permit others to
enjoy the same privilege of opinions that we demand. To have a con­
tempt, to argue, to dislike, to feel sorry for others, because they do not
fully agree with our views expresses littleness.
Through following out some of the things I have herein prescribed,
will actually mean better health for you, as well as an improved per­
sonality and greater happiness and success. I have tried to show you
how your thoughts have a marked effect on your body, as well as the
bodily conditions reflecting themselves to the mind.
Consider your mental powers in just the same light you view your
physical body and realize that development on both planes takes place
in quite the same way. Perhaps it will make this seem a little plainer
to you if I call these mental powers "mental muscles,” then you will
see that muscles must grow strong from EXERCISE.
CHARACTER is a part of a fine personality. I can’t picture an ideal
personality, without character back of it. So try to build up very real
character through meeting these hard things in youTlife and overcom­
ing them. Hard things, discipline, training, build character.
Strive to put yourself in a class with positive people, don’t picture
yourself as some kind of a negative weakling. Try to associate with
people from whom you can gain knowledge and absorb added strength.
Everyone carries a sort of thought atmosphere around with him. We
are to a degree sensitive to that atmosphere. Thus we can grow bigger
or smaller through the contacte we have in life. I do not wish you to
infer that I would have you become snobbish. Far from it. Be kind
150
? lAyJb
and considerate with everyone, but it is! not necessary for you to make
an intimate of everyone.
^ Auto-suggestion can be of service to you. Suggest to yourself the
ma,n or woman you wish to be, carry this picture to your subconscious
mind frequently, that is, perhaps_once or twice a day, and it will help
materially^ in forming new habits. Try to outline these ideals to self
in considerable detail for your subconscious mind is more a HABIT
MINDjthan | thinking ngnd.
Awaken combativeness, but use it tactfully and wisely. Let the
combativeness be directed toward that weaker side of self which you
are determined to eliminate, rather than toward other people. Good
taste is always to be displayed.
Show initiativeness and learn to willingly assume responsibility.
Thus you will develop a resourcefulness which can serve you construc­
tively.
Try to be cheerful at all times, for this sunshine reflects to your
Y-T-lnner-man. as well as^ts being a source of joy to others. A smile costs
but little, but can give out a lot.
Refuse to permit your naturally sensitive, emotional nature to rule
you. I have told you that when made to serve you, through YOUR
being in COMMAND, that it becomes an asset in life which will make
big things possible to you. Don’t shrivel up over something that is said,
but remember that things hurt us only to the extent tliat wejet them in.
If you do not give the words POWER, they will have no power, but
Twilljg}ll off_you like water does from a duck’s back.
Learn to appreciate humor. It will help to throw off the more serious
side of life ancf let in sunshine. Make a study of this and try every
few days to add a funny story to your list. You will find with practice
you can add materially to a gathering through telling a few funny inci­
dents or stories. It may be hard for you to do at first, for you will
wonder how well you will tell your story and how well it will be
received. Crush these foolish fears and make a start. The start is
always the hardest. ~
I want you to keep your lessons in a handy place and review them
frequently. By the time you have read this Twentieth Lesson, you
probably couldn’t tell me much about the First Lesson. Continue to go
over them until you have the cardinal points well fixed in your mind.
And remember that THOUGHT is never complete without ACTION.
It is not sufficient that you KNOW these things, but you must put
them into ACTION if you wish to materialize your dreams. "Day
dreamers” never travel very far, but it is those who are willing to pay
the price in ENERGY for success who really achieve success.
DON’T LET DISCOURAGEMENT WHIP YOU. Be brave and
KEEP FIGHTING. You CAN WIN.
I personally wish you great success in this new venture of yours, and
earnestly trust that my efforts will mean a much bigger and happier
life to YOU.
Very sincerely,
C. F r a n k l i n L e a v it t .
/ I
152
