{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__kaji___the_great_mystery.pdf","mytitle":"The Great Mystery","mylang":"de"}
THE GREAT MYSTERY
OF
LIFE BEYOND DEATH
As dictated by a Spirit
TO
DIWAN BAHADUR HIRALAL L. KAJI
INDIAN EDUCATIONAL SERVICE. BOMBAY.
NEW BOOK COMPANY
KITAB M AHAL. HORNBY ROAD
B O M B A Y
1938
Published b y P» DirvjV.aw for the New Boob Company. KHnb V ab sb
H ornby Road. Fort. Bombay t»nd Printed lit T ctf Printing
31. Tribhovan Road. Bombay 4,
PREFACE
No pleasure could be greater than the one
I experience in presenting this volume to the
public, in as much as I was given the unique
privilege of expounding the Great Mystery of
Life beyond Death as unfolded by the spirit
o f the famous spiritualist, the late Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle. I wish to state with all the
clearness and sincerity at my command that
no single idea expressed in this book is mine
and that no single sentence as recorded is
mine either. Beyond touching up some loose
expressions here and there, the book
is presented as spelt out letter by letter on
the Ouija Board by the late Sir Arthur
through my son Mr. Ashok H. Kaji and my
nephew Mr. Subodh B. Kaji. I may as well
confess that I have not read hitherto any book
on spiritualism, nor have I read any religious,
philosophical or metaphysical books of the
Hindus or any other nation for the matter of
that. My son is a B. Sc. of the Bombay
University and my nephew is an M. Com. of
the same University, and neither of them
has devoted any thought whatsoever to the
problems of the spirit-world, and the life
beyond death, for as they have repeatedly
declared, it is enough if they concentrated on
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
the problems of the life before them in this
world of the living instead of dabbling in
those of the life in the world of the dead, which
might well have an interest for people in the
evening of life. I want the public therefore
to accept the fact that in this book there is
absolutely no contribution of ideas, conscious
or sub-conscious, by myself or my son or my
nephew, and no contribution to expression,
excepting just a little touching up before
publication, for I have retained even some
queer and loose expressions.
The Ouija-Board is, besides, a fraud-proof
apparatus for spirit-communication. Neither
the medium nor the instruments go off into
a trance; they are fully conscious and remain
just their ordinary selves. There is no
darkening of the room, no switching off of
lights. The fact that the pointer is touched
lightly by one finger of each of the two
instruments is a proof of its movement being
directed not by them but by the thought-
impressions produced on the minds of each
of them by some outside intelligence from
beyond. No two persons can move the
pointer in harmony unless each is trying to
obey the same impulse of spelling out the
same words to express the same impressed
thoughts. While therefore the public might
remain as sceptical as they choose of the fact
of spirit communication, they should, I beg
vi
PREFACE
o f them,' recognise the fact that there is no>
fraud or trick, conscious or unconscious, in
the preparation of this little volume.
W ho dictated or spelt out the letters of the
words in the sentences in the book is a ques­
tion indeed. W e are told, the spirit is that o f
the late Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. If the public
want any proof of this, I am sorry, I am not
in a position to give it, though I feel convinced
that the dictator was Sir Arthur’s spirit indeed.
It is true that the value of spirit-communica­
tion is marred sometimes by the impersonation
of the spirit invoked by some frivolously
minded or wicked spirit. But, as Sir Arthur
pointed out to us, such a possibility cannot
be entertained for a moment in this particular
case, since no spirit would care to impersonate
another at more or less regular intervals,
over a period extending to about one whole
year and that too, not for an amusing chat
but for the serious purpose of book dictation,
and since the impersonator would not be able
to take up the thread just where it was left
on the preceding sitting and to make refer­
ences to phenomena described or explained in
preceding chapters. That the style in which
the thoughts are expressed is not quite the
one, which is so characteristically Sir Arthur’s
and which is familiar enough to the vast
number of the readers of his books on fiction,
spiritualism and other subjects, is clear enough.
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
But this, as Sir Arthur explains, is not in any
way strange. He was not writing, but orally
dictating without being able to look over the
sentences so dictated; sometimes he did ask
me to read out what I had written to enable
him to pick up the lost thread. The dictation
was besides by the conveyance of impressions
of thoughts in words to the two young men,
being thus restricted by the capacities of Sii
Arthur to convey and of Ashok and Subodh
to receive the correct impressions and spell
them out on the Board. In this process of
filtering through the minds of the two instru­
ments, Sir Arthur holds and rightly too, the
style gets naturally altered completely. The
logic, systematic presentation, analytical
ability and experienced exposition, however,
clearly reveal a master-writer and trained
author, for evidently the two young gentle­
men could not possibly, at their age and stage
of education, be regarded as capable of
producing, in this mysterious joint fashion,
a book like this on a subject, on which their
minds were a perfect blank. Besides, their
obvious reluctance to carry on the work till
completion clearly indicates that the thoughts,
ideas and explanations emanated from an
outside intelligence, we three having nothing
to do with these.
The story of this little volume might
perhaps be of some interest to the readers. I
viii
PREFACE
have always regarded myself as a rather
prosaic, matter-of-fact person, not given to
indulging in any flights of imagination. I was
not conscious of the possession o f any spiritual
powers, latent or patent. I had heard casually
o f the planchette and of the efforts at spirit-
rapping on the three-legged primus stove,
furnishing a sabbath occupation to desk-tied
and desk-tired clerks. My curiosity however
was aroused in 1921 by my sister describing
the experiences of a neighbour, who, placing
an inverted tiny metallic bowl on a pane of
glass and getting each one of a mixed party
o f five, males and females, to lightly touch it
with a finger, saw to his amazement the tiny
bowl moving, though very slowly, on the
glass surface towards one corner indicating
an affirmative or the other corner indicating
a negative answer to queries by members of
the party. W e tried the experiment ourselves
with some success; but, as we could not get
the invoked spirits to spell out any words on
the glass on which we pasted slips of paper
to represent the letters of the alphabet, we
lost interest in about a fortnight and dismissed
the matter from our minds.
It was in August 1932 that one evening
when the family had gathered after dinner,
I told my children of the episode of eleven
years back. My offer to try the experiment
was welcomed. W e began with the fingers
ix
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
of five persons touching the bow l; but as we
were getting interested a bit, one of the party-
had to leave. The remaining four however
continued and succeeded in imparting the
necessary energy to the bowl to move. This
led us to experiment with three and finally
with two, Ashok and Subodh. Our progress
W eis rapid and we established communication
with our relations; friends, local celebrities
and others. W e tried to lift the veil of the
future too to some extent, though -without any
great measure of success. W e tried to fathom
the mysteries of Life beyond Death
and gathered some information. Ashok and
Subodh tried, and sometimes successfully, to
know beforehand questions which were to
be asked in their examinations, though on
being lectured to on the basic immorality o f
the desire, they have successfully curbed this
instinct so natural to students. A death in
the family however upset us and turned our
thoughts away from such experiments com­
pletely and our spiritual progress was arrested.
In May 1935, the insistence of the late Sir
Lalubhai Samaldas, a friend, who would not
be denied, led us to resume our experiments
on the Ouija Board, when Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle became our spirit guide and friend.
Ashok and Subodh rapidly advanced and w e
had some very remarkable experiences. Sir
Chunilal V. Mehta, K.C.S.I., the ex-Finance
Member of the Government of Bombay, Sir
PREFACE
Lalubhai Samaldas, C.I.E., the well-known
co-operator, and industrialist, Sir Prabha-
shanker Pattani, K.C.S.I., the late septuagena­
rian Kathiawar statesman, Sir Kikabhai Prem-
chand, a leading financial magnate of Bombay,
the Honourable Sheth Shantidas Askuran,
Mr. K. L. Panjabi, of the Indian Civil Service,
and many of our other friends who had sittings
on various occasions, enrolled themselves
as believers, enthused us and extolled us, and
infused us with a sense of the importance of
the diffusion of a knowledge of the Great
Mystery so as to help clear the confusion that
so profusely befogs the vision of people about
the life beyond death.
One day, I forget, it was probably some­
time in April 1936, Sir Arthur told us that he
would be glad to dictate a small book on the
Life beyond Death, if we had the patience to
take it down. W e politely agreed but did
not take the proposal quite seriously. A few
weeks later, in May, while we were at Maha-
baleshwar for the summer, at an evening
seance, Sir Arthur asked us: What about the
book? I answered with a doubt as to its prac­
ticability. He however assured us that the
book would be about 150 type-written pages
and that he would dictate for two hours on
Saturdays and Sundays, so as not to interfere
with the studies of my boys. On my agreeing
to the idea, he said that he was ready with the
outlines of the book. I took paper and pen.
X
I
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
and jotted down the title page and the
synopsis almost exactly as now embodied in
the Contents.
The actual dictation of the subject matter
was commenced on our return to Bombay,
in July 1936. Saturdays and Sundays did not
prove suitable, however, because of social and
other engagements and two hours at a time
proved too much of a strain to Sir Arthur and
to the boys. W e went on rather irregularly
and our average sittings were of about 50
minutes’ duration, Sir Arthur dictating about
two pages in that time. As the work
progressed, the strain on the young gentlemen
intensified; but Sir Arthur’s persistence and
my insistence bore down their resistance and
our labours were at last completed at
Matheran in May 1937.
1 am but a medium and do not therefore
desire to expound, comment, analyse or
dissect any views or statements in this book.
It is possible, several statements may be
obscure; several points may have been
altogether ignored. But, 1 know, Sir Arthur
"wants this volume to be an introduction and
not an elaborate treatise expounding the
philosophy of the Great Mystery. I therefore
venture to publish the volume as it is. But
I do wish to assure all genuine serious seekers
of truth that any queries for a fuller explana­
tion of some topic, or for information on a
point o t points ignored in the book will be
sii
PREFACE
willingly received and referred to Sir Arthur,
who I have no doubt, will gladly discuss the
issues raised. The information thus obtained
will be passed on to the inquirer concerned.
If this volume in any way gives to readers
a broader and clearer vision of life and its
continuity, robs the Dark Unknown of its
mystery and Death of its terrors, consoles the
bereaved with the prospect of a reunion after
death, opens out vistas of interesting
speculation about the genesis, purpose of
creation, mission of life and the peculiar end-
the merger, if this volume helps to prevent
the youth from drifting purposeless in life,
to protect the adult from the pessimism of
failure or the optimism of success and to
conjure up before the aged not only pictures
of the past but also visions of the future and
to afford the scope not only for a contented
review of achievements but also for an
ambitious programme for further progress, if
this volume helps us to attain a clearer notion
of spiritualism and spirit-communication by
purging the subject of the morbidity that
envelopes it, and by urging us on despite our
placidity or timidity and helps to thaw the
frigidity or neutralise the acidity of our out­
look on the Great Problem, our purpose will
have been well served and our labour amply
rewarded.
I cannot conclude without expressing my
sense of deep gratitude to the spirit of the late
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle for selecting me as
the medium for his mission of service to
humanity and for the constant courtesy and
fervent friendship which he has ever extended
to me. His writings attracted me as a young
man and I am very gratified at the reflection
that our spirits have much in common and
feel attracted to each other so much. I take
this opportunity also to tender very humbly
„and reverently my respectful thanks to Shree
Yama Raj for kindly permitting this dictation
and publication.
I must also acknowledge with thanks the
services rendered by our late friend, Sir Lalu-
bhai Samaldas, without whose insistence, our
spiritual activities given up in July 1933
wT
ould not have been resumed from May 1935
and without whose active encouragement, we
could not have proceeded on -with our work
with any confidence.
I must also record here my very great
appreciation of the faithful and filial service
rendered by my son and nephew, without
whose close and constant co-operation, despite
their preoccupation with their university
studies, the production of this volume would
have been impossible.
HIRALAL L. KAJI.
CUMBALLAHllX,
EOMBAY, INDIA.
Buddha Jayenii,
4-h O dder 1938.
xiv
"I CAN ASSURE THE READERS
THAT THIS IS THE GENUINE WORK
OF SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE AND
THAT IT IS A NEARLY CORRECT
EXPOSITION OF THE MOST MYSTE­
RIOUS SECRETS OF HUMAN LIFE.”
SHREE YAMA RAJ.
CONTENTS
PREFACE
Page
v
INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . !
Inspiration— Existence of Spirits— Power to
call— Desire to respond— Different methods
of response— Automatic Writing— Crystal
Gazing— Medium-speaking— Ouija Board— Its (
■working— Mediums and Instruments— Materiali­
sation— No telepathy— Spirit and Soul— Idol
Worship.
CHAPTER I
D EATH . . . . . . . . . . I I ,
Physical end— The Yama Duta— Forceful
extraction of the soul— Unnatural deaths— Cap-
tM ty — Tew dayv' alroamta} s&af*— 77rcf
Push— Record of deeds.
CHAPTER II
TH E LEAP IN THE DARK . . . . . . 19
Carriage— The Unknown region— Fast move­
ment— Bad treatment—
—
Solitary state— Fati­
gue---- End of the Journey.
CHAPTER III
TH E GREAT TRIAL . . . . 28
The Patala— The .Court— Captives— Yama— De­
lays— Protracted trial— Detailed investigation
and procedure at the Court— Analysis of
human actions— No defence— The ruling— A s­
signment of planes— New birth orders— Interval
between successive births— Unison— Qualities
needed for progress— Special treatment;
mediums and instruments
xvii
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
CHAPTER IV pn
K
r
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES . . . . 50-
Location-—
Presiding Deities.
First Plane: The Pntnla— Is it Hell?— The
Court— Elcmenlnla— Activity of
Spirits— Haunting.
Second Plane: The Bhuloka— Spirits of low
order—
—
No activity— Freedom from
control.
Third Plane: The Tapaloka— Spirits of middle
class— Control-—Attendance at
trials— Collective actions— 'Touch
with the World,
Fourth Plane: The Chandralokn— Contented
spirits— Freedom to move— Touch
with higher powers— Yama’s visits.
Fifth Plane: The Suryaloha— Ambitious spi­
rits— Administrative work— Enrr-
giseT— Presiding deity.
Sixth Plane: The Swargaloka— Happy
souls— Cold spirits— Loss of touch
with the world— Loss of memory.
Seventh Plane: The Dcvaloka— Cod-Hke
souls— No touch with medi­
ums— No activity-—Rest.
CHAPTER V
THE THEORY OF RE-BIRTH . . . . . . 95-
Hindu belief— Buddhist doctrine of Karma— Re­
births and experience— Evolution—
—Reap­
ing the fruits of past life — Different
types of births— Number of births usually
required for Moksha— Missions of life— Short
lives and their missions— Concept of spirit-
identities— Change of sex.
CHAPTER VI
A D AY IN THE LIFE OF SPIRIT . . . . I I ?
Environment— No support necessary— No
particular duty— No physical senses— No need
for food or shelter— Attendance at trials— 'As­
signment of special duties— Attendance on
gods— Petty investigations— Visit to the
■world— Peep into the future— Daily routine.
xviii
CONTENTS
CHAPTER VII Pag*
TH E BONDS W ITH THE W ORLD . . . . I3&
Worldly affections— Change of sphere after
death— Influence of planes on temperament of
spirits— Condition of feelings before
death— Mediums and coldness of spirits— Un­
fulfilled desires— Shraddha and the progress of
spirits— Blood-relations and friends— Attraction
at first sight.
CHAPTER VIII
TH E POWERS AND DISABILITIES OF SPIRITS . . 152
Mental powers— General— Elementals and
Haunting—-Evil consequences of help from
elementals— Ordinary spirits— Higher spirits:
Inspiration— Advice— Guesses about fu­
ture— Access to divine souls— Medium’s influ­
ence — Materialisation — Details of next
birth— Attendance on mediums— Vision— Pro­
duction of sound— Memory— Knowledge -of
past birth— -Transmission of news— Boons— Spi­
rits among themselves— Impersonation and
misleading.
CHAPTER IX
TH E FINAL G O AL . . . . . . . . 1 7 b
Aim of life in worldly sense— Idea of
Karma — * Reincarnation — Ambition — Mok­
sha— Merger, the peculiar end— Longevity of
life- -God: Form; residence; powers; darshan;
relation to other gods— The Creator vs.
Yama— Final influence over the world— Pur­
pose of Creation.
XIX
INTRODUCTION.
Inspiration— Existence of Spirits— Power to
call— Desire to respond— Different methods of res­
ponse— Automatic Writing— Crystal Gazing— Medium
Speaking— Ouija Board— Its Working— Mediums and
fnstruments— Materialisation— No telepathy— Spirit
and Soul— Idol Worship.
Inspiration: Many spirits like myself have
in the past made attempts to unfold the
mysteries which exist after the physical end
o f life, but without success, as the mediums
through whom they sought to communicate
these mysteries to the world of the living
usually got .tired and gave up their work. I
had the same experience myself some time
back, but I hope this second attempt of
mine becomes successful. In this case, I feel,
I have found a suitable medium and it is this
circumstance that inspires and impels me to
take up this difficult task.
Existence of Spirits: One of the most con­
troversial questions is the existence of life
beyond death.. A few decades back, the
civilised world laughed at the idea o f spirits
and communication \yith the dead was regarded
as only foolish. Very recently however a
great change is in evidence. Spiritualism has
1
attracted many amateurs as mediums and these
have tried to give to the world some idea o f
spirits. Seances have revealed such facts that
even the most sceptical are forced to admit
the existence of such beings and supernatural
powers.
Power to call: One is naturally inclined to
ask why if such beings can and do exist, it
should not be feasible for all persons to talk
with them. The reply to such a query is that
spirits are not human beings and some special
powers are therefore required in the person
who seeks to enter into communication with
them. To define such powers is not free from
difficulties, as three out of every five mediums
are known to practise fraud. However, it
can safely be asserted that such powers are
latent in most men and can best be developed
by practice.
Desire to Respond: In the world of the
living, there is a strong belief that the dead,
are not ready and willing to mix with the
living; but it may be pointed out that such a
notion is quite incorrect and that the holders
of such a view are grossly mistaken. As a
matter of fact, spirits are rather anxious to
enter into communication with human beings.
It is only when a considerable time has elapsed,
after their passing away from this life, that
their desire to meet and talk with the living
gets weakened. Further, many persons who
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
2
INTRODUCTION
have had the chance of seeing or o f talking
with spirits do not hold conversation wjth
them properly. Here it is the fault of the
living rather than of the dead. The unsatis­
factory nature of the conversation with the
spirits at the first sitting need not discourage
the medium or his client; for when sittings
are numerous, the results are much better.
Different Methods of Response. Automatic
Writing: Mediums have continually tried to
devise various methods to be in effective touch
with the spirit-world: but none so far has
reached perfection. To review a few of these
methods, there is the method known as Auto­
matic Writing. The words are self-explana­
tory. In this case, the medium is supposed
to invoke the desired spirit through his spirit
control. Such a spirit-control is usually his
friend and assists him in establishing contact
with the desired spirits. When the spirit is
invoked, the medium begins to receive impres­
sions and the manifestation of these impressed
thoughts takes the shape of letters of the
alphabets forming words and sentences. But
to the audience it appears as if the medium is
writing down his own thoughts in the ordinary
way, instead of the thoughts impressed upon
him by the spirit invoked. It may be made
clear at this juncture that some mediums of
this class are genuine; but there are some
who practice fraud, so that it is difficult to
3
separate the genuine from the fraudulent, the .
wheat from the chaff.
Crystal Gazing: Another method usually
spoken of in connection with spirit communi­
cation is the one known as Crystal-Gazing.
This method is of Indian origin. In the time
o f the Moguls, it found favour with at least
the Muslim population. The mechanism is
very simple. A glass ball, say of 6 inches
diameter is needed. The person who possesses
the power of gazing can see in the crystal the
. events which are likely to occur within a
reasonable time. Crystal-gazing is merely
an attempt to foretell the future, this being
accomplished by the help of such spirits who
can guess the future with approximate
correctness. But the idea of holding conver­
sations of other nature with -spirits is not
developed in this method. ■Whatever may be
the state of development of crystal-gazing in
Mogul times, it must be acknowledged that
it is at present in a deplorable state and should
be abandoned for all .practical purposes of
spirit-communication.
Medium-Speaking: Moreover, automatic
writing and crystal gazing are in a way very
'slow for rapid communication between the
spirit world and the world of the living. To
remedy this shortcoming, therefore, mediums
after receiving the impressions from the spirits
invoked often give them publicity through
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
4
INTRODUCTION
their own speech. Thus so far as this'method
of Medium-Speaking is concerned, there is
no tardiness or delay, for the spirit invoked
is able to express his- ideas easily and rapidly
through the impressions he implants on the
medium. Like the previous methods, this
method also is not above fraud. The speed
with which the conversation takes place often
makes it impossible for the spirit concerned
to give out his impressions to the medium, in
as much as spirits require some time to mould
their views in proper sentences. A t any rate,
remarkable speed is achieved and for all
practical purposes, therefore, this method o f
medium-speaking must be regarded as a fairly
good method.
Ouija Board. Its working: Coming now
to the most current system of spirit-communi­
cation, we have an arrangement called the
Ouija Board. In a crude state, it consists of
a board with the letters of the alphabet
arranged on its borders. In the case of a well-
prepared board, we usually have a circular
board with a glass covering. The letters'look
very decent if they are in black and white.
To operate the Board, we use a wooden piece
of say one inch diameter.. The medium
receives the impressions from . the spirit
invoked and communicates these impressions
by moving the wooden piece to the various
letters of the alphabet forming words and
5
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
sentences. The glass covering reduces fric­
tion to a minimum and enables great speed
to be achieved and makes rapid communica­
tion possible. In most cases, the medium is
able to operate the Board himself, and the
speed "with which the Board can function
largely depends on the powers of the medium
to receive and transmit the messages received
from the spirits. Usually the Ouija Board
makes it possible to have a good talk with the
desired spirit. Sometimes however the
medium himself is not able to operate the
Board and requires the help of one or more
persons as instruments for the purpose. The
possibility of fraud is therefore present in this
system if the medium functions both as the
medium and as the instrument. But .if these
two are separate people, the dangers of fraud
or any such underhand means are largely
obviated.
Medium and Instruments: Many persons
who can invoke spirits think that they possess
mediumistic powers: but all such persons are
not mediums in themselves. Some are born
mediums and some achieve mediumship
through laborious practice. A person who is
a strong-willed man and who can attract
spirits is a genuine medium. There is some
natural force in them that makes the spirits
obey their call. In case of weak mediums,
w e find that all their sittings are not successful,
6
INTRODUCTION
the underlying cause being that their power
is not strong enough. A person who is
ordinarily likely to give weight to others’ views
and who is fairly intelligent makes a good
instrument, what being chiefly required of
them being a good receptive brain. Weaker
mediums are instruments themselves as well;
but the stronger the medium, the weaker is
the power of functioning as his own instru­
ment and very strong mediums are helpless
without their instruments. To make the idea
clearer, one might conceivably say that the
spirits are the electric light bulbs, the medium
is the main electric power, which can light
bulbs and the instruments are the switch,
without turning which on, no contact can be
established between the light-bulbs and the
electric energy. The presence of one instru­
ment or two coupled with a medium makes the
system fraud-proof. The fact that three
persons are thus associated in the operation
* Ouija Board should allay suspicions in
the minds of even the most sceptical people,
in as much as three persons cannot form a
conspiracy among themselves, in so far as
no two people can agree in marshalling out a
certain sentence.
Materialisation: In the present state of
affairs, it is very difficult to say whether there
are any mediums who can materialise spirits.
But it is agreed, at the same time, on all hands,
7
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
that spirits do materialise. Human beings
have a very hazy notion of Materialisation.
So far, it was held that spirits have no shape;
and this holds good to-day even. But when
materialisation does take place, the vapour
in the atmosphere gets condensed and gives
rise to a form resembling a human being. W e
must realise thus that materialisation is
possible only if there are powerful spirits and
if a suitable atmosphere is in existence.
Seances have revealed that most spirits are
not in a position to get the necessary vapour
around them. To add to this, it is recognised
that a special power is necessary for
materialisation and that that power is very
rare. The effects of materialisation are not
good in so far sis it tends to draw away a spirit
from his own sphere; and further it is not
good for the medium either, because it results
in a consumption o f his mental energies. The
Indian Idea that it is not desirable to wean
away spirits back to the material world applies
correctly in this case, and a time will come
when that idea will gain acceptance even
amongst western mediums as they are
gradually feeling that this mode of communi­
cation does not find favour with spirits.
No telepathy: Even the most intelligent
observer has tried to correlate spiritualism
with some branch of psychology. In this
■science, which relates to the unconscious mind
8
INTRODUCTION
and its effects, we find that large powers are
attributed to human minds. 'One of the most
important o f these powers is that of thought­
reading and thought-transfer. W e know
however that this power is not found in
normal cases, and to say that spiritualism is
but developed telepathy is far from truth.
The simpler course is to believe in the
existence of spirits and to regard the Board as
a receiving set and to consider the instruments
as the transmitting apparatus, the medium
being an exchange operator. This in a nut­
shell explains this supernatural phenomenon.
The Ouija-Board has no connection what­
soever with telepathy but. it is a pure and
simple telephone service.
Spirit and Soul: Many would like to think
of spirits as ghosts which are described in
fiction; but I, as a spirit, can assure you that
a ghost is an elemental and therefore not a
spirit. Spirits have no body, nor any shaper
they are a mere energy as distinguished from
mere conception. It is certainly not matter
as none of the properties of matter are present
in spirits. The spirit however must not be
confounded with the soul. A fine line o f
difference exists between spirits and souls.
Both are not human. That which takes birth
is the soul; but the part which remains in the
upper world is the spirit. Thus soul and spirit
mean one and the same thing in popular
9
parlance, but if viewed from a spiritual angle
of vision, the identity of a soul in the spirit
world is the spirit.
Idol Worship: In the East especially, we
meet with idol worship. The idea underlying
is not easily grasped by western people. Those
who are gifted with the powers of concentra­
tion need not have an idol before them; but
those who form the masses require something
before them to enable them to concentrate for
a short while at least on things other than
those of the world. Most Hindus believe that
idol worship is the golden path for attaining
salvation; but the notion is hardly correct. It
must be admitted however that it tends to
make a man spiritually minded and in my
opinion, that is the function of idol-worship,
in so far as it puts the worshipper in direct
touch with superior beings, and in so far as it
is a good method of spirit-communion if not
o f spirit communication.
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
10
CHAPTER I
DEATH
Physical end— The Yama Duta— Forceful extrac­
tion of the soul— Unnatural deaths— Captivity— Ten
days’ abnormal stay— The Push— Record of deeds.
Physical End: Every man is called a mortal,
because no person is free from the monster
o f Death. The incident of Death is always
novel, even though it occurs in all the births
which the soul has to undergo. No living being
can imagine the real significance of Death. It is
really a singular event in one’s life. This
incident does not occur at any particular age,
but its time varies widely. What rules govern
this variation of the age at Death will be dealt
with subsequently. But this much can be said
that Death overpowers a person in his weak
state, for when the health is bad, it is very easy
to bring about the physical end of life. One
might perhaps wonder why it is that men are
horrified at the idea of Death. Probably it is
due to the realisation that Death means the
end of one’s life and that what is to come is
unknown. Thus the closing period of a
person’s life is far from peaceful, for he is-
1
1
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
founcf perpetually worrying about the future
of bis own self. This however in. no way
stops Death from having its sway.
The Yama Duta: "When the time for leaving
the world comes, the Yarna’s Court orders a
certain spirit to take charge o f the soul con­
cerned. Those spirits who are hard-hearted
and who have retained some powers resemb­
ling physical force are asked to take up this
sort of work. So far as I know, no spirit likes
the. job, and the drafting of spirits to this
service becomes in consequence something in
the nature of conscription. Such conscripted
spirits have got to perform this unpleasant
duty assigned to them by the Yama Raj, the
God of Death. This messenger is popularly
known as the “ Yama Duta” . He actually
comes to the world while other spirits do not
do so usually.
Forceful Extraction of the Soul: It is indeed
a very difficult task for the Duta to take away
die soul of a human being. His powers are
also not strong enough to combat with the
human force; but at this time, Yama Raj
himself imparts the necessary force and this
liberates the soul from the body. This force
of the God of Death may well be termed the
Death Ray. Scientists have striven for years
to find out the nature of this force but so far
they have not got any clue. It is a super­
natural force which shall remain beyond the
12
DEATH
scope o f science. The effect of this ray is
severe indeed, in so far as it tends to break up
the whole body into pieces. ,Every limb feels
the acute agony o f piercing pain. The body
has to remain under its influence till it gives
way. The struggle is very hard and lasts for
a pretty long time, but it invariably leads to
the success of Death, through the over­
dominating influence of Yama’s powers. In
most cases, we find that the soul is very
reluctant to leave the body and the soul has to
be extracted forcibly by the Death Messenger.
The soul is a sort of energy and it is endowed
with a considerable amount of force. The
tussle is therefore protracted. If somehow or
other the Death Ray is not liberated the Duta is
helpless but instances of such mismanagement
are few and far between. The soul is very often
given a fair chance to close its bodily existence
peacefully; but •almost invariably the op­
portunity is not availed of and th6 use of force
is inevitable.
It is commonly believed among the Hindus
that the dying'person sees or feels the presence,
o f the Yama Duta arid reveals his conscious­
ness of the presence by agonised shrieks or
tortuous bewilderment. The dogs in the
vicinity set up a series of mournful howls due,
it is held, to their uncanny sixth sense which
makes them conscious o f the presence of the
Messenger of Death. It has been further
13
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
commonly held that in the case of a saintly or
good soul, the Duta is unable to seize the soul
and Yama Raj himself has to come down
to achieve the purpose. The legend of
Satyavan and Savitri speaks of the strong will
and soul force of the pure and devoted wife
which rendered the Duta helpless and
compelled the presence of Yama Raj himself.
Savitri is said to have followed Yama Raj who
was dragging away the soul of her husband
Satyavan in a net for miles, whether physically
or otherwise we are not told and won back
her lord from Yama Raj’s clutches by her soft
pleadings and devoted remonstrance. All
this is however not correct. Apparently there
is a glimmer of truth when the forceful
extraction of the soul, its captivity and the
last journey of the soul are alluded to. But
it never is necessary for the God of Death
himself to come down for the extraction of
the soul. His Death Ray is quite sufficient for
the purpose.*
Unnatural Deaths: It has been remarked
above that before Death overtakes a person,
it is essential that weakness of some sort or
the other must overpower him. This weak­
ness may take various forms. It might be
physical weakness or it might be mental; it
* A * a result of a discussion with Sir Arthur, 1 wrote out*
this paragraph, read it over to him and with his approval
added it here.
14
DEATH
might affect the senses or it might affect the
sensibilities, the emotions. Thus when a person
ends his physical existence voluntarily by
suicide, there is the weakness o f the mind or
of the emotions, which makes him over­
wrought or highstrung and throws him out of
balance. An accident is the result of some
.conscious or sub-conscious absent-minded­
ness, which is thus a form of weakness inviting
the presence of the Yama Duta followed by
the liberation of the Death Ray by Yama Raj
at the proper moment. Thus in all cases of
deaths, whether a person is good or sinful,
whether he dies a lingering or a sudden or
voluntary death, the God of Death sends his
Messenger and the soul is forcibly extracted
from its bodily tenement.
Captivity: After the long drawn struggle,
life in the body becomes extinct and the soul
comes out exhausted and haggard. It is very
easy for the Duta now to capture the soul
which is weak. This captivity is a unique one
in so far as there is no physical captivity. The
effect of the Death Ray is still very strong and
there is no need to capture the soul by any
device. When thus captured, the soul is not
free to do all things which he might desire.
He has to obey all the orders of the Duta.
There is however only one freedom of action
during the captivity of the soul and that is that
he can move about among his relatives. In
15
normal circumstances, he should not, during
this period, respond to calls of mediums. If
any such attempt is made,- however, he will
not be allowed, the liberty of moving about
among his family. This sort o f captivity lasts
for ten days. It is a period of great hardship
as the attitude of the Yama Duta is very stem
•and every breach of rules is directly reported
forthwith to the Court authorities.
Ten days’ abnormal stay: The struggle of
Death is over and bodily existence is a thing
of the past. The soul is in an extremely
perturbed state. The links with the world are
yet fresh before him and he is all the while
lamenting over his failure to resist Death. To
add poignancy to his grief, he witnesses his
own burial or cremation ceremony and such'
other allied functions.. If the soul concerned
has relatives,- their lamentations and mourn­
ing make him completely restless, for he is at
once cut off from them and from the world
of the living. The shock is so severe that it is
very painful for him to stay any longer. But
he is compelled to do so and that too for a
' good cause. During these days, he has got
to leam to overcome feelings and sentiments
He is among the people he loved most and yet
he is denied the power to talk with them. He
is in a place where eatables are in plenty and
yet he has no access to them. In this way, he
has to leam many things and to-acquire varied
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
16
DEATH
experiences. It is the duty of the Duta to take
the soul to various places, which would tempt
him and in this manner study his character.
A cid tests o f all types are applied during this
period. At the end of this period, the duty of
the Duta is over and the soul is handed over
to another spirit who has to take him to the
spirit world. It is interesting to note that only
ten days are reserved for a stay in this world
after Death. The first three days are used up
in attending the funeral ceremonies; the next
four days are necessary for testing the soul
by the Duta in various ways, while the
remaining three days are granted to the soul
to see his relatives and to settle down. Further
some souls need to be instructed by the Duta
before they leave for the next world. They
are coached up about their journey to the next
world,. Before 1 touch upon the next point,
it should be made clear that in the Hindu
- religion we find that there exists a belief that
the soul is kept lingering on in the world, but
the theory does not give the above-stated
reasons. It is sad to note that other religions
have no ideas about such existence after Death
and much less about Re-Birth.
The Push: The old Yama Duta leaves the
soul at this stage as his responsibility is over.
He hands over the soul to another spirit, who.
is in charge of the transport department of
Yama Raj. He is a spirit who has force enough
17
to lead the soul through the most complex
journey which the soul has to undertake. He
has got abnormal speed. He is said to have
a speed of 100 miles per hour. All the while,
he drags the soul in an extremely rough
manner. He knows no respect, no merit, and
shows no kindness. He is taking the soul as
if he was carrying bundles o f goods instead
of one of God’s creations. Now we shall see
how he gives momentum to the fagged-out
inert soul. When he deems it expedient, he
summons the winds to his aid. A very strong
gale puts the soul in a state which is essential
for speedy transport. This moment is the
final one, so' far as the present birth is
concerned.
Record of deeds: Before we conclude this
chapter I think a description of the recording
of the deeds of the soul concerned should be
given. No sooner does the soul come out
from the body than he is asked to give out
all he knows about himself. O f course, there
is no speech but the thoughts expressed are
received by the Duta. It is then the duty of
the Messenger of Yama to transmit the
relevant features of the soul’s doings, to the
principal Court. There the spirits in charge
record the information received on the layers
of air. These records are useful at the Trial.
In the next chapter, we shall speak o f the
unique journey which lasts for nearly ten days.
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
18
CHAPTER II
THE LEAP IN THE DARK
Carriage— The Unknown region— Fast move­
ment— Bad treatment— Solitary state— Fatigue— End
of the Journey.
Carnage: The soul being blown up by a
gust of wind is in a proper condition to
commence his travel to the Satya Darbar or
the Final Tribunal. The spirit in charge now
assumes full possession of the soul and
towards that purpose he proceeds to rob
him o f his valuable power of vision,- The
poor soul is as it were thus blindfolded and
thrown upon the tender mercies of the spirit
from whom he is obliged to seek help. The
deprivation of the power of sight by the spirit
appears rather strange for one does not
understand its proper significance. Spirits in
general do not and this spirit of the Transport
Department in particular does not possess any
power to control a soul and it is probably this
that makes recourse to this indirect method o f
obtaining full control over him necessary on
the part of the spirit. With the soul thus
rendered helpless, the spirit begins to perform
19
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
his most important duty and moves further
and further from the 'world. His movement
is of two kinds. In the beginning, it is that
o f climbing higher and higher and afterwards
it usually takes a westerly direction.
The Unknown Region: While climbing, we
leave the world behind and move in an upward
direction. The region which the soul has to
traverse is our atmosphere: but it is the worst
possible region as we shall see subsequently.
The first few miles are tolerable in so far as
the stormy elements are of a mild nature.
When this distance is covered, a halt is ordered
b y the Yama’s Court. The spirit is allowed to
restore the sight to the soul, the idea underly­
ing being to test the soul. But as soon as the
sight is thus restored, the soul makes an
attempt to go back to his old world and it is
rare to find a soul who can curb such a very
natural desire. The consequences o f such'
attempts are however very serious in view of
the fact that the soul is at once ordered to tour
round the world. The spirit thereupon takes
him to the old world again and the tour com­
mences. The time allotted for the whole
journey is very limited and to incorporate this
■extra tour of about 25,000 miles in the
programme means a great deal of extra trouble
and hardship. It is, therefore, very advisable
to control one’s own desire to return back
to the world and thereby avoid the extra
20
THE LEAP IN THE DARK
discomfort and untold miseries and
troubles attendant upon a whirl round
in a world tour. The journey is now
resumed and the region becomes positively
bad and terrifying. Darkness benumbs the
soul bereft as he is of his power of sight; the
atmosphere after a certain height becomes
very uncomfortable and, despite what science
might hold, storms of all types are perpetual;
thunder and lightning make bad matters
further worse for the poor dragged soul to-
withstand and the fears of the unknown add
to the horrors o f the journey which no power
of the pen can effectively and vividly portray.
Fart Movement: The distance to be
accomplished is long, very long and the time
allotted is usually ten days, much too short
for the distance. A high degree of speed
therefore becomes absolutely essential and the
extra world tour imposes a greater obligation
to achieve still higher speeds. The spirit
moves fast and yet faster and the poor soul is
towed, is dragged along, at the same speed
amidst the gloom and impenetrable darkness,
which the absence of vision entails and which
appears most bewildering, terrifying and
frightful. There is no groping about in the
dark; there is rather a wild and mighty and
furious rush. To the soul, this is a very
severe trial indeed. With the forced sever­
ance from his earthly tenement, from the
21
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
relatives, friends and companions he "was so
closely associated in life with, with the
captivity and the ten days’ abnormal stay after
Death, this exceedingly fast movement is
intensely nerve-racking.
Bad Treatment: The spirit in charge is
perpetually dissatisfied with the soul as he is
not able or rather does not attempt to follow
him; and this results in the manifestation of
a very severe and hostile attitude on the part
of the spirit. Every time the soul grumbles
about the speed, the spirit gets extremely
angry and instead of slackening the speed ever
so little, accelerates it. He is not amenable
to reason or argument but acts in a truly
despotic fashion. Many times during the
journey, the soul requests him to restore his
power of sight; but he does not even soothe
the poor soul, who, to add to his difficulties,
•does not know when the journey would end or
the moment when his sight would be restored.
Suspense in the mind of the soul tends to
retard his speed which in its turn invites
rebukes and castigation from the spirit in
charge. Even towards the end of the journey,
the spirit does not become in any way friendlj'
but continues to be as taciturn and harsh as
ever. Sometimes when it becomes absolutely
essential to stop, he does so very reluctantly
and that too for a very short period. This sort
o f attitude appears to me to be very strange.
22
THE LEAP IN THE DARK
The soul should not be treated in such an out­
rageous fashion in so far as he has committed
no fault. Another thing that strikes me is
that the duration of the travel can be easily
increased in view of the fact that the distance
to be covered is enormous. Furthermore the
tour round the world, a feature of a very large
percentage of such journeys of souls after
death is redundant as the soul without the
power of vision cannot gain anything from
such a tour. In my discussion with the Yama
Raj, however, I have gathered that the tour is
not for pleasure or education but is merely
intended as a punishment, to the unchastened
soul, whose longings for the world he has left
have not yet lost their strength and intensity,
for not curbing his desire to go back. In some
cases, when the soul absolutely refuses to obey
the orders of the spirit or refuses to move, the
only course left open for the spirit is to inform
the Court about the recalcitrancy of the soul.
The Court will then liberate a speed-ray, which
would drag the soul to his final destination.
Solitary State: It happens in many cases
that the soul takes a defiant attitude and haras­
ses the spirit-in-charge in many ways. All such
attempts on the part of the soul however lead to
disastrous consequences; and yet we find that
as many as forty per cent of the souls try their
level best to tease, vex and obstruct the spirit-
in-charge. At first the spirit tries to ignore
23
such acts, but when they become too frequent,
he takes notice of them and warns the soul.
In some cases, this has no effect and the spirit
ultimately gets tired and sick o f such a soul;
but being afraid of reporting such matters too
often to the Court, he employs another device
and that is of disappearing from the ken o f
the soul and thereby leaving him to look after
himself in the impenetrable darkness. The
soul who is bereft of sight and who for die
time being is thus left in very complex and
difficult circumstances realises now his own
faults; but this repentence on his part does
not evoke any sympathy from the spirit-in
charge, who continues to leave him in solitude.
The soul has to brood over his mistakes, for
even three days in some cases, after which the
spirit returns refreshed to resume the journey.
This solitary state is perhaps the most difficult
time for the soul, as he is left bewildered in
most dangerous surroundings. It must be
made clear that those souls who behave
well and are obedient are of course not
left in the lurch by the spirit. It is therefore
very advisable for the soul not to flout the
authority of or cause annoyance to the spirit,
for, otherwise, apart from the absence of any
good will on the part of the spirit, he will
encounter positive harshness and will have to
undergo the utterly demoralising experience o f
the solitary state.
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
24
F
atigue: After the solitary soul gets his
guide again, he begins to proceed further on
his weary way. A t first, the soul is also
refreshed as he had a compulsory stoppage for
two or three days. His guide is however much
more refreshed as he had a nice rest when the
soul was left alone. The excessive fatigue
which jhas been accumulating during the
journey makes it nearly impossible for the soul
to follow the spirit who is now actually running
faster to make up for the three days which
were wasted in bringing the soul to his senses.
The soul, who is not in a position to even drag
along, cannot possibly keep pace with the
spirit. But anyhow the soul has to follow
the spirit, because if he does not do so he
would not be able to reach in time. He has
got to be present in the Court before the
period of ten days is over. The fatigue is so
pressing that the soul is often forced to request
the spirit in charge to stop for a while but the
request in most cases receives scant attention
and passes off unheeded by the spirit.
The deprivation of the power of sight, the
long-drawn journey, the terrors of an unknown
region, fast locomotion, unsympathetic and
harsh treatment from his guide, the solitary
state which more often than not the soul has
to face and the unimaginable fatigue and
exhaustion are features of this Leap into and
Rush through the Dark which make the final
THE LEAP IN THE DARK
25
journey o f the soul the most unique and
inconceivable even under the incubus of a
frightful nightmare.
All souls have to traverse the same region
and follow the same identical track with so
many persons dying at about the same time;
so many souls are travelling towards the same
destination accompanied by their respective
guides, and the traffic along the route is heavy
indeed. But the souls being without the
power of sight do not see any other souls or
their guides overtaking them or being over­
taken by them nor are they conscious about
them. Each soul is absorbed in and is consci­
ous only of his own problem and his own self
heedless of what might be happening to others
similarly situated.
End of the Journey: About nine days
are used up in reaching the Yama’s Court. But
the spirit-in-charge does not go to the Court
with the soul. When it is about five miles or
so, he leaves him alone and hurries up to the
Court and informs the spirits who happen to
be there that a particular soul has come near
them. If the soul was a person who had
achieved fame, many spirits go to receive him.
If he was not a known man, hardly a few
would care to receive him, except his near
relatives. So far, the soul was not ip a position
"to meet any one; but now as he is relieved o f
the control of the spirit, he is able to mix with
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
26
THE LEAP IN THE DARK
those who come near him. His eyesight is
as it were restored, because he is able to see
not physically but as spirits do. The soul
becomes buoyant and gay, as he happens in
most cases to be among his relatives and
friends.
Now at last the fast movement is at an end
and the lessening of fatigue is a great relief
to the dragged soul. His friends take him
very quietly and slowly to the Court. But
the soul begins to get uneasy about his
impending trial. The soul is not yet entitled
to enter the Yama’s Court. He has to procure
a permit to enter this divine tribunal where
his case is to be decided. The spirit-in-charge
usually during this period procures the permit
and takes the'-soul in the Court where he is to
await his trial. Control over the soul is now
very nominal and he is at liberty to act accord­
ing to his sweet will, the only reservation being
that he has to attend the Court during office-
hours.
27
CHAPTER III
THE GREAT TRIAL
The Fatale— -The Court— Captives— Yama— De­
lays— Protracted trial— Detailed investigation and
procedure at the Court— Analysis of human
actions— No defence— -The ruling— Assignment of
planes— New birth order— Interval between succes­
sive births— Unison— Qualities needed for pro­
gress— Special treatment; mediums and instruments.
The Patala: The place where Yama holds
his Court is known in Hindu mythology as
Patala. The word ordinarily signifies the
underworld, or even the antipodes. The idea
of an underworld is common among the
Christians too and the underworld of Satan
compares to some extent with the popular
idea of Yama’s region. But as a matter of fact,
the conceptions of- Yama and Satan are
radically different.
This important region is situated about a
few hundred miles from the world of human
beings and is certainly composed of the atmos­
phere; but the density of the air pervading
there as compared with the air in other parts
of the spirit -world reminds one of the air-
conditions in mines. The air is very heavy
28
THE GREAT TRIAL
and makes it rather uncomfortable for the
spirits and souls, though they do not inhale
any air whatsoever. The area of this first
plane is very large, nearly half o f our world.
Even though such a large space is reserved for
new spirits as well as for old ones, it is always
heavily crowded with all sorts o f spirits and
souls. The Patala is roughly divided into two
parts one for Court purposes and the other
for spirits who are classed as elementals and
there is a great insurmountable barrier between
these two parts of the region.
The soul who was about five miles away is
gradually brought into this region and is
admitted to the Court section of this place.
He is fairly comfortable in the new world, as
he is among such souls and spirits as were
familiar to him, prior to his departure from his
old world. The tried does not begin at once,
and this is a relief to him in so far as he is not
prepared to face it, after such a lengthy and
tiring journey. Gradually he fits into the new
and peculiar order of things at the Court. It
is assumed here the word Court includes the
area adjoining the Court proper which is
utilised for accomodating souls awaiting trials
and also those who feel like witnessing the
daily proceedings.
Tbe Court: So far we have spoken of the
region as such. W e shall now however speak
o f the Court with Yama at its head. A s we
29
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
Lave seen before, the Court is in the plane
called the Patala and extends to about half of
the total area of the plane. Sixty per cent of
this area however is reserved for souls await­
ing their own trial; while the other forty per
cent is the part set apart for the actual Court.
The daily proceedings are conducted here and
the Chief Justice, or to express it in the terms
current here, the Yama Raj, is at the head. In
the centre, the Yama takes his seat. It would
appear to some that there would be some con­
crete sitting accomodation, but such an illusion
should not be maintained, as there are no such
facilities nor are they necessary in view of the
fact that there is no longer any physical
existence there.
Just near the God of Justice, are found
spirits who are in charge of the records of all
souls. The record keepers are classified into
two major groups, one doing the actual work
of recording, after receiving the requisite
information from the spirits-in-charge who
send, on such information shortly after a
person dies. The other section of the record
keepers does the work of transcribing the
records when evidence is sought from them
by the prosecutor at the time of the trial.
Just behind these record keepers, there are
about a hundred spirits who specialise in pro­
curing any further information in case the
record proves inadequate. These spirits are
30
THE GREAT TRIAL
o f a very high order and they possess the very
rare quality o f deduction from the scanty
material which may be available to them.
Soon after we leave this group of spirits, we
find ourselves among so-called specialists who
out o f philanthropy wish to plead for those
souls who in their opinion deserve such help.
But all spirits cannot act as Counsel unless
they are permitted by the Yama-in-CounciL
The merits necessary for holding such an
honorary post are never explained; but if I
may be allowed to surmise, a clear-cut idea
of important problems affecting souls would
qualify one to be elected as one of such cele­
brated spirits. Their work is not selfless in
the sense that they, usually, after some time
request Yama to promote them to better
planes.
Then on the left side o f Yama we see the
prosecutor, with a few assistants to help him
in his laborious task. Near these spirits, we
have a score of attendants who bring the souls
according to the numbers allotted to them.
The attendants are not in any way the servants
of Yama’s Court. They are requested to
work only for a comparatively short time
after which period a new batch is substituted
in their place. In this way, this part of the
Court work is carried on by the temporary
services of spirits.
31
So far we have dealt with some of the most
important officials who are usually found in the
Court. It will have been seen that the Court
o f the spirits resembles in many respects the
courts in the human world. O f course, there
are some points o f difference which however
will be dealt with subsequently. Over and
above the space for these officials, there is an
area reserved for other spirits who desire to
see the proceedings of the Court. The usual
attendance is very large as most spirits utilise
their leisure time in the Court, though there
are some spirits who never like to attend the
Court with the result that they have a very
defective knowledge o f the spirit-world.
Captives: So far we have only looked at
the officials of the Court; but there are the
souls who have come from the world very
recently. These are strictly under the super­
vision o f spirits-in-charge o f these captives.
They are awaiting their trial and are very
anxious to have die trial commence at once.
All the while, they are in a very perturbed
state of mind, for they feel just like persons
in a law court in the presence of the Chief
Justice. Such a state of mind is the natural
outcome of the circumstances which prevail
there. It is very kind on the part of the Court
authorities to allow all such souls to mix with
one another. This helps to reduce
the agony and discomfort which a soul
THE GREAT JiiYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
32
THE GREAT TRIAL
is likely to experience. Yama however
does not desire the new comers to be in a
position to know all the laws which are
applied in giving the final decision and does
not therefore allow these souls to mix with
spirits after the first twenty four hours are
complete. A shrewd soul can get almost com­
plete information about the rules in force there
during this period; but most souls while away
their time in talking on other subjects, little
knowing that after a day they will not be
allowed to talk with the spirits. In this case,
they are captives as this restriction is meant
to exclude them from the spirit world. In
other respects, however, they are completely
free, as they are even allowed to talk through
their mediums if they have any.
The number of such souls is very large as
all the souls who arrive there on a particular
day are not dealt with on the same day. The
arrears gradually accumulate and this makes
it necessary for the Court to work overtime.
Yama: The whole Court centres around the
pivot called the God of Death or Dharma Raj.
In the popular mind, he is the terrifying Yama.
He is said to have held this post of extreme
responsibility from the very beginning or the
evolution of mankind. He is an Eternal
Being, free from the coveted Moksha or
Merger. He ranks equally with the concep­
tion of God, the Creator. Some times he
33
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
interferes in the work of creation too, which
is the sole province of God. Similarly
God also if he thinks it expedient
interferes in the decisions given by Yama.
However, it must be stated that both
of them are free to hold their own if it becomes
a matter of principle. But naturally they
adopt the principle of ‘give and take’. Yama
has three rays: the one which we have already
described is the Death-Ray a most important
weapon in his hands. The other ray is the
Speed Ray which has the power or strength
of attracting and dragging any object to him.
The third and the final ray is the Life Rayr
which is used when the soul has to take birth.
In these three rays, one can see the extent and
importance of the powers vested in Yama.
The Life Ray has the power to give life to a
dead person. But Yama is very reluctant to use
his third ray and this often brings him in con­
flict with the Creator, who needs that ray for
his work of creation.
In Indian mythology, Yama is depicted as
the God without a heart. His sternness
however is not real but is the quality attributed
to him by the imagination of men. He is
really a kind-hearted god with a keen sense
of justice which would not be tempered by
any other consideration except the merits o f
the case. It is this ideal sense of impartiality
on the part of Yama which tends to give an
34
impression of Sternness in him. It is how­
ever true that he never grants life to a soul
who is to leave the world at a certain date.
Only in case when justice demands a revision
o f the term o f years granted he would change
his decision on that matter. Yama is the
most highly honoured god in this spirit-world.
Yet it is rather strange that in the land of idol-
worshippers, Yama has no place. He is also
the most hard working and active god and I
think he really ought to be worshipped by all
who believe in idols.
His circle of influence is very great in the
Patala, but this region should not be con­
founded with Hell. The region over which
the Yama rules is the Court in a wider sense.
With the so-called Hell, he has nothing to do.
Yama is the symbol of Energy and Power, as
he never seems to get tired; but he is all the
while quite fresh. His hours of work in the*
Court are from morning eight to evening
nine, with a few hours of rest during the day­
time. Even after that, he is expected to
discuss certain points with his chosen few.
The work is completed in an hour or so. In
the matter of judgment, he does not believe
in the English theory of expediting the
investigation of cases; but he thinks twice
before he gives out his mind, and instructs his
spirits to follow his advice. From all points
of view, he is regarded as the most suitable
THE GREAT TRIAL
35
divinity to handle this part of the administra­
tion in the spirit world. T o some minds it may
not appear that Yama. is impartial; but so far
ns I am able to judge, he tries to be' impartial
though he may bestow some favour in cases
where there'is sufficient.justification for being
so kind. Such actions are very often mis­
construed and give rise to the opinion that
in some cases proper justice is not
administered.
Delays: In the morning the Court opens,
that is, it-begins to function; there are, of
course, no doors to be thrown open. There
are some spirits, whose duty it is to allot
numbers to the new comers. The basis on
which these numbers are assigned is quite
logical. The number of the plane in which the
spirits of the souls reside is found out and out
o f souls of the same plane, the principle of
first come, first served, is adopted. Thus the
spirits of higher planes are taken up first for
their trial. It may be indicated here that the
number of new comers exceeds the number
•of cases disposed of during a particular day.
This is’ one of the most important causes of
•delay which-is proverbially long. I had a talk
with Yama himself and I suggested that there
should be more judges like Yama himself; but
he promptly said that equality of justice was to
be maintained at any cost. I added that a little
sacrifice could be permitted for the sake of
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
36
THE GREAT TRIAL
the convenience o f many souls^who were daily
eagerly awaiting their„ trial. Yama refused
however to discuss the matter any further
' and 1 had to keep quiet: It appears that the
question which confronts him is not one o f
the balance o f justice but of the balance o f
, power between such Yamas,’ though there may
be also the difficulty of justice being systematic
and uniform. To get a clear idea of the
whole procedure, we might take a concrete
5case. »
In the case of a soul, who comes to the
spirit world, the spirit, who allots numbers,
'finds out the plane in which.his spirit rests.-
Supposing he is in the fourth plane, his
rank will be low, as spirits of higher planes
will get precedence. Furthermore, among
the spirits of the same plane, all rush up to
. the spirit who allots numbers and quiet souls
who cannot get a number which is so necessary
to expedite the trial have to wait fairly long.
In this particular case, the poor soul had to
wait for nine long days to get his number.
Even after this, he found it very difficult to
get a footing, so to say, in the Court’s trial
place for eight days. The cases of souls o f
higher planes were conducted and after that the
cases of souls of the fourth plane were taken
up. Even then his rank was' somewhere near
two hundred. In a day about 20 normal
cases are disposed of and at this rate it took
37
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
therefore some 10 days more. After this
delay of about one month his trial began.
P
ro
tra
c
te
dTrial: After all these prelimina­
ries, the name of the soul is called out and
he is brought forward by the spirit-in-charge
to, we may say, the cage. If the soul con­
cerned has some relations or friends who can
further his case, they are asked to go to the
witness box. If the soul was a known man,
the group of philanthropist pleaders think
over the soul’s case and if they think it neces­
sary to plead, they request Yama to grant
permission to them for the purpose; and Yama
at once decides one way or the other whether
to grant the request or not. In this particular
case, the soul had many friends and was
therefore asked to select ten spirits to represent
him at the trial.
Further details of the trial will be taken up
subsequently. It is desirable here to
understand how the trial is protracted and
lengthened. Even after die above mentioned
preliminaries are gone through, the trial does
not commence at once, since the Yama orders
spirits who are in the Investigation Department
of the Court to collect all relevant facts about
the soul who is undergoing trial. This
investigation take some time; in some cases,
it requires a couple of days. After that, the
reading of the records is ordered. Many other
items are next taken in hand and Yama then
38
THE GREAT TRIAL
gives his judgement which appears like a
sermon, as it is couched-in moralising terms
and sounds like an exhortation. It may be
perhaps argued that such delays are
common enough in the ordinary courts of the
Earth and that there should be no reason to
grumble about it. But in view of the fact
that spirits take practically no time to perform
any act, it should be admitted that so much
delay is not justifiable and some speedy
means of conducting trials at the divine courts
should be devised.
Detailed Investigation and procedure at
the Court: There is a very well developed
'Investigation Department under the Court’s
control and supervision, and many intelligent
spirits find in it good scope for their ability.
As soon as Yama orders an investigation to
be conducted, the head of this department
sends out three spirits. One goes to the record
keeper and takes out as much material as
possible about the soul from the records. The
second spirit goes to the world below with an
elemental to get proper information about
the soul’s actions during the last birth. It may
seem rather queer that a good spirit should
form an alliance with a distinctly baser soul.
But, as we have already observed, spirits
have no physical powers and it would not be
feasible for them to carry on an investigation
without such help. Why should suck
39
elemental help in this matter was a point
undisclosed to me for a long time. Recently
however I had to mix with such an elemental
and he explained to me that he got absolute
freedom in return for service thus rendered to
the Court. These two spirits therefore go to
the place where the soul concerned ,used
to live. The elemental would enter into a
living person’s body and make him talk with
persons who knew many things about that
soul. In most cases, it is not so easy to enter
into someone’s body; and it takes a long time
before this can be accomplished. The
elemental gives all the information he has
gathered to the other spirit and they discuss
the points involved therein. Very often, they
do not agree and the differences between them
are responsible for some further unnecessary
delay in the commencement and conduct of
the trial. In this manner at any rate the
spirit who has gone to the world is able to
secure all necessary information about the
soul.
At this stage, it is necessary to give some
idea of the topics which are included in the
investigation. Yama requires information on
the following points.
In the first instance, it is necessary to know
whether the person had a normal end or
whether the end was due to some abnormal
cause. Here it should be made clear that a
40
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
THE GREAT TRIAL
death caused by bodily ailment or disease
constitutes a normal death; but if there was
no such disease and if the death was caused
by, say, mental weakness taking the form of
an accident, it constitutes an abnormal end.
Deaths due to suicide and murders stand in
a class by themselves. In case of a normal
death there is a very little to investigate; but
suicides and murders means a lot of trouble
to the investigators. The murderer has to be
found out and his name has to be recorded.
Analysis of Human Actions: Besides this,
there is another point that needs analysis and
investigation. The spirits have to make a classi­
fied list of the actions of the soul under trial
which were good and those-which were evil.
There is a further classification of deeds into
those which were done to benefit his own self
and those that were meant to benefit others.
Men during their lifetime perform so many
actions that a classification is not an easy task.
But to make an attempt is the only thing-
possible. Good deeds are composed in the
first place of honest beliefs and honest actions.
In some cases, it is difficult to define honesty
and class an action as honest; hence the use
of the word beliefs. There are very few
persons who can be strictly considered honest
and the investigating spirit is therefore
instructed to be lenient in his investigation o f
certain actions. Another important good
41
. THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
■action is the performance of d
u
ty. It can be
safely asserted that duty is one of the most
important factors in Yama's code of good
actions. Those persons who are able to do
their duty towards themselves and their
families are said to have used their tenure of
life in a most suitable manner. Some people
go a stage further in their pursuit of the
religion o f duty, and I am sure, they merit the
favour of Yama. Good co
n
d
u
ct of course
adds to one’s spiritual and material advance­
ment, though strangely enough it is given a
lesser weight than the performance of duty.
Sometimes a man whose conduct is not as
good as it ought to be gets on successfully, if
he has done his duty. It is known all over the
world that if you help others, God helps you,
•and some help rendered to others will always
stand in good stead to the person who'had the
foresight to do.so. This in general, should
in my view be the classification to be adopted
while reviewing good deeds by the spirits who
investigate.
Coming to bad actions or the darker side
o f humanity as such, a wilful wrong done to
others forms one of the most wicked actions
which make the souls who perform such deeds
liable to severe punishment. Next in magni­
tude come the deeds which are certainly bad
but are not the result of any predetermined
thought and therefore such u
n
p
re
m
e
d
ita
te
d
42
THE GREAT TRIAL
b
a
d d
eed
s to some extent are pardonable or
liable to lighter punishment only. Then we
com e to dishonesty which is a most common
vice among people who are less fortunately
placed, being on the lower rungs of the finan­
cial ladder. In cases of hand-to-mouth
existence, such dishonesty is to a large extent
permissible though it is never encouraged.
Bad conduct is severely dealt with if such mis­
deeds are not counterbalanced by some
good actions.
In this manner s
the investigators accumulate
all necessary information and return to the
spirit world.
The elemental of course goes to his own
plane, while the spirit goes to the Investiga­
tion Department, and reports all the facts to
the Head of the Department.
By this time the spirit who had gone to
the record keeper has also returned and makes
a statement to that effect.
A third spirit is now asked to go through
all those reports and then to consult the soul
about it. He should incorporate only those
items which receive the consent of the soul
concerned. In his recorded report he should
make some remarks about the points on which
there is a divergence of opinion between the
principal investigator and the soul. From
this it should be pretty clear that all this takes
43
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
a long time to be ready for presentation before
the Court.
Now I come to the actual procedure at
the Court.
The soul is just before Yama and the trial
begins when the Court is informed that the
investigation is at an end. A call is made
and there comes the prosecutor to open the
case. This spirit is not supposed to go through
the information received but he is only asked
to state the facts revealed by the record which
was made when the soul had parted from his
body. His remarks are rather general and
vague. This statement only serves the pur­
pose of putting Yama into touch with the
soul concerned. After this is over, the spirit
from the Investigation Department comes
forward with the information collected. He
in the first instance gives details about death
and discusses how far such an end was normal.
After devoting a long time to this topic, he
begins to scan the list of good deeds. Acts
which were done for his own good are taken
up first. A note is made of such good acts by
a spirit whose duty it is to record the proceed­
ings of all cases. The spirit of the Investigation
Department always gives explanations and
reasons for considering some acts as good or
normal as the case may be. Very often it so
happens that an act considered good by the
spirit may be classed as normal by Yama. It
44
THE GREAT TRIAL
hardly needs telling you that Yaraa’s view is
final and binding. The spirit next comes to
deeds which are good but which are done for
others. Controversy often arises on the
point where a particular act may be said to
be performed for others. In case of people who
believe in the joint family system, the concept
of the family being broader than the norma!
idea of a family, most acts are not included
in the group we are discussing. The underlying
idea is that those acts only which were done
for persons beyond the family circle should
come under this class. In this respect the
Hindus are at a considerable disadvantage as
from very old times their idea of a family is
quite different from the ideas of other nations.
After the good side in the list has been
analysed and presented, we find that Yama
orders the spirit to stop and asks the soul
concerned to give his view in a sentence. He
has to agree or disagree only and not to argue.
In most cases, the position is made so clear
that the soul has no other option but to agree
entirely.^ After this is done, the spirit again
resumes his discussion, dealing with the darker
side of the particular soul. Wilful acts are
discussed first and in respect of every such wil­
ful bad deed, Yama makes the soul agree with
him. O f course, every detail is all the while
recorded by the spirit in charge. After the
scrutiny of wilful acts, there comes the class
45
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
of acts which are bad but more or less
accidental in nature. Acts, not backed by a
motive, are to some extent pardonable and.
hence put in a different class by Yama. In
such deeds the consent of the soul is not
sought, for these deeds are not to be given
prime importance. The investigating spirit,
having now finished his survey of the soul’s
actions, takes Yama’s leave which is granted
in normal circumstances. Yama now requests
the honorary pleaders to speak on behalf o f
the soul. This is not always allowed as we
have seen before.. It is only in case where
the soul has achieved a certain status, that
this privilege is granted. Assuming that it is
granted, it depends on the will of the pleaders
to plead or not. They are requested not to
speak on all the deeds but only on such topics
as have not received full attention or which
have been totally ignored. Furthermore, they
can speak on the classification and often
about deeds which are on the border line.
They can throw doubts on the charges levelled
against the soul and in a general way give an
idea of the soul’s character and achievements.
In conclusion they can even plead for mercy
to Yama. This in a way completes the major
part of the proceedings, barring Yama’s deci­
sion in consultation with his Councillors.
No Defence: It must have appeared to my
readers that so far I have been speaking of
46
THE GREAT TRIAL
the official conduct o f the case; but I have
not neglected the other side, the defendant,
the soul. The fact is that the soul is never
asked to give any views of his own nor to
express disagreement or doubt the opinions
expressed by officials of the highest court. As
has been seen before, the soul is only asked
to agree or disagree when expressly desired
by Yama. It must be therefore pretty clear to
you that, all through, the souls plays a passive
part in the long-drawn proceedings. It may
successfully be argued that without hearing
both the sides, no decision can be correct and
just. This is correct in case of the imperfect
human agency; but in this divine tribunal,
the agency employed is certainly superhuman
if not divine. I,for one, believe that it is good
not to mix up the views of the higher agency
with those of the soul which is of an absolutely
different class. The human conception of
justice is in most cases rather more lenient than
the conception which Yama has and this it is
which very often dissatisfies most souls, who
are not adjudged as fit for promotion to a
higher plane. But it is agreed on all hands
that Yama wants to maintain a high standard
of justice which explains his unpopularity
among the lower orders of spirits and souls.
The Ruling: After all that was to be
investigated has been put forward by the
officials and the honorary pleaders, Yama
47
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
begins his speech or sermon whichever you
choose to call it. In the first instance, he
expresses his regret for causing delay and
the resultant hardship. He then congratulates
the soul for his good deeds and devotes some
time over good deeds done for others. This
part of his speech makes the soul feel that
Yama Raj has a soft comer for him, little
knowing that the remaining part is a caustic
sermon. Then Yama comes to the darker side
of his life. For accidental bad deeds he merely
warns the soul, the warning being couched
in more or less in mild terms. Bad acts which
were done wilfully are examined by him in
full details and he makes sure that the soul
realises the enormity of his misdeeds. In
case the soul does not realise it, Yama asks
the soul to justify his contention with proper
proofs. In such rare cases only does Yama
himself cross-examine the obstinate soul. So
far he has only examined the facts of the case.
But now, he comes to the critical part of his
decision. In the beginning he explains the
doctrine of good acts counter-balancing bad
deeds and then tells him that in his case there
is either an excess of good deeds over bad
ones or the contrary. If the good deeds out­
number the bad, he assumes that the soul is
properly trained up and therefore he need not
be detained any longer; but if the excess is
the other way, he gets wild with rage and he
48
begins to advise, scold, reproach or denounce
the soul as strongly as possible. The soul who
is hearing Yama gets frightened and invariably
requests Yama to pardon his shortcomings
and misdeeds. But the god having assumed
a wild form refuses to hear anything and
proceeds to give his final judgment. Honorary
pleaders can help the soul as they have the
power to ask Yama to give his decision the
next day. Assuming that the soul concerned
had an excess of good deeds, Yama states:
“ Mr. X has lived his tenure of life successfully
and has not proved a burden to mankind, but
has in a small measure helped others over and
above securing a fund of happiness for himself
and his family. He should be lifted from his
present plane and be posted in a higher plane
as a reward for his fruitful existence. His
unison should take place on the 2 1st day from
to-day; he should come to the Court next week
for getting a permit for a new birth” . In the
other case, in which the bad deeds predominate
over good ones, the following would be the
contents of the decision:— “ Mr. X, has wasted
all the time allotted to him to show his worth
and in a general way has proved a burden to
his relations and friends, nay to the whole
society, His conduct has proved to be far
from satisfactory; he has allowed good
opportunities to slip away and therefore he
should suffer for his actions. The Court does
THE GREAT TRIAL
49
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
not desire to penalise him, but it only orders
him to remain in the old plane and
at is necessary that a better uae of
the new birth should be made. The soul
should present himself after 41 days for a new
birth permit” .
A
ssign
m
en
t of plan
es: The Court is said
to have fulfilled its function when the decision
is given by the Yama in council. After that,
the assignment of planes is made by the
Assignment Department which is controlled
by Yama. The soul should, as soon as
possible, go there and inform them clearly of
the decision given. The spirit in charge refers
to the records of decisions and then gives the
name and number of the plane assigned to
the sojil. He also sends a spirit to show the
plane to the soul so that he may find it easy
to reach there. He is then asked to return in
a reasonably short time as he is not supposed
to stay there before unison and the new birth-
permit is required as a sort of an entrance pass.
New Birth Order: After the lapse o f the
necessary period, the soul presents himself
to the Court for a new birth order. As usual,
it takes some time before Yama can give
attention to the tried soul. Furthermore, even
when Yama attends to him, he has to inform
the Creator about it as it is He who has to
provide for him. After the necessary
information is obtained, and after it is
50
THE GREAT TRIAL
ascertained that provision can be made, Yama
asks the soul to choose from certain specified
types o f births. He however gives no
guarantee of giving the birth selected by him.
Very often, the option given is such that it
tends to become a Hobson’s choice. The
riddle often is incapable of solution and
therefore Yama gives plenty of time to the
soul to decide; even consulting people of the
world through mediums is allowed. The
idea is that Yama does not want to bear the
odium of having given a bad birth. Somehow
or other, the selection is made and it is now
for Yama to approve of it or force on him
a birth which in his opinion is appropriate.
In very many cases, Yama agrees but there
seems to be no definite basis on which he
decides this problem. In my talk with him,
he revealed that approval of a soul’s choice is
a reward for his good conduct at the Court.
Interval between Successive Births: It may
be observed that rebirth does not necessarily
take place at once,. In normal cases, a year
elapses between death and the new birth. It
must be made clear however that there are
instances in which souls have not been given
a new birth for years together. The rules
which govern the determination of this
interval are quite unknown; but it appears
that, in case a suitable birth is not found, the
matter may be left over and arrears are in
51
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
that case disposed of after some years.
Further, it may happen that the soul may be
progressing very slowly and even though it is
not fit enough for salvation, it requires some
long rest and rebirth may be consequently
delayed.
Unison: Ordering of a new birth marks the
completion of the proceedings at the Court,
and it is thought fit by Yama at this juncture to
allow the soul to be united with his spirit-
identity for the period during which the soul
has to wait, as rebirth does not take place at
once. The spirit of the soul is asked to come
down to Yama’s region and as it is the will
of Yama, the soul and the spirit get united
into a greater soul. He feels much happier
than before by being in touch with his
counterpart after a lapse of say fifty or sixty
years. Unison is in a way a normal incident;
but rare as such incidents are, they tend to
be abnormal. After this happens, the spirit
is made to forget his past life so that he may
take more interest in the soul’s latest life. It
may be observed that a spirit can at the most
be expected to remember only a few incidents
of his past life, and that too for one birth. After
this unison, the greater soul is entitled to oc­
cupy his plane for a short time. This concludes
our survey of the progress of the soul through
Yama’s Court. In the next chapter we shall
see him in his plane forming an integral part
52
THE GREAT TRIAL
o f the same.
Qualities needed for progress: If the reader
has carefully followed the preceding pages,
he must have gathered that the qualities which
help us in the world of the living also help us
to weather the storms of the trial more easily.
Divine concepts of good qualities are in a
general sense the same as the human concep­
tion o f such virtues. In India it is believed
that idol worship helps one’s soul to achieve
progress; but it may be stated here that such
worship bears no fruits except that it may
prove a sort of a check on certain baser desires
having sway over the reason of such persons.
The chief factor which leads to spiritual and
material advancement of souls is the standard
of duty which has developed in a particular
soul. The higher the standard of duty main­
tained, the larger is the reward reserved for
that soul. The concept of duty is not only
an important factor, but broadly speaking it is
the only factor which helps one in his spiritual
march towards salvation. It is said that in
very old times many advanced souls used to
leave worldly connections and confine
themselves in some lonely place for th'eir
spiritual advancement; but if I may be
permitted to express my opinion, I must state
that those souls have not made use of their
surroundings; but, having gone out of their
world, they only made their life of such a
53
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
nature that important problems which
face others do not harass them. They have
thus shirked the burden of duty and the reward
is reduced to that extent. It should not be
misunderstood that other good actions have
no effect, as all things great and small have a
gradual and cumulative effect, in deciding the
usefulness or otherwise of a being’s existence.
Special Treatment. Mediums and Instru­
ments: So far we have spoken of normal
cases. I must acknowledge that there are
no prejudices or predelictions in Yama’s
Court; but in some cases, certain privileges
are granted to souls awaiting their trial if they
have rendered some useful service. This
mode of tempering justice with mercy is in no
way a reflection on Yama’s impartiality. The
special treatment is a well earned reward after
many years of work in the field of spiritualism.
Mediums, who are not frauds, are treated with
mercy, but no special help is given as regards
their spiritual advancement. But mediums
who are not only genuine but also have not
turned their abilities into professional channels
are held in esteem by the Court, and in giving
the decision, some help is given either in the
shape of reduction of punishment or in giving
a better plane with a suitable birth, which
would give them further opportunities to
reveal more about the unknown or mis­
understood world of spirits. Instruments
54
however receive no benefits or special treat­
ment since they are held to have helped their
mediums only and not the authorities. I may,
therefore, give a hint to would-be spiritualists
that if at all they take up spiritualism, they
should do it without any idea of reward. Let
them have the ideal of service to humanity
and despise the idea of any personal gain;
otherwise disappointment will be in store for
them.
THE GREAT TRIAL
55
CHAPTER IV
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
Location— Presiding Deities:
First Plane: The Patala— Is it Hell?— The
Court— Elementals— Activity of spirits— Haunting.
Second Plane: The Bhuloka— Spirits of low
order— No activity— Freedom from control.
Third Plane: The Tapaloka— Spirits of middle
class— Control— Attendance at trials— Collective
actions— Touch with the World.
Fourth Plane: The Chandraloka— Contented
spirits— Freedom to move— Touch with higher
powers— Yama'a visits.
Fifth Plane: The Suryaloka— Ambitious spirits— A d­
ministrative work— Energiser— Presiding deity.
Sixth plane: The Swargaloka— Happy souls— Cold
spirits— Loss of touch with the world— Loss of
memory.
—— Seventh Plane: The Devaloka— God-like souls— No
touch with mediums— No activity— Rest.
Location: So far we have spoken of the
spirits and their life at the Court. In this
chapter other phases of the life of spirits will
he taken up. It is at least well known in India
that the world of spirits is divided into seven
planes and in the western world too, the idea
of such planes or stages is becoming current.
The man in the world of the living does not
know for certain the number of planes in the
spirit-world; and very often speculation is
56
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
rife on that matter. So far as I know however
there are only seven stages, created for spirits
o f all types. Even accepting this fact, there
is further much difficulty, about naming these
planes or stages. In view of the fact that no
official names exist, the best way is to allocate
numbers to these stages. But, I have come
across Indian names for these stages and for
the purpose of this book, I have selected seven
names which incidentally indicate the nature
o f each plane.
Each of these planes is just an expanse of
space like Yama’s Court. The different stages
have an area according to their needs. In
distributing space, the higher plane is given a
smaller area than the lower plane, because
there are always fewer spirits in such stages.
It is just like having more third class carriages
and few upper class ones in a railway train.
These areas are just a few hundred miles
from the living world on the outer border
o f the atmosphere. It hardly needs any
reiteration that spirits do not require any thing
like the earth to support them in space. They
live in space and can move on any part of
the world. But they cannot move over any
higher plane than the one allotted to them in
the spirit world.
Presiding Deities: It is a very natural
question to ask about the arrangement for
controlling spirits who reside in these planes.
57
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
A very elaborate system for control is devised
to meet this primary need. Every plane or
loka has its own deity, who is entrusted with
the work of controlling spirits in general and
making it practicable for spirits in administra­
tive departments to control them. If there is
any mismanagement, the deity in charge will
be held responsible. The rules of control are
not the same in all lokas; they vary to a large
extent. In some stages, the control is
nominal; in others it is pronounced, and in
others still, complete. The principles which
decide the extent of the control will be dealt
with when we come to a detailed analysis of
those stages. There is some conflict of opinion
amongst us about the term ‘Deity* and I in
my memorandum submitted to Yama Raj,
suggested the word, spirit-control. As usual,
however, he was not prepared to accept the
suggestion; but only very recently he uses
the word, while using the English language.
It may be pointed out here that the language
spoken depends upon the language of the
spirit concerned, and higher spirits are
expected to master all important languages.
W e shall now commence a detailed analysis
of these different planes.
FIRSTPLANE — THE PATALA.
The Patala: The first loka is known as the
Patala. The word signifies the lower regions
58
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
and it is in fact a region for spirits
of inferior calibre. Some may imagine
it to be a physically lower plane; but that idea
is wrong altogether as all planes are more or
less only a few hundred miles away from the
earth. It should be noted that the Patala is
not the world of Satan but an integral part
of the whole spirit world. In this region, there
are two broad divisions one forming the
Yama’s Court and the other, the real Patala.
It is this part which is meant for spirits o f a
low order. In the other part, all souls have
to go for their trial and to that extent, it is
not a real visit to Patala or to the first plane.
T o my mind, the Court is absolutely a different
stage, but it is accidentally merged into the
Patala Loka.
It may appear strange to some persons that
Yama should create such a hybrid plane and
a few years back, I also shared that view. But
now as I have come in touch with the internal
organisation of Yama’s Court, I can safely
assert that it is so mixed up in order to get
the advantage of the lower spirits in the work
of investigation while conducting cases in the
Court. The mixing up, though accidental, is
thus to a certain extent desirable, and these
two absolutely different types of planes form
one of the most important regions in the spirit
world.
Is it Hell: Patala Loka to an Indian mind
59
is a plane associated with something unpala­
table in its atmosphere. Even among the
English people, they regard such a region as
belonging to Satan. There is a belief that it
is the region reserved for the worst type of
souls. It is rather strange to find such a
belief current among Indians in particular.
If an Indian or better still a Hindu comes to
know that his relative is in Patala, he feels
as if that person’s soul is transferred to Hell,
a region of trouble and oppression. But to
remove the misconception, I would like to
state that no Hell whatsoever exists in the
spirit world. But, after all, Hell is a relative
term and though we may term the first plane
as Patala to distinguish it from Hell, the first
plane is the worst stage to which a' soul can
be sent and to that extent it may very broadly
be regarded as a kind of Hell.
The Court: W e have in the preceding
•chapter spoken of the Court as far as the
subject of trial was concerned. It is now
•desirable to give an idea of the Court not as
the Divine Tribunal but as a Plane in the
spirit world. It has about the same area as
the other planes; but the peculiarity of this
region lies in the fact that there are no
permanent residents and all those who come
go away, as soon as their trial is over. It does
not thus have the appearance of an ordinary
plane; but it has that .office-look which is
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
60
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
completely absent in other planes. The
number of officials who frequent this plane is
also large. The importance o f this plane
cannot be denied as it is also the centre of the
Administration Department of the spirit-
world. A detailed review of this department
will be taken up later on, as it has no direct
bearing on this chapter.
Elementals: There are two broad classes
into which the spirits residing in the Patala
Loka can be divided. In the first class come
spirits of the ordinary type. These spirits have
usually an inferior brain power and they are
in this plane only on that account. All of
them are, in my esteem, good people and I
do not know why they should suffer because
they have a poor brain. Is it not the mistake
of the Creator* to have brought such souls
into existence? At any rate, once created;
they should be given favourable treatment
and there should be some device to improve
their lot. The other class consists of spirits
who have very powerful and fertile brains; but
the only trouble with them is that the power
was misdirected and they reaped the fruits of
their actions by being assigned to Patala Loka.
*A s it appeared to me a great presumption to criticise
the Creator, here as also later on, I always made it a point
to draw Sir Arthur's attention and to ask him whether he
■would not like to modify the sentence. But he was firm
and would not give up the position he had taken up, and
as the book was his work, 1 have retained such passages,
as dictated.
61
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
These spirits are very intelligent and have.a
creative genius, but all such power has been
used for bad deeds. Being base souls, they
are called elementals. These intelligent spirits
who use their abilities in such a wrong way,
are not able to proceed any further; they
have to stay in this region as long as they
continue to act in the same wicked manner.
Spirits with a very low order of brain are also
called elementals; but, to my mind they should
not be so called because the word ‘elemental'
has a bad odour about it, in so far as it
suggests wilful wickedness or misdemeanour
on the part of the spirits concerned.
Activity of Spirits: In every plane, spirits
reside; but their activities are very often quite
different and a study of their activities in
different planes is desirable. But we will here
confine ourselves to the activities of elementals
only.
Elementals who have not brains are by
their very nature dull and usually not ready
to do any work even when they were in their
physical existence. While alive, they ere
more or less idle and are in a way dependent
on others and thus obviate the need for
supporting themselves. In the spirit world
too, they never move out of their dens as it
were and they have made it a point not to
attend the Court. If they attended it, it would
help them to progress further; but little as
62
their minds work, they do not realise their
ow n interests. Such spirits do not like to go
to mediums even, as they are very often not
called by them and even when called, they
fail to give any good account of themselves
on the Board. Some however maintain that
if the mediums used automatic writing, these
spirits are able to manage much better; but
I personally hold that whatever the mode of
invoking them, they fail to satisfy the person
concerned. They only move about in th$ir
plane and are quite harmless to living beings
and other spirits. They have not got the
power to haunt and therefore are not at all in a
position to harm others.
Now coming to the second class of
elementals, they are endowed with very strong
mental powers, and their abilities are much
greater than those of the spirits in the other
planes. Furthermore, they have some pecu­
liar force in them which is usually absent in
others. This force is of such a nature that
it serves the needs of physical energy, and
it is because of this force that they are able
to do substantial work which others cannot
do. They always like to go to mediums
provided they find the same base nature in
them which they themselves possess. If a
good hearted medium were to call such a
spirit, perhaps he may not come at all and
even if he came he would not like the medium.
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
63
Good mediums and spiritualists do not there­
fore usually come in contact with elementals
and some of them on that account very often
doubt the existence of the elementals altoge­
ther. All elementals are however very keen to
keep themselves in touch with the happenings
in the world through their mediums. Their
second activity is called ‘service to the court’
because, a large number of elementals are
employed in the investigation of all the cases
that are before the court. It may appear rather
strange ,that the divine court should employ
the agency of elementals who are base and not
worthy of performing such duties. It has
been put forward by some responsible officers
of Yama’s Court that good spirits have not
got the necessary power of carrying on the
work of investigation themselyes. It requires'
spirits of higher calibre and such spirits can
be easily found among the elementals. It may
be argued perhaps that the spirits with good
brains can be found in the sixth and the seventh
planes; but it may be pointed out that their
powers are nominal and useless for the work
in view. In this work the elemental proves
very useful indeed to the Court. It is with
his help that the administration of justice
becomes possible. If the elementals are
faithful in discharging their duties, they are
given some reward either in the shape of
a good birth or in the shape of giving a post
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
64
in the administrative department; but in no
case, is a higher plane assigned to them. That
can be done only if the base nature has
improved even to a very small extent. This
activity however does not fully occupy all the
elementals and master brains require some­
thing more to do.
Haunting: A large number of intelligent
spirits of this plane therefore indulge in an
activity called haunting. This term is not a
happy one in so far as it does not give a correct
idea of such activities. But even after long
deliberation I have failed to find a better word
than haunting. There are two broad divisions
o f this type of actions. In one class, the spirits
concerned do not materialise, but carry on
their work through their mediums. Such
haunting is to a large extent harmless, though
cases have been found where such haunting
has resulted in actual harassment. Thus a
spirit, while talking on the Board, gives some
threat to the medium or his client, and very
often such threats so impress themselves on
the mind of the medium that the spirit is
successful in getting his desires fulfilled. Thus
I know of a case, in which a medium was
compelled to kill a certain person only because
his spirit asked him to do so under the threat
o f death. Sometimes, elementals, who are
fond of talking and arguing, impersonate
certain spirits or are even bold enough to dis­
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
65
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
close their name and make the medium talk
■with them. If on any ground such talks are
discouraged, they employ threats. It may be
contended that those threats if ignored would
not materialise, but such contention is wrong
because the elementals have larger powers as
regards materialisation than other spirits.
This leads us to the second type of haunting
where elementals resort to materialisation. The
spirit usually has one medium and both of
them have established very cordial relations
to their mutual advantage. Such mediums do
not use any of the modes of invoking spirits
mentioned in a previous chapter. They have
such an elemental under their clutches, though
this subjection usually involves a lot of trouble
and waiting; but once the relationship is
established, the spirit becomes very tame and
acts as a tool for the medium. Thus, many
base acts are done through the instrumentality
of the elemental and those who suffer from
the mischievous pranks played by an elemental
consider it as haunting. They may think that
the spirit is unnecessarily troubling them,
little knowing that the spirit, being a tool, acts
according to the wishes of his medium. But
a natural question— What benefit would the
elemental derive from being a tool of such a
medium? The problem was difficult of solu­
tion to some of my friends and to me; but,
• as I came into contact with an important
66
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
elemental, he told me that if there was no work,
there could be no elementals, as they always
required some food for their brains. If they
cannot find any work, they prefer to act as
tools rather than idle away their time. The
philosophy of the elementals is thus worth
appreciating, but, the only drawback is that
they misdirect their energies.
This plane is in a way a place where there
is some thing more than democracy, as no
government exists for them. Yet, Yama Raj
usually keeps himself in touch with *the
happenings in this corner of the spirit-world-
SECOND PLANE — THE BHU-LOKA
The Bhu-Loka: From Patafa, we come to-
the Bhu-loka or the second plane in the spirit
world. It may be mentioned here that these
planes are near each other and there is little
change of atmosphere except in the Patala.
This region is called Bhuloka and that too for
a good reason. Spirits who are assigned to-
this plane are full of earthly desire and, if not
all, most of them are dominated by the influ­
ence of the.baser instincts of mankind. It
should not be understood however from this-
that all who have the fortune or misfortune
to stay here are wicked, because after all one:
factor does not decide a case.
Spirits of Low Order: These general
remarks do not convey the real type of these:
67
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
-spirits and their qualities. In the first place,
many of them are below the average, so far
as the measure of their intelligence is con­
cerned. Some of them have even not the
capacity to do any act which can be regarded
as substantial; others, who possess some
powers, are bent upon enjoying all through
and lead a useless existence and in my opinion
are a burden to humanity. Then, there are
those, who are fairly clever and are able to
put in some work, but who refuse to do
anything except certain things, which satisfy
their baser instincts. Such is the state of Bhu-
loka. The last type of spirits are a danger to
the spirit-world and their bodies on the Earth
are a striking monument of passion.
No activity: In a general way we have
glanced through the personnel with which we
are concerned at present. The natural desire
o f an investigator would be to get an idea of
their activities, and I should also give a natural
reply. I should ask him a question. What
would such a person do on Earth? He would
certainly lead a life without any activity if he
could get his bread somehow or other. Such
spirits never care about the administration of
the spirit-world nor do they go to hear trials,
which are otherwise popular with spirits of
other planes. The chief reason is that they
have never thought of progress in their lives.
Most of them prefer to do nothing rather than
68
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
go to hear trials, much less to do any active
work in the court, or any other department.
There is one thing which would interest them,
but as that desire or passion cannot be satisfied
in the spirit world, they are very often restless.
They would like to be called by mediums if
they can find in them some satisfaction of their
desire. I suppose you have not been able to
call such spirits, because their company is
bound to have some undesirable influence on
all who come in contact .with them.
Freedom from Control: The ways of the
spirit-world are different from those of the
world of the living and the method of adminis­
tration in this Ioka is a case in point. These
spirits, who have not got a developed sense of
responsibility, are given up as incorrigible. I
had a discussion with Yama himself and he
agreed that some means to improve them were
necessary but he held that certain means were
already in force at the present moment to
achieve the purpose; I have however failed to
find any such means in force. To my utter
amazement, he told me that they have a
control in the shape of bitter experience and
bad rebirths. He was further of opinion that
they showed some improvement only when
they learnt by actual experience. The divine
authorities have thus thought it fit to let them
exist without practically any control, and allow
them to do as they pleased. But one thing
69
more and that is that Shree Laxmidevi or the
■Goddess of Wealth is supposed to look after
this plane in a general way, though she is
strictly forbidden to control any spirit under
•any circumstances. From my experience,
however, I can say with confidence that her
presence in this loka is to a great extent
responsible for making good spirits out of
bad.
The Yama in Council has decided that
spirits on the border line should not be assigned
to this plane because the company of other
spirits makes it impossible for them to improve
and the chances of being dragged lower are
many. This ruling is responsible for the
sparse population there.
THIRD PLANE — THE TAPALOKA
The Tapaloka: W e now leave behind the
lower strata of society in the spirit world. W e
•do not yet jump over however to the cream,
but we come to the typical middle class. This
region which is just near the Bhuloka is called
the Tapaloka. Tapa in popular parlance
means penance and to some, it may appear
that it is not a suitable name because there is
no relation between tapa and the spirits of
this stage. But, let me remove the illusion;
the world “ Tapa” is used in the sense of good-
natured. It is certainly true that people in
this plane are much better than those in the
70
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
previous two Iokas, described above. Further­
more, this loka is famous for its system and
method. Every activity is perfectly organised
and well managed. I, for one, believe that
this plane is most suitable for a person who
loves an active and useful life and we very
often find some very intelligent persons in
this loka.
Spirits of middle class: So far we had a
hurried bird’s-eye view of the plane in general.
W e shall now take up the detailed analysis of
some interesting features which are important
for our purpose. Most of the spirits who
come here or rather who are assigned to this
plane are of the middle class. But middle
class, according to what standard? I feel there
are no hard and fast rules about it and the
only way to get an idea of such a variable
standard is to study a few lives of spirits who
are found in this stage. At this stage it is not
desirable to enter into a lengthy discussion
about such cases; but if my readers have any
faith in my judgment, I may state that there
are three factors viz. character, capital and
capacity, which go a long way in deciding a
case. The authorities are always inclined to
put most souls in this class and that is why
we find the largest number of spirits in this
plane. When deciding, it is very easy to class
a soul middle-class by asserting that one or
the other of the three factors is absent or not
7
1
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
properly developed. To some it may appear
that the world consists of many souls who
would be classed in this group; but I feel if
only one of these three qualities is taken into
consideration, the number of such 'spirits
would be fairly small. As it is, I think, it is
a faulty' method of judging persons, because
it is very rare that such a combination of three
attributes can be found. But divine methods
are also very rigid like those of governments in
the world of the living and it is no use finding
fault with it. I very often wonder whether
God or the Creator feels ashamed at finding
so many of His products turning out to be
merely mediocre. If I were in His position,
1 would certainly feel ashamed. However, it
is no business of mine to cast any reflections
upon such a Being.
Control: W e have seen that a vast majority
of spirits axe forced to live in this plane.
Naturally the problem of administration is
also complex. The spirits of this, plane are
usually of a good nature and most of them
are well behaved. The rules for them are not
rigid and only exceptional cases are under
strict control. These spirits are allowed to go to
good mediums, and whenever they go to a new
medium *they are' enjoined to report the fact
to their head-spirit who is responsible for every
100 spirits. Further they should return home
before 12 midnight. In case they fail to do so,
72
adequate reasons have to be given without any
demand being made by their head. These are
the main points as regards control and super­
vision. So far as the official reports go, the
conduct of the majority is more than
satisfactory. Yama thinks that this region does
not require a strong control and this work
is therefore assigned to the Goddess of Learn­
ing or to put it in the Indian fashion, Shree
Saraswati Devi. She is a goddess with a
marked personality and a strong driving force.
She is able to control the whole plane very
well and yet maintain extremely cordial
relations with most of the souls entrusted to
her care. Her kindness is also worthy of note,
in so far as she tries to promote many spirits to
a higher plane by being liberal as regards the
attribute of intelligence.
Attendance at Trials: Devi Shree Saraswati
always makes it a point to impress the import­
ance of hearing trials upon every new recruit
individually. As we have remarked some­
where previously in this book, this idea o f
hearing trials is appreciated by the authorities
in particular. To add to this, many spirits o f
this loka are themselves very keen on hearing
trials, as they want to improve their lot by
getting some good out of it. When I died, as
Arthur, and came to the spirit world, this idea
did not appeal to me on various grounds. But
after a few years’ stay, I feel that in the absence
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
73
THE GREAT MYSTERY O F LIFE BEYOND DEATH
o f any other agency to impart knowledge, hear­
ing of trials was the only method available for
self-improvement. I suggested that, if some
sort of a school could be started, the purpose
would be served in a much shorter space of
time, because, after all, trials are unduly long
and tiresome. But the reply I received was
-quite appropriate because it contained the
following sentence:—
“Your idea is based on a misconception in
so far as the Court trials are designed to keep
the spirits engaged for a much longer time
than it is possible to do in a school. Too
much leisure is not desirable” .
Collective actions: If I may be permitted to
make a sort of a sweeping statement,
mediocre people are never sure of themselves
and would always flock together. They can
<lo things properly if somebody leads them, as
they lack the essential quality of leadership.
These remarks are designed to justify their
attitude of collective actions. I have even seen
spirits who take with them a score more, even
when they go to a medium and when asked
-questions by the audience, they consult each
other. When some big problem confronts
them, they cannot decide for themselves. In
a way I appreciate their method because after
all, a larger number of poor brains can find
out some way out of the wood when an
isolated brain fails to make any headway.
74
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
Touch with the world: Maya or worldly
desires are things difficult to conquer and we
know of cases where people who have
renounced the world often become victims of
such an irresistible lure. Some people are the
easy prey of these worldly desires and even
when they die, unfulfilled desires dominate
their life in the next world too. If a minute
analysis were made in various planes it would
be apparent that people of the Tapaloka are
invariably keen on maintaining a strong
contact with the world, which they like most.
Thus weaker mediums would always find that
it is very easy to establish contact with them in
so far as very strong co-operation is exhibited
by spirits. I.myself am in favour of such an
attitude on the part of spirits; but those who
are particularly successful in the World of the
Dead are of opinion that such attachment on
their part is detrimental to their own interests.
I however fail to agree; because if they talk
or make merry with the living, it should add
to their efficiency and influence their conduct.
More particularly spirits in the administrative
department might well be in touch with the
world if they have reliable mediums.
“ Reliable” is a word which created dispute
among some officials, but I prefer to be mute
on the point. Some are inclined to believe
that it is a most unfriendly act to call spirits
whom we know; but whatever may be the
75
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
arguments, I feel invoking them does not
drag them down. Perhaps the chances are
just the other way.
FOURTH PLANE — THE CHANDRALOKA
The Chandra Loka: Chandra means the
“ Moon” and the name is particularly suitable,
in so far as it gives an idea of calmness which
is so characteristic of the Moon’s light. This
loka is just near the Tapaloka and it is large
enough to make the existence of spirits more
comfortable than in other lower planes. One
may ask why?’ W e have already left behind
the middle class and we are in the midst of
the upper strata of spirits and naturally they
get better treatment. The density of popula­
tion is much smaller here than in the
preceding lokas because it is very difficult to
cross the cordon of the middle class. Only
those who are extremely fortunate do not
stagnate in the Tapa-loka. Some spirits feel
that the conditions of this loka are so tempting
that one would like to remain in this plane for
ever. Even I agree to a certain extent, because
the only serious drawback is that the whole
atmosphere is incompatible with the cherishing
of any ambition.
Contented Spirits: To come to the
characteristics of the spirits of this loka, the
most striking one is their contented nature.
Somehow or other, as soon as a spirit is
76
promoted from a lower plane to this plane,
he gets such an amount of satisfaction that it
kills his desires completely. I do not know
why they should be satisfied so soon. When
they are in the third plane, they perpetually
grumble about bad treatment and particularly
about the whole administrative machinery;
but soon after their grievances are redressed,
they begin to admire it, while people like me
would never get complete satisfaction and
would always have some grievances and
complaints to make. Some persons have
always shown their inclination towards
contentment and in the opinion of the
authorities, such persons are regarded as
worthy of further promotion and good rebirth.
Freedom to move: In this Ioka, people are
very quiet and calm and therefore there is an
absence of any elaborate system of regulations.
Chandra-loka spirits are allowed complete
freedom of movement and they are at liberty
to go to their mediums any time they choose.
In this respect, this Ioka compares very
favourably with the third plane. It may be
pointed out that no misuse of such liberty is
allowed and be it said to the credit of the spirits
too, that most of them give a satisfactory
account of their conduct. I have met spirits
from this plane who are so fond of their
mediums on the Earth that they sometimes
stay with them for some days. Such an action
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES .
77
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
■would be seriously dealt with in other planes;
but here no notice is taken of it.
Touch with higher powers: It has been
remarked more than once that the general
culture and circumstances of the spirits here
are much better than can be expected in lower
planes. Naturally spirits with better powers
of reasoning are in a position to take more
care about their personal matters. But as we
know, the sources of information regarding
advancement, both spiritually and materially,
are not confined to this loka. Therefore intel­
ligent spirits always make it a point to be in
touch with souls who have been particularly
successful in the two worlds. ‘Higher Powers’
do not mean divine powers, but only spirits
who have achieved something, which can be
called substantial. It may be further added
that such contact is easy to establish because
higher spirits are always eager to ameliorate
the condition and solve the troubles of others.
Vama’s Visits: The problem of control is
non-existent in this plane, and as a matter of
fact it is nobody’s region. But, after all, even
good spirits might raise some issues and
therefore, some presiding god has been deemed
desirable. But those who worked there, being
fond of ruling, created much unrest and since
the last 10,000 years, Yama has removed
Kalka or the Goddess of Destruction, and he
himself goes to Chandraloka, not regularly
78
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
but pretty often. He has won the admiration
of the calm and quiet spirits by his clear cut
methods of doing business. When we were
talking of the Court, we often remarked about
the Yama Raj being a strict and impartial
judge; but he is here in a different form
altogether. He looks all the more merciful and
invariably tempers justice with mercy. Qne
may well ponder over this change of mood, but
the reason is not far to seek; in the former case,
he is a judge, while in the latter, he is to look
after the spirits who are entrusted to his care
and naturally there is a change in his angle of
vision.
FIFTH PLANE — THE SURYALOKA
The Surya Loka: The history of this plane
is one which is characterised by the most
leading events either in the world of the dead,
or the world of the living, and all really big
people are therefore to be found in this plane.
W e shall come to the details later on; for the
present, the scope is' limited to the general
outline of the plane. What does Surya signify?
In the oriental terminology, it is the all-pervad­
ing Sun; the English equivalent is not as
forceful as the Indian word. Surya at once
gives an idea of power, vitality, strength and
brilliance. So much for the title. The popula­
tion in this plane is very scanty and only runs
into thousands and the reason is quite obvious.
79
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
W e have seen before that three factors decide
the classification of the soul into middle or
higher class. The qualification which is so
essential in this loka is absent in a large
majority of cases, and that is ambition. At
the same time, it holds good that the absence
of the other three factors may turn the scale
the other way. Only a spirit who has the other
three factors in due proportions and, over
and above that, has some strong ambition can
aspire to be placed in the fifth plane.
W e were talking of the nature of spirits in
general who could dream of entering into
the Surya-loka. This loka is not near other
planes but is at a considerable distance and
this shows the importance attached to this
plane. The conditions of existence ore not as
calm as we experience in the Chandra loka.
On the contrary, we are in an atmosphere of
bustle and activity which is so pleasing to
spirits of my type, and, perhaps, to my
mediums too. In a way those, who feel like
working, find themselves stationed in an
admirable place. There is plenty of work to
do and I can quote you cases where, due to
scarcity of workers, people from the fourth
plane were admitted among us.
Ambitious Spirits: W e have already spoken
of the qualifications which entitle a spirit to
be in the fifth plane; but a careful analysis of
the persons here gives us an idea of their
80
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
ambitious nature. You will not find a single
spirit here doing nothing. Everybody is found
thinking and devising his or her own plans.
Their ambitions are of two types— one regard­
ing their own betterment in the spiritual world
and then in the material existence down
below. The second is their fervent desire to
help other spirits even at the cost of their own
interests. But one may be anxious to know
whether any such ambitions have been realised..
I can but give a rough idea about it, because I
have never made any serious attempt to ascer­
tain the exact number of cases in which such
desires were realised. Yet, I am on sure grounds
when I say that at least 40 per cent of good
ambitions are realised. What constitutes
ambition? Bad or wicked desires are not
regarded ambitions at all; only desires backed
by good motives and sound canons of conduct
are classed as ambitions. O f these too, those
acts inspired by a spirit of public service are
regarded as pure ambitions and in the long
run, it pays the spirit who does cherish such
aims. The investment is sound; yet it is not
agreeable to many because there is no
definite reward promised, and a detailed
survey would indicate that pure ambitions
are very rare.
Administrative W ork: Every form of
government requires persons to operate the
system which is planned out by persons at
81
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
the top. In the world of, the living, we find ‘
that recruitment of officers is made by competi­
tive examinations which are so designed as
to test the general ability of the persons
required. In a similar way, in the spirit world,
too, Shree Yama Raj has to make definite plans .
regarding the persons to be taken up for the
administrative department. Naturally there
is no competitive examination and some other,
■device is employed. Shree Yama Raj has made
it a rule that those spirits who are not in the
fifth plane are not to be allowed to take part
in general administration; but he has made
one exception and that proviso is for allowing
the elementals to help in investigations. The
divine regulation makes it clear that only
spirits of the Surya-loka can participate in the
work of administration. It may be mentioned
here that even among the spirits of the fifth
plane, there is a difference of degree, if not
o f kind, in their level of intelligence. When
work is to be assigned to different spirits,
naturally that factor is to be borne in mind.
In some of the sittings, with my mediums, I
' have found them urging that every plane was
a unit by itself and that there should be no
chance of there being any degree of difference •
in the intelligence of the spirits of anyone
plane. I have very often endeavoured to
convince them that when a university confers
a degree on several persons it does not assure
82
the people •that all of them* have the same
amount of intelligence, and that in the same
•way, the plane is meant for denoting a class
rather than a measure itself. From thi? it
must be evident to my readers that spirits
from the same plane can and do hold different
positions, in our world. In this volume, it may
appear superfluous to give a catalogue of
different posts with the names of persons
holding them; yet if time and space permit,
some idea may be given though I am very
doubtful in view of the fact that I shall have
to take permission from Yama Raj. It is
equally foolish' to keep my readers in suspense
and therefore-I can say that most of the posts
are either regarding the work in the Court
which is described elsewhere in this book and
the other type is chiefly concerned with the
control, ' supervision and management of
different planes.
If I were to describe the various posts held
by spirits from this plane, it would be rather
complex to follow; but it can be safely said
that in every plane, right from the top to the
bottom, the fifth-stage spirits will be found
occupying posts of considerable importance.
W e have already seen, every plane has a pre­
siding deity; but it would be impossible even
for that divine spirit to look after every matter
in detail and it is very necessary that some
assistants should be appointed for proper and
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
83
efficient control. What functions . are
delegated to such spirits is a matter o f internaL
management and personal equation is the
deciding factor. Yet from what I have seen
and experienced, I feel that certain divine
spirits give full control regarding problems of
daily occurrence and only reserve for
themselves problems which are new in nature
and are grave enough to receive personal
attention and care, from such high souls
themselves; while in certain cases I have noted
that they do not want to delegate even ordi­
nary power regarding the usual administrative
work and they feel delighted in wasting a
major portion of their time in dealing with
such problems though I may venture to say
that the importance of such routine problems
is so little that they hardly deserve to be
termed as problems. But, taking a general
view, it appears that the deity is the chief
minister while the others are his councillors.
Energiser: It would appear from the above
description that spirits of the fifth plane have
a colossal amount of energy and vitality. The
reason is rather peculiar and hard to believe.
I myself, when in the fourth plane, refused to
believe it and I managed to see Yama on that
point. He agreed with me that the spirits had
no body and therefore nothing was necessary
to keep them fit. But he proceeded further
and revealed to me that in view of the demand
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
84
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
made on these spirits of the Surya-loka, some
help was deemed necessary and that took the
shape of some condensed vapour containing
a peculiar divine substance which I do candidly
admit 1 have never seen nor drunk; but its
presence in the atmosphere in the Surya-loka
gives the spirits the necessary energy.
Presiding Deity: This Ioka being veiy
active finds itself entangled in many problems
o f its own. They may be either relating to
the spirits’ personal affairs or certain things
regarding administration, and very often a
conflict between the spirits arises on a certain
issue which has therefore got to be taken up
by a very powerful authority and we find that
God Himself, popularly known as Shree
Vishnu Bhagwan, tries to settle all important
affairs, though most of the work is delegated
to efficient assistants of His own. He is of
course the best administrative Head in the
whole of the administrative corps.
SIXTH PLANE — THE SWARGA LOKA
The Swarga Loka: The Surya loka is so
tempting that persons like me do not desire to
go to the sixth one which is called the Swarga
loka. I need not state the reasons which lead
me to this particular conclusion and therefore
we proceed further. Swarga loka is just near
the Surya Loka and there is no great difference
between the two planes. It is very natural
85
THE. GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
that there are only a few thousand spirits in
this plane and most of them have proved
themselves worthy of being classed as sixth-
stage spirits. The factors which decide the
case are somewhat different from those of the
Surya loka. Ambition does not seem to play
an important part and we find that most
spirits of the sixth plane are not ambitious.
On the contrary, calmness and such other attri­
butes are of considerable use to them. But, it
should not be for a moment , deduced that
intelligence is not required, because that
quality is necessary in every stage in general
and in this stage in particular. Calm people
with little brains are no good for the sixth
plane; yet this may not be invariably true nor
do I claim any personal touch as I have never
had the honour of visiting the Swarga loka*
Happy Souls: What does Swarga indicate?
In Indian languages, it means the Heaven. The
ideal' to be hankered after is perfect happiness.
It may be doubted whether spirits have any
great perception of happiness as they have
no' physical existence. But the spirit Identity
has of course an idea of relative happiness or
otherwise, though the concept of happiness is
different here from that which is current in
the world of the living or in other stages of
spirit life. The spirit is happy at the idea of
*On the 10th May 1937 we were informed that Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle has been transferred to the Swarga
loka.
86
being promoted to this plane of eminence; he
can look back with a certain amount of happi­
ness, that his progress has been satisfactory
so far; and he can look forward with a certain
amount of confidence to salvation as a possible
goal, which will release him from the care and
trouble of births and deaths. Thus one who
is among the Swarga-loka-people considers
this promotion as a stepping stone to further
advancement Reading up finally to the most
coveted goal, Moksha or salvation.
Cold Spirits: My flattering description o f
the spirits of the sixth plane might seem to be
untrue to those who may have come into
contact with spirits of the Surya loka. The
reason is not far to seek, because the usual
complaint against them is their slow or dull
response which appears to us so chilling, and
we are sometimes led to believe that they ai*e
not the same persons or that they have lost
their brain. But, have you not seen in your
own world many instances in which your
relative or your friend becomes cold and the
popular reason assigned is that the person in
point has become very rich or that he is in a
much higher position than before? A person
like me who would go behind such popular
causes would find a rare logic behind it. When
the sphere of activity of one person widely
differs from that of the other one, a warm
relationship becomes very difficult and the
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
87
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
inevitable coldness results. In the same
manner, when a spirit goes to the sixth plane,
his activity changes and the material angle of
vision becomes a divine one and if my analysis
were to be applied, the sphere changes with
the usual consequences.
Loss of Touch with the W orld: From the
above picture of the life of the spirits of the
Swarga loka, it is evident that they have given
complete satisfaction and obtained complete
sympathy from the divine authorities and that
all their desires are therefore satisfied to a
large extent. In such a state of affairs, the
materialistic ideal of life is conspicuous by
its absence. When a high degree of content­
ment is reached, this is but natural. Many
mediums are incompetent, either by their
inferior brains or powers of attraction,
to call such spirits; and broadly speaking,
most of the Swarga loka spirits are not within
the reach of even fairly powerful mediums.
This is a factor which goes a long way in
reducing their possible touch with the world
o f the living. Over and above these points,
we have already seen that the quality of ambi­
tion is also absent. In this way, a proper
touch with the world is not feasible and, if I
were to express some important spirits’ views
on this point, there is no need also for such
high spirits to keep any strong connection with
•
people beyond the World of the Dead. I how-
88
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
ever beg to differ, because,- to my mind, it
appears that it would be a case of gross selfish­
ness on the part of those spirits who have
achieved a certain high status in their spiritual
advancement. A really good person is he who
-even "though he has no interest at stake keeps
himself in touch with the world with the
philanthropic idea of assisting those who
deserve some help.
Loss of Memory. It is difficult to give any
definite reason for spirits in general, and spirits
o f the sixth plane in particular, losing their
memory. But if my reasoning is correct, I
think, that the fact of the contact with the
other world being so nominal and insignificant
comes in the way of their remembering events
of their past life. In further elucidating the
point, we might well remind ourselves of the
absence of memory which results after a soul
is given a new life. No person, when living,
is able to give any idea of the life after death;
the reason is obvious because there are no
ways left open for him to continue his normal
relations with the world which he has just left.
In this way, we clearly see that even a nominal
touch between the two worlds is very difficult
to maintain and this is the cardinal point which
is responsible for the gradual loss of memory.
In the sixth plane, it is more so because there
is the absence of strong desire to make such
a contact possible. Furthermore, as Yama Raj
89
would put it, there would be no end of troubles
and dissatisfaction if spirits were to remember
every incident of their past life. I think, he is
nearer the truth in this case.
Control is inevitable even in the Swarga.
In popular parlance, the Swarga tends to
convey ‘an idea of ' perfect harmony and
we would never dream of control; but
perfection is rare and even among finer
pe9ple, there are certain problems which
require a finer handling too. It is however
fair to say that the number of disputes is much
smaller than is the case in other lokas, because,
after all, these are good people.
W e have here a deity w h o. is known as
Pavandev in Indian mythology. He is the God
of Wind, as it were. Interpreted in scientific
terms, he is in charge of the Transport Depart­
ment. His methods of expediting cases are well
known here and he therefore finds time to do
other work over and above the work of control
of the Swarga loka.
SEVENTH PLANE — THE DEVA LOKA
The Deva loka: The Deva loka is the last
plane in the world of the spirits. Itis thehighest
rung in the ladder of progress; but it does not
mean the end of life separate from the Creator.
It is the best possible reward to get this promo­
tion and I should think that only that man can
aspire to be among such spirits who has lived,
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
90
not one life but many lives which have proved
to be of great use to humanity. .But, all this
applies only when we think of individual
existence and not a combined existence with
the Creator, because many will hold that this
is not the highest reward possible and their idea
of perfect happiness lies in merger which is
known as Moksha. But I do not agree; but for
the time being,'I shall refrain from making
any sweeping statements on that important
issue. It is not fair on .my part to term the
persons of this loka as spirits, because even
their identities are much higher than the souls
of spirits of other stages, and we shall hence­
forth call them souls.
God-like souls: Souls who have the good for­
tune to be placed in the Devaloka, are usually
selected after a great deal of anxious considera­
tion on the part of the Court authorities, and
a very limited number proves itself worthy o f
being promoted to this upper plane. What
are the necessary qualifications is a natural
Question; but it being the sole concern o f
Yama Raj, it is not easy to give any clear cut
idea of the standard by which spirits of the
sixth plane are judged. But if I were to refer
to case law, as it were, though none really
exists, it appears that the attribute of complete
satisfaction is the proof round which the whole
problem of promotion hangs. To make this
quality perfect, calmness is also found helpful.
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
91
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
If these two virtues are accompanied by the
absence of fervent ambitions, they achieve a
state of mind which is so essential for making
a spirit different from the ordinary human
being. They do not for a moment hanker
after material achievements; they are cool
and collected enough to think of higher
problems of further spiritual advancement,
either of their own or of their less fortunate
fellow-beings. The only vice which is likely
to corrupt their mental chastity is their snob­
bish mentality. Those persons therefore who
are not intellectual snobs are given permanent
but not eternal (because there is salvation)
position in the plane called the Devaloka. The
Indian word brings out the correct picture of
the mental condition and attitude of the souls
in this particular plane. In our modern
language, they may be termed god-like souls
who are near our ideal of perfection. I am
afraid, it is not in the power of the pen to give
a realistic idea of these souls and I should say
they are more than mere descendants of Adam.
No touch with mediums: It is a popular
belief among mediums, both English and
others, that by their powers of attraction no
spirit dare resist their force. But, it will come
as a bolt from the blue that every dead person
comes only when he is inclined to talk with
that particular medium. You must have seen
cases where a sitting or a series of sittings are
92
more or less failures and in cases of amateurs
they would be forced to admit their inability
to call a particular spirit. The reason is already
given. It may be further added that spirits o f
all planes except those of the Devaloka are
nearly anxious to get an opportunity to talk
with the people of the world which they have
left. But, all of a sudden, a change occurs in
the mind of the spirit when he is placed in the
Devaloka; and very often, he is anxious to
avoid any sort of disturbance from the world
beyond and this is the cause why mediums
should not attempt to drag them in a world
which for all practical purposes they have
renounced; and to my mind it is a positive
disservice to those divine persons who were
among us some time before.
No activity: Readers must be eager to know
about the activities of such god-like souls.
But, I am sure I will disappoint you when I
say that in a deep atmosphere of calmness,
no life of that sort exists. Does it not appear
very strange to you? I was really surprised to
learn that such a high promotion means an
end of one’s active and industrious life. In
my talk with the God of Death very recently,
he explained to me that they are in the making
for earning salvation. Naturally, it puts an
end to the individual existence and'this stage
is designed to act as a prelude to the termina­
tion of such a type of life. Absence of activity
THE SEVEN STAGES OR PLANES
93
is an evolutionary process leading to the final
goal.
'Rest: Every soul who comes to the Deva-
loka has received all sorts of necessary train-
ing during the course of many births which he
had to take and this process of gradual change
has made him what he is to-day. It is time’
for him to leave the world for ever and before
he can do so, a period of rest is necessary,
because the soul which is to be merged in the
Great Soul should be pure and free from all
types of excitements. Just as we need rest
after a strenuous year’s work, in the same way
when the great mission of life is over, a sigh
of relief is a necessary prerequisite.
Control though inevitable in other stages
of spiritual existence, is not regarded necessary
here. Souls are free to act as they please and
no rule of general conduct applies. But, if
we go behind the language, every soul gets an
interview with Vishnu or God by turns and
during that meeting, any undesirable action is
commented upon. In this way, a nominal
indirect control is there; but it is better inter­
preted if we say that in this loka, there is the
paternal guidance of the kind-hearted Vishnu.
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND ’ DEATH
94
CHAPTER V
THE TH EORY OF RE-BIRTH
Hindu belief— Buddhist doctrine of Karma— Re­
births and experience— Evolution— Reaping the fruits
of past life— Different types ‘of births— Number of
births usually required for Moksha— Missions of
life---- Short lives and their missions— Concept of
spirit-identities— Change of sex.
Hindu Belief. Many people do not admit
the existence of' spirits and the idea of rein­
carnation does not appeal to them. Moreover,
no religion except the Hindu religion accepts
such a concept. The Christians and Muslims
believe in the theory pf the Judgment Day
and put their faith in the principle of Resur­
rection; but as we shall presently see such a
state o f stagnation is not to be found in the
World of the Dead. On the other hand, the
Hindu idea of rebirth is quite correct, for it
does not presuppose a state of stagnation.
Reasoning should convince us that such
stagnation should have no place in the divine
ordering of things, because our lives are after
all meant for progress of some kind. Would
it not be strange to believe and advocate that
the spark of life, which leaves the body on
death, does not enter some other body? The
95
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
soul which departs from the body invariably
does enter some other body, though such a
change involves some lapse of time, because
no authority, however competent it may be,
can fix a body before a soul can take charge of
it. Furthermore, there is no scope for discus­
sion in this case, when it is a matter of pure
fact. I have endeavoured to examine the
reason which justifies reincarnation, rather
than prove the theory of rebirth, because such
.an attempt on my part would be futile, as it
is a fait accompli. The Hindus have known
this fact for many many years and to them
the idea would appeal no doubt; but to others
it may sound quaint, though the present
development in the spiritual and occult fields
have led the people on that track.
Buddhist Doctrine of Karma. What
purpose does rebirth serve in the general
advancement of persons who are in the rou­
tine chain of births and deaths? This is the
real crux of the problem of life. In the Hindu
books, dealing with that subject, there is no
direct analysis of the problem as a whole, and
for some length of time the mystery of the
mission of life was not made clear to the vast
majority of the Indian people. Lest it may be
misinterpreted, I wish to state that I have
made no special study of religious books, and
there are some spirits who hold that the Hindu
religion by indirect or direct implications has
96
THE THEORY OF RE-BIRTH
given to the world the idea of Karma. I have
no authority to flout that opinion; but, I am
on surer grounds when I say that the Buddha,
who flourished in India in the sixth century
before Christ, made out for the first time a
strong case in favour of the Karma theory, if
at all it existed before. The whole exposition
o f the doctrine is so lucid, interesting and
instructive, that I advise my readers to get an
idea of that original contribution to the theory
of Reincarnation and the real purpose of life.
What is meant by Karma? The English trans­
lation would lead us to the word ‘‘Deed” . But
only a shade of the real meaning of the
original is expressed by that word. Karma at
once makes one think of the consequences
and after-effects of a particular action per­
formed by a person. The theory goes on to
express the idea in minute details, but the gist
of the whole point is that the life of a person
after death in the spirit-world is not of very
great importance; but that particular persons’
soul, when given another birth, has to reap
the fruits of the seeds which he has sown in
his previous life. For his good actions, he gets
adequate and ample rewards in the shape of
material happiness and prosperity; while, for
his bad deeds, he has to suffer, such sufferings
taking the shape of setbacks which we come
across in every day life.
It is rather strange that no set-off is allowed
97
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
and every action is to be repaid in kind though
it means a bitter experience indeed. But, even
a high person like the Buddha has apparently
neglected the principle of Karma, because his
teachings have never endeavoured to explain
the influences which the same doctrine exer­
cises in the spirit world, and he has failed to
perceive the concept of spirit identity'. In the
spirit "world also, good and bad actions have
their effects on the spirit’s life. But there is a
vast difference; every action is not to be paid
in kind. Yama Raj while deciding a particular
case takes into account the good and bad
deeds and he finds out the resultant effect
and this effect in its turn decides the assign­
ment of a plane. In this way we clearly see
that the doctrine of Karma Ends direct appli­
cation both in the living and the dead worlds,
with this difference that the principle of
set-off applies to the spirit-world but not to
the living world.
‘ Rebirths and experience: The first thing
which should strike a person interested in the
Theory of Rebirth is the significance of births
and deaths. What is the idea underlying this
rotation of births and deaths? It is not diffi­
cult to understand it, if we believe in die
evolution of the soul, regarding that vital part
as a thing capable of further advancement
and improvement and not as perfect and
complete. If this assumption be true, the
98
problem of educating a soul naturally con­
fronts the Creator and He has evolved a
system of progressively educating souls
through the agency of the living world. If for
a moment we assume that the soul were given
a permanent body and death were abolished,
the soul in its particular station of'life would
not after a certain stage be able to improve
further and a limit would be reached which
would spell nothing short of stagnation. W e
must therefore reject this assumption as
absurd. As the only way of avoiding such a
contingency, God has assigned limits to each
birth and the period intervening between two
births is Death and the life thereafter. These
various births give souls the necessary expe­
rience without allowing them to reach a state
of existence which can be called stagnation.
It has been common knowledge that a soul
sometimes gets a long life and sometimes a
short one. The reasons which determine the
span of life in one birth depend on the facts
of each individual case; but, it may be safely
asserted that when a particular type of birth
has done its work in the shape of giving the
necessary education to the soul, the limit is
reached. This limit may be short or long, just
enough to allow a soul to reap the fruits of
his past life. These details however do not
concern us here; for the basic idea after all
is to give experience and education to the
soul.
THE THEORY OF RE-BIRTH
99
E
volu
tion: The general theory of Rebirth
is placed before my readers attempting to
show the idea and principles underlying the
whole problem. W e shall now examine how
the process of evolution works out in practice.
Evolution unlike revolution does not attempt
to set the house in order in one birth, but, by
a long and gradual process, which is smooth
enough in normal cases. It is the design o f
the spirit-world authorities to do that difficult
task in a series of births, which is a long
process indeed, but no human or divine brain
so far has evolved any better system. H ow
is the whole evolution programme planned
out is an interesting point no doubt. When a
soul is to be given a birth, he is not given a
bad position in life, because the authorities
send out souls, not with a view to test them,
but to know their real worth. It is a mistake
to assume that new souls start from the lowest
point. Very often it is the reverse and new
souls are placed in very good circumstances
and surroundings to prove their worth. It is
only when they either live a life not desirable
in that birth or misuse certain opportunities,
that they have to undergo rigid tests or prove
themselves worthy of living a good life
among a host of temptations and complica­
tions. But taking a good case, in which the
soul has showed its worth, a better birth, with
easier conditions of life and better opportuni­
st)
THE GREAT MYSTERY -OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
ties to come out successfully, lies in store for
him. W e thus clearly see the motive behind
the process of evolution. All that the Creator
desires is the general advancement of all the
souls. W e may further say that the whole
process is so well arranged that a soul gets all
types of experiences and the varieties of birth
provided are so many that there is no reason
to doubt the usefulness of this method by
which good results can be achieved. But some
may feel doubtful of the whole exposition
given by me because they know that the
number of persons getting salvation is very
small. I agree with them, but what I contend is
that if all the opportunities given during
various births are utilised properly, the final
goal is not far off. But, in most cases, such
happy exploitation of good occasions is not
attempted or it is beyond ordinary human
power and to this extent the ultimate goal
becomes more and more remote.
Reaping the Fruits of Past Life: In the
preceding paragraph, we have assigned too
much importance to the process of evolution.
But that is not the only idea underlying the
whole scheme. One birth imparts certain
legacies either good or bad, and the next birth
visualises their actual realisation, and in its
turn creates further obligations. In this
fashion, the world goes on, till the soul is
considered fit enough to be merged and no
THE THEORY OF RE-BIRTH
101
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
longer be in tbis world of the living, or of the
dead. Thus if the whole idea were to be
expressed in brief, every body incurs certain
obligations and is required to make them good
or exact them, as the case may be, in the
succeeding incarnations. This is reaping the
fruits of the past life, the bad and good acts
of that life having their own effects. I for
one believe that in the world of the living too,
a set-off should be allowed and only the
balance, good or bad, should affect the person
concerned. But since government does not
usually listen and payment in kind continues
so far, the only thing I can do is to suggest to
the people concerned to organise and resort to
collective action, because such matters receive
adequate attention and care "only when the
authorities get an idea of the number o f
persons in favour of it. I know, however, of
a person well versed in spiritual matters, who
holds that such a step "would make the world
such that the idea of advancement would be
completely defeated. The world would be too
simple to afford any scope for high ideals o f
life or noble ideas of duty and sacrifice. The
test would be diluted to a considerable degree
and would lead us to believe that a stage of
stagnation would be reached. My idea differs
widely and I would like to know from such
people why they believe that the world would
be too simple to live in. In a way, I believe,
102
the simpler the material world, the better the
type of education afforded. W e see however
that in the present circumstances, the Creator
seems to make the lives of souls as complex
as possible and most of us are forced to under­
go very rigid tests. My idea of a pleasant
simple world is not considered worth-while
putting into practice. There is one satisfac­
tion though in the fact that every body reaps
what he has sown and if one attempts to lead
as simple a life as possible, the further legacies
would be reduced to a large extent and the
,purpose in view can be achieved only to a
small extent.
Different Types of Births: Every one of
us has to take a certain number of births. But
all these births do not form so many classes.
On the other hand, the types of births are few
in number though the stations of life may
vary to a considerable extent.
Among the chief types of births, there is
one category known as comfortable birth,
which is regarded as quite good because it
makes it possible to be quite successful in the
material world. Hardships are few and far
between; there are ample opportunities for
doing good to oneself and to others. Further­
more, the duration of life in this type of birth
is fairly long, and in every respect, fair play
is offered.
The second type is luxurious birth, which
103
THE THEORY OF RE-BIRTH
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
means the best station in life. The surround­
ings are so favourable that a person who is
wise enough is bound to make good progress
during his life in the world and even after
such an existence is extinct. If I were to put
it correctly, hardships or setbacks in life do
not exist said there lies before you a path
strewn with roses; and there can be therefore
unchecked advancement. Furthermore, it is
evident that God gives such a type of birth
to those who are likely to progress and are
still new. But, the grave danger which stares,
as it were, in the face of these seemingly
happy souls is temptation or maya. It is easy
to say that such hurdles should not prove an
impediment to spiritual progress. But it is
easier said than done, because, the fascination
for such wordly joys and pleasures is very
often so strong that restraint is out of ques­
tion. If by accident or design such control
can be exercised, the future of the soul
concerned is bright; but if he falls a victim to
this glorious maya, such a birth may never
come again.
The third type is the birth full of troubles,
toil and poverty. Here perhaps the maya does
not exist; but its glamour is none the less as
acute as before. In such a birth or in such a
wretched existence, no ideals can be expected
nor is the soul expected to do any good to
others. If he manages to live a useful existence
104
and not be a burden to others and if he is able
to make both ends meet by fair means, he ■will
be deemed to have done all that could be
expected of him. But the painful existence
and awful surroundings tend to drive the
person to lose all his reason and this may
force him to use underhand means to get
some relief. This sort of birth is in a way the
acid test which can be applied to souls of all
types. There are a few other classes or sub­
classes of births, but I think, these three
should serve to illustrate the purposes for
which the births are employed in helping the
souls to come out. Naturally my readers
would like me to give some interesting
details; but unfortunately there are some
restrictions which prevent me from supplying
them here. I would be the last person to
shield my inabilities under the plea of restric­
tions; but here it is a fact.
Number of births usually required for
Moksha: W e have been talking of births all
through, but I think it is now desirable to give
an idea of the number of births usually
required for achieving the final goal, the
merger. Among the Hindus, or the Indians
in general, there is a belief current that 84
lakhs of births have to be taken before one
can think of salvation; but I am not so sure
of this because there is no such stipulated
limit and every case depends on its merits.
THE THEORY OF RE-BIRTH
105
There may be cases where even 84 lakhs of
births may not earn the coveted Moksha. A t
the same time instances of persons getting
salvation in say a few hundred births are not
very rare. The number largely depends on
the quality of the soul. But, if we were to
confine ourselves to the middle class or the
vast majority of souls, they nearly take about
80 to 90 thousand births before they can
think of the divine merger. It may be that
instead of 84 lakhs, it was 84 thousand in the
original books. But due to public memory
being notoriously short, such an exaggeration
may have crept in. It is difficult to give any
clear cut number and 1 do not want to make
a sweeping remark over such a delicate point.
But in normal cases, my estimate is very
nearly correct. Furthermore, even the autho­
rities cannot know the required number
because that depends upon the deeds of the
soul in previous births. There is no royal road
to attain salvation. It is necessary for a soul
to pass through various kinds of ordeals and
vicissitudes in the shape of births which are
certainly not comfortable. I often feel that
most persons have such a psychological way
of viewing things that they refuse to grasp
the fundamentals of leading a good and
useful life. They can visualise things only
when presented in a concrete form. Thus
experience has to be gathered and not learnt;
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
106
and this accounts for the slow and tardy'deve­
lopment of most of us, in spite of the fact
that we do not make our debut on the lowest
rung of the ladder of progress. If our Creator
had not been so kind and if we had to begin
from the bottom o f the deep spiritual ocean,
even 84 millions of births would have failed
to achieve the desired goal. It is a pity that
God does not become kind enough to allow a
soul, who has been stumbling over the rock
of advancement repeatedly to progress and to
earn promotion to a higher stage. Once the
soul is created and let loose under favourable
circumstances, he has to show his own worth
and to earn Moksha.
Missions of Life: I shall now turn my
attention to a most complex and delicate
subject. The importance of the problem o f
the mission of life makes it necessary for me
to make at least a passing reference to the
subj’ect. At this moment, I confess my weak­
ness and that is that I have, or my brain has,
failed to single out even a few outstanding
missions of life, much less a single one. But
one cannot blame me for this inability, be­
cause I have made a constant endeavour to
find the way out of the wood. In my discus­
sion with the God of Death, I have learnt with
some satisfaction that people who are
superior to me in most respects have met with
nearly the same result. What is then the
THE THEORY OF RE-BIRTH
107
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
cause? I ask my readers. If my ability does
not fail to analyse the problem under normal
circumstances, is it not the multiplicity of
births as well as of souls that is responsible
for diverse missions of life in existence?
Whatever may be the explanation assigned to
the fact of there being diverse missions of
life, it is certain that such diversity does exist.
W hy such a number of missions should be in
■existence is a question which would give
good food for reflection and speculation to an
intelligent man. But 1 think it is none of our
business to go into these details.
I now propose to take up some outstanding
missions and give an analytical account o f
them. The first and the most important (so
far as it relates to the popular notions)
mission of life is self-betterment and gratifi­
cation of personal desires. The words are in
a way self explanatory. People, with very
narrow ideas of existence, are tempted to
hold this as their ultimate goal. They in most
cases have never cared, or have not the power,
to think in a rational manner. Such a class
o f people is characteristically composed of
spirits of the third stage or the tapaloka. They
are middle class people with ideas which
certainly do not do credit to the conception
o f a good and well-lived human life. This may
be an exaggeration, yet it is more or less
correct in so far as it attempts to depict the
108
class. The concept of self-betterment is or
can be interpreted in one’s own way. But
keeping in mind broad divisions, it means
good of one’s self and family. Even this is
not clear as the word ‘family’ has in course
of time assumed different meanings; but our
typical man does not go beyond the very
narrow circle of his family. This much for
the quantitative aspect of betterment. But we
have neglected the qualitative aspect so far.
The betterment in this respect can assume
two forms; one material and the other, spiri­
tual. Gratification of worldly desires including
passions and baser instincts of our race form
the former sort of betterment. Such people
can never progress as their actions would be
of such a nature that every act would involve
the T . They would never think of others and
would not even shudder when injuring the
interests of others. I for one would say that
such people deserve no place on our earth.
But, that apart, the divine authorities also
treat them with contempt. The idea of spiri­
tual betterment has found favour among the
Hindus. Renouncing the world for self­
betterment is a common thing in India. Here
the aim is not deprecated as the person tries
to attain the goal which is divine. But the
only thing which is bad is that the person
does not shoulder the troubles and risks which
are meant for him, and in this way he makes
THE THEORY OF RE-BIRTH
109
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
his period of training short indeed with, the
usual consequences. Furthermore, even
during the period of training, he stays away
from the world for all practical purposes, and
in this way that particular incarnation is said
to have failed in its basic motive, and I for
one would call it no training. Anyway, it is
not a good and noble way of leading life,
which presents very few opportunities for
testing and training. But, I have found that
such people do progress and that too fairly
rapidly.
Now coming to the second mission of life,
we come to a class of people who do not care
to think of to-morrow and their mission is
one, which can be aptly described as aimless
existence. They are very peculiar in this
respect and resemble animals more than men,
and in my opinion they are absolutely unfit
for birth as human beings. The only thing
that makes them work is the problem of
keeping the body and soul together. If they
can manage to get their bread without any
trouble, they would not exert themselves. In
this way they lead a very low life even
though their character may be good. The
ideals of high social service or status are cons­
picuous by their absence. They never aspire
to progress either materially or spiritually.
Perhaps they seem to advocate stagnation and
they are certainly stagnation incarnate. I
110
personally hate these people, but in our world
there is no word of contempt for them. At
the most, they are reminded of the useless life
they have led in the trial-judgment; but in
no case an appeal is made to bring about a
change in their outlook. It is evident, of
course, that they have fewer opportunities
offered in the next birth and this acts as a
further hindrance to their progress. I wonder
how many births would be enough to kindle
that urge which would lead to progress. It is
a moot point but I would say it is a difficult
task to induce any change in their attitude. At
least, that has been my experience.
Thirdly, we have the very noble and
perhaps the best mission and that is the
mission of service. I, for one, feel that if at
all our life is to remain distinct from and
superior to other lives and if we are to make
our incarnation successful, the whole of our
life should be dominated or controlled by that
high quality which begins from duty and
widens itself into service and that is why it
has been compared to a spiral spring. Duty is
a thing which is not a virtue; but this may
sound paradoxical, because in every thing
that is said about duty, it is referred to as
perhaps the highest virtue. But I hold that
duty to oneself is an inevitable thing and if
we, with all our human intelligence, do per­
form this duty, there is nothing abnormal.
Ill
THE THEORY OF RE-BIRTH
As a matter of fact, we are performing the
most natural act which God has ordained us
to do. Now supposing for a moment one of
us fails to perform the duty to oneself, it is
a vice no doubt. Thus, non-performance is a
crime, but faithful adherence is not a virtue.
In this way, it must have been clear to you
that every one of us should do his duty
towards himself because if such acts were not
done, the progress of the world both spiritual
and material would be checked. This leads
me to express a view that performance of
duty cannot be classed as a mission, though
there are some who do maintain that it does
form a mission. I leave this fact to be judged
by my readers. There exists a fine line of
difference between duty and service. Whereas
duty relates to oneself, service relates to all
except one’s own self. Furthermore, there
can be only one type of duty while service
can be subdivided into two major classes. One
is service without any desire for reward or
even a partial return; the other kind of ser­
vice is rendered with a definite idea of a
complete or partial return in some form.
Turning our thoughts to this latter type of
service, it is evident that it falls short of the
noble and lofty ideal which is attached to this
sacred word. If it is rendered with an idea of
getting the full reward, in my opinion, it
ceases to be service; but if partial -reward is
112
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
THE THEORY OF RE-BIRTH
expected, it -is certainly an act which pleases
divine authorities and to that extent the
person concerned is said to prove that he has
lived a useful life. Some may argue that even a
desire for spiritual advancement, which may act
as an inducement, should take that deed away
from the category of service. This is logically
true'; but as there are rules in the courts of
the world of the living, which make certain
things legal by its approval, in the same
fashion, our court has regarded this particular
desire as absolutely valid and there is no scope
for further discussion.
Now coming to the mission of pure
service, I for one am inclined to think
and that too with good reasons that
such an ideal cannot exist and will not exist
in the imperfect human world and if I may
venture to say it is not even found in the spirit
world. Perhaps, you may feel that I am dog­
matic in my views; but before you form that
idea, do think about the abstruse principle of
service in the widest sense. Every one of us
from the very birth, as it were, does every
act with the idea of receiving some good out
of it, and this particular instinct does not dis­
appear even with the passage of time. Human
nature itself is against pure service. Perhaps
this instinct makes us materialistic and we
form a distinct class by ourselves. It is rather
difficult to pass any judgment about the
113
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
mental trend of the divine beings; but I am
sure that there are certain moments when
they also forget the concept of pure service
and become a prey to the material instinct.
I have not enough courage to give further
details on this point. Coming to the world o f
the living, there are people who do certain
acts without any idea of gaining anything
from them. But such acts are far and few
between, since it often happens that though
the service is rendered without at the moment
any desire for reward, after it is performed
the human mind feels that there should be
some reward from the party who received the
benefit. In this way, the lurking desire creeps
in and shatters the very roots of pure service
to pieces. I would quote my own example.
When I thought of writing this book in Ma-
habaleshwar in the year 1936, I had an idea
of pure service. Subsequently as the book
developed on original lines, and when I
received some information that it is well
spoken of, a lurking desire crept in my mind
that 1should get a good reward for my labours
either in the shape of a better stage or an
excellent birth. I did not deliberately think
in this way; but very gradually such ideas
crystallised in my mind. This is an adequate
explanation for illustrating this natural weak­
ness of the human mind. Thus, it seems to me
that the idea of pure service is rather abstruse
114
THE THEORY OF RE-BIRTH
and difficult for our society to adopt. But, at
the same time, I do not hold that we should
not attempt to be nearer that ideal. It may
seem that such attempts are sure to prove
futile; but you may rest assured that every
one of us gets a few rare opportunities when
it is possible to put theory into practice.
I do not want to go into further details
about other missions of life because they fall
into one of the three classes I have described,
with some changes, and in some cases there
is a mixture of one or two of them. Our
society is essentially dynamic and clear cut
divisions do not exist.
Turning our eyes to the results we get by
having some definite mission of life, I feel
the position is clear enough, because the
nobler the mission of life the better are the
deeds performed, and when those deeds have
some good points about them the cumulative
effect is spiritual and material advancement.
Short Lives and Their Missions: We can
understand all missions of life, but we are
confronted with some difficulty when we find
cases where the life is too short, sometimes
even less than one year. Can such souls have
anything to do in the world to which they'are
sent? Yama Raj explains such cases by saying
that babies die, not to get experience them­
selves, but they are simply instruments to
give experience to their parents. Or it may
115
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
be that for the bad conduct o f a particular
soul, the rigors of death are the only-
punishment and a short life is given in such
cases to furnish an occasion for inflicting that
punishment. This explains the phenomenon
o f still-births also. Short lives of say four or
five years or even more may be needed in
some cases to complete a period of time, and
not to add any experience, for granting pro­
motion from one stage to the higher one.
These explanations may be true; but do they
not seem to be based on considerations devoid
■of human feelings?
Concept of spirit-identities: So far we have
talked about the spiritual world; but die soul
bas to go back to the material world. This
brings out an interesting problem and that is:
During the material life, does the soul sever
his connection with the world of the dead?
If we were to think as living people do, the
soul, as soon as he is born, has to leave the
spirit world completely. But this is not true.
Early Hindus thought and perhaps the
modern Indians also think in the same strain,
though I feel this was due to the fact that
Tegular spiritual talks were not conducted.
But the facts are that a soul though indivisible
has two bodies or forms as it were. The chief
form is the soul which goes to the material
world, for training, and for all practical pur­
poses this is the soul in the popular sense.
116
THE THEORY OF RE-BIRTH
But, the other form, which in its powers is
roughly one eighths of the main form, is the
soul so far as the spirit-world is concerned.
But, it is not called a soul but a spirit. Such
a spirit is, as it were, kept to give a correct
idea of the soul concerned. This spirit in the
language of the Court is called an identity o f
so and •so. Identity is a word which just
expresses the meaning, and it is, as it were,
a faithful reproduction of the soul. Perhaps
this idea of the identity may appear strange;
but when you, spiritualists, find that some
people even though they are reborn can still
talk, it is beyond doubt that there is some
agency, which does the work of talking, and
this particular phenomenon can only be ex­
plained by the concept of spirit-identities.
The proof for the existence of such identities
can be easily found in practical sittings.
Change of Sex: Before concluding the
chapter, about tKe theory of rebirth, it is
desirable to discuss the problem of the change
of sex. Those who have no belief in reincar­
nation have abstained from discussing the
point. I do not know whether the Hindus
have bothered about it. I am not sure and
therefore this statement is open to correction.
But whatever the world may think about it,
God wants to give various types of births and
therefore He gives both types of births. Thus
a person may be a male in one birth and a
117
female in the next one. But very often it
happens that there are a series of births during
■which time the soul does not change the sex.
But, it is certain that the proportion does not
go beyond the limit of 30-70, that is, a soul
has to take at least 30 per cent of the total
births .as a male and 70 per cent as a female
or vice versa. But in normal cases, the pro­
portion is nearly 50-50. The change of sex
is a normal thing, though I am sure this state­
ment will come as a surprise to most of you.
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
118
CHAPTER VI
A D A Y IN THE LIFE OF A SPIRIT
Environment— No support necessary— No particu­
lar duty— No physical senses— No need for food or
shelter— Attendance at trials— Assignment of special
duties— Attendance on gods— Petty investiga­
tions— Visit to the world— Peep into the
future— Daily routine.
Environment: So far we have been des­
cribing various phases of the unknown world,
but it is high time that you should be more
intimately informed about the daily life of
spirits. But before we begin our tale of their
daily life, it is desirable that some illusions
about our spirit-world should be removed.
This world does not differ to an appreciable
extent from the world of the living in so far
as the natural atmosphere is concerned. In all
the places there is the normal atmosphere
though it is certainly rarified and useless for
human consumption. But, as most of you
must be knowing, spirits do not have to
take the trouble of breathing, as they have
no lungs. All physical senses are conspicuous
by their absence and it is taken for granted in
this book that readers by a little stretch of
119
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
imagination are able to visualise such a being.
Winds also find a place in the world of the
dead. But fortunately, or unfortunately, there
is no rainfall. In normal cases, these elements
are calm, and do not in any way prove to be
a hindrance to spirits.
Furthermore, we have also the inevitable
phenomena of days and nights. O f course,
we have no seasons, because variations in the
temperature have no effect on us. In this way
it must be clear that normal natural conditions
exist; but there is one great difference
between the two worlds; in the living world,
these elements play a very important part in
the lives of people, while in the spirit-world,
they have no effect.
No Support Necessary: Apart from this
difference just pointed out, there is also a
great difference in the two worlds, in this that
in the world of the humans, there is the earth
to support the material beings. It is very
difficult to imagine a world without the earth,
because human beings who have physical
senses require some support to carry on their
normal work to gratify their desires. I am
sure that human existence without such a
concrete form would be impossible and if the
earth were to disappear, human existence
would come to an end. Among the Hindus,
there is a belief that when there are- many
people away from the path o f virtue and the
120
A DAY IN THE LIFE OF A SPIRIT
Creator feels that it is better to wind up his
Creation, He would destroy the earth. But I
differ from this ill-founded view, because
divine beings rarely advocate such a destruc­
tive policy. In a way this digression has no
place here. Resuming our main theme, we
find that the spirit-world is a world without
the earth. These identities having no physical
senses do not require the concrete support
which human beings need badly. It is, I know,
very difficult to imagine correctly the world
of spirits because the human conception of a
world is always associated with an idea o f
some concrete existence. I also think that the
power of the pen would fail to give correct
touches to the rough picture l have tried to
portray before my readers. But if you can
somehow conceive of a being devoid of all
senses except the mental faculties, such a
world would not appear inconceivable to
you, though I will not blame those minds who
refuse to grasp it. A spirit is not a being with
a body or a form. It is, at its best, a reservoir
of energy or a spark of life or the guiding
force of human beings. As electricity is an
energy which cannot be caught, the spirit in
the same manner cannot "come under human
sway or influence.
No particular duty: Spirits are better des­
cribed as identities because the word spirit
conveys a wrong meaning in so far as it tends
121
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
to give an idea of separate existence.
Spirit-life in a way there is none; and we
spirits are merely shadows of the real beings
who are in the mortal world, and, it is very
natural that, these shadows should have no
particular life of their own, though they do in
a way represent the soul’s past life. It is how­
ever erroneous to hold that no life for identi­
ties exists at all. The distance beween the soul
on the Earth and the spirit here justifies a
separate life, though, as you will subsequently
notice, the life which they lead is hardly worth
the name.
The beings who form the spirit-world are
not in a position to undertake any regular
work. All the senses except that of the mind
are taken away from the spirits, and this reason
is enough to justify their inability or failure
to take up any work, which would require
constant effort. Some argue that if their
mental faculty is strong, they should be in a
position to take up duties that relate to such
mental faculty, and verily spirits with
adequate brain power do make use of their
energy. The Court authorities have therefore
always abstained from assigning any duties
to all spirits; only those who show exceptional
willingness and ability are requested to assist
the government.
No physical senses: As we have seen
before, in this chapter, and perhaps elsewhere
122
A DAY IN THE LIFE OF A SPIRIT
too, the spirit is bereft of all physical senses,
and it would be very difficult for you to
visualise such a being. If among living per­
sons one of them were to lose, say, his eyes,
or ears, his existence would be simply horrible.
From such sufferings of humanity, you can
perhaps form an idea of the pitiful life of the
spirit. But then how does he carry on?
Perhaps, it is difficult to explain. It will not
enter your brains that we talk quite freely
without any power of speech. We catch your
call all right without any hearing faculty.
How can this be explained? The only expla­
nation I can place before you is the fact that
God knows that we have no senses and there­
fore permits His divine powers to come to our
aid. So much for receiving and giving ideas
and information among ourselves. But with
the living people our position is very weak.
W e have to make strong efforts to convey our
ideas; and we are not able to give proofs to
them of our existence.
No need for food or shelter: A spirit, if you
can see in the right perspective, is in a posi­
tion to live without food. Having no physical
existence, he does not require any food and
if he were supplied with any, he has no powers
to eat. The spark of energy he represents
does not require any help in the shape of some
food to carry on. But it appears to me that
some help is necessary and perhaps, the divine
123
authorities see their way in this respect. How
they do it, or whether they do it or not is a
complete mystery to me. But it is a fact that
the identities are always quite fit. The
problem of food is connected with that o f
shelter. The conditions in this connection
are the same as in the case of food; shelter is
not needed; and as a matter of fact, nothing
is provided. But it is true that when we go
out for a stroll, we do like places with good
climatic conditions, though the reason for such
preference is mainly a psychological one. This
view is mine; but some hold that spirits are
affected by climatic changes. When however
I requested a person, holding such a view to
explain and substantiate it, he was not in a
position to do so and I continue to hold to my
belief of the reason being a psychological one
only.
Attendance at trials: In the preceding pages,
we have dealt with the Court more or less
completely and given some information about
the attendance of spirits. Now we shall go
into some further details. Trials are conducted
for judging the souls who return after complet­
ing their term of life. The deeds of the past
life are placed before the Court and an analy­
tical survey of the past existence is carried
out. Thus the Court authorities have deemed
it desirable that these decisions and discussions
should be utilised for some good purpose.
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
124
A DAY IN THE LIFE OF A SPIRIT
What purpose they can serve is clear enough.
It is certainly the best possible training ground
for spirits. If spirits were to attend
the Court trials and take a live interest in
various proceedings, described in a previous
chapter, these are bound to help them in
advancing both spiritually and materially.
These trials are conducted so carefully and
efficiently that a spirit is sure to find something
definitely interesting and useful for him.
Perhaps my earlier description may have led
you to believe that the judgments are merely
sermons or threats from Yama. But it is far
from that. The Court authorities have how­
ever never made attendance at trials compul­
sory. If I were consulted on this point, I
should certainly say that every spirit should
devote some time of the day in hearing trials,
because there is no other institution or place
where a spirit may get some guidance or help
regarding his betterment. But if he were to
devote, say, an hour or two at the Court, the
amount of knowledge which he would secure
would be substantial and it may stand him in
good stead in his next life. Here I may make
it clear that very advanced spirits are not likeljr
to receive any benefit by attending the Court;,
but they can certainly help in the administra­
tion.
Assignment of special duties: From the
above description we might perhaps conclude
125
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
that spirits have no work to do; but that is
not universally true. From the chapter on
the Seven Stages of souls, it is apparent that
only spirits of the fifth plane or of the Surya
Loka are in a position to do some work. I
have already explained to you before that
other spirits are not able to help in general
administration. But, if you remember,
elementals have also considerable powers in
this respect. The Court has therefore made
use of these two classes of spirits for carrying
on its work. This is not however the normal
duty of the spirits; it is a special duty, assigned
to them. Thus, some spirits are made use of
in investigations, while others are useful in
recording events of importance, and others yet
are used for pleading cases and so on. As I
have discussed previously, the whole edifice
of court administration rests on the honorary
services rendered by spirits of the Surya Loka.
I have no idea of belittling the share of the
elementals; but their work is not honorary,
because they can only be persuaded to work
if some definite reward is forthcoming for
them. "Whether honorary Of paid, however,
they help the Court in many ways. The
powers, which they possess, melt away the
most formidable obstacles in the work of
difficult investigations. Their methods may
not be perfect; but the results which they
achieve are simply marvellous, and the Court
126
is more concerned with the results than with
the technique. In this way, we see that special
duties are assigned; but no spirit is forced to
take up any work against his will. But as a
matter of fact so many spirits are anxious to
work that there is not enough work for all of
them and the problem of forcing spirits to do
work against their will does not arise. Some
further duties are given to spirits, willing to
work in their own planes or stages; and these
duties are called domestic or local duties. They
chiefly relate to the problems of spirits inter se
and are of smaller importance. Spirits of
every stage are allowed to do such work,
though preference is given to Surya loka
spirits. In this way, we have clearly laid
before us the whole problem of special duties
which are generally assigned to spirits in
general and spirits of the Surya loka in parti­
cular. It may sound peculiar that the main
burden of administration is shouldered by the
Surya Loka people; but when we analyse their
powers and will-force, we come to the
conclusion that the authorities are justified in
putting their confidence in them. One might
perhaps argue that if such a monopolistic
position is enjoyed by them, other spirits would
not get chances to show their worth. But if
they have failed to come up to the fifth-plane
level, there is no reason why they should
grumble about the absence of opportunities
- A DAY IN THE LIFE OF A SPIRIT
127
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
offered to them.
Attendance on Gods: So far, we have been
describing duties which relate to general
administration. There are other duties how­
ever which do not come under this classifica­
tion; but it would be out of place to discuss
all such duties. W e shall, therefore take up
only a few of them. One of the most
important of such duties is attendance on
gods. Perhaps at this juncture, it might be
expedient to define a god, or a divine soul.
The point as a matter of fact will come for
discussion towards the end of this book. But
it will serve our purpose for the time being to
define them as souls who have been able to
conquer the weaker side of human nature and
to that extent are free from worldly desires.
Self-control and service dominate their lives
and we call them gods. Such beings who have
proved themselves worthy of guiding other
spirits’ destinies are naturally over burdened
with work, and do require some other spirits
to help them in carrying out the duties
entrusted to them. It is desirable to eliminate
the illusion about attendance on gods, because
in Indian mythology, the picture is penned in
such a way that we are led to believe that gods
require the attendance of spirits to look a'fter
their personal comforts. This is erroneous
because gods never require spirits to look after
them. On the contrary they always advocate
128
the true spirit of service. It is only in their
official capacity that they seek other spirits’
kelp. Even for this work, nobody is forced
to help them, and the service is absolutely
voluntary. Very often it is difficult to select
workers because there are many spirits who
offer their services; and here also the fifth plane
soul gets preferential treatment.
Petty investigations: In the preceding
paragraph, we said that gods require some
help and it is very common that such aid is
necessary in solving problems which confront
every plane. This duty thus in a way falls
under the classification of domestic or local
duties. It should not be supposed that petty
investigations are not carried on by the Court;
we find as a matter of fact that a large number
o f spirits are used by the court for this
purpose. The work does not call for high
intellectual powers and any willing worker is
allowed to do it. After the inquiry is over,
the spirit concerned is asked to give a complete
report of it and it is here that we find that
some spirits fail to carry out the work entrusted
t o . them. But the consequences are not
serious, because this work does not deal with
important problems. In a way it trains up
spirits to perform responsible duties.
Visit to the World: So far as the life of
spirits is concerned, there is no reason why
they should go to the world of the living.
A DAY IN THE LIFE OF A SPIRIT
129
Nature does not desire that there should be
any active and close touch between the living
and the dead. But this should in no way
convey the wrong and sometimes popular
idea that God is against such communications.
The only thing that the Court authorities main­
tain is that there being no need of maintaining
such a touch, they need not facilitate such
meetings. A t the same time, they express
their willingness if such meetings could be
conveniently arranged, and that too without
disturbing the spirits from the duties assigned
to them. Thus if we were to analyse these
words, or rather read between the lines, it is
dear that they do not give any active support
to either mediums or spirits. Even the reward,
which mediums get for doing this work is very
little. But taking things as they are, it seems
to me that it is the duty of those who have the
power to invoke spirits to devote some time
from their leisure moments for mutual,
advantage. But some might doubt my words,
because they might be holding that no mutual
advantage ensues from such spiritual meetings.
I do not want to challenge their doubts, but I
would request them to imbibe the ideal o f
service either to the dead or to the living.
Looking at the more practical side of the
question, we find that there are enough spirits
and mediums to hold frequent and successful
sittings and the part played by the professional
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
130
class is also considerable. Some of the intel­
ligent spirits make it a point to use a certain
part of their spare time in going to various
mediums. If we were to take my case, I devote
roughly 4 to 5 hours per day among my
mediums. The same is the case with spirits
who take a very active part in the life of the
spirits. But, it is difficult to measure the gain
obtained by such spirits, because no concrete
profit can ever be obtained through these
meetings. If these meetings were a normal
phenomena, people would not have mixed up
the idea of profit; but as it is, we give an
abnormal colour to a simple event. We must
therefore make it absolutely clear that such a
meeting is just an ordinary meeting and cannot
possibly admit of any idea of gain. Gradually,
people are realising that spirits are not superior
to human beings; on the contrary, they are
deprived of certain powers which the living
persons possess. Further, we find that roughly
70 per cent of the spirits are called by mediums
or they have managed to talk with a medium
some time in their lives. W e will rarely find a
spirit who has not been called by a medium.
Why is this? The reason is clear enough,
Every spirit after departing from the world of
the living, has a lurking desire to be in touch
with a living person and preferably with a
relative or a friend, and this instinct is always
strong among most spirits. This is why
A DAY IN THE LIFE OF A SPIRIT
1
3
1
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
nearly all spirits are eager to catch the first
opportunity which they come across to
establish communication with the Irving. It
is also true that there are some spirits who
hate going to mediums; they, by their very
nature, are reserved and never feel like talking
for a long time. The number of such spirits
is however very small. Furthermore, we find
that there are certain mediums who persist
in maintaining touch with one particular
spirit only; but that is not very desirable, for
.after some time they know each other so well
that it does not prove very useful to either of
the parties. It is in the interest of all to call
various spirits; and spirits should also make it
-a point to have as many medium friends as
possible. In this way the two worlds will tend
to become one unit and there will be no large
gaps between the two types of persons o f the
same Creator. In a way this book is designed
to fill in an important gap in the systematic
literature relating to the life in the other world.
Spirit-communications are not yet perfect and
that is the cause why many people doubt the
very existence of spirits and why those too
who agree to talk with them get disappointed
when they are not able to get details o f the
spirits* past life, little realising the short­
comings of the spirits. It is certain
that the mechanism is not fool proof
and to a small degree impersonation
132
A DAY IN THE LIFE OF A SPIRIT
is practised. But it is also true that such occurr­
ences are not many in so far as the number of
such spirits is not large. Fun can only exist
for a short time and therefore long drawn
sittings are very probably genuine. To sum
up,, such meetings between mediums and
spirits are very practicable and both the worlds
should co-operate in devising a perfect method,
of making such talks as successful as possible.
Peep into the Future: It is a popular belief
that spirits or dead persons’ souls are superior
to human beings and attain divine powers.
People seem to assume that as soon as the
soul goes to the other world, it gains an insight
into the past, present and future and thus
becomes a person who can foresee all future
events at a moment’s notice. But, when we
come to concrete facts, we must realise that
the soul does not get this insight and he remains
where he was; even his mental powers do not
increase. On the contrary, I am afraid, he loses
some of his mental abilities and his memory
is definitely shorter than before. Some of you
might be startled to realise the really limited
extent of the powers of spirits: but when once
you come to realise this, you will agree with
me that spirits are not in a position to predict
future events. The belief that they are in a
better position to guess the future is more or
less correct. They, being in an unbiased state
of'mind, can look forward without fear or
133
favour and to that extent their guesses may
be correct. But, this is possible only when the
full data are laid open before a spirit who is
willing to think over the material so presented
to him. Ill-planned data or concealed facts
are a severe handicap to the spirit concerned.
Further, if a particular spirit is consulted very
often, he gradually develops a bias towards
that party and ultimately his guesses become
mixed products of judgment and favour or
prejudice. Assuming for a moment, that the
guess is unbiased, even then the probability
o f their turning out correct is hardly 50 per
cent. This particular work is not the normal
function of the spirits and that is the reason
why we should not blame them for their
guesses being incorrect. A t the same
time, there is no objection if such
guesses are taken in a lighter mood and treated
as semi-jokes.
Daily Routine: Every life is wedded to a
routine and in a way a routine is an inseparable
accident which the human and the spirit lives
have to experience. Human life is known to
us and I need not describe its routine; but we
shall now take up the spiritual life, as it is
from day to day. Spirits like human, beings
also need some rest and they utilise night for
that purpose. Rest is not to be confounded
with sleep because spirits having no bodily
existence are not in a position to sleep. Their
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
134
A DAY IN THE LIFE OF A SPIRIT
mind gets tired and therefore some rest is
inevitable. The period of rest varies from
spirit to spirit; but a normal spirit requires
about 6 to 7 hours’ rest at a stretch. Assuming
that our average spirit had a rest of say 7 hours
from 12 to 7, he is up at 7 A . M. He is of
course not worried about the cares of the body;
and the first thing a spirit does in the morning
is to worship his deity or God. This is in a
way obligatory on all spirits except the
elementals, the idea being to make spirits
healthy-minded. This roughly takes an hour.
After this, the ordinary spirit has no particular
work and therefore there can be no routine
similar for all. Some of them while away
their time in talking among themselves, while
there are some who feel delighted in moving
about in their plane. Some, who have friends
in other planes, go to them or call them; those
who have appointments with mediums go to
them. In this manner they spend their morn­
ings. It is obvious that spirits who have special
duties to perform at once attend to them from
the morning. When the Court opens, many
spirits go there and hear trials. The Court has
long hours of work and spirits can go there at
any time during the day, though the popular
time is from 12 noon to 4 P. M. Over ana
above these ways of utilising the free time
which spirits get, they usually devote
their time to peace by resting in their
135
particular plane. They do not keep
themselves occupied for the whole day;
yet spirits who are by their very nature indus­
trious and active are always found busy and
many of them go actually to the human world,
especially in the evenings and afternoons.
Perhaps this may sound a bit absurd. A spirit
does not come down to the world when he
desires to talk with a medium, and one may
•
wonder why spirits should use their evenings
in visiting the Earth; but the reason is quite
clear; most spirits have finished their allotted
tasks and the Court session being nearly at
an end, it is very convenient to have a stroll
then. Some spirits who have multifarious
activities often find no time for such a migra­
tion and on the contrary, use it for attending
to their mediums. At night time the principal
activity is to give reports. Those who are
engaged in the investigation department are
busy during the early hours of the night; but
the others who have done a good day’s work
rightly earn a good rest. Among the activities
during the night time, lectures and stories
form an important part, because out of so
many spirits there are certain persons who
come forward to deliver some lectures. Others
who find their mind better suited to higher
and intellectual topics, begin some friendly
debates or discussions on various topics; while,
those who are not inclined to tax their brains
136
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
either with sedate lectures or controversial
debates, take pleasure in the popular pastime
of talking. This gives an idea of the routine
day-to-day life of the spirit-identities and.
departures from this routine are rare indeed.
A DAY IN THE LIFE OF A SPIRIT
137
CHAPTER VJ!
THE BONDS WITH THE W ORLD
Wordly nffretion*— Ch.nrn:<- «f »pli-r«- «ft.-r
dcnth— Influence of on I'-rop-rom-nt c {
spirits— Condition of feelings li<-forr d<-n»li— M*diut-«
and coldnm* of spirits— Unfulfilled desires— Slir.-tddf,.-,
and the progress of spirit*— Blood-relations s»hd
friends— Attraction at first *i(tht.
"Wordly affections: Human existence has
its own charms spoken o f as mays by the
Indians or worldly bonds by the English-speak­
ing people. These words, so far as I know,
are used in such a way that their real meaning
is obscure to us and the more we try to
understand their significance the greater is
the confusion caused. The situation created is
not a happy one. Viewed from a practical
point of view, it is nothing but the outcome
of close and continued association with certain
persons. Seeds of good relation are sown and
the ultimate result is that we get ourselves so
-closely associated, attracted and bound up that
life without certain persons becomes next to
impossible. In this way, I have tried to explain
the origin of worldy bonds. It is however not
certain whether these relationships are the
138
result of accident or brought about in some
other manner. To me, it appears that the birth
factor plays an increasingly important part
and broadly speaking, worldly bonds are
largely circumscribed by the conditions in
which a particular soul is placed. At the
same time, we should not ignore the factor of
human design. At the present moment the
circumstances are such that man tends to defy
natural relationships and form other relations
which cannot be regarded normal. To give
you an example, in the western countries, we
find that the collective ideal has been replaced
by the individualistic ideal and the bonds of
the joint family system are practically becom­
ing things of the past. In eastern countries
however the philosophy of individual welfare
has not caught the public fancy to that extent
and the old natural bonds are more or less still
intact. Thus a father loves his son even
though he may be mature enough and
considers it his duty to protect him still. In
this way the bread-winner considers himself
the pivot of the whole family and, for his whole
life, labours hard to protect the members. In
view however of the developments in modern
times, it is evident that friends play a very
important part in human attractions. Those
people who are either not fortunate in having
a family life or rather those who have a house
but not a home are naturally found to be
THE BONDS WITH THE WORLD
139
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
keenly interested in their friends. There are
thus two types of bonds: one which arises on
account of conditions of birth and the second
one on account of relations which are formed
by human efforts. But usually marriage forms
a third type of bond, and it is a class by itself,
because we thereby turn a friend into a rela­
tive and the bond is different from the other
two described before.
Change of Sphere after Death: Life in the
world marks a stage only if we consider the
aggregate life of a soul, both the mortal and
spiritual together, because death does not
mean an end of the person in the real sense.
With this idea in our mind, we naturally feel
anxious to know whether the soul keeps up its
past relations. This is a point which has con­
fused many brains and I am afraid no clear-
cut reply is likely to be given in this book.
But it can be safely asserted that death, even
though it may not signify an end, does mark
a very definite and a strong change in the soul’s
life. This change is better described by saying
that after death, there is a change of sphere
in the soul's life and this accounts for the fact
that old bonds are not kept up and the soul has
to leave the world completely. All the same,
though it is not absolutely impossible to
maintain the old relationships, it certainly does
require a very strong degree of feelings to
keep up some part of these even after death.
140
THE BONDS WITH THE WORLD
In case of ,ordinary people, however, death
casts a curtain over the past life severing all
old connections.
. Influence of Planes on Temperament of
spirits: Tracing further the analysis of human
relations, we have to consider the part which
different planes play in the life of spirits. In
the first plane, we know that there are two
types of spirits. O f these, the elementals
have very strong relations . with the world.
This is possible because they have some more
powers than other spirits; mediums also stand
to gain for some time at least by establishing
connections with them. Mutual advantage
therefore strengthens the bonds between them.
But these bonds are those after death and it is
very doubtful whether these spirits care to
strengthen their old relations. It is certainly
true that if an opportunity occurs, they are
very glad to meet their old friends or relatives
and are ready to help them as. far as it lies in
their powers. Very often attempts are made
by them to ask their dear ones to meet them. In
this way, the bonds do not get? effaced at least
among the elementals. If we consider other
class of spirits in this plane, they have not
the brain power to form any relations and if
these were formed, their desires being weak,
they cannot remember anything of the past
life. Worldly affections among the second
class of the first-plane-spirits are thus very
141 ,
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
loose and sentiment is absent in their lives.
In the second plane, or the Bhuloka, wc
know that there are spirits who are below the
average in their brain power but are a bit better
than their counterpart in the Patala. Their
desires are weak and their powers of attraction
very little and few mediums care to talk with
them. In this case, feelings do exist, but they
are nearly dormant and only in exceptional
cases, we find some satisfactory expression of
feelings, though it must be noted that these
spirits are not, by their very nature, cold.
In the third plane we have a class of spirits
who represent the average or the middle class,
and here we find the normal human bonds
too. Most of the spirits are fairly intelligent,
and have to a certain extent, developed
independent thinking and have certain likes
and dislikes. They are persons who always
cherish the memories of their life in the world
and are always fond of remembering their
relatives and friends as far as it is possible to
do so. But there is not that fervent desire
which is found among the fifth-plane-spirits
and the memory is, also, not strong. In this
way, the spirits of the Tapaloka are always
found making an attempt to maintain a verj'
close touch with the world and if they get
suitable mediums, they are able to respond
fairly well.
In the Chandra loka, we find spirits who
142
THE BONDS WITH THE WORLD
have had a successful life and therefore are
found feeling happy about it. But, at the
same time, the quality of ambition being not
strong, they are satisfied with what they have
achieved. As regards their feelings, they
always have tried to be very calm and collected
and therefore the expression which they give
to them is so mild that some may consider
them heartless, while others may class them as
fatalists. I, for one, feel that their balanced
nature is so closely associated with reason
that feelings find no prominent place in their
actions.
In the illustrious plane, which is called the
Surya Loka, the all-pervading and guiding
force is ambition. In psychological science,
we are given to understand that the stronger
the ambition, the greater the strength of
feelings and with this dictum I agree
completely. Among the spirits of this plane,
we find therefore that feelings play a very
important part in their lives. There is a
fervent desire for progress and this in its turn
leads them to create new bonds of affection;
but their brain power being very strong, their
memory is exceedingly sharp, and the old
bonds are not' easily forgotten. Coldness is
a quality unknown to them and they have
very strong likes and dislikes. They have
very good friends; but at the same time, they
have an army of enemies too. Furthermore,
143
most of them being somewhat connected with
the administrative authorities, they find it very
easy to get suitable mediums and this makes
it possible for them to maintain the old
associations. Their desire to meet people of
the world should, however, on no account, be
confounded with the similar desire of third-
plane-spirits, which are the desires of fond­
ness, not of ambition. Spirits of the Surya
loka are always keen on meeting people who
are above the average or those who have
achieved some success in the material world
and this attitude on their part often invites
unwarranted criticism o f being regarded as
•either status-or intelligence-snobs; but, this
is not true in so far as such ah attitude is
justified on account of the fact that the idea
behind it is one of progress. It cannot be
denied however that very often the old bonds
have to be neglected on the ground of inferior
status or brain power. But this is inevitable.
In the sixth stage of the spiritual ladder, we
rfind. that there is an apparently backward
march, the Surya-loka denoting the climax.
But this statement is far from the truth. It is
however certain that in this stage bonds
"become very loose and the tendency of spirits
is towards spiritual advancement, completely
■neglecting the material side. One of the
striking features in this plane is coldness which
is the dominating trait. All talk o f past
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
144
THE BONDS WITH THE WORLD
relationship is thus out of place; feelings do
not play any important part in their lives.
They are always eager to avoid people who
would drag them to wordly desires. In this,
nature seems to help them, for their memory
also gets stable as it were and they very easily
forget their past relatives and friends.
It would be presumptuous on my part to
gauge the feelings of persons in the seventh
stage who are god-like. Perhaps I do not
possess enough powers to read their minds;
but it is agreed on all hands that they are free
from maya or wordly temptations. I am afraid,
however, maya has its sway even upon them
sometimes. Their feelings cannot find a
suitable expression because mediums have
either not the powers to call them or they have
not got the necessary courage to face them.
They speak very little and it is not proper for
us to make surmises about these high souls.
Condition of feelings before death: During
the life of every man, there are occasions
which rouse his feelings; but in all cases the
intensity is not the same; because every man
has a different temperament. But death is
such a unique incident that all people
experience the same type of feelings irrespec­
tive of their nature. People, who in their
lifetime may have even conceived a disgust
for worldly life, never wish to leave the world.
Even those who have renounced the world
145
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
forget their philosophy o f life and become
purely material. Family ties and affections
become absolutely fresh before the eyes of the
dying person. His love and care for them
become very strong and if he is surrounded
by members of his or her family, the feelings
are so strong that none but a dying person can
realise them. Those who have many friends
in the same way remember them with the
same intensity of feelings. All this is very
natural and yet one thing which one could,
desire is that God should have devised some
method by which a dying person can over­
come these feelings. It is absolutely necessary,
because as it is the pain of death is
very little, but for these intensified feelings.
Even after the death of a particular person,
such strong feelings continue to remain strong
for some time. The pain of parting gradually
diminishes and the horror of death being over,
the soul gets cooler than before. He gets
settled soon and is able to cope with the new
situation easily and in a few days, normal
feelings begin to guide his life. But the time
taken to regain this normal position depends
more upon the temperament of the person
concerned rather than the nature of his death.
Mediums and Coldness of Spirits: The
picture which is just put before you should
make you believe that in the world of the dead,
the chief quality is all pervading coldness.
146
THE BONDS WITH THE WORLD
What is the reason? Perhaps, the explanation
is that even among living persons, such cold­
ness does prevail and this should not be
forgotten when we think of the feelings of the
dead. Very frequently, it happens that people
who call their relatives after their death expect
them to be warmer than before. Perhaps,
some persons will not agree but this is the
expert psychological view. Now some feel
that the only agency which can remove this
coldness is that of the mediums. But I do not
see any reason why mediums should bother
about the feelings of their friends’ or clients’
relatives; and sometimes it may look indecent
also. It is not possible to remove coldness if
it is real; but the only thing which mediums
can do is to acquaint their customers or friends
with the facts which are already explained
before, and also give a clear idea of the short­
comings of the spiritual talk. Very often the
sitting appears cold on account of the fact
that the visitor is not free in talking in the
presence of strangers or he is not able to adapt
himself to the new circumstances. In these
conditions, a good medium by his powers of
explanation makes the sitting more successful
and to this extent, he can remove coldness.
Unfulfilled Desires: So far we have talked
of the feelings of persons who had led a normal
life which in a way can be regarded as success­
ful. In such circumstances, most of the
147
worldly desires are satisfied and in a way the
person is ready to meet his end- But, in the
imperfect human world, there are certain
persons whose lives are not normal and they
-die at a time when they are not prepared to
face the inevitable death. When they die,
their mission of life remains unfulfilled and
their desires unsatisfied. They are naturally
most reluctant to leave the world. Moreover,
if some of them meet with an unnatural death,
the strength of unfulfilled desires is extremely
great. Sometimes when even everything is
normal, a particular problem may be facing
that person and this may create a state of
unstable equilibrium for leaving the world.
The complications of these abnormal circum­
stances are however not severe, inasmuch as
in most cases, it is very difficult to procure a
suitable agency to maintain the old relation­
ship. Even if some of them can find a
medium, that medium may not be in a position
to bring about the reunion. Further, the dead
person realising his or her inability to do
anything towards the achievement of those
objects assumes an air of contentment, and
gradually their unfulfilled desires become a
thing of the past, and the spirit begins to take
interest in the new surroundings in which he
resides. Further, people who die an unnatural
death sometimes crave to go back to the world
and for days together make serious attempts
148
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
THE BONDS WITH THE WORLD
to do so; but in every case time is the best
cure, and gradually these excited feelings cool
down and normal conditions prevail. But
the only significant fact about these abnormal
cases is that after their death, they take some
months to settle down and to this extent, they
are regarded unhappy.
S
h
r
a
d
d
h
a a
n
d th
e p
ro
g
re
ss of spirits:*
Among the Hindus, there are certain
ceremonies which a living person performs
for the dead one to help him in his spiritual
life. I am not a Hindu and therefore I do not
,know all the details about those ceremonies;
but the outstanding among them is the
Shraddha ceremony. It is the annual offering
given to the dead so as to satisfy him, but in
which respect the satisfaction is necessary is-
not made clear. But it seems to me that the
original idea was to appease the departed
persons’ unfulfilled desires by trying to satisfy
some needy person in that direction. Thus,
for example, in a case of a person whose chief
attention was centred in eating good food
the relatives try to satisfy that desire by feed­
ing poor persons. In the light of the
information available to the spirits, all have
agreed that such actions do not in any way
satisfy the unfulfilled desires of the dead,'nor
*Tliu paragraph was dictated by Sir Arthur in reply
to an issue raised by me as to the possibility of actions on
the part o f the living doing good to the so u Ib of the
departed.
149
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
do they help their further progress. The only
benefit which accrues to the dead is that he
feels that his relatives have not totally
forgotten him. A t the same time, the living
persons derive some satisfaction in trying to
help their dear ones. But, if a person knowing
all these facts continues to perform the old
ceremonies, 1 am sure he is not getting an
adequate return and the best way would be
to discontinue such practices.
Blood-relations and friends: The general
genesis of bonds with the world has been
discussed before. But most of you are
perhaps anxious to know whether near
relatives or properly speaking blood-relations
take an active interest in the persons they
have left behind and further, whether they
attempt to better the prospects of their relatives
in the living world. It must be stated that
the spiritual planes have a very strong
influence on the dead persons; but broadly
speaking, blood relationships, like that of the
father and the son, brother and sister, mother
and son or daughter, are difficult to be broken
up at once and to dilute such feelings, there is
the need of the time element which varies
from one to five years according to the nature
o f the person concerned. But all these feelings
are only fond affections which do not
materialise into action. In case o f friends,
the whole problem depends upon the intimacy
150
I'r.tu-.rPTioN
whether something can he knmvn these are usually t.intamoi
doubts as to whether we can have the right to he sure of such t
A person who forecasted the future correctly time after tit
examining the leaves in a teacup would he said to know w
going to happen only in so far as we would he prepared to sa
his unusual method gave him the right to he sure that those t
were going to happen. The debate as to whether he know
future is a debate as to whether his evidence is sufficient t«
him the right to be sure.
So in discussing our knowledge of the external world I sh
concentrating on our right to he sure of the things we are s
know. Epistemologically speaking, this is the important th:
1 0 . 4 A X A N A L Y S I S O f K N O W L E D G E
Knowledge involves more than truth and the right to be Sur
was told as a child that my great great grandfather was an,
man but have long since forgotten this I cannot be said to kr
nor to have the right to be sure in any sense in which the ri
be sure, plus truth, is sufficient for knowledge. We need
further condition for knowledge which will clarify the not
having the right to be sure by showing when the right to l
gives us knowledge.
I think this third condition will be a variable one. In our ?
quiz example we said that there was a sense in which the con
knew the answer to the question. But there is also a sense in'
he did not know the answer, or else he should have been gi\
prize. It is natural to speak of types or levels of knowledg
with the ‘leycl’ of knowledge’ depending on which form
, third condition is satisfied. At the lowest level of know.?
the sense of ‘know’ in which the contestant did know the a
what is necessary is that the person be able to recognize th'
in question as true, even though he may be unable to offer i
truth until someone reminds him (I do not 1 * *
great grandfather was an Irishman t
15°
Between them and if the bonds of friendship
are so strong as to resemble blood-relationship,
the above facts apply to them with equal force.
Attraction at first sight: In almost all cases,
we can find instances where a particular
person feels that he should develop friendly
relations with a person whom he has seen
hardly for a few minutes and sometimes, the
reverse feelings also spring up. In most cases,
the other party shows a like response. What
is the cause which can explain this attraction
or repulsion at first sight? It has no spiritual
background and the living persons should be
able to analyse it. But if my analysis is
correct, God has gifted us with the power of
finding one’s own level in the sense that we
can at once make out a person’s characteristics
and we get attracted to those who resemble
us. In a similar way, repulsion can be
explained. Some may try to . correlate these
attractions and repulsions with past life’s
associations, but this is not true .
THE BONDS WITH THE WORLD
1
5
1
CHAPTER VIII
THE POWERS AND DISABILITIES OF
SPIRITS
Mental powers— General— Elementals and haunt­
ing— Evil consequences of help from elementals— O r­
dinary spirits— Higher spirits: Inspiration— A d­
vice— Guesses about future— Access to divine
souls— Medium’s influence— Materialisation— Details
of next birth— Attendance on mediums— Vision— Pro­
duction of sound— Memory— Knowledge of past
birth— Transmission of news— Boons— Spirits among
themselves— impersonation and misleading.
Mental Powers— General: In the preceding
chapters, you must have seen that though
spirits are deprived of their physical senses,
they do retain their mental powers. It is natural
that the spirit-identity which is a minor part o f
the whole soul cannot be expected to possess
the same amount of ability and memory after
death. The ebb is, however, not so marked and
the identity faithfully retains much of the
former ability and memory. Yet, in many cases,
even a casual observer finds that detailed infor­
mation cannot be obtained from the spirits;
and an atmosphere of vagueness pervades
spirit-communications. This tendency is all the
more pronounced on account of the fact that
152
THE POWERS AND DISABILITIES OF SPIRITS
mediums in general fail to translate all the
information imparted by spirits. These are,
in general'the short-comings which affect the
mental powers of all the spirits.
Elemental and Haunting: Some may
include the elementals among the spirits. But
I have always regarded them as something
different and for the purposes of this book,
spirits do hot cover these elementals. As we
have seen before, these identities have more
powers than average spirits. What are the
causes which make them powerful is not
known to most of the spirits and I also do not
profess to know all the details about them.
But, it is certain that, these souls somehow or
other manage to retain full mental pbwers
with a sharp memory. And, further, they
can do certain things which persons with
physical senses can only perform. I really
do not know what powers act as such fine
substitutes of physical powers. It may be
that these persons while alive were excep­
tionally brilliant and had developed a strong
and sturdy power, which seems to serve their
purpose even after their death. It goes
without .saying that all their ability is mis­
directed and they prefer to use their powers;
to achieve things which a person with good,
and moral ideas would hate. In this manner,
we see that elementals are quite distinct from,
spirits and our ignorance about such people
153
is also pardonable because none of us would
be willing to mix with them. W e have often
heard of people mistaking elemcntals for
spirits and they loosely say that spirits can
haunt. But, it should be made clear that
■spirits cannot and do not haunt, even though
their desires are not satisfied. It is only an
elemental who is capable of haunting,
especially when his desires are not satisfied.
Haunting has usually a bad odour, because
it directly implies the element of injury to
some person through the agency of the ele­
mental. There cannot be haunting without
a bad motive and thus two facts are insepar­
able. Some of my mediums have often
expressed their desire to meet an elemental;
but the above facts being rigid, it is most
inadvisable to do so.
Haunting may take various shapes. But, in
any form, it is an act of the elemental which
may be performed on his own account or on
account of his medium. The elemental is
capable of coming down to the earth and
being empowered to remove things or create
various noises, he is able to frighten the
person whom he desires to trouble. Further,
b e is in a position to materialise and this act
■of his is bound to give a very rude shock to
the person who has the misfortune to come
into contact with him. The feeling of revenge
is so pronounced among the elementals that
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
154
THE POWERS AND DISABILITIES OF SPIRITS
they go to the extent of troubling the person
daily and bring about an end of life which
however does not come soon, and as it were,
death is spread over a few years.
Evil consequences of help from clementals:
The facts which I have stated just now have
been known to people in some form or other;
and they call the person who invokes such
clementals as either a magician or a wicked
person under the control of Satan as it were.
Even in Indian mythology, this art was called
wicked. Yet, all descriptions about the
elementals tend to give us an idea of the
enormous powers possessed by them. Even,
at the present time, you may come across
persons who are directly in touch with very
powerful elementals. Some of you may ask
why should people aspire to be in touch with
these elementals who in the end are bound
to bring about their ruin. The reason lies in
the fact that human nature is not gencrallj'
able to resist the temptations which cross its
path. The aid which an elemental can render
is beyond description; no living person can
get a clear idea about their powers and abili­
ties; but it can be stated with confidence that
they very often can perform things which
neither human beings nor divine beings can
normally do. To give you some idea of their
powers, it may be mentioned here that they
are able to bring about the death of any person
155
they like. Further, obtaining of riches and
wealth is also very easy for them. T o bring
information from distant places, which is not
known, because of its being kept secret or
otherwise, is also within their powers. The
only thing that they cannot do is to change
the other important incidents of either the
medium’s life or that of the person suggested
by the medium. Thus, for example, if a
medium who is in touch with an elemental
is ill, no powers of the elemental can relieve
him of the sufferings and to this extent, the
powers of the elemental cannot be a substi­
tute for divine powers. With the assistance
of elementals every conceivable material
prosperity can be secured; but the price
would be too high in the end.
Ordinary spirits: In some connection or
the other, we have spoken about the average
spirit. But here a few words may be added
to complete the picture. When a person dies,
he is shorn of all powers except the mental
ones which even are not allowed to remain
at their former level. But, more or less, these
powers are not taken away. The popular
idea is that the dead person’s spirit after
undergoing a change is better equipped with
the powers of thinking, judging and predicting.
But I will again repeat that they are just the
same, not one ounce more than before, so far
as the mental powers are concerned; and
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
156
THE POWERS AND DISABILITIES OF SPIRITS
when the mind is deprived of the co-operation
of other physical powers, it is very likely to be a
bit inefficient in performance.
Higher Spirits. Inspiration: So far we have
devoted our time to thinking about the powers
o f ordinary spirits. But when we think of
spirits who have advanced both spiritually
and mentally, we find that they are endowed
with one very important power and that is of
inspiring others. Many of the mediums think
that all spirits in general should be able to
inspire; but they are mistaken, in so far as it
requires a very high degree of mental
efficiency to perform the work properly and,
furthermore, it necessitates a continued and
a very powerful effort on the part of the spirit
concerned.' This seemingly easy work of
inspiring is as a matter of fact a very difficult
task. But spirits who are in the fifth plane
or above are generally able to do so. It is
recognised however on all hands that the
desire to inspire springs only when the spirits’
feelings are aroused. Thus for example if a
particular soul is interested in some person
living in the world, he can inspire him to
perform a certain thing or to abstain from
doing so. It very often happens that he may
fail to inspire if all the circumstances are not
favourable. The first requisite of successfully
performing the work is that the party beyond
the world of the dead should be efficient
157
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
enough to catch the suggestions from the
world beyond. Other spirits can also inspire,
but they use their powers in few cases. In
their case, the chance of failure is small. But
some of you may feel that in the present state
of spiritual development, there are mediums
who can do the work better. But they fail
to realise that the spirits can only talk when
the mediums desire, while if they can inspire,
the need of this intermediate agency is
removed, and the spirits can communicate
their ideas whenever they like. But I have
told you before, the authorities here are not
at all keen on such free and intimate relations
being established between the two worlds.
Advice: It is natural that souls who
advance further both spiritually and mate­
rially are equipped with high mental powers.
They have a trained memory and in their
various lives have faced problems which can
be regarded as fairly complex and difficult of
solution. In a word, they have seen the
world completely and their mind is moulded
by vast and rich experience. Naturally such
spirits can judge things in a most rational
way and keep their heads cool, while discuss­
ing even the most controversial points.
Rashness and haste are not in their nature.
Further, the power of analysis is so well
developed that every problem set to them
appears simple. These spirits when interested
158
THE POWERS AND DISABILITIES OF SPIRITS
in either certain persons or certain topics can
use their ability to a great extent and, thus,
give very good advice to people on friendly
terms with them. The great quality which is
found in them is unbiassed judgment and.
clear criticism.
Guesses about future: The popular idea o f
spirits knowing the future is wrong. But it
may be said that some spirits do attempt to
predict and that they are fairly successful.
The explanation lies in the fact that though
no predicting is possible, nearly correct guess­
ing is not difficult under certain circumstances,
the important factors being the high mental
powers of the spirit, his experience in that
direction, and his ability to remain unbiassed.
Most of the spirits of the Surya loka are in a
position to satisfy these conditions, but they
are not ready to use their brains in things
without any foundations, and it is difficult to
get reliable spirits to use their powers in this
particular direction. But there are some
spirits who in their lighter moods do indulge
in this interesting pastime and some of them,
being really gifted with the above mentioned
abilities, prove very useful to persons who
by chance happen to call them. It must be
remembered however that no great weight
should be attached to what they say and the
best way is to treat their words with caution
and care.
159
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
Access to divine souls: These high spirits
are either in the fifth, sixth or the seventh
plane and on account of the status they hold
they enjoy certain privileges, the chief among
which is permission to approach divine souls.
The words “ divine soul” do not include the
Creator himself, but his representatives only.
Thus all these spirits can see the God of Death
or the Yama Raj himself and other divinities,
but not the all-pervading God. In case of
spirits who are in the seventh stage and who
are awaiting salvation, an exception is made
sometimes, though such incidents are very rare.
A s a matter of fact, I have often endeavoured
to meet God Himself, but I have never been
successful so far. Even those who get an
audience with God are never able to discuss
anything, because He never enters into any
discussion and the period is so short that the
spirit may at the most state his problem or
grievance as the case may be. Be it said to
the credit of Yama Raj however that he grants
a free interview where there is no limitation
of time and he is ready to prove his point.
Other divinities are generally kind and they
give a patient hearing though, in all these
cases, redress of grievances, either personal
or collective, is not common, because they, in
general, maintain that the whole machinery
is perfect and there should be no cause for
complaint, and whatever appears to us as
160
troubles is ascribed to the lack of correct
realisation of the real situation. We are asked,
to believe that we have no reason to complain
and that we must surrender ourselves before
the mighty Soul who has no doubts about
the wisdom of what is done either by Him
or His agents. But, I beg to differ, even
though I have the misfortune to differ from
my Creator. I am, in a way, not free to give
my reasons for differing from such a Great
Authority nor have I definite proofs to
establish the fact of imperfection that prevails
here. "v
Medium’s Influence: It has been an
established fact that all spirits of the dead
world of seven planes can be invoked by
mediums including the elementals even. Some
of us think that when a particular spirit is
invoked, he must come; this however is not
correct, because after all friendly relationship
depends on mutual willingness and if a spirit
does not want to come, he can most easily
defy a medium’s call. The analogy of a tele­
phone is correct here because it is just like
receiving a call and then breaking off the
connection. It is however true that nobody
can prevent a medium from calling a spirit,
but if we talk of normal circumstances, we
find that most of the spirits are very keen to
talk with mediums; on the contrary their
desire to talk is not adequately satisfied. But
THE POWERS AND DISABILITIES OF SPIRITS
161
TH E GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
I have seen, spirits who are, by their nature,
•very reserved and feel very unhappy when
they are made to talk. With some spirits the
•communal or the feeling of being say a
.European or an Indian is so strong that an
Indian spirit does not like to respond to the
-call of an English medium and the converse
is also true. The weaknesses o f human
nature are also present in the spirits and dis-
-crimination among mediums and spirits is
therefore unavoidable to a large extent. But
it may be stated that if a medium is o f a
tolerant disposition spirits of all kinds would
like to meet him. Further, we find that
-nowadays better relationship exists between
-spirits and mediums of different nationalities.
. Materialisation: In the Introduction w e said
.something about materialisation and, if I
mistake not, I have given you some rough
idea of the whole phenomenon and it is no
use repeating the same. It must be admitted
ihat all spirits are not gifted with the power
to materialise. Elementals, who are very
powerful, are invariably successful in taking
■a shape; but other normal spirits are not able
to condense the necessary vapour to take
some concrete form. No particular plane is
endowed with this power. But, in practically
every loka, there are stray cases of spirits who
•can materialise; but, even among them, we
hnd that they are not invariably successful
162
in taking the form. Those spirits, who can
materialise, are besides not in a position to
take the same form every time and the spirit
in the material form is not able to give out
his identity. Thus if the spirit of say Mr. X,
were to materialise, he might not resemble
the physical form of Mr. X. and I would go
a step further and say that the material shape
may not resemble a physical human form and
as a matter of fact the form has no clear cut
outline, and it is very difficult to give an idea
of an ever-changing mass of vapour. Further­
more, some of the advanced spirits have even
said that a real spirit should never desire to
have any form and should constantly avoid
materialisation. It is a sign of backwardness
to hanker after a thing which shows that the
spirit is not free from worldly desires, and is
still a worshipper of Maya. The higher a
soul rises, the weaker is the desire for any
form. I have also thought over these words
very often. If examples were to be considered
correct, it is a fact that low-bred spirits or
unhappy spirits usually materialise; a good
and a noble spirit does not care to do so. My
line of argument is not on the desirability or
otherwise, but on ability of otherwise. A
powerful spirit, if he wants to show his ability
to materialise, should be able to do so; but as
the matter stands, even fairly powerful spirits
fail to do so in spite of very strong desires
THE POWERS AND DISABILITIES OF SPIRITS
163
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
to achieve those powers. When I was dis­
cussing this point with Yama Raj, he told me?
that materialisation was a degrading
phenomenon for a Surya-loka spirit and he
advised me to think o f the final merger and '
to abandon all ideas of individual existence.
My point still centres round the inability o f
good spirits to take a form even for the sake
of convincing the people in the world o f
the living of the existence of spirits. But it
is no use thinking of a thing which is
considered undesirable from the point of view
of both material and spiritual progress. I
also feel that the God of Death is correct in
the views he holds about materialisation.
Details of next birth: In various seances,
you must have experienced that all spirits
are very reluctant to disclose any information
about the birth which they have taken and
some of you, I am sure, must have resented
such an attitude on their part. But the reason
is not far to seek. Every spirit is ordered b y
the Court authorities not to disclose material
facts about the new or current birth. The
word ‘material’ is very vague. But if my
interpretation is correct, it means that the
information disclosed should be adequate or
definite enough to give out the full particulars
of the new birth. Supposing, by any chance,
the details given suffice to trace the dead
person in his new birth, such a person is said
164
THE POWERS AND DISABILITIES OF SPIRITS
to have broken the divine command, and the
person dies at once as a penalty for the breach
o f promise and has to stagnate in the same
plane for nearly ten births. This is the
punishment so far as the spirit is concerned.
But the medium tempting to elicit the
information has to suffer, not while on the
world of the living, but when facing the Final
Trial. I therefore advise my mediums not
to try this harmful experiment. You must
be all the while wondering why the authorities
do not desire such facts to come out. But the
restriction exists for very good reasons.
Suppose a relative of a person is dead and he
discloses his next birth. The living person
then tries to trace him in his new garb and,
all the while, considers him as his relative
and bonds of affection grow up, and if this
were allowed, the circle of near relatives
would expand like a spiral spring, the
complications of our domestic life would have
no end, and human life would indeed be a
burden. If you can visualise such a society,
perpetually increasing its relatives and friends,
I am sure, you would advocate the same
restrictions which are laid down by the Court.
It is primarily for the safety and happiness
of ourselves that divine authorities have kept
the new birth a closed book.
Attendance on Mediums: It has been
explained in connection with various topics
165
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
that the divine authorities have never objected
to spirits attending the mediums. But, at die
same time, I must admit that such meetings
and calls have never been encouraged even
for advanced spirits. This might appear to
you very strange; but references to such an
attitude on the part of the divine authorities
have been given in ancient works about spiri­
tualism in India. This is evidenced by the fact
that some religious Hindus do not consider
it proper to call their departed relatives or
friends. But persons in the world should not
think for a moment that divine authorities are
absolutely against it,- because if such were the
case the powers to call spirits would not have
been given. Their point of view is that if
spirits were to develop a very strong contact,
it would result in a dual existence, which
from various points of view is not desirable.
Thus spiritualism practised with moderation
and caution does meet with the approval o f
divine authorities.
Vision: Every fortunate human being is
endowed with the power of sight; but the
importance of sight is never fully realised
except by the few who are deprived of this
precious gift. This commonplace power of
vision is not so common in the world beyond.
The reasons are obvious, because all the
physical senses cease to exist and whatever
powers are there emerge out of the brain. A s
166
we have seen in the preceding pages, the
mental faculty is very unevenly distributed
among the people created and most of the
spirits are not able to visualise through their
brain. Only a select few who are fortunate
in transcribing vision through a very strong-
brain are able to see partly. It may be made
clear here however that spirits can make use
of the human agency for the purpose of seeing
and a spirit finds no difficulty in seeing-
through an efficient medium. This is possible
on account of the fact that the spirits can
make use of the human eyes. I for one feel
that there should have been a better provision,
made for seeing than the one in existence,
because if there is one great trouble in the;
spirit world, it is this. But at the same time,
I do realise that without any physical senses,
it is difficult to give this power, though for
gods no barriers are insurmountable.
Production of sound: Here also 1 have to
repeat the same old story, because most of the
spirits are not in a position to create any
sound, nor can they utter a word. It wilL
appear to you very strange that we cannot
talk in the normal way; but we are gifted
with a special power to convey our thoughts
quickly and efficiently to other spirits and
mediums. The accuracy of facts conveyed
is in no way impaired and I might go a step
further and say that perhaps it is a better
THE POWERS AND DISABILITIES OF SPIRITS
167
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
method than speech, because speeches have
to be couched in phrases while thoughts can
be sent without such trouble. So much for
talking. But as regards production o f sound,
the spirit is not in a position to create any sound
nor does any substitute exist for it. I had a
talk with the God of Death and he in his
usual way said that we never need that power,
and I agree with him, because the nature of
our duties or the pleasures in which we
indulge are so designed that production of
sound has no place in our system o f life.
Furthermore, Yama told me that the world
which spirits leave for sometime is full of
every type of sound and there is no need to
pollute the divine atmosphere which is devoid
o f any kind of disturbance. But my argu­
ment centres round the inability and not the
undesirability of the spirits to create any sound.
As the matters stand, however there is no way
out of it. A t this point, it must be made clear
that spirits can create sound through their
mediums and the most common example is
found in planchettes and even to a smaller
extent, in the Ouija Boards, because some
sound is produced. The elementals however
do possess this power and this is often proved
when they make noises by tampering with
our furniture and such other small pieces.
Production o f sound is thus not rare but
totally absent, so far as the spirits of the dead
168
THE POWERS AND DISABILITIES OF SPIRITS
world are concerned, barring the elementals.
Some mediums have requested spirits to
create sounds to prove their existence; but I
am sure they are ignorant of the above facts.
Memory: In this book, great importance
has been given to the mental factor, both in
the case of human beings and spirits and it
has often been said that spirits possess the same
mental powers. But this is not absolutely
true, because in certain respects the abilities
of the spirit and the living person differ. It
was my constant endeavour to find the cause
and in the light of my present knowledge it
appears that the mind of the spirit is weaker
than the soul’s, because the spirit mind works
in isolation so far as the physical senses are
concerned. It is a fact that the other qualities
of the mind do not depreciate to a large
extent; but the faculty of memory is
considerably weakened. Memory stands in
a special class by itself and that too with a
good reason. It is. obvious that if a person
were to remember incidents of lives after
lives, his mental stability would be lost and
cumulative effects of various sad and painful
incidents would be absolutely unbearable for
the delicate thinking-instrument, the mind.
To keep our lives free from these troubles,
God has thought it fit to weaken the memory
after one dies. Memory does not remain
permanently weak however because as soon
169
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
as the person is reborn, the mind regains its
full form.
Knowledge of past birth: In the preceding
paragraph, we have seen how the power of
remembering diminishes and the actual result
of the said effect is seen when we find that
the spirit after some time gradually forgets the
life he had led before. This process is not
very quick and it takes a fairly long time to
efface all the detailed information of the past
life. But at the same time, my readers must
be aware of the fact that soon after the death
of a person, the sphere of life is changed and
there is a definite break in the whole system
of memory. But hazy and vague ideas
persist for nearly twenty years, and this
accounts for the fact that most of our dead
friends or relatives are in a position to
remember something and are certainly in a
position to recollect what the living people
say. The idea behind the short-lived memory
is already explained before. I have always
viewed this problem from a different stand­
point, because I feel that when a person is
made to forget the incidents of prime
importance in his life, he naturally forgets
the experience he has gained and the price
paid for not recollecting sad incidents of past
lives is too heavy. The soul like a rolling
stone gathers no moss; but the authorities
maintain that the evolutionary effect upon
170
THE POWERS AND DISABILITIES OF SPIRITS
the soul is never effaced, and the impressions
for all purposes are permanent. I am not in
a position to verify the validity of the argu­
ment; but in view of the absence of further
details they may be considered nearer truth.
W e thus see that spirits are not in a position
to remember very clearly and precisely all
the incidents of their past life. Furthermore,
the names of various relatives also are quickly-
forgotten and this state of affairs is accen­
tuated by the inability of even the best of
mediums to give proper expression to such
names. It is rare to find a spirit who has
such a strong memory as to enable him to
express the names very correctly. It is true
that these facts make proofs of the existence
of spirits very difficult and more weight has to
be placed on the general mode of talking to
bring conviction of the genuineness of spirit-
communication.
Transmission of news: In view of the
powers of the spirits mentioned above, it is
very natural to expect them to convey
messages between various mediums, arid to
other spirits. Coming to actual facts however
we find that the work is not so easy as it
seems; but, at the same time, such transmis­
sion of news is certainly feasible. Thus a
good spirit from an efficient medium can
carry the news to another medium of equal
merit; but in practice, such conditions are
1
7
1
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
not to be found; either one of the mediums
or both are not efficient or the spirit does not
possess the necessary ability or the conditions
in which the spirit is called are not normal.
Over and above these facts, the element of
time which lapses between the two sittings is
o f considerable importance. This should
suffice to explain the impediments which lie
in the path of successful transmission of
messages. Similar conditions obtain in the
case of messages to be sent to spirits. But
the distinction lies in the fact that only one
medium is to be used; and to that extent,
the task is easier. The spirit is not at the
mercy of the medium, for thoughts can be
passed between them at once; while in the
other case, the transmission of the message
depends upon the sweet will of the other
medium.
Boons: W e hear a lot about the boons
which gods and goddesses are supposed to
confer on various souls. To a large extent
these divinities are in a position to confer such
boons and favours; but it is not in the hands
o f spirits of all classes to give boons. It
should not be thought however that spirits
are not in a position to help others because
those spirits who are in touch with divine
souls can make requests to them to favour a
particular soul. Thus, an indirect method of
conferring favours does exist. But, in
172
practice, such methods are not in use, and
spirits are not in a position to help other souls
in any way. This is naturally correct, because
spirits are in no way better than living persons
and we all know that human beings are not
able to give any boons. Some of you may
refer to ancient Hindu mythology where we
come across various incidents in which saints
and such other spiritually advanced persons
are supposed to have either given a boon or
a curse; but to me it appears that those
persons must have expressed such desire and
in a few cases, purely by accident, these boons
or curses may have proved correct; but such
results can never be brought about by human
or spiritual design.
Spirits among themselves: All the while
we are talking about the various activities o f
the spirits and it is desirable to know their
way of living among themselves. Barring
relatives for the time being, the identities o f
numerous souls live in perfect harmony and
peace. Their relations are absolutely normal
and friendly. Such happy conditions exist
only when •they have had no personal
knowledge of each other before their death,
so far as their past life is concerned. But in
the case of those spirits who knew each other
before their death, the conditions are not so
ideal. The same human weaknesses prevail
there and all the good and bad qualities are
THE POWERS AND DISABILITIES OF SPIRITS
173
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
to be seen. In short, the behaviour of spirits
is just- the same and friendship or enmity is
the result. All this depends upon various
other factors and no definite causes can be
given. I am sure you must have got adequate
proof of this side of the spirit life in the course
o f various sittings.
Coming to relatives, we find that the
past bonds are revived and for some time at
least their behaviour is such that the natural
relationship can be clearly seen. In this case,
as in many other cases, the element of time
plays a very important part. But as a general
conclusion it may be stated that their relation­
ship is very similar to that of human beings
and the general atmosphere is smoother on
account of the fact that there are few things in
which conflict of interests arises.
Impersonation and misleading: This point
is of considerable importance to the people in
the world of the living, rather than to the
spirits, because the system of communication
is such that spirits can impersonate other
spirits if they care to do so. Such impersona­
tion often passes undetected and the person
concerned is naturally misled, if not deceived.
Some may argue that there is no reason to
have such an apprehension; but spirits who
have considerable free time at their disposal
are very often tempted to go to a medium for
a chat and this is to some extent natural. Even
174
THE- POWERS AND DISABILITIES OF SPIRITS
higher spirits of the fifth plane are found to
be playing this game. There is so far no
effective check in existence and we have to
rely on the strength of the spirit invoked;
because if he is powerful, he will be able to
displace the spirit who is attempting to
impersonate him. But if he is weak, then
the practical joke becomes successful. From
what 1 have gathered there are only a few
cases in which such impersonation takes
place; but very often it is the medium’s
spirit who in his keenness to make the sitting
successful cheats his medium’s customer or
visitor. Such misleading is carried on on a
large scale without the medium’s knowing it.
175
CMWliJX IX
THE FINAL G O AL
A ifr t 0 f J j f j n * r » , » r « - J 1L a r-J K * M -‘ * ’~**l$*t *
in^A?natli>r.~,,A r ‘.^>iU ?»*'A
L a ? m s «J— L o ^ ^ r v i',)' p j f r fft* :
p O w e y » ; frl-jtif'** t o c»*Ker C ^
atr>r \» Yfttr.n—
—
- f i n f l u - n t * * r i r f tf <
• *
!*«;?-
P
tm
* ©
f Crratiori.
Aim of life in wordly sense: In the preced­
ing chapters, we have tried to give some idea
about the life after death and in a way the
book is complete; but it is in the fitness of
things that some idea of the final goal should
be given in the pages to follow. It is rather
difficult to say anything definite about the
aim of life cither in a worldly sense or in the
spiritual one, though the latter is less complex.
Regarding the wordly aim of life, it must be
admitted that various people hold divergent
views; but if we keep in mind the general
class of people or to put it in other words,
the materialist class, wc find that their aim
centres round the idea of self-betterment.
They in the first instance want to become
happy themselves and then to make their
families happy. They seldom think of the
176
THE FINAL GOAL
life beyond death though they might have
some vague notions about it. Salvation or
merger is not their final goal, and they never
seek to make any special effort to gain it.
Still how ever we know that most of these
people do worship God and pray to Him, not
to advance them spiritually, but to redress
their unhappiness in this very world. This
is one class of aim of life if we bear in mind
very broad classifications.
Then there are other sets of people who,
as it were, do not care much for the help of
God and generally do not believe in worship.
Their belief is that the Karma theory is the
only correct one and they try to achieve their
advancement by leading a good and produc­
tive life and thereby earn a good subsequent
birth. In this belief, I find that there is
nothing wrong if one expects a reward for
what he has done, though better results may
be achieved if such people have some respect
for the Divine Authority. Even this class of
people does not seem to covet the Merger
though at the same time, they wish to advance
themselves spiritually.
The third class of people in this classifica­
tion is that of those who do not take any active
interest in the world in which they are living.
Their ideas of life are rather different. They
take the world as a trap or maya and no effort
is spared to avoid this material contact.
177
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
Material advancement either of themselves
or of their families or of the world is not their
aim. They are-mad after salvation and births
and deaths are regarded as a great nuisance.
1 for one, feel that when we are sent to the
world, the world should not be regarded as
a trap and we must understand that we are
expected to do our best in whatever sphere o f
life we are placed. At the same time, spiritual
advancement should not be lost sight of
because we must not forget for a moment that
spiritual and material advancements are
interrelated, and neglect of one of the two is
sure to affect the general progress.
Idea of Karma: In this way we come to the
conclusion that Karma is the main thing, so
far as the activities in the world of the living
are concerned. Coming to Karma or deeds,
we know that when we are judged in the
Court, a detailed analysis is made of all the
activities which we have carried on during
our lifetime. It is not necessary to recapi­
tulate the classification which I gave in the
earlier part of this book. But one thing
should be said that only very important' acts
performed by us have a bearing on our future
development and the minor acts are of no
. consequence. Furthermore, it is agreed on
all hands that good actions only do not earn
a reward and the divine authorities expect
'< some sort of worship for future spiritual
178
THE FINAL GOAL
progress. .Material advancement can be
secured without any worship, because there
’the divine authorities have no right to raise
any objection on that ground. From this, it
must be apparent that the theory of Karma
is of greater value in securing material
advancement, while in the case of spiritual"
one, worship has also some value.
R
e-in
ca
rn
a
tio
n
:It is assumed that my readers
have grasped the theory of re-incarnation and
it is now desirable to discuss the advantages
and drawbacks of the actual position. Those
of you who are not inclined to pin your faith
in that theory may leave this point aside.
Births and deaths are recurring >phenomena
and the natural question which arises in this
connection is: Is it a desirable thing? Most
people consider them to be a great source of
trouble, while some consider them as training
ground for material and spiritual progress.
There are some who regard this mortal world
as the real world and therefore they naturally
cherish the idea of rebirths. My ideas on the
subject are as under:— I too believe that the
human world is the real world so far as the
individual existence is concerned. The spirit-
world is the resting place for those of us who
secure salvation. There exists a false notion
about our permanent home, and we are led
to believe that the spirit-world is the
permanent home. If there were no births
179
and deaths, we would not be able to get
adequate experience and a change o f sphere
would be impossible. W e clearly see
therefore the utility o f rebirths and there is
no reason to develop a distaste for this very
natural thing.
Ambition: Taking rebirth as a reality, we
have to consider the main force which should
guide our activities in various births. This
world affords an excellent training ground
and we are expected to prove that we want
to progress further and further. Very often,
contentment is considered as the best quality
which a human being should acquire for
spiritual advancement. This is a point how­
ever on which many people have expressed
different opinions. Taking a rational view
it must be admitted that contentment means
slackening of our activities and it would not
be in our interests to practice it in the earlier
part of our aggregate life, that is, from the
first birth till salvation. In that period the
soul should bubble forth with ambition to
progress and that too both materially and
spiritually. At the same time, I agree that
ambition also has limits. After, say, getting
into the fifth plane or Surya loka, there is
nothing wrong if that feeling gradually cools
down, and perhaps at that stage contentment
may be a useful method of earning salvation.
In a word, for individual existence, ambition
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
180
THE FINAL GOAL
is the only quality which can prove useful,
but when that desire for individual existence,
changes into a desire for mixed existence with
the Supreme Being, contentment is one o f
the methods. I have seen cases in which
contentment was never practised and yet
salvation was earned, though delayed by a
few years. We can, therefore, stick neither
to ambition nor to contentment and no one
dictum can be invariably true.
Moksha: In this book, we have been talking
about salvation or Moksha very frequently
and yet no exact idea of that state of a soul
has ever been given. In a way, I am not a
suitable spirit for the purpose of defining
Moksha, as I have not attained that stage.
But, from what I know, it is a status conferred
on those souls who have taken an adequate
number of births, have secured the necessary
experience and have progressed both
materially and spiritually, the former in the
earlier part of life and the latter in the later
part. Further such salvation is not possible
if there is a lurking desire for individual
existence. A spirit satisfying the above
conditions, over and above the necessary
worship, can attain salvation.
Worship is a vague expression and I have
failed to make out what type of devotion
constitutes the necessary amount of worship.
Naturally, it cannot be another word for
1
8
1
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND. DEATH
«
flattery. A t the most, it may be an apprecia­
tion of the qualities which the Supreme Being
possesses or it may be deemed necessary to
pay pur respects and homage to the Almighty.
The current forms of worship have very often
neglected this real form of devotion and have
made it a by-word for flattery and gods are
alleged to reward those of us who flatter
them. Indian mythology is replete with such
apparent instances; but there we are con­
founding devotion with flattery. Anyway,
it is certain that, without true devotion, salva­
tion is not easy, as after all salvation is a sort
of appreciation of the qualities of a soul.
. Merger* the peculiar end: Merger or salva­
tion is the final stage in the natural evolution
of a soul. It is a promotion from the seventh
stage or the Deva Loka. But, one thing that
distinguishes merger from other stages of
evolution is that it puts to an end the individual
existence. It relieves the soul who gets
salvation from the trouble of births and
deaths, if it is a trouble at all. Further it
shows that you have stood the test of life
creditably and you are fit enough to be merged
with God, and thereby become one with Him.
But what we feel is that after attaining this
. development of mind and after securing such
rich experience, we are lost to the world we
have served so well. A soul who has led
, such an active life.for years has to lead a life
182
THE FINAL COAL
•which knows no activities, though the
Supreme Being is, no doubt, active. Is it not
then peculiar that many of us covet this
peculiar end. I for one feel that even if I were
to be given salvation, I would be most
'tempted to decline the offer. Looking at the
other, side of the question, some hold that in
our every day life, after some years of hard
eventful career, we need retirement and we
do not grumble about a life of complete
inactivity. By the same reasoning, applied
in a broader sense, births and deaths too prove
strenuous for a soul and naturally after some
long years of this activity the soul should earn
some rest, and it retires, as it were. But this
retirement is not eternal, and this’ statement
■will be substantiated in the subsequent pages. I
do not see any flaw in this reasoning, as such.
Perhaps like most youngmen, I do not dream
o f retirement.
Longevity of life: Material people never ’
think of merger or salvation, and even though
they possess some knowledge of the theory
of reincarnation, they are very reluctant to
leave the body. This feeling is absolutely
true, and in a way, in the earlier part of the
aggregate life there should be a strong desire
to live a long life. It is true that when a soul
is born, the span of life is determined in the
court; but it is not an exact number of years,
but a limit is set, something like fifty to
183
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
seventy years. During those intermediate
twenty years, the soul may be forced to leave
the body; but it is in the hands of the soul to
avoid moments of weakness in which death
may overpower the soul. Moreover the
mission of life also plays an important role
and the longer you delay the fulfilment of
those missions, the longer you live, and it is
also to our advantage to have more than one
mission of life, because then only it becomes
difficult to fulfil all of them. These are the
factors which have nothing to do with the
physical body as such. Still however it should
be stated that the soul has to take help from
the body and therefore a healthy body is
necessary for a long life. Thus a sound mind
in a sound body avoids many moments of
mental and physical weaknesses and thereby
takes advantage of the full lease of life. It is
riot necessary to give some ideas about the
methods of maintaining good health as it is
a matter out of my sphere. It thus appears
that to make use of the full span of life is
easy; but the actual facts make us feel the
other way, as, in most cases, the conditions
laid down are difficult to abide by. At the
same time, there are instances in which we
find that full advantage is taken by the souls
concerned.
From ages there is a lurking desire in
human minds to conquer death. But every
184
THE FINAL GOAL
one, when dying, feels that such an attempt
proves futile. Death is a thing which can be
delayed during the period allowed by the
Court, as explained before. But further than
that is beyond the human range. According
to my knowledge it is not possible to postpone
it and attempts made to defy it are always
fruitless. It does not mean however, that
we should surrender at once, because what
we may take as death may turn out to be a
moment of either mental or physical weakness,
and it is in our powers to avert that crisis.
In Indian mythology we find instances o f
certain persons having been made immortal.
But I have found that such a boon would
never be conferred on a soul in this world in
so far as the ordinary human body is so made
that it can roughly last for 150 years, and
not more than that. Thus the grant of
immortality is a flight of imagination of some
Hindu writers. It is a reality in the spirit
world, because every soul is immortal.
Rewards however for special service or
extreme devotion are sometimes given and if
boons are given for lengthening life the deci­
sion of the Court can be changed. It may be
added that Yama Raj has equal powers and
therefore the Creator even cannot grant such
a boon without his consent.
God: The great mystery is no longer a
mystery for us. But every thing in the spirit
185
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
world is capable o f being explained except
one thing and that is the Great Soul or the
Supreme Being. From the very inception of
this world we humans have always assumed
that there is the Almighty God and that He
has created the world or in a wider sense, the
Universe and that He guides, controls and
supervises each and every activity performed
Ly millions of His sons and daughters. This
idea of this extra-cosmic Being is still held
"by all of us. He is given various names in
various countries and He is said to possess
numerous qualities and virtues. But none
of us has ever seen Him nor any exact idea
of this Soul has ever been given. Yet the
world is ruled by Him for centimes and it will
be ruled for millions of centuries without we
people getting even the faintest idea of Him.
In these circumstances, I begin to describe
Him in my own way with considerable
diffidence and I am sure my readers will be
broad-minded enough to overlook my inability
to do justice to it.
Form: Various authors have attempted to
conceive some form for this Great 'Soul, but
I definitely know that like every other soul,
He has no form whatever, and in this connec­
tion, I may add that this Soul, being composed
o f many souls which we possess, is only a
spark of energy and that there is no matter.
Yet, we must not forget that God, being able
186
THE FINAL GOAL
to give physical forms to so m any'of His
parts, can very easily assume any form 'H e
desires. Indian mythology gives stray
examples of God having taken form and
staying on our earth for a number of years,
and I think it is a valid statement. Similarly
in other countries too, He may have actually
come down, if not wholly, at least partially,
and prophets of various religions are cases in
point. But these instances should not lead
you to understand that He always assumes
a physical form. Years may roll on without
any form being assumed by Him and
according to the reliable information which
I have sought to procure, He should be
regarded as one who assumes no physical
form in normal circumstances.
Residence: God is supposed to reside in
each and every corner of the whole universe
created by Him. But it is natural for us to
inquire where He normally resides. I myself
have had no occasion to see this Supreme Godj
and I cannot say where He exactly stays.
But from my talks with Yama Raj, it appears
that He is usually found in the seventh plane,
that is, the Deva loka. With big persons, we
associate splendid palaces to live in,
in a magnificent city, but our God is found
sharing the same position as the spirits of
the Devaloka. In respect of the problem of
residence, He has reserved a big space for
187
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
His own purpose and there He stays with
His personal attendants. He has also a sort
of a court, not for deciding cases as the God of
Death does, but to hear appeals for mercy and
for carrying on the work of creation. He is
in a way residing in every nook and corner
in so far as He has powers to see and know
what is happening all over the world and this
is true in so far as every part of the Soul goes
to the world by rotation in the shape of frag­
mented souls, which take birth in the world.
Powers: Where there is a limit, there can
be an analysis of powers. But in this case,
there being no limit, there is as a matter of
fact no need to enumerate the powers
possessed by Him. Yet, to name a few of
the many possessed by Him, He has full
powers of creation, and there is no higher
authority in this respect, though He generally
consults the God of Death, in determining
the broad policy to be followed. As regards
the work of destruction, He has no powers.
Even if He is angry with a particular soul, it
is not in His hands to deprive him of his life.
He, in that case, seeks help from Yama Raj.
Taking the sphere of general administration
of both the spirit-world and the human world,
He has complete control and in discharging
His duties, He has arranged such a method
of distributing the work that only very
important questions come up before Him.
188
THE FINAL GOAL
In this way, He administers the world, as is
the case with our human governments. He
possesses many special powers of mercy;
He can grant a new lease of life or grant a
special promotion in the advancement of a
soul; He can improve the status of a
particular soul in the world, He may merge a
soul either when it proves too bad for the
world or He thinks that it is deserving of
such a high position. It may appear strange
that God is not expected to prove what He
feels about a particular soul, and He unlike
Yama Raj can take arbitrary action. Here
it appears that He is more absolute than
Yama. It is not desirable to enlarge upon
the usual powers which are common among
higher souls. But one most important power
is the one of knowing the future and the past
also. He has no limitations of physical senses
which spirits have in the spirit-world.
Darshan: This Supreme Being is endowed
with the special power of taking form at any
moment and therefore He can give a physical
darshan whenever He desires. But, such an
opportunity is given only to those who are
very much devoted to Him and that too after
a protracted period of worship. Among the
Hindus, there is a belief current that penance
for a long time is bound to result in making
God take a physical form. I do not definitely
know how far this is true; but it is feasible
189
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
no doubt. But I may make one thing clear
and that is that a person who can secure such
a concrete vision of God does not necessarily
get salvation or get a very good birth. Yet
a soul who can induce Him to come down is
generally a high soul and hence the correla­
tion of the two facts. I wonder whether it is
in our interests to, as it were, sacrifice the
whole of our life for that darshan. Some say
that that is the best and noblest moment of
life, not of one birth but all the 84 lacs, as it
were. But I myself do not fancy this idea,
because our mission of life is to prove useful
to the world and riot to satisfy this personal
desire.
Relation to other gods: In the preceding
paragraph, we have seen that there is a
definite system of government. The heads
of the different departments and of different
planes are all divine beings and sire termed
gods. Even controllers of different elements
are called gods too. Curiously enough, Hindu
mythology is full of such names and it is
nearly confusing to analyse those long
descriptions of various gods. I feel there is
much of imagination rather than actual
substance because they have been in the first
place given physical form which is not true.
Moreover the names given are also not invari­
ably true and their powers unduly exaggerated.
Coming to the relations of the Supreme'God
190
THE FINAL GOAL
and these gods, one thing is clear and that is
that all of them are subordinates so far as
He is concerned except the God of Death,
who is His equal. All these gods have to
carry on the work of administration under His
instructions and, even in minor details, they
have to be very careful lest they may deviate
from the rules laid down by Him. Thus con­
trary to normal opinion small gods are not
vested with any powers of their own and they
are merely agents of the one Supreme Being. It
may be added that all of them have the power
to ask for an audience with the Almighty
and there they ‘ can talk about matters
concerning their sphere ,of work, and can
suggest whatever they want to do. But in
no case can they deviate, once a particular
policy is laid down. Special powers can be
granted to those of these divine beings who
are found worthy .of such recognition of their
services.- Similarly, those who are unfit can
be punished either by reducing their powers
or by depriving them of their separate exist­
ence, by merging them, for some time or if
need be, for a very long time.
There is a Hindu belief that there are some
33 crores of gods and there is over them a
sort of a cabinet of three important gods
namely of Shiva, Vishnu and Brahma. I do
not believe in terminology, but there,is a
cabinet of three gods certainly viz. the God
1
9
1
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
o f Death or the Destructor, and the Supreme
Being or the Creator and the general adminis­
trator known as Vishnu. W e may regard
Shiva as the God of Death and Brahma as the
Supreme Being. But leaving aside these
Indian names, the three important functions
of the Universe are represented in this final
cabinet. The functions of this body are
mainly of a deliberative and advisory nature.
Without such meeting of these three gods, it
would not be possible to carry on the world
properly. The work of creation and destruc­
tion has to be carried on in such great
harmony that co-operation between the three
is almost imperative. W e have talked about
gods and in this connection I may state that
there are goddesses too. They also like gods
work in the general system of administration,
and enjoy equal powers with gods. There is
one point which strikes us that when in the
spirit-world no sex distinction exists, there is
no reason to have goddesses. I am not in a
position to clear the point. But, it appears
that, certain souls who have been raised to
this divine status had more female births than
male ones and hence this female name
attached to them.
The Creator vs. Yama: The Creator or the
Supreme God and Yama or the God of Death
are the two most important beings in the
whole system of government and it is
192
THE FINAL GOAL
desirable to consider their relationship and
their individual powers. It may be remarked
that the importance of the God of Death is
underestimated to a large extent and even the
Hindus who worship all possible divinities
have neglected him. His position is never
recognised by us and it is a high time that
we should realise the true situation. The
great powers of Yama Raj are alone adequate
to show the very important position, he
enjoys in the spirit-world. He is supreme in
deciding the policy regarding destruction and
even promotion to a higher stage is dependent
on his ruling. While giving new birth, he is
the person who determines what type of birth
to give and such other allied things. The
Creator who has vast powers regarding
creation and over all other spheres of human
life does not keep all the powers in His hands
but delegates the control to His subordinates.
It is curious to note that God, who has
complete control of everything, has thought fit
to take away all control from over Yama and
He does not control, guide or supervise
proceedings in Yama’s Court. Yama thus
in reality is equal and not a subordinate. If
these two powerful Souls were to work in
isolation, the whole Universe would come to
an end. There is therefore a great need for
a joint policy of work for these two Souls.
The relations between the Creator and Yama
193
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
are generally very smooth and cordial and
they always take an important step after
consulting each other. Occasions of important
differences of opinion are very rare and in
-case such a sharp difference o f opinion
becomes rigid, Vishnu is supposed to pacify
the parties concerned by His ready powers of
bringing about a compromise.
Final Influence over the W orld: The above
facts may lead you to believe that the Creator
is not as powerful as He is depicted to be.
But this is an illusion in so far as He does
•carry on the work of creation, destruction and
administration through his two very powerful
agents. Do not for a moment think that
Vishnu and Yama are any different Souls
than His own. After all, the Creator, God, is
the Trinity Himself, and all these separate
influences of the Three Big Souls emerge out
o f the one God. His influence on the world
is far-reaching and very wide. It may perhaps
appear that events can take place either
without His knowledge or consent. But it
must be realised that even the slightest move­
ment in the Universe is according to His
intentions. His control is absolute and the
world moves on through the element of time
and will go on for years together until the
Creator thinks of taking away all His frag­
ments of energy from the world.
Purpose o f Creation: This is the last
194
THE FINAL GOAL
mystery which I am going to solve before I
complete this work. It is extremely difficult
to say how the world or the Universe came
into existence, nor is it in my hands to tell
you how the Great Soul or the Big Energy
came into being. In other words, the birth
of the Energy or Matter is a complete mystery
to me and perhaps to all others including the
gods whom I have had occasion to meet. It
is a matter of regret that this important
problem should have remained unsolved and
that there should not be any prospects of
finding out a solution. The only way to
explain the purpose of creation is to assume
that somehow this Energy was in existence
and a part of this energy was converted into
matter. After this stage of development,
the work of creation started. The mass of
Energy could not remain idle and therefore
fragments which emerged from it, took the
shape of living beings and in this book, we are
concerned with one type of them, namely,
the human beings. This is the only way in
which this world of ours could have come into
existence.
Taking the above assumptions as correct,
we will examine the purposes underlying the
continuous work of Creation. It is a well
known fact that souls who are bom are
expected to gain experience and to earn a
retirement from active life or what is called
195
THE GREAT MYSTERY OF LIFE BEYOND DEATH
& merger. But one does not understand why
there should be no end to the work o f creation.
The Creator does not rest satisfied after His
whole energy has been sent to the world in
fragments. The reason is not clear nor is it
explained by Him: but what appears to me
is as under: W e assume that the Creator is
composed of half the original energy and the
■other half is fragmented into various souls and
they are in the world. As time passes, some
o f them get merged and if that process were
to continue, in a number of years, the world
would be devoid of life and again there would
be Energy and Matter. There would be thus
no sense in creating the world if God were to
do this. It is also believed in authoritative
circles here that if the Energy were to be
devoid of any contact with the world, there
could be no effective touch or link and this
continuous chain of creation and merger
maintains that necessary link. It may strike,
us to inquire why this Energy should be so
active all these years. Is it not an ideal state
o f affairs to go back again to the point of
starting; that is to say, make the Universe
static? But may I remind you that every­
thing in our world, either material or spiritual,
is essentially dynamic?
Before I conclude this small book, I would
be most ungrateful if I were not to thank very
sincerely Dewan Bahadur Kaji and his son
196
and nephew for the extremely cordial support
and help which they have given me in
bringing out this book. Without their
assistance, my first hand knowledge would
have remained absolutely obscure. Special
mention should be made about their readiness
to suit my odd and rigid demands regarding
the time for writing the book. It is a great
sacrifice on their part to have undertaken this
work in its true sense of pure service and I
wish their efforts are appreciated by the
public.
THE FINAL GOAL
THE END
197
