{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__hayter___deadly_magic.pdf","mytitle":"Deadly Magic","mylang":"de"}
DEADLY MAGIC
Including the
AUSTRALIAN POINTING STICK
Colonel F. J. IJAYTER (Retired)
Hon. M.A. Cantab.
L o n d o n : R I D E R & C O .
PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C.4
TEE HEW YORK
PUBLIC LIBRARY
51271B
ASTGK, LENOX AND
TILDiLN FOUNDATIONS
B 1940 h
MADE AMD PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
AT GAINSBOROUGH PRESS, ST. ALBANS
BY FISHER, KNIGHT AND CO., L ID .
CONTENTS
PAGE
Illu stra tio n of th e A ustralian Pointing
Stick . . . . . Frontispiece
In t r o d u c t io n ...........................................................7
Australian Pointing Stick, Description
and Use of. . . . . . . 13
Belief and Fear, Reactions of . . 16
Fear in Animals and Human Beings . 17
African Witch Doctors and ‘Smelling
Out’ ....................................................................18
C ertain D eaths Unaccompanied b y F ear . 18
Ca se of P r iso n e r in I n d ia n Gaol
Ca se of E nglish R e t ir e d B u sin e ss Ma n .
A frican ‘B a d Me d ic in e ’ . . . .
A fr ica n ‘B a d Me d ic in e ’ E m plo y ed on a W h ite
Ma n ............................................................................
Death Prayer in Hawaii . . . .
Death Following a ‘Decline’ . . .
Combined Suggestion . . .
Super-normal Phenomena .
Fire-Walking and Fire-Proofing .
Hypnotism . . . . . .
Suspended Animation . . . .
Self-wounding With a Weapon .
Discarnate Sp i r i t s ..........................................
Possession by Spirits .
19
20
20
22
24
26
26
27
28
38
41
42
43
45
C O N T E N T S
FAGS
T h e H um an ‘P o w e r P la n t* . . . 46
Dr. George Crile’s Research Work . . 47
T h e D u c t le s s G la n d s . . . . 48
A n a l y s i s ......................................................................................... 49
The Hawaiian Death Prayer • • . 50
African Bad Medicine on a White Man . cj
African Bad Medicine on White Man and
Negro . . . . . . . 52
Australian Pointing Stick • • • . 53
Prisoner in Indian Gaol * * • • 54
English Retired Business Man . . . 5 4
The Decline * * • • • • 54
General Considerations * * • • 55
Combined Suggestion . . . 56
Conclusion . . . .
57
B iblio g r a ph y . . .
TYPICAL AUSTRALIAN MURDIE,
POINTING STICK,
from the Wonkonguru tribe, North East of Lake Eyre. Body of
wood, charred black towards the point on both sides. Cord of
twisted hair and fur, two feet three inches in length, secured to
the body of the stick by native gum which is coloured white.
Photographed with the permission of the Curator of the Cambridge
University Museum of Archaeology and of Ethnology. Australian
show case, exhibit 1923-1489. Collector and donor Dr. G. Horne,
n V.D., M.A., Adelaide.
INTRODUCTION
T
H E original intention was to provide a written
description of the Australian Pointing Stick
and how it was made use of, a relatively easy
matter, and also to include an explanation of the
resultant effects of its employment, not by any
means a simple m atter, incidentally one that
required making notes of co-related occurrences in
different parts of the world, all of which occupied
a period of some years.
Briefly, the Pointing Stick is an accessory of
bad, very bad magic which is made use of by the
aborigines in some parts of Australia to cause the
death of another human being without leaving any
evidence of the means employed in so doing, for
it is said that the act of pointing the stick will, of
itself, cause death to follow in due course.
An idea, widely current, that the act of pointing
the stick caused fear, and fear caused death, did
not seem to be very convincing, for it failed to
supply any details of how or why this particular
emotion should or would inhibit the working of the
mechanism of the hum an vital functions and cause
death.
It seemed to be a m atter of importance to try
and find out all about it, because if it were generally
known, such knowledge might afford a means of
counteracting some effects of bad magic and possibly
of saving hum an life.
From this starting-point it soon became clear
that the realms of magic would require systematic
7
8 D E A D L Y MAGI C
exploration and that these included magic both good
and bad, black and white, that it was employed by
primitive and non-primitive people, that it had
associated phenomena such as the super-normal,
hypnotism, telepathy, clairvoyance, second sight,
clairaudience, telekinesis, hallucination, illusion,
including the optical varieties, fortune-telling,
crystal-gazing, and witchcraft, with a range of
present-day distribution world wide, and of great
antiquity, being traceable as far back as the Stone
Age period.
A great amount of information was obtainable
about what magicians, witches, astrologers, sooth­
sayers, fortune-tellers, adepts, fakirs, yogis,
conjurers, witch doctors and medicine men were
credited with being able to do, and, speaking
generally, the evidence in support of it was not
very good, and it was noticeable that details about
how these magical phenomena were produced were,
usually, lacking, or, if any such were produced,
what consequences followed, and how they might
be accounted for.
Take the case of an Egyptian adept who was
credited with being able, by the exercise of his will
power, and without the use of poison or any other
physical means of a lethal nature, to cause the death
of a fowl that appeared to have been in a state of
normal health just prior to death, or that of an
African negro sorcerer, among others of a similar
cult, who could produce a like result in the case of
a human being—nobody seemed to say anything
about how such effects were produced, if they really
were produced; obviously the Egyptian adept (see
A Search in Secret Egypt, by Paul Brunton, p. 85,
1936. London: Rider & Co.) and the African
D E A D L Y M A G I C 9
Witch Doctor (pp. 20-26 hereof) were much too
astute to broadcast their secrets to all and sundry;
consequently it became clear that the elucidation
of these mysterious phenomena would have to be
undertaken independently.
While having acquired some useful inform ation
regarding the subject under notice, there is a very
great deal that can only be adequately dealt with
by those possessed of a special knowledge of
psychology, physiology, pathology and physical
science, and others whose avocations and duties
bring them into close relationship with prim itive
races of mankind, and amongst whom m ay be
ministers of religion and officers of overseas
administrative services.
The term Magic is defined in the Shorter Oxford
English Dictionary, 1933, as “ The pretended art of
influencing the course of events by compelling the
agency of spiritual beings, or by bringing into opera­
tion some occult controlling principle of nature;
sorcery, witchcraft, also the practise of this a r t / ’
The mention of the agency of spiritual beings
readily brought to mind: Angels, Archangels,
Cherubim, Seraphim, devils, the devil, the latter
as a personification of the powers of evil.
Whilst not unmindful that much of the Bible
narrative originated as oral tradition, which, prior
to its being put into script, m ay have lost some of
its original character, that in those days there were
linguistic limitations, that expression of ideas m ight
present difficulties, that the standard of knowledge
relating to exact physical science was not, then, on
the same level as that of the present tim e, never­
theless, it seemed to be certain that these narratives
must be based on a firm foundation of fact, and
10 D E A D L Y M A G I C
that they would prove to be a valuable source of
information from a psychological point of view,
especially concerning anything to do with evil
spirits and their 'possession’ by human beings.
This assumption was justified, as may be gathered
from page 45.
Having, figuratively, opened a door giving access
to the realms of discamate spirits, occultism and
spiritualism then presented themselves to notice,
assuming large dimension, as did also the objective
creation of 'thought forms’ as known in Tibet, but
not so well elsewhere (see Beasts, Men, and Gods,
p. 115. Ossendowski. 1923. London: Edward
Arnold & Co.; and With Mystics and Magicians
in Tibet, pp. 265, 284. Alexandra David-Neel.
1931-1936. London: John Long).
Having established a connecting link between
psychical phenomena of the Biblical era (see page
43), and modern practices (pages 20-27), it did
not appear to be illogical to consider the possibility
of the magicians of a people in a state of primitive
cultural development establishing and maintaining
communication and collaboration with discamate
primitive elemental spirits and employing them
for the purpose of carrying out anti-social or
maleficent activities; this association is illustrated
by the account of the Hawaiian K ahuna (see pages
24 and 25).
— The discovery and introduction of apparatus for
recording, transmitting, and receiving details of
sights and sounds seen and heard far away from
the recipient, and conveyed from the place of
observation to that of reception by invisible and
intangible wireless waves, has suggested the possi­
bility of the production of phenomena by some
D E A D L Y MAGI C I I
means as invisible and intangible to normal sense
perceptions as are wireless waves.
For example, a rare species of female moth when
enclosed in a glass jar has been observed to attract
froma distance to the outside of the jar male moths
of the same rare species. Might not this occurrence
be brought about by ‘moth’ wireless transmission
and reception? Moths are provided with antennae !
How do young eels, elvers, manage to find their
way from somewhere near the coast of Florida,
across the Atlantic Ocean, and up European rivers,
unless there is some sort of magnetic force exercising
attraction towards the particular river to which they
travel, and which acts on a specialized sense of the
elver in the same sort of way that the earth’s
magnetic attraction does on a mariner’s compass?
The same class of idea suggests itself as regards
the migration of young birds over long distances,
and the 'homing’ capabilities of carrier pigeons.
Other examples might be given, but it is
unnecessary to labour the point that the intro­
duction of wireless apparatus has caused a decided
swing of the mental pendulum away from the
materialism of some years ago to the psychological
viewpoint of to-day, and may lead to the considera­
tion as to whether the powers of evil are merely
abstract ideas without concrete reality or if they are
possessed of dynamic potentialities as are wireless
waves, of which more than sixty octaves are known
to science, but all of which are not definitely
catalogued.
The result of this research, so far, has been some­
what inconclusive in respect of the death-dealing
properties of the Australian Pointing Stick, for the
collection of evidence is, from the nature of the
12 D E A D L Y M A G I C
matter, of great difficulty (see frontispiece), but as
this type of magic is widely distributed, though
presenting differences of technique in its employ­
ment, it seems to suggest that those who make use of
it do find it effective for their purposes.
Excluding the Australian Pointing Stick, however,
the other illustrations of bad magic are much better
calculated to provide material for arriving at a
reasonable solution.
If this knowledge should prove to be of any help
in counteracting the evil effects of bad magic, the
author will be very well satisfied.
DEADLY MAGIC
THE AUSTRALIAN POINTING STICK
AS Honorary Keeper of the Australian collec­
tions in the Cambridge University Museum of
Archaeology and of Ethnology, I have often been
asked for information about the Pointing Bone and
Pointing Stick, which are used by some of the
aborigines of that country for causing the death of
another by their employment as an accessory of bad
magic.
The Pointing Bone and Pointing Stick serve the
same general purpose but the former is usually made
use of in cases of tribal reprisal for wrong doing,
included in the native term Kurdaitcha, which of
itself is a fairly lengthy subject, and as the pointing
stick will conveniently serve to illustrate the employ­
ment of this type of magic, details of the pointing
bone will be omitted. The material of which the
pointing stick is made is wood, tapered to a point
at one end and, usually, rounded at the other, often
ornamented with dots or spiral lines burnt in with
a fire stick, or raddled; occasionally birds' down
may be stuck on with blood. A cord of human
hair, or hair and fur, may be attached to the blunt
end by means of native gum. Dimensions, orna­
mentation, if any, and details of construction vary
in different localities.
It is not a weapon in the nature of a poignard
for causing physical injury by stabbing, but, as
14 D E A D L Y M A G I C
employed by the aborigines, it is primarily a
depository for lethal bad magic, which is subse­
quently projected from it to the body of the victim
where, if reports are true, it causes death without
leaving any apparent indications of physical injury,
disease, or lethal drug.
A question arising from the foregoing is what
caused the illness and death?
Our own people in the back blocks of Australia,
who may be familiar with the subject, might
perhaps say that the black fellow when ‘boned*
dies of funk, and that would be quite a good
explanation so far as it goes, but it does not
supply information as to how or why ‘funk* should
cause death.
How Used
The circumstances under which the pointing stick
magic would usually be employed are such as to
cause a death, the details attending which would
afford little evidence of who was responsible for the
occurrence or how it was accomplished.
This type of magic is discouraged, and would, if
detected, be severely punished by the tribe con­
cerned, possibly by death, consequently it is
difficult to obtain details of the modus operandi
and, at best, they are scanty, and as a necessary
precaution would probably be the work of one
person—Kurdaitcha excluded—but two may be so
associated for pointing stick magic. The one who
is to perform the deed having shaped and perhaps
ornamented the stick, then, in native parlance,
‘sings* it, that is endows it with all the evil inten­
tions and wishes to be directed against the victim.
D E A D L Y MAGIC 15
accompanied by such physical suffering as appeals
to the imagination of the aborigine.
The stick is then left concealed for a few days
before being used. A favourable opportunity
having presented itself, for example, during
darkness with the victim near a camp fire, and
affording a clear view to the operator, who would
be unobserved either by the victim or anyone else,
the stick is pointed, sometimes with a short stabbing
movement, while at the same time the operator wills
the bad magic to be projected from the stick to the
victim. If a second person takes part in these pro­
ceedings he holds the end of the cord and reinforces
the effects of the magic with his own bad wishes.
The victim, unaware of what has occurred, in
due course, so it is reported, sickens and dies, unless,
meanwhile, some more powerful counter magic can
be employed on his behalf, but in default of which,
there is a gradual ‘fading out’ of the bodily vital
functions but no indications of physical injury,
disease, poison, or lethal drug.
The uninformed aborigines associate illness, mis­
fortune, perhaps even wounds, with the action of
magic, and have little or no belief in or knowledge
of its true origin, consequently the employment of
a pointing bone or stick would readily suggest itself
to a mind already obsessed with a firm conviction,
based on transmitted tribal belief, that the conse­
quences must be fatal unless a stronger counter
magic could neutralize them.
Aboriginal language has a limited vocabulary
which may not be well understood by white people
who might be endeavouring to obtain information
on the subject, so there is an initial difficulty in
this respect, added to which, it would rarely be
l 6 D E A D L Y MAG I C
possible to get an aborigine to say anything, for
fear of admitting that he was a self-confessed
murderer, either in effect or intention; conse­
quently, in these cases, it is a matter of extreme
difficulty to obtain any definite and conclusive
evidence of what happens, so it seems desirable
to inquire whether lethal bad magic, as prac­
tised in countries other than Australia, will
afford particulars of occurrences of a kindred
nature.
The information required is whether the bad
magic referred to does cause illness and death, or
whether they are attributable to the victims'
imagination and the action of the emotion of
fear.
For detailed accounts of the pointing bone and
stick, with illustrations, see The Northern Tribes of
Central Australia, chap. XIV, Magic, by Sir Baldwin
Spencer and F. J. Gillan; also Savage Life in Central
Australia, chap. VII, Death, Pointing Bones, and
Sanctuary, by Dr. Home and G. Aiston.
BELIEF AND FEAR
From the foregoing it appears that the emotion
of ‘fear/ resting on a firmly established conviction
that a definite train of events would follow the
employment of this magic, causes important
psychological and physiological reactions, the
details of which it will be desirable to look
into.
Faith may rest on belief, but it would probably
be of a more robust nature if the evidence in
support of it were more convincing.
D E A D L Y MAGI C 17
I knew of a sincere Christian Scientist who, in
spite of his sincerity, faith, and science was sea­
sick on a voyage. After this he admitted that there
was a difference between faith in a belief and
evidential proof of it.
If the accuracy of a strong belief can be contro­
verted by unmistakable proof, then, so far as bad
magic is concerned, it is a step in the right direction,
for it will tend to lessen the effects caused by the
emotion of fear.
FEAR IN ANIMALS AND HUMAN BEINGS
Fear is little shown by some animals but unmis­
takably so in others, the reaction to this emotion
in human beings also differs considerably.
Circumstances may present innumerable varia­
tions from fear of personal injury in face of
imminent danger to that of consequences follow­
ing a sequence of events; the latter may perhaps
be more accurately classed as anxiety or apprehen­
sion rather than fear, but if of sufficiently long
duration and intensity, will produce more serious
pathological consequences than a sudden call to
face a danger that may be of relatively short
duration.
Fear in human beings affects the action of nerves
and causes glandular reactions which produce many
different results; for example, greatly augmented
muscular activity, or conversely, temporary or
partial paralysis, marked effect on the circulatory
and respiratory functions, temporary loss of control
of the excretory organs, and perspiration on
different parts of the body.
B
i8 D E A D L Y M A G I C
AFRICAN WITCH DOCTORS AND
‘SMELLING OUT’
The African Witch Doctor is an experienced
observer and interpreter of the symptoms that
are manifested by human beings when under his
observation during the process of "smelling out’ a
suspected malefactor, and he usually has a trained
sense of smell.
Guilty knowledge may betray itself in the
presence of a skilled observer by signs of appre­
hension due to a fear of discovery, beads of
perspiration on the forehead, twitching of the
muscles of the face, changes in its capillary circu­
lation, sweating in more than one area of the body,
each of which may be apparent to a person with
an acute sense of smell; these indications, no doubt
aided by an efficient local secret service, enable the
witch doctor to form such conclusions as he
does, which is not to say that they are invariably
correct.
The term "Witch Doctor/ if strictly made use of,
should not include a worker of anti-social or bad
magic.
CERTAIN DEATHS UNACCOMPANIED
BY FEAR
The pointing stick illustration provides an
example of death occurring without there being
any observable indications of physical injury,
disease, or poison, and which was accompanied
by the emotion of fear—there are, however.
D E A D L Y MAGIC 19
instances of similar deaths without the emotion of
fear as an accompaniment, and this leads up to the
necessity of mentioning other instances in which
death occurred without any observable indications
as above mentioned and without the accompaniment
of fear.
PRISONER IN INDIAN GAOL
A friend of mine, an officer in the R.A.M.C., on
whose accuracy I can depend, gave me the follow­
ing account of a death apparently caused by the
wish and the will of the person concerned, who was
a native Indian, sentenced to a term of imprison­
ment in a gaol of which my friend was temporary
Governor in 1917.
This man had been heard to say that he would
not live to complete his sentence, and it came to
the knowledge of the prison authorities who then
caused a more than usually careful watch to be kept
on him.
Later on he was questioned about the matter and
he admitted that the statement was quite true, that
he would not live to complete his sentence because
he was going to die, as death was preferable to
imprisonment.
He was quite resigned, demeanour calm, and
made no bother about it; he died soon afterwards.
A post mortem examination was made but dis­
closed no sign of physical injury, disease or poison;
all that was apparent was that his vital organs had
simply stopped working.
This type of suicide is frequently encountered
among primitive people in different parts of the
world.
20 D E A D L Y MAGI C
ENGLISH RETIRED BUSINESS MAN
Another reliable account of a death following the
.wish and will to die was lately given to me by an
English Doctor of Medicine.
A retired business man, resident in a country
town in England, was a prominent member of a
local church congregation, interested in good works
and generally held in high estimation.
His wife being in bad health it was arranged that
a niece should come and keep house. In course of
time it became a topic of common gossip that the
niece was going to become a mother.
When the uncle fully realized the consequences
of what he was responsible for he did not put his
head in a gas oven and turn on the tap, shoot or
drown himself, take poison or anything of that sort,
he simply laid down and died, and the only apparent
explanation of the circumstance was that he died
because he wanted to die and was determined to
do so.
FURTHER ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE
EFFECTS OF BAD MAGIC
The following cases afford further illustrations of
a death and the near approach to death in two other
instances which occurred without observable indi­
cations of physical injury, disease, or poison.
— AFRICAN ‘BAD MEDICINE’
The term bad medicine is made use of by white
people in Nigeria and other parts of Africa without
necessarily implying that any medicine, such as this
D E A D L Y M A G I C 21
term is usually understood to mean in the English
language, was given, or any poison.
The details were supplied by a friend who was
Government Medical Officer at Sierra Leone in
1928, at the time of the occurrence, the locality of
which was Darn, a bush station two days’ journey
from Freetown.
This case was under my friend’s personal
observation from start to finish.
The victim was an African native belonging to
the locality mentioned, age about 30, in Govern­
ment employment as court orderly or messenger,
had previously served in a native battalion, and
while thus employed was reported to have been a
member of some native secret society.
There were other court orderlies besides himself
who belonged to a secret society called the Boaman,
which was held in great fear by the natives, for the
headman was said to possess magical powers and,
if so desired, could assume animal or reptilian form.
Trouble arose between the Boaman orderlies and
the other one, but what was the cause of it did not
transpire; then the Boaman people decided that the
other was to die.
From various indications the white authorities
were prepared for trouble, and when it became
known, as it very soon did, that bad medicine had
been employed, my friend, the doctor, was at once
directed to take charge of the case. He made a
thorough medical examination of the man but could
discover no indication of disease, physical injury,
drugs or poison, but only symptoms of severe
mental strain manifested by fright, intense anxiety,
wild-looking eyes, wandering mind, perhaps some
visionary hallucinations, temperature 99.
22 D E A D L Y MAGI C
Within thirty-six hours of admission to hospital
he died, rather suddenly, and without any marked v
symptoms other than those mentioned. tj
A post-mortem examination was made but
furnished no evidence which afforded any indica- a
tion of what had been the cause of death; the man t
was, apparently, in normal physical condition with
the exception of some traces of an old attack of c
pleurisy which would not affect the case at all, the
spleen was slightly enlarged, as is frequently the
case in those persons who have suffered from
malaria, but would not cause death. There were
no traces of any of the poisons known to the British c
Pharmacopoeia, but the possibility of a poison
unknown, except to some of the African secret (
societies, cannot be excluded from consideration, ]
but without any evidence whatever to support such 1
a possibility. i
It is further emphasized that prior to death the <
dominant symptoms exhibited were those of an
abnormal mental condition, due to what appeared
to be a realization of an impending calamity which
could not be averted, thus causing very great mental
stress.
The doctor who furnished these particulars was,
previous to their occurrence, familiar with the
subject of African bad medicine.
AFRICAN ‘BAD MEDICINE* EMPLOYED
FOR WHITE MAN
This account was published in an African news­
paper and appeared to be straightforward and
credible, and in the nature of a warning to those
D E A D L Y M A G I C 23
who were unacquainted with witch doctors and
their ways to beware of them.
A young Englishman, not long resident in Africa
and employed at Kimberley, went out shooting in
that district.
Being unacquainted with native manners and
customs, the significance of magical properties and
symbols he unfortunately walked through a place
where some of these were displayed. When the
owner of these objects, an African negro, appeared
and indicated disapproval, the young man treated
his obvious protestations with nonchalance if not
contempt.
After arriving back at his quarters the young man
did not feel very well, and later on complained of
lassitude followed by debility, the effects of which
became more pronounced. How long this took is
not stated but he was soon under observation
of three qualified medical white men who,
however, could not discover what was the cause
of his illness nor do anything to make him
better.
Fortunately it came to their knowledge that he
had been out shooting, and on being questioned
about it he said something about his encounter with
some old negro who got excited about something
that he did not understand the reason of. This
admission, however, put those who knew something
about old negroes and their funny gadgets on the
right track, and led to the surmise that he was a
witch doctor, and in due course he was identified
and interviewed.
He said that a young man had trespassed and
desecrated his magic properties and charms, that
he had treated the matter with contempt, conse-
DEADLY MAGIC
quently ‘bad medicine’ had been employed, and he
would die accordingly.
Neither persuasion nor threats could alter this
decision. Later on when the young man appeared
to be in a dying condition, and under pressure from
the white authorities (possibly accompanied by a
threat of criminal proceedings) the witch doctor
agreed to ‘call off the bad medicine if, what was
to a native, a large sum of money was paid to him.
When this had been arranged and completed and
the bad medicine stated to have been called off, the
young man commenced to improve, and afterwards
regained normal health.
It is interesting to note that the victim of this bad
medicine, unlike the court orderly in the case
previously mentioned, had apparently no know­
ledge of and therefore no fear of bad medicine.
THE ‘DEATH PRAYER’ IN HAWAII
Another instance of a white man being the subject
of bad magic is mentioned in Max Freedom Long’s
bookRecovering the Ancient Magic (iq^6. London:
Rider &Co.).
This incident occurred in Hawaii, the victim
being a strong, healthy Irishman earning his living
as the driver of a taxi-cab. Incidentally he made
love to a native girl. This association was dis­
approved of by the girl’s grandmother, but was
disregarded by the taxi-driver, who continued his
attentions in spite of the objections of the
grandparent.
The girl's grandmother then arranged with a
Kahuna, a worker of magic, to cause the death of
the Irishman by means of the ‘Death Prayer,’ the
D E A D L Y M A G I C 25
effects of which are somewhat similar to those of
the African ‘Bad Medicine’ already referred to.
In due course this magic took effect, the Irish­
man’s feet ‘went to sleep on him’ with a prickling
numbness creeping slowly upward, which in fifty
hours had reached his waist. Two medical men
who were called in, being unable to diagnose the
cause of the trouble, the patient was removed to
hospital after which an old doctor who had been
long resident in Hawaii recognized the symptoms
as those caused by the agency of the death prayer.
“The usual symptoms of slow paralysis of the lower
limbs and threatening general collapse.”
On questioning the patient he learned of the
association with the Hawaiian girl, and knowing a
good deal about native ways and customs then
interviewed the grandmother and came to an agree­
ment the terms of which were that the death prayer
would be ‘called off’ on condition that the
Irishman left the island by the next outgoing
steamer.
These arrangements having been made and the
death prayer called off, the Irishman soon com­
menced to recover normal health and was able to
leave by the next outgoing steamer.
It is important to note that this and the preceding
example both go to show that the death-producing
factor, whatever it was, could be applied or neutral­
ized at the will of the person operating it.
The Kahunas, who are not so secretive as the
African witch doctors, admit that they employ
discamate spirits for effecting their magic. These
are described as being in the nature of familiar
spirits, attached to families, possessing memory but
not initiative, capable of carrying out instructions
26 D E A D L Y M A G I C
and of so influencing human vital functions as to
cause death.
Leaving magic, either good or bad, out of the
question there is a type of death that resembles
those already referred to in that there are no
symptoms of disease but only a general ‘fading
out' of the vital bodily functions.
DEATH FOLLOWING A ‘DECLINE*
It is an old story that somebody experienced a
great sorrow, went into a ‘decline/ and died of grief.
The term decline is vague, but it seems to include
a sort of ‘fading out’ of the vital bodily functions
from cause or causes unknown, other than grief or
some kindred emotional stress.
Grief and fear have this in common, they are
both emotions, the action of which may be intense
and long continued and, possibly, cause similar
pathological results.
COMBINED SUGGESTION
The following account has no particular relation
to those already mentioned but is of interest as
being something unusual even in the study of
psychology. It is difficult to accord it a place in
the category of ‘white magic/ although it was
employed in a pseudo-religious cause, so it is
doubtful whether the end in view justified the
means employed.
Mention is made in Powers That Be, a book by
Alexander Cannon, M.D., Ph.D., M.A., etc. (1934,
London), of white people in the United States v
of
America who employed psychic methods to
D E A D L Y M A G I C 27
'confuse* another white man whose aims and
objects were at variance with their own. Thirty
of them assembled daily, Sundays excepted, and
for a definite time concentrated their minds on a
fixed determination that the man whose aims and
objects were at variance with their own should be
confused.
This procedure seems to have produced the
desired result, for the man became insane and,
incidentally, his wife died about the same time as
it occurred.
SUPER-NORMAL PHENOMENA
Among our own people, if death or a near
approach to it were unaccompanied by any
observable indications of physical injury, disease,
poison, or lethal drugs, it would be considered an
abnormal if not a super-normal occurrence, and as
there are other happenings which may equally well
be included in that category some account of them
may be of interest.
Of those that may be witnessed under condi­
tions that permit of careful observation are: fire­
walking; hypnotism; suspended animation; and
self-wounding with a weapon.
There are others having some relation to magic
which provide material for inquiry but concerning
which it is difficult to obtain satisfactory evidence
of their true nature; amongst these latter are:
levitation of the human body; materialization of
its etheric double, its rapid transportation to any
distance; telepathic communication between human
beings when far away from each other; prevision;
28 D E A D L Y M A G I C
warnings of danger; telekinesis of material objects
their dematerialization; passage through material
objects, rematerialization on the other side of them;
miraculous cures of injuries and illness; surgical
operations successfully and painlessly performed
without anaesthetics and under primitive condi-
tions; control of wind, rain, and water; trees,
rocks, and other localities as the abode of discam-
ate spirits; the ability of human beings to assume
animal or reptilian form and reassume human form,
still asserted to be true in Asia, Africa and parts oi
Eastern Europe in the year a .d . 1937* i
<
Fire-walking and Fire-proofing ^
Fire-walking demonstrates bare-footed human
beings walking over red-hot stones and wood
embers, also very hot volcanic lava, at a normal 1
length and rate of pace, their feet, bodies and
clothing then being immune from the effects of the ^
heat with no smell of burning. j
Fire-proofing illustrates the handling by human ^
beings of burning coals, wood, and other com- (
bustible materials and hot metal with similar j
immunity. \
A question that readily suggests itself is, how do t
these people manage to do it? t
Some say that they are unable to give a satis- a
factory answer to that question, but, on the other *
hand, the London University Council for Psychic 1
Investigation (L.U.C.P.I.) states in the Listener oi
the n th August, 1937, that the demonstrations 1
arranged for and carried out uilder their auspices J
at Carshalton, Surrey, England, on the 9th and 17th
September, 1935, 7th and 9th April, 1937, and all3
D E A D L Y M A G I C 29
the Alexandra Palace, London, on the 20th April,
1937, furnished “photographic evidence and a mass
of scientific data which enabled them to elucidate
a mystery which has puzzled humanity for at least
2,000 years, the secret being (a) the short contact­
time of each foot with the embers; (b) the low
thermal conductivity of burnt or burning wood
embers; (c) confidence in walking. The experi­
ments proved once and for all that no occult or
psychic power, or a specially induced mental state,
is necessary in a fire-walker.”
The demonstrations in 1935 were made by a
Cashmeri Indian, a professional fire-walker, who on
two separate occasions traversed a fire trench 25 feet
in length which contained hot wood embers, taking
four paces on each occasion which occupied 4.8 and
4.3 seconds respectively. His feet were not burnt
or blistered. Prior to the walk he offered up
prayers. After the second demonstration he said
that he was unable to give another one because he
had become unnerved and had “lost his faith,” and
that if he did it 'again he would bum himself
(British Medical Journal, 15th February, 1936,
p. 338). Two volunteers, white men, essayed the
walk, but their feet were more or less blistered or
burnt. (See the Official Bulletin L.U.C.P.I., 1935;
the Listener, 18th September, 2nd October, 1935,
and further correspondence from 14th August, 1935,
to the end of the year; Nature, 28th September,
1935, 8th February, 1936, p. 213.)
The 1937 demonstrations were illustrated by an
East Indian from Cawnpore, a professional fire-
walker, who traversed hot wood ashes in fire
trenches varying in length on three different days
and measuring 12 feet 6 inches, 20 feet, and 12 feet
30 D E A D L Y M A G I C
respectively. Three quick strides were taken in 1.3
seconds, six in 2.6, and four in 1.6 seconds respect*
ively. He offered up prayers before doing the
walks. He went through the first and third ordeals
unscathed but his feet were blistered on the second
occasion. Some volunteer white men essayed the
walks, but with one exception appeared to lack the
requisite immunity from the effects of heat and their
feet were more or less blistered. (See the Listener
of n th August, 1937, p. 291; and The Times, 8th,
10th and 20th April, 1937.)
Some other examples of the fire-walking ceremony
from abroad will afford material for further con­
sideration. For detailed particulars of an East
Indian fire-walking ceremony carried out at
Pietermaritzburg, Natal, see Man, January, 1933,
Item 2; the pit or fire trench was 32 feet by 12 feet,
the fuel consisted of from four to eight tons of thorn
wood which retains the heat for a longer time than
does wattle or other wood; the fire is kept burning
until the ashes give a depth of nine inches. The
ceremony of fire-walking is preceded by nine days
of religious preparation including abstinence, puri-
fication, and bathing. The priest in charge of the
proceedings, an elderly man, walked slowly through
the hot ashes three times. This procedure appears
to have little or no effect on the feet. It was said
that sometimes a blister or two m ay be caused as
the result of imperfect faith or preparation.
Immunity from burning is not due to any unusual
toughness of the skin, as some of the participants
have been accustomed to wearing boots all their
lives just like Europeans. Of two white men who
took part in the ceremony in 1929 one of them got
off with a blister, but the other, whose attention w*is
D E A D L Y M A G I C 31
attracted by some of his friends in the crowd who
were calling to him as he was passing through the
ashes, had to jump out of the pit. His feet were
rather badly burnt and he was confined to his bed
for some time.
It will be noted that the priest traversed the fire
trench, 32 feet long, three times at a slow pace.
Of special note is the circumstance of the white
man who was walking the fire, apparently immune
from the effects of it at one moment and then,
directly his attention became distracted, the
immunity was suddenly gone and he had to jump
out of the fire. That his attention was distracted
is no explanation of how and why it suddenly
inhibited his immunity, but it affords a suggestion
of some neutralizing current akin to that of
electricity that was suddenly switched off when
the attention was distracted from the fire-walking
ceremony, which, in this instance, was one having
a religious significance.
Western Pacific
The following particulars are taken from an
account by Colonel Gudgeon, British Resident at
Raratonga, which appeared in the Journal, of the
Polynesian Society of Wellington, New Zealand,
Number 29, of March, 1899, and referred to in an
article by Andrew Lang in the Proceedings of the
Society for Psychical Research (P.S.P.R.) Vol. XV,
1900-1, pp. 2-15.
This demonstration illustrated the fire-walking
capabilities of some natives of Mbenga Island, which
is about 20 miles to the southward of Suva, the
capital of Viti Levu Island of the Fijian group.
D E A D L Y M A G I C
These men are a small remnant of a priestly order
who claim to possess the hereditary capability of
undergoing the ordeal of fire-walking with immunity
from the usual effects of such heat.
Preparatory to the demonstration an attempt was
made to ascertain the temperature at a height of five
or six feet above the heated stones and embers of
wood in the pit where the ordeal was to take place. *
A thermometer graduated to 400 degrees Fahrenheit
mounted in a substantial metal case was suspended
over the fire pit, “but had to be withdrawn almost
immediately as the solder began to melt and drop,
and it is certain that had not this accident occurred
the range of the thermometer would have been
exceeded and the thermometer burst; however, it
registered 282 F. (139 C.) before being withdrawn.”
The priest and his pupils walked slowly and
deliberately over two fathoms of stones hot enough»
to cause Ti tree branches to blaze. The walk took
30 seconds.
It is further mentioned that Fijians are able to
walk quickly and unharmed across and among
white-hot stones which have been heated in the
oven (circular pit) for 36 or 48 hours.
Lady Thurston, wife of a Governor of Fiji, w
ho
was present at this demonstration, threw her hand­
kerchief upon the shoulder of one of the actors, and
though it remained there but a few seconds before
being picked off by means of a long stick it w
as
'greatly scorched.' On conclusion of the demonstra­
tion by the natives the priest handed over his 'Mana'
(supernormal power) to Mr. Goodwin, at whose
place the ceremony came off, and told him “ lead
your friends across" (the fire p it).
Three whites got over all right but the fourth was
33
D E A D L Y MAGI C
badly burned “because he looked behind him," a
thing against all rules. The narrator, Colonel
Gudgeon, walked slowly. Fire-walking power is
possessed by a limited few (Fijians) and the
narrator was assured that any person holding the
hand of one of the fire-walkers could himself pass
through the oven uninjured. This the natives
positively assert.
If the temperature at a height of five or six feet
above the hot stones in the fire pit was sufficiently
high to melt the solder of a substantial metal case
of a thermometer almost as soon as it was placed
in such position, and to badly scorch in a few seconds
a handkerchief about the same level and to cause
Ti tree branches (possibly green) to blaze when
dropped on the stones, it indicates that under such
conditions not only the feet but the whole body of
the fire-walker is immune from the effects of the
heat, inflammable clothing included.
Why does looking back during the progress of
a fire-walk cause a cessation of immunity from
burning?
Does the distraction of attention from the purpose
in view, the fire-walk, automatically switch off an
immunizing agency from its operation? If so, what
is that agency and how does it operate?
Why does the holding the hand of a fire-walking
adept confer immunity, and does it suggest that
it may be some force or current akin to but of
different wave-length or vibration from that of
electricity?
Reference is made to a furnace 45 feet long at
Suva, Fiji, which was walked by natives, slowly,
by some of them three or four times (Journal
S.P.R., January, 1934).
c
34 D E A D L Y M A G I C
Further reference is made to the Mbenga Fire-
walkers in the Proceedings of the New Zealand *
Institute, Vol. XXXI, 1898.
The Polynesian Journal, Vol. II, numbers 2 and
3, gives an account of Tongan ovens (fire pits) 30
feet in diameter with stones at red and white heat,
over which the bare-footed natives walked five times
in a leisurely manner with not even the smell of fire *
on their garments.
In Max Freedom Long's book Recovering the
Ancient Magic (Case 9, page 50), 1936, London:
Rider & Co., he recounts how a flow of burning
hot volcanic lava was crossed by three bare-footed
Hawaiian natives who sustained no injuries in the
process, whereas a white man, who was accompany­
ing them and, as a precaution, kept on his big
hobnailed walking-boots and two pairs of socks,
had them destroyed in crossing the flow which was,
about 150 feet in width. The narrator said that he
started to run over the lava, but after taking a few
steps the soles of his boots began to burn; they
curled up and shrank, thus compressing his feet,
the seams gave way, one sole became detached, the
other was still attached at the heel but not else­
where, and was flapping about. Having crossed
the flow he jumped to safety and then beat out fire
smouldering in his socks. The three Kahunas were
laughing heartily and pointing to the heel and sole
of his left boot which lay smoking and ‘burned to
a crisp' on the lava. There was not a blister on
the narrator's feet!
The author observes that fire magic works in
strange ways which are little related to the laws o
f
science. Very true; it would be interesting to know
the scientific explanation as to why the narrator^
D E A D L Y M A G I C 35
boots and socks were burned, but not so his feet
and ankles!
An account by Sir Janies Purves-Stewart,
K.C.M.G., C.B., and Professor D. Waterson, St.
Andrew’s University, is given in the 28th
December, 1935, p. 1,267, of a fire-walking cere­
mony carried out by natives of Mbenga Island of
the Fijian group on the 29th August, 1935.
Diameter of fire pit 15 feet, depth four to five feet,
stones the size of footballs formed the floor, and on
top of which were glowing logs of wood which had
been alight for nine to ten hours. The ceremony
was of a religious nature. Paper thrown on the
embers just prior to the demonstration burst into
flames almost immediately. The performers walked
over the pit in single file with footsteps of an aver­
age nature, each foot was placed on the same stone
as that on which the foot of the predecessor had
been placed, the pace was not hurried, then they
walked some steps just within the circumference,
bundles of leaves and rushes were then scattered
over the stones completely covering the central part.
The performers by this time standing at the edge
of the pit then returned into it and sat down care­
fully on the vegetation, huddled round the leader
in the centre and facing him, and after a short
interval rose and walked out of the pit.
The feet were examined but showed no burns or
blisters; they were not particularly hard, only just
what might be expected of people who had been
used to walk bare-footed all their lives. No fire­
proofing preparation used. The question of the
immunity was considered under six headings in the
last of which the account said “ The phenomenon
was Transient therm-anaesthesia’ of the soles of the
D E A D L Y M A G I C
36
feet, due mainly to suggestion, either auto­
suggestion by the performers themselves, or
hetero-suggestion by their native chief or priest or
some other authority/* (Subsequent correspond­
ence indicates divergence of views.) Professor
K. W. Bouman, a distinguished neurologist of
Amsterdam, who was present at the ceremony,
agrees that the religious ritual within the prayer
hut is a preparatory ceremony for the purpose of
purifying the devotees prior to the fire-walking, and
that this ceremony is of fundamental importance to
the performers. Professor Bouman witnessed
similar performances in Java where the religious
part of the ceremony is of the highest importance
and is an indispensable preliminary for the fire­
walking.
The importance of the preparatory religious part
of the ceremony so strongly emphasized is of very
great significance, as is also the view that auto- or
hetero-hypnosis is an immunizing factor, ‘therm-
anaesthesia/ for it has been demonstrated by
experimenters in hypnotism that blisters similar in
appearance to those caused by the application of
heat can be made to appear on the flesh of a
subject without the application of any heat, and
by command or suggestion of the hypnotizer alone.
The converse process of "therm-anaesthesia* should
therefore be within range of possibility.
The intense heat radiated by the hot stones and
embers already referred to if not insulated from the
bodies of the fire-walkers would undoubtedly scorch
them, and as examples have been given when they
were not so scorched it sedjms to point to the fact
that there must be some invisible fire-proof insula­
tion affording the necessary protection. An aura
D E A D L Y MAGI C 37
surrounds the human body, but whether it has fire­
proof capabilities is not known. It is visible to
some persons possessing extra-sensory perception
and to others with normal eyesight if provided with
special optical appliances designed for such purpose.
For those interested in the subject see The Origin
and Properties of the Human Aura, by Oscar
Bagnall, B.A.Cantab. London: Kegan Paul
Trubner & Co.
Fire-proofing
D. D. Home, a native of Scotland, period circa
1870, was a remarkable demonstrator of fire-proof­
ing and the handling of blazing coals. During his
illustrations of this power he was able to confer
fire-proof immunity on others for the time being.
Some super-normal occurrences in the way of
levitation of his body and telekinesis of material
objects are related of him and the late Sir William
Crookes, O.M., F.R.S., also the Earl of Dunraven
witnessed and reported on a good many seances
which were conducted in their presence.
(See P.S.P.R., Vol. VI, 1889-90;* IX, 1893-4;
XIV, 1898-9; XV, 1900-1; XXXI, 1920-21;*
XXXV, 1924-25;* XXXVI, 1928.)
A d d it io n a l R e fe r e n c e s to t h e S u bject of
F ir e -W a l k in g a n d F ir e -P r o o fin g
E n c y c lo p e d ia B ritan n ica.
M odern M yth o lo g y. 1875*
The M akin g of R eligion . 1898 > Andrew Lang.
M agic a n d R eligion . 1901. J
♦Fire-proofing accounts.
D E A D L Y MAGI C
South Sea Yarns. Sir Basil Thomson.
Les Homines Salamandres. 1931. Paris, Desche de
Brouwer et Cie.
Women Called W ild. Rosita Forbes. 1936. Grayson &
Grayson.
Recueil de Folk Lore, de L itterature et de Science. Edited
by the Bulgarian Minister of Public Instruction.
Les Dompteurs de Feu. Dr. Th. Pascal. Annales des
Sciences Physiques, July, August, 1899.
Man. 1905, 83, India; 1904, 31A, 45; 1933, 49.
Proceedings Society for P sychical R esearch. Vol. XVII,
1901-3, XL, 1930-32; XLII, Summary, India, China,
Japan, Oceania, Experiments, Discussions, Heated
Stones.
The Journal S .P .R ., 22nd November, 1927; June, 1928;
October, 1028.
Journal of the Polynesian Society. Vol. II, number 2,
29th number, Wellington, New Zealand.
Journal of the N ew Zealand In stitu te. XXXV, 187.
Indian Antiquary. II, 1873, 190, 300.
The Month. February-March, 1932.
Nature. 22nd August, 1901; nth December, 1902; 28th
September, 1935; 8th February, 1936.
British Medical Journal. 28th September, 26th October,
1935; nth, 25th January, 1st, 8th, 22nd, 29th February,
7th March, 1936.
The Listener. 6th November, 1935.
The Balkan Herald. January, 1936.
The Field. 20th May, 1894.
Hypnotism
Hypnotism, formerly called Mesmerism, has been
rather shunned by science, possibly because it is
invisible, and cannot be weighed, measured and
examined, and perhaps also its introduction to the
public afforded many opportunities for fraud which
caused ridicule and derision; nevertheless, its effects
have been demonstrated under conditions that
excluded any such possibility, so that at the present
D E A D L Y M A G I C | 3 9
time it is much better understood in Europe than
it was not so very long ago, and it is possible that
it was still better understood in Egypt and the East
m any centuries before it was ever practised in
Europe.
Hypnotism and spiritualism having both been
exploited by some fraudulent people, it is as well
to maintain a critical rather than a credulous frame
of mind with regard to them, but they are of con­
siderable importance as probably being master keys
which may unlock several doors which afford access
to abodes where magic keeps its secrets concealed.
This state may be induced, to some extent,
subjectively, that is auto-hypnosis, or objectively
by an operator influencing another human being,
or for that matter some animals, birds, and reptiles.
Snakes are credited with being able to hypnotize
some birds, but certainly not all species of them,
and instances have been reported, in the region of
the River Amazon, of the anaconda exercising such
influence on a human being, but the latter may have
been a misconstruction of a reaction to the emotion
of fear and should only be accepted with consider­
able reserve.
Hypnotism of different species of snakes by
human beings is of common occurrence in Africa
and Asia; some remarkable modem instances are
reported from Egypt. For details of the latter see
A Search in Secret Egypt, by Paul Brunton. 1936.
London : Rider & C o.; and Wide World Magazine,
November, 1936, and March, 1937, articles by Sir
A. H. Seton, Bart., and H. L. Parker.
Pythons are sometimes believed to be the abode
of spirits, often ancestral, that telepathically convey
information and advice to their associates with
D E A D L Y MAGI C
whom they live, usually a pythoness, as in ancient
Greece or Modern Africa. (See T o m to m s in the
Night, 1932; Hidden Africa, 1933; B la c k Mist,
1933, by Attilo Gatti. London: Hutchinson &Co.)
King cobras, hamadryads, not usually supposed
to ensure longevity in human beings, are said to
live on amicable terms with a certain native family
in Upper Burmah on the borders of the Shan States, >
but only for a definite time, the duration of which
must be strictly adhered to, otherwise there is a
prospect of trouble. Three sisters are said to be
able to exercise complete control over king cobras
and handle them with immunity. Going out into
the jungle they make an annual capture of the finest
specimens obtainable and on returning to their
village release their former pets exactly a year after
the date of their capture and substitute newly caught
ones in their place. This programme is most care- .
fully adhered to. An instance was recorded of its
non-observance when a girl retained a particular
favourite beyond the stated time and was awarded
instant death, not by her family, but by the snake,
which, for some reason, known only to the women,
“was automatically released from its magnetic
state,” the secret of the operation of which is known
only to the three sisters and closely guarded by
them. (See The Illustrated London Nei#s, w
ith
photographs, 3rd October, 1931.) Indfih Yogis
are credited with the ability of establishing friendly
relations with wild herbivorous animals, some oi
the carnivora, birds and snakes.
Some of our own countrymen undoubtedly
possess the art of mastering vicious and intract'
able horses, for example the Irish ‘horse whisperers.’
A person in the hypnotic state may or may not
D E A D L Y M A G I C 41
retain consciousness while under this influence and
be then insensible to pain, muscular action may be
very much augmented or entirely inhibited; the
operator may, by suggestion or command, induce
in the subject the experience of physical reactions
to heat, cold, pain, hunger, and thirst, or of
assuming the role of a personality other than
their own.
During deep hypnosis the memory may be
explored, so it is asserted, as far back as the pre­
natal state of existence, and even farther, which
latter, however, opens up the subject of reincarna­
tion, a belief more favoured in Asia than in Europe.
Clairvoyance and clairaudience, while in the
hypnotic state, may furnish an accurate descrip­
tion of events happening not within sight or
hearing of the hypnotized person, confirmed by
subsequent verification, thus displaying an ability
to see and hear without the aid of the normal optical
and auditory processes and unlimited by the matter
of distance.
Self-hypnosis is practised in the East with the
object of dissociating the mind from mundane
affairs and distractions, and establishing contact
with discarnate entities on a higher plane of
spiritual development than their own, and also of
‘realizing reality/ that is, for example, for the time
being, becoming the colours composing a sunset,
the oversoul of a forest, the flame of a fire, or the
personality of an animal.
Suspended Animation
There are numerous well-authenticated accounts
of suspended animation of the bodily functions of
D E A D L Y MA GI C
human beings, resembling a state of catalepsy or
hibernation, which may continue for weeks, and, in
some cases, their burial alive for that period (See
A Search in Secret Egypt, by Paul Brunton, p. 104.
1936. London: Rider & Co.). Demonstrations
have been given under test conditions conducted
by persons qualified to carry out the same.
How it is all managed without casualties is not *
generally known, and those who do know will not
disclose their secrets to inquirers.
A casualty is mentioned as occurring in the case
of an Indian fakir who was buried alive in a state
of suspended animation but not properly protected
from the attack of white ants. The part attacked
was the brain; death had occurred some time
previous to exhumation at the appointed time.
Self-wounding with a Weapon
Demonstrations which give the impression that
immunity from pain and the physical effects of
woundscaused by weapons, such as may be afforded
whenin the hypnotic state, are illustrated by a series
of still and moving photographs of a ceremony
during which the devotees of a Moslem regions
cult resident in India pierce their faces and throats
with metal daggers, having blades about nine inches
long, and drive one of them into the top of the head
in a vertical direction to a depth of about three or
four inches, and this without apparent pain, loss of
blood, or ill effects, while a short time after the
weapons have been withdrawn, the wounds heal
up and in the course of a day or two leave no traces.
These demonstrations were carried out in broad
daylight, in the presence of Europeans specially
D E A D L Y MAGI C 43
qualified to observe and report on such occurrences,
and photographed under strict conditions which
ensured accuracy and a bona fide representation of
the proceedings. The question of fraud, conjuring,
or illusion does not arise, neither was it possible to
hypnotize the recording photographic apparatus.
DISCARNATE SPIRITS
Belief in the existence of discamate spirits can
be traced back as far as historical records afford
evidence; it is common to all races of mankind in
different stages of cultural development, and to the
principal religious bodies of the world, some of
which include in their heirarchy Angels, Arch­
angels, Cherubim, Seraphim and the Saints in
Glory, also the spirits and souls of the righteous.
Holy Scripture also makes mention of evil spirits,
devils, and the devil.
Orthodox spiritualistic teaching affirms the
existence of discarnate spirits which are in various
stages of spiritual development from bad to good,
and analogous to the Biblical grades from devils to
Angels. *
For concordance references between modem
psychic phenomena and somewhat similar ones
related in Holy Scripture, and possessing evidential
value of a high order, see the Rev. L. Tweedale’s
book Man's Survival After Death. 1920. London:
Grant Richards.
The existence and intercommunication of dis­
camate and incarnate spirits forms the subject
matter of a vast number of publications and affords
evidence supplied from personal investigations.
44 D E A D L Y MAGI C
Many persons well informed on the subject hold
entirely different views with regard to it.
That communications are made through mediums,
which purport to come from discamate human
spirits, is quite certain, but, the origin of such com­
munications is one of the matters about which
opinions may and do differ. ^ —
Orthodox spiritualists maintain that discamate
human spirits can and do make such communica­
tions; others, who do not hold this opinion, while
admitting that some communications may come
from a personality other than that of the medium,
are of opinion that such originate in the conscious
or subconscious minds of incarnate human beings,
and are produced by telepathy, i.e., thought trans­
ference, and do not come from discamate spirits,
and there can be but little doubt that in some cases
this may be a reasonable assumption; on the other
hand, there are experiences which provide good
evidential support for an exactly opposite conclu­
sion which confirms the correctness of the orthodox
spiritualist's beliefs.
Such a confirmation was afforded quite
unexpectedly by the officer in command of the
wrecked airship Rioi, who was killed at the time
of the catastrophe. The circumstances are related
in Leaves from a Psychist's Note-book, by Harry
Price. 1933. London: Victor Gollancz.
The medium, at the sitting when this occurred,
has the highest credentials regarding her integrity,*
neither she nor any of those present at the time
had any technical knowledge of airships or theii
mechanical appliances. The message 'came
through’ unexpectedly and urgently; it was taker
down in writing at once, by a stenographer; it w
as
D E A D L Y MAGI C 45
subsequently submitted to an Air Force authority
for information and comment because it was of a
technical nature, giving details of what went wrong
with the mechanism and other particulars having
reference to the cause of the disaster.
The remarks made by the Air Force authority
were confirmatory of the general correctness of
the details given in the message, with only some
minor exceptions where difference of opinion
was admissible, but no material errors were
apparent.
This is the more remarkable as difficulty was
encountered by the stenographer in dealing with
unfamiliar technical words and the urgency with
which they were delivered.
POSSESSION BY SPIRITS
The ‘possession’ of the minds and bodies of
human beings by discamate spirits, sometimes evil
ones, is a very old belief, world wide and mentioned
in‘Holy Scripture.
The matter of dual personality is also related to
this subject, and for those interested in it from a
present-day point of view Dr. Carl Wickland’s book,
Thirty Years Among the Dead, is recommended. It
gives many examples of ‘possession,’ their treat­
ment and cures effected.
The account in the 5th chapter of St. Mark’s
Gospel of a vrrian‘who was possessed of so many
devils that their name was legion, is of particular
interest.
These devils gave him such extraordinary physical
strength that he had often broken chains and fetters
D E A D L Y M A G I C
46
so that no man could bind him, and the devils were
so numerous that when they were cast out they
entered into and drove mad a herd of about 2,000
pigs so that they ran violently down a steep place
into the sea and were choked by it.
What happened to the devils after that is not
stated, but, no doubt, it would be entry into an
environment more suited to their mentality and
of a much lower order than that of a pig, which
animal obviously preferred suicide to demoniac
possession. i n t 9 f r ct
This incident may furnish some association of ideas
with a very ancient and widely spread belief in the
efficacy of water as a purifying agent and neutralizer
of evil spirit influences, as m ay be gathered from its
present-day employment at baptismal sacraments
and ceremonials,
ere: fzc=. _
pp
g
-
U s C & $ H / r x T /^ 3
THE HUMAN POWER PLANT
For years past it has been a m atter for inquiry as
to what is the nature of the motive power which
operates the bodily functions—circulation, respira­
tion, alimentation, nerves, brain, glands, and
others.
Hypnotic influence, w hatever that term may
imply, can emanate in the brain of one person and
produce effects in the brain of another which result
in dynamic physiological action.
Electricity, magnetism, and gravitation, can also
cause dynamic effects, so in th at respect they and
hypnotism possess a common characteristic.
Delicate scientific instrum ents are able to record
variations produced by the action of thought,
D E A D L Y M A G I C 47
thereby giving a suggestion that it may be akin to,
so called, electric waves or vibrations.
For over 20 years Dr. George Crile has carried
on research work dealing with the subject of 'shock/
and his conclusions have a very important bearing
on the matter under discussion.
Dr. George Crile’s Research Work
In his book The Phenomena of Life. 1936.
London: William Heinemann, Ltd., Dr. Crile
explains, among other things, the motor mechanics
of the human body, which is an aggregation of
millions of cells which have different characteristics
and functions, and all of which are of microscopic
dimensions and of protoplasmic nature, each one
serving the purpose of a very minute bi-polar
electrical accumulator or battery, with make-and-
break mechanism enabling them to be charged up
and furnish a supply of electrical current to other
and larger accumulators connected through a
complicated network of nerves with the brain, thus
providing the necessary electro-motive power for
the working of all the bodily functions.
The description provides an analogy to that of a
complicated telephone system with the brain as the
central exchange, the organs of sight, hearing, taste,
smell, and touch acting as subsidiary exchanges,
from which nerves branch out to all parts of the
body and serve the purpose of conductors of the
electrical motive force.
This most interesting book should be read in order
to obtain a full appreciation of the scientific impli­
cations relating to a wider understanding of human
and other physiology, hitherto obscure.
48 D E A D L Y M A G I C
THE DUCTLESS GLANDS
The subject of ductless glands, their action and
reaction, is of a very technical nature; the following
remarks are therefore brief.
Three of these glands, inter alia, regulate the
supply, employment, and stimulation of bodily
energy; they are the thyroid, pituitary, and
adrenals.
Each of these glands secretes a hormone, of a
characteristic chemical formula, which causes
definite physiological effects when introduced into
the circulatory system, being specially active when,
in response to a call from the brain, they are
required to meet some emergency such as a danger
of physical injury or circumstances causing intense
emotion such as anger, fear, anxiety.
If an intense mental stimulus is maintained fa
a sufficiently long period of time the action a
reaction of the ductless glands continues to operate
synchronously with the emotion which causes it.
Employing a familiar analogy, it is like keeping
the self-starter of a motor-car working continuously
with the gears in neutral; result, the accumulate
is run down.
The sequence of even ts in the case of sudden
danger or strong emotion is somewhat as follows
Something occurs of which the personality <
#
soul is made aware of through the medium
of the sense organs.
Appropriate action taken by personality <
*
soul.
D E A D L Y M A G I C 49
Ductless gland or glands stimulated accord­
ingly.
Hormone or hormones secreted and introduced
into circulatory system.
Bodily functions appropriately stimulated, con­
trolled and regulated so as to meet the
situation in a suitable manner.
Expenditure of electro-motive power relatively
large during period of abnormal stimulation.
If abnormal stimulation continues indefinitely,
the expenditure of electro-motive power will
be in excess of the supply, and in due course
it will all be used up.
Vital functions, circulation, respiration, the
digestive tract, nervous system, and all
subsidiaries will cease functioning—DEATH.
ANALYSIS
It remains to collate and compare the examples
brought to notice of death, or a near approach to
it, resulting from circumstances in which the lethal
effects of injury, disease, poison, or drugs, can be
excluded.
1. Employment of Pointing Stick.
2. Prisoner in Indian Gaol.
3. English Retired Business Man.1
1African Bad Medicine used on I N ^ v e .
e J \ White Man.
5*
6. Hawaiian Death Prayer.
7. A Decline.
D E A D L Y M A G I C
No. 6. The Hawaiian Death Prayer
This will be the first to be considered so as to
afford an early opportunity of forming some con-
elusion as to whether or no the Kahuna made use
of a discarnate spirit, perhaps of a more or less
elemental nature, in such a manner as to cause
slow paralysis of the lower limbs of the taxi-driver
together with a threatening general collapse.
The most certain way to find out whether this case
represents a typical illustration of Hawaiian bad
magic is to make personal investigation on the spot,
failing which the word of somebody else must b
e
accepted or rejected, and if the latter that settles
the matter, but if, on the other hand, it is worth
while discussing, then it seems that the Irish taxi-
driver was unexpectedly and mysteriously taken ff
l
with some complaint that two European doctors
were unable either to diagnose or cure, but that a
third one was able to attribute it to the action o
(
the death prayer, but could not, with his o
w
n
knowledge and skill, arrest its effects or provide a
cure, so he had to arrange with the Kahuna to d
o
both, and who, in due course, called off the death
prayer, and the sick man soon became sufficient!)'
convalescent to leave the island by the next out­
going steamer.
Paralysis is said to be the loss or impairment o
t
voluntary muscular power, and that the loss
motor power may be functional or organic (E#-
Brit.).
In the case under notice the loss of motor po#
may be attributed to functional derangement-
because there is no mention of any physical injutf
The symptoms mentioned afford a suggestion tltf1
D E A D L Y MAGI C 51
the electro-motive force of the man’s body was being
gradually and increasingly reduced. Whether this
reduction was due to the expenditure of E.M.F.
being greater than its supply, or that the accumu­
lators were not being adequately charged up, or
the current earthed, short-circuited, or otherwise
diverted from its usual circuits, is not known.
Mr. Max Freedom Long, in his book above
referred to, mentions a case in which a white man,
possessing a good knowledge of some of the methods
of Hawaiian native magic, averted the fatal effects
of a death prayer from one of his native employees
who made a complete recovery.
By appropriate exhortations and commands the
white man succeeded in persuading the spirit
entities to return to their sender and to apply
their instructions to him, the sender, and not the
employee. This they did most effectually, for it
was ascertained that the sender’s death occurred
shortly afterwards, and this owing to his neglect
to take certain necessary precautions prior to send­
ing the spirit entities on their mission.
This leads up to the subject of exorcism which
has been in the past, and may still be employed
by those duly qualified to use this means for
counteracting the spirit powers of evil, and is
further referred to under Case 5, African Bad
Medicine.
Correlation to No. 5, African Bad Medicine
This case of the Irish taxi-driver is correlated to
No. 5, that of African Bad Medicine employed on
a white man—the causation and cessation of the
death prayer and bad medicine were admitted by
52 D E A D L Y M A G I C
the Kahuna and witch doctor respectively; further­
more, the symptoms in both cases were so much
alike as to exclude causal coincidence evidential or
pathological, thereby giving a suggestion that both
illnesses were caused by a similar agency, namely,
primitive discamate elemental spirit or spirits made
use of by a primitive incarnate human being.
If the existence and employment of discamate
spirits of evil propensities has to be taken into
consideration, then the services of a minister of
religion are obviously indicated together with such
exorcism as is appropriate to the circumstances.
For many centuries tens of thousands of people
have found the Sign of the Cross and all that it
represents, the surest and safest protection against
the spiritual powers of evil, and with all due rever­
ence, the same is commended to your notice with
a view to its influence in any case of bad magic
presenting similar features to those under discussion.
African Bad Medicine, Nos. 4 and 5
Nos. 4 and 5 are closely related, both being
examples of African bad medicine, the technique
of which is not known, only its effects which, in
the case of the court orderly, were those of severe
mental stress causing death somewhat unexpectedly-
The court orderly would almost certainly have
a firmly established belief that bad medicine
would cause him to die, and, possibly, that subse­
quent to death some very dreadful fate awaited
him.
This would, undoubtedly, produce a condition of
great mental stress which would have results already
suggested, but, what is most significant is, that in
D E A D L Y MA GI C 53
the case of the white man, No. 5, he had, so far
as is known, no such beliefs or even any knowledge
of bad medicine or of its effects; therefore, in the
case of the court orderly, No. 4, it seems likely that
severe mental stress, although an important factor
in causing his death, was not the only one, and the
only other one at present in evidence, is that of a
discamate elemental spirit or spirits as stated to have
been employed by the Hawaiian Kahuna.
No. 1* The Australian Pointing Stick
No. I, the Australian Pointing Stick has features
in common with No. 4, African Bad Medicine on
a Native; No. 5, African Bad Medicine on a White
Man; and No. 6, The Hawaiian Death Prayer; but
any evidence of the employment by the Australian
aborigine of discamate elemental spirits is lacking,
though possibly a matter for inquiry.
If, however, neither pointing bone nor stick had
been employed, and a black fellow happened to feel
ill, and then attributed his malaise to bad magic,
and afterwards sickened and died, the same would
be attributable to ‘shock’ caused by the running
down of the human accumulators by the action of
the emotion of fear, resulting from a firmly estab­
lished belief in the tmth of tribal tradition in respect
of the pointing stick magic.
On the other hand, if a lethal message was trans­
mitted from the pointing bone or stick to the
body of the victim, it is desirable to have some
information about it.
It is known that there are such things as brain
waves, and that they can be detected by delicate
scientific instruments, but in the absence of more
54 D E A D L Y M A G I C
definite information it will be necessary to make
use of an analogy.
The murderer represents directing intelligence at
a wireless station, the pointing bone or stick the
aerial, the victim a receiving-set tuned in to the
correct wave-length employed by the transmitting
station.
The incoming message will, in some manner at
present unexplained, be required to produce such
effect on the brain as to result in 'shock' and
death.
There are, at the present time, very m any people
who firmly believe in the sinister influence of the
'evil eye.' Perhaps there may be some foundation
of fact to justify their belief?
Nos. 2, 3 and 7
As regards No. 2, Prisoner in Indian Gaol; No.
3, The Retired Business Man; and No. 7, The
Decline: all have a similar ending, a gradual
'fading out' of the vital functions with no
apparent indication of any disease, poison, lethal
drugs, physical injury, or bad magic.
The original cause of the trouble was psycho­
logical: No. 2 a wish to die, with the mind
apparently placid and resigned, no excitement;
No. 3 a wish to die, dominant emotional despair,
consequent on public disgrace; No. 7, in general
terms, the absence of any particular wish to live,
owing to circumstances which caused grief, despair,
or despondency.
Predisposing causes require to be taken into
consideration, also those of a contributory nature
such as general disturbance of the bodily functions,
D E A D L Y M A G I C 55
los9 of appetite, inadequate nutrition with lack of
vitality.
The obvious treatment of such cases is the allevia­
tion and elimination of the mental condition that
caused the trouble in the first instance, and this
matter comes within the sphere of a physician
possessing a special knowledge of psychology and
in which category may be included some ministers
of religion.
General Considerations
Consideration of the foregoing examples of
unusual or supernormal happenings leaves but little
doubt that death or a near approach to it may be
caused by psychological agency.
The terms used when referring to such things are,
naturally, of importance, and should be of such a
nature as neither to distort nor confuse the truth.
Magic when properly understood and its effects
either proved or disproved is, then, no longer magic,
but scientific fact, illusion, or plain fiction.
Physical science text-books are not as static as
those dealing with mathematics, the principles of
geometry are not quite so axiomatic as they were
in the days of Euclid; Time, which some of us were
taught to regard as a measurement of duration and
a Factor when calculating distances travelled by
matter when in motion, is now, by some people,
termed a Dimension (space-time) as if it were -a
measurement of length, breadth, and height.
The nature of hypnotic influence, telepathy and
their congeners, when thoroughly understood,
will, doubtless, be accorded a suitable scientific
terminology.
56 D E A D L Y M A G I C
Magic, call it what you wish, so long as it does
not include conjuring tricks, illusions, and such like,
certainly does seem to obtain results, at any rate
sometimes, in which case the effects cannot be
explained away either by ridicule, incredulity, or
discrediting such evidence as is available, and of
this there is a very large amount, but psychic
phenomena are elusive; they cannot always be
turned on and off when so desired, and from their
nature they render research work difficult.
The discovery of the principles of transmission by
wireless apparatus of records of sight and sound has
indirectly been the means of providing a possible
explanation of what seems to be ‘mental wireless
communication’ between certain insects, birds and
mammals, without any other accessories than those
with which nature has provided them.
It will be a subject of very great interest when
details of the special sense organs by means of which
these phenomena are made possible and the waves
or vibrations employed in the process (if any) have
been discovered, investigated, and published by the
scientific institutions concerned.
Combined Suggestion
As to whether combined suggestion, as men­
tioned, did cause a man to become insane, or that
it was only a coincidence, is open to argument, but
it is significant that the time factor is common to
both occurrences—the suggestion and the insanity;
if, however, it be assumed that such insanity was
caused by the suggestion, then, it seems fairly
obvious that it must have been conveyed from the
minds of those who made it to that of the recipient,
D E A D L Y M A G I C 57
and by some means and in such manner as to cause
insanity, whatever that term may imply; this
information not being available, an analogy will
take its place: The persons who operated the
suggestion may be compared to a wireless trans­
mitting station and the brain of the man who
became insane to a wireless receiving-set tuned in
to the wave-length of the transmitting station.
If this analogy holds good then there is an
opportunity for some useful research work on the
nature of the phenomenon indicated; to term it
telepathy is of little help for that is only a term
and not an explanation.
If it be assumed that this occurrence did take
place as stated, it should afford to religious bodies
an inspiring illustration of the power of united
mental concentration, even when directed on the
attainment of an anti-social purpose—how much
the more powerful it might be when the united
prayers of a truly religiously minded congregation
were concentrated on the attainment of some
spiritual influence which would be in harmony
with Divine Law is a matter for them to think
out for themselves.
Conclusion
A thorough understanding of the modus operandi
of bad magic in relation to its possible pathological
effects should be helpful in counteracting them, as
was the knowledge of the virus and micro-organism
to the medical profession in the treatment of disease.
By the courtesy of the Editor, permission has
been granted to reprint the following article which
appeared in the Morning Post of the 3rd August,
D E A D L Y M A G I C
1937, and provides an excellent example of the
employment of the pointing bone bad magic
among the aborigines of Western Australia.
THE M O RNING P O S T , T U E S D A Y , A U G U S T 3, 1937
BLACK MAGIC v. WHITE
Doctors Fight For Native’s Life
STORY OF THE BUSH
From O ur O w n C o rresp o n d e n t
SYDNEY.
‘White’ and ‘Black Magic’ are struggling for the l
i
f
e
of Hector, a famous Kimberley (Western Australia) n
a
t
i
v
e
,
who is lying at the Forest River Mission Station suffering
from the conviction that his enemies are killing him w
i
t
h
‘black magic.’ They have ‘pointed the bone’ at him.
The White doctors have accepted the challenge, and a
re
pitting ‘White man’s magic’ against black. If they succeed
in curing Hector of his fear and instilling into him the w
ill
to live they will have accomplished an unprecedented feat
which will resound through the bush and may put an en
d
to the witch doctors’ hitherto supreme power of life a
n
d
death.
Hector achieved fame for his endurance a few y
e
a
r
s
ago following his finding of the German flyers Bertram
and Klausman, who had crashed on the North-west C
o
a
s
t
.
He ran at top speed for 37 hours over rough country t
o
Wyndham to take the news of his discovery of the wrecked
plane.
P itiable Condition
This once fine, upstanding aboriginal is now a shadow
of his former self.
He tells missionaries who are endeavouring to assist him
that he is tortured every night in his dreams by natives
with spears.
D E A D L Y MAGI C 59
After the publicity following the finding of the German
airmen, who were marooned for several weeks, Hector
returned to the bush. Then one of Hector’s relatives died,
and was buried at the mission. This native died a natural
death following an internal complaint, but aborigines must
find a valid reason for a black man’s death, and must make
one of their tribesmen responsible, if only indirectly. In
this instance, suspicion fell on Hector, although there
seemed no logical reason.
Hector thereupon ran away into the bush where he has
since been living as an outcast. Recently he crawled into
the camp of Dick Davidson, stockman at the Forest River
mission station, late at night, in a pitiable condition. He
had shrunk to an aged, shrivelled and bent figure, who
was frightened at his own shadow—another remarkable
instance of ‘black magic.’
But Hector has a fighting chance for his life. The Forest
River missionaries report that his health has begun to
improve slightly. They are trying to overcome, by their
ministrations, the abject fear and lack of desire to live
instilled by the witch-doctor who ‘pointed the bone’ at him,
a curse to which the inevitable end, according to the native
mind, is death.
THE END
S o m e B o o k s H a v in g R e f e r e n c e t o t h e S u b je c t o f
M a g ic a n d S u p e r -n o r m a l P h e n o m e n a
A fter L ife. The D iagnosis of a P h ysician . Dr. William
Wilson. 1936. London: Rider & C o. The develop­
ment of the human organism from birth to physical
death.
A ru n ta , The. Vol. 2, 1927. Sir Baldwin Spenser,
K.C.M.G., F.R.S., and F. J. Gillan. London:
Macmillan & Co'.
B e a sts, M en, a n d G ods. Ossendowski. 1923. London:
Edward Arnold. The Far East and Tibet.
B la ck A rt, T he. Rollo Ahmed. 1936. London: John
Long.
B la ck M ist. Attilo Gatti. 1933. London: Hutchinson &
Co.
D e a th T horn, T he. Alma M. Carlin. 1934. London:
G. Allen & Unwin. Investigations chiefly in Central and
South America.
D etec tio n of D isease, T he. Oscar Parkes, O.B.E., M.B.,
Ch.B., and Eric Perkins, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. 1930.
London: Sampson, Low, Marston & Co. The use of an
electric detector.
E n cyclopcedia B rita n n ica .
G lan ds R e g u la tin g P erso n a lity /T h e . Louis Berman, M.D.
1928. New York: Macmillan & Co.
G rea t P ro b le m a n d th e E v id e n c e fo r its S olu tion. G. L.
Johnson, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.S., F.R.S., etc. 1935.
London: Rider & Co. A criticism on super-normal
happenings.
H id d e n A frica . Attilo Gatti. 1933. London: Hutchinson
& Co.
H u m a n P sy c h o lo g y . J. R. Butler and T. F. Karowski.
1937. London: Sir Isaac Pitman & Sons.
H y p n o tis t’s C ase B o o k , A . Alexander Erskine. 1932.
London: Rider & Co.
In v isib le In flu en ce, T h e. Alexander Cannon, M.D., M.A.,
Ph.D., Ch.B., etc., etc.
61
D E A D L Y MAGI C
Jungle Ways. W. B. Seabrook. 1931. London: G. G
Harrap.
Magic Island, The (Haiti). W. B. Seabrook. 1929.
London: G. G. Harrap. Strange home of superstition
and horror.
Man s Survival After Death. The Rev. C. L. Tweedale.
1920, 1925. Kegan Paul Trubner. Concordance of
modem super-normal phenomena with similar occur­
rences as related in Holy Scripture.
Mental Healers. / Stefan Zweig. 1933. London:
Cassel & Co.
Mystical Qabala, The. Dion Fortune. 1935. London:
Williams & Norgate.
Mystics and Magicians in Tibet, With. Alexandra David-
Neel. 1931-36. London: John Long.
f of Central Australia, The. S
ir
Native Tribes. 1899. J Baldwin Spenser, K.C.M.G.,
%
T #7 /ri •7 \ 1 > - y /~\ •t*
1 y 1
Northern Tribes. 1904. London:
and F. J. Gillan.
Macmillan & Co.
Peoples of Southern Nigeria, The. P. Amaury Talbot.
1926. Oxford: University Press.
Phenomena of Life, The. A radio-electric interpretation.
George Crile. 1936. London: William Heinemann &
Co. Twenty years research work on the nature o
f
"shock/
Powers That Be. Alexander Cannon, M.D., M.A., Ph.D.,
Ch.B., etc. 1934. The Francis Mott Co. Accounts o
f
magic in the Far East and super-normal occurrences
generally.
Primtiive Man. Caesare de Vesmy. 1931. London:
Rider & Co.
Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research.
Psychological Basis of Personality. Charles R. Stockard.
1931. London: George Allen & Unwin.
Psychic Certainties. Provost Battersby. 1930. London:
Rider & Co. Accounts of phenomena well authenti­
cated.
Recovering the Ancient Magic. Max Freedom Long.
1936. London: Rider & Co.
Sane Occultism. Dion Fortune. 1931. London:
Williams & Norgate. Spiritualism in the light of
occult science.
D E A D L Y M A G I C 63
Savage L ife in C en tral A u stralia. G. Home, V.D.,
M.A., M.D., Ch.B., and G. Aiston. 1924. London:
Macmillan & Co.
Science F ron t, T he. Gerald Heard. 1936. London:
Cassel & Co.
Science of Seersh ip . T he. Geoffrey Hodson. 1929.
Rider & Co. Clairvoyant research. Has a good
bibliography.
Search i n i $ ecrei In d ia . 1934. 1 Paul Brunton. London:
| Secret E g y p t. 1936.J Rider & Co.
Secret W isd o m of th e Q abala, T he. A study in Jewish
mystical thought. J. F. C. Fuller. 1937. London:
Rider & Co.
Super-norm al, T he. G. C. Barnard, M.Sc. 1933.
London: Rider & Co.
S u perph ysical, T he. A. W. Osborn. 1937. London:
Ivor Nicholson & Watson.
S u rv ey of the O ccult, A . Edited by Julian Franklyn.
1935. London. Arthur Barker. Has an extensive
bibliography.
T hreshold of the U nseen, O n th e. Sir W. F. Barrett.
1917, 1918. London: Kegan Paul Trubner.
T om tom s in th e N ig h t. Attilo Gatti. 1932. London:
Hutchinson & Co.
T orch of K n o w led g e, T he. Arthur Findlay. 1936. The
Psychic Press. Spiritualistic experiences conducted
under modem conditions. The genesis and develop­
ment of Christianity. Bibliograhy.
U n foldin g U n iverse, T h e. Arthur Findlay. 1935.
London: Rider & Co.
V oodoos a n d O beah s. The Rev. J. J. Williams, S.J.
1932. New York: Lincoln MacVeagh, the Dial Press.
West Indian magic.
W itch craft a m o n g th e A za n d a (Africa). E. E. Evans-
Pritchard, M.A. 1937. Oxford: The Clarendon Press.
See also Messrs. Rider & Co.’s list of books dealing
with unusual subjects. London: Paternoster House,
Paternoster Row, E.C.4.
Deadly Magic!
w c h b s o
CMS
l 2 3
W i r i L w j r f j i n r r j i i f ---------------------------------------------------
5 J
M M N M n M M p m M M M M M . . . . . . - —----------------------
£ 7 8 9 IO 11
COL. F. J. HAYTE8
