{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__fox___sermon_on_the_mount_and_lords_prayer.pdf","mytitle":"Sermon On The Mount And Lords Prayer","mylang":"de"}
The
Sermon on the Mount
A General Introduction to Scientific
Christianity in the Form of a
Spiritual Key to M.atthew
V.; V I and V II
by
EM M ET FOX
1817
H A R P E R & R O W , P U B L I S H E R S
New Yor\ and Evanston
TO
M Y S T U D E N T S
IN G R E A T B R IT A IN AN D A M E R I C A
W H O H A V E B E E N
T H E IN S P IR A T IO N AND E N C O U R A G E M E N T
B E H IN D T H IS BOOK
#
THE SERMON ON THE MOUNT
Copyright, ¡934, >935, >93&, by Emmet Fox
Printed in the United States of America
C O N T E N T S
#
C h a p t e r I. What Did Jesus Teach? i
II. The Beatitudes 18
III. As a Mm Thinketh 50
IV. Resist Not Evil 70
V . Treasure in Heaven 92
VI. With What MeasureYe Mete 117
VII. By Their Fruits 128
The Lord's Prayer 155
#
P R E F A C E
T
h is book is the distilled essence of years of Bible
and metaphysical study, and of the many lectures
I have delivered. It would have been easier to have made
it twice its present length. M y object, however, is to
present the reader with a practical manual of spiritual
development, and, with this end in view, I have con­
densed the subject matter into the smallest compass pos­
sible, because, as every student knows, conciseness of
expression is of the greatest assistance in mastering any
subject.
Do not imagine that you can assimilate all that it con­
tains in one or two readings. It should be gone over again
and again until you have thoroughly grasped the utterly
new outlook upon life and the absolutely fresh scale of
values which the Sermon on the Mount presents to man­
kind. Only then will you experience the New Birth.
The study of the Bible is not unlike the search for
diamonds in South Africa. A t first people found a few
diamonds in the yellow clay, and they were delighted
with their good fortune, even while they supposed that
this was to be the full extent of their find.
Then, upon digging deeper, they came upon the blue
clay, and, to their amazement, they then found as many
precious stones in a day as they had previously found in
a year, and what had formerly seemed like wealth faded
into insignificance beside the new riches.
vii
viii Preface
In your exploration of Bible Truth, see to it that you
do not rest satisfied in the yellow clay of a few spiritual
discoveries, but press on to the rich blue clay underneath.
The Bible, however, differs from the diamond field in
the sublime fact that beneath the blue clay there are
more and still more and richer strata, awaiting the touch
of spiritual perception—on and on to Infinity.
As you read the Bible, you should constantly affirm
that Divine Wisdom is enlightening you. That is the way
to get direct inspiration.
I have followed a convenient modern custom among
writers of metaphysical books in capitalizing certain
words that signify aspects or attributes of God.
Chapter I
W H A T DID JE SU S T EA C H ?
J
e s u s C h r is t is easily the most important figure that
has ever appeared in the history of mankind. It makes
no difference how you may regard him, you will
have to concede that. This is true whether you choose to
call him God or man; and, if man, whether you choose
to consider him as the world’s greatest Prophet and
Teacher, or merely as a well intentioned fanatic who
came to grief, and failure, and ruin, after a short and
stormy public career. However you regard him, the fact
will remain that the life and death of Jesus, and the teach­
ings attributed to him have influenced the course of hu­
man history more than those of any other man who has
ever lived; more than Alexander, or Caesar, or Charle­
magne, or Napoleon, or Washington. More people’s lives
are influenced by his doctrines, or at least by the doctrines
attributed to him today; more books are written and read
and bought concerning him; more speeches are made
(call them sermons) concerning him; than concerning all
the other names mentioned put together.
To have been the religious inspiration of the whole
European race throughout the two millenniums during
which that race has dominated and moulded the destinies
of the entire world, culturally and socially, as well as
politically, and through the period in which the whole
i
of the earth’s surface was finally discovered and occu­
pied, and in its broad outlines shaped by civilization; this
alone entitles him to the premier position in world im­
portance.
There can hardly, therefore, be a more important
undertaking than to inquire into the question of what
Jesus really did stand for.
What did Jesus teach? What did he really wish us to
believe and to do? What were the objects that he really
had at heart? And how far did he actually succeed in
accomplishing these objects in his life and in his death?
How far has the religion or movement called Chris­
tianity, as it has existed for the last nineteen centuries,
really expressed or represented his ideas? How far does
the Christianity of today present his message to the
world? If he should come back now, what would he say
of the self-styled Christian nations in general, and of the
Christian churches in particular—
of the Anglicans, the
Baptists, the Catholics, the Greek Orthodox, the Metho­
dists, the Presbyterians, the Quakers, the Salvationists,
the Seventh Day Adventists, or the Unitarians; to cite
them alphabetically? What did Jesus teach?
This is the question which I have set myself to answer
in this book. I propose to show that the message which
Jesus brought has a unique value because it is the Truth,
and the only perfect statement of the Truth of the na­
ture of God and of man, and of life, and of the world;
and of the relationships which exist between them. And
far more than this, we shall find that his teaching is not
a mere abstract account of the universe, which would be
of very little more than academic interest; but that it
2 The Sermon on the Mount
constitutes a practical method for the development of
the soul and for the shaping of our lives and destinies
into the things that we really wish them to be.
Jesus explains to us what the nature of God is, and
what our own nature is; tells us the meaning of life and
of death; shows us why we make mistakes; why we yield
to temptation; why we become sick, and impoverished,
and old; and, most important of all, he tells us how all
these evils may be overcome, and how we may bring
health, happiness, and true prosperity into our lives, and
into the lives of others, if they really wish for them, too.
The first thing that we have to realize is a fact of
fundamental importance, because it means breaking away
from all the ordinary prepossessions of orthodoxy. The
plain fact is that Jesus taught no theology whatever. His
teaching is entirely spiritual or metaphysical. Historical
Christianity, unfortunately, has largely concerned itself
with theological and doctrinal questions which, strange
to say, have no part whatever in the Gospel teaching.
It will startle many good people to learn that all the
doctrines and theologies of the churches are human in­
ventions built up by their authors out of their own men­
talities, and foisted upon the Bible from the outside; but
such is the case. There is absolutely no system of the­
ology or doctrine to be found in the Bible; it simply is
not there. W orthy people who felt the need of some in­
tellectual explanation of life, and also believed that the
Bible was a revelation of God to man, drew the natural
conclusion that the one must be within the other; and
then, more or less unconsciously, proceeded to manu­
facture the thing that they wished to find. They did not
What Did Jesus Teach? 3
The Sermon on the Mount
*
have the spiritual or metaphysical key. They were not
upon what is called the Spiritual Basis, and consequently
they sought a purely intellectual or three-dimensional
explanation of life—and there can be no such ex­
planation.
The actual explanation of man’s life lies in just the
fact that he is essentially spiritual and eternal, and that
this world, and the life that we know intellectually, is,
so to speak, but a cross-section of the full truth concern­
ing him; and a cross-section of anything—
from a machine
to a horse—
never can furnish even a partial explanation
of the whole.
Glimpsing one tiny corner of the universe, and that
with only half-opened eyes, and working from an ex­
clusively anthropocentric and geocentric point of view,
men built up absurd and very horrible fables about a
limited and man-like God who conducted his universe
very much as a rather ignorant and barbarous prince
might conduct the affairs of a small Oriental kingdom.
All sorts of human weaknesses, such as vanity, fickle­
ness, and spite, were attributed to this being. Then a
far-fetched and very inconsistent legend was built up
concerning original sin, vicarious blood atonement, in­
finite punishment for finite transgressions; and, in certain
cases, an unutterably horrible doctrine of predestination
to eternal torment, or eternal bliss, was added. Now, no
such theory as this is taught in the Bible. If it were the
object of the Bible to teach it, it would be clearly stated
in a straight-forward manner in some chapter or other;
but it is not.
The “Plan of Salvation” which figured so prominently
in the evangelical sermons and divinity books of a past
generation is as completely unknown to the Bible as it
is to the Koran. There never was any such arrangement
in the universe, and the Bible does not teach it at all.
What has happened is that certain obscure texts from
Genesis, a few phrases taken here and there from Paul’s
letters, and one or two isolated verses from other parts of
the Scriptures, have been taken out and pieced together
by divines, to produce the kind of teaching which it
seemed to them ought to have been found in the Bible.
Jesus knows nothing of all this. He is indeed anything but
a Pollyanna, as they say, or cheap optimist. He warns
us, not once but often, that obstinacy in sin can bring
very, very severe punishment in its train, and that a man
who parts with the integrity of his soul—
even though he
gain the whole world—
is a tragic fool. But he teaches
that we are only punished for—and actually punished by
—our own mistakes; and he teaches that every man or
woman, no matter how steeped in evil and uncleanness,
has always direct access to an all-loving, all-powerful
Father-God, who will forgive him, and supply His own
strength to him to enable him to find himself again; and
unto seventy times seven, if need be.
Jesus has been sadly misunderstood and misrepresented
in other directions too. For instance, there is no warrant
whatever in his teaching for the setting up of any form
of Ecclesiasticism, of any hierarchy of officials or system
of ritual. He did not authorize any such thing, and, in
fact, the whole tone of his mentality is definitely anti-
ecclesiastical. All through his public life he was at war
with the ecclesiastics and other religious officials of his
What Did Jesus Teach? 5
6 The Sermon on the Mount
own country. They first hindered, and then persecuted
him, with a perfectly sound instinct of self-preservation
—they felt instinctively that the Truth, as he taught it,
was the beginning of the end for them—and they finally
had him put to death. Their pretensions to authority as
the representatives of God, he ignored completely; and
for their ritual and their ceremonies he evinced only im­
patience and contempt.
It seems that human nature is very prone to believe
what it wants to believe, rather than to incur the labor
of really searching the Scriptures with an open mind.
Perfectly sincere men, for example, have appointed them­
selves Christian leaders, with the most imposing and
pretentious titles, and then clothed themselves in elabo­
rate and gorgeous vestments the better to impress the
people, in spite of the fact that their Master, in the plain­
est language, strictly charged his followers that they
must do nothing of the kind. “But be ye not called Rabbi:
for one is your master, even Christ; and all ye are breth­
ren” {Matt. 23:8). And he denounced the Pharisees as
hypocrites because “they love the chief seats,” and “ bind
heavy burdens, grievous to be borne,” with all sorts of
rules and regulations.
Jesus, as we shall discover later on, made a special point
of discouraging the laying of emphasis upon outer ob­
servances; and, indeed, upon hard and fast rules and regu­
lations of every kind. What he insisted upon was a cer­
tain spirit in one’s conduct, and he was careful to teach
principles only, knowing that when the spirit is right,
details will take care of themselves; and that, in fact, “the
letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life,” as was so obvi­
ously seen in the sad example of the Pharisees. Yet, in
spite of this, the history of orthodox Christianity is
largely made up of attempts to enforce all sorts of ex­
ternal observances upon the people. A striking case in
illustration of this is the Puritan attempt to enforce the
Old Testament Sabbath upon Christians, although the
Sabbath law was a purely Hebrew ordinance, and the
ferocious penalties involved in neglecting it applied ex­
clusively to the desecration of Saturday; and in spite
of the fact that Jesus particularly discouraged super­
stitious Sabbath observance, saying that the Sabbath was
made for man and not man for the Sabbath, and making
a point of doing anything that he wanted to do upon that
day. He clearly indicates throughout his teaching that
the time has come when man must make each and every
day a spiritual Sabbath by knowing and doing all things
in a spiritual light.
It is obvious that even if the Hebrew Sabbath were
binding upon Christians, then, since they do not observe
it in keeping Sunday, they will still incur all the conse­
quences of Sabbath breaking.
Many modem Christians do, however, realize that
there is no system of theology in the Bible unless one
likes to put it there deliberately, and they have practi­
cally given up theology altogether; but they still cling
to Christianity because they feel intuitively that it is
the Truth. There is really no logical justification for
their attitude, since they do not possess the Spiritual
Key which alone makes the teaching of Jesus intel­
ligible, and so they endeavor to rationalize their attitude
in various ways. This is the dilemma of the man who
What Did Jesus Teach? 7
8 The Sermon on the Mount
has neither the blind faith of orthodoxy nor the spir­
itual interpretation of Scientific Christianity to support
him. He has not a leg to stand on that does not belong
to the old-fashioned Unitarian. If he does not reject
miracles altogether, he is at least very uneasy about
them. They embarrass him, and he wishes they were
not in the Bible at all, and would be glad in his heart
to be well rid of them.
A “Life of Jesus” recently published by a well known
clergyman clearly illustrates how false this position is.
In his book he concedes that Jesus may have healed
some people, or helped them to heal themselves; but
he draws the line there. He explains away into nothing­
ness all the other miracles. They were the usual fan­
tastic legends that center about all great historical
figures, he thinks. On the lake, for instance, the dis­
ciples were thoroughly frightened, until they thought
of Jesus, and the thought of him calmed their fears. This
was subsequently exaggerated into an absurd tale that
he had come to them in person walking upon the water.
Another time, it appears, he reformed a sinner, raising
him out of a grave of sin, and this was expanded, years
and years afterwards, into a ridiculous legend that he
had really revived a dead man. Again, Jesus prayed fer­
vently one night, so that he looked most radiantly happy,
and Peter, who had fallen asleep, woke up with a start;
and years afterwards he told some confused story about
believing that he saw Moses there—
so much for the
Transfiguration. And so forth. And so forth.
Now, one must extend every sympathy to the special
pleadings of a man enthralled by the beauty and mys­
tery of the Gospels, but who, in the absence of the
Spiritual Key, seems to find his common sense and
all the scientific knowledge of mankind flouted by much
that these Gospels contain. But this simply will not
do. If the miracles did not happen, the rest of the Gospel
story loses all real significance. If Jesus did not believe
them to be possible, and undertake to perform them—
never, it is true, for the sake of display, but still con­
stantly and repeatedly—if he did not believe and teach
many things in flat contradiction to eighteenth and
nineteenth century rationalistic philosophy, then the
Gospel message is chaotic, contradictory, and devoid
of all significance. W e cannot ride away from this
dilemma by saying that Jesus was not interested in the
current beliefs and superstitions of his time; that he took
them more or less for granted passively; because what
really interested him was character. This is a feeble
argument, because character must include both an in­
telligent and a vital all-round reaction to life. Character
must include some definite beliefs and convictions con­
cerning things that really matter.
But the miracles did happen. All the deeds related
of Jesus in the four Gospels did happen, and many
others too, “the which, if they should be written, every
one, I suppose that even the world itself could not
contain the books that should be written.” Jesus him­
self justified what people thought to be a strange and
wonderful teaching by the works he was able to do;
and he went further and said, referring to those who
study and practise his teaching: “The works that I do,
ye shall do. and greater works.”
What Did Jesus Teach? 9
Now what, after all, is a miracle? Those who deny
the possibility of miracles on the ground that the uni­
verse is a perfect system of law and order, to the opera­
tion of which there can be no exceptions, are perfectly
right. But the explanation is that the world of which we
are normally aware, and with whose laws alone most peo­
ple are acquainted, is only a fragment of the whole uni­
verse as it really is; and that there is such a thing as
appealing from a lower to a higher law—
from a lesser
to a greater expression. Now the appeal from the lower
to the higher law is not really a breach of law, for the
possibility of such an appeal is part of the major con­
stitution of the universe, and, therefore, in the sense
of a real breach of law, miracles are impossible. Yet, in
the sense that all the ordinary rules and limitations ol
the physical plane can be set aside or over-ridden by an
understanding which has risen above them, miracles, in
the colloquial sense of the word, can and do happen.
Let us suppose, for the sake of example, that on a
certain Monday, your affairs are in such a condition
that, humanly speaking, certain consequences are sure
to follow before the end of the week. These may be
legal consequences, perhaps of a very unpleasant nature
following upon some decision of the courts; or they
may be certain physical consequences in the human
body. A competent physician may decide that a per­
ilous operation will be absolutely necessary, or he may
even feel it his duty to say that there is no chance for
the recovery of the patient. Now, if someone can raise
his consciousness above the limitations of the physi­
cal plane in connection with the matter—and this is
io The Sermon on the Mount
I I
only a scientific description of what is commonly called
prayer—
then the conditions on that plane will change,
and, in some utterly unforeseen and normally impossible
manner, the legal tragedy will melt away, and to the
advantage, be it noted, of all parties to the case; or the
patient will be healed instead of having to undergo the
operation, or of having to die.
In other words, miracles, in the popular sense of
the word, can and do happen as the result of prayer.
Prayer does change things. Prayer does make things
to happen quite otherwise than they would have hap­
pened had the prayer not been made. It makes no
difference at all what sort of difficulty you may be in.
It does not matter what the causes may have been that
led up to it. Enough prayer will get you out of your
difficulty if only you will be persistent enough in your
appeal to God.
Prayer, however, is both a science and an art; and
it was to the teaching of this science and this art that
Jesus devoted the greater part of his ministry. The
Gospel miracles happened because Jesus had the spir­
itual understanding that gave him greater power in
prayer than anyone else before or since.
One other attempt to interpret the Gospels must be
taken into consideration. Tolstoy endeavored to put
forward the Sermon on the Mount as a practical guide
to life, taking its precepts literally, at their face value,
and ignoring the spiritual interpretation of which he
was unaware, and excluding the Plane of Spirit in which
he did not believe. Discarding the whole of the Bible
except the four Gospels, and discounting all miracles,
What Did Jesus Teach?
he made a heroic but futile attempt to combine Chris­
tianity and materialism; and, of course, he failed. His
real place in history turns out to be not that of the
founder of a new religious movement, but that of the
man whose practical anarchism, promulgated with all the
fire of genius, paved the way for the Bolshevik Revolu­
tion, even as Rousseau had cleared the road for the
French Revolution.
It is the Spiritual Key that unlocks the mystery of
the Bible teaching in general, and of the Gospels in
particular. It is the Spiritual K ey that explains the
miracles and shows that they were performed in order
to prove to us that we too can perform miracles, and
thereby overcome sin, sickness, and limitation. With
this key we can afford to discard verbal inspiration
and all superstitious literalism, and yet understand that
the Bible really is the most precious and most authentic
of all man’s possessions.
Externally, the Bible is a collection of inspired docu­
ments written by men of all kinds, in all sorts of cir­
cumstances, and over hundreds of years of time. The
documents, as we have them, are seldom originals, but
redactions and compilations of older fragments; and
the names of the actual writers are seldom known for
certain. This, however, does not affect the spiritual
purpose of the Bible in the slightest degree; it is in fact
quite immaterial. The book, as we have it, is an inex­
haustible reservoir of Spiritual Truth, compiled under
Divine inspiration, and the actual route by which it
reached its present form does not matter. The name of
the writer of any particular chapter is really of no more
12 The Sermon on the Mount
importance than would be the name of his amanuensis,
if he employed one. Divine Wisdom is the author; and
that is all that concerns us. What is called the Higher
Criticism concerns itself exclusively with externals, com­
pletely missing the spiritual content of the Scriptures,
and from the spiritual point of view is of no importance.
History, biography, lyrical and other poetic forms
are various mediums through which the spiritual mes­
sage is given in the Bible; and, above all, the parable
is used to convey spiritual and metaphysical truth. In
some cases, what was never intended to be more than
a parable was, at one time, taken for literal statement
of fact; and this often made the Bible seem to teach
things which are opposed to common sense. The story
of Adam and Eve and the Garden of Eden is a case
in point. Rightly understood, this is perhaps the most
wonderful parable of all; it was never intended by its
author to be taken for history, but literal-minded peo­
ple did so take it, with all sorts of absurd consequences.
The Spiritual Key to the Bible rescues us from all
these difficulties, dilemmas, and seeming inconsistencies.
It saves us from the false positions of Ritualism, Evan­
gelicalism, and what is called Liberalism alike, because
it gives us the Truth. And the Truth turns out to be
nothing less than the amazing but undeniable fact that
the whole, outer world—
whether it be the physical body,
the common things of life, the winds and the rain,
the clouds, the earth itself—
is amenable to man’s thought,
and that he has dominion over it when he knows it. The
outer world, far from being the prison of circumstances
that it is commonly supposed to be, has actually nc
What Did Jems Teach? 13
The Sermon on the Mount
*4
character whatsoever of its own, either good or bad.
It has only the character that we give to it by our own
thinking. It is naturally plastic to our thought, and this is
so, whether we know it or not, and whether we wish it
or not.
All day long the thoughts that occupy your mind,
your Secret Place, as Jesus calls it, are moulding your
destiny for good or evil; in fact, the truth is that the
whole of your life’s experience is but the outer expres­
sion of inner thought.
N ow we can choose the sort of thoughts that we
entertain. It will be a little difficult to break a bad habit
of thought, but it can be done. We can choose how we
shall think—
in point of fact, we always do choose—
and therefore our lives are just the result of the kind
of thoughts we have chosen to hold; and therefore
they are of our own ordering; and therefore there is
perfect justice in the universe. No suffering for another
man’s original sin, but the reaping of a harvest that
we ourselves have sown. We have free will, but our free
will lies in our choice of thought.
This is in essence what Jesus taught. It is, as we shall
see, the underlying message of the whole Bible; but
it is not expressed with equal clearness throughout. In
the earlier portion of the book it shines through but
dimly on the whole, as the light from a heavily shrouded
lamp; but, as time goes on, veil after veil is removed,
and the light shines ever stronger and stronger, until,
in the teaching of Jesus Christ, it pours forth clear and
unimpeded. Truth never changes, but what we have to
deal with on this plane is man’s apprehension of the
Truth, and, throughout historical time, this has been
steadily and continuously improving. In fact, what we
call progress is but the outer expression corresponding
to mankind’s continuously improving idea of God.
Jesus Christ summed up this Truth, taught it com­
pletely and thoroughly, and, above all, demonstrated
it in his own person. Most of us now can glimpse in­
tellectually the idea of what it must mean in its full­
ness, and much that must inevitably follow from a
competent understanding of it. But what we can dem­
onstrate is a very different matter. T o accept the Truth
is the great first step, but not until we have proved it
in doing is it ours. Jesus proved everything that he
taught, even to the overcoming of death in what we
call the Resurrection. For reasons which I cannot dis­
cuss here it happens that every time you overcome a
difficulty by prayer, you help the whole of the human
race, past, present, and future, in a general way; and you
help it to overcome that special kind of difficulty in
particular. Jesus, by surmounting every sort of limita­
tion to which mankind is subject, and in particular by
overcoming death, performed a work of unique and
incalculable value to the race, and is therefore justly
entitled the Saviour of the world.
A t what he deemed an opportune moment in his
public ministry, he decided to sum up the whole teach­
ing in a series of lectures extending probably over sev­
eral days, and speaking probably two or three times a
day. This arrangement has been compared by someone,
and not inaptly, to a kind of summer school, as we haw
such things today.
What Did Jesus Teach? 15
He took this opportunity to summarize the message.,
to dot the i’s and cross the t’s, so to say. A number
of those present naturally took notes, and, later on,
these notes were edited into what we know as the Ser­
mon on the Mount. The authors of the four Gospels
each selected the material for his monograph in ac­
cordance with his own purpose; and it is Matthew who
gives us the most complete and carefully arranged ver­
sion of the address. His setting forth of the Sermon on
the Mount is an almost perfect codification of the Jesus
Christ religion, and I have therefore chosen it as the
text for this book. It covers the essentials. It is practical
and personal. It is definite, specific, and yet widely il­
luminating. Once the true meaning of the instructions
has been grasped, it is only necessary to begin putting
them faithfully into practice to get immediate results.
The magnitude and extent of these results will depend
solely upon the sincerity and thoroughness with which
they are applied. That is a matter which each individual
has to settle for himself. “No man can save his brother’s
soul, or pay his brother’s debt.” W e can and should
help one another on special occasions, but in the long
run each must learn to do his own work, and “sin” no
more, lest a worse thing befall him.
If you really do wish to alter your life, if you really
do wish to change yourself—
to become a different per­
son altogether in the sight of God and man—
if you
really do want health and peace of mind, and spiritual
development, then Jesus, in his Sermon on the Mount,
has clearly shown you how it is to be done. The task
is not an easy one, but we know that it can be accom­
16 The Sermon on the Mount
plished, because there are those who have done it—
but the price must be paid, and the price is, the actual
carrying out of these principles in every comer of your
life, and in every daily transaction, whether you wish
to or not, and more particularly where you would much
rather not.
If you are prepared to pay that price, to break really
and truly with the old man, and start upon the creation
of the new one, then the study of the great Sermon
will indeed be to you the Mountain of Liberation.
What Did Jesus Teach? 17
Chapter 11
T H E B E A T IT U D E S
And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain;
and when he was set, his disciples came unto him:
And he opened his mouth, and taught them, saying,
Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of
heaven.
Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.
Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.
Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteous­
ness: for they shall be filled.
Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.
Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.
Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the
children of God.
Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness’
sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute
you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for
my sake.
Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in
heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were
before you.
(Matthew V)
T
h e Sermon on the Mount opens with the Eight
Beatitudes. This, of course, is one of the best known
sections of the Bible. Even people whose knowledge
of the Scriptures is confined to half a dozen of the most
familiar chapters are sure to know the Beatitudes. They
18
The Beatitudes
hardly ever understand them, unfortunately, and as a
rule look upon them as a counsel of perfection, with­
out any real application to everyday life. But this is
only because they lack the Spiritual Key.
The Beatitudes are actually a prose poem in eight
verses which is complete in itself, and it constitutes what
is practically a general summary of the whole Christian
teaching. It is a spiritual, more than a literary synopsis,
summarizing the spirit of the teaching rather than the
letter. A general summing up, such as this, is highly
characteristic of the old Oriental mode of approach to
a religious and philosophical teaching, and it naturally
recalls the Eight-fold Path of Buddhism, the Ten Com­
mandments of Moses, and other such compact groupings
of ideas.
Jesus concerned himself exclusively with the teach­
ing of general principles, and these general principles
always had to do with mental states, for he knew that
if one’s mental states are right, everything else must
be right too, whereas, if these are wrong, nothing else
can be right. Unlike the other great religious teachers,
he gives us no detailed instructions about what we are
to do or are not to do; he does not tell us either to eat
or to drink, or to refrain from eating or drinking certain
things; or to carry out various ritual observances at
certain times and seasons. Indeed, the whole current of
his teaching is anti-ritualistic, anti-formalist. He had
little patience at any time with the Jewish priesthood
and its theory of salvation through the Temple ob­
servances. “The hour cometh when ye shall neither in
this mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem, worship the Father.
*9
. . . The hour cometh and now is when the true wor
shipper shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth;
for the Father seeketh such to worship him. God is
spirit and they that worship him must worship Him in
spirit and in truth.”
The Pharisees, with their appalling code of outward
detailed observances, were the only people towards
whom he was really intolerant. A conscientious Pharisee
of those days—and most of them were extremely con­
scientious, according to their lights—
had an enormous
number of outer details to attend to every day before
he could feel that he had satisfied the requirements of
God. A modem rabbi has estimated the number of such
details at not less than six hundred, and as it is obvious
that no human being could really carry out this sort
of thing in practice, the natural result would be that
the victim, conscious of falling far short of the accom­
plishment of his duties, must necessarily labor under a
chronic sense of sin. Now, to believe yourself to be
sinful is, for practical purposes, to be sinful, with all
the consequences that follow upon that condition. The
policy of Jesus contrasts with this in that his object
is rather to wean the heart from relying upon outer
things at all, either for pleasurable gratification or for
spiritual salvation, and to inculcate a new attitude of
mind altogether; and this policy is graphically set forth
in the Beatitudes.
Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the King­
dom of Heaven.
Here, in the very beginning, we have to take into
account a point of great practical importance in the
20 The Sermon on the Mount
The Beatitudes 21
study or the Bible, namely, that it is written in a peculiar
idiom of its own, and that terms and expressions, and
sometimes actual words, are used in the Bible in a sense
that is distinctly different from that of everyday usage.
This is quite apart from the fact, for which we have
also to be on the lookout, that certain English words
have changed in meaning since the Bible was translated.
The Bible is really a textbook of metaphysics, a
manual for the growth of the soul, and it looks at all
questions from this point of view. It is impossible to
emphasize this point too much. For this reason it takes
the broadest view of every subject. It sees all things
in their relationship to the human soul, and it uses many
common terms in a far wider sense than that given to
them by common use. For example, the word “ bread”
in the Bible means, not merely any kind of physical
food, which is the broadest interpretation that is put
upon it in general literature, but all things that man re­
quires—
all physical things, such as clothing, shelter,
money, education, companionship, and so forth; and,
above all, it stands for spiritual things such as spiritual
perception, spiritual understanding, and preeminently
spiritual realization. “ Give us this day our daily bread.”
“ I am the bread of life.” “ Unless ye eat this bread. . . .”
Another example is the word “prosperity.” In the
scriptural sense, “prosperity,” and “ prosper,” signify
a very great deal more than the acquirement of material
possessions. They really mean success in prayer. From
the point of view of the soul, success in prayer is the
only kind of prosperity worth having; and if our prayers
are successful, we shall naturally have all the material
things that we need. A certain quantity of material goods
is essential on this plane, of course; but material wealth
is really the least important thing in life, and this the
Bible implies by giving the word “prosperous” its true
meaning.
To be poor in spirit does not in the least mean the
thing we call “poor spirited” nowadays. To be poor in
spirit means to have emptied yourself of all desire to
exercise personal self-will, and, what is just as impor­
tant, to have renounced all preconceived opinions in
the whole-hearted search for God. It means to be
willing to set aside your present habits of thought, youi
present views and prejudices, your present way of life
if necessary; to jettison, in fact, anything and everything
that can stand in the way of your finding God.
One of the saddest passages in all literature is the
story of the Rich Young Man who missed one of the
great opportunities of history, and “ turned away sor­
rowful because he had great possessions.” This is really
the story of mankind in general. W e reject the salvation
that Jesus offers us—our chance of finding God—
because
we “have great possessions” ; not in the least because
we are very rich in terms of money, for indeed most
people are not, but because we have great possessions in
the way of preconceived ideas—confidence in our own
judgment, and in the ideas with which we happen to be
familiar; spiritual pride, born of academic distinction;
sentimental or material attachment to institutions and
organizations; habits of life that we have no desire to
renounce; concern for human respect, or perhaps fear
of public ridicule; or a vested interest in worldly honor
22 The Sermon on the Mount
The Beatitudes
and distinction. And these possessions keep us chained
to the rock of suffering that is our exile from God.
The Rich Young Man is one of the most tragic fig­
ures in history; not because he happened to be wealthy,
for wealth in itself is neither good nor bad, but because
his heart was enslaved by that love of money which
Paul tells us is the root of all evil. He could have been
a multimillionaire in silver and gold, and, as long as his
heart was not set upon it, he would have been just as
free as the poorest beggar to enter the Kingdom of
Heaven. His trust, however, was in his riches, and this
shut the gate.
W hy was not the Christ Message received with ac­
claim by the Ecclesiastics of Jerusalem? Because they
had great possessions—possessions of Rabbinical learning,
possessions of public honor and importance, authorita­
tive offices as the official teachers of religion—
and these
possessions they would have had to sacrifice in order to
accept the spiritual teaching. The humble and unlearned
folk who heard the Master gladly were happy in having
no such possessions to tempt them away from the Truth.
W hy was it that in modern times when the same
simple Christ Message of the immanence and availability
of God, and of the Inner Light that bums forever in
the soul of man, once more made its appearance in the
world, it was again, for the most part, among the simple
and unlettered that it was gladly received? W hy was
it not the Bishops, and Deans, and Moderators, and
Ministers, and Presbyteries, who gave it to the world?
W hy was not Oxford, or Cambridge, or Harvard, or
2 3
Heidelberg, the great broadcasting center for this most
important of all knowledge? And, again the answer is
—because they had great possessions—great possessions
of intellectual and spiritual pride, great possessions of
self-satisfaction and cock-sureness, great possessions of
academic commitment, and of social prestige.
The poor in spirit suffer from none of these embar­
rassments, either because they never had them, or
because they have risen above them on the tide of spir­
itual understanding. They have got rid of the love of
money and property, of fear of public opinion, and
of the disapproval of relatives or friends. They are
no longer overawed by human authority, however
august. They are no longer cock-sure in their own
opinions. They have come to see that their most cher­
ished beliefs may have been and probably were mis­
taken, and that all their ideas and views of life may
be false and in need of recasting. They are ready to
start again at the very beginning and learn life anew.
Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be com­
forted.
Mourning or sorrow is not in itself a good thing,
for the Will of God is that everyone should experience
happiness and joyous success. Jesus says: “ I am come
that they might have life, and that they might have it
more abundantly.” Nevertheless, trouble and suffering
are often extremely useful, because many people will
not bother to learn the Truth until driven to do so by
sorrow and failure. Sorrow then becomes relatively a
24 The Sermon on the Mount
The Beatitudes
good thing. Sooner or later every human being will
have to discover the Truth about God, and make his
own contact with Him at first hand. He will have to
acquire the understanding of Truth, which will set him
free, once and for all, from our three-dimensional limi­
tations and their concomitants—
sin, sickness, and death.
But most people will not undertake the search for God
whole-heartedly unless driven thereto by trouble of
some kind. There is really no need for man to have
trouble, because if he will only seek God first, the trouble
need never come. He always has the choice of learning
by spiritual unfoldment or of learning by painful ex­
perience, and it is his own fault if he makes the latter
choice.
As a rule, it is only when health is broken down,
and ordinary medical means have failed to afford re­
lief, that people seriously set about gaining that spiritual
understanding of the body as the true embodiment of
Divine Life that is our only guarantee of overcoming
sickness and, ultimately, death. Yet, if people would
turn to God and acquire something of this understand­
ing while their health is still good, they need never be
sick at all.
Again, it is usually only when people are feeling the
pinch of poverty very acutely, that is, when ordinary
material sources of supply have dried up, that they
turn to God as a last resort and learn the lesson that
the Divine Power really is the Source of man’s supply,
and all material agents but the channels.
N ow this lesson has to be learned and thoroughly
25
realized before man can pass on to any experience
higher or wider than the present one. In our Father’s
House are many mansions, but the key to higher man­
sions is always the acquiring of complete dominion over
the one in which we are. It is therefore a very blessed
thing for us that we should be compelled to get right
on the supply question at the earliest possible moment.
If prosperous people will now, while they are still pros­
perous, acknowledge God as their true Source, and
pray regularly for still more spiritual understanding on
this point, they need never suffer poverty or financial
trouble at all. At the same time, they must be careful
to use their present resources well, not hoarding riches
selfishly but recognizing that God is the owner, and
that they are only the stewards or trustees for Him.
The command of money involves a responsibility which
you cannot evade. You must dispense it wisely, or take
the consequences.
This general principle applies to every one of our
difficulties, not merely physical or financial troubles,
but all the other ills to which flesh is heir. Family
troubles, quarrels and estrangements, sin and remorse,
and all the rest, need never come at all if we will seek
first the Kingdom of God and Right Understanding;
but if we will not do so, then come they must, and for
us this mourning will be a blessing in disguise, for
through it we shall be “ comforted.” And by comfort
the Bible means the experience of the Presence of God.
which is the end of all mourning.
The orthodox churches have too often taught a
16 The Sermon on the Mount
The Beatitudes 27
crucified Christ finishing on the cross; but the Bible
gives us the Risen Christ Triumphant.
Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.
On the surface, this Beatitude seems to have very
little meaning, and what there is seems to be obviously
contradicted by the plain facts of everyday life. No
sensible person on looking about the world or studying
history could sincerely accept this saying at its face
value, and most honest Christians have passed it by in
practice with a regretful feeling that no doubt that is
how things ought to be, but that they certainly are not
so in fact.
But this attitude will not do. Sooner or later the soul
reaches a point where evasions and sophistries have to be
discarded once and for all, and the facts of life faced
squarely at whatever cost.
Now, either Jesus meant what he said, or he did not;
and either he knew what he was talking about, or he
did not. And so, if this saying is not to be taken se­
riously, we are driven to the position which no Chris­
tian will care to accept—either that Jesus was saying
what he did not really believe, as unscrupulous people
do, or that he was talking nonsense. W e have to face
up to this situation at the very beginning of our study
of this Sermon on the Mount. Either Jesus is to be
taken seriously, or he is not to be taken seriously, in
which case his teaching should be dropped altogether
and people should cease to call themselves Christians.
T o pay lip service to his name, to say that Christianity
is the divinely inspired Truth, to boast of being Chris­
28 The Sermon on the Mount
tians, and then quietly to evade in practice all the defi­
nite implications of his teaching, is hypocrisy and
weakness of the most utterly fatal kind. Either Jesus is
a reliable guide, or he is not. If he is to be relied upon,
then let us pay him the compliment of assuming that he
meant what he said, and that he knew best about the art
of living. The trouble and sorrow that humanity suffers
are really due to the very fact that our mode of life
is so opposed to the Truth, that the things that he taught
and the things that he said seem to us at first sight to be
foolish and wild.
The fact is that when correctly understood, the
teaching of Jesus is found to be not only true but ex­
ceedingly practicable; indeed it is the most practicable
of all doctrines. W e find then that he was no sentimental
dreamer, no mere dealer in empty platitudes, but the un­
flinching realist that only a great mystic can be; and the
whole essence of his teaching and of its practical appli­
cation is summed up in this text.
This Beatitude is among the half dozen most import­
ant verses in the Bible. When you possess the spiritual
meaning of this text you have the Secret of Dominion—
the secret of overcoming every kind of difficulty. It is
literally the K ey of Life. It is the Jesus Christ Message
reduced to a single sentence. This gnomic saying is
actually the Philosopher’s Stone of the Alchemists that
turns the base metal of limitation and trouble into the
gold of “ comfort” or true harmony.
W e notice that there are two polar words in the text—
“meek” and “ earth.” They are both used in a special
and highly technical sense, and they have to be unveiled
The Beatitudes
before the wonderful meaning that underlies them can
be found. First of all, the word “earth” in the Bible does
not mean merely this terrestrial globe. It really means
manifestation. Manifestation or expression is the result of
a cause. A cause has to be expressed or manifested
before we can know anything about it; and, contrari­
wise, every expression or manifestation has to have a
cause. N ow you learn in Divine Metaphysics, and par­
ticularly in the Sermon on the Mount, that all causation
is mental, and that your body and all your affairs—
your
home, your business, all your experience—are but the
manifestation of your own mental states. The fact that
you are quite unconscious of most of your mental states
does not signify; because they are there, nevertheless,
in your subconscious mind, notwithstanding the fact
that you have now forgotten them, or never were aware
of them at all.
In other words, your “earth” means the whole of
your outer experience, and to “inherit the earth” means
to have dominion over that outer experience; that is to
say, to have power to bring your conditions of life into
harmony and true success. “All the earth shall be filled
with the glory of the Lord.” “ His soul shall dwell at ease,
and His seed (prayers) shall inherit the earth.” “The Lord
reigneth, let the earth rejoice.” So we see that when the
Bible talks about the earth: possessing the earth, govern­
ing the earth, making the earth glorious, and so forth, it is
referring to the conditions of our lives, from our
bodily health outwards to the farthest point in our
affairs. So this text undertakes to tell us how we may
29
possess, or govern, or be masters of our own lives ana
destinies.
Now let us see how it is to be done. The Beatitude
says that dominion, that is, power over the conditions
of our lives, is to be obtained in a certain way, and in
the most unexpected of all ways—
by nothing less than
meekness. The fact is, however, that this word “ meek­
ness” also is used in a special and technical sense. Its true
significance has nothing in common with the meaning it
now bears in modem English. Actually, there are few
more unpleasant qualities in human nature than the one
that is nowadays denoted by the word “meekness.” T o
a modern reader, the “meek” suggests a mean spirited
creature, devoid alike of courage and self respect, of no
use to himself or anyone else, crawling over the face
of the earth like a worm, and probably hypocritical
and mean as well. It suggests Dickens’s fawning Uriah
Heep at worst, and one of the same author’s down­
trodden, broken-spirited moral wrecks at best. But
Dickens always holds such characters up for warning
or ridicule, and never for emulation. The modern reader,
with these connotations of the word in mind, comes to
the Sermon on the Mount and rejects the teaching that
it gives because, here on the threshold, he is told that do­
minion is for the meek; and this doctrine he cannot
accept.
The true significance of the word “meek” in the
Bible is a mental attitude for which there is no other
single word available, and it is this mental attitude
which is the secret of “ prosperity” or success in prayer.
It is a combination of open-mindedness, faith in God.
30 The Sermon on the Mount
The Beatitudes
and the realization that the W ill of God for us is always
something joyous and interesting and vital, and much
better than anything we could think of for ourselves.
This state of mind also includes a perfect willingness to
allow this Will of God to come about in whatever way
Divine Wisdom considers to be best, rather than in some
particular way that we have chosen for ourselves.
This mental attitude, complex in analysis but simple
in itself, is the Key to Dominion, or success in demon­
stration. There is no one word for it in common speech,
because the thing does not exist except for those who
are upon the Spiritual Basis of the Jesus Christ teaching;
but if we desire to inherit the earth we must absolutely
acquire this “meekness.”
Moses, who had such extraordinary success in prayer—
he overcame the old age belief to the extent of manifest­
ing the physical body of a young man in the prime of
life, when, according to the calendar, he was one hun­
dred and twenty years old, and then transcended
matter altogether, or, “ dematerialized” without dying—
was known preeminently for this quality—“ as meek as
Moses.” Moses, we remember, apart from his own per­
sonal demonstration, did a marvelous work for his
whole nation, getting it out of Egyptian bondage in the
face of incredible difficulties (for the successful Exodus
was the “ demonstration” of Moses and a few advanced
souls who were helping him) and influencing the whole
subsequent course of history by his teaching and his
deeds. Moses had an open mind, ready to be taught new
things and new ways of thinking and working. He
did not reiect fresh revelation because it was novel and
3i
revolutionary, as most of his self-satisfied colleagues in
the Egyptian Hierarchy would have done. He was not,
in the beginning at least, free from serious faults of
character, but he was too big for intellectual or spiritual
pride, and therefore he gradually rose above these de­
fects as the new truth worked in his soul.
Moses thoroughly understood that to conform oneself
rigorously to the W ill of God, far from involving the
loss of any good, could only mean a finer and better
and more splendid life. He did not, therefore, think
of it as self-sacrifice, for he knew it to be the highest
form of self-glorification in the true and wonderful sense
of the word. The self-glorification of the egotist is the
mean vanity that leads at last to humiliation. True self-
glorification, the glorification that is really glorious, is
the glorification of God—“The Father in me, He doeth
the works.” “I in Thee, and Thou in Me.” Moses had
a wonderful understanding of the power of the spoken
Word to call forth good, which is scientific faith. He
was one of the “meekest” men who ever lived, and no
one, excepting our Saviour, has inherited the earth to a
greater degree.
There is a marvelous Oriental saying that “Meekness
compels God Himself.”
Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after
righteousness: for they shall be filled.
“Righteousness” is another of the great K ey Words
of the Bible, one of those keys that the reader must
have in his possession if he is to get at the true meaning
32 The Sermon on the Mount
The Beatitudes
of the book. Like “ earth” and “meek” and “ comfort,”
it is a technical term used in a special and definite sense.
Righteousness means, in the Bible, not merely right
conduct, but right thinking on all subjects, in every
department of life. As we study the Sermon on the
Mount, we shall find every clause in it reiterating the
great truth that outside things are but the expression
(ex-pressed or pressed out) or out-picturing of our
inner thoughts and beliefs; that we have dominion or
power over our thoughts to think as we will; and thus,
indirectly, we make or mar our lives by the way in
which we do think. Jesus will constantly tell us in these
discourses that we have no direct power over outer
things, because these outer things are but consequences,
or, if you like, resultant pictures of what goes on in the
Secret Place. If it were possible for us to affect ex­
ternals directly without changing our thought, it would
mean that we could think one thing and produce an­
other; and this would be contrary to the Law of the
Universe. Indeed, it is just this very notion which is the
basic fallacy that lies at the root of all human trouble-
all sickness and sin, all strife and poverty, and even
death itself.
The great Law of the Universe, however, is just
this—
that what you think in your mind you will pro­
duce in your experience. As within, so without. You
cannot think one thing and produce another. If you
want to control your circumstances for harmony and
happiness, you must first control your thoughts for
harmony and happiness, and then the outer things will
follow. If you want health, you must first think health;
33
The Sermon on the Mount
34
and, remember, thinking health does not mean merely
thinking a healthy body, important as that is, but it also
includes thinking peace and contentment, and good-will
to all, for, as we shall see later on in the Sermon, de­
structive emotion is one of the primary causes of dis­
ease. If you want spiritual unfoldment and growth in
the knowledge of God, you must think spiritual
thoughts—God thoughts—
and give your attention,
which is your life, to God rather than to limitation.
If you want material prosperity, you must first think
prosperity thoughts, and then make a habit of doing
so, for the thing that keeps most people poor is the
sheer habit of poverty thinking. If you want congenial
companionship, if you want to be loved, you must first
think thoughts of love and good-will. Like begets like,
is another way of stating the Great Law, which means
that as a man soweth in his unseen thoughts, so shall
he reap in that which is seen. “All things work together
for good to those who love good,” and to love good
means to occupy oneself with thoughts of good.
When people awaken to a knowledge of these great
truths, they naturally try to begin to apply them in
their own lives. Realizing at last the vital importance
of “righteousness,” or the thinking only of harmonious
thoughts, they, as sensible people, begin immediately
to try to put their house in order. The principle in­
volved is perfectly simple, but unfortunately the doing
of it is anything but easy. Now, why should this be so?
The answer lies in the extraordinary potency of habit; f
and habits of thinking are at once the most subde in
character and the most difficult to break. It is easy,
The Beatitudes
comparatively speaking, to break a physical habit if one
really means business, because action on the physical
plane is so much slower and more palpable than on the
mental plane. In dealing with habits of thought, how­
ever, we cannot, so to say, stand back and take a com­
paratively detached view, as we can in contemplating
our actions. Our thoughts flow across the stage of con­
sciousness in an unbroken stream, and so rapidly that
only unceasing vigilance can deal with them. Again, the
theatre of one’s actions is the area of his immediate
presence. I can act only where I am. I may give orders
by letter, or telephone; or I may press a button and
bring about results at a distance; but still, my action
happens where I am, and at the present moment of
time. In thought, on the contrary, I can range over the
whole area of my life, including all the people with
whom I have been or am in any way concerned, and I
can soar away into the past or into the future with equal
ease. W e see, therefore, how much bigger the task of
achieving all-round harmonious thinking, or true
righteousness, is than appears at first sight.
For this reason many people become discouraged
with themselves and indulge in a great deal of self-
condemnation because they do not very speedily change
the whole current of thought over the whole area of
their lives—destroy the old Adam, as Paul says—
in a very
short time. This, of course, is a capital mistake and,
incidentally, self-condemnation being an essentially
negative, and therefore unrighteous thought, tends to
produce still more trouble, in the old vicious circle. If
you are not progressing as fast as you wish to, the
3 5
remedy is—to be still more careful to hold only har­
monious thoughts. Do not dwell upon your mistakes or
upon the slowness of your progress, but claim the
Presence of God with you, all the more, in the teeth of
the discouraging suggestion. Claim Wisdom. Claim
Power, or prosperity in prayer. Have a mental stock­
taking or a review of your life, and see if you are not
still thinking wrongly in some section or other of your
mind. Is there some wrong line of conduct that you are
still pursuing? Is there somebody whom you have not
yet forgiven? Are you indulging in any kind of politi­
cal, or racial, or religious sectarian hatred or contempt?
This is sure to be disguising itself under a cloak of self-
righteousness, if it is there. If it is, tear off the cloak,
and get rid of the evil thing, for it is poison in your life.
Is there some kind of jealousy left in your heart?—
it may
be personal or it may be professional. This odious thing
is a good deal more common than would be readily ad­
mitted in polite society. If it is there, cut it out at any
cost. Are there any sentimental regrets, or purposeless
yearnings for the impossible? If so, reflect that, as an
immortal being, the Son of God holding spiritual do­
minion, no good thing is out of your reach, here and
Clow. Waste no more time repining for what is over
and done, but make the present and the future a splen­
did realization of your heart’s desire. Is there remorse
for mistakes past and gone? Then remember that re­
morse, as distinct from repentance, is merely a form of
spiritual pride. T o revel in it, as some people do, is
treason to the love and forgiveness of God, who says:
36 The Sermon on the Mount
“ Behold now is the day of salvation.” “Behold I make
all things new.”
In this Beatitude, Jesus tells us not to be discour­
aged because we do not overcome everything at once,
because our progress seems to be slow. If we are not
making any progress at all, then we cannot be praying
in the right way, and it is for us to find out why, by
examining our lives, and by praying for wisdom and
guidance. Indeed, we should constantly pray for wisdom
and guidance, and for the living action of the Holy
Spirit upon us, that the quality of our prayers—
our
prosperity—
may constantly increase. But if we are
moving, if things are improving, although not very
quickly it may be, we have no need to be discouraged.
We need only to work on steadily, and provided we
are truly whole-hearted in our efforts, provided, that
is to say, that we really are hungering and thirsting for
righteousness, then, at last, we shall surely be filled. It
could not happen that a whole-hearted search for truth
and righteousness, if persevered in, should not be
crowned with success. God is not mocked, nor does He
mock His children.
Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy
This is a brief summary of the Law of Life which
Jesus develops more fully later in the Sermon {Matt.
7: 1-5). As it stands, the Beatitude calls for very little
comment, because the words employed bear the ordi­
nary meaning which we still give them in daily life, and
the statement as given is as clear and obvious in its
The Beatitudes 37
meaning as the law in question is simple and inflexible
in its action.
The point that the Scientific Christian needs to note
is that, as usual, the vital bearing of the principle cov­
ered in this Beatitude lies in its application to the realm
of thought. The thing that really matters is that you be
merciful in your thought. Kind actions coupled with
unkind thoughts are hypocrisy, dictated by fear, or
desire for self glory, or some such motive. They are
counterfeits and they bless neither the giver nor the
recipient. On the other hand, the true thought about
fellow-man blesses him spiritually, mentally, and ma­
terially; and blesses you too. Let us be merciful in our
mental judgments of our brother, for, in truth, we are
all one, and the more deeply he seems to err, the more
urgent is the need for us to help him with the right
thought, and so make it easier for him to get free. You—
because you understand the power of the Spiritual Idea,
the Christ Truth—
have a responsibility that others have
not; see that you do not evade it. When his delinquency
comes to your notice, remember that the Christ in him
is calling out for help to you who are enlightened—
so
be merciful.
Because in deed and in truth we are all one, com­
ponent parts of the living garment of God, you yourself
will ultimately receive the same treatment that you mete,
out to others; you will receive the same merciful help in
your own hour of need from those who are farther along
the path than you are. Above all is it true that, in freeing
others from the weight of your condemnation, you
38 The Sermon on the Mount
The Beatitudes
make it possible to absolve yourself from self-
condemnation.
Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.
This is one of those wonderful gnomic sayings in
which the Bible is so rich. It is nothing less than a sum­
ming up in a few words of the whole philosophy of
religion. As usual, in the Scriptures, the words are used
in a technical sense and cover a far wider meaning than
we attach to them in everyday life.
Let us begin by considering what the promise in this
Beatitude is. It is nothing less than to see God. Now,
we know, of course, that God has no corporeal form,
and therefore, there is no question of “seeing” Him
in the ordinary physical sense in which one might see
a human being or an object. If one could see God in this
way, He would have to be limited, and, therefore, not
God. T o “see” in the sense referred to here, signifies
spiritual perception, and spiritual perception means just
that capacity to apprehend the true nature of Being
which we all so sadly lack.
W e live in God’s world, but we do not in the least
know it as it is. Heaven lies all about us—
it is not a
distant locality afar off in the skies, but all around us
now—
but because we are lacking in spiritual perception,
we are unable to recognize it; that is to say, we are un­
able to experience it; and, therefore, so far as we are
concerned, we may be said to be shut out of Heaven.
W e do contact a very tiny fragment of it, and that tiny
fragment we call the universe; but even that little bit,
we see. for the most part, all awry. Heaven is the re*
39
The Sermon on the Mourn
40
ligious name for the Presence of God, and Heaven is in*
finite; but our mental habit leads us to mould our
experience into three dimensions only. Heaven is Eter­
nity, but what we know here, we know only serially, in
a sequence called “time,” which never permits of our
comprehending an experience in its entirety. God is
Divine Mind, and in that Mind there are no limitations
or restrictions at all; yet we see everything distributed
in what is called “space,” or spaced out—an artificial re­
striction which continuously inhibits the constant re­
grouping of our experience that is required by our
creative thought.
Heaven is the realm of Spirit, Substance; without age,
or discord, or decay; a realm of eternal good; and yet,
to our distorted vision, everything is ageing, decaying,
wearing out; getting born only to die, blossoming only
to fade.
We are very much in the position of a color-blind
man in a beautiful flower garden. All around him are
glorious colors; but he is quite unaware of them and
sees only blacks, whites, and grays. If we suppose him to
be also devoid of the sense of smell, we shall see what
a very small part of the glory of the garden exists for
him. Yet it is all there, if he could but sense it.
This limitation in us is known in theology as the
“Fall of Man,” and it arises from our using our free
will in opposition to the W ill of God. “ God has made
man upright, but he has sought out many inventions.”
Our task is to surmount these limitations as rapidly as
may be, until we reach the point where we can know
things as they really are—
experience Heaven as it really
The Beatitudes
is. That is what is meant by “seeing God,” and seeing
him “face to face.” To see God is to apprehend Truth
as it really is, and this is infinite freedom and perfect
bliss.
In this wonderful Beatitude we are told exactly how
this supreme task is to be accomplished and who they
are who shall do it. They are the pure in heart. Again,
we have to understand that here the words “pure” and
“purity” must be taken in a very much wider sense
than that which is commonly allotted to them. Purity,
in the Bible, means a very great deal more than physical
purity—
vitally important though that is. In its full and
complete sense, purity is recognizing God alone as the
only real Cause, and the only real Power in existence. It
is what is called elsewhere in the Sermon “the single
eye,” and it is the Master Key to life. It is nothing less
than the secret of escape from all sickness, trouble, and
limitation; the overcoming or reversing, in short, of the
Fall of Man. And so, our text might well be paraphrased
something in this style:
“Blessed are they who recognize God as the only
real Cause, and the only real Presence, and the only
real Power; not merely in a theoretical or formal way,
but practically, and specifically, and whole-heartedly,
in all their thoughts, and words, and actions; and not
merely in some parts of their lives, but in every nook
and corner of their lives and mentalities, keeping noth­
ing back from Him, but bringing their own wills in
every last particular into perfect harmony with His
W ill—
for they shall overcome all limitation of time, and
4»
The Sermon on the Mount
4 *
space, and matter, and carnal mind; and realize and
enjoy the Presence of God forever.”
W e note how clumsy any paraphrase of a Bible truth
always sounds after the matchless grace and conciseness
of the inspired text. It is a good thing for each one occa­
sionally to paraphrase in his own language the most
familiar texts of Scripture, for this will help him to make
clear to his own mind exactly what meaning he is at­
taching to the text. It will often serve to draw his atten­
tion to important meanings which he has hitherto over­
looked. Note that Jesus speaks of the pure in hem
The word “heart” in the Bible usually means that part
of man’s mentality which modem psychology knows
under the name of the “subconscious mind.” This is ex­
ceedingly important because it is not sufficient for us
to accept the Truth with the conscious mind only. At
that stage it is still a mere opinion. It is not until it is
accepted by the subconscious mind, and thus assimilated
into the whole mentality, that it can make any difference
in one’s character or life. “As a man thinketh in his
heart, so is he.” “Keep thy heart with all diligence, for
out of it are the issues of life.”
Most people, and learned people especially, have all
kinds of knowledge that does not in the least affect or
improve their practical lives. Doctors know all about
hygiene, but often live in an unhealthy way, notwith­
standing; and philosophers, who are acquainted with the
accumulated wisdom of the ages, and assent to most of
it, continue to do foolish and stupid things in their own
personal lives, and are unhappy and frustrated in conse­
quence. Now, knowledge such as this is only opinion,
The Beatitudes
or head knowledge, as some people call it. It has to be­
come heart knowledge, or to be incorporated into the
subconscious, before it can really change one. The
modem psychologists in their efforts to “re-educate the
subconscious” have the right idea, though they have not
yet discovered the true method of doing so, which is by
scientific prayer, or the Practice of the Presence of God.
Jesus, of course, thoroughly understood all this, and
that is why he stresses the fact that we have to be purt
in heart.
Blessed are the peace makers: for they shall be called
the children of God.
Here we receive an invaluable practical lesson in the
art of prayer—and prayer, be it remembered, is our only
means of returning to our communion with God. To the
casual reader this Beatitude might sound like a mere con­
ventional religious generalization, even a sententious
platitude of the kind too often favored by people who
are anxious to be edifying without having anything in
particular to say. As a matter of fact, prayer is the only
real action in the full sense of the word, because prayer
is the only thing that changes one’s character. A change
in character, or a change in soul, is a real change. When
that kind of change takes place, you become a different
person and, therefore, for the rest of your life you act
in a different way from the way in which you have
previously acted, and in which you would have con­
tinued to act had you not prayed. In other words, you
become a different man. The amount of the difference
may be only very slight for each time that you pray;
43
The Sermon on the Mount
44
nevertheless it is there, for you cannot pray without
making yourself different in some degree. If you should
get a very strong realization of the Presence of God
with you, it would make a very great and dramatic
change in your character, so that, in the twinkling of an
eye, your outlook, your habits, your whole life, in fact,
would completely change in every respect. Many such
cases are on record, both in the East and in the West;
the genuine cases of what used to be called “ conversion”
being instances in point. Because the change caused by
prayer is a radical one, Jesus refers to it as being “ bom
again.” Since it makes you into a different man, it is
actually as though you had been bom anew. The word
“prayer” should be understood as including any form
of communion or attempted communion with God,
whether vocal, or purely mental. It includes both af­
firmative and invocatory prayer, each of which is good
in its own place; meditation; and the highest of all forms
of prayer, which is contemplation.
In the absence of prayer, all that you can do is to
express the character that you have, in whatever cir­
cumstances you find yourself. So much is this the case
that most of your friends would be prepared to predict
beforehand what your conduct would be in various kinds
of crises that could arise. Prayer, by changing your
character, makes a new reaction possible.
The great essential for success in prayer—
for ob­
taining that sense of the Presence of God, which is the
secret of healing oneself and others too; of obtaining
inspiration, which is the breath of the soul; of acquir­
ing spiritual development—
is that we first attain some
The Beatitudes
degree of true peace of mind. This true, interior soul-
peace was known to the mystics as serenity, and they
are never tired of telling us that serenity is the grand
passport to the Presence of God—
the sea as smooth as
glass that is round about the Great White Throne. This
is not to say that one cannot overcome even the most
serious difficulties by prayer without having any serenity
at all, for of course one can. In fact, the greater the
trouble one is in, the less serenity he will be able to have,
and serenity itself is only to be had by prayer, and by
the forgiving of others, and of oneself. But, serenity
you must have, before you can make any true spiritual
progress; and it is serenity, that fundamental tranquillity
of soul, that Jesus refers to by the word “peace”—the
peace that passes all human understanding.
The peace makers spoken of in this Beatitude are
those who make or bring about this true peace, or
serenity, in their own souls, for it is they who surmount
limitation and become actually, and not merely poten­
tially, the children of God. This condition of mind is
the objective at which Jesus aims in all the instructions
which he gives us in the Sermon on the Mount and
-Jsewhere. “Peace I leave with you, my peace I give
unto you . . . let not your heart be troubled, neither
let it be afraid.” As long as there is fear, or resentment,
or any trouble in your heart, that is to say, as long as
you lack serenity, or peace, it is not possible for you to
attain very much.
Some degree of serenity is essential to the attainment
of any true concentration.
Of course, to be a peace maker in the usual sense of
45
The Sermon on the Mount
46
composing the quarrels of other people is an excellent
thing; but, as all practical people know, an excessively
difficult role to fill. By interfering in other people’s
strife, it is ever so much easier to make things worse
than to make them better. Personal opinion is almost
certain to enter into your efforts, and personal opinion
is exceedingly likely to be wrong. If you can get both
of the people concerned to take a new view of the
matter in controversy, that, of course, is well; but, other­
wise, if you merely bring about a compromise in which
they consent to agree from motives of self-interest or
as the result of some kind of coercion, then the trouble
has only been patched up on the surface, and there is
no true peace, because they are not, both of them, satis­
fied and forgiving.
Once you understand the power of prayer, you will
be able really to heal many quarrels in the true way;
probably without speaking at all. The silent thought of
the All-Power of Love and Wisdom will cause any
trouble to melt away almost imperceptibly. Then, what­
ever arrangement will be best for all parties in the long
run will come about under the influence of the Word
thus spoken silently.
Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteous­
ness’ sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed
are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you,
and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for
my sake. Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your
reward in Heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets
which were before you.
The Beatitudes
In view of what we know about the essential charac­
ter of the teaching of Jesus, that the Will of God for us
is harmony, peace, and joy, and that these things are to
be attained by cultivating right thoughts, or “righteous­
ness,” this is a very startling statement. Jesus tells us
again and again that it is our Father’s good pleasure to
give us the Kingdom, and that the way in which we are
to receive it is by cultivating serenity, or peace of soul.
He says that the peace makers who do this, praying in
“meekness,” shall obtain prosperity, inherit the earth,
have their mourning turned into joy, and that, in fact,
whatever they shall ask the Father in the manner of this
teaching, that will He do. Yet, here we are told that it
is blessed to be persecuted as the result of our right
thinking, or “righteousness,” for that by this means we
shall triumph; that it is cause for rejoicing and gladness
to be reviled and accused; and that the Prophets and
great Illumined Ones suffered these things too.
All this is indeed very startling, and it is perfectly
correct; only we have to understand that the source of
all this persecution is none other than our own selves.
No outside persecutor, but only our own lower selves.
When we find righteousness or right thinking very
difficult—
when we are very strongly tempted to hold
the wrong thoughts about some situation, or some per­
son, or about ourselves; to give way to fear, or anger, or
despondency—
then we are being persecuted for right­
eousness■’ sake, and this is for us an extremely fortunate
or blessed condition, for it is in such moments that we
are really advancing. Every spiritual treatment or
scientific prayer involves a tussle with our own lower
47
self which wishes to indulge the old habit of thought,
and, in fact, persecutes and reviles us—
if we like to put
the thing dramatically in the Oriental way. All the great
Prophets and Enlightened Ones of the race who ulti­
mately overcame, did so by just such struggles with
themselves, when they were being persecuted by their
own lower natures, or the Old Adam. Jesus himself,
“who was tempted in all respects like as we are,” had
to meet this “persecution” more than once; especially
in the Garden of Gethsemane, and, for a few moments,
on the Cross itself. Now, since these combats with the
lower self have to be fought out sooner or later, then
the sooner they are over and done with the better, and
so, relatively speaking, they are great blessings.
Note carefully that there is no virtue or advantage
whatever in being persecuted or annoyed by other
people. Nothing can come into our experience unless it
finds something in us with which it is attuned; and so,
to have trouble and difficulty is only a sign that our own
mentality needs clearing up; for what you see at any
time is nothing but your own concept. There is at this
point a grave danger for weak, or vain, or self-righteous
people. Because others do not treat them just as they
would like to be treated, because they do not get con­
sideration that they probably do not deserve, they are
often inclined to claim that they are being “persecuted”
on account of their spiritual superiority, and to give
themselves absurd airs on this ground. This is a pathetic
fallacy. In consequence of the great Law of Life, of
which the whole Sermon on the Mount is an exposition,
we can get only what belongs to us at any time, and
48 The Sermon on the Mount
The Beatitucres
nobody can prevent our getting that; and so all persecu­
tion and hindrance are absolutely from within.
Despite the sentimental tradition which clings about
it, there is no virtue in martyrdom. Did the martyr but
possess a sufficient understanding of Truth, it would not
be necessary for him to undergo that experience. Jesus
was not a “martyr.” He could have saved himself at
any time had he wished to avoid the crucifixion. It was
necessary that someone should triumph over death,
having actually died, to make that demonstration possi­
ble for us. But he deliberately chose to do a certain
work for us in his own way, and was not martyred. W e
must not in any way depreciate the splendid courage
and devotion and heroic self-sacrifice of the martyrs of
all ages; but we have to see that their understanding
was incomplete, or they would not have been martyred.
If you fix your attention on martyrdom, regarding it, as
so many did, as the highest good, you will—as with
anything upon which you fix your attention—
tend to
bring it to yourself. While we may well envy them the
moral and spiritual heights which they did attain, we
know that, had the martyrs “loved” their enemies suffi­
ciently-loved them, that is to say, in the scientific sense
of knowing the Truth about them—
then the Roman
persecutor—even Nero himself—
would have opened the
doors of their prison; and the fanatic of the Inquisition
would have come to reconsider his cause.
4 9
Chapter III
AS A M AN T H IN K E T H
Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his
savour, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good
for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot
of men.
Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill
cannot be hid.
Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel,
but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in
the house.
Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your
good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.
{Matthew V)
I
n t h i s wonderful passage Jesus is addressing those
who have awakened to the understanding of ma­
terial bondage, and have acquired some spiritual under­
standing of the nature of Being. That is to say, he is
addressing those who understand the meaning of the
Allness of God or Good, and the powerlessness of evil
in the face of Truth. Such people he describes as being
the salt of the earth, and the light of the world-, and, in­
deed, that is not too much to claim for those who un­
derstand the Truth, and who really live the life that
corresponds to it. It is possible, and, in fact, only too
easy, to accept these vital principles as being true; to
50
As a Man Thinketh
love the beauty in them; and yet not to put them con­
sistently into practice in one’s own life; but this is a
perilous attitude, for in that case the salt has lost its
savour, and is good for nothing but to be cast out and
trodden under foot.
If you understand and accept the teachings of Jesus;
and if you make every effort to practise them in every
department of your own daily life; if you seek sys­
tematically to destroy in yourself everything which you
know should not be there, things such as selfishness,
pride, vanity, sensuality, self-righteousness, jealousy,
self-pity, resentment, condemnation, and so forth—
not
feeding or nourishing them by giving in to them, but
starving them to death by refusing them expression; if
you extend the right thought loyally to every person or
thing within your ken, especially to the people or things
you dislike; then you are worthy to be called the salt
of the earth.
If you truly live this life, then it does not in the least
matter what your present circumstances may be, or
what difficulties you may have to struggle against, you
will triumph over them all—
you will make your demon­
stration. And not only will you make your own
demonstration, in the quickest possible time, but you
will be, and in a very positive and literal sense, a healing
and illumining influence on all around you, and a bless­
ing to the whole human race. You will be a blessing to
men and women in remote places and times, men and
women of whom you have never heard, and who will
never hear of you—
a light of the world, in fact, star­
tling and wonderful as that may sound.
5 1
The state of your soul is always expressed in your
outer conditions and in the intangible influence which
you radiate at large. There is a Cosmic Law that nothing
can permanently deny its own nature. Emerson said:
“ What you are shouts so loudly that I cannot hear what
you say.” In the Bible, the “ city” always stands for
consciousness, and the “ hill,” or “mountain,” always
means prayer or spiritual activity. “ I will lift up mine
eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help.” “Ex­
cept the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but
in vain.” The soul that is built upon prayer cannot be
hidden, it shines out brightly through the life that it
lives. It speaks for itself, but in utter silence, and does
much of its best work unconsciously. Its mere presence
heals and blesses all around it without special effort.
Never try to force other people to accept Spiritual
Truth. Instead, see to it that they are so favorably
impressed by your own life and conduct, and by the
peace and joy that radiate from you, that they will
come running to you of their own accord, begging you
to give them the wonderful thing that you have. “ I
(the Christ Truth) if I be lifted up, will draw all men
unto me.” To do this is to make your soul truly the
city upon a hill that cannot be hidden because it is the
Golden City, the City of God. This is to let your light
shine to the glorifying of your Father which is in
Heaven.
Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the
prophets: I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil.
For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one
52 The Sermon on the Mount
jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till ail be
fulfilled.
Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least com­
mandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the
least in the kingdom of heaven: but whosoever shall do and
teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of
heaven.
For I say unto you, That except your righteousness shall
exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall
in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven.
(Matthew V)
True Christianity is an entirely positive influence. It
comes into a man’s life to enlarge and enrich it, to make
it fuller and wider and better; never to restrict it. You
cannot lose anything that is worth having through ac­
quiring a knowledge of the Truth. Sacrifice there has
to be, but it is only sacrifice of the things that one is
much happier without—
never of anything that is really
Worth having. Many people have the idea that getting
a better knowledge of God will mean giving up things
that they will regret losing. One girl said: “ I mean
to take up religion later on when I am older, but I want
to enjoy myself for a while first.” This, however, is to
miss the whole point. The things one has to sacrifice
are selfishness, fear, and belief in necessary limitation of
any kind. Above all, one has to sacrifice the belief that
there is any power or endurance in evil apart from the
power that we ourselves give it by believing in it. Draw­
ing near to God would not have caused this girl to
lose any enjoyment, but rather she would have gained
immeasurably in happiness. It is quite true that as her
consciousness changed she would probably have found
As a Man Thinketh 53
The Sermon on the Mount
54
that certain forms of pleasure-hunting no longer at«
tracted her. This would probably have happened, but
there would have been ample compensation in the new
light that would be thrown upon every phase of her
life, and in the wonderful new aspects that the world
would begin to wear for her. It is only things not worth
having that would disappear under the action of Truth.
If, on the other hand, anyone were so insane as to
suppose that the knowledge of the Truth of Being could
put him “above” the moral law, in the sense of authoriz­
ing him to break it, he would speedily discover that he
had made a tragic mistake. The more spiritual knowl­
edge that one possesses, the more severe is the punish­
ment which he brings upon himself by any infraction of
the moral law. The Christian cannot afford to be less
careful than others in observing the whole moral code in
every nook and cranny of his life; he has, on the con­
trary, to be very much more careful than other people.
Indeed, all real spiritual understanding must necessarily
be accompanied by definite moral improvement. A the­
oretical acceptance of the letter of Truth might go with
moral carelessness (greatly to the peril of the delin­
quent), but it is utterly impossible to make any real
spiritual progress unless you are honestly trying your
very best to live the life. It is utterly impossible to
divorce true spiritual knowledge from right conduct.
A “ jot” (the Greek iota) means “ yod” the smallest
letter in the Hebrew alphabet. The “tittle” (really “little
horn” ) is one of those tiny spurs or projections that dis­
tinguish one Hebrew letter from another. The thought
is that not only the letter of the moral law is to be kept.
As a Man Thinketh
but the minutest detail of the letter. W e have to ex­
emplify not merely common morality, but the highest
standards of honor.
The Scribes and the Pharisees, in spite of their defects,
were for the most part worthy men leading strictly
moral lives according to their lights. Unfortunately,
they had only the letter of the law, but that letter they
usually kept in its entirety, rigorously doing their duty
as they saw it. Their faults were the fatal weaknesses of
the religious formalist everywhere—
spiritual pride and
self-righteousness. O f these faults they were sublimely
unconscious—
that is the deadly malice of these diseases
of the soul—and they did strive to fulfil the law as they
understood it. Jesus knew this, and he gave them credit
for it; and here he warns his followers that unless their
practical conduct is in every respect as good as, and even
better than, that of these people, they need not suppose
that they are making any spiritual headway. Spiritual
attainment and the highest standards of conduct must go
hand in hand. Unless both are there, neither is there.
As you grow in true spiritual power and understand-
ing you will actually find that many outer rules and regu­
lations will become unnecessary; but this will be because
you have really risen above them; never, never, because
you have fallen below them. This point in your develop­
ment, where your understanding of Truth enables you
to dispense with certain outer props and regulations, is
the Spiritual Coming of Age. When you really are no
longer spiritually a minor, you will cease to need some
of the outer observances that formerly seemed indis­
pensable; but your resulting life will be purer, truer.
53
freer, and less selfish than it was before; and that is
the test.
To give a simple illustration: Some people find that
at a certain stage of their progress their mental pro­
cesses become so orderly and clarified that, with a little
treatment, they can go through their day’s work, keep
all their appointments, and discharge all their duties,
without bothering to consult the clock or needing to
carry a watch. N ow it has sometimes happened that one
of their friends, knowing about this and desiring to
emulate them, has taken the simple step of leaving his
watch at home and ignoring the clock, with the result
that he is late for all of his appointments, thus upsetting
his own day’s work and that of other people too, whose
convenience he did not trouble to study. When the
student is spiritually ready to dispense with his watch,
he will find himself doing the right thing at the right
time without thinking about a watch at all; whereas,
when he has to make special arrangements to discard
his watch, and then finds himself late for engagements,
it is proof that he is not yet ready to demonstrate in
that particular. The proper course for such a person is
to carry a watch, work to a time table, and devote his
treatments to things that really matter, such as healing
himself and others, overcoming sin, working for under­
standing and wisdom, and so on. So it is with the larger
issues of life. This Spiritual Coming of Age cannot be
hurried or forced, but must appear in its own good
time, when the consciousness is ready, exactly as the
flowering of a bulb can only be the result of natural
growth. You have to demonstrate where you are. Let
56 The Sermon on the Mount
As a Man Thinketh
this be for frontlets between your eyes, and write it
upon the door-posts of your heart—
you have to demon­
strate where you are. T o seek to demonstrate beyond
your understanding is not spiritual. Spiritual develop­
ment is a matter of growth, and he that believeth shall
not unwisely make haste. Fix your attention whole­
heartedly upon spiritual things, and meanwhile do all
that needs to be done in the ordinary way; and without
consciously trying to make haste you will be amazed
to discover the pace at which your soul has hastened.
T o take a simple example: Suppose that in a street
accident you find that a man has severed an artery,
and the blood is spurting out. The normal course of
things is that unless this bleeding is stopped the victim
will die within a few minutes. Now, what is the spiritual
attitude to take in such a case? Well, it is perfectly sim­
ple. Immediately you perceive what has happened; you
must turn the other cheek by knowing the Truth of
the Omnipresence of God. If you get this clear enough,
as Jesus would, for instance, the severed artery will im­
mediately be healed, and there will be nothing more to
be done. It is exceedingly unlikely, however, that you
will get your realization clear enough for this, and so -
demonstrating where you are—
you must take the usual
steps to save the man’s life by immediately improvis­
ing a tourniquet, or whatever the proper procedure
may be.
Or, again, suppose that a child falls into the canal
when you are passing by. Once more, the appropriate
action will be to “speak the Word,” and once more,
if you have sufficient Spiritual Power, that child will
51
The Servian on the Mount
58
immediately be seen in safety; but if not, then—demon
strating where you are—
you must proceed to rescue
him in whatever is the best way; diving in if that should
be necessary, and praying as you act.
But, what of the man who is conscious of consid­
erable moral imperfection, perhaps of the habit of grave
sin, and is at the same time sincerely desirous of spiritual
growth? Is he to relinquish the quest for spiritual knowl­
edge until he has first reformed his conduct? B y no
means. As a matter of fact, any attempt to improve
himself morally without spiritual growth is foredoomed
to failure. No more can a man—
to use Lincoln’s phrase-
raise himself off the ground by pulling on his own boot­
straps, than the sinner can reform himself by his own
personal efforts. The only result of relying upon himself
in such cases will be repeated failure, consequent dis­
couragement, and probably ultimate despair of doing
any good. The one thing for such a person to do is to
pray regularly, especially at the actual time of tempta­
tion, and to throw the responsibility for success upon
God. He must carry on in this way, no matter how
many times he may fail; and, if he continues to pray,
and especially if he prays in the scientific way, he will,
as a matter of fact, very soon find that the power of evil
has been broken, and that he is free from that particular
sin. T o pray scientifically is to keep affirming that God
is helping him, that the temptation has no power against
him, and constantly to claim that his own real nature
is spiritual and perfect. This is ever so much more
powerful than merely to invoke the help of God. In
this way moral regeneration and spiritua1 unfoldment
will go hand in hand. The Christian life does not require
that we possess perfection of character, or else, which of
us would be able to live it? What it does require is
honest, genuine striving for that perfection.
Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou
shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of
the judgment:
But 1 say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his
brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment:
and whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in
danger of the council: but whosoever shall say, Thou fool,
shall be in danger of hell fire.
Therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there re-
memberest that thy brother hath ought against thee:
Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first
be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy
gift.
(Matthew V)
The Old Law, dealing as it did with an earlier and
lower state of the race consciousness, concerned itself
necessarily with external things, for man’s apparent
evolution is from the outer to the inner, just as his
fundamental spiritual growth is from the inner to the
outer. He begins by giving his attention exclusively
to externals, thinking to find in them Cause as well as
effect; but as he progresses, the truth gradually dawns
upon him that outer things are but the finished article,
the result of causes and happenings on the inner; and
when he has reached this stage, he has started defi­
nitely upon the search for God. So the Old Law con­
cerned itself, at least in the letter, almost altogether with
external observances, and it was satisfied if these were
fulfilled. It said “Thou shalt not kill,” and, provided t
As a Man Thinketh 59
man did no murder, he kept the law, regardless of how
much he may have desired to commit murder or how
bitterly he might still hate his enemy. It said “Thou
shalt not steal,” and provided he did not appropriate his
neighbor’s property, he was held to have fulfilled the
law, irrespective of what he felt about it.
Jesus came to carry the human race forward to the
next great step, the most important step of all, which
can indeed be the final step in the overcoming of all
our limitations, if only we can understand clearly what
that step implies, and take it. The heart of the whole
Sermon on the Mount, which is itself the essence of
the Christian message, is the insistence upon the need
for this very step—the understanding that outer con­
formity, absolutely essential as it is, is no longer suffi
cient in itself, but that now, if we are to “come of age”
spiritually, we have not merely to conform outwardly
to outer rules, but to change the inner man too.
The Old Law said “Thou shalt not kill,” but Jesus
says that even to want to kill, nay, even to be angry
with your brother, is sufficient to keep you out of the
Kingdom of Heaven; as, of course, it is. It was a dis­
tinct gain when primitive, barbarous people could be
persuaded not to murder those who had offended them,
but to develop sufficient self-control to master their
anger. Spiritual demonstration demands-that anger itself
be overcome. It is simply not possible to get any ex­
perience of God worth talking about, or to exercise
very much spiritual power in the way of healing, un­
less and until you have got rid of resentment and
condemnation concerning your brother man. Until
60 The Sermon on the Mount
As a Man Thvnketh 6t
you are prepared to get rid of this sort of thing, your
prayers will have very little effect. It may boldly be
said that in prayer, the more love, the more power;
and this is why people of developed spiritual perception
take such constant pains to keep themselves free from
thoughts of criticism and condemnation. They know
that they can have either their demonstration or their
indignation, but that they cannot have both; and so
they do not waste time in trying to.
Indignation, resentment, the desire to punish other
people or to see them punished, the desire to “get
even,” the feeling “it serves him right” ; all these things
form a quite impenetrable barrier to spiritual power or
progress. Jesus, dramatizing the thing in the Oriental
way, says that if you are bringing a gift to the altar,
and you remember that your brother has anything
against you, you must put down your gift without at­
tempting to offer it, and go away and first make peace
with your brother, and then, when you have done that,
your offering will be acceptable. It was the custom, as
we all know, to take gifts of various kinds to the
Temple, from bulls and cows down to doves and offer­
ings of incense, or, where it might be more convenient,
an offering of money equivalent in value to these
things. Now, under the N ew Law, or Christian dispen­
sation, our altar is our own consciousness, and our of­
ferings are our prayers and treatments. Our “burnt
sacrifices” are the error thoughts which we destroy or
bum away in spiritual treatment. And so Jesus says that
if, when we are about to pray, we remember tfiat we
have any wrong thoughts or hard feelings about our
The Sermon or* the Mount
Sz
brother man, no matter who he may be, and irrespective
oil whether the object of our hostile thought be an indi­
vidual or a body of people, we must pause there and
treat ourselves until we have got rid of this sense of
hostility, and have once more restored the seamless gar­
ment of our spiritual integrity.
Jesus builds up this tremendous lesson, again in the
Oriental tradition, by employing a series of steps—three
in this case. He says first that whoever is angry with
his brother shall be in danger; secondly that to be really
or seriously—one may say vindictively—hostile to an­
other, is to be in grave danger; and finally, that to hold
so low an opinion about a fellow creature as to allow
ourselves to consider him to be outside the pale, so to
speak, is to shut ourselves off from any hope of spiritual
fruit while we remain in this state of mind. To call a
man a “ fool” in this sense means that we consider that
no good is to be expected from him, which is to deny
the Indwelling Christ in him; and to do this is to bring
very serious consequences upon ourselves.
Note carefully that the Authorized, or King James
version of the Bible, which is by far the best all-round
edition for spiritual purposes, here makes a serious error,
which has been corrected in the Revised version. It
makes Jesus say, “Whosoever is angry with his brother
without a cause” ; which is a manifest absurdity. No sane
person gets angry without what he deems to be a cause,
however trifling or irrelevant the cause that he assigns
may be. What Jesus said, of course, was that whoever
is angry with his brother under any circumstances is in
danger.
As a Man Thinketh
Agree with thine adversary quickly, whiles thou art in the
way with him; lest at any time the adversary deliver thee
to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and
thou be cast into prison.
Verily I say unto thee, Thou shalt by no means come out
thence, till thou hast paid the uttermost farthing.
(Matthew V)
This paragraph is of the utmost practical importance.
Jesus is stressing here the instruction contained in his
injunction to “watch and pray.” It is ever so much easier
to overcome a difficulty if you tackle it immediately,
at its first appearance, than it will be after the trouble
has had some little time to establish itself in your men­
tality—
to dig itself in, as the soldiers say. Soldiers know
that as long as troops are marching across open ground
it is not hard for the enemy to scatter and destroy them;
but once let them dig into the ground and entrench
themselves, and they become exceedingly difficult to
remove. So it is with evil. The moment it presents itself
to your attention, you should immediately turn it out,
repudiate it, refuse to accept it; and by quietly affirm­
ing the Truth, give it no chance to dig itself in. If you
do this, you will find that it will have little or no power
over you. This procedure will involve a tussle, and it
may appear for a little while that the enemy is gaining
ground; but, provided you have tackled him in the very
beginning, he will presently disappear and you will be
left victorious.
On the other hand, by accepting the error and by
thinking about it, you are incorporating it into your
mentality, and, if you go on doing this for long enough,
it may be exceedingly difficult to get rid of it. Most of
H
as realize this to our cost. W e find it comparatively
easy, once we have learned to pray scientifically, to
overcome new difficulties as they present themselves;
but the older ones whose position we have fortified by
long acceptance are difficult to dislodge.
Jesus, in accordance with his usual custom when he
wished to drive home a particularly important point,
employed a graphic illustration from the everyday life
of the people around him. In those times the law gov­
erning debtors was extremely severe. When a man
found himself in debt, it strongly behooved him to come
to terms with his creditor by any acceptable means,
and as quickly as possible. Even at the present day it is
highly important for the debtor to keep his case from
coming into court if possible—
because there are such
things as costs. These are added to the original debt, and
the longer the case drags on the more do lawyers’ fees,
court dues, and expenses of various kinds accumulate,
all piled on top of the debt proper. Indeed, cases are
cited where the costs involved in legal proceedings ac­
tually exceeded the original debt itself. So it is with the
various difficulties that present themselves to us in our
daily lives. The original difficulty as it first appeared
usually becomes multiplied many times by our wrong
thoughts concerning it, and we do not go free until the
whole debt is cleared. By coming to terms with the ad­
versary in the first place, that is to say, by getting oui
thought right immediately concerning the difficulty, we
incur no “ costs” and the transaction remains a simple
one.
Let us suppose that you find yourself sneezing. If you
64 The Sermon on the Mount
say: “ There, now I have caught cold again; now I am
in for it!” and then proceed, as people so often do, to
dwell upon the thought that you have caught cold, and
on the various inconveniences that will probably follow
upon that, you are giving the trouble the opportunity
to dig itself in to your mentality. People often go on
from this to indulge in quite a meditation upon sickness
in general, and colds in particular. They will think over
the previous few days to discover when they caught
cold, and they will probably decide with considerable
satisfaction that it must be due to that open window on
Tuesday, or to sitting, on Wednesday, in the company
of a friend who already had a cold; and so forth. Then
perhaps they go on to think over several so-called rem­
edies which, however, they have found in the past to be
useless. V ery frequently they will actually speculate
as to how long the coming cold will probably last, usu­
ally appointing some definite time such as ten days or
two weeks, which, for some reason or other, they sup­
pose to be the natural duration of a cold. In certain
cases they even go beyond this, having built up a habit
of associating certain secondary ailments with the cold
proper, such as bronchitis, temporary deafness, stomach
trouble, or what-not. N ow we have seen that this is
the very way in which to produce all these things and,
therefore, it follows as a natural consequence that, in
due order, they put in their appearance as per schedule.
If such a person has some general knowledge of
Truth, he will, after thinking in this way for some time,
begin to treat himself spiritually as best he can. But by
this time he will have amplified the error so strongly,
As a Man Thmketh 65
will have allowed it so to dig itself in, that the handling
of his cold will be really quite a difficult business. If,
upon the error first presenting itself to his consciousness
—
if, that is to say, at the first moment that the possibility
of catching cold occurred to him, either through sneez­
ing or feeling chilly—he had immediately rejected it,
claimed his dominion, and affirmed the Truth, that
would probably have been the last of the matter, or, at
least, the whole thing would have been over in a few
hours.
Precisely the same rule applies to any other form of
error thought. Business or family difficulties should be
handled in exactly the same way. Let us suppose that
upon opening your morning mail you find bad news
concerning business affairs. It may be that you find a
notice informing you that the bank in which most or all
of your money is deposited has failed. Again, the usual
thing in such cases is to accept the worst and to dwell
upon it at almost any length. Many people in such a
case would quite saturate themselves with the thought
of ruin by thinking over it all day long and probably
all night long too, and by discussing it in all its details
with other people and rehearsing every kind of trouble
and difficulty that might come to them as the result of
the occurrence. In addition to all this, there would, in
many cases, be bitter resentment and condemnation
towards the people—
bank officials, and so on—
who
would be held to be responsible. Now, even a very
slight knowledge of the causative power of our thoughts
will show us what the result of all this must inevitably
66 The Sermon on the Mou?it
be. It must be to increase and multiply the trouble, and
make it more and more difficult to escape from it.
Of course, in such a case, a student of the Jesus Christ
teaching would sooner or later start to drive all such
thoughts out of his mentality, substituting for them his
knowledge of the true Law of Being. It may be, how­
ever, that having been taken off his guard by the sud­
denness and seriousness of the blow, it will be some time
before he begins to handle the problem in the light of
Truth; and it is this delay that will increase his difficulty
many times. The proper thing to do, according to Jesus,
is, immediately he becomes aware of the bad news, to
turn to God—his real support—to refuse to accept the
suggestion of trouble as binding upon him; and literally
to drive the thought of loss and danger right out of his
consciousness, together with the fear and the resentment
that go with it. If he does this, working steadily until
his peace of mind is restored, he will presently find
himself safely out of his difficulty. In some way or other
the trouble will disappear, and his fortunes will be re­
stored. Either the bank will speedily recover itself—
and
there is no reason at all why one person’s prayer should
not save the bank and the fortunes of thousands—
or, if
this for any reason be not possible, he will find that a
sum of money equal to or greater than the one he lost
in the bank will come to him from some other and prob­
ably quite unexpected direction. “Whosoever shall call
upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.”
The same principle would, of course, apply equally t<j
any kind of difficulty whatever, since universal har.
monv is the true Law of Being. A dispute, or quarrel,
As a Man Thinketh 67
68 The Sermon on the Mount
or misunderstanding should be handled in the same way
from the first moment you become aware of it.
Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou
shalt not commit adultery:
But I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman
to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already
in his heart.
(Matthew V)
In this unforgettable paragraph, Jesus stresses the
Master Truth, so utterly fundamental, yet so unsus­
pected by the world at large, that what really matters
is thought. People have always been accustomed to sup­
pose that as long as their deeds conformed to the law,
they have done all that can be reasonably expected of
them, and that their thoughts and feelings are of little
importance, and that in any case these are their own
business exclusively. But we know now that any out­
ward act is but the sequel to a thought, and that the
type of thought which we allow to become habitual
will sooner or later find expression on the plane of ac­
tion. W e understand now, in the light of Scientific
Christianity, that thoughts literally are things, and that
our choice of conduct really lies in our choice of the
kind of thought that we permit to occupy the stage of
our mind. In other words, we have discovered that a
wrong thought is just as destructive an act as a wrong
deed.
The logical consequence of this undeniable fact is
very startling. It means that if you entertain covetous
thoughts for your neighbor’s money, you are a thief at
heart, even though you may not yet have put your
hand in the till; and if you continue to entertain such
thoughts, it is only a question of time before you will
rob him. If you willingly nourish hatred, you are a
murderer at heart, even though your hands have not
moved to kill. The adulterer at heart is corrupting his
soul even though his impure thought is never expressed
on the physical plane. Lust, jealousy, vengeance, men­
tally entertained, carry the soul’s consent; and this soul-
consent is the malice of sin, whether the corresponding
outer acts be yet materialized or not. “ Keep thy heart
with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life,”
As a Man Thinketh 69
Chapter IV
R E S IS T N O T E V IL
And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast
it from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy
members should perish, and not that thy whole body should
be cast into hell.
And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off, and cast it
from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy mem­
bers should perish, and not that thy whole body should be
cast into hell.
h e soul’s integrity is the one and o n ly thing that
matters. We have no problem but to bring this
about, no need but to obtain this; for having this, we
have all. And so Jesus in his teaching is almost exclu­
sively concerned in impressing us with the overwhelm­
ing fact of its importance, and with instructing us in
how we are to accomplish it. He insists that positively
no sacrifice can be too great to insure the integrity of
one’s soul. Anything, anything that stands in the way
of that, must be given up. Cost what it will, involve what
it may, the integrity of the soul must be preserved; for
all other things—conduct, health, prosperity, life itself—
follow upon that. Better sacrifice your right eye itself,
he says, or cut off your very right hand, if need be, that
your soul may obtain the clarity of understanding that
is salvation.
(.Matthew V)
Jo
Resist Not Evil
It matters not what the thing may be that is standing
between us and our true contact with God—
it must go.
It may be a sin, it may be an old grudge left unforgiven,
it may be stark greed for the things of this world; but
whatever it is, it must go. Such things as these, however,
are so obvious that at least the transgressor is certain
to be aware of them; it is the subtle things like self-
love and his brother self-righteousness, spiritual pride,
and so forth, that are most difficult for the self to de­
tect and to exorcise—
but it must be done. It sometimes
happens that the practice of a certain profession, or the
association with certain people, or membership of some
particular body is what is standing in our way; and if
such is the case, we must not hesitate; the price must
be paid.
It hath been said, Whosoever shall put away his wife, let
him give her a writing of divorcement:
But I say unto you, That whosoever shall put away his
wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to com­
mit adultery: and whosoever shall marry her that is divorced
committeth adultery.
(.Matthew V)
W e are told that in those days divorces were granted
by the Rabbinical law on the most trifling grounds.
Married people who were not getting on together as
well as they would have liked, were too prone to run
away from that problem by obtaining an easy dissolu­
tion, and then trying their luck with someone else.
N ow we understand that no permanent happiness can
be obtained in this way. As long as you are running
away from your problem, you will continue to meet it
in a new guise at every turn in the road. The scientific
7 *
The Sermon on the Mount
72
solution is to meet your difficulty where you are by
means of spiritual treatment or scientific prayer. This
applies to problems concerning marriage quite as much
as, if not more than, to problems of any other kind. As
none of us is perfect, and the complainant is certain to
have his or her own faults no less than the delinquent,
he or she should endeavor, if it can possibly be done,
to make the present marriage a success by persistently
knowing the Spiritual Truth about both parties. If the
aggrieved partner will steadfastly see the Christ Truth
about the other one, then, in nearly every case a happy
solution will be the outcome. I have known a number
of instances where marriages which were on the point
of being dissolved were saved in this way with the most
satisfactory results. One woman said, after a few months
of handling her problem spiritually, “the man I was
going to divorce has disappeared; and the man whom
I married has come back. We are perfectly happy
again.”
Just as in running from one business position to an­
other, or from one home to another, without first having
brought about a change in consciousness, we find our­
selves but repeating the old conditions in a slightly dif­
ferent form, so, as a rule, people who divorce freely,
trying marriage after marriage, are apt to finish up as
dissatisfied as they began. The general rule in Truth is,
fight out your problem where you are, with prayer.
Nevertheless, there is a limit to what a man or
woman can be expected to put up with in marriage,
and in exceptional cases, no doubt, the lesser evil is a
dissolution; but this should be only the last resort. Jesus,
Resist Not Evil
We know, consistently refrained from laying down hard
and fast rules and regulations for the details of our
conduct, knowing that if our principles were right,
such things would take care of themselves without fail;
and we may be sure that, with his supremely practical
and common-sense handling of human problems, he
would have given the wise and merciful decision in any
particular case. The woman taken in adultery, for in-
stance, who should absolutely have been stoned to death
under the law of Moses, still current at that time, was
forgiven and dismissed in peace by him, in the teeth
of the written Scripture. A t any rate those who are in
any doubt concerning their own conduct in this mat­
ter have a simple remedy—they should treat for guid­
ance in their conduct. They should claim that Divine
Wisdom is illumining their understanding and directing
their actions in the matter, and avoid taking any defi­
nite steps until they find a clear leading in their own
consciousness.
The general rule is still good for all conditions in
life: Do not try to divorce or amputate the inharmony,
but let it dissolve away of itself under treatment. That
is what was done by the woman who said that the man
she married had come back; and she considers her
demonstration a perfect one.
Again, ye have heard that it hath been said by them of old
time, Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform unto
the Lord thine oaths:
But I say unto you, Swear not at all; neither by heaven;
for it is God’s throne:
N or by the earth; for it is his footstool: neither by Jerusa­
lem; tor it is the city of the great King.
73
74 The Sermon on the Mount
Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst
not make one hair white or black.
But let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for
whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil.
(Matthew V)
Swear not at all, is one of the cardinal points in the
teaching of Jesus. It means, briefly, that you are not to
take vows. You are not to mortgage your future con­
duct in advance; to undertake to do or to refrain from
doing something tomorrow, or next year, or thirty years
hence. You are not in any way to seek to fix your
conduct or your belief for tomorrow while it is yet
today—for “sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.”
It is an absolutely vital part of his teaching that you
are constantly to seek direct inspirational contact with
God, constantly to keep yourself an open channel for
the pouring out of the Holy Spirit into manifestation
through you. Now, if you make up your mind in ad­
vance as to what you shall do or shall not do, shall be­
lieve or shall not believe, shall think or shall not think,
shall be or shall not be, tomorrow, or next year, or for
the rest of your life—and especially when you crystal­
lize this determination by a solemn act of the will like a
vow—
you are not leaving yourself open to the action of
the Paraclete; but you are, by that very act, shutting
Him out. If you are to receive the guidance of God,
Divine Wisdom, it is absolutely essential that you have
an open mind, because it so often happens that the part
of wisdom is not in accord with your own personal
feelings or present opinions. But if you have taken a
vow or made a promise concerning your soul, for to
Resist Not Evfi
morrow, you are no longer uncommitted; and unless
you are uncommitted, the action of the Holy Spirit
cannot take place. This, in fact, is nothing less than the
sin against the Holy Ghost of which the Bible speaks,
which has caused so much terror to sensitive hearts, and
concerning which there seems to be a very general mis­
understanding.
What is the sin against the Holy Ghost? The sin
against the Holy Ghost is any action on your part
which prevents the activity of the Holy Ghost from
taking place in your soul; anything which shuts you
off from the ever fresh energizing action of God that
is spiritual life itself. The penalty for this mistake is
spiritual stagnation and, since the only remedy in such
a case consists in the direct action of the Holy Spirit,
and this mistake in itself tends to prevent that very ac­
tion from taking place, a condition of vicious deadlock
results. N ow it is obvious that this condition must neces­
sarily remain as long as the mistake is persisted in, and
so, in this sense, the sin is unforgivable. The problem
cannot be solved in any way until the victim is pre­
pared to change his attitude. The symptoms of this mal­
ady are spiritual stagnation, and all-round failure to
demonstrate, and these are only too often accompanied
by much self-righteousness and spiritual pride.
Of course, Jesus does not mean that you are not to
enter into ordinary business engagements, such as tak­
ing up the lease of a house, signing an agreement for
certain services, entering into partnership, and so on.
Nor does he mean that the ordinary oath administered
in a court of law is inadmissible. These things are mat­
7 5
ters of legal convenience for the transaction of business
between man and man, and they are right and neces­
sary in an ordered society. The Sermon on the Mount,
as we have seen, is a treatise on the spiritual life, for the
spiritual life controls all the rest. One who understands
the spiritual teaching of Jesus, and practises it, will be
in no danger of breaking honorable agreements. He will
be an ideal tenant, a desirable business partner, and a
reliable witness in court.
Many of the churches still require their ministers,
upon ordination—
and usually while they are still quite
young, immature minds—
solemnly to promise or vow
that they will, for the whole of their future lives, con­
tinue to believe the doctrines of their particular sect;
and this is what Jesus especially wished to prevent.
If one is praying every day, as he should, for enlight­
enment and guidance, the one certain thing is that he
will not go on holding to the same ideas as he grows
older, but that he will be continually revising, enlarg­
ing, and expanding them. He will die daily, as the man
he is, to be reborn bigger and wiser and better on the
morrow.
Other religious movements require even their private
members to accept some kind of Rule Book or written
instructions for their perpetual guidance; but any such
thing is quite fatal, because it automatically shuts out
the action of the Holy Spirit. In this respect some of
the youngest and most up-to-date churches are just as
sadly unspiritual as the oldest ones. You must always
be perfectly free at any moment to conduct the affairs
of your soul as the action of Divine Wisdom may lead
7<5 The Sermon on the Mount
Resist Not Evil
you; to pray or not to pray, to pray in this way or that
way, and for this or that purpose; to read or not to read
any book; to attend or not to attend any church or
meeting, as you may feel led.
In the same deadly spirit some teachers forbid their
students to read any religious books except those of
their own school. This is such an appalling crime against
the very life of the soul that no words can be found
adequately to characterize it.
On the whole, the most important application of this
injunction against making hard and fast rules lies in the
matter of our prayers. Many people have made rigid
rules for the conduct of their personal prayers or de­
votions; but these are sure to destroy the spirit of the
thing sooner or later. People say: “ I always start with
the Lord’s Prayer,” or a certain Psalm, or something
else. Others say: “I begin every treatment in such and
such a way.” All this is a mistake. You should always
pray as you feel led to do by the action of the Holy
Spirit in your soul at the moment. It is the spontaneous
prayer, the thought that is “given” to you at the mo­
ment, that carries power. A thought that is “given” to
you in this way has ten times more power to demon­
strate than one that you consciously select for yourself.
Remember, however, that it is only hard and fast rules
that are to be avoided. It is a good thing to have some
kind of schedule of prayer to fall back upon at times
when nothing better presents itself, and, in fact, most
beginners will need a schedule for some time. The essen­
tial point is that you must always be ready to drop it at
a moment’s notice, under the leading of Spirit. People
77
sometimes find themselves in a condition where theii
prayers appear to be bringing no result, and this is most
often due to the fact that they have simply gone stale
on fixed forms. If this happens, feel out mentally for
inspiration, and then use the first thought that comes;
or try dipping into the Bible at random.
This section further teaches us that we must not
undertake to bring about particular events or condi­
tions, or particular solutions to our problems—
what
is technically called “outlining.” When you find your­
self in difficulties, you should pray for harmony and
freedom, and expect to get it; but you should not seek
to select the exact arrangement that will come about,
or the course that things will take. If you make up your
mind very firmly that you are going to get a particu­
lar thing, you may, if you have a certain type of men­
tality, bring it about; but this exercise of will power is
almost certain to land you in difficulties—
you will get
your own way, and then you will bitterly regret it.
Yea, yea, and nay, my, stand for what are called in
scientific prayer the Affirmation and the Denial, respec­
tively. These are the Affirmation of Truth and Harmony
and the Omnipresence of God in Reality; and the denial
of any power in error and limitation.
Ye have heard that it hath been said, An eye for an eye,
and a tooth for a tooth:
But I say unto you, That ye resist not evil: but whosoever
shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other
also.
And if any man will sue thee at the law, and take away
'■ hy coat, let him have thy cloke also.
78 The Sermon on the Mount
And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him
twain.
Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would
borrow of thee turn not thou away.
(Matthew V)
Jesus is the most revolutionary of all teachers. He
turns the world upside down for those who accept his
teaching. When once you have accepted the Jesus
Christ Message, nothing is ever the same again. All val­
ues change radically. The things that one spent time
and energy in striving for are felt to be no longer worth
the having, while other things that one passed by on the
way with scarcely a glance, are discovered to be the
only things that really matter. Compared with Jesus,
all the so-called revolutionists, radicals, and reformers of
history are now seen to have been merely scratching the
surface—
rearranging unimportant externals—
whereas
Jesus went down to the root of things and attacked that.
The Old Law, designed to maintain some degree of
order, however rough and ready, among a barbarous
people—
for any kind of law is better than anarchy-
had said an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.
Whatever man did to man, he should himself be made to
suffer by way of punishment. If he killed another, the
law would kill him. If he put out another man’s eye, his
own was put out by the officers of justice. T o whatever
extent he maimed or wounded another, he himself
would be made to suffer too; and this code was better
than none, and perhaps not bad as a beginning. For
barbarous people, unable to appreciate the abstract idea
of tustice, unable to look forward beyond the passion
Resist Not Evil 79
of the moment, without imagination to realize an un-
obvious penalty, this did, no doubt, in most cases fur­
nish an effective check upon primitive instinct. Then,
as time went on, and barbarism gradually passed into a
settled civilization, this primitive code was slowly modi­
fied by public opinion into something at least less obvi»
ously brutal.
This was the case as far as public justice was con­
cerned. In private life, however, the ancient code con­
tinued to hold sway in men’s hearts and minds, even
though they no longer perpetrated actual deeds
of violence; and it is not exaggerating to say that it has
continued to hold sway down to the present hour. The
desire to “get even,” to get one’s own back, to level
things up somehow or other, when we have been hurt
or have suffered injustice, or witnessed things of which
we did not approve, is still with us all—and will remain
with us until the time when we definitely take ourselves
in hand and destroy it. “Revenge,” said Bacon, “is a
kind of wild justice,” and the natural man with the
natural thirst for justice (for true justice is a part of the
Divine Harmony, and all men at every stage seem al­
ways to have some intuitive conception of the Divine
Spiritual Harmony that lies behind appearances) feels
that the proper way to restore a balance is the obvious
one of paying back the delinquent in his own coin.
But this is precisely the deadly fallacy that lies at
the root of all the strife, public and private, in the
world. It is the direct cause of international wars, of
family feuds and personal quarrels, and, as we shall
learn in. the study of Scientific Christianity, it is the
80 The Sermon on the Mount
Resist Not Evil
cause of much, if not most, of our ill health and our
other difficulties. N ow Jesus reverses this and says
that when someone injures you, instead of seeking to
get your own back or to repay him in his own coin,
you are to do the very opposite—
you are to forgive
him, and set him free. No matter what the provoca­
tion may be, and no matter how many times it is re­
peated, you are to do this. You are to loose him and
let him go, for thus only can you be freed yourself—
thus only can you possess your own soul. To return
evil for evil, to answer violence with violence and hate
with hate, is to start a vicious circle to which there is no
ending but the wearing out of your own life and your
brother’s too.
“ Hatred ceases not with hatred,” said the Light of
Asia, enunciating this great Cosmic Truth many cen­
turies before, and the Light of the World put it in the
forefront of his teaching because it is the cornerstone
of man’s salvation.
This doctrine of “resist not evil” is the great meta­
physical secret. T o the world—those who do not under­
stand—
it sounds like moral suicide, the feeblest surren­
der to aggression; but in the light of the Jesus Christ
revelation it is seen to be superb spiritual strategy. An­
tagonize any situation, and you give it power against
yourself; offer mental nonresistance, and it crumbles
away in front of you.
Jesus, as we have seen, is the Master Metaphysician,
concerning himself only with states of consciousness,
with the thoughts and beliefs that men accept; for
these are the things that matter, the things that are
Si
82 The Sermon on the Mount
causative. He gives no instructions for details of ex­
ternal conduct, and so the references here to suing at
law, to coat and cloak, to lending and borrowing, to
turning the other cheek, are illustrative and symbolical
of mental states, and are not to be taken in the narrow
literal sense. This statement is not in any way an en­
deavor to evade or gloss over a difficult text. We cannot
too often remind ourselves that if the thought is right,
the deed cannot be wrong; and that a mere deed under­
taken from an exterior motive is just as likely to be
wrong as right in any particular instance, for there are
simply no complete general rules for right conduct. No
teacher could ever say that a given act must necessarily
be right at any time, because the play of circumstances
in human life is too hopelessly complicated for any such
prediction. Anyone with the slightest experience of the
world knows, for example, that to lend money indis­
criminately to anyone who may ask for it is certainly
not the part of wisdom, certainly not the part of ele­
mentary justice either to oneself or to those who may
be dependent upon one, and that it would, in most
cases, inflict actual injury instead of benefit upon the
would-be borrower. As for turning the other cheek,
literally, for a blow, such a proceeding would be in the
last degree unlikely to do anything but harm to both
parties; and we should note particularly that Jesus, when
he was struck in the room of Pilate, did not do this
himself; on the contrary, he met his enemies with
grave dignity. This instruction about turning the other
cheek refers to the changing of one’s thought when
faced by error, changing from the error to the Truth-
and, as a rule, it acts like magic.
If, when someone is behaving badly, instead of think­
ing of the trouble, you will immediately switch your
attention off from the human to the Divine, and con­
centrate upon God, or upon the Real Spiritual Self of
the person in question, you will find—
if you really do
this—
that his conduct will immediately change. This
is the secret of handling difficult people, and Jesus un­
derstood it thoroughly. If people are troublesome, you
have only to change your thought about them, and
then they will change too, because your own concept
is what you see. This is the true revenge. It has been
tried thousands and thousands, perhaps millions of
times; and it never fails when properly carried out. It
is often quite amusing to see it acting like clock-work.
If somebody comes into the room at home, or into the
office or shop, or anywhere else, looking as if he meant
to make trouble, just try switching your attention
straight off to the Divine, instead of sparring up ag­
gressively to meet the difficulty or shrinking away to
avoid it, according to your temperament. You will be
amused and gratified to see the anger fade away from
the subject’s face (which will mean that it has faded from
his heart too) and quite a different expression take its
place. You may find it helpful in the beginning to glance
away from him while giving yourself this “ treatment,”
but with a little practice you will be able, so to speak, to
look through him to the Truth of Being.
A lady was annoyed by overhearing two men en­
gaged on some repairs outside her window, who, un­
Resist Not Evil 83
aware of her proximity, were indulging in very bad
language. For a moment a tide of anger and contempt
surged up in her mind concerning them, but, remem­
bering this text, she instantly concentrated her attention
upon the Divine Presence which she knew to be within
each of them—as it is within all men. She saluted the
Indwelling Christ in them, to use our modem expression;
and instantaneously the offensive language ceased. She
said it was as though it had been chopped off with a
knife. She must have got a good realization, and in that
case it is certain that both men received a substantial
spiritual uplift, and may even have been permanently
healed of the use of unclean language.
A ll those of us who have been working in Truth for
any length of time could cite many similar cases of
harmony suddenly restored by this simple method of
Jesus—
that of “turning the other cheek.” I have myself
seen several cases where men, and on two occasions
children, were actually fighting, and upon a spectator
“turning the cheek” in this manner, the strife ceased
like magic. Animals respond even more easily to this
treatment than do human beings. I have seen two in­
stances where dogs were fighting savagely and all ef­
forts to separate them had failed, when the realization
of the Presence of God’s love in all His creatures re­
stored peace. In one case it took several minutes’ work;
in the other it was practically instantaneous.
It will sometimes happen that you will find yourself
in company where the conversation is very negative,
sickness and trouble being described and dwelt upon
at great length, or perhaps uncharitable statements
H The Sermon on the Mount
Resist Not Evil
made concerning absent people. For various reasons it
may be difficult for you to withdraw, and if so your
duty is clear—
you must mentally “turn the other cheek”
and thus help both the speakers and their victims.
Let him have thy cloak also, and go with him twain
are dramatic expressions that still further emphasize the
principle of nonresistance in thought to seemingly evil
conditions. Meet the attitude of fellow-men sympa­
thetically as far as you possibly can, concede every
point that is not absolutely essential, and redeem the
remainder with the True Thought or Christ. Never
surrender to error, of course. But it is the sin and not
the sinner that is to be condemned.
Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy
neighbour, and hate thine enemy.
But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that
curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them
which despitefully use you, and persecute you;
That ye may be the children of your Father which is in
heaven: for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the
good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.
For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye?
do not even the publicans the same?
And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than
others? do not even the publicans so?
{Matthew V)
Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do
good to them that hate you, and pray for them that
despitefully use you, and persecute you. “Hatred ceases
not with hatred,” is here again the theme; now Jesus
puts this fundamental truth in such a plain and simple
way that not even the youngest child can misunder­
stand him. Instead of hating him who seems to be your
85
86 The Sermon on the Mount
enemy, as the lower instinct impels man to do, you are
to love him. For curses you are to return blessings, and
hatred you are to reward with good. For those who
actually go to the length of persecuting you, you are
to pray, definitely and specifically. Jesus says it as
plainly and directly as that; and then, in order to meet
everybody on the very simplest level of comprehension,
he adds: “If you return love for love, what is there out
of the ordinary in that?” Nothing, of course, for anyone
would do as much. If you wish to make any real ad­
vance you must do much more. You must get rid of all
sense of resentment and hostility. You must change
your own state of mind until you are conscious only of
harmony and peace within yourself, and have a sense
of positive good-will towards all.
This is not merely the best practical policy, but, for
the reasons upon which the whole Sermon on the
Mount is founded, it is the only policy wherewith you
can make any progress at all. Physical health itself, for
instance, is not in the long run possible without for­
giveness and good-will to everyone, and even your
material prosperity will disappear at last unless your
soul is free from enmity and condemnation. Indeed,
such freedom is the primary requisite for any spiritual
progress at all, and anyone with any spiritual sense easily
recognizes this when once it has been pointed out to
him. Those who have some understanding of what is
called the Spiritual Idea find here a wonderful lesson
in practical spiritual treatment, or scientific prayer.
Quite simply, the Spiritual Idea is the understanding
of the basic fact that good is permanent, omnipresent,
Resist Not Evil
and all-powerful; and evil, a temporary, insubstantial
belief, without character of its own, which is destroyed
by scientific prayer. Thus, what may be called the
secret of spiritual treatment is, not to wrestle with the
error, which only gives it further life and power, but
to destroy it by withdrawing from it just that very
energy of belief that gives it its body. The only exist­
ence it has, is that which you give it by temporarily en­
souling it with your thought. Withdraw this—and it
fades into nothingness. You have thought the error into
existence, consciously or, more often, unconsciously.
Now unthink it. It is always your thinking that matters.
Indeed, as Shakespeare says, “There is nothing either
good or bad but thinking makes it so.” Now, fear,
hatred, and resentment are ideas heavily charged with
emotion, and these, when added to any difficulty, re­
charge it with fresh and vigorous life and make it all
the more difficult to overcome. Again, the mere rehears­
ing in thought of any difficulty endows it with new life.
Going over old grievances mentally; thinking how
badly someone acted at some time, for instance, and re­
calling the details, has the effect of revivifying that
which w'as quietly expiring of neglect.
With a new difficulty of any kind, it is the reception
that you give it mentally, and the attitude that you
adopt towards it in your own thought, that com­
pletely determine its effect upon you. That is what
matters. What matters to you, truly, is not people or
things or conditions in themselves, but the thoughts and
beliefs that you hold concerning them. It is not the con­
duct of others, but your own thoughts that make or
87
88 The Sermon ore the Mount
mar you. You write your own history for tomorrow
and for next year by the thoughts that you entertain
today. You mould your own life destiny day by day,
entirely by the manner in which you react mentally
to experience as it comes. Right reaction is the supreme
art of life, and Jesus compressed the secret of that art
into a sentence when he said: Resist not evil.
Resist not evil, spiritually understood, is the grand
secret of success in life. A correct understanding of this
commandment will lead you out of the Land of Egypt,
and out of the House of Bondage; regenerate your
body; liberate your soul; and, in short, remake your life
from top to bottom. As soon as you resist mentally any
undesirable or unwanted circumstance, you thereby en-
dow it with more power—
power which it will use
against you, and you will have depleted your own re­
sources to that exact extent. Whether you have to meet
a physical, or a personal, or a business difficulty, you
must not, as people usually do, hurl yourself against it
mentally, or even stand stubbornly in the middle of the
road saying, “You shall not pass” ; but, observe the
master rule of Jesus, and resist not evil. Refrain from re­
sisting the trouble mentally; that is to say, refuse to feed
your own soul-substance into it. Feel out, mentally, for
the Presence of God, as you would feel out physically if
thrust suddenly into a dark room. Hold your thought
steadily to that Presence as being with you, and as being
also in the person or the place where the evil has pre­
sented itself; that is to say, turn the other cheek. If you
will do this, the difficulty, whatever it is, the undesirable
situation or the trouble that someone is making, will
Resist Not Evil
fade away into its native nothingness, and leave you
free. This is the true spiritual method of loving your
enemy.
Love is God and is therefore absolutely all powerful.
This is the scientific application of Love, against which
nothing evil can stand. It destroys the evil condition and,
if a person is concerned, it sets him as well as you free.
But to return hate for hate, curse for curse, or fear for
aggression, has the effect of amplifying the trouble,
much as a feeble sound is multiplied in volume by an
amplifier. Meeting hatred with Love in the scientific
way is the Royal Christ Road to freedom. This is the
perfect method of self-defense in all circumstances. It
renders you absolutely invulnerable to any kind of
attack.
If someone makes himself personally obnoxious to
you, do not resist him in thought. Resist not evil; realize
the Indwelling Christ in your “enemy,” and all will be
well. He will cease to trouble you, and either change
his attitude or else fade out of your life altogether, be­
sides being spiritually benefited by your action. If you
receive bad news, do not resist it in thought. Realize
the unchanging nature and infinite harmony of Good
ever available, at every point of existence; and things
will come right. If you are unhappy in your work, or in
your home, do not resist these conditions mentally, or
indulge in grumbling, or self-pity, or in recriminations
of any kind. Such action will only strengthen that par­
ticular embodiment of error; so, resist not evil. Feel out
mentally for the Presence of Divine Spirit, all around
you; affirm its actuality; and claim that you have do­
89
The Sermon on tht Mount
90
minion over all conditions when you speak the Word in
the name of I Am That I Am, and you will soon be free.
Loving your enemies in this scientific way is also the
key to bodily health, without which it is impossible to
possess it. The secret of physical well-being lies in the
realization of Divine Life and Divine Love. All physical
improvement follows upon this; it does not precede it.
Today much is made of the influence of the glands on
our bodily health, but our glands themselves are, all of
them, governed entirely by our emotions, and thus the
way to adjust and regulate the glands is by the cultiva­
tion of right feeling. Of course, this must be made to
include subconscious feelings, and that can only be done
by treatment.
Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in
heaven is perfect.
(Matthew V)
This command of Jesus is one of the most tremen­
dous things in the whole Bible. Consider carefully what
it is that he is saying. He is commanding us to be per­
fect, even as God Himself is perfect; and, as we know
that Jesus will not command the impossible, he has here
given his authority to the doctrine that it is possible
for man to become Divinely perfect. And, more than
this, he is putting it forward as a thing that will have
to be actually done. W e see, therefore, from this that
man cannot possibly be the miserable, hopeless, disin­
herited child of perdition that theology has too often
represented him to be; but that he is even the very
offspring of God—our Father which is in Heaven—and
Resist Not Evil
potentially Divine and perfect. As Jesus elsewhere puts
it, quoting the ancient scripture: “ I said, ye are gods;
and all of you sons of the Most High.” He then added
by way of emphasis: “ and the scripture cannot be
broken.”
Now, if we really are the children of God, capable
of eternal and flawless perfection, there can be no real
power in evil, not even in sin, to keep us permanently
in bondage. That is to say, with the right method of
working, it can be only a matter of time before we
assume our true condition of spiritual salvation; so now
let us lose no further time before commencing our up­
ward march. Let us now—at this very moment, if we
have not already done so—
rise up, like the prodigal
son amid the husks of materiality and limitation, and
cry, with all confidence in the teachings and promises of
Jesus: “ I will arise and go unto my Father.”
Those who may be discouraged by a sense of their
own unworthiness, or lack of understanding, and feel
themselves to be indeed “a great way off,” should
recollect that all the Great Spiritual Teachers have
agreed that there is such a thing as “ taking the King­
dom of Heaven by storm.”
91
Chapter V
T R E A SU R E IN H EA V EN
Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be
seen of them: otherwise ye have no reward of your Father
which is in heaven.
Therefore when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a
trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues
and in the streets, that they may have glory of men. Verily I
say unto you, They have their reward.
But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know
what thy right hand doeth:
That thine alms may be in secret: and thy Father which
seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly.
And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites
are: for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and
in the comers of the streets, that they may be seen of men.
Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.
But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and
when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is
in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward
thee openly.
But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen
do: for they think that they shall be heard for their much
speaking.
Be not ye therefore like unto them: for your Father know-
eth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him.
(Matthew VI)
T
h e heart of this section of the Sermon is con­
tained in verses 6 and 7, particularly the clause:
Cray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Fathe?
92
Treasure in Heaven
which seeth in secret shall reward, thee openly. The doc­
trine of the “Secret Place” and its importance as the
controlling center of the “ Kingdom,” is the essential
factor of the Jesns Christ teaching.
Man is the ruler of a kingdom, although in most cases
he knows it not. That kingdom is nothing less than the
world of his own life and experience. The Bible is full
of stories of kings and their kingdoms; of wise kings and
foolish kings; of wicked kings and righteous kings; of
victorious kings and defeated kings; of the rise and fall of
kingdoms from every sort of cause. Jesus, in his parabolic
teaching, will often take the same idea and use it as a
simile. “There was a great king . . .” he often begins.
Now each of these kings is really Everyman, studied in
the various aspects of his mental outlook. The Bible is
the book of Everyman. It is primarily a textbook of
metaphysics, a manual of the soul’s development, and
everything in the Bible, from Genesis to Revelation, is
really concerned with that development; that is to say,
the spiritual awakening of the individual. You and your
problems are analyzed from every possible angle, and
the fundamental lessons of Spiritual Truth are put for­
ward in all sorts of different ways to meet every condi­
tion, and every need, and almost every mood of human
nature. Sometimes you are a king; sometimes you are a
fisherman; sometimes a gardener, a weaver, a potter, a
merchant, a High Priest, a Captain of Hosts, or a beggar.
It is as a king, the absolute ruler of his own kingdom,
that the Sermon on the Mount considers you; for this,
after all, is the most complete of all the similes. When
you know the Truth of Being, you are, as a literal fact
93
The Sermon on the Mount
5
>
4
and not merely in a rhetorical sense, the absolute mon­
arch of your own life. You make your own conditions,
and you can unmake them. You make and unmake your
own health. You attract to yourself certain kinds of
people and certain conditions—
and others you repel.
You attract to yourself riches or poverty, and peace of
mind or fear—
entirely in accordance with the way in
which you govern your kingdom. Of course, the world
does not know this. It supposes that the conditions of
one’s life are largely made for him by outer circum­
stances, and by other people. It believes that one is at all
times liable to unforeseen and unexpected accidents of
one sort or another, any one of which may seriously in­
convenience or even completely ruin his scheme of life.
But the Truth of Being is just the contrary of all this,
and, since mankind has nearly always believed the false
version, we cannot wonder that history has been so full
of mistakes and suffering and trouble.
Nothing but misfortune and confusion could possibly
follow from the endeavor to conduct any business on
false principles, or to carry out a train of reasoning from
a series of erroneous premises—and this is naturally
what has happened. Man has suffered because he has
been deceived about the nature of life and of himself;
and that is why Jesus—
the Saviour of the world—
said:
“Know the Truth, and the Truth shall make you free.”
That was why he spent the years of his public life in
teaching and explaining the Truth; telling us about God
and man, and instructing us how to live.
If it is true, as it is, that our difficulties arise from our
own wrong thinking, in the present and in the past, it
Treasure in Heaven
may well be asked, considering the sublime level of
consciousness to which Jesus had attained: W hy did he
have to meet difficulties from time to time—
notably his
terrible conflict with fear at Gethsemane, and his death
upon the cross?
The answer is, that the case of Jesus was quite differ­
ent from that of anyone else, because he suffered, not
for his own wrong thinking, but for ours. Owing to
his high degree of understanding, he could easily have
gone away and transcended quietly, without any suf­
fering, as Moses and Elijah, for instance, had done be­
fore him. But he deliberately chose to undertake his
awful task in order to help mankind; and he is therefore
justly entitled the Saviour of the World.
N ow we come to consider this kingdom a little more
in detail, and we find that the King’s Palace, the office
of government, so to say, is nothing less than your own
consciousness—your own mentality. This is your very
own private cabinet, and the business transacted there
is the swirl of thoughts that continually pass across your
mind. The “Secret Place of the Most High,” the
Psalmist calls it, and it is secret because no one but
yourself knows what goes on therein. There is privacy,
and there is dominion. You have the power to think
what thoughts you like. You can choose which thoughts
you will accept and which you will reject. You are
master there. Whatever thoughts you do elect to dwell
upon will presently be expressed in the outer physical
world as things and events—
but that is your look-out.
Having thought certain thoughts, you have no power
to change the outer consequences of these thoughts.
9 5
The Sermon on the Mount
96
Your choice lies in thinking or not thinking them in
the first place. If you do not wish certain consequences
to come to you, your business is to abstain from think­
ing them in the first place, or from thinking the kind of
thoughts that will ultimate in them. If you do not want
an engine to start, you do not open the valve; if you
do not want a bell to ring, you do not press the button;
and so, if you really understand this fundamental prin­
ciple, you will from now onwards watch your habitual
thinking with the utmost care.
Since it is true that the kind of thoughts that you
hold in consciousness (the Secret Place) are presently
going to be expressed in your outer life, in your body
and affairs, you will no more think of holding inhar­
monious thoughts than you would think of eating or
drinking something which was certain to make you very
ill. Remember that whatever the mind dwells upon will
sooner or later come into your experience. It does
not at all follow that the particular thing you were think­
ing will be exactly what will happen—although some­
times it does. For instance, if you think very much about
disease, you are tending to undermine your health;
if you think much about poverty and trade depression,
you are tending to bring poverty upon yourself; and if
you think about trouble, and strife, and dishonesty, you
attract those. The actual thing that occurs in any given
instance will not commonly be the precise reproduction
of any particular train of thought, but rather the re­
sultant of the combined action of that train of thought
and of your general mental attitude.
Thinking about sickness or disease is only one of the
Treasure in Heaven
two factors that produce bodily ailments, and it is
usually the less important. The other, and more im­
portant factor, is the entertainment of negative or de­
structive emotions, although this fact seems to be very
little understood, even among students of metaphysics.
So important is it, however, that it is simply impossible
to insist too strongly upon the fact that most bodily ail­
ments are caused by the patient’s allowing destructive
emotions to hold a place in his mind. It cannot be too
often repeated that to entertain feelings of anger, re­
sentment, jealousy, spite, and so forth, is certain to
damage your health in some way or other, and quite
likely to damage it very severely indeed. Remember
that the question of the justification or otherwise for
such feelings does not arise at all. It has absolutely noth­
ing to do with the results, for the thing is a matter of
natural law.
A woman said: “ I have a right to be angry,” meaning
that she had been the victim of very shabby treatment,
and that she consequently possessed a kind of license or
special permit to hold angry feelings without their nat­
ural consequences upon the body following. This, of
course, is absurd. There is no one to give such a permit,
and if it could be done—
if general laws could ever be
set aside in special instances—
we should have, not a
universe, but a chaos. If you press the button, from no
matter what motive, good or bad—to save a man’s life
or to murder him—
the electric bell will ring; because
that is the law of electricity. If you drank a deadly
poison inadvertently, you would die or at least seriously
damage your body, because such is the law. You may
97
The Sermon on the Mount
98
have mistakenly supposed it to be a harmless fluid,
but that would make no difference because the law takes
no account of intentions. For the same reason, to enter­
tain negative emotions is to order trouble—primarily
physical trouble, and also trouble in general—quite in­
dependently of any seeming justification which you may
suppose yourself to have.
I once came across an old sermon which was deliv­
ered in London during the French Revolution. The
author, who took an extremely superficial view of the
Gospel, said, referring to the Sermon on the Mount:
“ Surely it is justifiable to hate the Arch-Butcher, Robes­
pierre, and to execrate the Bristol murderer.” This pro­
nouncement perfectly illustrates the fallacy which
we have been considering. T o entertain hatred is ipso
facto to involve yourself in certain unpleasant results
and, as far as you are concerned, it will not make the
faintest shadow of difference whether you are attaching
the label “Robespierre,” or Tom, or Dick, or Harry, to
the emotion concerned. The question whether the man
Robespierre was, in fact, a demon or an angel of
light, has nothing whatever to do with the matter.
To indulge in a sense of execration of anyone (quite
irrespective of any question of deserts, or otherwise, in
the object of your condemnation) is certain to bring
trouble upon your own head proportionate to the
intensity of the feeling you entertain, and the number
of times or minutes that you devote to it. No Scientific
Christian ever considers hatred or execration to be
“ justifiable” in any circumstances, but whatever your
opinion about that may be, there is no question about
its practical consequences to you. You might just as well
swallow a dose of prussic acid in two gulps, and think
to protect yourself by saying, “This one is for Robes­
pierre; and this one for the Bristol murderer.” You will
hardly have any doubt as to who will receive the bene­
fit of the poison.
It is very significant that Jesus should call your con­
sciousness the Secret Place. He desires, as always, to im­
press us with the truth that it is the inner that causes
the outer, and not the outer that brings about the condi­
tion of the inner. Neither does one outer thing ever
cause another outer thing. Cause and effect are from the
within to the without. This all-embracing Master Law
is not difficult to grasp in theory when once it has been
clearly enunciated. In practice, however, it is extraor­
dinarily difficult to avoid losing sight of it in the rush
and tumble of everyday life. W e are so constituted that
we can give our conscious attention to only one thing at
a time, and when we are not deliberately attending to
the observance of this law, when the interest in what we
are doing or saying monopolizes our attention, our al­
ready formed thought-habits are sure to determine the
tenor of our thinking. W e constantly forget the Master
Law in practice until we have drilled ourselves into its
observance with the utmost care. Meanwhile, as long as
we go on breaking the law, even though it be in forget­
fulness, we shall continue to incur punishment.
It is obvious from this that nothing is worth while,
nothing has any real significance, but a change of policy
in the Secret Place. Think rightly, and sooner or latei
all will be well on the outside. Rest content with change
Treasure in Heaven 99
in the outer observance without also changing your
thoughts and feelings, and you not only waste your
time, but you may easily lull yourself into a false sense
of security, and live in a fool’s paradise. You are also ex­
tremely likely to fall into the sin of hypocrisy.
From time immemorial mankind has cherished the
pathetic illusion that outward acts, which are so easy,
can be made to take the place of an interior change
in thought and feeling, which is so difficult. It is so easy
to buy and wear ceremonial garments, to repeat set
prayers by rote at certain times, to use stereotyped
forms of devotion, to attend religious services at pre­
scribed periods—and to leave the heart unchanged. The
phylacteries of the Pharisees took but a moment to
fasten on; but the cleansing of the heart takes hours and
years of earnest prayer and self-discipline. A dis­
tinguished Quaker some years ago said: “In my youth
we discontinued the distinctive Quaker costume and
certain other usages, because we realized that people
who were far from really caring for our Quaker ideals
were joining us, nevertheless, for the sake of the edu­
cational facilities they could obtain so inexpensively for
their children, as well as other advantages of our mem­
bership. It was so easy to style oneself a ‘Friend,’ to
purchase and wear a coat without buttons or collar, and
to interlard the conversation with a grammatical pecu­
liarity, while leaving the character completely un­
touched.”
The Quakers are not the only people who have had
to meet this problem. This danger was really the rock
upon which Puritanism was ultimately wrecked. The
ioo The Sermon on the Mount
Puritans came at last to insist upon an outer conformity
in all sorts of inessential points, attaching civil and
sometimes criminal penalties to their neglect. Even in
matters to which no statute can well be applied, it came
to be understood that a certain deportment, a style in
dressing, the liberal use of an artificial phraseology, such
practices as saddling one’s children with outlandish Old
Testament names, would be so many passports to pre­
ferment in civil, ecclesiastical and often commerciallife—
as though such trifles could have any spiritual value in
themselves, and were not, in reality, merely the simplest
way of making an easy path for spiritual pride and
blatant hypocrisy. It is unquestionable that the spirit­
ualization of thought does, in practice, undoubtedly lead
the student to simplify his mode of life, for so many
things that previously seemed important are now found
to be unimportant and uninteresting. It is unquestionable
too, that he gradually finds himself meeting different
people, reading different books, spending his time dif­
ferently; and that his conversation naturally changes
its quality too. “ Old things are passed away.” “Behold
I make all things new.” These things follow upon the
change of heart; never can they precede it.
N ow we see how vain is the foolish attempt to ac­
quire popularity, or to cultivate the good opinion of
other people under the impression that such a thing
can be of any real advantage to us. Those who listened
to the Sermon on the Mount had often seen the baser
elements among the Pharisees performing good works
in the most ostentatious way, in order to win the
reputation of being exceptionally orthodox and saintly,
Treasure in Heaven ioi
and probably with a muddled impression that they
were actually advancing their spiritual welfare as well.
Jesus has analyzed and exposed that kind of fallacy
once and for all in this section. He says that the
applause that follows upon outer acts is the only re­
ward they ever bring, and that results worth while
are only to be obtained in the Secret Place of Con­
sciousness where, if we pray (scientifically) to our
Father in secret, He will reward us openly with a
genuine demonstration.
Jesus here also lays stress upon the need for keep­
ing our prayers “alive.” Merely to repeat a phrase
mechanically as a parrot does (vain repetitions) is of
no use at ail. When praying, one should be constantly
“ feeling out,” making himself receptive (not negative
but receptive) to Divine inspiration. There is no ob­
jection to repeating a helpful phrase constantly, even
without any realization at all, provided it does not be­
come mechanical. Jesus himself repeated his words
three times at the moment of his dire need in the
garden {Matt. 26:44). If ever you feel that you are
getting “water-logged” in your prayers, stop, go away
and do something else, and return later on with a fresh
mind.
Your Father knovoeth what things ye have need of
before ye ask him. We do not have to create good,
for it already exists eternally in the fact of the Omni­
presence of God. Nevertheless, we have to bring it
into manifestation through our own personal realiza­
tion of Truth. This text does not mean that we are
Dot to pray concerning particular needs or particular
102 The Sermon on the Mount
Treasure in Heaven io?
problems. Some people have interpreted it in the sense
that we should work only for general harmony, but
this is incorrect. If you treat only for general harmony,
the results of your work will be spread over every
department of your life, and the improvement in any
particular detail may be so small as to be negligible.
The proper course is to concentrate your prayers
upon whatever you wish to demonstrate at the mo­
ment.
W e do not pray for a thing as an object in itself, it
is true; but when we experience a lack, whether, let
us say, it be money, or a position, or a house, or a
friend, we treat ourselves—
the soul—
concerning that
sense of lack, and, when we have prayed enough to
correct our understanding upon that point, the thing
we are needing will appear as a proof that the work
has been done. Satisfy the sense of lack within yourself
with a sense of Divine Love, and the missing thing
will appear in your life of its own accord. When you
say your prayers, never be afraid of being too definite,
precise, and business-like. Jesus himself was all these
things. No one was ever less vague or indefinite than
he was.
After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father which art
in heaven, Hallowed be thy name.
Th y kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in
heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.
And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil;
For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for
ever. Amen.
For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly
Father will forgive you:
But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your
Father forgive your trespasses.
(Matthew VI)
This, greatest of all prayers, which we commonly
call the Lord’s Prayer, is, in fact, a superb summing
up of the whole Jesus Christ teaching, in a form un­
equalled for brevity and completeness. It is really
nothing less than a complete outline of Christian meta­
physics, and, as the author of this book has already
dealt with it at considerable length in a brochure en­
titled “The Lord’s Prayer,” there is no need to cover
the same ground again here.
Suffice it to say that in these few verses it defines
the nature of God and of man, and explains the true
relationship between them, tells us what the universe
really is, and provides a method of rapid spiritual de­
velopment for those who use it intelligently every day.
Note particularly how strongly Jesus insists upon
the need for forgiveness if we are to make any spiritual
progress at all.
Moreover when ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a
sad countenance: for they disfigure their faces, that they may
appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, They have
their reward.
But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash
thy face;
That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy
Father which is in secret: and thy Father, which seeth in
secret, shall reward thee openly.
io4 7Te Sermon on the Mount
LMattheiv VI)
Treasure in Heaven
Fasting was the general custom among the people in
those days, and Jesus takes the practice for granted.
Fasting, as we understand it in Scientific Christianity, is
the abstention from certain thoughts, chiefly negative or
error thoughts, of course; but in some cases it is necessary,
if you want a demonstration to abstain for a time from
thinking about a particular problem at all. There are
certain problems, usually those that you have been
mulling over too much, that go out or are overcome
“ only by prayer and fasting.” In such a case it is best to
give the problem a definite and final treatment, and then
to leave it alone, for a time; or else hand it over bodily
to someone else to handle for you, after which you keep
your thoughts completely away from it.
Physical fasting has occasionally been found helpful
in the overcoming of a problem, especially what is
called a “chronic” difficulty, when accompanied, of
course, by a spiritual treatment. This is chiefly owing
to the high degree of concentration that goes with a
physical fast.
Note that verse 18 is substantially a repetition of
verse 6. When the Bible repeats itself in this manner,
it is an indication that a point of prime importance is
being dealt with.
Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where
moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through
and steal:
But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where
neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not
break through nor steal:
For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
105
The light of the body is the eye: if therefore thine eye be
single, thy whole body shall be full of light.
But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of
darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness,
how great is that darkness!
(Matthew VI)
Having dwelt upon the nature of the Secret Place,
and given Prayer, or Divine Realization, as the Key
of Life, Jesus goes on to stress certain consequences
that follow upon all this, with the object of showing
us how we must, as speedily as possible, recast our
whole lives in accordance with the new basis. For
example, now that we understand that the material
plane is only objectified thought, we should realize the
folly of collecting or trying to collect large sums of
money or goods, or material property of any kind.
If your consciousness is right, that is, if you have a
good understanding of God as the loving Source of
your boundless supply, you will always be able to
demonstrate whatever money or goods you may re-
quire, wherever you are, or whatever your conditions
may be. You cannot want for anything when once
you truly realize that in Divine Mind demand and
supply are one. And, on the contrary, until you do
realize this, you never will be really safe from want.
You may, indeed, acquire a very large share of the
world’s goods in the way of bank balance, stocks and
bonds, real estate, or what-not; but unless you have
attained enough spiritual understanding, these things
are more likely than not sooner or later to take unto
themselves wings and fly away. In fact, there is no
toó The Sermon on the Mount
way in which one can have security without spiritual
understanding.
The “safest” banks can and do fail; unforeseen
catastrophes happen on the stock market; mines and
oil wells give out or may be destroyed by some natural
cataclysm; a new invention may easily ruin an old one;
the opening or closing of a railroad station, or the start­
ing of some new enterprise somewhere else, may ruin
the value of your real estate; to say nothing of the
unpredictable effect of unexpected political upheavals
upon every kind of property. In short, it is waste of
time to give too much attention to collecting material
possessions which are so vulnerable to changes and
chances, to “moth and rust,” and thieves.
If a reasonable part of the time and attention that
most people spend in the pursuit of material goods
were devoted by them to scientific prayer and medita-
:ion, the change in consciousness which would follow
would put them beyond any possibility of suffering
from any of these hazards.
If you had sufficient spiritual understanding of supply,
your investments probably would not go wrong; but
if they did, your losses would be immediately replaced
in some other way, and before you had time to suffer
from them. If, let us say, the bank in which your
fortune was deposited should stop payment on Mon­
day, then, probably before the end of the week, an
equivalent sum of money, or at least as much as you
could possibly need, would come to you from some­
where else—
if you had sufficient spiritual understand­
ing. In any case, the owner of a prosperity conscious­
Treasure in Heaven 107
ness cannot be impoverished; nor, for the matter ol
that, can the owner of a poverty consciousness be per­
manently enriched.
In the long run, no one can retain what does not
belong to him by right of consciousness, nor be de­
prived of that which is truly his by the same supreme
title.
Therefore, you will do well not to lay up to yourself
treasures upon earth, but rather to lay up treasure in
heaven; that is, the understanding of Spiritual Law. If
you are looking to outer, passing, mutable things for
either happiness or security, you are not putting God
first. If you are putting God first in your life, you will
not find yourself laboring under undue anxiety about
anything, for where your treasure is, there will your
heart be also.
Pursuing the same train of ideas in greater detail,
Jesus goes on to say that those who are upon the new
basis are to be free from all sorts of petty anxieties
and worrying details which continue to afflict those who
are not. Questions of diet, for instance, will settle them­
selves if one is thinking rightly. A follower of the new
life does not need to watch every bite that he puts into
his mouth, until eating becomes a burden. He eats nat­
urally and spontaneously of the ordinary food that
comes along, knowing that his habitual right thought
will take care of his diet too. If he had been accus­
tomed to eating more than was good for him, the fact that
he now prays every day for wisdom and guidance in
general would lead to his eating less; or, if he should
not be eating enough, then scientific daily prayer would
ro8 The Sermon on the Mount
cause him to eat more until the right quantity was
reached.
The same principle applies to all the details of every­
day living. If you pray for yourself in the right way
every day, you will find that the minor things of life
will gradually fall correctly into place of their own ac­
cord without any trouble on your part. Contrast this
with the usual method of trying to get everything right
by separately organizing a thousand petty details, and
you will appreciate how wonderfully the new spiritual
basis sets you free. If thine eye be single, thy whole
body shall be full of light. This is the summation of
all Truth. Verily, if the eye be single, the whole body
of experience shall be full of light.
The eye symbolizes spiritual perception. Whatever you
give your attention to, is the thing that governs your
life. Attention is the key. Your free will lies in the
directing of your attention. Whatever you steadfastly
direct your attention to, will come into your life and
dominate it. If you do not direct your attention con­
sistently to anything in particular—and many people
do not—
then nothing in particular will come into
your life except uncertainty and suspense; you will
be like a drifting log. If you direct your attention to
the outer world of manifestation, which is in its nature
continually shifting and changing, you are bound to
have unhappiness, poverty, and ill-health; whereas, if
you direct your attention to God; if the Glory of God
comes first with you, and to express His Will becomes
the rule of your life, then your eye is single and your
whole body, or embodiment, will be full of light.
Treasure in Heaven ¿09
n o The Sermon on the Mount
N o man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the
one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and
despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.
Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life,
v hat ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your
body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat,
and the body than raiment?
Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither do
they reap, nor gather into bams; yet your heavenly Father
feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they?
Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto
his stature?
And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies
of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they
spin:
And yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his
glory was not arrayed like one of these.
Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which
to day is, and to morrow is cast into the oven, shall he not
much more clothe you, O ye of little faith?
Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? or,
What shall we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed?
(For after all these things do the Gentiles seek:) for your
heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these
things.
But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteous­
ness; and all these things shall be added unto you.
(Matthew VI)
Many Christians have accepted these facts theoreti­
cally, but have been less than half-hearted when it
came to their practical application, and this vacillation
has landed them in the mass of difficulties that always
follow upon inconsistency and weakness. It is found
that those who are altogether upon the material basis
have, on the whole, a better time, for they are
at least living in accordance with the best that they
know, and playing the game as they understand it,
Treasure in Heaven 111
To try to rest sometimes upon one basis, and some­
times upon the other, is to try to serve two masters.
and this of course cannot be done. Ye cannot serve
God and mammon.
Aian is essentially spiritual, the image and likeness
of God, and therefore he is made for the Spiritual
Basis, and he cannot really succeed on any other. The
birds of the air and the lilies of the field furnish a
striking lesson to man in their complete adaptation to
the laws of their own respective planes. They thor-
oughly express their own true natures; they go through
their lives perfectly themselves, and without know­
ing anything like the worry and anxiety that warp
so many human lives. The lilies referred to are the
beautiful wild poppies of the East, and whoever has
seen a field of poppies dancing and swaying in the
breeze will appreciate the sense of relaxation and free­
dom and joy that Jesus had in mind as being our true
birthright.
Of course, he did not mean that you as a human
being are to copy the lives or the methods of the birds
or flowers literally, for you are infinitely higher in the
scale of creation than they are. The lesson is that you
are to adapt yourself as completely to your element
as they do to theirs. Your true element is the Presence
of God. Augustine said: “ Thou hast made us for T hy­
self, and our hearts are restless until they repose in
Thee.” When man accepts the Truth that in God he
lives and moves and has his being, as completely and
unquestioningly as the birds and the flowers accept the
truth of their condition, he will demonstrate as easily
and as thoroughly as they do.
If anyone were so foolish as to take these beautiful
similes literally, instead of spiritually, and should, let
us say, lie down in a field among the poppies waiting
for God to perform a dramatic miracle on his behalf,
he would speedily learn by experience that this is not
the way. Possessing faculties infinitely above the veg­
etable or the animal kingdoms, he will truly emulate
the wisdom and the glory of these by being ceaselessly
active in his own realm, that of prayer and meditation.
The Spiritual Basis does not mean laissez faire-, it means
intensified activity, but on the spiritual as distinct from
the material plane. This is the only way in which one
can be said to be seeking first the Kingdom of Heaven;
and all needful things will be found to follow upon
that.
If you are very worried and confused or very much
discouraged, that is the time to lie down among the
poppies mentally, and read the Bible or pray gently
but persistently until something happens; either some­
thing within yourself or something in the outer picture.
This is not laissez -faire, because you are praying. A
woman in London, whose affairs seemed to have got
into a hopeless tangle that meant utter ruin, was per­
suaded by me to drop the whole burden mentally and
“ let the worst happen,” while she spent two or three
days browsing through the Bible and praying for peace
and happiness. Everything cleared up like magic within
a week without her having taken any material action.
The normal mode of obtaining one’s supply is by
1 12 The Sermon on the Mount
Treasure in Heaven
following some useful business or profession in which
one should be happy and satisfied, doing good work
and receiving a liberal compensation for it. Scientific
prayer will put anyone into such a position if he does
not already possess it, and then if be prays each day
as he should, realizing true place, and claiming oppor­
tunities for service, bis actual position, whatever it is,
will be continually improving as time goes on. Of
course this does not mean that one need necessarily
“go out to business,” as it is called. The womail taking
care of her household duties at home is just as useful
a citizen as anyone in the land; and many people whose
private incomes put them beyond the need of earning
money, lead lives of the highest usefulness in devel­
oping literature and art, and in other activities. What
is certain is that no one upon the Spiritual Basis will
lead the life of an idler, however much money he may
have.
One hears occasionally of curious cases of people
who claim to be so spiritual that they do not feel called
upon to earn their own living. Someone else, a rela­
tive, or a friend, who is not too spiritual to go to
work, is expected to keep them in idleness. But this
attitude of mind speaks for itself. If your understand­
ing of metaphysics is sufficient to enable you to dispense
with ordinary work, you will find yourself auto­
matically supplied, and in an independent and self-
respecting manner, with a good living. This cannot pos­
sibly apply to people wbo are in debt or sponging
upon 6tbers. If you really wish to try the experiment
of “stepping out” upon the power of the Word, by all
113
means do so; but be sure that your so doing is authen­
tic. The only way to make this experiment in a genuine
manner is to let it be “ demonstrate or starve.” If you
are secretly looking to someone else to come to the
rescue, you are not really depending upon the Word.
Every Scientific Christian is entitled to reasonable pros­
perity, which means enough to live on in decent com­
fort and reasonable security. Until you can demon­
strate this genuinely by the power of the Word alone,
you should use your treatment to find a position and
to make it a success.
Jesus tells us in this section that by taking thought
we cannot add one cubit to our stature. This is one
more way of stating the great truth that he states in
so many ways; namely, that we have to be born again.
As long as you remain the man that you are, you
cannot by merely taking thought be or do anything
except what you are (because, of course, you always
do what you are); you can only “get anywhere” as
they say, by becoming a different man, and this you
can only do by getting some realization of the Presence
of God.
Take therefore no thought for the morrow: for the mor­
row shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient
unto the day is the evil thereof.
(Matthew VI)
In scientific prayer we usually work in the present
tense. The whole idea of scientific prayer is to adjust
one’s consciousness, and this must necessarily be done
in the present—“ Behold now is the accepted time.
Behold now is the day of salvation.” When a problem
1 14 The Sermon on the Mount
Treasure in Heaven
concerning your future presents itself to you, as, for
example: suppose that you have to sit for an examina­
tion in six months’ time, or to take a voyage which
you dread, perhaps next week—
the right thing is to
pray about it now, in the present tense. Do not wait
until the time comes, but work on it now; that is, work
on your own consciousness concerning it, and in the
present tense. Do not try, as it were, to throw your
treatment forward. This cannot be done successfully.
The event may be a future one, but the very fact that
you are thinking of it at all means that it is present
in consciousness; and as the thought is a present one,
it can and must be dealt with in the present tense. In
the same way you can treat about past events, and
you should do so if they still worry you, by treating
about them in the present tense—because the thought
of them is present. Treat for past and future events
alike as though the incident were going on at the present
moment. Remember that God is outside of what we
call time, and the beautiful healing action of His Holy
Presence is just as applicable to one date as to another.
Always remember that the only thought that you
need to concern yourself with is the present one. The
thoughts of yesterday or of last year do not matter
now, because if you can get the present thought right
it will make everything else right here and now. The
best way to prepare for tomorrow is to make today’s
consciousness serene and harmonious. All other good
things will follow upon that.
Never go delving into your mind to look for troubles
to pray or treat about. Deal faithfully with those that
l l 5
bring themselves to your attention, and hidden things
will be taken care of.
In the same spirit, Scientific Christianity discourages
too much consideration of the next plane, and of after­
death conditions. Such preoccupations are too often but
a flight from the realities of this life and of everyday
problems that should be faced and solved here—
not
evaded or, what is the same thing, postponed in thought.
W e are to dwell upon Life, and not death, and to
concentrate upon making our demonstration here and
now.
no The Sermon on the Mount
Chapter VI
W IT H W H A T M EA SU R E Y E M ET E
Judge not, that ye be not judged.
For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged: and
with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you
again.
And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother’s
eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?
Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the
mote out of thine eye; and, behold, a beam is in thine own
eye?
Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own
eye; and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote out
of thy brother’s eye.
(Matthew VII)
T
h is section of the Sermon on the Mount consists of
five short verses, and only about one hundred
words, and yet it is hardly too much to say that at
its simple face value it is the most staggering document
ever presented to mankind. In these five verses we are
told more about the nature of man and the meaning of
life, and the importance of conduct, and the art of liv­
ing, and the secret of happiness and success, and the
way out of trouble, and the approach to God, and the
emancipation of the soul, and the salvation of the world,
than all the philosophers and the theologians and the
savants put together have told us—
for it explains the
The Sermon on the Mount
«18
Great Law. It is vastly more important that a man, and
still more that a child, should be taught the meaning of
these five verses than that he should learn anything else
that is taught in schools or colleges. There is nothing to
be found in any of the ordinary courses of study; there
is nothing to be learned in any library, or in any labora­
tory that is one-millionth part as important as the infor­
mation contained herein. If it were ever possible to jus­
tify the fanatical saying: “Bum the rest of the books,
for it is all in this one,” it would be in reference to those
words.
Judge not that ye be not judged. For with what
judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged: and with what
measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.
If the average man understood for a single moment the
meaning of these words, and really believed them to be
true, they would immediately revolutionize his whole
life from top to bottom; turn his everyday conduct in­
side out, and so change him that, in a comparatively
short space of time, his closest friends would hardly
know him. Whether he were the Prime Minister in the
Cabinet or the man in the street, this understanding
would turn the world upside down for him, and, be­
cause the thing is infectious beyond computing, it would
turn the world upside down for many, many others as
well.
Again and again we are struck with amazement, upon
re-reading this Sermon on the Mount with a fresh mind,
to find how completely its most challenging statements
have been quietly ignored in practice by the bulk of the
Christian world. If one did not know for a fact that
these words are constantly heard in public, and read in
private, by millions and millions of Christians of all
sorts, he could hardly believe it to be possible; for the
truths which they teach seem to be the last consideration
to enter into people’s motives in everyday life and con­
duct—and yet they express the simple and inescapable
Law of Life.
The plain fact is that it is the Law of Life that, as we
think, and speak, and act towards others, so will others
think, and speak, and act towards us. Whatever sort of
conduct we give out, that we are inevitably bound to
get back. Anything and everything that we do to others
will sooner or later be done to us by someone, some­
where. The good that we do to others we shall receive
back in like measure; and the evil that we do to others
in like manner we shall receive back too. This does not
in the least mean that the same people whom we treat
well or ill will be the actual ones to return the action.
That almost never happens; but what does happen is
that at some other time or place, often far away and
long afterwards, someone else who knows nothing
whatever of the previous action will, nevertheless, repay
it, grain for grain, to us. For every unkind word that
you speak to or about another person, an unkind word
will be spoken to or about you. For every time that you
cheat, you will be cheated. For every time that you de­
ceive you will be deceived. For every lie that you utter,
you will be lied to. Every time that you neglect a duty,
or evade a responsibility, or misuse authority over other
people, you are doing something for which you will
inevitably have to pay by suffering a like injury your­
With What Measure Ye Mete 1 19
self. With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured
to you again.
Now, is it not obvious that if only people realized all
this as being literally true, it would have the profound-
est influence on their conduct? Would not such an un­
derstanding do more in practice to decrease crime and
raise the general moral standard of the community than
all the laws ever passed by parliaments, or all the formal
punishments meted out by judges and magistrates? Peo­
ple are very apt to think, especially when they are
strongly tempted, that they can probably escape the law
of the land, outrun the constable, or slip through the
clutches of authority in some other way. They hope
that individuals will forgive them, or else be powerless
to revenge their actions; or that the thing will be for­
gotten some time; or, better still, that they will never
be found out at all. If, however, they understood that
the law of retribution is a Cosmic Law, impersonal and
unchanging as the law of gravity; neither considering
persons nor respecting institutions; without rancor but
without pity; they would think twice before they
treated other people unjustly. The law of gravity never
sleeps, is never off duty or off its guard, is never tired
out, is neither compassionate nor vindictive; and no one
would ever dream of trying to evade it, or coax it, or
bribe it, or intimidate it. People accept it as being in­
evitable and inescapable, and they shape their conduct
accordingly—
and the law of retribution is even as the,
law of gravity. Water finds its own level sooner or later
and our treatment of others returns at last upon our­
selves.
120 The Sermon on the Mount
Some Christian people, upon hearing the law of retri­
bution explained, have objected that this is Buddhism,
or Hinduism, and not Christianity. N ow it is perfectly
true that this law is taught by the Buddhists, and by
the Hinduists, and wisely so—
because it is the law of
nature. It is also true that the law is better understood
in Oriental countries than among us; but this does not
make it an Oriental possession. It simply means that the
orthodox Christian churches have largely neglected to
make an important section of the Christian teaching
clear to the people.
T o those who say that it is un-Christian, I reply with
a question: Is the Gospel of Matthew a Christian docu­
ment, or not? Was Jesus Christ a Christian or a Bud­
dhist? You may like or dislike the doctrine, and if you
wish, you may try to ignore it; but you cannot denv
that Jesus Christ taught it, and in the most direct and
emphatic way when he said: Judge not that ye be not
judged. For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be
judged: and with what measure ye mete, it shall be meas­
ured to you again.
A beautiful description of the Law has been written
for English speaking people by Sir Edwin Arnold in
The Song Celestial-.
It will not be contemned of any one;
Who thwarts it loses, and who serves it gains;
The hidden good it pays with peace and bliss,
The hidden ill with pains.
B y this the slayer’s knife did stab himself;
The unjust judge hath lost his own defender;
The false tongue dooms its lie; the creeping thief
And spoiler rob, to render.
With What Measure Ye Mete 121
122 The Sermon on the Mount
It seeth everywhere and marketh all:
Do right—
it recompenseth! do one wrong—
The equal retribution must be made,
Though Dharma tarry long.
Now we see that we had better not do to anyone
else anything that we do not wish to have done to us,
because that is what will happen. Particularly is this the
case if we act badly towards someone who is in our
power.
But it is a poor law that does not work both ways,
and so it is equally true that for every good deed that
you do, for every kind word that you speak, you will
in the same way, at some time or other, get back an
equivalent. People often complain of ingratitude on
the part of those whom they have helped, or upon
whom they have conferred favors, and too often with
truth; but this complaint shows a false attitude of
mind which it is important to correct. When you
feel hurt because someone has been ungrateful for your
kindness, it shows that you have been looking for grati­
tude, and this is a great mistake. The true reason for
helping another is that it is our duty to help others in
so far as we can do so wisely; or because it is an expres­
sion of love. Of course, love will not look for a quid
pro quo, and to have done one’s duty should be its own
reward, remembering, if we wish, that in some other
way the deed will surely be recognized. The very fact
that one is looking for gratitude means that he is putting
the other person under a sense of obligation, and that
person will probably get this subconsciously and resent
it strongly, as such a thing is highly repugnant to human
nature. Do your good deed, and then pass on, neither
expecting nor wishing for personal recognition.
Is it not a beautiful and encouraging thought that
all the prayers you have ever said in your life, and all
the good deeds and kind words for which you have
ever been responsible are still with you, and that noth­
ing can ever take them away? Indeed, our prayers and
our words and acts of kindness to others are the only
things that we do keep, for all the rest must disappear.
Errors of thought, word, and deed are worked out and
satisfied under the Law, but the good goes on forever,
unchanged and undimmed by time.
Students of Scientific Christianity who understand
the power of thought, will realize that it is here, in the
realm of thought, that the Law finds its true application;
and they will see that the one thing that matters, in the
last resort, is to keep their thoughts right about other
people—
even as about themselves. The right thought
about God, and the right thought about fellow-man,
and the right thought about one’s self; that is the Law
and the Prophets. Knowing that Dominion is located in
the Secret Place, it is on the Secret Place that they
will focus their attention in observing the command­
ment—
judge not.
The Golden Rule in Scientific Christianity is: Think
about others as you 'would 'wish them to think about
you. In the light of the knowledge that we now possess,
the observance of this rule becomes a very solemn duty,
but, more than that indeed, it is a vital debt of honor.
A debt of honor is an obligation that cannot be enforced
at law, but depends for its discharge upon the honor
With What Measure Ye Mete 123
The Sermon on the Mount
124
and self-respect of the debtor, and, in like manner, since
no one can know or prove how we are thinking, we are
not responsible for our thoughts to any tribunal but the
highest one of all—
the Tribunal which never makes mis­
takes, and whose decisions are never evaded.
The student having now gained an understanding of
what the Great Law is and how it works, as it is so
wonderfully summed up by Jesus in this section, is in
a position to take the next great step and understand
how it is possible to rise above even the Great Law it­
self, in the name of T H E CEIRIST. In the Bible the
term “ Christ” is not identical with Jesus, the individual.
It is a technical term which may be briefly defined as
the Absolute Spiritual Truth about anything. Now,
to know this Truth about any person, or condition, or
circumstance, immediately heals that person, or condi­
tion, or circumstance, to the extent that such Truth is
realized by the thinker. This is the essence of spiritual
healing, and thus we see that in the widest sense, and
altogether independently of the special and unparalleled
work that was done for us by Jesus himself, it is true
that the Christ comes into the world to redeem it and
save it. Whenever the Christ (that is the True Idea con­
cerning anything) is raised up in thought by anyone,
healing follows—
physical healing, or moral healing, or
even intellectual healing, as the case may be.
Intellectual healing would be to make a dull or stupid
person bright and intelligent. Backward school children
respond like magic to such treatment. One should claim
Divine Intelligence for them and realize that God is
the soul of man. Sickness and sin, poverty and confusion.
weakness of character, all disappear under the power of
the Healing Christ. It makes no difference how deeply-
seated may be the trouble, the realization by somebody
of the Christ, or the Spiritual Truth behind the appear­
ance, will heal it. There is no exception whatever to
this. Because the Christ is nothing less than the direct
action of God Himself, the Self-knowing of Spirit, it
over-rides all else.
The higher law of Spirit over-rides or supersedes all
the lower laws of the physical and mental planes. This,
as we saw in the first chapter, does not mean that the
laws of the physical or mental planes are broken. It
means that man, because of his essential Divine Self­
hood, has the power of rising above these domains into
the infinite dimension of Spirit where such laws no
longer affect him. He has not broken their laws, but has
adventured beyond them. A very inadequate simile may
be cited in the case of the balloon which rushes away
from the ground seemingly in defiance of the law of
gravity, as soon as the bag is inflated. Here it seems as
if the law of gravity were broken, but of course it is
not broken, but rather, completely fulfilled by such ac­
tion; yet the normal experience of ordinary life actually
is reversed. Now the Law of Karma, which is no re­
specter of persons, and forgets nothing, is actually law
for matter and mind only; it is not law for Spirit. In
Spirit all is perfect and eternal, unchanging good. Here
there is no bad Karma to be reaped, because none can
be sown, and thus when man, by what we call prayer,
meditation, or treatment, transfers his attention to the
With What Measure Ye Mete 125
domain of Spirit, he comes—
to that extent—
under the
law of perfect Good, and Karma is wiped out.
So man has the choice of Kctrnm or Christ. This is
the best news that has ever come to mankind, and for
that reason it is called the good news, or the glad tid­
ings, or the Gospel, for such is the meaning of this word.
This is man’s charter of freedom, his dominion over all
things as the Image and Likeness of God. He has his
choice. He can remain in the limited region of matter
and mind, in which case he is bound fast on the wheel of
Karma; or, he can appeal, through prayer, to the Realm
of Spirit—
that is, the Christ—
and be free. But he has the
choice—Christ or Karma; and C H R IST IS LO RD OF
KA RM A .
In the East where Karma is so well understood, they
are without the Christian message of the Christ, and
they therefore find themselves in a rather hopeless po­
sition. We, however, who rightly understand the Gospel
of the Christ, can be free. In other words, Karma turns
out to be inexorable only so long as you do not pray.
As soon as you pray, you begin to rise above Karma;
that is to say, you begin to wipe out the unpleasant con­
sequences of past mistakes. For any given mistake, you
must either suffer the consequences, which we call be­
ing punished, or wipe them out by scientific prayer—
the Practice of the Presence of God. You have the
grand choice—Christ or Karma.
Does this mean that any mistake, any stupidity, any
heinous sin even, can be expunged from the Book of
Life, with all punishment or suffering naturally accru­
ing to it? Yes, it means nothing less than that. There
126 The Sermon on the Mount
is no evil that the Healing Christ will not destroy. God
so loves the world that he manifests His unique Christ
Power, that whosoever chooses it shall not perish
through his own weakness or frailty, but have everlast
ing salvation.
It must not, needless to say, be supposed that the
consequences of a mistake are to be cheaply evaded by
a perfunctory prayer. Not so indeed. N o superficial
prayer, but sufficient realization of God to alter funda­
mentally the character of the sinner, is required in order
to wipe out the punishment that otherwise must always
follow upon sin. When sufficient prayer or treatment
has been done so that the sinner becomes a changed
man, and will not even desire to repeat his sin, then is
he saved; and then are the penalties remitted, for Christ
is I urd of Karma.
With What Measure Ye Mete 127
Chapter VII
BY TH EIR FRUITS
Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye
your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their
feet, and turn again and rend you.
(.Matthew VII)
tr n tellig en ce is just as essential a part of the Christian
JL message as is love. God is love, but God is also in­
finite intelligence, and unless these two qualities are bal­
anced in our lives, we do not get wisdom; for wisdom
is the perfect blending of intelligence and love. Love
without intelligence may do much undesigned harm—
the spoiled child is a case in point—and intelligence with­
out love may ultimate in clever cruelty. All true Chris­
tian activity will express wisdom, for zeal without dis­
cretion is proverbially mischievous.
It often happens that when people first become pos­
sessed of a knowledge of the Truth, and are perhaps set
free from some oppressing difficulty, they are so over­
joyed that they go running about pouring out their
discovery to others, indiscriminately; and probably
urging them to accept the Truth too. It is entirely un­
derstandable that this should happen, for love longs to
share its good; but, nevertheless, it is very unwise. The
fact is that the acceptance of Truth involves, as we have
128
seen, the scrapping of all the old standards; and, after
all, this is a tremendous thing to expect from anyone,
and it can only happen, in any case, when people are
spiritually ready for the change. If one is spiritually
ready, he will be glad to accept Truth, if it be put for­
ward in some way that can appeal to him; if he be not
ready, no amount of intellectual discussion or argument
will make him so.
Never rely upon your own judgment to say who is
ready for the Truth and who is not; but rely for guid­
ance upon the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Most of
us have had the experience, when we first realized the
Spiritual Idea and what it means, of picking out certain
of our friends who, we felt sure, would jump at it, only
to find that in most cases they refused to take it at
all. On the other hand, several people whom we, in
our foolishness, chose to regard as being unspiritual (be­
cause they did not seem to be spiritual) accepted it
gladly and made a great success with it. If you are pray­
ing regularly every day for wisdom, intelligence, and
fresh opportunities for service, the right people will be
brought to you, or you will be brought to them; and
a convenient occasion will be provided for the sub­
ject to be introduced. If, when in company with any­
one, you are doubtful whether or not to broach the
subject of Truth, do not; but pray for guidance in­
stead, and leave the matter to the action of God. Some­
times nothing happens, no convenient opportunity pre­
sents itself while you are with your friend, and that
means that the time is not ripe and that no good would
have been done by speaking. V ery often, however, an
By Their Fruits 129
The Sermon on the Mount
130
obvious opening does occur in the conversation, after
the treatment has been given, or some external incident
happens which furnishes an opening for introducing the
subject; and I have seen some very surprising and pleas«
ant awakenings happen in this way.
Above all things, be chary of forcing the subject of
Truth upon the people with whom you have to live and
work; especially in your home. It is easy to make your­
self nothing less than a constant nuisance by forcing
your ideas upon people who cannot appreciate them,
because they are not ready. As members of your house­
hold and business associates have naturally to see a good
deal of you, and you of them, such a policy will prob­
ably give rise to a good deal of friction, and even ill
feeling. T ry to realize that in the absence of your per­
sonal awakening they cannot possibly see the thing as
you do; and that they are therefore seeing something
else. Also, you may not be very skillful in expounding
your ideas in the best way. Finally, remember that
those with whom you associate closely will have your
personal conduct under constant inspection, will be
familiar with many of your faults and weaknesses, and,
if you talk too much and without a good deal of wis­
dom concerning spiritual enlightenment, will be sure to
look for a greater demonstration than you may be able
to make in the beginning, and they will have to be
rather more than average humanity if they do not some­
times point out discrepancies at most unwelcome mo­
ments—
if you have been too aggressive. In other words,
“ hasten slowly” is here the watchword. It cannot help
the spread of Truth at all for you to get the reputation
of being a crank or a nuisance. The quickest way to
spread it is by living the life yourself. Then, people
will notice the change in you, and, as they see improved
health and prosperity in your life, and happiness shin­
ing in your face, they will come round of their own
accord, begging to share your secret. They will require
no urging to drink the waters of life.
When you are desirous of introducing the Truth to
a particular person, or to a group of people, the proper
course is to prepare yourself by a special daily treat­
ment for several days, or better still for a week or two,
in advance. W ork for Intelligence, Love (to overcome
impatience, and to help you to meet ridicule or seeming
unkindness), and, above all, for Wisdom, which, as we
have seen, is the right union of the other two. Claim
that the action of God will make you say the right
thing when the time comes, and that it will also endow
your listener or listeners with the same qualities. Do not
allow yourself to care in the least what the actual result
of the discussion may turn out to be. Voice the Truth,
and leave it. You will often be amazed at the results
you will get following a few days’ spiritual preparation
of this kind.
Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find;
knock, and it shall be opened unto you:
For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh
findeth; and to him that ltnocketh it shall be opened.
Or what man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread,
will he give him a stone?
Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent?
If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto
your children, how much more shall your Father which is in
heaven give good things to them that ask him?
' Matthew Vlll
By Their Fruits 131
The Sermon on the Mount
132
This is the wonderful passage in which Jesus enun­
ciates the primary truth of the Fatherhood of God.
This truth may be called primary because it is the
foundation stone upon which the whole structure of
true religion is built. Until men could understand the
meaning of the Fatherhood of God, and something of
what that implies, they could hardly obtain any satis­
factory religious experience. As long as men had be­
lieved that there were many gods, a sound religious
experience was not possible, for all genuine religious ex-
Derience is a search for conscious union with the One.
1
Many gods must necessarily be gods of limitation; and
as they were always, and necessarily, represented as
being in conflict among themselves, only chaotic thought
could follow from such a belief. Those who had got
beyond that idea to the concept of the One or True
God, still thought of Him almost universally as a kind
of Oriental tyrant-king, or sultan, owning and governing
man with a rod of iron, on much the same lines that a
capricious human tyrant might be expected to pursue.
The God of many of the Old Testament writers is a
very jealous, revengeful, and cruel despot; a sultan whom
it is almost impossible to please, implacable in his anger,
often indiscriminate m his vengeance. He seems to have
no more in common with mankind than men have with
the animals; in fact much less, for we do conceive our­
selves to share many of the lowest creatures’ limitations
in a common susceptibility to suffering and hunger and
death.
This Oriental-sultan view of God was actually the
view held by very many earnest orthodox Christians
down to very recent times, be it remembered, and it
denied to man anything in common with God at all.
A witty modem writer has compared this god to a
certain English millionaire who keeps a private zoo near
London as his own personal hobby. It is stocked with
a number of creatures which exist solely for their owner’s
interest and pleasure. He visits his menagerie from time
to time and (acting no doubt on expert advice) orders
certain animals to be destroyed, others to be moved
into more commodious cages, and others again per­
haps to be dealt with in this way or that. He has, of
course, no spiritual communion with them whatever.
They are simply so many animated toys that exist for
his entertainment. This is not by any means an over­
strained description of the ideas held by many Funda­
mentalists, for instance.
In this passage Jesus once and for all lays the axe to
the root of this horrible superstition for those who will
read their Bible with an open mind. He says here, defi­
nitely and clearly*-and he stresses his words in the most
circumstantial way—
that the real relationship of God
and man is that of parent and child. Here God ceases
to be the distant potentate who deals with grovelling
slaves, and becomes the loving Father of us, His chil­
dren. It is extremely difficult to realize the far-reaching
importance that this declaration holds for the life of
the soul. If you will read and re-read this section deal­
ing with the Fatherhood of God every day for a few
weeks, you will find that it alone answers a great many
of your religious problems. 1 venture to say that you will
be considerably surprised at the large number of puz-
By Their Fruits 133
zling questions that it will settle once and for all. The
teaching of Jesus concerning the Fatherhood of God
was original and unique. In the Old Testament God
is never addressed as “Father.” Where references to His
Fatherhood are made, He is referred to as the Father
of the nation, and not of individuals. Indeed this was
the reason why Jesus made the declaration of the
Fatherhood of God the opening clause of what we call
the “Lord’s Prayer.” It explains, for instance, the tre­
mendous statement in Genesis that man is the image
and likeness of God.
It is axiomatic, of course, that the offspring must be
of the same nature and species as the parent; and so if
God and man are indeed Father and child, man—
not­
withstanding all his present limitations, and despite all
appearances to the contrary—
must be essentially Divine
too, and susceptible of infinite growth and improvement
and development up the rising pathway of divinity.
That is to say, as man’s true nature—his spiritual char­
acter—unfolds, which means as he becomes more and
more conscious of it, he will expand in spiritual con­
sciousness until he has transcended all bounds of human
imagination; onward, and yet onward still. It is in refer­
ence to this, our glorious destiny, that, as we have al­
ready seen, Jesus himself says elsewhere, quoting the
older scriptures: “I have said ye are gods, and all of
you sons of the Most High.” He then emphasized his
point by adding significantly: “And the scripture can­
not be broken.”
So, in this passage we are set free once and for all
from the last link in the last chain that binds us to a
134 Tie Sermon on the Mount
limited and a degraded destiny. We are the children of
God; and if children, then sons, and joint heirs with
Jesus Christ, as Paul says; and as sons of God we are
the heirs of our Father’s estate, not strangers, or paid
servants, much less chattel slaves. W e are sons of the
house and will one day enjoy our inheritance. At the
present time we find ourselves full of limitations and
disabilities because we are spiritually but children—
minors. Children are irresponsible, lacking in wisdom
and experience, and have to be kept under control lest
their mistakes should entail serious consequences to
themselves. But as soon as man comes of age spiritually,
then, as we have seen above, he claims his rights and ob­
tains them. “The heir as long as he is a child differeth
nothing from a servant, though he be Lord of all, but is
under tutors and governors” ; but when the fullness of
time is come, he awakens to the Truth, and obtains his
spiritual majority. He realizes that it is the Voice of
God Himself that is in his heart, making him cry:
“Abba, Father.” Then at last he knows that he is the
son of a great King, and that all that his Father has is
his for the using, whether it be health, or supply, or
opportunity, or beauty, or joy, or any other of the
thoughts of God.
The most mischievous thing in life is man’s slowness,
indeed we can say his reluctance, to perceive his own
dominion. God has given us dominion over all things,
but we shrink like frightened children from assuming it,
although that assuming is the one and only escape for us.
Mankind is often like a fugitive who sits in the driving
seat of an automobile which is all ready to bear him
By Their Fruits 135
The Sermon on the Mount
136
away to safety, but who cannot bring himself, for nerv­
ousness, to grasp the controls and start the car. He sits
there half frozen with terror, glancing over his shoul­
der, wondering whether his pursuers will catch up with
him, and what will happen to him if they do. He could
make his escape into safety at any moment, but he will
not, or dare not.
Jesus, who knew the human heart as no other has
ever known it before or since, understood our difficulty
and our weakness in this respect; and with his unpar­
alleled magic of living words, his power of putting fun­
damental truth in such simple, direct, and pointed
fashion that even a child could not miss it, commands
us: Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall
find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you; for every
one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth;
and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.
It is impossible to imagine the thing being stated more
definitely and compellingly than in these words. There
are simply no words in any language which could be
clearer or more emphatic, and yet, for the most part,
Christians quietly ignore them, or else discount their
meaning until they are left without any meaning at
all. Now, as I have previously pointed out, we are
obliged to believe either that Jesus meant what he said,
or that he did not; and, as we can hardly believe that
he did not, or that he could talk nonsense through
want of understanding, we are compelled to accept these
words as being true—and, indeed, where is there room
for evasion?
Ask a?id ye shall receive. Is nor this the Magna Charta
of personal freedom for every man, woman, and child
on earth? Is not this the decree of the emancipation of
the slaves of every kind of bondage, physical, mental,
or spiritual? What room does this leave for the so-called
Christian virtue of resignation, so often preached? The
fact is, of course, that resignation is not a virtue at all.
On the contrary, resignation is a sin. What we com­
monly dignify with the fine name of resignation, is
really an unwholesome mixture of cowardice and sloth.
We have no business to be resigned to inharmony of
any kind, because inharmony cannot be the W ill of
God. W e have no business to accept ill-health, or pov­
erty, or sinfulness, or strife, or unhappiness, or remorse,
with resignation. W e have no right to accept anything
less than freedom and harmony and joy, for only with
these things do we glorify God, and express His Holy
Will, which is our raison d’être.
It is our most sacred duty, out of loyalty to God
Himself, to refuse to accept anything less than all­
round happiness and success, and we shall not be fol­
lowing out the wishes and instructions of Jesus if we
do accept less. W e are to pray and meditate, and reor­
ganize our lives in accordance with his teaching, contin­
uously and untiringly until our goal is attained. That
this attainment, that our victory over every negative con­
dition, is not merely possible but is definitely promised
to us, finds its proof in these glorious words, the en­
sign of freedom for mankind: Ask, and ye shall receive;
seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto
you.
By Their Fruits 137
Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should
do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and
the prophets.
(.Matthew VII)
This is the sublime precept that we call the Golden
Rule. Here Jesus reiterates the Great Law in a concise
summing up. This repetition follows upon his wonder­
ful statement of the Fatherhood of God. The underly­
ing explanation for the existence of the Great Law is
the metaphysical fact that we are all fundamentally one-
all parts of the Great Mind. Because we are all ulti­
mately one, to hurt another is really to hurt oneself,
and to help another is really to help oneself. The Father­
hood of God compels us to accept the brotherhood of
man, and, spiritually, brotherhood is unity.
The understanding of this great truth includes within
itself all other religious knowledge, and is, in the old
phraseology, the law and the prophets.
Enter ye in at the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and
broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there
be which go in thereat:
Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which
leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.
(Matthew VII)
There is only one way under the sun by which man
can attain harmony, that is to say, health, prosperity,
peace of mind—
salvation, in the true sense of the word—
and that is by bringing about a radical and permanent
change for the better in his own consciousness. This is
the one and only way; there is no other. For countless
generations humanity has been trying in everv other
138 The Sermon on the Mount
conceivable way to compass its own good. Innumerable
schemes have been designed to bring about happiness by
making changes of some sort in man’s external condi­
tions while leaving the quality of his mentality un­
touched; and always the result has been the same^
failure. W e are now in a position to see why this must
be so, that it is because the very nature of our being is
such that it is only by a change in consciousness that
outer conditions can really be altered. This change in
consciousness is the strait gate that Jesus speaks of here,
and, as he says, the number of those who find it is
comparatively small. Today that number is increasing
with great rapidity, and as time goes on will increase
more and more rapidly, though indeed it is still compara­
tively small, but at the time that Jesus spoke it was very
much smaller still.
This doctrine that what matters is one’s consciousness,
because your own concept is what you see, Jesus calls
the W ay of Life, and he says that all other doctrines
are but a broad road to destruction or disappointment.
N ow why should man be so reluctant, apparently, to
try to change his consciousness? W hy is it that he seems
to prefer to try almost any other method however
arduous or even far-fetched it may be? All through his­
tory every other conceivable way has been tried to
bring about the salvation of humanity, and, of course,
all have failed, as we' now know that they must; and
yet man will seldom try the “strait” way until he is
driven to it, individually, by irresistible pressure.
The answer is that, as we have already seen, the
changing of one’s consciousness is really very hard
By Their Fruits 139
work, calling for constant unceasing vigilance and a
breaking of mental habits which is sure to be very
troublesome for a time. The natural man is lazy, always
tends to take the line of least resistance, and so, in this
as in lesser matters, he does not get down to bed-rock
principles until he is compelled to.
The W ay of Life, the strait gate, is, however, worth
much more than whatever trouble or effort it may call
for. On this road the rewards are not temporary but
permanent; every mile gained is gained for all eternity.
Indeed, the changing of one’s consciousness is in truth
the only thing that is really worth doing at all. A com­
parison from everyday life will help to illustrate this
point: Suppose a man successfully removes a stain from
his coat; that action will benefit him for as long as the
garment is in use, say a few months. Suppose, on the
other hand, he develops a bodily function, say his
breathing capacity, by suitable physical exercises; the
improvement gained here will be with him for the re­
mainder of his physical life, perhaps fifty or sixty years,
and is, for that reason alone, a far more important thing
to have done, even apart from the much more far-
reaching effect upon his life of the operation itself.
Now, if he makes a qualitative change in his conscious­
ness, which is what happens under prayer or treatment,
then not only is the effect of that change felt in every
phase and department of his life, but it is with him
through all eternity, for he never can lose it. Thieves
cannot break in and. steal.
As soon as you obtain the spiritual consciousness you
will find that all things indeed work together for
good to those who love Good, or God. You will
140 The Sermon on the Mount
experience perfect health, abundant prosperity, and
complete and utter happiness. Your health will be so
good that mere living will be in itself an inexpressible
joy. The body, no longer the burden to be dragged
about that so many people find it, will be as though it
were shod with winged shoes. Your prosperity will be
such that you need not take the question of finance into
consideration at all. You will always have all the supply
that you need to carry out any of your plans. The world
will turn out to be full of charming people only too
anxious to help you in every way. Otners will come into
your life only for good. You will find yourself occu­
pied with the most delightful and interesting activities
of the most widely useful kind. All your energy and
all your faculties will find full scope for their expression
and, in short, you will develop the “completely inte­
grated and fully expressed personality” of which
modem psychology dreams.
Those who have not glimpsed the secret of the Christ
Message may look upon all this as nothing but a beauti­
ful vision, “ too good to be true,” but it is just the
essence of the Christ Message that nothing is too good
to be true, because the Love and the Power of God are
true. It is just this very belief that complete harmony
is too good to be true that really prevents our getting
it. We, as mental beings, make the laws under which we
live; and we have to live under the laws that we make.
A tragic mistake that is often made by orthodox re­
ligious people is to assume that the W ill of God for
them is bound to be something very dull and uninviting,
if not positively unpleasant. Consciously or not they
look upon God as a hard task-master, or a severe Puri-
By Their Fruits 141
The Sermon on the Mount
142
tanical parent. Too often their prayers virtually amount
to something like this: “Please God, give me such and
such a boon which I sorely need—
but I don’t suppose
you will, because you won’t think it is good for me.”
Needless to say, a prayer of this sort is answered as all
prayers are answered, according to the faith of the sub­
ject; that is to say, the boon is not granted. The truth is
that the W ill of God for us always means greater free­
dom, greater self-expression, wider and newer and
brighter experience; better health, greater prosperity,
wider opportunity of service to others—
life more
abundant.
If you are ill or in poverty, or obliged to do work
that you dislike; if you are lonely, or if you have to
mix with people who displease you; you may be certain
that you are not expressing the Will of God, and as
long as you are not expressing His Will, it is natural
for you to experience inharmony; and it is equally
true that when you do express His Will, harmony will
come.
Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep’s
clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes
of thorns, or figs of thistles?
Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a
corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. .
A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a
corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.
Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn
down, and cast into the fire.
Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them.
(Matthew VII)
Is there any infallible way in which man can find out
the real Truth about God, and about life, and about him­
self? Is there any way in which he can tell for himself
which is the true religion, and which is not? which of
the churches are genuine and which are false? which
books or teachers teach the Truth, and which teach
error? How many honest seekers for Truth, confused
and worried by the babel of conflicting theologies and
brawling sects, have yearned with their whole hearts
for some simple test whereby the honest seeker could
discover for himself what the Truth really is.
Is there a single sincere Christian who would not
eagerly strive to follow the wishes of Jesus Christ if only
he could find out what they are? He is told by all sorts
of people and by all sorts of churches that they alone
represent the true teaching, and that he will disregard
their doctrines and their discipline at his peril; and yet
they all disagree among themselves upon vital points
both of theory and practice; and each of them individu­
ally is full of inconsistencies.
If man really were left without a simple practical
test of religious truth, he would assuredly be in a sad
plight; but happily this is not the case. Jesus, the most
profound, and at the same time the most simple and
practical teacher the world has ever known, has provided
for this need, and has given us an utterly simple and
universally applicable test for Truth. It is a test that any
man or woman of any kind, anywhere, can easily apply
for himself. It is as simple and direct as the acid test for
gold. It is the simple question—
does it work?
This test is so staggeringly simple that most clever
By Their Fruits 143
people have passed it over as not worth considering,
forgetting that all the great elemental things of life are
simple. Yet, just this is the fundamental test for Truth-
does it work?—
because Truth always works. The Truth
always heals. A true story always turns out to be con­
sistent when thoroughly sifted, while the most plausible
lie will break down somewhere if sufficiently investi­
gated. Truth heals the body, purifies the soui, reforms
the sinner, solves difficulties, pacifies strife. From this it
follows that, according to Jesus, teaching that is true
will automatically prove itself by practical demonstra­
tion. “They shall cast out devils, speak in new tongues,
take up serpents, drink any deadly thing with impunity,
and they shall lay hands upon the sick, and they shall
recover.” False teaching, on the contrary, no matter
how attractively it may be presented, no matter what
social or academic prestige may be attached to it, will
fail to do all or any of these things; and, failing to meas­
ure up to the test, must be condemned. Its sponsors are
false Prophets clad in the sheep’s clothing of true re­
ligion; but, although they are usually perfectly sincere
in their claims and pretensions, still they come between
the seeker and the saving Truth, and are therefore,
despite their good intentions, spiritual wolves. By their
fruits ye shall know them.
Now that we understand clearly that a successful
demonstration is the proof, and the only proof, of true
understanding, we have no further excuse for straying
from the Path. Our progress on the Path may, for one
reason or another, be comparatively slow, but at least
we shall be able to keep on the Path. W e shall always
144 The Sermon on the Mount
know when we have left the Path, because demonstra­
tions will cease. Most people find it especially difficult
to demonstrate in certain directions, while having little
difficulty in others. This is to be expected, and only
means that more work needs to be done in some di­
rections than in others. If, however, you are getting
no real demonstrations in any direction, it means that
you have left the Path and are no longer praying rightly;
and you must immediately get back, by claiming that
Divine Intelligence is inspiring you, and that you are
expressing Truth. If you do this, you will come to no
harm, even if the unproductive period seems to last
rather a long time; and you will learn a good deal. But
if, on the other hand, you behave like the Pharisees and,
instead of frankly admitting your mistake, proceed to
indulge in self-righteousness and spiritual pride, then
indeed you are in for a bad time. If, like some misguided
people, you say something like this: “I do not demon­
strate, but I do not wish to do so, because I am too
spiritual; I am above demonstration; I am too advanced
for that kind of thing,” or perhaps, “I demonstrate in
ways that you cannot see” ; then you are not merely
talking nonsense, but you are doing something very like
blaspheming Divine Wisdom itself—
and what is this but
the sin against the Holy Ghost.
One does not seek demonstrations as an end in them­
selves, but one seeks to know Truth as an end in itself;
and since the Law is that as one acquires true un­
derstanding the outer picture improves automatically,
that change in the outer picture becomes the visible
evidence of the change in the inner—
“ an outward and
By Their Fruits 145
The Sermon on the Mount
146
visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace” —and thus
we come to know unerringly where we stand. The outer
picture is like the gauge that tells what is happening
inside a boiler.
The real reason for desiring demonstrations is that
they are the proof of understanding. There is no such
thing as undemonstrated understanding. As within, so
without; as without, so within. If you wish to know
how you really stand spiritually, look about you at youl
environment, beginning with the body. There can be
nothing in the soul that is not demonstrated sooner or
later in the outer, and there can be nothing in the outer
which does not find some correspondence in the inner.
Whether it be the testing of your own soul, or the
test of a teacher, or the test of a book or a church, that
test is always simple, direct, and infallible. Does it work?
What are the fruits? For: By their fruits ye shall know
them.
Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter
into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of
my Father which is in heaven.
Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not
prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out
devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works?
And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you:
depart from me, ye that work iniquity.
(Matthew VII)
Mankind is slow to realize that there is simply no way
of salvation except by changing one’s consciousness,
which means trying to do the W ill of God con­
sistently in every department of life. We are all will­
ing to do His W ill sometimes and in some things.
but until there is a complete alignment both in the great
and in the small things—
a complete dedication of one’s
whole self in fact—there cannot be a complete demon­
stration. As long as we are allowing any secondary thing
to come between us and the Primary thing, there is no
full salvation. “There is no home for the soul in which
there dwells the shadow of an untruth,” said George
Meredith.
This danger is an extraordinarily subtle one. No sooner
have we met and mastered it in one direction than it
seems to attack us in another. It calls for nothing less
than unceasing watchfulness, and an almost heroic
courage. Never is it more true than in the life of the
soul, that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance. W e
must not allow any consideration whatever, any institu­
tion, or organization, or any book, or any man or
woman, to come between us and our direct seeking for
God. If our reliance is upon anything but our own un­
derstanding of Truth, our work will cease to be fruitful.
If we rely unduly upon anyone else, upon a particular
teacher or healer, for instance, he will be certain to fail
us, probably through no fault of his own. He will be
out of reach when we most need him, or for some other
reason will be unavailable in our hour of need. The same
principle applies when people allow themselves to be­
come the slaves of special conditions. A certain woman
said: “ I can treat myself only when I am in the reading
room of our local center; the atmosphere there is so
beautiful.” The time came, and not very long after­
wards, when her husband was transferred by the gov­
ernment to a mid-African station where she had to meet
By Their Fruits 147
The Sermon on the Mount
148
a crisis thousands of miles from a reading room, and
more than a hundred miles from any other white
woman. Then she was driven back on her real knowl­
edge of Truth, and, of course, made a great advance in
understanding.
It is your duty to get all the help that you can from
books and teachers, and so forth; but unless your real
reliance is upon your own understanding, you are only
crying “Lord, Lord,” with your lips, and pretending
to prophesy in His name while essentially “knowing
Him not” ; which, for practical purposes, will be as
though He knew you not. There is no entering the
Kingdom of Heaven in this way. For the thousandth
time let it be said, you have to earn your salvation by
genuine, consistent hard work upon your own con­
sciousness in realizing God.
Many people hesitate to free themselves from an
orthodox church which they have really outgrown,
because of the practical or merely sentimental incon­
venience of breaking a family tradition; but “ He that
loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy
of me.” Again, many people seem to find it possible to
summon up enough energy and courage to break from
the orthodox church, only to settle down once more,
almost as inertly, into one of the more liberal churches,
or into some spiritual center or organization, where
they seem to go to sleep again, under the impression that
they have now at last discovered the Truth, and need
take no further trouble. As if this were not exactly the
same old mistake made by the pioneers and founders of
all the orthodox churches themselves; all of which orig-
inally started as reforming heresies. What do you gain
by breaking free from one organization if you are only
going to surrender your new-found freedom to another
one?
In other cases people have developed a personal devo­
tion to some independent teacher which has caused them
entirely to yield their own judgment to his. Others
again have some favorite textbook which, in fact if not
in name, they regard as infallible.
N ow the only infallible thing known to man is the
simple test for Truth that Jesus gave us—
By their fruits
ye shall know them.
You should gladly take advantage of helpful teaching
wherever you may get it; go to churches or meetings
that help you; listen to speakers, and read books that
inspire you to find yourself; but do not surrender to
anybody your own spiritual judgment. Thank those
who have helped you, and acknowledge the good re­
ceived; but always be ready to pass on to the next step.
Remember that the Truth of Being concerns Itself with
the infinite, the impersonal Principle of Life; and doe$
not lend itself to the exploitation of particular personalia
ties or organizations. You do not owe an atom of loyalty
to anyone or anything in the universe except your own
Indwelling Christ, your own spiritual integrity. If
merely enrolling oneself in the membership of some
organized body were a guarantee of spiritual under­
standing, our salvation would be a much simpler matter
than it is. Unfortunately the problem is much more in­
volved. Centers, churches, schools, all fill a useful pur­
pose in providing the physical framework for the
By Their Fruits 149
The Sermon on the Mount
150
distribution of right knowledge, through lectures,
books, and so forth; but the actual work must be done
in the individual consciousness. T o claim more than this
for outer things is to reestablish superstition. If, when
the testing time comes, we attempt to lean upon a
church membership, or upon our devotion to a teacher’s
personality, or upon a mere letter-perfect acquaintance
with any textbook, the Voice of Truth will proclaim
that it never knew us; and we shall have to go without
our demonstration.
Because human life and human character are so many
sided, the Bible approaches every problem from several
different angles. This section of the Sermon teaches an­
other very important lesson too; namely, that the only
true way of bringing about anything is by the Practice
of the Presence of God. This is the only way in which
permanent results can be obtained. Temporary altera­
tions in conditions may be achieved by will power, but
they are only temporary, and sooner or later anything
that seems to have been accomplished in this way will
disappear again, leaving everything worse than it was
before. A great fortune, for instance, may be built up
by will power alone, but money thus acquired sooner
or later takes wings unto itself and flies away again, leav­
ing its deluded victim poorer than ever. Such a person
knows not the Truth of Being, and therefore it knows
him not, and cannot help him. Dramatically stated, in
the Oriental way, this becomes: 1 never knew you: de­
part from me, ye that work iniquity.
When a person has made such a mistake as this the
Thing for him to do is promptly to discontinue trying to
work without God, whereupon his mistake will be for­
given, as all mistakes are, as soon as we repent of them.
Then he should immediately begin to work for supply
on the Spiritual Basis, claiming God as his source and
realizing the bounty of God as his. Thus he will build
up a true prosperity consciousness, and when this is done
he never can be impoverished.
Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and
doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built
his home upon a rock:
And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the
winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it
was founded upon a rock.
And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and
doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which
built his house upon the sand:
And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the
winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great
was the fall of it.
By Their Fruits 151
(.Matthew VII)
The Sermon concludes with one of those illustrations
chat for simplicity, directness, and graphic power are
unmatched outside the teaching of Jesus. No one who
has read this parable of the two houses can ever forget
it. It warns us once again of the vanity of precept with­
out practice; of the deadly peril of those who know the
Truth, or at least know about it, without honestly try­
ing as well as they can to put it into practice. One could
almost say, better never to have heard of the Truth at
all, than to know of it and not try to live it.
One of the very oldest and most important symbols
for the human soul is that of a building, sometimes
a dwelling house, and sometimes a Temple, which man
is occupied in building. Man the Builder is as familiar
a character in the Occult Tradition as man the Shep­
herd, or man the Fisherman, or man the King, as we
found him in an earlier section. The first thing that has
to be done by the builder of a house is to select a sound
foundation, for, without that, it matters not how skill­
fully and conscientiously the building is put up, it will
collapse under the first serious storm that comes along.
Jesus, we remember, was brought up in the home and
workshop of a carpenter, who, in that time and place,
would be a builder too, as he still often is in remote
country places among ourselves; and this illustration is
one that would immediately occur to him. On the shift­
ing sands of the desert it is impossible to build anything
at all, and so there people have to dwell in tents. When
the Oriental intends to put up a permanent structure he
looks about for a rock, and builds upon that. Now the
Rock is one of the Bible terms for the Christ, and the
implication is very obvious. The Christ Truth is the one
and only foundation upon which we can build the
Temple of the regenerated soul with safety. It is the one
thing in existence that is absolutely true, never varying,
never shifting—
the same yesterday, today, and forever.
Resting upon this foundation we shall stand secure when
the winds, and rains, and floods of error, of fear, and
doubt, and self reproach, beat upon us, beat they never
so hard; for we are founded upon the Rock. But as long
as we are depending upon anything less than that Rock—
upon will power, upon so-called material security, upon
the good-will of others, or upon our own personal re­
152 The Sermon on the Mount
sources—
upon anything but God in fact, we are building
upon sand, and great will be our fall.
And it came to pass, when Jesus had ended these sayings,
the people were astonished at his doctrine:
For he taught them as one having authority, and not as
the scribes.
(Matthew VII)
In this concluding paragraph we are told quite simply
that the people were astonished at his doctrine. It is al­
ways so. The Jesus Christ message is utterly revolution­
ary. It reverses all the standards and all the methods, not
only of the “world,” but of all conventional or orthodox
religion itself, for it turns our gaze from the outside to
the inside, and from man and his works to God.
He taught as one having authority, and not as the
scribes. The greatest glory of the Spiritual Basis is that
you begin to know. When you have obtained the
smallest true demonstration hy means of scientific
prayer, you have experienced something that never
leaves you. You have the witness of Truth within your­
self. You are no longer dependent upon the word of
somebody else; you know for yourself; and this is the
only authority worth having. Jesus had this authority
and he proved it by doing the works. In the next chap­
ter of Matthew we learn that immediately after the
last discourse in this Sermon on the Mount, on his way
back to the town in fact, he instantaneously healed a
leper. This was proving that his doctrines were not mere
theorizing; and proving it with a vengeance.
Jesus contacted God direct, and therefore when he
spoke, he spoke the Word of Power.
By Their Fruits 153
The
Lord’s Prayer
An Interpretation
by
EMMET FOX
H a r p e r 6? Row, P u b l i s h e r s
N E W Y O R K AND E V A N S T O N
TH E LORD’S PRAYER
Copyright, 1932,1938, by Emmet Fox
Printed in the United States of America
He prayeth well who loveth well
Both man and bird and beast;
He prayeth best who loveth best
All things both great and small:
For the dear God who loveth us,
He made and loveth all.
Coleridge
Our Father, which art in heaven,
Hallowed be thy name. Thy king­
dom come. Thy will be done, in
earth as it isin heaven. Give us this
day our daily bread. And forgive
us our trespasses, as we forgive
them that trespass against us. And
lead us not into temptation; but
deliver us fro?n evil: For thine is
the kingdom, the power, and the
glory, for ever and ever.
Amen.
THE LORD’S PRAYER
h e Lord’s Prayer is the most important of all the
Christian documents. It was carefully constructed by
Jesus with certain very clear ends in view. That is why,
of all his teachings, it is by far the best known, and
the most often quoted. It is, indeed, the one common de­
nominator of all the Christian churches. Every one of
them, without exception, uses the Lord’s Prayer; it is per­
haps the only ground upon which they all meet. Every
Christian child is taught the Lord’s Prayer, and any Chris­
tian who prays at all says it almost every day. Its actual use
probably exceeds that of all other prayers put together.
Undoubtedly everyone who is seeking to follow along
the W ay that Jesus led, should make a point of using the
Lord’s Prayer, and using it intelligently, every day.
In order to do this, we should understand that the
Prayer is a carefully constructed organic whole. Many
people rattle through it like parrots, forgetful of the warn­
ing that Jesus gave us against vain repetitions, and, of
course, no one derives any profit from that sort of thing.
The Great Prayer is a compact formula for the devel­
opment of the soul. It is designed with the utmost care for
that specific purpose; so that those who use it regularly,
with understanding, will experience a real change of soul.
The only progress is this change, which is what the Bible
161
i6i
calls being bom again. It is the change of soul that matters.
The mere acquisition of fresh knowledge received intel­
lectually makes no change in the soul. The Lord’s Prayer
is especially designed to bring this change about, and
when it is regularly used it invariably does so.
The more one analyzes the Lord’s Prayer, the more
wonderful is its construction seen to be. It meets every­
one’s need just at his own level. It not only provides a rapid
spiritual development for those who are sufficiently
advanced to be ready, but in its superficial meaning it
supplies the more simple-minded and even the more
materially-minded people with just what they need at the
moment, if they use the Prayer sincerely.
This greatest of all prayers was designed with still an­
other purpose in view, quite as important as either of the
others. Jesus foresaw that, as the centuries went by, his
simple, primitive teaching would gradually become over-
lain by all sorts of external things which really have noth­
ing whatever to do with it. He foresaw that men who had
never known him, relying, quite sincerely, no doubt, upon
their own limited intellects, would build up theologies and
doctrinal systems, obscuring the direct simplicity of the
spiritual message, and actually erecting a wall between
God and man. He designed his Prayer in such a way that
it would pass safely through those ages without being
tampered with. He arranged it with consummate skill, so
that it could not be twisted or distorted, or adapted to any
man-made system; so that, in fact, it would carry the
whole Christ Message within it, and yet not have anything
on the surface to attract the attention of the restless, man­
aging type of person. So it has turned out that, through all
The Lord’s Prayer
the changes and chances of Christian history, this Prayer
has come through to us uncorrupted and unspoiled.
The first thing that we notice is that the Prayer naturally
falls into seven clauses. This is very characteristic of the
Oriental tradition. Seven symbolizes individual complete­
ness, the perfection of the individual soul, just as the num­
ber twelve in the same convention stands for corporate
completeness. In practical use, we often find an eighth
clause added—“Thine is the kingdom, the power, and the
glory” —
but this, though in itself an excellent affirmation,
is not really a part of the Prayer. The seven clauses are
put together with the utmost care, in perfect order and
sequence, and they contain everything that is necessary
for the nourishment of the soul. Let us consider the first
clause:
The Lord’s Prayer 163
OUR FATHER
T
h is simple statement in itself constitutes a definite
and complete system of theology. It fixes clearly and
distinctly the nature and character of God. It sums up
the Truth of Being. It tells all that man needs to know
about God, and about himself, and about his neighbor.
Anything that is added to this can only be by way of com­
mentary, and is more likely than not to complicate and
obscure the true meaning of the text. Oliver Wendell
Holmes said: “ M y religion is summed up in the first two
words of the Lord’s Prayer,” and most of us will find our­
selves in full agreement with him.
Notice the simple, clear-cut, definite statement—
“ Our
Father.” In this clause Jesus lays down once and for all
that the relationship between God and man is that of
father and child. This cuts out any possibility that the
Deity could be the relentless and cruel tyrant that is often
pictured by theology. Jesus says definitely that the rela­
tionship is that of parent and child; not an Oriental despot
dealing with grovelling slaves, but parent and child. Now
we all know perfectly well that men and women, however
short they may fall in other respects, nearly always do
the best they can for their children. Unfortunately, cruel
and wicked parents are to be found, but they are so excep­
tional as to make a paragraph for the newspapers. The
164
Our Father
vast majority of men and women are at their best in
dealing with their children. Speaking of the same truth
elsewhere, Jesus said: “ If you, who are so full of evil,
nevertheless do your best for your children, how much
more will God, who is altogether good, do for you” ; and
so he begins his Prayer by establishing the character
of God as that of the perfect Father dealing with His
children.
Note that this clause which fixes the nature of God, at
the same time fixes the nature of man, because if man is
the offspring of God, he must partake of the nature of
God, since the nature of the offspring is invariably similar
to that of the parent. It is a cosmic law that like begets
like. It is not possible that a rosebush should produce lilies,
or that a cow should give birth to a colt. The offspring is
and must be of the same nature as the parent; and so, since
God is Divine Spirit, man must essentially be Divine
Spirit too, whatever appearances may say to the contrary.
Let us pause here for a moment and try to realize what
a tremendous step forward we have taken in appreciating
the teaching of Jesus on this point. Do you not see that
at a single blow it swept away ninety-nine per cent of all
the old theology, with its avenging God, its chosen and
favored individuals, its eternal hell fire, and all the other
horrible paraphernalia of man’s diseased and terrified
imagination. God exists—and the Eternal, All-Powerful,
All-Present God is the loving Father of mankind.
If you would meditate upon this fact, until you had
some degree of understanding of what it really means,
most of your difficulties and physical ailments would dis­
appear, for they are rooted and grounded in fear. The
165
1 66
underlying cause of all trouble is fear. If only you could
realize to some extent that Omnipotent Wisdom is your
living, loving Father, most of your fears would go. If you
could realize it completely, every negative thing in your
life would vanish away, and you would demonstrate per­
fection in every phase. N ow you see the object that Jesus
had in mind when he placed this clause first.
Next we see that the Prayer says, not “M y Father,” but
“ Our Father,” and this indicates, beyond the possibility
of mistake, the truth of the brotherhood of man. It forces
upon our attention at the very beginning the fact that
all men are indeed brethren, the children of one Father;
and that “ there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither
bond nor free, there is neither chosen nor unchosen,” be­
cause all men are brethren. Here Jesus in making his sec­
ond point, ends all the tiresome nonsense about a “ chosen
race,” about the spiritual superiority of any one group of
human beings over any other group. He cuts away the
illusion that the members of any nation, or race, or terri­
tory, or group, or class, or color, are, in the sight of God,
superior to any other group. A belief in the superiority of
one’s own particular group, or “herd,” as the psychologists
call it, is an illusion to which mankind is very prone, but
in the teaching of Jesus it has no place. He teaches that the
thing that places a man is the spiritual condition of his own
individual soul, and that as long as he is upon the spiritual
path it makes no difference whatever to what group he
belongs or does not belong.
The final point is the implied command that we are to
pray not only for ourselves but for all mankind. Every
student of Truth should hold the thought of the Truth of
The Lord’s Prayer
Our Father
Being for the whole human race for at least a moment each
day, since none of us lives to himself nor dies to himself;
for indeed we are all truly—and in a much more literal
sense than people are aware—
limbs of one Body.
N ow we begin to see how very much more than ap­
pears on the surface is contained in those simple words
“ Our Father.” Simple—
one might almost say innocent­
as they look, Jesus has concealed within them a spiritual
explosive that will ultimately destroy every man-made
system that holds the human race in bondage.
1 6 7
WHICH ART IN HEAVEN
aving clearly established the Fatherhood of God
and the brotherhood of man, Jesus next goes on to
enlarge upon the nature of God, and to describe the fun­
damental facts of existence. Having shown that God
and man are parent and child, he goes on to delineate the
function of each in the grand scheme of things. He explains
that it is the nature of God to be in heaven, and of man to
be on earth, because God is Cause, and man is manifesta­
tion. Cause cannot be expression, and expression cannot
be cause, and we must be careful not to confuse the two
things. Here heaven stands for God or Cause, because in
religious phraseology heaven is the term for the Presence
of God. In metaphysics it is called the Absolute, because it
is the realm of Pure Unconditioned Being, of archetypal
ideas. The word “ earth” means manifestation, and man’s
function is to manifest or express God, or Cause. In other
words, God is the Infinite and Perfect Cause of all things;
but Cause has to be expressed, and God expresses Himself
by means of man. Man’s destiny is to express God in all
sorts of glorious and wonderful ways. Some of this ex­
pression we see as his surroundings; first his physical body,
which is really only the most intimate part of his embodi­
ment; then his home; his work; his recreation; in short, his
whole expression. T o express means to press outwards, or
168
Which Art in Heaven
bring into sight that which already exists implicitly. Every
feature of your life is really a manifestation or expression
of something in your soul.
Some of these points may seem at first to be a little ab­
stract; but since it is misunderstandings about the relation­
ship of God and man that lead to all our difficulties, it is
worth any amount of trouble correctly to understand that
relationship. Trying to have manifestation without Cause,
is atheism and materialism, and we know where they lead.
Trying to have Cause without manifestation leads man to
suppose himself to be a personal God, and this commonly
ends in megalomania and a kind of paralysis of expression.
The important thing to realize is that God is in heaven
and man on earth, and that each has his own role in the
scheme of things. Although they are One, they are not
one-and-the-same. Jesus establishes this point carefully
when he says, “ Our Father which art in heaven.”
16 9
HALLOWED BE THY NAME
I
n the Bible, as elsewhere, the “name” of anything
means the essential nature or character of that thing,
and so, when we are told what the name of God is, we
are told what His nature is, and His name or nature, Jesus
says, is “ hallowed.” N ow what does the word “hallowed”
mean? Well, if you trace the derivation back into Old
English, you will discover a most extraordinarily interest­
ing and significant fact. The word “hallowed” has the
same meaning as “ holy,” “ whole,” “wholesome,” and
“heal,” or “healed” ; so we see that the nature of God is not
merely worthy of our veneration, but is complete and
perfect—altogether good. Some very remarkable conse­
quences follow from this. W e have agreed that an effect
must be similar in its nature to its cause, and so, because
the nature of God is hallowed, everything that follows
from that Cause must be hallowed or perfect too. Just as a
rosebush cannot produce lilies, so God cannot cause or
send anything but perfect good. As the Bible says, “the
same fountain cannot send forth both sweet and bitter
water.” From this it follows that God cannot, as people
sometimes think, send sickness or trouble, or accidents—
much less death—
for these things are unlike His nature.
“Hallowed be thy name” means “T hy nature is altogether
good, and Thou art the author only of perfect good.” Of
170
purer eyes than to behold evil, and const not look on
iniquity.
If you think that God has sent any of your difficulties
to you, for no matter how good a reason, you are giving
power to your troubles, and this makes it very difficult to
get rid of them.
Hallowed Be Thy Name 171
THY KINGDOM COME
THY WILL BE DONE
IN EARTH AS IT IS IN HEAVEN
an being 7?Mrmfestation or expression of God has
JL v JL a limitless destiny before him. His work is to ex­
press, in concrete, definite form, the abstract ideas with
which God furnishes him, and in order to do this, he
must have creative power. If he did not have creative
power, he would be merely a machine through which
God worked—
an automaton. But man is not an automaton;
he is an individualized consciousness. God individualizes
Himself in an infinite number of distinct focal points of
consciousness, each one quite different; and therefore
each one is a distinct way of knowing the universe, each a
distinct experience. Notice carefully that the word “in­
dividual” means undivided. The consciousness of each one
is distinct from God and from all others, and yet none are
separated. How can this be? How can two things be one,
and yet not one and the same? The answer is that in mat­
ter, which is finite, they cannot; but in Spirit, which is
infinite, they can. With our present limited, three-dimen­
sional consciousness, we cannot see this; but intuitively we
can understand it through prayer. If God did not individ­
ualize Himself, there would be only one experience; as it
is, there are as many universes as there are individuals to
form them through thinking.
“ Thy kingdom come” means that it is our duty to be
ever occupied in helping to establish the Kingdom of God
on earth. That is to say, our work is to bring more and
more of God’s ideas into concrete manifestation upon
this plane. That is what we are here for. The old saying,
“ God has a plan for every man, and he has one for you,”
is quite correct. God has glorious and wonderful plans for
every one of us; He has planned a splendid career, full of
interest, life, and joy, for each, and if our lives are dull, or
restricted, or squalid, that is not His fault, but ours.
If only you will find out the thing God intends you to
do, and will do it, you will find that all doors will open to
you; all obstacles in your path will melt away; you will
be acclaimed a brilliant success; you will be most liberally
rewarded from the monetary point of view; and you will
be gloriously happy.
There is a true place in life for each one of us, upon the
attainment of which we shall be completely happy, and
perfectly secure. On the other hand, until we do find our
true place we never shall be either happy or secure, no
matter what other things we may have. Our true place
is the one place where we can bring the Kingdom of
God into manifestation, and truly say, “ Thy kingdom
cometh.”
We have seen that man too often chooses to use his
free will in a negative way. He allows himself to think
wrongly, selfishly, and this wrong thinking brings upon
him all his troubles. Instead of understanding that it is his
Thy Kingdom Come 173
essential nature to express God, to be ever about his
Father’s business, he tries to set up upon his own account.
All our troubles arise from just this folly. W e abuse our
free will, trying to work apart from God; and the very
natural result is all the sickness, poverty, sin, trouble, and
death that we find on the physical plane. W e must never
for a moment try to live for ourselves, or make plans or
arrangements without reference to God, or suppose that
we can be either happy or successful if we are seeking any
other end than to do His Will. Whatever our desire may
be, whether it be something concerning our daily work,
or our duty at home, our relations with our fellow man,
or private plans for the employment of our own time, if
we seek to serve self instead of God, we are ordering
trouble, disappointment, and unhappiness, notwithstand­
ing what the evidence to the contrary may seem to be.
Whereas, if we choose what, through prayer, we know to
be His Will, then we are insuring for ourselves ultimate
success, freedom, and joy, however much self-sacrifice
and self-discipline it may involve at the moment.
Our business is to bring our whole nature as fast as we
can into conformity with the W ill of God, by constant
prayer and unceasing, though unanxious, watching. “ Our
wills are ours to make them Thine.”
“In His W ill is our peace,” said Dante, and the Divine
Comedy is really a study in fundamental states of con­
sciousness, the Inferno representing the state of the soul
that is endeavoring to live without God, the Paradiso
representing the state of the soul that has achieved its con­
scious unity with the Divine Will, and the Purgatorio the
174 The Lord’s Prayer
Tby Kingdom Come 175
condition of the soul that is straggling to pass from the
one state to the other. It was this sublime conflict of the
soul which wrung from the heart of the great Augustine
the cry “Thou hast made us for Thyself, and our hearts
are restless until they repose in Thee.”
GIVE US THIS DAY
OUR DAILY BREAD
B
e c a u s e w e are the children of a loving Father, w e aiv
entitled to expect that God will provide ns fully with
everything we need. Children naturally and sponta­
neously look to their human parents to supply all their
wants, and in the same way we should look to God to
supply ours. If we do so, in faith and understanding, we
shall never look in vain.
It is the W ill of God that we should all lead healthy,
happy lives, full of joyous experience; that we should de­
velop freely and steadily, day by day and week by week,
as our pathways unfold more and more unto the perfect
day. To this end we require such things as food, clothing,
shelter, means of travel, books, and so on; above all, we
require freedom-, and in the Prayer all these things are
included under the heading of bread. Bread, that is to say,
means not merely food in general, but all things that man
requires for a healthy, happy, free, and harmonious life.
But in order to obtain these things, we have to claim
them, not necessarily in detail, but we have to claim them,
and, we have to recognize God and God alone as the
Source and fountainhead of all our good. Lack of any
kind is always traceable to the fact that we have been
2 7 6
seeking our supply from some secondary source, instead
of from God, Himself, the Author and Giver of life.
People think of their supply as coming from certain
investments, or from a business, or from an employer,
perhaps; whereas these are merely the channels through
which it comes, God being the Source. The number of
possible channels is infinite, the Source is One. The par­
ticular channel through which you are getting your sup­
ply is quite likely to change, because change is the Cos­
mic Law for manifestation. Stagnation is really death; but
as long as you realize that the Source of your supply is
the one unchangeable Spirit, all is well. The fading out
of one channel will be but the signal for the opening of
another. If, on the other hand, like most people, you re­
gard the particular channel as being the source, then
when that channel fails, as it is very likely to do, you are
left stranded, because you believe that the source has
dried up—
and for practical purposes, on the physical
plane, things are as we believe them to be.
A man, for instance, thinks of his employment as the
source of his income, and for some reason he loses it. His
employer goes out of business, or cuts down the staff, or
they have a falling out. Now, because he believes that
his position is the source of his income, the loss of the
position naturally means the loss of the income, and so
he has to start looking about for another job, and perhaps
has to look a long time, meanwhile finding himself with­
out apparent supply. If such a man had realized, through
regular daily Treatment, that God was his supply, and
his job only the particular channel through which it came,
then upon the closing of that channel, he would have
Our Daily Bread 177
found another, and probably a better one, opening im­
mediately. If his belief had been in God as his supply,
then since God cannot change or fail, or fade out, his
supply would have come from somewhere, and would
have formed its own channel in whatever was the easiest
way.
In precisely the same way the proprietor of a business
may find himself obliged to close down for some cause
outside of his control; or one whose income is dependent
upon stocks or bonds may suddenly find that source dried
up, owing to unexpected happenings on the stock mar­
ket, or to some catastrophe to a factory or a mine. If he
regards the business or the investment as his source of
supply, he will believe his source to have collapsed, and
will in consequence be left stranded; whereas, if his reli­
ance is upon God, he will be comparatively indifferent
to the channel and so that channel will be easily sup­
planted by a new one. In short, we have to train our­
selves to look to God, Cause, for all that we need, and
then the channel, which is entirely a secondary matter,
will take care of itself.
In its inner and most important meaning, our daily
bread signifies the realization of the Presence of God—
an
actual sense that God exists not merely in a nominal way,
but as the great reality; the sense that He is present with
us; and the feeling that because He is God, all good, all
powerful, all wise, and all loving, we have nothing to
fear; that we can rely upon Him to take every care of
us; that He will supply all that we need to have; teach us
all that we need to know; and guide our steps so that we
shall not make mistakes. This is Emanuel, or God with
178 The Lord’s Frayer
us; and remember that it absolutely means some degree
of actual realization, that is to say, some experience in
consciousness, and not just a theoretical recognition of
the fact; not simply talking about God, however beauti­
fully one may talk, or thinking about Him; but some
degree of actual experience. W e must begin by thinking
about God, but this should lead to the realization which
is the daily bread or manna. That is the gist of the whole
matter. Realization, which is experience, is the thing that
counts. It is realization which marks the progress of the
soul. It is realization which guarantees the demonstration.
It is realization, as distinct from mere theorizing and fine
words, which is the substance of things hoped for, the
evidence of things not seen. This is the Bread of Life, the
hidden manna, and when one has that, he has all things
in deed and in truth. Jesus several times refers to this
experience as bread because it is the nourishment of the
soul, just as physical food is the nourishment of the physi­
cal body. Supplied with this food, the soul grows and
waxes strong, gradually developing to adult stature. With­
out it, she, being deprived of her essential nourishment,
is naturally stunted and crippled.
The common mistake, of course, is to suppose that a
formal recognition of God is sufficient, or that talking
about Divine things, perhaps talking very poetically, is
the same as possessing them; but this is exactly on a par
with supposing that looking at a tray of food, or discuss­
ing the chemical composition of sundry foodstuffs, is the
same thing as actually eating a meal. It is this mistake
which is responsible for the fact that people sometimes
Our Daily Bread 179
i8o
pray for a thing for years without any tangible result.
If prayer is a force at all, it cannot be possible to pray
without something happening.
A realization cannot be obtained to order; it must come
spontaneously as the result of regular daily prayer. To
seek realization by will power is the surest way to miss it.
Pray regularly and quietly—
remember that in all mental
work, effort or strain defeats itself—then presently, per­
haps when you least expect it, like a thief in the night,
the realization will come. Meanwhile it is well to know
that all sorts of practical difficulties can be overcome by
sincere prayer, without any realization at all. Good
workers have said that they have had some of their best
demonstrations without any realization worth speaking
about; but while it is, of course, a wonderful boon to
surmount such particular difficulties, we do not achieve
the sense of security and well-being to which we are
entitled until we have experienced realization.
Another reason why the food or bread symbol for the
experience of the Presence of God is such a telling one,
is that the act of eating food is essentially a thing that
must be done for oneself. N o one can assimilate food for
another. One may hire servants to do all sorts of other
things for him; but there is one thing that one must posi­
tively do for himself, and that is to eat his own food. In
the same way, the realization of the Presence of God is
a thing that no one else can have for us. W e can and
should help one another in the overcoming of specific
difficulties—“Bear ye one another’s burdens” —
but the
realization (or making real) of the Presence of God, the
The Lord’s Prayer
181
“substance” and “ evidence,” can, in the nature of things,
be had only at first hand.
In speaking of the “ bread of life, Emanuel,” Jesus calls
it our daily bread. The reason for this is very fundamen­
tal—
our contact with God must be a living one. It is our
momentary attitude to God which governs our being.
“Behold now is the accepted time; behold now is the day
of salvation.” The most futile thing in the world is to
seek to live upon a past realization. The thing that means
spiritual fife to you is your realization of God here and
now.
Today’s realization, no matter how feeble and poor it
may seem, has a million times more power to help you
than the most vivid realization of yesterday. Be thankful
for yesterday’s experience, knowing that it is with you
forever in the change of consciousness which it brought
about, but do not lean upon it for a single moment for
the need of today. Divine Spirit is, and changes not with
the ebb and flow of human apprehension. The manna
in the desert is the Old Testament prototype of this. The
people wandering in the wilderness were told that they
would be supplied with manna from heaven every day,
each one always receiving abundant for his needs, but
they were on no account to try to save it up for the
morrow. They were on no account to endeavor to live
upon yesterday’s food, and when, notwithstanding the
rule, some of them did try to do so, the result was pesti­
lence or death.
So it is with us. When we seek to live upon yesterday’s
realization, we are actually seeking to live in the past, and
Our Daily Bread
1 82
to live in the past is death. The art of life is to live in the
present moment, and to make that moment as perfect as
we can by the realization that we are the instruments
and expression of God Himself. The best way to prepare
for tomorrow is to make today all that it should be.
The Lord's Prayer
FORGIVE US OUR TRESPASSES,
AS WE FORGIVE THEM THAT
TRESPASS AGAINST US
h i s clause is the turning point of the Prayer. It is the
strategic key to the whole Treatment. Let us notice
here that Jesus has so arranged this marvelous Prayer
that it covers the entire ground of the unfoldment of our
souls completely, and in the most concise and telling way.
It omits nothing that is essential for our salvation, and
yet, so compact is it that there is not a thought or a word
too much. Every idea fits into its place with perfect har­
mony and in perfect sequence. Anything more would be
redundance, anything less would be incompleteness, and
at this point it takes up the critical factor of forgiveness.
Having told us what God is, what man is, how the
universe works, how we are to do our own work—
the
salvation of humanity and of our own souls—
he then ex­
plains what our true nourishment or supply is, and the
way in which we can obtain it; and now he comes to
the forgiveness of sins.
The forgiveness of sins is the central problem of life.
Sin is a sense of separation from God, and is the major
tragedy of human experience. It is, of course, rooted in
selfishness. It is essentially an attempt to gain some sup­
posed good to which we are not entitled in justice. It is
183
a sense of isolated, self-regarding, personal existence,
whereas the Truth of Being is that all is One. Our true
selves are at one with God, undivided from Him, express­
ing His ideas, witnessing to His nature—
the dynamic
Thinking of that Mind. Because we are all one with the
great Whole of which we are spiritually a part, it follows
that we are one with all men. Just because in Him we
live and move and have our being, we are, in the absolute
sense, all essentially one.
Evil, sin, the fail of man, in fact, is essentially the at­
tempt to negative this Truth in our thoughts. W e try to
live apart from God. W e try to do without Him. W e act
as though we had life of our own; as separate minds; as
though we could have plans and purposes and interests
separate from His. All this, if it were true, would mean
that existence is not one and harmonious, but a chaos of
competition and strife. It would mean that we are quite
separate from our fellow man and could injure him, rob
him, or hurt him, or even destroy him, without any dam­
age to ourselves, and, in fact, that the more we took from
other people the more we should have for ourselves. It
would mean that the more we considered our own inter­
ests, and the more indifferent we were to the welfare of
others, the better off we should be. O f course it would
then follow naturally that it would pay others to treat
us in the same way, and that accordingly we might ex­
pect many of them to do so. N ow if this were true, it
would mean that the whole universe is only a jungle, and
that sooner or later it must destroy itself by its own in­
herent weakness and anarchy. But, of course, it is not
true, and therein lies the joy of life.
184 The Lord’s Prayer
Undoubtedly, many people do act as though they be­
lieved it to be true, and a great many more, who would
be dreadfully shocked if brought face to face with that
proposition in cold blood, have, nevertheless, a vague
feeling that such must be very much the way things are,
even though they, themselves, are personally above con­
sciously acting in accordance with such a notion. Now
this is the real basis of sin, of resentment, of condemna-
tion, of jealousy, of remorse, and all the evil brood that
walk that path.
This belief in independent and separate existence is the
arch sin, and now, before we can progress any further,
we have to take the knife to this evil thing and cut it out
once and for all. Jesus knew this, and with this definite
end in view he inserted at this critical point a carefully
prepared statement that would compass our end and his,
without the shadow of a possibility of miscarrying. He
inserted what is nothing less than a trip clause. He drafted
a declaration which would force us, without any conceiv­
able possibility of escape, evasion, mental reservation, or
subterfuge of any kind, to execute the great sacrament
of forgiveness in all its fullness and far-reaching power.
As we repeat the Great Prayer intelligently, consider­
ing and meaning what we say, we are suddenly, so to
speak, caught up off our feet and grasped as though in a
vise, so that we must face this problem—and there is no
escape. W e must positively and definitely extend for­
giveness to everyone to whom it is possible that we can
owe forgiveness, namely, to anyone who we think can
have injured us in any way. Jesus leaves no room for
any possible glossing of this fundamental thing. He has
Forgive Us Our Trespasses 185
constructed his Prayer with more skill than ever yet
lawyer displayed in the casting of a deed. He has so con­
trived it that once our attention has been drawn to this
matter, we are inevitably obliged either to forgive our
enemies in sincerity and truth, or never again to repeat
that prayer. It is safe to say that no one who reads this
booklet with understanding will ever again be able to use
the Lord’s Prayer unless and until he has forgiven. Should
you now attempt to repeat it without forgiving, it can
safely be predicted that you will not be able to finish it.
This great central clause will stick in your throat.
Notice that Jesus does not say, “ forgive me my tres­
passes and I will try to forgive others,” or “ I will see if
it can be done,” or “I will forgive generally, with certain
exceptions.” He obliges us to declare that we have actu­
ally forgiven, and forgiven all, and he makes our claim
to our or
umforgiveness to depend upon that. Who is there
who has grace enough to say his prayers at all, who does
not long for the forgiveness or cancellation of his own
mistakes and faults. Who would be so insane as to en­
deavor to seek the Kingdom of God without desiring to
be relieved of his own sense of guilt. N o one, we may
believe. And so we see that we are trapped in the inescap­
able position that we cannot demand our own release
before we have released our brother.
The forgiveness of others is the vestibule of Heaven,
and Jesus knew it, and has led us to the door. You must
forgive everyone who has ever hurt you if you want to
be forgiven yourself; that is the long and the short of it.
You have to get rid of all resentment and condemnation
of others, and, not least, of self-condemnation and re­
186 The Lord’s Prayer
morse. You have to forgive others, and having discontin­
ued your own mistakes, you have to accept the forgiveness
of God for them too, or you cannot make any progress.
You have to forgive yourself, but you cannot forgive
yourself sincerely until you have forgiven others first.
Having forgiven others, you must be prepared to forgive
yourself too, for to refuse to forgive oneself is only spir­
itual pride. “And by that sin fell the angels.” W e cannot
make this point too clear to ourselves; we have got to
forgive. There are few people in the world who have
not at some time or other been hurt, really hurt, by some­
one else; or been disappointed, or injured, or deceived,
or misled. Such things sink into the memory where they
usually cause inflamed and festering wounds, and there
is only one remedy—
they have to be plucked out and
thrown away. And the one and only way to do that is
by forgiveness.
Of course, nothing in all the world is easier than to
forgive people who have not hurt us very much. Nothing
is easier than to rise above the thought of a trifling loss.
Anybody will be willing to do this, but what the Law
of Being requires of us is that we forgive not only these
trifles, but the very things that are so hard to forgive that
at first it seems impossible to do it at all. The despairing
heart cries, “ It is too much to ask. That thing meant too
much to me. It is impossible. I cannot forgive it.” But
the Lord’s Prayer makes our own forgiveness from God,
which means our escape from guilt and limitation, de­
pendent upon just this very thing. There is no escape from
this, and so forgiveness there must be, no matter how
Forgive Us Our Trespasses 187
deeply we may have been injured, or how terribly we
have suffered. It must be done.
If your prayers are not being answered, search your
consciousness and see if there is not someone whom you
have yet to forgive. Find out if there is not some old
thing about which you are very resentful. Search and
see if you are not really holding a grudge (it may be
camouflaged in some self-righteous way) against some
individual, or some body of people, a nation, a race, a
social class, some religious movement of which you dis­
approve perhaps, a political party, or what-not. If you
are doing so, then you have an act of forgiveness to per­
form, and when this is done, you will probably make
your demonstration. If you cannot forgive at present, you
will have to wait for your demonstration until you can,
and you will have to postpone finishing your recital of
the Lord’s Prayer too, or involve yourself in the position
that you do not desire the forgiveness of God.
Setting others free means setting yourself free, because
resentment is really a form of attachment. It is a Cosmic
Truth that it takes two to make a prisoner; the prisoner—
and a gaoler. There is no such thing as being a prisoner
on one’s own account. Every prisoner must have a gaoler,
and the gaoler is as much a prisoner as his charge. When
you hold resentment against anyone, you are bound to
that person by a cosmic link, a real, though mental chain.
You are tied by a cosmic tie to the thing that you hate.
The one person perhaps in the whole world whom you
most dislike is the very one to whom you are attaching
yourself by a hook that is stronger than steel. Is this what
you wish? Is this the condition in which you desire to go
188 The Lord's Prayer
on living? Remember, you belong to the thing with which
you are linked in thought, and at some time or other, if
that tie endures, the object of your resentment will be
drawn again into your life, perhaps to work further havoc.
Do you think that you can afford this? Of course, no
one can afford such a thing; and so the way is clear. You
must cut all such ties, by a clear and spiritual act of for­
giveness. You must loose him and let him go. By forgive­
ness you set yourself free; you save your soul. And be­
cause the law of love works alike for one and all, you
help to save his soul too, making it just so much easier
for him to become what he ought to be.
But how, in the name of all that is wise and good, is
the magic act of forgiveness to be accomplished, when
we have been so deeply injured that, though we have
long wished with all our hearts that we could forgive,
we have nevertheless found it impossible; when we have
tried and tried to forgive, but have found the task be­
yond us.
The technique of forgiveness is simple enough, and
not very difficult to manage when you understand how.
The only thing that is essential is 'willingness to forgive.
Provided you desire to forgive the offender, the greater
part of the work is already done. People have always
made such a bogey of forgiveness because they have been
under the erroneous impression that to forgive a person
means that you have to compel yourself to like him. Hap­
pily this is by no means the case—
we are not called upon
to like anyone whom we do not find ourselves liking
spontaneously, and, indeed, it is quite impossible to like
people-to order. You can no more like to order than you
Forgive Us Our Trespasses 189
can hold the winds in your fist, and if you endeavor to
coerce yourself into doing so, you will finish by dislik­
ing or hating the offender more than ever. People used
to think that when someone had hurt them very much, it
was their duty, as good Christians, to pump up, as it were,
a feeling of liking for him; and since such a thing is
utterly impossible, they suffered a great deal of distress,
and ended, necessarily, with failure, and a resulting sense
of sinfulness. W e are not obliged to like anyone; but we
are under a binding obligation to love everyone, love, or
charity as the Bible calls it, meaning a vivid sense of im­
personal good will. This has nothing directly to do with
the feelings, though it is always followed, sooner or later,
by a wonderful feeling of peace and happiness.
The method of forgiving is this: Get by yourself and
become quiet. Repeat any prayer or treatment that ap­
peals to you, or read a chapter of the Bible. Then quietly
say, “I fully and freely forgive X (mentioning the name
of the offender); I loose him and let him go. I completely
forgive the whole business in question. As far as I am
concerned, it is finished forever. I cast the burden of
resentment upon the Christ within me. He is free now,
and I am free too. I wish him well in every phase of his
life. That incident is finished. The Christ Truth has set
us both free. I thank God.” Then get up and go about
your business. On no account repeat this act of forgive­
ness, because you have done it once and for all, and to
do it a second time would be tacitly to repudiate your
own work. Afterward, whenever the memory of the of­
fender or the offense happens to come into your mind,
bless the delinquent briefly and dismiss the thought. Do
190 The Lord's Prayer
this, however many times the thought may come back.
After a few days it will return less and less often, until
you forget it altogether. Then, perhaps after an interval,
shorter or longer, the old trouble may come back to
memory once more, but you will find that now all bitter­
ness and resentment have disappeared, and you are both
free with the perfect freedom of the children of God.
Your forgiveness is complete. You will experience a won­
derful joy in the realization of the demonstration.
Everybody should practise general forgiveness every
day as a matter of course. When you say your daily
prayers, issue a general amnesty, forgiving everyone who
may have injured you in any way, and on no account
particularize. Simply say: “I freely forgive everyone.”
Then in the course of the day, should the thought of
grievance or resentment come up, bless the offender
briefly and dismiss the thought.
The result of this policy will be that very soon you
will find yourself cleared of all resentment and condem­
nation, and the effect upon your happiness, your bodily
health, and your general life will be nothing less than
revolutionary.
Forgive Us Our Trespasses 191
LEAD US NOT INTO TEMPTATION
BUT DELIVER US FROM EVIL
his clause has probably caused more difficulty than
any other part of the Prayer. For many earnest peo­
ple it has been a veritable stumbling block. They feel,
and rightly, that God could not lead anyone into tempta­
tion or into evil in any circumstances, and so these words
do not ring true.
For this reason, a number of attempts have been made
to recast the wording. People have felt that Jesus could
not have said what he is represented to have said, and so
they look about for some phrasing which they think
would be more in accordance with the general tone of
his teaching. Heroic efforts have been made to wrest the
Greek original into something different. A ll this, how­
ever, is unnecessary. The Prayer in the form in which we
have it in English gives a perfectly correct sense of the
true inner meaning. Remember that the Lord’s Prayer
covers the whole of the spiritual life. Condensed though
the form is, it is nevertheless a complete manual for the
development of the soul, and Jesus knew only too well
the subtle perils and difficulties that can and do beset the
soul when once the preliminary stages of spiritual unfold-
ment have been passed. Because those who are yet at a
comparatively early stage of development do not experi­
192
ence such difficulties, they are apt to jump to the con­
clusion that this clause is unnecessary; but such is not
the case.
The facts are these—
the more you pray, the more time
you spend in meditation and spiritual treatment, the more
sensitive you become. And if you spend a great deal of
time working on your soul in the right way, you wifl
become very sensitive. This is excellent; but like every­
thing in the universe, it works both ways. The more sensi­
tive and spiritual you become, the more powerful and
effective are your prayers, you do better healing, and
you advance rapidly. But, for the same reason, you also
become susceptible to forms of temptation that simply
do not beset those at an earlier stage. You will also find
that for ordinary faults, even things that many men and
women of the world would consider to be trifling, you
will be sharply punished, and this is well, because it keeps
you up to the mark. The seemingly minor transgressions,
the “little foxes that spoil the vines,” would fritter away
our spiritual power if not promptly dealt with.
No one at this level will be tempted to pick a pocket,
or burgle a house; but this does not by any means imply
that one will not have difficulties, and because of their
subtlety, even greater difficulties to meet.
As we advance, new and powerful temptations await
us on the path, ever ready to hurl us down if we are not
watchful—
temptations to work for self-glory, and self-
aggrandizement instead of for God; for personal honors
and distinctions, even for material gain; temptations to
allow personal preferences to hold sway in our counsels
when it is a sacred duty to deal with all men in perfect
Lead Us Not into Temptation 193
impartiality. Above and beyond all other sins the deadly
sin of spiritual pride, truly “the last infirmity of noble
mind,” lurks on this road. Many fine souls who have tri­
umphantly surmounted all other testings have lapsed into
a condition of superiority and self-righteousness that has
fallen like a curtain of steel between them and God. Great
knowledge brings great responsibility. Great responsibil­
ity betrayed brings terrible punishment in its train. No­
blesse oblige is preeminently true in spiritual things. One’s
knowledge of the Truth, however little it may be, is a
sacred trust for humanity that must not be violated.
While we should never make the mistake of casting our
pearls before swine, nor urge the Truth in quarters where
it is not welcome, yet we must do all that we wisely can
to spread the true knowledge of God among mankind,
that not one of “these little ones” may go hungry through
our selfishness or our neglect. “Feed my lambs, feed my
sheep.”
The old occult writers were so vividly sensible of these
dangers that, with their instinct for dramatization, they
spoke of the soul as being challenged by various tests as
it traversed the upward road. It was as though the trav­
eller were halted at various gates or turnpike bars, and
tested by some ordeal to determine whether he were ready
to advance any further. If he succeeded in passing the
test, they said, he was allowed to continue upon his way
with the blessing of the challenger. If, however, he failed
to survive the ordeal, he was forbidden to proceed.
Now, some less experienced souls, eager for rapid ad­
vancement, have rashly desired to be subjected immedi­
ately to all kinds of tests, and have even looked about,
194 The Lord's Prayer
seeking for difficulties to overcome; as though one’s own
personality did not already present quite enough mate­
rial for any one man or woman to deal with. Forgetting
the lesson of our Lord’s own ordeal in the wilderness,
forgetting the injunction “Thou shalt not tempt the Lord
thy God,” they have virtually done this very thing, with
sad results. And so Jesus has inserted this clause, in which
we pray that we may not have to meet anything that is
too much for us at the present level of our understanding.
And, if we are wise, and work daily, as we should, for
wisdom, understanding, purity, and the guidance of the
Holy Spirit, we never shall find ourselves in any diffi­
culty for which we have not the understanding necessary
to clear ourselves. Nothing shall by any means hurt you.
Behold I am with you alway.
Lead Us Not into Temptation 195
THINE IS THE KINGDOM AND
THE POWER AND THE GLORY
FOR EVER AND EVER
h is is a w onderful gnom ic saying sum m ing up the
essential truth of the Omnipresence and the Allness
of God. It means that God is indeed All in All, the
doer, the doing, and the deed, and one can say also the
spectator. The Kingdom in this sense means all creation,
on every plane, for that is the Presence of God—God as
manifestation or expression.
The Power, of course, is the Power of God. W e know
that God is the only power, and so, when we work, as
when we pray, it is really God doing it by means of us.
Just as the pianist produces his music by means of, or
through his fingers, so may mankind be thought of as the
fingers of God. His is the Power. If, when you are pray­
ing, you hold the thought that it is really God who is
working through you, your prayers will gain immeas­
urably in efficiency. Say, “ God is inspiring me.” If, when
you have any ordinary thing to do, you hold the thought,
“ Divine Intelligence is working through me now,” you
will perform the most difficult tasks with astonishing
success.
The wondrous change that comes over us as we grad­
ually realize what the Omnipresence of God really means,
transfigures every phase of our lives, turning sorrow into
joy, age into youth, and dullness into light and life. This
is the glory—
and the glory which comes to us is, of course,
God’s too. And the bliss we know in that experience is
still God Himself, who is knowing that bliss through us.
Thine Is the Kingdom 197
I
n recent years, the Lord’s Prayer has often been rewrit­
ten in the affirmative form. In this style, for instance,
the clause “ T hy kingdom come, thy will be done,” be­
comes, “T hy kingdom is come, thy wall is being done.”
All such paraphrases are interesting and suggestive, but
their importance is not vital. The affirmative form of
prayer should be used for all healing work, but it is only
one form of prayer. Jesus used the invocatory form very
often, though not always, and the frequent use of this
form is essential to the growth of the soul. It is not to be
confused with supplicatory prayer, in which the subject
begs and whines to God as a slave pleading with his mas­
ter. That is always wrong. The highest of all forms of
prayer is true contemplation, in which the thought and
the thinker become one. This is the Unity of the mystic,
but it is rarely experienced in the earlier stages. Pray in
whatever way you find easiest; for the easiest way is the
best.
Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden
and I will give you rest.
# # # #
The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I
fear? The Lord is the strength of my life; of whom shall
I be afraid?
Though an host should encamp against me, my heart
shall not fear: though war should rise against me, in this
will I be confident.
# # # #
When thou passest through the waters, I will be with
thee; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee:
when thou walkest through fire, thou shalt not be burned;
neither shall the flame kindle upon thee.
# # # #
As long as he sought the Lord, God made him to
prosper.
199
